

AITKEU'S ale.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE EEST IN THE Hl£E T.
HARRISON & ATTWOOJj, 251 Geovge-st...
“DICKENS’ ” WHISKY.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
ANI> STPPMEM TO THE PKISCIPAI CLUBS IS SYDNEY.
Sydney, Sole Agents for Mew South Wales.
h
:L£a-r3set Street, S^STIDILTIE’Sr.
UNEJYALLED accommodation,
h
i
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOB—
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded hiifhest honors at
Phila., 1870 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 AmstGrd’m 1883
New . Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on eeerp bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid foruj and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can lie used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers,
B F BKOWN £ CO.,
Boston, T T .S.A., M’f’gs.
m
aapsbiw-w
SI SATIN
iSi ; i
n\
[Hi I? xabie & ;
Ssfe
htSSSS?*
A POSITIVE CURE.
DR. BOH ANX AN'S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N'.S.W.
rtD&SDSoA
R S
p o
r'H»;
.'.'■;'‘A
rWi
ffl®
OTnsrass ic
■27
lie
Oxford Hotel, King Streets, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with BRASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Paris House
restaurant francais.
TABLE D'HOTE BARISIENNE, 2s. 6d,
(Wine’ Included).
Fill VATIc ROOMS, Js,
‘ ; ; ’
Ft'ing in close proximity to the loading places
of aihii-c!i.< jn. families intending tu spend the
evening at the theatre eautiot do better than to
order their dinner here.
I rivate Rooms for Dinners & Suppers.
•Suppers after the Tlu-atre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS kok PARTIES ui- to PORTT,
Service aia carte Daily from 8 a.in. till 11 v.m.
op EH OM SUNDAYS.
Burners from, -■>■. 6d. upwardtr.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes' Notice.
J. &
POINTS OF SUPERIORITY.
1. Steel drag bar, in plane of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. —Side draught obviated by draught x’od being
adjustable on drag bar,
3. —All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheeb one pinion.
4. Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter. ,
5. Machine will star.t on dead centre without back-' -
ing horses in heaviest crops.
Prizes "'Won* 1890 }
Qnennbeyari, First,
Jerilderio „
Vi ret.
Iliu
HOWARD STEEL ORIENT MOWER.
HOWARD’S OBIEM-T BAKES.
Howard’s Auglo A.merican flakes.
2801
iii
{ Prizes. Won, 1890
PITT STREET.
ĥ
Acknowledged
The Best ■
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 570,J
[Saturday, January 17, 1891,


TO
til
MU
1
MS?
i
H
os
DlXSOi
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 lbs
AmfrW d r n % (° v er 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. mor
aU th * rM ‘ ° f Ne " s »“‘!
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the larges
sale of any in Australia are—
sm
o
o
33
O
X
o
V
yov\
SIRROCER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Pibssb,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c. Wji, Johnstone
Fh.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
I>». RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS.
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Is a pure,”' frsgrant.^fnbn^gritty»tooth 7 powder,-: an ft
'warranted free froin acids or other ingredients which
destroy the enamel; it whitens the teeth, prevents and
arrests ’ decay,' strengthens, the gums.' and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath.
a soothing, healing and emollient milk for the face
and hands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the
skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles, ton, ounburu,
roughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cutaneous
jcroptions," &o., Boothes and heals prickly heat, stings
[of insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pro-
duces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion;
It is .warranted harmless, and free from any lead or
poisonous ingredients.'
ROWLAND'S EUR0f3IA,a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com-
plexion; iu three tints—white, cream, and rose Ask
' any_chemist,or i articles
rThe extraordinary repufa'tion of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil; Kalydorand Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
(offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap:
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons; of 20,
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to, buy noMagassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except.those made by them, and which bear their
name in red ink on the wrappers. ,
a
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
ħ
whiskv
h
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agent JAMES MOIR &CO., 68MargateSydney
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifier the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Gold Medals.
Superior to all Others!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
-x x— ——
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
• X X
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s, 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
h
JpLEMING’S
RELIABLE
Buggies, Phaetons,
AND
Carriages,
XIEsT ZEI’V'IEIR.Yr STYLE,
Waggons, Waggonettes, Backboards,
and Harness,
To suit all requirements.
Machinery of all Kinds-
WILLIAM FLEMING,
22 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AND AT
No. 2 St. James’ Buildings, Melbourne
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS] Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £BOO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
363 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY*
Have always in stock for sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only.
rue
AOVAI.
EQgNSURGn
. CASttC
. CAsrtc
Segctttßfsee ** •
. a a a ;■,
:y f ojuo
SCOTCHWWSRf
&Ajhojrtu4«u
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Class China and
EARTHENWARE,
WINES, BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S
"Pelican” Stout.
* The Royal Edinburgh Castle” old Scotch Whiskies.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
for Christmas Presents and Hew Tear Gifts
SEND. TO OR CALI, AT
FRED C. PASSAU'S,
Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician,
494 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. the Markets),
Who has just opened out his Christmas Stock of Gold and
Silver Watches, superior Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Electro-plated Ware, Spectacles, Opera and Field Glasses.
Brazilian Pebble Spectacles, with case, 4s. 6d. per pair.
Silver Hunting Patent Lever Watches from £3 Bs. to £7.
Jewellery Made to Order and Promptly Repaired.
Complete Price List sent Post Free on- Application.
Goods forwarded by Post Free of Charge.
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
„ WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
/ —BV~
Consulting 11. J. POULTON Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. CmsuWpersoncdly or hy letter.
h
'0
>-
\!/
D
vl/
/r s
Nl
7 <SV';\gi" r '
Offices
h
CC j&. GOLDEN SH-A-HSTT"ST
h Australian Sketches in' Prose and Terse,
By «BXXIJiX^B , y3OW ,, "Writers
Size, Demy Octavo-with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is.
.33
3d.




SUPPLEMENT TO “THE BULLETIN.”] [SYDNEY, JANUARY, 17, 1891.
GOVERNOR “JARSEY.”
With acknowledgments to VANITY FAIR (London).


Medical.
DB4SPEER
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 1(5
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
Nervous Debility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL ” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &<•., 55., or 21s. for
live boxes,
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55,, or 21s. tor live
boxes.
_3.—“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
h
h
h
t#
h
SUFFERING FROM
BRAIN & NERVE EXHAUSTION.
Any man who in his youth has trifled away his vigour
of body, mind, and manhood, should consult PRO-
FESSOR CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is still
treating with the greatest skill and succegr all Private.
Nervous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S great success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts: -Ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starting aright. 2nd, The Medicines and Electric
Appliances used are exactly adapted to suit the case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
<or injury.
1 SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, die,, can
recover the same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in rerson or by letter, which is free),
Professor CARL STINEWAY, who has restored
thousands of sufferers to vigoicus manhood
after all other treatment had tailed. It makes
no difference what you have taken, or who has
failed to cure you. Cases that I accept for treat-
ment are quickly and permanently cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION: —Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the pow ciof will and action? Are
you subject to loss of memory ; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains ? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits? Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single
consultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed
on the way to health strength, and vigour?
VARICOCEXE easily and
quickly cured toy my only
Genuine Electric Appliance,
toy Royal Eetters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forward-
ing a full description of their case and
JBI, receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though ail others have failed
in your case. / will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure in all cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FREE, Medicines
sent secure from observation to any part of
Australasia.
“ From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
and entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion, Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
man ; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all cases un-
dertaken, and no promises made that age, in-
tegrity, and long experience do not justify.
My HYGIO-ELECTRIC APPLIANCES (by
Royal Letters patent) are the only genuine
Beits and Trusses in Australia.
Address
Professor CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Something Wew.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, eomprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
Wanted. Samples free. Address-
Austral Card and Novelty €o„
14 Huntbr Street, SYDNEY.
COIEMANt&SOHS
Eucalypte. Oil
h
Victory Ointment-
THE TREE. OF LIFE,
m o?sSiSfc2g
33 tar 3-3 L o ex arx o =3 s,
The Great American Athlete,
< 'T HEl* of INFLFENZA by using COLEMANB a: SONS
EI’CALYPTE EXTRACT.
IM»VT ISE UECKIt EI».
If vou want tlie best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colkmane & Sons' EucaTapte Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. His the only known cure for
i Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
; Gravel and Kidney complaints it lias no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
|by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
I Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
I should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucahpte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Fills pearls' of
; great price. For external use try Colkmaxb and
Sons Special 01. Sole Manufactory, Cootauumdra
h
TANSY TILLS me better than
•> eol, TenTiyroyal, or Ergot.- Cures
ol»stn:ctio:.a from whatever cause.
Never fails, Ko Tills or
like them. Particulars free,
W. PARKER. P.O. Box !00, Melbourne.
GOL D E N ‘SITA X T Y~
PRICE ; ONE SH I ELING;
n Handsome Cloth Binding, 2s 6d, post paid 3
Book of 3NTature.
■
an
tm
mm
: I
Boole of KTatizre.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated Mariape
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs cf life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of "conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Hyrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
i /-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/0. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Pesant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should he, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/0. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/0.
The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/0.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” Cd.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr., F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. H. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 10 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
1
'N
v:
Co
7!
> Sr
Cnnn
OSiIDIIIEf
;iw
a «iiniiii l]g
%
UD i
V.
S'
St
■ ~
fr\
r
'V
SYDNEY.
.AGENTS .
in New South Wales
TRIUMPH
ofThe Good $ iwr over Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TBY IT.
h
h
w
mm
] Dr. M. PEHRIT,
M.R.0.5., L.S.A , &c.,
SPECIALIST for the Treatment of Nervous
Complaints, Diabetes, Tumors, &c.
Registered by the Medical Bo rI of JV.S. W. I, le House Sr-
geofi t > the Great Northern Hospital L nd di
I am awave that I am not strictlv following the paths
Of professional etiquette by advertising myself as a
Specialist for the ti eatm-nt of this class'of. disease, bnt.
unfortunately for the suffering public in Australia, the
apathy shown t by Qualified Men in the treatment of
Chronic ami Nervous Complaints lias induced men of the
lowest grade of intellect (whose only qualifications are
unlimited assurance) to spring up, and by specious
advertisements and false promises trap the unwary.
It is very evident that sufferers from these diseases
have been scandalously treated by these unqualified
persons The evidence taken at the Medical Enquiry
held in Sydney (published in the Daily Telegraph, Nov.
6th. 7th and Sth. 1 SO*>) plainly shows the disgraceful
manner in which patients are duped. Not only are
they robbed of their money, but what is of infinitely
greater importance, their health is injured also. It is
therefore lime flint Legally Qualified Men entered the
field to fight these pests of society with their own
weapons, viz., Advertising.
It is utterly impossible for those who are suffering
from the*e diseases, who are scattered over all parts of
Australasia, to ascertain which Qualified Practitioner
makes these diseases his speciality unless he advertises.
I consider, therefore, that by advertising I not only
strike a blow at the Quackery which now exists, but J also add
to the usefulness of my profession and in no way lessen my
personal dignity.
Iffy Qualifications I Invite the fullest Investigation into. For some considerable time I was House Surgeon to the
Great Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of observin j the many phases of the Nervous and
gexua' System,and to become acquainted with the most scientific methods of effecting their cure. #
My sole attention is given to the treatment of these diseases, and when a person consults me he is informed at the
commencement whether I can effect his cure or not. The patient is not deluded with false and specious promises, and
if I undertake the case
I Absolutely Guarantee a Complete and Permanent Cure.
My great success in the treatment of those diseases enables me to give this guarantee without fear.
KLlliatliV itlliX, Iff I UIITj E-AGE i> jiki, MW MEW
Suffering from Impaired Vitality should send for my Work on Diseases of the Reproductive Organs, which, in addition to explaining
my method of treatment, contains many useful hints as to Self Management, the observance of which is of great use to all, and in many
instances is sufficient to check the progress of di-ease. This Rook will be forwarded Free on application.
Patients residing at n distance can be treated at their own homes without interruption to their business. Medicines paclced and sent
free from observation to all parts of Australasia.
Yarloeele quickly and permanently cured without operation. Diabetes and Tumors treated by a totally new method of Cutaneous
Medication. Consultation Hours—From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m, daily (except Sundays ); and from 7to 9 p.m.on Tuesday and Saturday
evenings. Consultation {either by letter or in person ) Free.
Address all Communications
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c., Elmley House, 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney, H.S.W.
N B.—l would advise all persons before cons'-.’ specialists to ascertain if thev are really Duly Qualified Practi-
tioners, or only advertising frauds.
MENTION THIS PAfKB.
Medical.
Dr. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABOHAIORY ROOMS being completed, Ur.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
MU'* I
H
! WiW
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe, lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
Ho has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly som'ces and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment, liis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenoe. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
DISEASES.
YOUNG MEN
BOOK.
SEND
RICHARDS,
CONSULTATION FREE.


T. ROBINSON «SC CO
m
m
m
Mite
W^mS9.
mm
Machinery and’lmplement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. 11 . and Co.’s Improved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid.
T. E. and Co.’s HAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. R, AND Co.’s New DRAIN FORMERS.
T. R. and Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OVER BOX WOOL-
PRESS—the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. E. and Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESSES.
T. R, and Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T, R. AND Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
AEUDRESS :
407 & 409 Kllzabetu street, MELBOURNE.
Purest ana Cheapest
Offices and Works t
Superior Cooling Chambers for Butchers
and Others.
Ice.
10
CO
Regent Street,
SYDNK TT.
Ice Carefully Packed and sent to any part of the Colony.
Daily Deliveries in City and Sukmrtoa.
F. LASSETTER & GO.
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY,
VISIT
oxm SHOWROOMS,
CmOBCBT.-SPLENDID VALUE.
WARSOP
AND
SONS.
SPRIN5
HANDLE
Best Quality.
Price,
22/6 each.
Youths’ Leg Guards,
6/6 pair.
P.S. Tanned Kid ditto,
good value, 10/- pair.
Superior ditto, 15/6 and
13/6 pair.
Prices—2/6, 6/9, 7/6.
BARTLETT’S.
SPRING^
HANDLE
Repercmsive,
22/6 each.
Selected All-
Cane, 17/6 each.
All-Cane Bats,
10/- & 12/6 each.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. „i£B
Steam Tarred Cricket Nets, full size, with Side Winers and Poles,
hegs and Runners complete ; size of net, 7ft. high, 42ft. long.
Price 45/-
SINGLE RACQUET
PRESSES,
2s 6d each.
MAHOGANY FOR
FOUR,
12s (id each.
A. L L REPAIRS
Executed on the
Premises.
Racquets Re-Strung-.
Ditto Repaired.
ALL ORDERS
receive
Careful and Prompt
Attention.
h
THE
BEST AND CHEAPEST
HOUSE in the WOULD
FOR ALL
Fencing Wire,
Galvanized lon,
&.0., &c.
Write for Particulars.
CLOSE SET, Barbs only Sin. apart.
THE NEW “SCRUTCH ” BARB WIRE.
,
This is the latest thing in Barb Wire, ia specially, well made,
12 gauge, 4 point close set. This is the right thing, and Lassetters
are the sole agents.
Use Nothing 1 but “ SCRUTCH.” It -will serve you well.
■: i
U.iUJ
or.ro
XD
Him
O'
J JL
a
3_«
• 7j
cm,'
ah
e±±±±jH
3
UJ
-CP
TENNIS RACQUETS.
PORTNAM’S Superior. Price, 10/each
PORTNAM’S Champion. Price, 15/ each
H. AYRES’ Champion
Price, 22/6 each
EORTNAM’S Improved Champion.
Price, 16/6 each
¥. H. AYRES’ Cedar-handle Superior.
Price, 19/ each
P. H. AYRES’ Central Strung.
Price, 27/6 each
CAVENDISH Lawn Tennis Poles, with nickel-plated fittings, patent steam-tarred
waterproof net, bound with canvas, copper wire rope, iron pins, mallet, and
Hope s A et Adjuster. Price, 82/6 per set
'[ilendid display of GLASS, CHINA and EARTHENWARE.
~ &<r
ss»
THE
“ WOODLANDS ”
DINNER SET,
a Service consisting of
12 Dinner Plates
12 Pudding Plates
12 Cheese Plates
5 Dishes, in sizes
2 Vegetable Dishes
1 Sauce Tureen
1 Sauce Boat
1 Pie Dish
Price, 30s,
This Pattern can now be obtained in
DARK BLUE at same price.
FREEHOLD INVESTMENT amd DEPOSIT BANE,
173 Pitt Street, S'STIDIKriES'Sr
(Nearly opposite Australian Star Office).
Fixed Deposits received in any sum, and interest payable quarterly, as under, viz.:—
12 months 9 percent."
9 months B.]- per cent.
(i months 8 per cent.
3 months 6 per cent.
Depositors for 2 and 3 years receive 10 per cent., and in addition a bonus of 1 per cent, per annum. Remittances
receivable by cheque and deposit receipt forwarded. Promissory Notes Discounted on deposit deeds w ithout
delay. Prompt Advances made on Land and Freehold Property, in town or country. All correspondence
immediately replied to. ' EDVVD. A. MORGAN, Secretary.
WENTWORTH
NOTE
MJU
m j®.
wSr-
Mmi\ Mel,
CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
For a Resi denti al Hotel
the site_ is unequalled,
being quiet, healthy, and
central, opposite public
reserve, and within easy
walking distance of the
G.P.0., Public Offices,
Banks, Theatres and
Trams.
The accommodation and
attendance are excellent.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. Hayes,
Proprietress.
Ji BRIDGED PROSPECTUS FOR NEW ISSUE OF SHAPES.
The (Commercial Agency, Trading and Ranking 4Company, Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1874),
Heart Office: »8« GEORGE STREET (near Hunter-street), SVItVEV.
Newcastle l( ranch: 50 Hauler Street.
I)a ' e Mp. r chan't' P q " W.L. A. 'Sydney; M. SICHEL, Esq., 'Merchant. Sydney; A. M. MARKS, Is,, ,
Meicliant, Pitt-street, Sydney : A. ALLEN, Esq., Strpthfield ; E. O’FABRELL, Esc,. (Henfrey and Co.) Caull-
iea o h-stieet, Sydney. General Manager: Mr. JOHN IT. NATHAN. Secretary: N. M, WEBB.
CAPITAL (Authorised)
100,000 Shares of ,£5 each.
£500,000.
New Issue, 25,000 Shares.
m Sh! i r< i 011 application and ss. per Share on allotment. Future calls not to exceed 2a. Od
pay me n Uifad vanemhe allowed lOpercent" 6 App,lCiWt * e,ectiD » t 0 Bubscribe for will upon
ni£!l e i V ''' K B .<l oVU, 1 ess of the Company and the demand for money at short dates has decided the
S I ,r kC •'V NE V ISSI.E OF SHAKES. The gross profits of the Company for the present year averai’c
• J P ei A IS satisfactory result being- mainly clue to income derived from commission and it
H ° ' o°r y anticipated that the various departments and the business as a whole will from the nature of operations
from Commission, Exchange, Brokerage and Agents’ Charges continue to show icsuUs
;*, r Shaieholdeis. In new o the profitable interchange of business between the two colonies, it has been
«mn d / the °) )er a tlo ns of the Company to Victoria. With this object a MELBOURNE BRANCH OFFICE
\mll be opened as soon necessary arrangements are completed.
vv T AVOID THE LOCKING-UP OF THE FUNDS OF THE COMPANY
short’ OAF t i} CHRONIC OVERDRAFTS, ADVANCES BEING PRINCIPALLY AT
T 0 POUR MONTHS > TIIUS ensuring the frequent checking
flip placing this issue of Shares on the market, submit with every confidence, judging from
nrofiKht^invebmpnt S rnn^ le 'i th f Company, that it is equal to any now before the public as a sale and
Secretary aM he Head 'm’e of the Shareholders is limited. Application for Shares to be addressed to the
Secietaiy, at the Head Office of the Company. Cheques and P.O. Orders to be crossed to the Company.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
i’o the Directors of THE COMMERCIAL AGENCY, TRADING and BANKING COMPANY, Limited, Sydney.
Gentlejie^,—Herewith please find enclosed the sum of £ , being deposit of two shillings and
sixpence (2s. od.) per Share on 'Shares in the Commercial Agency, Trading and Banking Compam I
request you to allot me that or any less number of shares, subject to the Company’s registered Memorandum and
Articles of Association, to which I hereby subscribe, and request my name to be attached thereto ; and I agree to
munher of to nie^ 616011 ’ and m|Uest lny nanle bein 8' placed upon the Register of Members for the
Name in full
Address
f Jat;e Profession (if any)
If application for Paid-up Shaijes, insert words “ paid-up.”] [PROSP ECTUS OX A PPL WAT 10 V


The Bulletin
V©l. 11—No. 570.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1891.
Price, 6d.
THE SOCIAL TUMOUR.
DR. BOOTH: “Oh, yes, Mr. Bull, I can remove it without much inconvenience to you. Mind you. I don’t promise that it won’t grow again and do for you in
the long run: but—oh, yes, I can remove it.”
h


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £ lO 0
Half-yearly ... 012 6
Quarterly ... 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
.Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor ■will carefully read and acknowledge in tae
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
'• The Bulletin" will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But ice
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
vie are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of s uch MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
fur a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17, 1891.
Dies Irae.
Capital, having learnt from Labour how
to fight, has, since its great and sensational
defeat by the London Dock Labourers, been
winning in every encounter. Upon the
Trade Unionists of Australia, whose assist-
ance decided the course of events in the
Dockers’ struggle, Capital has, with the
scarcely disguised help of the Governments
of Australasia, inflicted a great revenge.
Here, where Unionism has been supposed to
be more powerful than, perhaps, in any
other part of the globe, the Unions have
been decisively defeated, and the victors not
merely assume the imposing air of con-
querors who can dictate terms, but appear
determined to follow up their advantage and
attack every citadel of Unionism which did
not happen to be involved in the operations
of the main campaign. There is no possi-
bility of mistaking the significance of the
dismissal from the public service of Mr.
Henry Hoyle, President of the New South
Wales Railway and Tramway Association.
The blow is aimed at the Association.
That body is essentially a Trades Union. It
is keenly sympathetic with the Trades and
Labour organisation outside the circle of
State employment. During the recent great
strike it was always a possible event that
the railway men would fold their arms and
decline to work if the interests of Labour
would be benefited by such a sacrifice on their
part. Now, the Railway Commissioners
apparently imagine their time has come, and
that, by dismissing the president, they will
shat er the organisation. They may fairly be
accounted with having calculated that only
a very bold and very rash man will
accept election to a position which exposes
its occupant to the active hostility of an om-
nipotent and irresponsible Board of Commis-
missioners—one of whose members enrolled
himself, during the recent strike, as a
special-constable. If by this act of intimi-
dation the association can be deprived of a
head, its organisation will be injured in a
vital part, and its dissolution may be not
beyond achievement.
* # #
This is but one instance of the fashion in
which Capital, through its agents and tools,
is improving the shining hour. The Pastoral
Union, now federated with the shipping in-
terests, and both having entered into rela-
tions with the powerful combinations of
capitalists in Great Britain, has assumed a
right to issue its ukase as to the terms and
conditions which are to be imposed upon
shearers and rouseabouts. The Australian
maritime capitalists, in turn, are dictating
their mandates to wharf-labourers and sea-
men In each instance the special feature is
a peremptory refusal to recognise the exist-
ence of Trades Unions. In Great Britain
m identical course of proceeding is being
carried into effect. The Scotch railway
hands who have struck with the object
of securing the wretched concession of
a ten hours’ working day, are being
resolutely combated and vindictively dealt
with whenever they are worsted. In every
instance the capitalistic class is in high
feather. They fancy that, by adopting the
tactics of Labour, they have secured an inde-
feasible and enduring advantage. Hitherto
Labour, although its union has been miser-
ably partial and incomplete, has at least been
much more united than Capital. To-day the
conditions are reversed. Capital is more
efficiently organised than Labour. The
defects in the cohesiveness of the latter are
paralysing its powers of resistance to attack.
Labour in Great Britain is being defeated by
Labour, as was the case in Australia.
# * *
Capital has not shut its eyes to the possible
contingency that Britons, recognising the
real effect of this imperfection of unity, may
refuse to be much longer made use of to
, enslave themselves. That all classes of
, British toilers may make common cause
| comes quite within the scope of the calcula-
tions of Capital. It is only the other day
that Mr. Thomas Laws, general secretary to
the Shipowners’ Federation of Great Britain,
boldly stated the views of his side. “ We
are firmly determined,” said Mr. Laws,
when interviewed with respect to an exten-
sive engagement of German seamen for
British ships, “to resist dictation and
tyranny ; and, if it is necessary, ship-
owners will not only get labour from
Germany and other Continental countries,
but from India, or, if it comes to
that, from China.” This is a declaration
sufficient to cause the ghost of Oliver Crom-
well to shriek, Banshee fashion. Old
Noll’s navigation laws, which laid the
foundation of Britain’s maritime supremacy,
and which were in force till the capitalist class
gotthe upper hand in England, prescribed that
the master and three-fourths of the mariners
of every British ship were to be Britons. From
the inception of these laws up to the time
when they were repealed, in 1849, in only
one war, with the exception of the Dutch
war in the time of Charles 11., when cor-
ruption had temporarily sapped the vigour of
the navy, had the British navy ever been
worsted. In five years of the reign of
George ll—from 1755 to 1760 —the English
took 43 French ships of war of 1706 guns,
and destroyed 41 more of 1730 guns, whereas
the French took but five British men-of-war
of 144 guns, and destroyed only four more,
aggregating 72 guns. This was a mere pre-
lude to the Nelson period, the figures with
respect to which we have not at hand, but
which must present a contrast at least as
striking. But it was otherwise when, during
the reign of George IV., Great Britain
attempted to uphold against the United
States of America, her supremacy on the
ocean. During that war the number of
British ships and vessels of war in commis-
sion was 534, of which 72 were ships of the
line. There were 75,000 British seamen
afloat in these ships. The Americans had 30
ships and vessels of war, not one being a ship
of the line. They had 8000 seamen. In
the course of the war the British took from
the Americans 17 vessels of war, with
304 guns and 2551 men. The Americans
took from the British 29 vessels of war,
with 506 guns and 3721 men. Now, mark
one of the explanations of this woe-
ful drubbing proffered by James in
his “History of the British Navy,” The
American ships, he pleaded, were manned
to a considerable extent by British
seamen ! When plain Isaac Butt, com-
mander of the Constitution frigate, fell in
with the Hon. Captain Dacre, of H.M.
frigate Guerriere, and captured her in thirty
minutes after destroying , and wounding 101
of her crew, his own loss being 14 killed and
wounded, Lieut. James explained that “ a
great many of the Constitution’s crew
were recognised by Dacres as British
seamen. The Guerriere’s people found
among them several old acquaintances
and shipmates. Were it possible that
the Constitution's ship company could,
at this time, have been inspected by
the officers of the British navy generally,
how many, besides' the commissioned officers
and the riflemen, would have proved to be
native Americans ?
* * #
How many of the crews of foreign ships,
in the near future, will be British seamen,
if the shipowners’ federation carry out their
declared intention ! How many even now
of British ships are manned by crews of
Britons ? There sailed from the port of
Sydney early last month, a fine, full-rigged
British ship of some 1700 tons—the Yallaroi
—with a crew exclusively German or Scandi-
navian. Britons never, never, never will
be slaves. Hence they do not suit Capital
for any class of employment. The- -rapid
displacement of clerks in Britain by cheap
German competitors has driven that most
docile of wage-servants, the clerical class, to
form a Trades-Union, as was announced by
cable, only last week. That will be but one
more union for federated Capital to smash.
Possibly, Capital will adopt the N.S.
Wales method of picking a quarrel with the
president, as a preliminary to breaking up
the union altogether,
* # #
But here let us pause. Sufficient has
been stated to permit of deductions. The
Capitalist plan of campaign is to smash
all unions of Labour. At present they can
generally manage to effect this by bringing
to their assistance the contingent of unem-
ployed British workmen. When a revolt of
workers occurs it is quelled by the simple
expedient of substituting for the self-dis-
placed workmen other British operatives
who had been starving. But in view of the
fact that the working classes are, as a whole,
steadily acquiring a comprehension of the
fact that this system of cut-throat competi-
tion must inevitably result in the enslave-
ment and pauperisation of the whole, instead
of a proportion, of their numbers, Capital is
preparing to face a time when no adequate
number of Britons will be found ready to
lend assistance to this system of mutual
destruction. When that critical stage shall
have been reached, Capital will be prepared
to import foreign labour to take the place of
the displaced Briton. The comparatively
trifling invasions already operating of German
clerks, Belgian artizans, and Dutch wharf-
labourers, will be succeeded by a stupendous
immigration of all these interlopers. And
should Germans, Belgians, and Dutch
become, as is very probable, infected with
the ideas of the International and refuse to
be the instruments of enslaving their own
class in any country, then the patriotic
British capitalist will make no difficulty
about introducing Indians or Chinese.
# * *
There is but one flaw in this comprehen-
sive scheme. There is a point in its
development at which it is certain to pro-
voke a stupendous revolt. The English
people will certainly not submit to be shoul-
dered out to starvation, to make way for a
horde of aliens. It is a sentence of death by
starvation which Mr, Laws, on behalf of the
Federated Shipowners (voicing the inten-
tions of the capitalistic class at large), has
dared to pronounce by anticipation against
all workers who may not consent to accept
such wages as they can get under “freedom
of contract. ” There are few races of men so
tame and so emasculated that they will not
fight for their lives. And Britons certainly
have not so degenerated as to accept meekly
a sentence of extinction. But Capital holds
possession of the Legislature, and is thus
armed with all the powers of the State for
the preservation of law and order. That is
to say, Capital can confront insurgent labour
with the regular mercenary troops. More-
over, the superstitious reverence of the
Englishman for the phrase “law and
order” is a factor worth reckoning on.
There will always be some stupid persons
ready to undertake the role of special con-
stables, and to grasp rifles if batons appear
inadequate for the occasion. But when
examined more closely, the availableness of
the regular “ mercenaries ” appears exceed-
ingly doubtful. The British soldier gets too
little by way of his share of the spoils to be
much of a mercenary. He begins to per-
ceive that his labour is just about as much
exploited as is the labour of his brothers of
the populace. Recent disclosures in the
leading reviews have shown that the British
private soldier is exceedingly overworked, is
treated with an extraordinary lack of con-
sideration, is wretchedly fed and most
miserably paid. They might, for yet a few
years, be drilled into shooting down strikers
in insurrection against displacement by Eng-
lish blacklegs. But when it is against dis-
placement by foreigners that mechanics
break out into insurrection, it is very ques-
tionable whether either police or military
are “to be depended on.”
* * #
Capital is, in fact, hurrying precipitately
on the direct route to revolution. It deli-
berately designs an England wherein there
shall be no Englishmen. It has already
begun to undermine the very foundations of
British naval supremacy, and it coolly
declares that it contemplates the expatria-
tion of every Englishman who will not slave
for it. It is simply the extinction of the
Nation which it is prepared to bring about,
rather than forego its pound of flesh. The
dealings of Capital with the mercantile
marine are, separately, quite sufficient to
wreck the British nation. Upon her mari-
time supremacy is based the entire fortune
and existence of Great Britain. And mari-
time supremacy is a ticklish sort of domina-
tion at best. The philosophic Monte-
squieu stated the case a century ago :
“ The fortune of maritime empires caxi-
not,” he wrote, “be long, for they only
reign by tHe oppression of other nations,
and while they extend themselves abroad,
they are undermining themselves at home.”
The history and fate of Carthage, of Venice,
of Spain, and of Holland, point the moral.
But not any one of these, nor all together,
point it better than does Great Britain
to-day. The capitalist’s apologists explicitly
announce that unless wages be kept down,
manufacturing and commerce cannot be kept
up. Yet if wages be kept down, the British
people w'ill become debased and debilitated,
and no empire can be upheld by,a debilitated
race. The outcome is frightful. It is fatal
either way,
* # *
Even as “the stars in their courses fought
against Sisera,” so all the omens are male-
ficent towards England. The soothsayers
are of one accord. Adam Smith, the
prophet British capitalists delight to honour,
is thus oracular: “Under the influence of
non-interference and competition, and wider
the domination of Capital , a day must come
when progress must come to a fatal stand,
and afterwards go back. From the moment
of this epoch we shall see a gradual diminu-
tion in the wages of labour, increasing diffi-
culty, and then decline.” Ledru Rollin,
the French Radical Statesman, who studied
British institutions while an exile on her
shores, remarks reflectively that :—“ All
empires do not end in the same way. The
barbarians of England are those hordes of
men who raise their withered hands towards
heaven, demanding bread ; it is a whole
people whose existence depends upon a
market which will close to morrow, either
by peace or by war ; for war destroys com-
merce, and peace raises up rival manufac-
tures ; it is wages that decrease and will go
on decreasing without cessation, until there
only rest on one side heaps of gold, and on
the other heaps of carcasses. These are the
gaping, inveterate, incurable wounds of
England—wounds of which no nation in the
present day offers a more lamentable picture.”
This was written in the year 1848. On the
first day of the present year it was announced
by cable that an appeal had been made “for
pecuniary aid to prevent a famine among the
London poor.” Absit Omen!
A Year’s Work.
About this period of the year the New South
Wales Legislature rests awhile from that
process of infuriated contradiction and assault
with intent to do grievous bodily harm which
is so essential to the well-being of the nation.
There is a temporary lull in the storm —a
silence as if that insatiable bone-gatherer.
Death, had fetched the politician away, and
thereby created a blank in the constitution,
and an empty space among the works of the
Creator ; and Hansard has stopped publica-
tion ; and there is a great calm in the Parlia-
mentary-room, where the hungry member used
to eat as if there was no hereafter, and to leave
behind him an impression that steak had been
thrown down a bottomless mine which refused
to be filled. The unfinished business, of which
there was a very large quantity, has been left
unfinished, and the business that has been
finished will mostly be repealed at the earliest
opportunity ; and meanwhile the members have
scattered themselves over the face of the earth,
where each is busily engaged in demonstrating
that every other member is a person of bad
character, and all of them are progressing
reasonably well with the work. The (Speaker,
whose employment consists ehiefiy in making
his voice heard over the howl and din of the
politician who has risen to a point of order, is
resting from his vociferations, and so are the
subordinate officials whose duty it is to throw
the same frenzied politician into the street at a
later stage of the proceedings. There was no
work of any importance effected during the
session, but, then, there seldom is any
work of importance effected by a New Mouth
Wales Parliament ; and 0719 pages of the
official records are filled with the dull, mono-
tonous wash of the great dead sea of language
which has no beginning and no end and no
visible object—a shoreless ocean of wasted
fluency and decomposed pronunciation. And
the story of the proceedings in general is merely
the tale of how 137 men all ground nothing in
particular upon a broken grindstone, and then
drew their salaries, and folded themselves up,
and silently stole away.
« # #
It is the noblest characteristic of the Pakkes
Government that it begins everything under the
sun, and finishes nothing either in the heavens,
or upon the earth, or in any other place what-
soever ; and it never gets to any conclusion
that any other sane organisation could pos-
sibly arrive at, but invariably reaches a lame
and impotent end by some unfathomable gyra-
tion that is exclusively its own. It always
opens a session by introducing about forty
separate measures, and it opened the last session
by introducing rather more measures than
usual. A few of them were reasonably pro-
mising ; a few were infamously stupid ; the
balance were indifferent; and they were all
drafted in the incomprehensible fasiiion which
no one in all the earth save Pakkes is capable
of. In the case of any other Government this
would, no doubt, be a serious drawback,
but as the Parkes Government seldom
passes a bill at all, and never passes one
except by accident, the details are of little im-
portance. Most of the Ministerial projects
were pushed through their preliminary stages,
and then they were left over, and finally their
remains were reverently carted away in that
nobly-deranged fashion by which the aged poet
leaves all things undone, and talks through all
the endless cycles of eternity, and yearns in a
general way after the Large and Incomprehen-
sible. A certain amount of time was wasted in
inducing Mr. Dibbs to withdraw his Bill for the
abolition of imprisonment for debt, under the
promise that the Ministry would immediately
bring in a measure for the same purpose, and
thus sacrifice all the time that had been already
spent on the subject; but Avhen the Ministerial
Bill arrived it proved to be built on a wildly-
inverted plan which merely aggravated the
ancient evil, and it was carried away amid
general derision. Also, several days were lost
in squashing Mr. Traill’s project for the
abolition of plural voting, on the ground that
Pakkes was longing to attend to the subject
himself, and finally the Premier produced an
impossible female suffrage scheme in its stead,
and then fled in disorder with his abortive
document in his capacious tail-pocket, and so
far as the Government was concerned the
session ended in a whirlwind of hair and waste
paper and exploded schemes and impossible
aspirations. The breakage of Pakkes’ leg was
the one definite result of the session, and even
that was accomplished by accident.
# * #
Apart from the doings of the Government the
session was made up of varied materials. Some-
where about six weeks were spent in asking and
answering questions. Probably another month
was wasted in personal explanations, mostly by
members who were accused of intoxication or
bribery, or who suspected other members of
being drunk or dishonest, or who wished to


draw attention to something they had seen in a
newspaper, or to mention something that was
alleged to have been asserted in a loose sort of
wav by an indefinite person who couldn t be
found but who was supposed to be lying round
and pervading space generally. One or two
politicians used up several valuable hours in a
lazy process which they termed defining their
positions ” quite regardless of the fact that they
had no positions whatever, and that the country
did not care whether they had any or not; and
imp or two more used fearful and blood-cuidling
language, and afterwards rose to present
an elaborate diagram showing the mental aspect
of the case. These latter generally retired from
a difficult situation by stating that they had
been wrongly reported—it being a permanent
feature of New South Wales politics that the
individual who has cursed at large, and thereby
u-ot into a scrape, never used the twenty-eight
compound swear expressions with which he is
credited, but had them ascribed to him by the
simultaneous mistake of the whole metropolitan
press. A reasonable amount of time and
conversation were also expended in draw-
ing attention to the fact that there was no
quorum present, and in finding out that there
was a quorum after all—because the member who
asserted there wasn’t one was incapable of
simple addition ; and business was blocked for
a considerable period by the necessity for
weeping over the “ manifest disloyalty ” of
A. G. Taylor, and in shoving that excited
member out of the House when he arrived, and
endeavoured to offer a long, compound observa-
tion which never got finished.
Several commissions were appointed at
different times during the session, for the
purpose of taking evidence on various subjects,
till the public had lost all recollection of them,
or was too tired to take any further interest in
them ; and these bodies sat with astonishing
vigour, and drew any pay that was attached to
their job with great mental force. When they
had finished they all drew up profoundly
learned reports, which were printed at con-
siderable expense, and then put away on a high
shelf among the moths and the shiny cock-
roaches, and there forgotten; and except where
the result was a foregone conclusion, they led
to no results whatever. Mr. Crick also helped
to occupy the fleeting moments with 210
speeches, all filled with thunder and smash
and general annihilation; and hindered business
a little by a joyous and intellectual shindy with
the brawny official who tried to fire him out
of the senatorial halls of a rising nation ;
and produced nothing whatever except an
acknowledgment that he had liquored up too
profusely, and had been legislating in a dream.
Some further time was lost through Parkes
publicly jumping on M‘Millan with both feet,
and flattening out that small, unconsidered
Treasurer; and another waste of hours and
energy arose out of the necessity for picking up
the trodden-on financier, and blowing the dust
off him, and replacing him upon his pedestal.
Several dozen motions for adjournment were
thrown in promiscuously and thrown out again,
and the financial statement was rushed through
with such velocity that no one ever ascertained
till long afterwards whether the country was
insolvent or whether it was bloated with riches
—in fact, this point has never been cleared up
to this day ; and finally the fag-end of the
session was spent in a frenzied struggle to
pension off the Government’s uncle or some
other relative, till at last the Deputy-Governor
came down by proxy and scattered the old,
dead show to the winds.
Consequently the representative institutions
of New South Wales are enjoying a well-earned
rest, and for the next few months the Ministry
will run the country on its own account.
During this interval of repose it will commute
the sentences of a few criminals whose fathers
and grandfathers occupy good positions and
always vote the Foreign-trade ticket, and will
assume an attitude of Roman stoicism towards any
offender who has no influential relatives. At inter-
vals Parkes will deliver an address to some be-
nighted audience in the back-blocks, and will
assure his hearers that he was the sole author
of the Education Act, and the great First
Cause of every beneficial measure which has
been passed during the past quarter of a
century; and in all matters relating to the
Australasian colonies at large he will continue
to disagree with the other six Premiers as
heretofore; or, should this prove impossible, he
will disagree with as many of them as he can,
and will object to the rest. When the Federa-
tion Conference conies! on, he will be provided
with an entirely original and unworkable scheme
of his own, such as no oilier presumably sane
human being could possibly liave dreamt of, and
he will break up the proceedings unless all the
other delegates accept it; while the repre-
sentatives of the other colonies will be
furnished with a coherent and ■well-de-
fined plan, which Parkes will reject
violently because it isn’t his own. If the
remainder of Australia should be seized with a
hurst of loyalty during the Parliamentary
recess he will rise in insurrection and hoist the
red flag of anarchy, and if the other colonies
exhibit strongly republican tendencies he will
scream for Imperialism ; and as for the Cabinet
as a whole, it will devote itself to preparing
forty new bills for the next meeting of the
Assembly, and twenty of them will be impos-
sible, and ten more will be incomprehensible,
Av . a f least thirty-five will find their ultimate
destination in the waste-paper basket, and the
five which become law will be past all human
understanding. And beyond these recognised
limits it is only safe to prophesy that the
Government will do something entirely nnex-
pected, and if there are seven legitimate ways
0 ( ’ om g this thing, it will find out a circuitous
ami particularly rocky eighth method and adopt
1 in preference.. For any Cabinet with which
AHKEs is connected always follows in the
ractoi theant, and the strong point of that
a orious insect lies in picking up some useless
0 "I|? c , ei §bteen times its own size, and starting
with it in the wrong direction regardless of
obstacles, and then getting bad by the,
oughest possible track to its starting-point,
'•bereo generally drops its burden and loaves
a v m g about in disgust.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Problem Without an End.
One day a few weeks ago the London press
raised its voice in disgust over the arrival of a
shipload of Russian Jews, 300 in number, to
swell the great mass of hungry, desperate
wretches who scramble for a few rags and a
mouldy crust in the East End of that city. The
new arrivals were all dirty and penniless, and
all ready and anxious to toil twelve or fourteen
or sixteen hours per diem for a pittance of 8s.
or 10s. a week, if they could thereby make 300
English workmen starve in their stead. They
were not by any means an isolated body, for
gangs made up of similar materials arrive in
England every week—in fact, almost every day,
and every day the howl from three million
unemployed inhabitants grows louder, for each
mouldy Hebrew or moth-eaten Pole makes the
prospect of work more precarious. Yet under
the system of Freetrade and Free Competition
it is impossible to exclude these vestiges of
battered humanity, and even if England throws
her Freetrade overboard to the sharks and
whales, and resolves to protect herself against
this invasion of the exported scum of Europe,
the result will be much the same ; the dead-
broke Russo-Israelite who makes slops in a
London sweater’s den in 18 hours a day for 10s.
a week is dragging the Englishman down to his
own level, and if he makes slops in a similar den at
Warsaw or St. Petersburg, and sends them over
duty free to compete with the native slops of
Whitechapel, the result will be precisely the same.
The alien dead-beat will be present in the spirit,
instead of being present in flesh and dirt and
rags, blit nobody will be much the better for the
difference. Therefore, even supposing General
Booth —that martial apostle in the flame-
coloured suit—should be allowed to empty all
the slums of all the British cities into Aus-
tralia and Africa the result will be absolutely
nil, for either the competition of the cheap
human wreckage of the Continent will pre-
sently reduce three million left-behind in-
habitants to the same degradation as the three
million who now hang out in the gutter, or else
the broken-down debris of other countries will
All these same slums as fast as they are emptied,
and the problem can only be settled when every
hungry, dirty, flat-chested citizen in all Europe
has been sifted through England, and duly
converted, and exported to be a nuisance and
an eyesore in the colonies. Instead of attempt-
ing to stop the leak it is proposed to pump
the whole Atlantic through it, and when
the Atlantic is pumped dry then the
leakage will probably stop; the idea of
stopping the leak in the first place, and
leaving the Atlantic where it is seems never to
have occurred to anybody. The industrial sea
is in a state of perennial storm, and in place of
keeping clear of the tempest it is proposed to
take the whole agitated ocean on board and
carry it away and deposit it in a cpiiet spot out
of the road. It is hardly worth while to waste
even abstract sympathy on such a project, or
upon the old fox in red by whom it was in-
vented. If England has neither the energy nor
the sense to protect herself, no one else can do
any good by removing a spoonful of destitution
out of one end of the channel while a whole
bucketful is allowed to pour in at the other.
The Australias would be sufficiently ruined if
they tried to absorb the “ submerged tenth ” of
the British population or even a fraction
therof ; to absorb half the earth, merely in order
that Britain may boast of being the only Free-
trade nation in existence, is selling a continent
and buying a loathsome and incurable disease
with the money.
A Judicial Conundrum.
Dear Bulletin, —A few days ago the Execu-
tive Council of New South Wales resolved to
remove the name of Mr. H. K. Bloxham from
the commission of the peace, owing to some re-
marks published by that gentleman in the
Central Australian regarding the character
of the Prince of Wales; and consequently Mr.
Bloxham adjudicates on the hog-thief no longer,
and has ceased to send up the drunk for seven
days. There was no attempt to assert or to
prove that the remarks were unfounded, but
the first duty of a J.P.—according to the
Pakkes Cabinet —is to say nothing unpleasant
about a certain fat man with £150,000 per
annum, or about his mother, or any other of his
relatives. If he fails to conform to this rule he
must go, and the truth or falsehood of his
observations have no bearing on the case. He
may lie about Wales if he pleases, provided he
lies in a friendly way, and states that Albert
Edward is the noblest object and the grandest
specimen of scenery on earth, but if he re-
marks instead that Albert Edward is only an
ordinary individual, then all the seraphim of
Paradise and the demons down under the sea
rise to repudiate his ghastly infamy. This may
seem like offering a premium to grovel and hard
lying, but that is a mere detail, and in the
great cause of loyalty it is necessary not to be
too darned particular. Also he may curse
the Deity if he feels so inclined and remain
on the commission of the peace all the
same, but if he curses Victoria, then the Order
of St. Michael and St. George, and the Prim-
rose League, and the Orange Lodge, and all the
combined forces of Capital and Respectability
will wake up and cast him out. This may seem
as if Victoria were a larger individual than
God, but it is not advisable to hunger after
information on points of mere secondary im-
portance. No doubt the ostensible business of
a J.P. is to dispense the law without fear or
favour, and so long as he does this it is of no
visible interest to anybody what views he holds
about a man whom he probably never saw, and
who never saw him, especially when it is
remembered that this planet would boom along
just the same even if Wales never saw any-
body, or was seen by anybody, either now or
hereafter ; but that is apparently a mistaken
view of the case. The justices who tortured
and strained the criminal code in order to pass
a hideously unjust sentence upon Arthur Rae
in the interests of Capital remain on the bench,
and the justice who did no wrong to anybody
in his official capacity, but who bad his doubts
about Wales, is ejected. Just here an impres-
sion might arise that it is a far smaller sin to
send an innocent man to gaol for two and a-half
years than to remark that Wales is no better
than the average run of humanity, but the
ordinary loyalist is much better at drawing a
salary than a logical inference. If Mr. H. K.
Bloxham had desired to release his feelings
about Richard 111. or James 11. he would pro-
bably have been allowed to do so with impunity,
though why it should be unlawful to criticise
a prince till he is dead and the criticism is
of no use to anybody, it is difficult to find
out. Nobody waits till the assassin is dead
before hanging him, or objects to the burglar
being run in before he is deceased, or asserts
that Parkes should not be commented upon
merely because he is still alive, and moreover
it is generally considered a mean thing to assail
a corpse and to be afraid to assail a living
man ; but even the most abject of living
grovellers hoots at the dead Stuart, while at
the same moment he jumps on anyone who
hoots at the live Guelph. The only possible
assumption is that the loyalist is an individual
constructed in two separate parts, and while
the upper-half of him grovels to the monarch
who has K.0.M.G.-ships to dispose of, the
lower-half kicks the other monarch who has
gone to a sultry land where the brass-plate of
the Order would have to be conferred in a fluid
state in a jug. There is no other coherent
explanation available at present, and if Mr.
Bloxham is anxious to find out the reason of
this downfall as a beak, these few suggestions
may possibly help him out.—Yours, &c., Titus
Salt.
Ten Hours per Diem.
The old eighteen hours a day, and the vener-
able eighteen shillings a week, having grown
wearisome, the railway employes in Scotland
are out on strike pretty nearly an masse. What
they demand is ten hours a day of laborious
employment for a pittance, with a reasonable
chance of being smashed up by a passing train
and a still better chance of being tried for man-
slaughter—which means, in other words, being
tried for being too tired to keep awake on an
engine-plate or in a signal-box. What the em-
ployers offer is an unlimited number of hours
per diem, with a still greater chance of being
smashed up, and the ultimate prospect of a
trial for manslaughter reduced almost to a cer-
tainty, while the pittance remains the same.
The matter is one of those which lie “outside
the dominion of practical politics,” and there-
fore Parliament has done nothing to interfere
with the grand old system of freedom of con-
tract by which exhausted employes are made to
wreck trains in their dreams, and jerk a hun-
dred passengers over an embankment while
standing up fast asleep at the points ; but the
police and troopers have been actively charging,
and clubbing, and assaulting and arresting the
strikers lest they should break a window some-
where, or scare a great, paunchy director, or
otherwise interfere with the safety of commerce.
Neither police or troopers have ever charged a
board, or a meeting of shareholders, on account
of the awful mortality which their greed has
caused among railway servants, but the mere
possibility of the railway servants causing mor-
tality in one director rouses both these powers
to frenzy. Meanwhile the nation in general
looks on in comparative unconcern, for the
average nation only insurrects over other
people’s business, and when it gets up
in frantic revolution it is generally for
the sake of some wall-headed king or priest
or other superstition, and very seldom
over anything worth having. When Charles
I. began meddling with the old Presby-
terian hell Scotland rose in arms almost
unanimously, and it also rose to fight like an
enraged vulture for Charles 11., who was a
much less important subject than a pound of
sausages ; and it insurrected frantically on three
separate occasions for three other Stuarts, who
all combined were not worth a pair of boots ;
but when it tried a Labour revolt some 60 years
ago it only raised an army of 37 men who were
broken up in a solitary skirmish behind a mud
wall. And the chances are that if any danger
threatens Queen Victoria or any of her off-
spring Scotland and England will both howl in
the forefront of the battle as before, but neither
of them will fight for decent wages and eight
hours per diem, for these things have to be
ruled by the great law of demand and supply,
while Victoria has to be kept up whether there
is any demand for her or not. For the human
race in general is filled with a certain asinine
tendency which makes it always ready to shoot
for an emperor instead of shooting the emperor
to get a loaf; and it will holler for a flag
instead of for a square feed; and it is per-
petually screaming after the traditions of its
fathers when the thing it really wants is boots
for its sons.
The Unprofitableness of Property.
The following scrap is- taken from the corres-
pondence column of a Maoriland newspaper :
The perpetual argument used by individuals of the
Socialist type is that the landed proprietor has stolen the
property of the people. It has become the fashion to
allude to him as a land-stealer, to imply that he grows
enormously rich by the mere process of collecting rents.
The real truth is that the landlord seldom gets more than
five per cent, on his investment, and as he could realise
much more from almost every other form of speculation
he is a loser instead of a gainer. The reason why no
Government takes over the land is because it must pay
3J percent, for the money to buy out the existing pro-
prietary, and as it would expend more than the other U-
per cent, in management, the transaction would result in
a definite loss.
Herein is revealed one of the hardest circum-
stances connected with the landlord’s arduous
calling —it doesn’t pay. Even city property
only gives a miserable five or six per cent.,
while the pawnbroking industry yields about
100, and the dividends on bank-shares vary
from eight to twenty, and even money lent out
on mortgage usually realises seven at the least,
and the intelligent individual who makes his
honest crust by having fires in his store and
going insolvent, seldom takes less than 250.
The man who owns a terrace valued at £SOOO
only nets something like £250 or £3OO per
annum, and there is no prospect that he will
over receive a better percentage, for when lie
raises the rent of ftis terrace to £SOO a* year he
puts up the valuation to £IO,OOO, and laments
about the returns as before, and if he can rack-
rent his tenants to the extent of £IOOO annually
then the valuation is placed at £20,000, and the
old curse about the unprofitableness of property
goes on just the same. Calculated on the same
basis, Mount Morgan is a disastrous speculation,
and Broken Hill must have ruined the first
discoverer, seeing that he had nothing when he
started, and the exchange jobbers have run up
the value of shares to such an extent that he
can only realise about 5 per cent, even now.
The bank which pays £1 per annum on each
£5 share is generally estimated as returning
20 per cent.; but when a miserable speculator
buys a tract of land for a bottle of beer and an
axe, he feels that he is broke in after years,
because a rental of £IOOO is only a return of
7 per cent, on a fancy valuation of £1.4,000, and
then he puts up the rent to £2OOO and booms
the valuation to £50,000, and his profits sink,
as a' consequence, from 7 per cent, to 4, and his
latter end is thereby rendered 3 per cent, worse
than his beginning. And when he realises the
greatness of his loss he generally sells out at
£45,000, and writes to a newspaper, pointing
out that the other £SOOO has gone to eternal
wreck through the general unprofitableness of
land, and his buyer has to raise the rent once
more in order to get a decent percentage, and
at the same time he shoves up the imaginary
valuation so as to prevent him getting a decent
percentage, and he also writes to a newspaper
on the subject; and yet the bottle of beer which
started the whole business was cheap and flat,
and the axe was blunt, and, in all probability,
neither of them had ever been paid for. Plainly,
the landlord’s occupation doesn’t pay.
+
Australian journals are reprinting from tL®
London Shifting and Mercantile Gazette a
yarn to the effect that a gang of wharf labourers
at “a port in the South of Ireland” (very
vague) refused to unload a timber ship until
the owners of the cargo had agreed to raise the
rate of wages. An hour later, runs the yarn,
a member of the employing firm discovered
that the gang who struck for a rise had re-let
the job to other men at the old price, and were
drinking away their unearned increment at the
nearest pub. This yarn is a capitalistic lie on
the face of it. The mythical “gang ” couldn’t
afford to relinquish a job worth, say, seven-
pence an hour, in order to do nothing for, say,
one penny per hour—which would be about flic
amount of the unearned increment. In the
second place, the “gang” couldn’t get drunk
on one penny per hour. Thirdly and lastly,
they couldn’t draw the unearned increment to
drink on until the sub-lessees of the job had
been paid. So there now !
A London paper suggests that if trades-unions
made themselves “pension unions,” for insuring
members against want in their old age, there
would be no more blacklegs. The idea looks
charming until we come to consider what pro-
portion of his miserable wage a docker would
have to pay into his union for 30 years, without
stopping, to entitle him to £IOO at the end of
that time, and how long he could support an
honourable old age upon the money after he’d
got it. The “pension union” scheme is, like
all other schemes for keeping the masses quiet,
founded upon the fallacious theory that naught
into nothing will go once and leave a little over,
if you only take thought for the morrow, and
don’t drink, fall sick, smoke, get married, beget
children, or die of having no work to do.
The proposal of the Queensland Government to
indent “ cheap Italian labourers ” for the sugar
industry, recalls the Marquis de Ray’s philan-
thropic and disastrous scheme for the colonisa-
tion of New Ireland. Subsequent events may
tend to carry the parallel a little further. The
Italian Government, however, seems a trifle
distrustful of the proposal. If, as is shown in
the text of the offer, Queensland is really so
splendid a field for immigration, why don’t the
Queenslanders give their own alleged blood-
relatives of the British Islands first chance 7
That’s what Italy will surely want to know,
before consigning any of her subjects to a serf-
dom which would be actually a living death.
The latest sample of cable intelligence :
Sir Graham Berry, Agent-Genera! for Victoria, has
written a letter enclosing a subscription towards the fund
that is being raised by “General” Booth for the relief
of the severe distress at present existing among the poor
in the East End of London. In his letter Sir Graham
Berry states that his experience of the Salvation Army
in Australia convinces him that the money raised will be
wisely disbursed.
In other words, Berry has given a copper to a
beggar, and this thrilling fact is sent along
through the Bay of Biscay and the Mediter-
ranean, and is landed carefully on the Egyptian
coast; and then it is started down the Red
Sea; and the exciting circumstance conies
ashore on the dry Arabian sands, and is fired off
again to India, where the statement that Berry
has jerked a small subscription to a mendicant
is launched on anew career of usefulness
through the mountains and forests of Java,
after which it crosses the sea once more, and
shoots athwart the Australian desert to its
destination. And when it gets there it is just
about as important as if Berry had gone to
church and dropped sixpence in the plate, or
had thrown a small donation out of the window
to a blind pauper with a dog.
The boast of the Yankees that should Great
Britain blockade their ports over the Behring
Sea dispute they could starve out the civilised
nations •by withdrawing their grain produce
from the world’s markets and plunge Europe
into a state of anarchy, has a certain amount of
interest to Australia. America contributes
about one-fourth towards the sum total of the
world’s wheat and oats, but it is doubtful
whether she could effect more than temporary
inconvenience to her foes. Australia contri-
butes one-fourth of the world’s wool, and
appears to think that the sole object of her
national existence is to supply wool to the rest
of humanity. Let her take warning in time—
it is a false policy which strives to obtain a
foreign-trade monopoly. American farmers
would suffer just as much by f heir inability to
vend their wares as would their customers by
losing them. Ditto as regards Australian wool-
growers.


[?]
8-10 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Jan. 14,1891.
Mv Dear Moorabisda, —
Indited in a pointy, sketchy, very ladylike fist, a bundle
of alleged “news” from the Cabbage Garden lately
reached yours truly, and after wading through a little of
It, I came to the conclusion that when a woman wants to
make her natural enemies feel ill, for private reasons, she
lias no pity on the readers of The Bulletin. But a sam-
ple or two may be psychologically interesting all the
frame. No. 1 says, darkly; “ The old fowls that compose
the Cock and Hen Club are having a grand time of it, and
feathers are flying in real earnest. It all comes of that
Carlton rooster being over-gallant.” It is quite evident
1 hat the gallantries of this peculiar rooster left at least
tme hen out of their Juanesque range.
No. 2 must be read mezzo-voce and behind your fan.
Involving as it does a delicate question of prospective
affiliation, I am too blushful to submit it to the printer.
Outburst No. 3 speaks of the members of a ladies club
being not exactly high-toned females whose discussions
savour of Billingsgate,” and points out how “ a Melican
member is getting the best of it owing to her magnificent
vocabulary of Bowery 1 ” But, after all, my correspondent
Is to be congratulated on the dignity of her reproofs—
lor what a struggle it must have been to refrain from
turning up her sleeves and splashing down a “ personal ”
like this: “That freckle-faced, made-up old maid, whose
Iront name is Mary Ann, ought to blush for herself the
Vay she grins with her ten-and-sixpenny teeth at the
disgusted mashers.”
In the pantomime “ Cinderella ” somebody breathes a
eulogy over ex-Governor earington—meant to evoke
thunders of applause”—in which he makes the un-
supported statement that “ we hope they’ll soon come
hack. The other night the singer paused slightly to
give the expected cyclone of public approval a chance,
but nobody gave the fond wish a mosquito-tap, and the
Binger went sadly on to the next stanza. Of such are
Vice-regal idolaters.
Quietly, unsuspeotedly, and deeply mourned, the
s raiable Captain Helbert, late secretary to Lord Caring-
ton and announced private secretary to Earl Jarsey,
departed from Australia to Brindisi by the Orizaba, which
left Sydney on sth hist. “Had to join his regiment” is
the reason advanced for this change of plans, and ere he
left us (sob) he went deeply into existing local, social
problems with the nice young men of Governor Jersey’s
** sweet ” who are now in our midst. Which reminds us
Of one Governor’s secretary who carries a bruise on his
ehin to this day from the sub-mahogany kicks of his
mentor when he betrayed symptoms of horrified surprise
as the guest of the evening gently tilted his soup-plate to
an angle of several degrees.
A disastrous accident happened to a charming girl who
was out riding with her beau in Sydney Centennial Park
the other day. They were sailing along serenely, when
Suddenly the lady pulled up and commenced hurriedly to
dismount, and the “bo,” thinking she was faint, was on
terra firma instanter, of course. But guess his cold horror
and the lady’s feelings when there upon the track lay a
littering upper-set of false teeth ! Almost with sobs she
explained that the joggle of her hack had shaken “them”
out of her roseate gums, and her best boy turned away
his head and wiped off a tear as he saw how fearsome she
looked fitting them up again ! The fall of teeth is the
end of love.
Vea, it is the beginning of hate. Mr. Sebastian Old-
mixon, a friend of mine, went up to the Sydney Metropole
the ether day to have lunch. While he stood at the
wash-hand stand fixing himself up, an elaborate swell
C une in, took off and hung up his hat and coat, and then,
taking out a full upper set of teeth, dumped them
light down on the marble slab. “ Don’t you find it
very hot?” suavely enquired my disgusted friend, who
wanted to see how a man talked who had shed all his
teeth in one act. But Mr. Gummy only bowed and smiled
a vast smile. “ I presume you mean to sharpen your
teeth before lunch?” then calmly remarked Sebastian,
trying the other tack. N.B.—Please speak in a very low
voice if you happen to tell this story at or near the Sydney
ISt-ok Exchange.
I- rom time to time broad-minded enthusiasts of the
land that cannot sec round a corner arise in the daily
press and endeavour to urge upon the übiquitous public-
Hchool-educated young woman the expediency of going
out as cook. A recent diatribe in the Sydney Morning
Herald contains the following truism ; “If we could
only overcome prejudice we should realise that the cook
is really far more independent than the governess ; she
Las shorter hours, better pay, and infinitely more of her
own way.” To which, why, certainly-only that the
-•'spiling young woman who starts out to earn her own
• sa!t ‘S' 1 ’ 1 a bit particular about short wages and long
Lours, so long as her “wages” are called “salary,” and
-•ve paid quarterly. And not only in order that thev
may be called ladies do girls take the husks and
3cave the wheat, but because they think that a
governesses they will have an equal matrimonial chance
with-the house-daughters ; for, they argue, the governess
playing accompaniments for the eligible he-ealler has an
unspeakable advantage over Hie invisible cook who roasts
Lis mutton. This view of the situation embodies, you
B-‘ ? « both sentiment and. business—and there you have
the whole thing. Matrimony is the beacon which induces
women who shudder at a scratch to plunge into loathsome
hospital- work ; and the hope of a “ genteel union ” is the
reason why “ladies” don’t go as cooks, and brave pre-
judice. The prejudice of her own sex a girl could afford
to despise, but she cannot defy the prejudices of the
eligible men, who, having in their turn to defer to the
snobbishness of public opinion, can only venture to
worship professional cooks privately, and on dark nights.
Cookie’s beaux are the solid p’leeceman, butcher, and
baker, while the governess in the parlour can—at least
sometimes—bask in the ineffable presence of the embezz-
ling bank-youth and the frayed Lands-offioe hide, whose
glory fades not though everybody is aware than the
bobby, or the butcher, or the baker, could buy him up,
over and over again.
A trio of confident local he-amateurs gathered together
at Randwick Town Hall on Bth inst., to give Burnand’s
operetta, “Cox and Box,” for the benefit of the Lawn
tennis Club. A full house, consisting mainly of the
broad-shouldered lawn tennis female who clings to her
jacket and blouse, straight skirt and cheese-plate hat,
even after dinner, and the square and springy lawn tennis
youth, resulted. “Cox and Box” went fairly well, con-
sidering the platform wasn’t lighted at all, and the
Coogee zephyr kept the main gasalier in a bo-peep con-
dition all the time : but though in the darkness a beauti-
ful young man with a tenor voice and a lovely moustache
might as well have been a Chinese god for all the havoc
he wrought, and the queer face-play of an obtrusive
funny man looked, in the deep gloom, as if it were an
evidence of agony ; still the singing was heard quite as
well as if the gas had been full on, and some of the tenor
solos were forgiveable. A miscellaneous concert rounded
off the gloomy bill, which suffered from the absence of
beauteous amateur girl—only one lady chortling a sad,
sentimental song at the rear part of the show, to dispel
the embarrassing idea that one had unwittingly intruded
upon a bachelor “toot.”
Apropos to singing, if any romantic, blue-eyed Poppet
has an idea that marriage isn’t an abject sentimental
failure from a poetic point of view, just let her contrast
the erotic warblings of the purely “visionary” spinster
with the more experienced sentiment of the married she.
Such a comparison will at once and for ever dispel the
idea entertained by the romantic flancbe that her future
attitude will be at an angle of ten degrees from
Reginald’s coat-collar. The average spinster with a
heightened colour and a quaver of real emotion in her
silvery voice sings a line like “ And my lover’s love will—
f-a-d-e not—though Time itself shall fade,” with the
experienced fervor born of the conviction that love is
built that way, which is most impressive. But the
matron, with a cold, sarcastic snap in her eye, cannot
sing such mawkishness with anything like real feeling—
indeed I have often detected a faint, amused cynicism in
her warblings that proves how desperately flat even
“ fadeless love ” turns out when the object of it becomes
“my dear” and “Mr. S.” Perhaps, though, there is a
domestic spasm at the bottom of all this cold, feelingless
song on the part of the lilting matron. A musical married
woman once told me—in strict confidence—that her
lawful lord objected to her putting much “go” into
love-ditties. He was appallingly bald on top and was 42
round the waist, and the poor man felt sure that her
erotic shriek was aimed at somebody else. She didn’t
say it wasn’t, but would tell me no more, though I
deeply sympathised with her and tried my best to draw
her out.
I am told of an amusing bit of waggishness which
helped to beguile the 111011010113' of a large camping-out
party of ladies and gentlemen to the Whombeyan caves
not so very long ago. Among the guests was a well-
known Sydney “ masher,” and to him one evening
appeared another of the party accompanying a fair Un-
known evidently suffering from neuralgia or something.
Allow me to introduce Mr. Blank—Miss Smith. Miss
Smith has been .suffering from a very bad toothache
and has been in the ladies’“tent,” &c., &c. Of course
Mr. Blank was delighted at the thought of a fresh con
quest. He arranged pillows for her to lean upon and
brought out his own cut-glass vinaigrette, and in ten
minutes had got as far as two soft sighs and a verse of
calf-poetry which had done duty to every girl in the party
and was about to squeeze her half-concealed little hand
when an interruption came in the shape of two male
guests turning somersaults on the grass in front of the
fire. “How vewy tedious!” said the masher, feebly;
“ wonder how the fellahs can get up the energy, weally.”
•“Oh, I don’t know,” said the lady, coquettishly ; “I
think I could do it if I tried.” “ W-w-hat!” was the
horror-stricken rejoinder, for Miss Smith was rising in a
business-like manner. “Of course I could,” she went on
gleefully ; “ anyhow, I’ll just have one shot.” It was a
painfully successful effort, too, but the masher couldn’t
really appreciate her genius because he was half-way to
the ladies’ tent to alarm the chaperone of the expedition.
When they both came back Miss Smith was standing on
her head, the shawl she had worn round her chin for the
toothache had fallen off, and . The masher never
flirts with any “ girl ” with the toothache now, and
always sticks to the weather until he gets a fair sight of
her upper lip.
A desperate married man writes to me in a sort of
reckless wrecked-digestion sort of way, casting bilious
aspersions on the soggy cookery of the average Aus-
tralian woman who has to cook the household victuals
herself. It is a miserable fact that most women cannot
cook, however dismally hard they try, and it is a still
more miserable fact that the cookery-book specifications
require a flash of culinary inspiration to interpret them ;
otherwise, their “ First catch your hare ” and then “ Add*
a quantity of so-and-so’s ” are nothing more than a dark
and hair-raising mystery. For instance, every cook-book
tells you to “ boil a potato 20 minutes.” Now, that seems
easy enough at the first blush, and so it would be if you
could bet on it, but hard and valuable experience gained
beside the kitchen fire teaches that some potatoes—the l
soft, floury sort, for one—take much less time, while 10'
minutes is often quite enough for the small, “new”
varieties. The same misleading “generalities” arc
repeated over everything in the stately receipt tomes,,
which are far too elegant to tell the helpless housewife
that the best way to vanquish a Murphy is to never let
him boil too hard and to prod one of him gently with a
fork to see whether he is done.
The Garrick will soon get up a reputation as being the
Sydney theatrical stormy Petrel, for it opened on a very
wet evening, and last Saturday—the premiere of “ The
Middleman”—was more than dampish, too. Under the
tearful circumstances there was resurrection dressing
only in the full-dress circle, and the girl with the artifl-
cially-kinkled bang resembled a grass-tree in a high wind,
for the rain had flattened out her crimps dreadfully. A
society girl wore black silk with pink and chiffon frills—
hair d la chignon ; black silk with fulled sleeves of white
tulle was the splashworky wear of a Being who cherishes;
a resemblance to Olga Nethersole, and who wore her wig
arranged dla Olga to accentuate the likeness. Somebody
else wore white satin and tulle with a flight of diamond
swallows in the hair, and a daring creature had trimmed
bright blue with the wrong shade of green and believed her-
self to be artistic. There isn't much scope for milliner-
in the “Middleman” (Cyrus Blenkarn, the principal;
figure, wore a thread-bare grey suit, relieved wi; h danK-
of pipeclay), but some of the ladies looked nice. As tin-.
trusting village maiden, Miss Nethersole dresses in a
subdued and persecuted manner, but in its last act her
heliotrope gown is effective. Watt-Xanner is best in
steel-grey velvet, with front of grey satin and grey velvet
stripe, bonnet en suite ; Alice Deorwyn has a slick fit in
mulberry blend with a flat hat to match, and if she would
rest her sempiternal grin now and then, and try to talk
less like a recitative on F sharp, she would be a charming
Maud Chandler. And Christine Tennyson as Miss
Umfraville, and Mrs. D’Arcy Read as her stage-mamma,
had evidently gowned themselves from Chinese diagrams
—colour and all.
At a bachelors’ ball, given at Hartley (N.S.W.), the
other day, a diamond bracelet was presented to the belle,
who was carefully chosen by ballot. To be belle of
Hartley must thus be quite a fat sinecure, and it’s worth
while putting up with the little nastiness of bosom
friends competing for a diamond guerdon and the un-
utterable kudos of the thing. The Hartley ladies give a
return ball shortly, when, I suppose, a true-lover’s-knot
scarf-pin, or a watch and chain, will be presented to the
leading beau, so as to put the sexes upon an equal
footing.
Apropos to beaux. At a fair held by a Countess Some-
body, in London, the other day, one of the Honourable
sons made a heap of money selling portraits of himself ! I
wonder if he is the premonitory symptom of a long,
gushing crowd of male professional beauties?
The very latest cookery book is in Chinese “ All Welly
li.” There are 200 recipes in Pidgin Inglis—“ You savee
ros’ fow—allee same you cookee him welly ni”—that sort
of thing, with others in pure Chinee, but not one of them
mentions how to make and fill stuffing, or how to
smoothly ice a cake in pure Celestial fashion.
Really one hardly knows how to put it—anyhow, it has
just been whispered that the favourite pastime of a
parcel of girls whose matrimonial fortunes have been
exceptionally brilliant, was to keep private vigil over
the Arcadian frolics of assorted strange characters, whose
moonlight rendezvous was tbe lane at the back of their
city residence 1 What innocent darlings they must have
become 1
An uncouth and unlettered quack herbalist and
symptom-reader to whom Sydney society at first took its
toothache out of curiosity but went again with a wooden
leg in a spirit of intense faith—has proved himself a child
of Earth by getting married, a little while ago. I saw
him and his bride—-a small, odd-looking lady who clasps
her parasol in the middle—the other day. They were
walking arm-in-arm down the middle of the street, and
the “doctor ’ had—ahem ! —no socks on. Under these
primitive circumstances Mrs. Doctor is rid of a whole
mountain of darning.
On the 15th inst. the Earl of Jarsey is expected to land
at Princess’ Stairs, Circular Quay’, from the same vessel,
ooincidently, which brought Lord and Lady Carington
out to their weary exile. The same forms and ceremonies
will be gone through on this occasion. Military will trim
the streets for an hour or two and everybody is invited
to gather together on the wharf to barrack for the vice-
regal gentleman, whose most interesting announcement,
since he landed on Australian soil, is that his wife will
follow him on the 18th inst. After he has been officially
welcomed on the Quay, everybody will troop after him to
Government House, where the usual oaths will be
administered, ’ after which a levee, commencing at
S p.m., will inaugurate the new regime,; “gentlemen to
kindly bring their cards to hand the aide-de-camp”—
Lord Ancrum.
At a recent A.J.O. convention, Mr. “ Seppy” Stephen
moved that the seats in Randwick grand-stand be num-
bered, and let at not more than half-a-orown a seat. The
idea is a good one, and would assuredly pay well, though
I am afraid it would lead to a great many more people
having to stand throughout than now, as each seat
would belong to one person for the day ; whereas, at
present, directly you rise somebody else occupies your
! csting-place, and you have to take your turn at standing
wearily on one foot. Rut what a boon the reserved seats
would be to the people lucky enough to get them 1 1
hope to see the scheme inaugurated at Randwick—
whether the A.J.C. decides on making an additional
charge, or giving a reserved seat with each admission-
ticket. The racecourse authorities would soon be able to
gauge the average demand for seats, and to provide any
additional ones which experience might prove to be
necessary.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
New South Wales can keep herself warm
without her “ Jarsey,” but she can’t keep her head
cool without Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
The long-expected and patiently-awaited
retirement of two N.S.W. District Court Judges
does not seem likely to happen, notwithstanding
the many rumours afloat. Which requires re-
forming the more : legal procedure or some of the
District Court Judges aforesaid ?
A copy, bound in black and gold, of the
31st issue of Sands’ Sydney and Suburban
Directory has arrived. It contains information
in its 1098 pages on every subject necessary for the
convenience of business people. But why should
the “ Macs.” and the “ Mc.’s ” and the “ M’s ” all
be mixed up together ?
Interviewed at Melbourne, Earl Jersey
said that as it was a real honour to govern a fine
Australian Colony, he could not admit that his
departure from England was a great wrench. If
this is so, Earl Jersey is unique among Governors.
Ihe departure from England for Australia of the
usual vice-regality is a severe wrench—a severe
■screw-wrench.
Governor Jersey turned up at Melbourne
in due course last week, and an honourable native
at once seized his carpet-bag and carried it up to
Government House without embezzling any of the
shirts out of it on the road. His Excellency wore
a pair of speckled pants and a hat that had seen
better and brighter days, and Ids coat was bulgy
at the back as if he had frequently carried
sausages home in the hind pocket. He proved to
be small and somewhat baggy, and he had a baby
smile partially disguised at intervals by an eye-
glass 5 also he had seven whiskers on one side and
nine and a small one on the other. His hair is the
same colour as a brown dog seen indistinctly in
the dusk, and he stutters badly with both legs.
The Victorian authorities having tried and
•convicted one or two people for assaulting
Catherine Butler and sentenced one or more of
them to fifteen years’ gaol and a lot of floggings
are now proceeding to deliberately and un-
hysterically enquire into the whole affair. With-
out making any personal reflection on the
prosecutrix in the present case, The. Bulletin
may be permitted to state a generality, namely,
that it is usually the absolutely wortliless woman
•on whose account men are flogged and hanged
The woman whose virtue would stand the test of
■a fourpenny bribe is generally so modest that she
shrinks from publicity and would sooner die than
,tand up in public and deliberately advertise the
■story of the attack made upon her. The heroines
•o( half-a-dozen of the best-remembered Australian
•horrible outrages” have all been “perfect
•daisies ” as liars.
TO A RECENT DEAR DEPARTED.
We thought you longed to stay with us
(Her eyes were brightly beaming)
Or shall we put the matter thus—
You saw her ducats gleaming ?
Her eyes were brightly beaming, sir
(We heard you had a hope),
But you quite missed her meaning, sir,
She’d rather wed the Pope !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “Cinderella.”
Her Majesty's “ Dick Whittington.”
Garrick “ The Middleman.”
Criterion “Harvest.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING (WEEK,
Theatre Royal “Aladdin.”
New Bijou “ Dandy Dick.”
Princess’s . .. “Patience.”
Opera House Nellie Stewart Farewells.
Alexandra “The Workman.”
“ Harvest ” is a nondescript affliction ap-
parently founded, by Henry Hamilton, on the
.London Journal, and prudentially inoculated by
“at V 1 , OMdaistic virus extracted from
Moths ere launched on a contagious world.
Here is the story : Frank Cates is a blase young
man who deserts Maud Williamson and his son,
at the promptings of an armv man (Titheradge),
who does a dirty thing one minute and sheds con-
trite tears the next—for a rich widow with
another fellow’s daughter, simply because he had
wedded the former, according to Scotch law, on
the wrong side of the Border. The deserted
Maud then says, with a spasmodic gurgle, “No
raattaw, the time will come. Beware ! For he who
soweth wild oats will surely reap the whirlwind :
but the harvest is not yet !' J Then she swoops
into the wide, wicked world, accompanied by
little Albion Whyte in kilts and a considerate
Caledonian calamity named Clitherow, whose
Scotch is so atrocious that Quong Tart, who sat
near us. threatens to call round with a bell-
mouthed Chinese fowling-piece and blow his
front teeth and pronunciation tae bleezes wi ? a
haggis, if he doesn’t rectify the errors of his
Hone. .The first scene is laid in Wales, and 20 years
after the deserted lady—who haunts the back of
the stage to shriek “Revenge! Ha, ha!” while
other hard-of-hearing characters kiss near the foot-
lights bobs up in Connemara attired in purple
and fine linen, accompanied by the silly Scotch
servitor and Percy Lyndal, her painter son, who
has grown out of kilts into knickerbockers (the
play is infested with grey wigs, knickerbockers,
and tan shoes) but how they’ve lived and prospered
in the interim is not explained. Then the artist
tails in love with Brenda Gibson, his absquatu-
lated father’s stepdaughter, and is introduced to
her by Babble Brook Boucicault, mashed on a
saucy Home Ruler named Pattie Browne; two
parties introduced to hunt laboriously after the
far-fetched wheezes necessary to keep a long-
suffering audience from rushing out into the night,
.rlien the dishonourable, high-souled army cynic
turns up at the pic-nic balanced by Fanny Enson
as a grey-haired maiden whose heart sleeps with a
young lover on the gory fields of the Crimea.
Cates, now a widower, drops on in a worn-out
condition, but fails to recognise the outraged lady,
who partially faints into a bowl of lobster-salad
ere the curtain goes down on her wrath.
Throughout the succeeding scenes—a beauti-
ful oak interior and a picturesque ruined
castle—she roams about like a banshee, full of
curses, calling on Heaven for vengeance in several
assortments of gasp, vowing that her son shan’t
marry the heartless Deceiver’s step-daughter,
and that she won’t espouse the aforesaid selfish D.
(badly in want of an heir) merely to legitimise
the son. Finally she relents, and the curtain
falls on four wedded, or about to be wed, couples.
Here the author strayed very far from Nature
when he left the Caledonian Clitherow out of the
connubialities, and the feminine portion of the
audience are only pacified by the idea that he is
waiting for the little girl who played a boy in the
prologue to grow up. The feature of the play
is its scenery, particularly that of the Rossmoyne
with its stream trickling down almost to the
footlights and running bade with fine perspective
into a haze in the dim distance. Artist Spong
got a tremendous call on first night, and Prompter
M in tyre came forward to apologise for his ab-
sence, whereupon the audience cheered the more.
When the lull came they yelled with laughter as
ho innocently said : “I’m not the artist, don’t you
know. Another Aohurch season may eventuate
shortly; most certainly the “Harvest” will be
quickly cut down and carted off.
* -*■ *
Said Ellen Terry, the other day, wdiile
ad mitt mg the value of beauty to an actress
“btill you can get on without it. After all
beauty has not much more power than a favour-
able criticism ;it can attract people—it can make
them perhaps come once—but it cannot make
them stay.” There’s a lot of truth in this.
Beauty, dress, stage effect, all draw audiences
more or less, but genius is the truly magnetic
influence. This reminds us that business, though
good at Sydney Koyal Pantomime, is not equal to
that of past years, and that Geo. Gordon’s trans-
formation scene is one of the loveliest and best-
planned we ever gazed on. Here we are con-
fronted by the fact that legs in the lump, likewise
lumpy legs, don’t attract as they did. Folks, even
the baldest, have become fastidious in'such
matters. What they look for is quality, not
quantity, inside fitting tights, wherefore we think
managers would do well to hide their doubtful
limbs in petticoats and pit the then disguised
damsels against those of the dress-circle on the
knv-bodtee and large-bust lay. We hear rumours
of the Irish Detective” and the “Enfflish
Rose’ for the 31st, but Grattan Riggs, now in
Sandhurst, says firmly, either Shaun or Henry
Fifth, devil-me-care which.
* *- * »
At Her Majesty’s the custom of admitting
people early m payment of an extra entrance-fee
nightly hlls the house before the doors are open.
Maggie Moore fell off the raft the other night.
1 hey asked if she were hurt, but she (having an
entire change) simply said: “Full on my boot
before my foot swells ” By the way, something
should be said in favour of the correct and
artistic way m which Mr, Fredericks has
designed the costumes, and here we might remark
that the masks are very good at both houses tiiis
year. Ayrton, over-worked, has been compelled
to drop the Bogie Man,” and he is now imper-
sonated by Guyton Heath, we hear, successfully
otherwise out of the bill. Over-much treacle m
the columns of a Sunday paper has made Mabel
Tracey ill, and little Delamere, who played
Robin so well m “The Wives,” fills her place.
Dick might run to Faster, but George Rex
has something else in view - probably, as we said
last week, “Arrah-na-Pogue.”
** * m
Bondi still stands where it did, but Alf
Wyburd is always on the move. One moment in
the interior limiting the Bunyip; the next he is
interviewing the hairy man of Balmam or the
cadaverous cow of Cootamnndra. Novelties he
must have. ’
A now-clmm actor got awfully “ corned ”
on a late hot night with the hoys in Sydney Then
he began to b!..w :J.„ it his J tal.an dinevff midg^


As is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a good photo, is a
VJ llUn I true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to the
London Palace of Art, 10 Park-street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developemen
to completion executed at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality. Staff of artists kept for working up.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
a little offensive. Something was said about “ a
good punching,” &0., and he remarked with great
dignity: “Ivas born in Napoli, me fazzer is a
count, if anee man strikee inihi, I yill killee ’im. ”
Whereupon some cruel jester said: “ Born in
Naples, were you, don’ believe it. Where’s your
ice-cream machine ? ”
** & *
The Cyclorarna continues to puzzle the fat
woman who goes there with a hand-bag of
provender, out of which she surreptitiously heaves
black puddings at the canvas, in order to dispel
an illusion which she fears is chiefly caused by
that last drop o’ porter, and not by the painter’s
skill.
** * *
Manager Larmour has a profound mystery
on the stocks at Coogee. We met Ike Weir, a
weird, bony-faced ancient youth with beady black
eyes, thin legs and a tired gait, who is sixty-seven
inches high and weighs one hundred and twenty
pounds, there last Sunday. He was driving a pair
on the esplanade, where nearly everyone asked
everybody else in awe-struck tones: “Have you
seen Ike Queer ? " Griffo will be unable to meet
Weir for some time owing to a Powell engage-
ment, and Murphy wants him to go to Broken
Hill.
#» » *
The production of “ The Middleman,” the
play by H. A. Jones which was Willard’s great
Shaftesbury success—he is now playing it at
Palmer’s Theatre, N.Y. —at Sydney Garrick, like
that of “ Doll’s House ” elsewhere, marks an epoch
in the local history of contemporaneous drama.
Briefly, the story is of the struggles of Cyrus
Blenkarn, a genius whose ceramic inventions have
enriched Chandler (Ed. Sass) a wealthy potter
who grudges him the materials necessary to
further discovery. Living for his art alone,
Blenkard does not recognise that he has
been defrauded and is imposed on by the
middleman until a fellow - workman, Jesse
Pegg (Hans Phillips), explains matters and
tells him how his daughter Mary (Olga
Nethersole) has been ruined by Chandler’s son, a
military man (Harry Jewett), whom he has sent
off to prevent mesalliance. The big scene of the
play follows (somewhat dragged-out by the
author), wherein Blenkarn implores his master
to recall the seducer—on his refusal, denounces
him and Anally invokes Providence to turn the
tables. The daughter sends news of her death,
Blenkarn severs his Chandlerian connection, and
in the next scene—a flue interior, with furnaces all
aglow, that reflects great credit on artist and
property-man—is seen, almost starving, breaking-
up his household gods to keep the fires
going, but refusing Chandler's advances
and those of his treacherous understrapper,
Batty Todd (W. H. Leake). Then he finds that
the firing is successfully accomplished in a furnace
that he believed had been allowed to cool pre-
maturely. _ The play closes rather weakly.
Chandler is ruined, Blenkarn has bought Tatlow
Hall, but, in the moment of triumph, the memory
of his lost daughter softens him, and he offers his
enemy a place as foreman. Then the news arrives
that the Captain is coining along with a wife, as
he thinks to his parents’ home, and Blenkarn
rushes to strike him down, but recoils, finding
that the wife is his Mary, the lost ewe lamb. No
explanation is offered as to how they met,
or where, and the curtain falls on rather
a let-down. The play is not likely to
attract those who “sit behind the stuff,” but
they may take comfort, for its teaching is not
aimed against middlemen but only against one
particular variety. It has a double moral: He
who invents is entitled to be Middleman over
those who merely toil, and it’s never too late to
wed. It is very well played, but pressure on
space compel us to reserve further notice till next
week. Jewett received a perfect ovation on first
night.
** * *
The Alexandra was the only Melbourne
theatre to make a change of programme on
Saturday. Business had begun to droop under
the weary burden of the warrior who wore a suit
of mail when he paid a visit to his Moorish
maiden, and the weird gnome was slowly de-
generating into an object of scorn. The Flying
Dutchman, too, fell short of public expectation
by not having any wings, and a quantity of inci-
dental music failed to soothe the savage breasts of
onlookers, whatever it may have done for the his-
trionic accessories before the fact. Under these
circumstances, Mr. Dumpier showed much wisdom
in trotting out “The Workman,” one of many
dramas with which Frank Harvey has made
money out of audiences whose wants he studies
to supply. “ The Workman ”is a plain, whole-
some dish, seasoned with honest sorrow and
unjust suspicion, but commendably free from
murder, theft, or felonious intent. It gets
along well without the meretricious aid of a
mad-house, or a conflagration, and it never be-
comes wretched at sea or run over by a railway
train. A surreptitious baby supplies most of the
motive power, this “accidental” hlmp of soft
humanity being wrongfully attributed to the
Workman’s wife, before marriage, instead of to
her sister-, a less immaculate young woman who
subsequently annexes an old, but haughty,
baronet. The true facts of the case are divulged
in duo cours'e, but the virtuous wife jibs at the
hasty aspersions on what is called her fair name,
and the Workman has to make a large fortune
in Australia before the past can be forgotten, A
more legitimate or closer written drama of
its class lias not been produced at the
Alexandria since Dampier made the theatre
popular. It is one, moreover, in which the
company appear at their best all round.
Danipier’s sketch of an ignominious ruin,
crumbling away under the influence of free
drinks, is droll without being exaggerated.
Appleton plays the name part more than capably,
while the lofty virtue and pathetic distress of
Miss Lily are set off to advantage by Miss Isabel
Vernon, who impersonates a superior kind of
larrikiness with dash and vigour. Several other
people are right up to their work, and the rest
bring no disgrace upon a well-mounted show.
There was a strong attendance in all parts except
the stalls on Saturday night, and the management
might do worse than reduce the price of stalls to a
florin. There is nothing “popular,” in an adver-
tising sense of the word, about the present
charge of three shillings.
*# * *
Elsewhere changes are promised for next
Saturday (17th), by which time “ Marjorie ” and
“ Ohilperio ” will have succeeded in knocking one
another out. It were impossible for two such
magnificent and mediaeval operas to live long
together in any Australian city whilst a panto-
mime continued to attract tin l heads and tails of
families. At the Princess’s they purpose falling
back upon “Pirates of Penzance” assisted by
“Charity Begins at Home,” with Elton once more
as the chubby schoolboy. A series of revivals—
“ Boccaccio,” “Madame Angot,” and “Paul
•lones,” for two nights each—will finish off Nellie
Stewart’s notable season at the Opera House, that
indubitable and indomitable divinity making her
last Australian appearance on January 23rd.
Apria Nellie the arrival of the deluge will be
averted, they say, by J. L. Toole, who plays
twelve nights at this theatre. He will be followed
by a season of musical comedy.
** * »
“ Dandy Dick ” still leads his field a
merry dance at Melbourne Bijou. The good
points of Pinero’s comedy seem to increase in
number and become better on a second inspection,
the opening of the second act being especially rich
in delicate satire and humour that doesn’t flaunt
itself before the eyes of men. The conscientious
art of Cecil Ward’s dummy fiddling deserves a
mention. It may be held up to the emulation of
friends who persist in scraping away for them-
selves instead of resting content to “scoff”
all the glory and let another fellow pro-
duce the melody. It is just at this stage
of the hilarity that Dean Anson’s mother-
less daughters appear sweeter than usual.
They sometimes fall, however, into the error com-
mon to all stage maidens of talking to one
another in the same voices they use for mashing
purposes. No man or girl that ever lived at home
with a lot of sisters, nor any fond parent of only
two young fillies can accept the private conversa-
tions of Salome and Sheba as true to nature.
Sheba is the worse sinner in this respect, and Miss
Seecombe’s gushing innocence, by the way, is laid
on a little too thick even before company. Besides,
Aunt George Tid isn’t the woman to stand such
affectation from her niece when she doesn’t
scruple to cut jokes at the expense of that damsel’s
feller.
5(6 * 5(6 *
The Royal pantomime shows preliminary
symptoms of slowing down, in the matter of busi-
ness, but the end of its tether seems still a long
way off. Jennie Lee’s patriotic song, “United
Australia,” or something of that sort, doesn’t lift
the audience out of their seats, unless it is to go
and get a drink directly the curtain descends upon
this balderdashy appeal to the stolid kangaroo.
Neither is some of the incidental variety business
appreciated by the main body of patrons below
the gallery. In fact, the time has arrived for the
great voice of the Press to swear at a style of
nigger “dancing,” the only possible excuse
for which consists in the fact that two
niggers have got a lot of senseless, un-
grateful evolutions off by heart and go through
them with mechanical unanimity. Let the intel-
ligent observer concentrate his attention upon one
nigger, wiping the other clean out of his line of
vision, and then say whether it isn’t an outrage
upon modern civilisation for two black objects to
earn applause by duplicating antics that are
beneath contempt when considered in a single
series. The ballet fortunately abounds in poetry
of motion, and every girl concerned in it revolves
upon her own axis with credit to Mrs. Royce.
5(6 5(6 * *
Other shows struggle along pluckily against
the curse of overproduction. Rickards, certainly,
was to wind up his St. George’s Hall season
yesterday (Wednesday), but the U.S. Minstrels
hold their own at the Vic., and the Gaiety people
have got a smart little burlesque of Felix Tanner’s
Fast, piping hot from the pen of Lance Lenton,
The privations of Frank Clark are mitigated, so
to speak, by the quantity of victuals he puts away
during his “self-imposed feat.” Meanwhile, the
real Tanner has left the Waxworks, suffering from
pains in the interior, and a magician reigns in his
stead. Dr. Carver’s Wild West booms at the
Societies’ Gardens, and the Cyolorama and such-
like matters proceed as usual, or even more so.
5(6 5(6 5(6 5(6
The renowned but now retired Madam
Sibley, once-famed for having more young men at
her feet on the public stage than any other
charmer of her line, is now to be seen in an
emerald costume on the verandah of her little cash
store at Drake alias Fairfield, N.S.W., where she is
an authority on “ White Rock” affairs and is more
especially known as the most able local political
economist. Her proclivities are Protectionist, and
it is said that a certain Cabinet Minister, noted
only for his white waistcoat and his wealth, had a
bad time at the hands of this omniscient sibyl.
5(6 5(6 516 516
A S. M. Herald correspondent wails abou
the wane of the drama. He complains that the
feelings of the public only rise “ at a flimsy opera
mixed indiscriminately with songs and dances,”
and then he goes to say that our grandfathers
religiously gave a wide berth to shows of this
description. Well, all The Bulletin can say from
what it knows of grandfathers in general, is that
they never did anything of the sort. Leg-opera
from its inception to the present day has depended
for support on the bald-head crew who nightly
infest the staffs with young telescopes to gaze on
the gyrations of the ballet. The Herald corres-
pondent must be a clergymen, or perhaps a dis-
appointed clergyman whose chorus “mash” has
gone off with some other apostle.
5(6 5(6 5(6 5(6
The most amusing thing in connection
with a Melbourne show at the present time is the
persistent efforts of a young actress of agricultural
build to ape the engaging mannerisms of the
departed Marian Burton. The young actress in
question is anything but beautiful in tights and is
suggestive of a bag of chaff trying to do “ Paul
Jones” poses with a pair of legs as handsome and
shapely as two wooden matches.
At Poverty Point.
It is said Sims has cleared £20,000 by his “ Lights o’
London ” alone.
The many admirers of Clement Scott, as a theatrical
critic, will regret to notice that a few weeks back cancer
claimed his wife, to whom he was devotedly attached. She
was sister of Du Maurier, the Punch artist.
Tenders are out for rebuilding Melbourne Opera House.
None too soon, and it is a wonder how the ricketty old
place stood. Toole will be about the last star to tread
the boards sanctified by Lyster, Riston, Jimmy Hogan,
and Muzzy.
The question whether Cleopatra was dark-skinned has
been settled by scientific authorities, apropos to Sara
Bernhardt, proving that she was pure white, a thorough
Greek in her lineage, as the coins indicate.
The American called Chevalier Scovel is called the
luckiest man in London, for he has secured a year’s
engagement at the Lyric, as principal tenor in “La
Cigale,” with an ambassador’s perqs., in addition to
which he is married to a Yankee heiress with £16,000 a
year, and, thirdly, he is the most lucky gamester ever
known at Monte Carlo, where he won £60,000 in 16 days.
He is too lovely to live. Bet you he dies in the gutter,
while the heiress goes round like the old haybag in “New
Babylon “I was a fine lady once.”
Heard at a theatre: “Why, Mrs. Newditty looks as
though she had simply drawn a handkerchief around
under her arms and fastened it by diamonds across the
bust.”
An Era correspondent properly demands that an in-
scription placed upon a new theatre in England shall be
altered. It is the common mistake of “Alas, poor
Yoriok, I knew him well,” whereas Shakespeare has it,
“ I knew him, Horatio.” Bet you nine Shakespereans out
of ten give it wrongly.
Santley is to be banqueted in London on his return
from Australia. It will be a big affair.
Bland Holt, supported by Walter Howe, A. Norman
H. Roberts, A. Glover, W. E. Baker, Mrs. Holt, Flora
Anstead, Virginia Vivienne, Blanche Lewis, and others, is
playing “The World," &c., at Hobart.
Dan Barry opened a new hall at Narandera the other
day, and is now playing from Hay to Melbourne, via
Chiltern and Euroa, on his way to the new Academy of
Music, Launceston.
Some of the goody-goodies who visit Sydney School of
Arts have written to the secretary, objecting to “That’s
when you feel all right ” and “ On the railway-line,” sung
by Lew Britten, now performing with the Faning, Tracey,
and Adson combination, on the score of indecency. The
committee have ordered the songs to be expunged from
the programme, but they’re purity itself alongside the
ordinary music-hall ditty.
John Musgrave has died in Melbourne Hospital of can-
cer, and the wonder to us is how he lived so long. Mus-
grave was concerned in the Eureka Stockade riot, and
had to bolt. He and Joe Dias, yet toddling round, used
to be chums with a travelling show. Little Joe shared
goldfields low comedy favour with Greville. Musgrave
will be gratefully remembered even by moderns for his
late fine performance of Ingot in “David Garrick.” He
leaves a wife and a large family. Benefits are spoken of
and the poor actor is already being called on. Musgrave’s
last appearance was at Melbourne Princess’ as Dr. Gran-
dier, in “ Mdlle. de Bressier.”
Grattan Riggs, who is playing Sandhurst just now>
threatens to open at Sydney Royal in “ Henry Fifth ”
on 31st, but will probably play Shaun in “Arrah-na-
Pogue” instead. Who will be the Arrah ?
Arthur Greenaway, assisted by some unengaged talent,
intends to give aShakesperean recital in Ballarat Academy
of Music at an early date.
The Cogills have been playing in Ballarat under Mac-
Mahonian management.
Arthur Lawrence is not playing in “ Harvest.” This is
for the information of an Adelaide paper.
Charles Noke, formerly chief officer on board the P. & O.
steamer Victoria, has accepted an engagement as baritone
at London Alhambra at a salary of £2O weekly.
Tilly Salenger has migrated from ’Frisco Orpheum to
the Tivoli, where she has a six months’ engagement as
leading lady, opening in “Aladdin.” Tilly was just
beginning to make a name here, when Cupid wafted her
away.
Slavin has unsuccessfully sued Mrs. Ellen Poole, of the
South London Palace for £l2O, being four nights’ show at
£3O a night. She broke the agreement because he was
also appearing at the Aquarium on the nights agreed on.
Signorina Giovanni Ameris, the contralto singer, who
made, we think, her Australian debAt in the “Yeomen
of the Guard,” died the other day at the residence of the
Hon. John Lackey, at Moss Vale, of extravasation of
blood on the brain, resulting from an accident. Her last
public appearance in Sydney, if we mistake not, was at
Mrs. Dargon-Piercy’s Y.M.C.A. dramatic recitals.
The ease brought in a Melbourne police court against
Frank Gerald for child-desertion in Sydney has been
withdrawn by advice of the N.S.W. Inspector-General of
Police.
John Rosier, the actor from South Africa, who opened
with Bland Holt in “The Golden Ladder,” has formed a
“ Silver King ” company, which he takes, supported by
his wife, Pollie Emery and the delightful Diver, to New-
castle for a start.
Three of the Gaiety Company—Fred Storey, Ohas.
Danby and Ethel Blenheim—are showing at London
Empire. They don’t paralyse the populace.
Johnny Sheridan has taken to New Zealand Gracie
Whiteford, the Tudors, Nellie Arline, Fanny Wiseman,
Alice Austin, H. M. Imano, Alfred James, the Boris
Brothers and Wilfred Carr.
The pantomime dispute of George Leitch with Nellie
Stew’art & Co., he claiming that he was engaged for a cer-
tain part, they, that he was engaged for any part deemed
fit, has come to a head. Leitch is telegraphed for to play
in “ Paul Jones,” and replies that he will if accounted on
the salary list, if not, that they’ll have to catch another
insect.
According to a Melbourne contemporary George Anson,
meeting auctioneer Zox and actor Sass together one day,
remarked: “Why, you fellows are both scriptural
characters.” Zox was ready to bet his name wasn’t men-
tioned in the Bible, and Sass had his doubts, but, drinks
being wagered, George scored by quoting the Command-
ment which says, “Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour’s
wife nor his Zox, nor his Sass.”
Charles Taylor and Ella Carrington, having just con-
cluded a successful season at Broken Hill (where they
w-ere succeeded by Maooabe, who will be followed by St.
Maur), are doing Adelaide.
W. H. Manning, who has just finished coaching the
Charringtons through New Zealand, will represent Myra
Kemble during the forthcoming “Dr. Bill” season in
Melbourne, which opens on or before the 31st, at the
Bijou, and will afterwards go on tour with her.
Emma Wangenheim, supported by Rosa Towers, Ethel
Maokay, Rosa Solomon, William Walsh, Paul D’Aroy,
Edwin Lester, Fred. Wentworth, Will Stevens and others,
have caught on with “ Falka” and “ Madame Angot,” at
Brisbane Opera House. G. B. Allen leads the orchestra,
Mitchell is chorus-master, and H. V. West spreads him-
self over the front. Now we learn that trouble has
occurred with the lessee and that a lawsuit may eventuate.
A motion to reduce the subvention of 800,000 fr. to the
three State-supported theatres in Paris by one-half, has
been lost by a majority of 39 votes only.
Said Arsfene Houssaye: “Give me ten women and I’ll
make ten actresses of them. The only art is to put women
in suitable frames.”
The manager of an American comic opera company,
sick of gagging, posted at tire prompt-entrance this
notice: “All giiying will be duly fined.” Beneath this
the principal offender affixed the absurd rejoinder ; “ All
fining will be duly guyed.”
One night when Jefferson was playing “Rip Van
Winkle” to a big house, an impecunious rival satin front.
The play progressed. Rip is turned out into the storm
and, standing on the threshold of his home, mutters:
“ You —you say that 1 have no share in this house ?” Then
through the silence came in sad and asthmatic tones;
“Only SO per cent, of the gross, Jeff,, old boy.” The
comedian collapsed.
A Birmingham paper says of Lady Dunlo, as Venus,
that she “ seems more bent on studying the deportment
suited to her peculiar circumstances than on acting her
part with real humour and spirit.” And again: “ A
timid, lackadaisical, prudish Venus is an absurd Venus,
and particularly absurd in a burlesque noted for scant
diaphanous draperies.” And the London papers want to
know' why the Brummagem critics are so hard on the
Brummagem aristocrat.
“None but the brave deserve the fair, and none but the
brave can live with some of them.”—Boucicault.
In Austria the musical pitch know'n as the diapason
normal will be enforced by Government on all military
and municipal bands and in subsidised places of amuse-
ment.
Little Gracie Hopkins, of “Lord Fauntleroy” fame,
prophesies in a Kansas City journal that Australia will be
a republic inside 20 years, and states that the Australians
dislike Englishmen worse than English do Frenchmen.
Precocious Puss!
Mr. and Mrs. Kendal are, it is said, about to open a
London theatre of their own. Nellie Farren and Fred.
Leslie have long had similar aspirations.
The tallest couple in the world are the Biffords, of
Champaign, Illinois, U.S. Biff measures eight feet seven
inches and a quarter in his stockings, and the missus
overlaps him three inches and a half. They are the
descendants of Irish kings, and therefore have never con-
descended to enter the show business.
Fred Leslie, writes a Bulletin correspondent, is hors de
combat, and will have to undergo an operation for
fistula. He has suffered intense agony for some time
past, and the wonder is how he has managed to play with
such verve in Buy Bias.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Charles Prin ” : The bottle-nosed potentate of
whom you send a sketch is not personally known to us ;
we are not sufficiently respectable to have so magnificent
an acquaintance. Years have elapsed since we were on
familiar terras with any man who wore a black-craped
white bell-topper, a split shave, and a double-breasted
frock-coat, to say nothing of a pleated and frilled shirt
showing two studs “ J.W.N.” (B.): Not suitable
“James Plush”: Appeared in Bulletin long ago
“Incognito”: (1) You would have great difficulty in
getting into an office in any strange city. (2) A premium
of not less than £IOO would be asked, and you would have
to work five years practically without remuneration,
unless you proved singularly clever. As your spelling
and grammar are still rather weak, we advise you to
study a little longer “Nautilus”; You have a lot to
learn, but persevere and study “ W.Y.” (Hawthorne) 1
Not verse by any means “ Punster”: Yoursand-which-
is-there joke is at least fifty or sixty years old “Calico
Creek ”: (1) Cordon was not an Australian. (2) He wa s
principally employed in station-work. (3) The poetic taste
is, we consider, strongly national nowadays. (4)
Bindley Murray... “Florida” (N. and 0. Road):
Have sent you a copy of Christmas Bulletin
“ J.T.K.” (V’ville,Turra.): Thanks, but not being original
its interest is discounted “G. H. Saker”: You are
obviously too business-like ever to succeed as a poet
“ Young Australia ”; Alas ! You have wasted your little
penny, and all your nice italics. Didn’t The Bulletin
“celebrate” Queen Victoria’s Jubilee? “ C.H.E.”
(Melb.): Thanks Very probably, as you say, Signor
Sani had nothing to do with the designs, for the Sydney
G.P.O. carvings, but merely carried them out according
to specifications supplied him. No Italian could be guilty
of such vulgarity of conception “ Bill Smith”: Women
will get the franchise by and by, but The Bulletin hopes
to see the male democracy fully enfranchised first. When
the women do get Parliamentary votes the world will be
priest and parson ridden for another long season, but as
the world has to take its gruel the sooner the dose is
disposed of the better “Zeno”: A pure enigma
“H. S. Vincent”: Paragraph compiled from Vincent’s
life. Have sent your letter to his son “8.A.”; If Sir
Saul Samuel is relieved of the Agent-Generalship it can
only be on the score of old age—he is 70. How, then, can
Sir Henry Parkes—who is 76—supersede him? “Cos-
mopolitan ” (Coll.): Will read “ Moro ”: Australia has
really no more true political interest in the ownership of
the New Hebrides than she has in that of the Russian
Island of Saghalien “Galway”: Mr. “Tim” Healy is
obviously a graceless whelp “ Homeless ”: Unless Mr.
Ardill promptly takes steps to vindicate his character
from the imputations in question he surely cannot expect
that anybody will be so foolish as to subscribe another
cent to his various alleged philanthropic schemes
“ A.L.0.”: Bimetallism is the question, meaning a
double-value standard, the using of two metals indis-
criminately as legal tender, as in France England has
its gold standard, and silver coins are only tokens, while
in India and Mexico silver alone is entitled to unlimited
coinage, gold being merely merchandise. Silver prevails
in China, too. France, Germany and the United States
have an enormous mass of silver coin not limited in legal
tender. Too much of water had fair Ophelia, and too
much of silver has America “Alaster W.”: On the
Supreme Court declaring that a paper is obscene, the
Government may seize and confiscate the whole of the
plant with which it has been printed, and may, if neces-
sary, follow the same whithersoever it has been removed...
“ K.J.”: One result of the female invasion of the fields of
labour now occupied by men will of course be, that men’s
wages will fall, and that man and wife will have to work
for the same wages as are now earned by the man alone.
“A.E.”: One of the cruellest features of the insuffi-
ciency of wages is that in proportion to the increasing
wants which old age and infirmity occasion, so does the
diminution in the workers’ remuneration keep pace
“ W.J.S.” (Carlton); Balderdash of the baldest
“ O.M.W.”(Adelaide): What is the name of your story?
... “ Union is Strength ” : There has yet been no honest
or enthusiastic agitation for Australian Federation. The
present movement comes purely from “above”—from a
pack of K.C.M.G.’s and “ glory’’-hunting tricksters,
whose every action shows that they are ready to hand
Australia over, bound liand-and-foot, to the English aris-
tocratic classes; that they wish to perpetuate in Aus-
tralia the effete institutions of Monarchy and not to
march towards the Republican ideal. Let the Common
People, the workers, first federate. Let them, under One
Man, One Vote take possession of the Parliaments of the
continent. Until we have One Man One Vote and the
electoral machinery is in other respects democratised, we
have no means of absolutely ascertaining the feelings of the
workers, who form the great majority of the citizens
“ Freedom ” : What Parkes means is this—that so long as
the Sydney Socialists confine themselves to bald and
unmeaning generalities of the kind on which he himself
politically travels they will be let alone, but immediately
they attack his Government or the Prince of Wales the
hall in which they assemble will have its licence taken
away. In other words, Parkes arrogates to himself the
censorship of free speech. There is no escape from this
conclusion, as past events show. The right of controlling-
public halls should be vested in an unprejudiced legal
tribunal, just as the right of controlling public whisky-
mills is vested in such a tribunal. The tendency
of Parkes is to vest all authority in himself
in a purely tyrannical and despotic way
“ E.A.L.” (H., Tas.): Will read carefully “T. H. Ord ’
(Stawell): Excellent. Will duly appear—“A.W.”:
Detection is certain, and now that the Sydney totalisator-
raen are being fined £IOO and costs, with plenty of gaol
in default, it won’t pay to continue the game ; that being
so the matter is practically settled.
In the commencement of the legal year
1891 there are 100 barristers, 450 solicitors and
attorneys in Sydney, and 250 in the N.S.W.
country districts.
In our advertising columns will be found an
important notice issued by the N.S.W. Post Office
Department in regard to a new system of collect-
ing postage due on insufficiently pre-paid, or re-
directed correspondence, which has just come into
operation. The principal feature of this system
is that to all charged articles there must be affixed
“Postage-due” stamps equal in value to the
amount of the charge to be collected from the
addressee, such stamps being cancelled before
delivery of the article. The public are respect-
fully requested to assist the Department in the
carrying out of this regulation, as well for their
own protection as for that of the Revenue,


WORTH IT’S WEIGHT IN COLD!
K'ooling-andStrengli
thcning KYIS 1.0-|TIOJT.
|TIOJT. for all ilisea
; es of the Ryes, more
part-culnrly Sandy Blight,lnflammation of tlio i 'ye; and
Eyelids, Weakness of
not only immednte i cli<
oasis of Sandy Blight
manent cure in a few
dghtWe.lt gives
in the very worst
but effects a per.
days.
IM-irc. Is (hi ner Kollle.
PREPARED ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
ivn o! 1 , l ? llsl ’ ’ WI *" 4 ° ,Ke Street, Sydney.
Ami Sold b? All Respectable Stouleeepkus.
h
h
Try Colemane and Son’s
Lozenges and Honey.
Eucalypte
FOREIGN STAMP
\Vo are prepared to pay l%h prices for old collections
-i.i -- 7 . —, - ------ - ot postage-stamps (state of book immaterial), or for anv
o 1 A ts.rnlta.ii stamps taken off letters dated 1850 to 1870, Look up your old letters, they mav be worth pounds
uost l| frce a,,^°Bfl l llt m PPi 1 an< t 1 , be ,l la . id fol ' b - v <>»<’ hundred (100) different Foreign Stamps
post tiee, -s. Bd. , ~o different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post free 5s LI • stamn
Albums, with illustrated catalogues, post free, Os! 10d. and Os. lOd. Stamp price-list” ratis ’ TuVTi.ii atkc
Jorre‘spondenee iml[ed e J ° lUnal f ° r Stamp coMectorB * >' o9 ' fITP ' 2a - P er year ; single copies, post free" Md. ;
U- V][WX3 ][ IST <sc CO., l'»rt‘lgn stamp Imptivlm,
!) and II Victoria Arcade, Ei.izarkth Street. SYDNEY, and at HAMBURG.
Use Batho’s Baking Powde
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
FULVERMACHER’S world-
tamed GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURE OF
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility Sciatica
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„ ’
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
Col h ge of Physicians of London.
1 ' or full 1 rice-list and particulars, see new pam-
Phlf't_ il Galvanism : Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pampii i.kts Fhkk.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
i* ROST & SHIP FI JV J\f£
KLKOTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
A Psychical Mystery.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Young Jack Wells, a socially-inclined
young flaneur of Melbourne, has just had a most
try mg New Year’s experience, and one worthy of
scientific consideration in more ways than one.
Jack had been painting Christmas red, and,
with his characteristic want of forethought, lie
found himself penniless after Boxing Day, and
with no further salary in the vista of the shim-
mering summer weeks until February. Ho
naturally appealed to his friends, hut, to his
dismay, they shut down upon him with a spring-
snap, and advised total abstinence as his best and
truest friend and bosom companion for holiday use.
Jack Wells consequently lopped off the exube-
rant branches of his social proclivities with one
solemn and comprehensive flourish of the excalibur
of resolve on Saturday night, 28th December,
1890, and went to bed a pruned stump of total
abstinence, around which buzzed, in locnst-like
swarms, the Colorado-beetles of delirium tremens.
i I happened to be round Jack Wells’ way on
Sunday, 29th December, and having heard of his
sudden conversion, congratulated him on his
pluck and determination, and advised him as to
regimen, diet and anti-alcoholics. But I saw
‘they were coming on,” for he was in the tremor
stage of hand-shakiness, and though lie had cer-
tainly slept, it had been the last fell stupor
of an alcoholised brain. Being considered an
expert in matters relating to “pulling a man
round, ’ I promised Jack to call round every dav
and even stay with him a night or two to “ help
him out. 1 did so. Strangely enough, Jack,
apparently, progressed well up to New Year’s
eve—rather sleepless and squeamish, it is true,
but as clear-brained and as cheerful as ever.
When he let Hogmanay and its midnight
screeches of “Auld Lang Syne” go by his
domicile unwept, I felt he was safe and that! had
got through a noble and tiresome task. He Avas to
bright on New Year’s day that I left him early in
the evening, with a promise to call early on’the
morrow.
“ Early in the morning ” generally means day-
break with me, but I didn’t sally out to Jack’s
until after six o’clock, having perused the daily
papers meanwhile. The telegrams from Brisbane
gave us news that morning of the death of
, genial entrepreneur. L was a per-
sonal friend of Jack Wells and of myself also.
I arrived at Jack’s “diggings” at about 6.30
a.m., and asked the beer-stained, thin-visaged
Avidow, who Avas Jack’s landlady, how Jack had
slept.
( The gent, in the back upstairs,” says she
has been telling me your sick friend ’’—Avith a
weeping sibilance on the “ sick ’’—“lay just like a
night and seemed to be dead asleep.”
i Thanks, I’ll go up and see him ;. he has pro-
bably had a fine sleep, and is awake now.”
I entered Jack s room and saw him as he
lay on his bunk stretched out stiff and straight as
a corpse, and with closed eyes—as immovable,
apparently as a mummy. But my experience
assured me instinctively that Jack was wide
awake moreover, that he had only that moment
awakened’ for the terribledewsof sleep had damped
all his visible parts and were running down him
in salty drops-usually a sure sign of a safely-
passed crisis. Still, Jack gave no sign.
“ Are you awake, Jack ?”
“ Yes, Harry.”
Say, Jack ; poor old L ’s dead.”
I know it. I’ve just killed him. He tried to
murder me, and I did it in self-defence.”
Great Heavens ! Here was an apparently sane
man—he had opened his eyes—talking with the
gloomy precision of a repentant murderer about
an event that had only happened in Brisbane
within the last twenty-four hours and of which he
could not possibly have known anything by ordi-
nary means of earthly communication. I hardly
knew what to say.
“ You killed him ? How ?”
. Choked him. Can’t say how I got back here,
though ; it puzzles me.”
“Tell us all about it, Jack.”
Jack’s New Year’s Night.
“Well, Harry, after you left me yesterday
a ternoon, I took ray beef-tea and cayenne and a
scrap of dried toast, and went to bed early. But
sleep 1 could not. I lay and read, then turned
down the lamp and turned it up again, and tossed
and twisted about for hours, with rheumatic pains
m ray legs and arms, and chills and heats, for all
the world like Northern fever, you know.
It was half-past eleven when a band of
roysterers came past-yelling ‘Auld Lang Syne,’
and 1 could stand it no longer. I felt that the
only cure for my agonised limbs was exercise. I
dressed, and followed the disturbers of the
night s accustomed quiet. I joined them and
found many 1 knew among the crowd. ‘ Hullo
Jack!’ said they, ‘ you’re looking peaked on it;
what sup ? Been drinking ?’ ‘On the contrary,’
1 replied, Ive just put the peg in-l’ve been on
the strict q.t. since Saturday night, and this is
ihursday night or Friday morning.’ ‘Oh. you
must have one New Year’s whisky with us. Fro-
duce the calabash, James,’ said another.
. !‘Eut I was firm as a rock. ‘Not a single
drmk, ’ 1 declared. ‘ But I’ll go up the street with
} ou and see the sights; I’m eaten up with rheu-
matics and my legs need exercise.’
“ As we passed a butcher’s shop a huge mastiff
leaped off the shop-counter and sprang straight at
me. 1 clutched him by the throat with one hand
listing at his muzzle with the other. Of no avail!
i lie great brute backed me up against the wall
and m some manner managed to climb on top of
niy shoulder, with his rump hanging over on my
back and h:s horrid jaws upside-down making tries
lor my throat. I then remembered what an old
lion-tamer (Cole’s lircus-man) told me once, in
Adelaide—that all wild animals go for the throat,
and m dealing with them you should go for their
throats and get a windpipe-grip. I acted like a
Hash on this principle. All at once the beast
gripped at my right side and made a hole in my
clothing, but I just caught him by the throat as
he made a second snap, and it remained a dead
struggle for two or three minutes.. To see his
tangs upside-down all the time, and the red. fetid
tunnel of his throat mouthing at me, while his
huge body strained my weak frame with its
muscular wrestlings is a thing I never want to feel
again. But I stuck to him with my nervous
fingers till his windpipe burst with a spurt of
mixed air and blood, and the monster fell to the
pavement like a crawling* iniquity.
My friends, who had stood by horror-stricken,
now came up and congratulated me. But I was
heart-sick, for I could see the eyes of every dog
we passed flash with yellow gleams of furies un-
appeased, and so flash at me, and me alone. I
could hear their growls as they barked the news
tiom one to another, for the instinct of self-prc-
servation had suddenly made me to understand
all the dog-dialects in the world.
- V '°' v came a procession of life-and-death
battles between dogs of all kinds and breeds, and
myself. I conquered them all. Some were easily
choked ; others gave me a labour of infinite dread.
Une thing I noticed, every one of them climbed
on to my shoulders and tried to get the death-
gup on me with their heads upside-down. I
leave naturalists to explain that idiosyncrasy, but
I tell you it’s a fact. ‘
“ Presently we came to a lit-up show-hall, the
proprietor of which was standing on the pave-
merit in front, and inviting all and sundry to
come and see the real live gorilla. I turned to
my companions and said-‘For Heaven’s sake
boys, let s go in here; I’ll stand tickets I must
B**™? of the "'ay of these clogs.’ So we entered.
We saw the gorilla. But directly the horror
saw me it raged with such hideous fury that it
burst the bars of its cage and with a roar-like a
thunderbolt mixed with a hissing gale—like a
hundred howling blacks accompanied by a score
of steam whistles—a roar of. savagery, rage and
triumph mixed—it made straight for mo. 1 was
at first as nothing in its clutch. It sped with me
into the street and down into a dark filthy slum
that may have reminded it of its gloomy native
morasses in the African forests. Theii it sud-
denly backed me up against the wall, and did the
dog-tuck, throwing tail and hind legs behind my
shoulders and opening its jaws for me head-
downwards. I saw right down its slimy, reeking
throat, an avenue of fangs guarding a filthiness
like mottled hazards. I knew the critical moment
had come, and, with both hands, 1 tore its foul
ensanguined jaws apart.
“ Thank God, the top of its head fell off. The
gorilla squashed to the ground a reeking headless
hideous trunk. And I fled for my life to the
street.
SAYINGS AND DOINGS IN ANCIENT EGYPT.
(From the sculptures.)
You wonder what this is ? Listen! It represents a miscreant in Thebes-ages ago,
say, about XVILL[?] dynasty-having molten lead poured down his shirt collar for going
about pestering people with the question: “Is it hot enough for you?”
“Tran mi wiinsf T- injn T u
man >’ l said > ! a Happy New Year to you! Thought
Bmbane * What luok bringS f u
“ ‘I was up in Brisbane an hour ago, but I
heard you’ve killed a gorilla in which I had a
show-interest. I left at once, for I am going to
klll >’ ou - !
T 1 catl ’* remember the details of the fight, but
choked the old friend of my youth, and then
? uddenl y discovered myself in a bedroom in Bris-
bane and gazing down on the "laid-out corpse of
dear old L .
“I remember nothing more till I found myself
g az:ll £ afc tbe ceiling, lying as it were in a bath
of Perspiration, with splitting and fearful pains in
‘“T every bone, and so weak that the weight of
, tlu; bedclothes appalled me and yet bound down
helplessly.
“ When you came in I was trying to fog things
ou t to my satisfaction. When you said ‘ L -’s
dead J’ I knew I had killed him somehow, and
now b Wl§ b I were dead too.”
.. “.Dah ! Jack. You’ve had a unique New Year’s
j^mjams, but you’ll be all right now.”
“But how could I have known that L was
dead •”
Ah ! how could he have known it ?
t i i i i
1 aeci;u ’e hereby on my word as a man
tbat tbe above detailment of facts actually occurred
to a rnan 111 Melbourne on the dates mentioned. I.
? an P r ? ve by * wo independent witnesses who
heard the first part of the conversation, that the
Patuent had some esoteric and psychic knowledge
01 death, but it was mi»ed up with the
of a disordered bram. I can prove
on fast that the patient never stirred a
111118616 visibly in his New Year’s Night vision,
but lay dead like a log. ’ With such violences
■ drea ming, if they happened to the soul when
wai ? a tenan t of the body, ought there not to
have been kickings and bowlings and smugglings?
But there was not a move. The patient swears
tb at he came to the end of his horrors at L ’s
bedside in Brisbane. Theosophists will tell you
Diat the re-entrance of a wandering soul into its
physical tenement is a time of strenuous and won-
drous. agony'* I only give facts and advance no
theories. Will someone rise and explain?
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
There are various kinds of humour in this
world. At Castlemaine (Vic.) some one has con-
structed a fathomless piece of mirth for use in the
cold weather. It consists of a sign-board with
the inscription :—“To Locusts —This way to the
green fields.”
Two French doctors, MM. Hericourt and
Riohet, claim to have discovered a more simple
cure for consumption than Koch’s : starting on the
assumption that the bacilli of tuberculosis cannot
live in a dog’s anatomy, they argue that the sim-
ple transfusion of canine blood will kill the
microbe of consumption.
The British Lord Chancellor has £14,000
a year and a pension of £'(>000 when out of office
(even if he has held office but a day !). He can
retire on the pension when he likes; while the
Lord Chief Justice, whose salary is £7500, has to
remain at the mill for fifteen years before he
becomes entitled to a pension.
Obviously Krishmish advt. from Sydney
D.T.
rpHERE cannot be much in you if you cannot keep
1 straight to accomplish your object; I can.
Unwarrantable conclusion ! If lie couldn’t keep
straight he had far too much in him..
The Victorian Commissioner of Police has
artlessly explained that the best official system of
dealing with ci.me is to wait until a prisoner is
released from gaol for about a week, and then
arrest him on suspicion of nothing in particular.
If he has evidences of fresh misdemeanours con-
cealed about his person, the police make t! a clever
capture,” and if he hasn’t, he is dismissed with a
caution to be more careful in future. By this
means the truly repentant offender is encouraged
to begin anew life and be periodically “ took up.”
Bah ! Bah ! Black sheep.
This Behring Sea Fisheries question brings
to mind again the exceedingly clever acquisition
of Alaska, by the United States, in 1867, when
Secretary Seward bought the whole lot from
Russia, dirt cheap, for 7,200,000 dollars, in gold.
The States thus have the pull over England, in
possessing the coast, with all its stations, while
Russia, at the other side, is America’s staunch
ally, and England’s steady hater. Alaska is the
upper jaw to crush Canada, and what a grand
country it is was made apparent by Lord Lons-
dale s recent plucky explorations. The magnifi-
cent river Lukon is a mile broad COO miles from
the mouth.
The Good Tidings continue to spread
throughout the dark places of an unenlightened
earth. _ At Aure Island, in the Pacific, the humble
Christian went ashore the other day and shot the
first three or four natives who came in sight,
because a white man had been killed in the
vicinity by some person or persons unknown. It
is generally supposed that he was axed by a female
whom he had outraged. One or two villages were
burnt down for insults tendered to the British
flag, and two natives were severely flogged on
general principles. The sower keeps on sowing,
and there shall be a great though somewhat com-
bustible harvest on the Judgment Day, when the
apostle goes to his great reward and takes fire
unexpectedly before the'throne of God.
Dear Bulletin,-—That well-worn phrase
“ Eike the Kilkenny cats ” is generally supposed
to refer to some characteristic specimen of the
Irish bull. There is really nothing Irish in the
origin of the saying. During the ’9B rebellion,
England called in the aid of the Hessians, just as
she had done in America a few years before. The
favourite amusement of a troop of these, stationed
in Kilkenny, consisted in firmly tying two cats’
tails together and then throwing the cats over a
line, one on either side, in order that they might
engage in a deadly struggle from which neither
could escape. The Hessians were one day engaged
in this game when an officer who condemned it
under heavy penalties was seen coming. There
was no time to pull the cats asunder, and so one
resourceful barbarian out them down with a sweep
of his sabre, whereupon the animals scampered off
without their tails, which were left dangling on
the clothes-line. The officer reported the matter,
and stated that the oats had fought until nothing
was left of them except their tails.—Tipperary.
A touching discovery has just been made
in a sandstone. quarry at the little town of
Warrnambojl (Vic.). A cold, unsympathetic clod
armed with a pickaxe, and with‘his dinner tied
up in a red handkerchief, was pursuing his avoca-
tion at a low and precarious salary some fifty feet
below tlie surface, when he came upon sundry
human footprints that had evidently been left
there when the sandstone was only sand some
209,000 years ago. There were two well-defined
sets—one large and wide and misshapen, and the
other dainty and fairy-like, showing where the
original naked inhabitant had roved with his best
girl before the first beginning of that hazy thing
of yesterday which is commonly called antiquity.
Neither of them had any boots on, but, judging
from the situation of the footmarks, they had
stopped and embraced each other several times,
and two conspicuous indentations showed where
they had sat down on the damp surface and
whispered sweet nothings into each other’s
capacious ear. Then they probably got married,
uud the owner of the large impression took to
drink, and stayed out late at night, and came
home in a confused state, so that lie couldn’t find
the key of the gum-tree in which they resided,
while the lady sat up for him in the fork of a
branch, and wept as she thought of the illusions
that had fled for ever. And in the end she most
likely left him and took refuge with her mother
“ft ° ld residence on the dry side of a disused
tint-Heap, and the romance of the two footprints
on lhe s F and eame to ftn end . P
1 116 Premier Permanent case has cost
about £35,000 altogether, of which the Treasury of
Victoria pays about £27,000. Purves scoops
something like £6500; the venerable, white-
headed Donovan, £3250; Coldham gets £2700,
and that rising junior, Bayles, £lBOO. Walsh, in
his capacity as Crown Prosecutor, gets nothing
but his regular salary. In the big case Purves
was “refreshed” at the rate of ten guineas an
hour ; Donovan required five guineas an hour to
keep him up ; Coldham and Bayles were revived
and strengthened with four and three guineas
respectively; these items being altogether apart
Bom the fact that it took 1100 guineas to grease
t J le * ollr machines before they started at all. For
the defence Dr. Madden got about £3500, and the
ot !? er barristers mostly took a humble 10 guineas
a day and reckoned in the value of the advertise-
,n?nt f ? r th f rest. John Nimmo could not even
cheapest kind of a barrister, but his
sohcitor, David Gaunson, sat by him and virtually
carried on the case by means of Nimmo’s voice
and accent.
Metabolism.
As the constant dropping of water will wear
away the hardest stone, so do the various pro-
cesses of life wear out the physical organism ;,
every motion of a finger, every breath inhaled,
every thought conceived, and every word spoken,
causes destruction of some of the complex molecules
which together form the human system. This
results in formation of a quantity of effete matter
called “waste products,” which if retained in the
system give rise to various diseases; if retained
in the muscular tissue they cause rheumatism,
gout, &c. ; in the lungs, consumption ; in the
blood—skin diseases, boils, pimples, blotches, and
kidney diseases. The blood is purified and im-
purities expelled by the various processes of ex-
cretion—respiration, perspiration, micturation,
and defecation. Where these functions are not
properly performed such symptoms as headache,
nei vousness, palpitation, vomiting, diarrhoea,
toothache, neuralgia, and constipation are fre-
cpient, and must have immediate treatment or
serious disease will undoubtedly set in, if the first
symptoms are attacked a cure is easy—if neglected
a cure is sometimes impossible. If Clements
■j on;c is faithfully used quick relief is assured.
'1 his medicine quickly restores the normal action
to any weakened or impaired organ; it purifies
and strengthens the blood, stimulates the kidneys
and liver, and relieves the bowels of all impactions
of faecal matter and strengthens the nervous
system generally. Its value is proved by the
evidence of its patrons. F. M. Vernon, Esq.,
I uraut, (N.S.W.) writes us: —“I cannot speak
too highly of Clements Tonic. In a case of extreme
nervous exhaustion which came under my personal
observation, the effects were truly marvellous,
two bottles worked a radical cure. I have noted
numerous instances where it has had a most
beneficial effect in impaired constitutions. ” Mrs.
Emily Webb, 203 Rose-street, Darlington,
(N.S.W.) writes us : —“I desire to notify the very
beneficial influence Clements Tonic has had upon
my general health. 1 was suffering from acute
neuralgia, and a troublesome numbness and loss
of power of the right arm. I was induced to use
Clements Tonic which completely cured me, and
restored my strength and appetite, which I had
lost for the last 10 months, and all with only three
bottles.” Migs A. M. V incent, Spring vale, Wagga
Wagga, writes : “ Kindly send me two bottles of
Clements Tonic. _ I have never taken anything to
equal it for indigestion and nervousness. For
years I have been suffering and have tried doctors’
treatment, but none ever had the curative effects
of Clements Tonic. I have strongly recommended
it to my friends and one lady says she will never
be without it.”
Nota Bene. —You must get Clements Tonic.
Remember there are men who would sacrifice
your health and maybe your life for the sake of a
shilling profit, therefore if any retailer tries to
sell you any other make, he is only trying tu
impose upon the trust you place in him, for if he
had an article to equal Clements Tunic he would
not want to sell it you, because it would cost him
double the retail price of the genuine to make,
moreover, they cannot make it as they cannot get
the material. Shun such men, for evermore, as
you would the plague.
To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion’
nervh debility. Bottles, 2s. Gd. InsisPon having
Pepper’s Tonic.
Perfection with Simpliei v distinguishes the
Shannon Letter and Bill'File. No folding-
all papers open flat. No endorsing; always in
cider of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maclaedy, 319 Ceors-e-street Sydney.
“Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
The London & Sydney lea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
90 Bathurst-street, Sydney.


DEPOSITORS. BORROW EKS.
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
LAND & BUILDING - Go-, Ltd.,
AND
DEPOSIT BAUK
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices: 96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
WM. M'COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P. ; THOS. TATE, Esq.
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS'
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
Participating
in
Bonus.
per cent
7 percent.
6 per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may bo operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Creelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now IBs. per down.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Shannon File and Transfer Cases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional office. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maclardy, 319
George-street, Sydney.
WORMS IN CHILDREN
Effectually Cured by
WATSON'S GINGER-
BREAD WORM NTT'S, a perfectly safe and certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepers, and
by the Proprietor, Jons Watson, Chemist, 581 George Street,
Sydney. In Boxes, Is.; by Post, Is. 2d,
Personal Items.
Mrs. Carapbell-Praed’s grandfather was a
‘ ‘ Waterloo hero. ”
It was 75 tons of ivory that Kanin had, and
that Stanley went after, not 74y.
Queen Victoria, we read, is a vigorous
hater of electriclight, on the ground that it isn t
so warm and comfortable as gas.
In the distribution of New Year’s honours
in England, Brains got a baronetcy, and Beer
(softening of the brain) a peerage.
A grandson of Major Mudie is in busi-
ness in West Maitland. Ho inherits none of the
peculiarities of his maternal uncle.
Young Master All Cheong, of the Celestial
persuasion, has come out Dux of the Melbourne
Church of England Grammar School.
A grandson of Colonial Chaplain Cart-
wright, who arrived in 1809, is “ bollocking ” at
the Redfern (Sydney) railway goods-shed.
Miss Aston, a blind pupil, aged 17, at the
Melbourne Asylum, has passed for the University
matriculation examination - an unparalleled feat.
The Marquis of Queen sherry has contri-
buted, “as a reverent agnostic to our common
cause of humanity,” £lOO to General Booths
fund.
Mr. “Justice” Williams (Vic.) has sen-
tenced a man to six years’ penal servitude, with
intervals of “ solitary,” for stealing 255. from his
employer.
Ex-Banker Holt is now employed in a
minor capacity in a London office. His late lady-
love is now protected by a wealthy Sydney all-
sorts man.
Mr. John Forrest, the first Premier of
Western Australia, and the only professional
politician in the W.A. Parliament, is a native of
that province.
In 1813, Johnson, the editor of the
Satirist, an obscene paper published in Sydney,
got two years’ gaol; his printer and publisher had
to do 12 months each.
Our contributor Mr. Vincent Pyke, was
amongst the defeated for the Maoriland Parlia-
ment. Thirty years ago Mr, Pyke was a Minister
of the Crown in Victoria.
Fred. Morgan, the Mount Morganaire,
entertained the deserving (!) poor of Brisbane at
dinner on Christmas-day. The credentials of each
guest were carefully scrutinised !
Rev. Dr. Grant, aged 84, of the Nowra
tN.S. W.) Presbyterian Church, is one of the 400
Free Church ministers who, in 1843, abandoned
manses and stipends for conscience sake.
Morrison, an ex-Queensland labour-leader,
recently denounced as having once been an appli-
cant for the hangmanship, has relinquished his
various positions and left for West Australia.
Don’t-you-feel-well-£-£ Smith, according
to a contemporary, was interrupted lately while
making a speech, Ity an usher who brought him a
note marked “urgent.” It contained a £l-note.
Canon Duckworth preached lately at Sand-
ringham (the Prince of Wales’ residence) from the
text—“ The glory of this latter house shall be
greater than of the former, faith the Lord of
Hosts.” O slime !
Some time ago Parnell told Davitt that he
was “going to get out of this without the slightest
stain on my name or reputation.” Now they say
he thought at the time that O’Shea could be
squared once more.
The Emperor of Austria was lately driven
along the edge of a ghastly precipice by a
mountaineer coachman, who said ; “ I’ve driven a
greater man than you over this path.” “Whom?”
asked the Emperor. “The Emperor Kossuth,”
replied the coachman.
When Queen Victoria visited the High-
lands in 1851 she was attired in a perfectly killing
get-up—a glace satin dress, with a brilliant shawl
of Royal Stuart pattern, and a yellow satin-hooded
bonnet with a shaded feather.
It is rumoured from more than one source,
that Gladstone intends to bring out a revised
edition of Paley’s “Christian Evidences.” The
original edition is remarkable for being at once
fearfully heavy yet vastly hollow.
The Duke of Fife has been forced to
resign his membership of the Reform Club. His
royal mother-in-law disapproved of any hanger-on
of the family belonging to a club so-named. The
word “ reform ” is tabooed in Court circles.
On a recent memorable occasion Parnell
said that “ a man with horses should not be asked
for references.” The old British idea of respecta-
bility, as Carlyle pointed out years ago, was that
“ the man with the gig ” needs no credentials.
The Duke of Portland has 70 gardeners
and foresters employed on his grounds at Welbeclc.
This is the nobleman who stated in a letter to the
Earl of Durham, that whereas jockeys were bad
enough some of their blue-blooded allies were
worser.
The memorial to D. H. Deniehy in
Waverley cemetery has not yet been inaugurated.
Mr. Dailey was to have delivered the oration.
Now there is too much jealousy between the
“ admirers ” to permit of a decision as to who
shall make a spaclie on the occasion.
Lady Connemara, late Govcrnoress of
Madras, has divorced her Lord —over a servant-
girl (a rather mean kind of Shea). Lady Quin,
- the tiger-slayer, was after all not the immediate
cause of the trouble. Lady Connemara is daughter
of the great Indian Viceroy Dalhousie.
Mrs. O’Shea and Parnell, it is said, had a
consultation with George Lewis, their smart
attorney, when she declared that “that thing
there,’’ pointing to Parnell, would spoil all, and
destroy her fame, whereupon Lewis politely
bowed, exclaiming “That is impossible.”
A London paper says that Mr. Lloyd
Osborne is the joint-author with his step-father,
R. L. Stevenson, of that somewhat unpleasant
book, “In the Wrong Box.” Which means that
tlic young gent, type-wrote it from dictation, and
as an American citizen put his name on the cover
to secure the American rights.
Thomas Murphy, organist in the private
chapel of the Earl of Gainsborough, who eloped in
1870 with Lady Blanche Elizabeth Mary Anium-
ciata, the daughter of the proud Earl, died of
typhoid fever recently on his American farm,
where his wife, Lady Blanche, died eight years
ago. The family had disowned her.
The late Charles Marvin didn’t copy the
Berlin Congress agreement in the British Foreign
Office, for his own purpose, being too cleverly
watched for that; but he carried it away in his
head, with remarkable accuracy. A £5OOO a-year
man ought to have done the job, but, as usual, lie
got a man to do it for him at lOd. an hour.
O’Grady Rose, the late Judge Molesworth’s
associate, once failed to find the schedule of a man
arraigned for fraudulent insolvency. The docu-
ment not being produced when it was called for,
.Judge .Fellows straightway acquitted the mn,
who was over at the Supreme Court hotel, having
a drink, when Rose rushed into court with the
schedule. Fellows said it was too late.
Some years ago, when residing in Minster-
yard, Lincoln, Edna Lyall, authoress of “ Dono-
van ” and “ We Two,” sent Charles Bradlangh £5
in aid of his sustentation. Lecturing afterwards
in the town, Bradlangh alluded to the fact.
“HIS FIRST ATTEMPT.”
SHE: “We’ve been married nearly twelve months and it’s the first time you [?]
home in that state.”
HE: “Yesh, deah, you see Crishmish only comes once a year.”
Curiosity-mongers traced the matter home to the
writer and she soon after left the city. But she
got back on the tabbies in her “ Autobiography of
a Slander.”
Mr. Critchett Walker, Plain Bill Dailey’s
beau ideal of an Under-secretary (and one of
the latest C.M.G.’s), is one of the three
sons of Rev. James Walker, M.A., of Oxford,
in 1843 head-master of King’s School, Parra-
matta. He died in 1854, incumbent of the old-
fashioned church of St. Luke, Liverpool, and was
buried in the cemetery of that sleepy town.
The other brothers are the N.S.W. Public
Librarian and the Assistant-superintendent of
Telegraphs.
St. James’ Gazette asserts that General
Booth, of the Salvation Army, lent Mr. W. T.
Stead the sum of £5OOO from the Army funds to
enable him to buy out the share of Newnes, M.P.,
in the Review of Reviews. We shouldn’t
wonder. Newnes established Tit Bits, which, as
its heading states, consists of “ extracts from the
best newspapers,” and the Review of Reviews,
which mainly consists of matter cribbed from the
magazines, is, after all, only a glorified Tit Bits.
Booth, like Barnum and Bismarck and all good
showmen, believes in printer’s ink.
So far, Mirams (writes a correspondent)
has had rather a good time. He has his meals
sent in to him, and wears his own clothes,
and his friends drop in and converse with
him, and whereas other prisoners are shaved, and
have their hair cut, and clean their own cells,
Mirams wears his own hair, and some poor devil
who has no influential friends, and who probably
got a longer sentence on a much smaller charge,
does the cleaning-up for him. In fact, except that
his umbrella has been violently rent from him, he
is in much the same situation as before he was
convicted.
POLITICAL POINTS
On dit that Gresley Lukin will run for
Queensland Parliament at next election.
Sir Henry Parkes lias drawn about £28,000
salary as a N.S.W. Minister of the Crown.
According to Moonshine, Mr. Gladstone’s
attitude over tiie Parnell affair is due to petticoat
influence.
John M'Elhone vows that he will again
enter the N.S.W. Parliament—as member for the
I r pper Hunter.
Jay Gould’s fortune has doubled in eight
years. He owns at least one hundred million
dollars, say, 25 millions sterling.
In Victoria it takes three policemen to
minister to the same proportion of population
which is attended to by one doctor.
For the nine months ending 30th Septem-
ber last, New Zealand lost 8552 of her population
by the excess of emigration over immigration.
Parkes’ conduct of late is another proof of
the adage that it is impossible to teach an old dog
new tricks. The only way is to get a new dog.
Secretary Blaine’s action on the Behring
fisheries has the ulterior object ot pushing forward
his great scheme for the creation of a U.S. navy.
The Bulletin predicts that the N.S.W.
Railway Commissioners will have to climb down ;
if they don’t, the Parkes Ministry will fall down.
Francis Abigail holds himself aloof from
Parkes,. to whom he owes a hard knock, and-
thinks about a N.S.W. working-man’s Freetrade
Government.
The last U.S. census shows a population
of (12 5 millions, or three times as many inhabitants
as 40 years ago, and an increase of 12 millions in
the last 10 years. Immigration.
A Sydney trader has given 5600 guineas
for a horse. Earned by his own abstinence, we
presume. Be abstinent, ye workers, and you’ll all
own £5600 blood-horses, say the apologists for
uroduction by competitive methods.
Gladstone announces that the British
Opposition is about to proclaim for One Man One
Vote. However, let no one forget that Sir George
Grey has carried “ one man one vote ” in Maori-
land, and that while in Opposition, too.
It is expected that the 1891 census will
show the population of S. Australia at not over
320,000. The absorption by Broken Hill of the
colony’s surplus labour accounts for the popula-
tion being stationary during the last seven years.
Gladstone’s retirement could not possibly
cause any mischief, and might do a lot of good. He
has been in a false position since he tacked to take
the wind out of Salisbury’s sails. He couldn’t
have lived it down if he had been 20 years old.
When he goes, the Liberals will close up.
Jules Ferry raises his head in politics
again. He is another of those men made by his
wife, like Disraeli, Palmerston and Blaine. Then
he is a Jew, of the Frenchy type. A strong point
is his strenuous opposition of Boulanger, whom
he styled “the St. Arnaud of the Cafes.”
A discussion has been going on in the
Times as to whether betting is increasing or not.
One correspondent ways that gambling-losses
“ develope feelings of brutality and greed, to which
the socialism and ruffianism of the present age are
in great measure due.” “Socialism and ruffian-
ism ” is good.
Sir Robert Stout is now very stout and
lazy-looking. He has given up Freethought-
lecturing, never mentions Bradlaugh in public,
and has apparently gone back on his old principles
as an ardent land-taxer. He now reminds one of
the sort of men Julius Caesar liked :
Let me have men about me that are fat,
Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o’ nights.
Delegate Parker, whose claims to the
position of first Premier under the new W.A.
Constitution were generally considered superior to
John Forrest’s, has been strongly supported at
the late elections. He will lead the Opposition in
the Assembly, and his policy is a vigorous develop-
ment of the mineral and agricultural resources of
the province.
The Sydney Morning Herald upholds
the action of the N .S. W. Railway Commissioners
in dismissing Mr, Hoyle ; the Echo, owned by,
and published from tin- office of the same pro-
prietors, opposes it. When the Fairfaxes build a
new office, which is said to bo on the cards, let
them not forget the head of Mr. Faeing-both-ways
Janus, over the portico !
According to all one hears, Railway-Com-
missioner Eddy has a very bad temper, indeed,
and as he comes to N.S.W. direct from a cheap-
labour and give-me-no-back-talk-but-take-your-
hat-off-most-respectfully-to-your-master-my-good-
fellovv country he is not the best man in the world
to personally deal with the hitherto free and out-
spoken Australian wage-earner.
Fancy Graham Berry, the waggon-orator
of Paddy’s Market, watching the Lord Mayor’s
Show from a London balcony, in the distinguished
company of the proprietor of the Argus ! —Such
is the news. No more broken heads and flaming
houses —Graham is provided for. We last saw
him smoking an eighteenpenny Havana on the
steps of the Carlton Club, in patent-leathers and
sucking a knobby clouded cane, *
Governor Kintore does not get on too
comfortably with his present Ministers. Con-
cerning a recent important appointment it is
stated that the Playford Ministry were not con-
sulted, the first they knew of the affair being per
medium of the press and published “by authority.”
Consequently, the S. A. Ministers don’t admire
Kintore’s methods of doing business any more
than they did their predecessors’.
According to the N.Z. electoral regula-
tions an elector under a property qualification
may leave the country and be absent for years,
but so long as he retains the property his name
cannot be struck off the roll. On the other hand,
an elector who has only a residential qualification
is liable to be struck off at any time on changing
his address. The Tory party profited largely by
the latter circumstance during the late election.
We hear a story of a property-holding
working-man who “thanked God he had not to
vote on an elector’s right.” Oh, bombastic, goods-
inflated ass, what nobler credential for voting
couldst thou have than that of manhood? For
thy children, what of them ? Thou hast six sons ;
canst thou leave them each enough property to
ensure them, a vote? If so, dost think their
children will all be similarly gifted ? Wherefore,
plume not thyself on Property.
The second meeting of Homo Rulers to
consider the Parnell affair was not called by their
chairman but by a requisition of the party, and he
was not expected to be present. But when the
appointed time came Mr. Parnell put in an appear-
ance and took the chair without a word. “And
how did he treat you ? ” asked a friend of one of
the Parnellite members when the meeting was
over. “ Why, he treated us,” replied the member,
“as if it were we who had committed adultery with
his wife! ”
Twenty thousand pounds is to come out
of the Victorian taxpayers for the Premier Per-
manent prosecution, gorging those fat lawyers,
Pnrves, Madden, Coldham, and Donovan. Lawyer
.Walsh growls because he was State Prosecutor on
a miserable salary of £BOO a year, or some such
paltry pittance. What is gained ? save by
Pnrves and Co. Do the meshes catch the right
fish? Is Mirams the biggest? The Bulletin
wagers that he goes flying into Parliament directly
he is released.
A Melbourne Savings Bank man writes to
the Age to say that “ pauperism can never be
Iriven out of the world except by thrift.” Bah !
How can you be thrifty if you scarcely earn
enough for the necessaries of life? How can you
support life, except as a pauper, if you are
afforded no opportunity of earning a living, or are
too old, weak, and ill to take advantage of one if
it were offered ? No, Mr. Actuary ; thrift on the
part of the poor simply means more plunder for
the expropriator !
The tallest royal highness at present exist-
ing is the Crown Princess of Denmark, who is Oft.
Jin, from her hair to the; soles of her feet. And
yet even from that commanding elevation she
doesn’t seem to set the approaching abolition of
monarchy any better than the smallest imperial
dignitary who has to climb up on a chair to reach
his own corns; and when the revolution comes
she will have to be doubled up to get ber into a
place of concealment, while the ordinary monarch
will dodge conveniently into a rat-hole.
Stead writes, in his paper, that the news
about Parnell made him feel utterly “heart-
broken,” which is your prime cream of journal-
istic cant, humbug and hypocrisy, for such a
well-informed man as Stead must have known
about Kitty all along. Heartbroken! About
doubled his circulation. Like the brother editor
who chronicles this joyful—we mean melancholy
occasion, when half the next town has been
Devasted by the Most Frightful Conflagration
on record. “ Trust none of us,” says Hamlet.


/>mj’P/LLS (
■w
h
& • I? • ® •
, Me/f 's -2- ¥ a c *>,
a£>u/- /fF (p 7 s oape-}
ic fa*t $ f** f e
( de^c
INOUI
orriLE
sparring,
exhibition
CLOSING
°F
’/VJAILS
c?-'/
IR»TE,f
TrJ f ,
WTmTmmH
htjanijiemij fj of (\vi wed
lyf&resF l>t posted
Up iy fife oj
f e i-^Lfe
heyy
< 50WIAIC >
/v
Au
1% •
Vfc % fey 4
1 f~ 'tyAcrWhtrt
f c ‘Hi vir fir
Seer^.
wmm
■■liliffl
h
AeuJ Posl^OfA/: c.e i 6 gW
Sytfticp/e CdouJlcL fie,a-h '
h
h
JtyrZtF &rA&/s
S'c/fy- cfu/?/oar/~/yg /£owe<s
yfea-y rffif/S*
[htj
0
s mw
y *
tf-^trts 7 - t/.
iNQUiRU
V*
/L\
f*)i r,
‘h V
'A
<)■>
/ \ i Zr
I[iTa |
U'"
5 oj,":
/7
.....
h/io. ni/ohh S7/1? <Xs> qaycQs
*yef~ £/*%# 'O /nor?? 1 /'
A FEW ADVERTISING TIPS TO THE N.S.W. POSHTMASHTHER-GINERAL.


In prison cell Janies Mirams sits,
He looks so old and poorly
And musingly lie murmurs, “ It’a
A pity I’m not Gourlay!”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 —KING STREET 90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits :
3 Years 9 per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months ... 7| per cent.
3 Months \ ... 5| per cent.
5 percent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE GO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS,
BRANCHES
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE —Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE - 37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE
Lord Ulick H. Blown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits :
3 Months ... 6 per cent,
j (i Months .... 7 per cent.
12 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Years 9 per cent.
A. MILLER
General Manager.
W. H. PAL I N G & COMP A N Y, LIM 1T E I),
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3\Tew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uebel, Eenricb, Li||J.. Eonisch, Bluthner, Collard,and others
Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £<4:s and Estey Organs. No such Variety or Vawe.elsewhere for Cash or Tekms.
Society
The “Australian fellow-passengers” of
the Earl of Jersey gave him a dinner before
arriving at Adelaide, and presented him with an
address wherein he was thanked heartily for not
having made himself offensive to them during the
voyage. It is almost a pity that these “ repre-
sentative Australians ” didn’t postpone their
grovel until they got the unfortunate lord ashore.
By the way, it is stated that the Earl was very
seasick during the passage—at least, he was polite
enough to say it was seasickness.
* * *
When Governor Jersey landed at Adelaide
the reporters pounced down upon him, but His
Ex. “merely smiled.” He wouldn’t tell them
whether he intended to set up a racing establish-
ment, nor would he say what he thought of
General Booth’s scheme—he would commit him-
self to nothing save the bald assertion that ho
liked Australia so far as he had seen it. Where-
upon Sydney Daily Telegraph goes right down
upon its knees in leaded long primer :
This caution and circumspection in small things argue®
well for the capability of our future Governor to act with
discretion and consideration in larger matters.
“ There are two ways,” once wrote the immortal
Washington Irving, “in which a man can get a
reputation for wisdom. One is by talking a great
deal and thinking very little; the other, by
shutting his mouth and not thinking at all.”
# * *
In his salad days Lord Jersey was a
decided “ mug,” and various attempts were made
to capture him matrimonially. Once upon a time
he found himself located for a while at Keswick,
in the Cumberland Lake district. A hotelkeeper
there, one Tether, had a lot of daughters, real
smart girls, always on the look out for the main
chance. No sooner had the youthful Viscount
Villiers, as he was then, appeared on the scene
than one of the girls made for him. She was
clever —he the reverse. The inevitable happened.
Young Villiers fell in love, and was all but hooked
when Papa Jersey heard of the dreadful state of
things, and at once despatched a bear-leader to
capture his amorous heir. The rescuer arrived
just in time, and carried off his charge, to the
disgust of the young lady arid her family. When
reminded of this some time ago, Jersey admitted
that he was nearly hooked, adding “By Jove, I
was spoony on that girl.
* * *
The bowling-clubs which are gradually
annexing and fencing off as private reserves por-
tions of the Sydney public parks, consist almost
exclusively of fat personages of 45 or over, arrayed
in broadcloth. Almost every bowler is a J.P.
and an alderman, belongs to several lodges, suffers
from fatty degeneration and liver disease, breathes
stertorously, and goes down on one knee with
great caution lest something burst. From all of
which it may be concluded that he is a man of
great influence and much respected, and entitled
to rob the common public of its pleasure-grounds.
# # *
The fat lady, whose giddiness in a stage-
box has paralysed the actors at a Sydney theatre
on more than one occasion, is hereby informed
that a flash-light photo, of her dalliance with the
small gentleman whom she so completely eclipses
is being circulated in stage-land. Now they want
a phonograph record of their sugared nothings to
be reeled off while the photo, is thrown on the
lime-lit screen ! What a sensation it would
make at Pint Pots.
* * *
We read in a Sydney daily that “ Admiral
Lord Charles Soott and Lady Charles Scott are
at present the guests of the Governor of New Zea-
land at Hobart.” This reads as if it had been
copied from a “ well informed ” English paper.
Mrs. Wood (Essie Jenyns) is having one
of her sisters trained for the stage in England,
and expects her to make a big success. The Woods
live in great style in Onslow-square, London.
They also own a big steam yacht, in which they
intend to make a trip in the Mediterranean.
Plain Bill Holloway is located at Bedford Park,
where there is a little coterie of dramatic and
musical people. He keeps hospitable house.
# # *
Lady Rosebery, leaves her lord the
solatium of three quarters of a million, a bit of a
bite even out of the hundred millions of the
Rothschildren. Their proper name is Bauer,
which Anselm Rothschild, founder of the fortunes,
at Frankfort, changed to Rothschild, on taking
the sign of the Red Shield.
The Czar has ordered that no Jew is to be
converted without his whole family—that there
is to be no Rothschildisrn or Roseberyism within
his dominions. Apropos, would the Jewish reli-
gious authorities have accorded to the clay of a
poor Jewess who had married a poor man not of
her faith, and whose children were being edu-
cated as Christians, the same consideration as was
given to the remains of Hannah, Countess of
Rosebery ? From the standpoint of lineage, it is
interesting to observe, the Rothschilds are a set
of nobodies.
* * *
It is cabled that Dr. Rudolf Virchow, the
great German anatomist, has made 21 post-mortem
examinations of subjects inoculated with Dr.
Koch’s lymph for the cure of consumption. The
result of his examination was the discovery that
the inoculation generated a new affection. Out of
the frying-pan into the fire, apparently ! How-
ever, this does not quite settle the question, as
the jealousies of doctors are almost as intense as
those of musicians,
* * *
Who is to ride that costly white elephant,
the Sydney Centennial Hall organ? The Bulle-
tin fully expects the settlement of this question
to be attended by some assassinations and a large
number of slander-actions among the long-haired
profession. How these people do hate one
another ! O deadly malignity and cat-like spite,
thy other name is the Musical Profession !
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — I am a little woman, not
stout, neither am I lovely, but I am accustomed
to demand and receive (except from women) com-
mon courtesy. To be brief, the other morning I
hailed an omnibus with a view of travelling
therein down William-street, Sydney. The driver
pulled up and I looked in. “Eleven here
already ! ” “ Surely there’s room for me.” But no,
with a fat laugh, a vulgar old man remarked,
“ Full inside ! ” I looked at his double chin and
could believe that he spoke truly. A lady (with
two children who took up four seats, and were, I
am convinced, unpaid for) exclaimed : “ If this
omnibus does not go on I shall report it” —while
two overdressed young females kindly assured me
THE MARGIN OF SAFETY.
THE OLD LADY: “Will that log be safe
enough for me to cross on, sonny? ”
Small BOY : “Oh, yes, mum; I think so! We
have just tried it by drivin’ over a bullock-
team.
that there was another ’bus in ten minutes. Off
went the vehicle, leaving me standing in the road
—when lo ! from around the corner, raced a man
of God —no less a personage than Primate “Saw
Mariz ” Smith, who wildly waved his umbrella at
my departing ’bus. Judge of my surprise when
that very omnibus stopped, the door was flung
open, and loud, joyous voices were heard. “Come
in, my Lord, PLENTY of room ! ” I advanced
nearer to the ’bus, and then I saw the “lady”
with the children hastily take one on her knee
and plant the other on the floor, the two young
ladies gathered up their parcels and “made
.room” between themselves for “my Lord,” who
smiled his one-cornered smile as betook his seat. —
Yours, Amelia Skelton. [This is probably quite
true. Women adore the clergy and hope to go to
Heaven, but they will never go there on account
of the politeness they show to one another.
Ed. B.]
# * *
Melbourne Age prints six inches of florid
description of an oaken staircase and central hall,
manufactured for C. H. James, the Father of the
Land Boom, and ex-patron of Harold Sparks,
Esq., J.P. :
A certain Australian Chief Justice never
forgives a man who “sees him home” after a
“wet night ”at the club. This was the fate of a
certain daily newspaper editor, who arriving from
Scotia,- a sucking barrister and raw new-chum,
naturally laid himself out to sit at the feet of the
C. J. At last there came an evil night, when after
innumerable toasts and pledges of mutual affec-
tion, the editor offered to see His Honor home.
His Honor declined, but the editor insisted, and
as he was not in the humour for argument, the
learned judge had finally to yield. Since then,
however, the Judge has indulged in a fierce
antipathy to his would-be preserver, whose ever-
slender prospects at the Bar are now slenderer
than ever. Another proof of the truth of the
adage : “Let sleeping dogs lie! ”
* * *
Under the dreadfully tiring heading of
“ What a Woman can do ” we are told that “ She
can laugh with her lips—make a man think she is
the merriest cricket in the world —while her eyes
are full of unshed tears and her heart beating as
if it would burst.” We are prepared to believe
that a woman can do all that lot, nearly as well as
a man can. The male party does it oftener, how-
ever. But, no matter. What a woman can
do best is to cry with her eyes—make her hus-
band think she is the miserablest victim in crea-
tion —while her lips are itching with unspoken
jeers and her sides shaking as if they would
explode. There, now !
* * *
A man recently picked up a gaudy garter
on the stairs of a theatre which he unthinkingly
thrust in his pocket. Next morning on waking-
up late with a somewhat large head, he found
a note pinned to the vacant pillow that lay next
his own, on which lay the garter. It simply
said : “At last I have found you out. Why don’t
you go to her altogether, the shameless hussy ?
Off to mother’s.”
* * *
The engagement of Captain Anstruther
Thomson, Kintore’s aide, hinted at by The
Bulletin awhile ago, is confirmed. Miss Ten-
nant, the prospective bride, is a daughter of
Andrew Tennant, one of the wealthiest squatters
[n S. Australia. The pair will go to England
immediately after their marriage, Captain Thom-
son resuming active duty with his regiment.
* * *
For straightforward libel-talking it is
difficult to beat a Melbourne insurance-office clerk
the day after a big fire.
* * *
The sudden and unexpected return to
Sydney a few weeks since of a lady—who caused
some sensation two years ago —may lead to poli-
tical complications.
Governor Kintore doesn’t know what to
do about his projected Transcontinental trip. His
friends advise him to abandon it quietly, but the
S. A. Governor says he is not going to be jibed at
by the “comic” papers, although he is heartily
sick of the whole business. Dr. Stirling, a
South Australian medico, is willing to go, but the
difficulty about saddling the expenses on to the
Government still has to be surmounted. “ Alger-
non” now wishes he had stuck to driving railway-
engines.
* * *
Sydney Allen Ward, Esq., alias “Lord
Wilshire,” now of Darlinghurst Gaol, does a grave
injustice to the British aristocracy by pretending
to be a titled patrician, inasmuch as the ranks of
“our old can already boast of a full
share of the thieves of the world, and needs no
reinforcement from outside quarters. But per-
haps we are doing the prisoner an injustice ; he
may really be a lord who masquerades at times as
plain Mr. Ward—so that the Australian nation
may not suspect him of being a sneak-thief.
* # *
Dear Bulletin,- — Some months ago the
editor of London Tit Bits stated in his pirate-
paper that he had sent me a clock on the ground
that he wished to formally recognise me as the
champion liar—this graceful compliment being*
awarded on account of an alligator-story which S
had written for The Bulletin, and which he haei
afterwards conveyed to the columns of his paper
in his peculiarly unholy way. I have never since
heard anything of that clock; unless it comes
soon I shall send the man of scissors a hatchet con-
ferring upon him the double distinction of cham-
pion liar and pirate king.— George Washington.
There is always an unpleasant social itch-
ing to emulate the stage, as, for instance, in
fashionable Melbourne tableaux last week, when
the beautiful ones appeared in familiar —very
familiar scenes from “ Hero and Leander. The
scandal in Vienna, a few years ago, was when the
fine ladies went as models to the painter Makart,
for his Yenuses, and so on.
* * #
What gay old dogs those Stipendiaries are !
According to the daily press, Mr. A. M. Fisher
on taking his seat on the bench at Sydney Water
Police Court after an absence of many months,
“ expressed his pleasure at his return to pleasant
old associations!” Shortly before Mr. Fisher
went on leave, a determined-looking lady on being
treated by him to a six months’ seclusion, ob-
served : “You crimson old cow, may you be
struck stiff before I came out again ! ” This is a
sample of the average Stipendiary’s “ pleasant
associations,” which, as a rule, are about on a level
with Job’s physical afflictions.
* * *
For delicate suggestiveness the following
Nooze gem will be very hard to beat :
T T ANDSOME young Widow, educated and engaging,
wishes correspond with Gentleman view mutual
understanding. Evening News.
She might have added : “ Marriage no object."
# # #
The only instance on* record where a
Mayor of Sydney went to Europe during his term
of office was in 1809, when Charles Moore visited
England on business. lie resigned on going away,
and Mr. Walter Benny was elected for the re-
mainder of the term.
# * #
Kitty Shea fifty years old ! What a
tooth ! Now we put it to a jury of Mrs. Grundy,
Judge Water-Jug Foster, Mr. Gimlet, Mr.
Ebenezer Vickery, Mr. Varley, Mr. E. J.
H. Knapp, Mr. Gladstone, Rev. Editor Fitehett,
Sir H. Parkes (with his stern, unforgiving and,
as Captain Absolute said of his father, d
disinheriting countenance), Bishop Goe, and two
other Melbourne bishops with only one wife and
no children apiece, Duncan Gillies, Mrs. Harrison
Lee, the Chairwoman of the Lying In Hospital,
and the charwoman, as to whether Parnell is nqt
truly generous in sticking to her. Why he’s a per-
fect Barney O’Hea. “Don’t let Nelly starve,”
said Charles 11., and Kitty shan’t starve, even if
she don’t marry again, with 50 thou. The most
famous of the Gunnings was beautiful long after
50, when the Duke of Argyle clutched her instead
of the Duke of Hamilton. No, we are not getting
too warm, because it was strictly legal, the first
wedding with the curtain-ring at midnight, and
the second O. K’er. As warm as you like, says
Mrs. G., so long as there has been the bell, book
and candle, Mendelssohn’s Wedding March, the
voice tiiat breathed o’er Eden, and a proper
regard for the securities.
A bright and shining intellect which runs
a certain small penny shriek in London has
started an art-union in which the leading prize is
a good-looking lady—the same to be married to
the winner at the cost of the paper, and the
joyous pair to receive an annuity of £lOO a year
afterwards. How the lady will feel when she is
given away to the bow-legged dwarf who can’t
read is a point which is left unexplained ; and
how he will express himself when he conies to take
delivery of his seraph and finds an elderly spinster
with goggles, and what they will both remark
when the paper bursts and stops the annuity, and
who will pay the divorce expenses, and the awful
way they 'will curse the editor afterwards, are
things that had better not be inquired into.
* * #
The ship Sobraon, which will probably be
purchased as a reformatory training-ship by the
N.S.W. Government, has brought to Australia
more consumptives, and has buried more con-
sumptives at sea, than, perhaps, any vessel that
ever sailed the ocean. Than her gallant captain
,no cemetery chaplain is better acquainted with
the burial-service.
# * *
Minister Carruthers is taking steps to
extend more widely the teaching of elementary
cookery in N.S.W. State schools. As a cookery-
certificate is ten thousand times more effective
than a marriage-certificate in enabling a woman
to maintain a firm grip of the affections of her
lord, the wisdom of the Ministerial step cannot be
impugned. It might even be well for the Minister
to provide such instruction for men. Where is
the digger who, when he first began to cook, did
not put his cabbage into cold instead of into boil-
ing water, and feel quite surprised to find that
the longer the greens were boiled the harder they
got?
* * #
The stout person of Potts Point—the lady
who sends out a search expedition in quest of her
lost “ h,” and who perspires violently in society—
will doubtless be pleased to learn that Lady
“ Jarsey ” comes of the noble family of the
Leighs, a race which struck a great patch two
generations ago, and stuck to it nobly ever after-
Should this meet the eye
Of a greedless toiler,
He will heave a sigh
Fit to burst his boiler,
And otherwise pass remarks
On a recent rare case
Associating Sparks
With this oaken staircase.
While the poor unknown
Working are and sleeping,
What he has not sown
C. H. James is reaping—
Mansion at Toorak
Full of very grand rooms,
Money by the sack,
All made of land-booms.
Why should mortals pass
Years in toil distressful,
When the men of brass
Are the most successful ?
O, why pursue a trade
Or study people’s feelings,
When fortunes can be made
In dummy landsale dealings ?


BITE
made ready for use. Try on 1 ’
improved Fish _ Traps. We have an immense
assortment of Lines (samples sent). Every kind
Hook, Bait*, Floats, Flies, Reels, etc. A
splendid assortment of Fishing Rods. A small
parcel of Tackle can be sent by post. We have
every requisite for fishing. EASTWAY BROS.,
411 George-street, Sydney.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps-look for £1 orders.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stimulates the hair to a
vigorous growth. It contains all that can be
supplied to make the hair beautiful and abun-
dant, removes dandruff, and renders the hair
flexible and glossy.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
Give the London and Sydney Tea Co. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Tea in 201b. and 401b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. _ This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which should be a guarantee that clients will
be" fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., Kiug-st. Arcade
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Fortune for a few ])Ounds. —Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W. J. Douglas,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
To cure skin diseases. —Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, x>imples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every-
where.
JJ u C H A N A N’S
“HOUSE OP COMMONS” WHISKY.
HIGHEST AWARD ; Paris International
Exhibition, 1889.
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers - - 70 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
property, and collected the rents for a good many
years without any heir turning up.
some unknown reason it; appom Meal par,son
mrentJyforgot al about t" e land and the humble
man 'of Gof who was looking after it and that
gentleman silently spread himself over■ the whole
Assets of the extinct family and assimilated tne
lot He hung on to it with a quiet, unobtrusive
vigour from that date, and tacked the old name
,f t 0 |)j s own : and then his son either lent
money to somebody, or voted hard for something
—anyhow, lie was made a lord, and the clergy-
man’s descendants have boomed ever since. Die
old prayerful progenitor gave them then fust
providence, which keeps the nation
green to feed them and the rest of the British
aristocracy, has looked after them m a liberal
way and kept their bank-account always flounsh-
* * *
The Salvation Army has struck a new
idea. The hallelujah maidens go round in twos
and jerk the bell of the unconverted, and when
the door is opened thev request permission to come
in and pray for the blinded child of wrath who
lives within. Now and then some nervous female
is so badly stunned at the apparition in the poke
bonnet that she allows the pair to run her into her
own drawing-room, and clear the decks for action.
Then they hack her into a chair, and close the
door, and the first one asks her in a hollow voice
if she is prepared for death. Generally she replies
in a state of terror that she is, and the other
visitor remarks in a sepulchral tone that many
have been deceived, and that hell is an awful place.
After these short, weird statements they read a
chapter jointly, and then they shake the house
with a hymn, and finally they both wrestle in
prayer. The service lasts about an hour altogether,
and when it is finished the two visitors again
admonish their hostess with some more stern
observations about hell and give her a tract in
which it is set fortli that the devil goes about
covered with a horny incrustation like glue and
blackbeetles. Finally they depart, leaving her
much refreshed in soul.
Miss May Jordan declares that there are
work-girls in Brisbane keeping themselves on 10s.
a week. Lots of Sydney ballet-girls fatten, and
wear expensive clothing and high-heeled French
shoes and silk stockings, on the money. How do
the Brisbane girls do it?
* * *
It costs only £5 10s. to make a ton of
Queensland sugar. This includes labour, interest,
manufacturing—everything. Then the middleman
runs the cost to the consumer up to £22.
# * *
Chief Justice Way and Mayor Midas
Burdekin are racing home for baronetcies. The
question is ; Will her Gracious grant two Austra-
lian baronetcies in one year ? If not, The Bul-
letin will back the South Australian who carries
a big Bible under his arm.
# * *
A member of the Victorian Council has
recently had one eye removed by the doctors, who
are uncertain whether they may not have to
adopt the same process with the other. The
patient contracted a mysterious eye-disease by
using a hotel towel, and this is the result. There
is no place like home.
There are a good many ways to make
money. One of them is to be a fasting man in a
cheap show; and another is to run a cannibal
expedition in Africa, and eat the astonished
native girl, and then come back and lecture about
the performance; and a third is to be a land-
boomer and sell an inaccessible mountain top to a
building society. But a lady in Maoriland has
improved on these old methods considerably. She
published an advertisement setting forth that a
dark-haired and truly affectionate maiden of 18,
with bright eyes and a private income, desired to
make the acquaintance of a good-looking gentle-
man for the usual purpose, and 22 individuals at
once concluded that she was some wealthy
squatter’s daughter who wanted to elope, and
wrote stating that they were the sort of person
enquired after. Then she sent them all a photo,
of an angel with a rosebud mouth, and asked for
enough money to pay her passage to town, as her
property was still in the hands of her trustees.
Ten of the crowd backed out of this crisis, but the
other twelve sent the coin and made twelve
separate appointments at the railway-station,
where, unhappily, the dark-haired creature with
the large private income altogether failed to turn
up. In fact, she never turned up, but enquiries
being made at the Post-office to which the money
had been sent, it transpired that the orders had
all been cashed by an elderly person with a coun-
tenance like a hidden crime, and that she had
promptly left the district with the loot. The
story closes just here.
The Melbourne Blade denounces Parnell
in scathing terms as “that infatuated Pon.pey
who has wrecked all interests for his modern
Cleopatra.’ - Anyone who remembers how
Poinpey burst rip the army of William 111. on
the plains of Gibraltar and then eloped with the
aunt of Daniel O’Connell will at once realise the
vastness of the metaphor.
* # *
It will interest many Australians to learn
that the Savage Club, London, is on the verge of
bankruptcy. It owes nearly £2OOO, and has
nothing to pay with. A whip amongst the mem-
bers, says a Bulletin correspondent, has been
resorted to, but so far only £5OO has been sub-
scribed, of which Bronson Howard gave £5O, and
Louis (Torpedo) Brennan £2O. It is quite on the
cards that the club may have to be wound up or
reconstituted. The number of members lias been
increased to GOO, and the qualification test has
been stretched most dangerously, in fact, many
men have boon elected recently whose claims to
membership would have been scouted five years
ago. The Club bus, in fact, lost a great deal of its
prestige, and the honour of being a Savage is no
longer so anxiously sought for. The Hou. Secretary,
E. J. Wade (Sub-Librarian of the India office),
has done much to injure the Club by his arrogance
and tactlessness. The change from the old dingy
quarters in the Savoy to a swagger club-house, on
Adelphi Terrace has not answered with the
Savages. Bohemianism does not flourish in the
glare of the electric-light.
# * *
Ladies will, it has been decided, in future
carry round the pewter cash-trays in some Vic-
torian churches. That the ladies will be young
and attractive ra sansdire. And yet. most of the
clergy who are about to enlist the aid of women
as cadgers would probably object to our being
served with a glass of beer by a pretty barmaid.
A happy New Year, Hebe !
# & #
One of the puzzles to your average colonial
Robert, or Mike X 41.1, is that Highland costumes
appear to be permitted by law, “ bekase, look ye,
they ain’t by no manes dacent.” A Melbourne
semi-literary man has become Highlander for this
summer, and appeared with bare legs amid the
ladies in the local Athenaeum the other day.
And yet a long-haired apostle was locked up, not
long ago, in Melbourne, for going about with bare
feet!
* * *
Several more cases of snake-bite have
during the last few weeks been successfully
“THE END OF A BIG PROSECUTION.”
A JUROR: “We wanted to he home for Christmas. About six o’clock on Christmas
morning wo started arguing the case again. The foreman, Pat. Cullen, was the only one
that held out. No argument could move him, and he prayed for Divine guidance.”— Daily
paper.
JURY ROOM
treated on the Muellerian system of sub-
cutaneously injecting strychnia. The Bulletin
trusts that when the efficacy of the new remedy
shall have been thoroughly established, some-
thing substantial will be done to recognise Dr.
Mueller’s great discovery.
# * *
Hell hath no fury like a woman corned.--
Bulletin version.
# * *
The Corps of Young Lady Guides, in
London, has been broken up. The Corps was a
scheme for providing employment for educated
but poor young ladies, who were to go round the
Lions, with visitors, as cicerones. As Lord
Houghton said of Gladstone, they knew mankind,
but not man—wherefore they wouldn’t do.
* * *
A droll agitation is being roused to
abolish the Miss, as applied to old maids, and call
them Mrs., a title which they claim by right, on
Old English principles. Up to this time last
century girls became entitled to the Mrs. when
they were marriageable, and the invidious name
of Miss did not apply after schooldays, where-
fore the familiar Mistress, in the old comedies
and novels. Men have an unfair advantage, for
why shouldn’t the old bachelor he Master V The
agitation may be regarded as the antipodes of that
for compelling married men to wear a wedding-
ring' *
Spagnoletti : —“ In Melbourne Public
Library, the other day, I turned up a French
novel by Celeste de Chabrillan, the famed Celeste
Mogador, who came here as wife of the first French
Consul. Not bad, either, and no high kicking in
it such as she vised to treat the Gay Mabille to.
in her circus-riding days. Here she ‘came the
modest,’ and behaved as eich, but Mrs. tr.
hounded her out,”
* * *
A man, commenting on the lengthy ad.
of a life-insurance agent in the form of a letter to
the Melbourne Age, makes three pertinent obser-
vations—(l) No man should permit the members
of his family to lead a dolce far niente existence,
but should put them in the way of supporting
themselves when he is gone. (2) In order that
one family may benefit by an insurance policy,
other families have to go without their tucker.
(3) The frantic exertions of the insured to main-
tain his policy paid up vitiate his constitution and
impair his health, and therefore that of his
offspring, which is a social evil.
# * #
The Adelaide authorities would not allow
the British art gallery to be open during church
hours on Christmas Day ! After this, no more
proof need he adduced that the clergy rule the
roost in the holy city.
# « *
J. C. Fergusson, who has been in the S.A.
Government service for 41 years, and was recently
retrenched, now takes the billet of Clerk of
Adelaide Police Court, &c., at the munificent
salary of £2BO per annum ! Hardly any S.A.
Government position is worth £5OO per annum
now.
* * #
Mr, “Bob” Smith, of five firm of Norton,
Smith and Westgarth, who acts as N.S.W.
Crown Solicitor during the absence on leave of Mr.
John Williams, is essentially a martinet, without
the genial ways of Mr. Williams, and his rule is
being severely felt in the Department.
# * *
A British scientist states that “ English-
men, when they settle in Australia, get a peculiar
roughness about the hair and beard that they
rarely have at homo, but which is typical of the
Australian aborigine.” Any girl whom Parkes
has breathed upon at short range will endorse this
assertion.
* * *
The last idea in dress reform is that male
and female attire should be practically assimi-
lated. The coming female is to wear her hair cut
short, to clump about in laced boots, and carry a
stick, and to have a small felt hat planted on the
back of her head. Also, she is to carry a tail coat,
and, in fact, the only distinguishing feature about
her costume is to be an exceedingly abbreviated
skirt descending over a divided garment which
will be pants in all but the name. The inventor
of this costume made her first appearance in the
streets of Paris, and after half-an-hour’s exhibition
she fled to a place of safety in a cab.
# * *
Afternoon calls are made after nightfall in
Brisbane, during the hot weather. They present
some novel features. The male creature is more
frequently present, and baby is conspicuous by its
absence.
* * *
Mournful is the appeal of a bank-clerk in
one of the Melbourne papers last week, for more
money. There is the visual cant about being
driven to embezzlement, but, then, the worst-paid
of the clerks get as much as working-men bring
up large 1 families u'pon'. F. Gr. Smith, the Bible-
faced National Bank manager, has argued that
the prizes in his shop are numerous; that is
Abraham Lincoln over again, when the latter said
to tho_ despairing father of hungry boys ; “ My
dear sir, there is always plenty of room at the
top.”
» # *
Two lines from recent advertisements :
“ In Darkest Africa,” by H. M. Stanley, D.0.L., LL.D.,
.&c., &c.
“ Asolando, - ’ by Robert Browning.
What dignity there is in the hall-mark of the
scholard ! Are you listening, Baronet Clarke,
LL.D. ? The whole paltry business reminds us
of manly old Carlyle’s refusal to take a degree
from a certain university. Said he—
That you should ask mo to join in leading your long
line'of D.D.’s and LL.D.’s, a line of pompous little
fellows, hobbling down to posterity on the crutches of
two or three letters of the alphabet, passing on into the
oblivioirof all Universities and small potatoes, is more
than I can bear.
# * #
The newspapers are insinuating that the
absconding banker Bennett wilfully charged a
married woman to whom he overpaid £lOO with
stealing the amount when no such amount was
overpaid. The fact is, however, that the woman
did get the £lOO, but denied that she knew of it.
* * *
The Hobart boy who was sent to gaol for
14 days’ hard labour for using “insulting
language ” to two constables, has been released.
It was not made apparent that the lad used any
expressions that were improper or unclean. Most
policemen are too dignified to live. We hope their
wives thrash them soundly ; other folks dare not
look at them.
* * *
Among the recent cable assertions of the
daily press the most prominent was the statement
that the Bishop of Killaloe had been shot at in
his own house because he opposed Parnell, fol-
lowed immediately afterwards by the other state-
ment that he hadn’t been shot at, and apparently
lie hadn’t opposed Parnell. Also there was a long
telegram announcing that Lady Jersey was ill, and
another stating that she was quite well, and a
third saying that she had undergone a serious
operation, and a fourth saying that she hadn’t
undergone any operation, and a final one an-
nouncing that she was residing at a certain place
in Lancashire —only the place happened to be in
Lanarkshire. And in addition there was a
thrilling announcement that the German Em-
peror was going to Paris, and that the French
Government wanted him to stay away, and that
the French Government had announced that it
didn’t care whether he stayed away or not, and
that the French Government hadn't said anything
about it, and that the German Emperor wasn’t
going in any case.
# * #
.Rudyard Kipling is engaged to marry a
Yankee widow, it is said.
The Parisians say that Parnell has merely
broken the Britishers’ eleventh commandment,
which is ; “ Thou shalt not be found out.”
Angus Cameron’s temporary appointment
as a clerk of works in the N.S.W. Public Works
Department reminds us of the time when Angus
said that his ambition was “ an (adjective) good
police-magistracy. ”
The Prince of Wales has stated that the
correct hour for dining is at eight. Over three
millions of the pauper English subjects of the
Prince of Wales’ mother say that the right hour
to dine is whenever you’ve got a dinner.
It is said that two of the Leigh family
visited Australia years ago and became so hard-up
that they were obliged to follow the humble but
useful callings of boots and water-carter at a
Queenscliff hotel.


Amusements.
OYOLORAM -A..
Tl»e Buttle of Gettysburg.
Just added, New and Wonderful Effects: —Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Bain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyolorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
JAPANESE & INDIAN SHOW-ROOMS,
335 George Street, Sydney. 335
(Next Elvy’s Music Warehouse).
Inspection Invited.
Japanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China, Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s 1
Miss JanetAohureh’s, Mrs. Brown-Potter’s and Mr. Bellew’s
Photos.
A. DOMKE A CO., 325 George-st., Sydney.
Government
h
Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, 14th January, 1891.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21.
Construction, &0., of Railway Bridges, Leicester
and Wilson Creeks, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Construction of Ist Section Lismore-Tweed Rail-
way
Erection of Courthouse, Hay
Landing Stage &e., at Men indie (fresh tenders).
Extension of Admiralty Wharf, Woolloomooloo
Construction of Punt for Mouth of Bega River
Erection of Wharf, Seven Oaks, Macleay River
Supply of Anchors, Chains, &c.. Department of
Public Works, 1891. Fresh tenders. £2O
deposit
Re-covering Roof Lightkeeper’s Quarters, Hornby
Lighthouse (fresh tenders)
Erection of Sergeant-Major’s Quarters, Chowder
Bay (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
Bridge, Bogan River, road Bourke to Brewarrina
(fresh tenders)
Bridge, in approach to Elderslie Bridge, Hunter
River
Bridge, Mickie’s Creek, road Cobargo to Ber-
magui
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for Nymboy
River at Nymboyda (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18.
Contract No. 64 Sydney Sewerage, Construction
of Aqueducts in connection with Main Out-
fall Sewer, Western Suburbs
Construction of Tramway from present terminus
of the North Shore Cable Tramway to Lane
Cove-road.
Additions, Shaftesbury Reformatory
Erection of Superstructure, New Central Police
Court
New Superstructure Bridge, Manila River, at
Barraba
Bridge, Burrowa River, at Burrowa (fresh
tenders)
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4.
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Cowra—contract No. 1,
Supply of Ironwork ; contract No. 2, Erection.
(Alternative tenders at schedule rates will be
received for Sections Nos. 1 and 2 in one con-
tract).
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 31st December, 1890.
O T I 0 E.
POSTAGE-DUE STAMPS.
It is hereby notified for general information,
that on and after the Ist January, 1891, any Post-
master or other-Postal official who_ shall receive
payment of postage due on insufficiently prepaid
or re-directed correspondence will be required,
immediately upon collection of the sum charged
and before delivery of the article, to affix to the
cover thereof Postage-due Stamps equivalent in
value to the amount so collected, and after affix-
ing such stamps to cancel same either with the
office date stamp, or in such other manner as will
prevent their being again used.
The public are respectfully requested to assist
in the carrying out of this regulation, and at the
same time protect themselves against the levying
of any improper charge, by insisting upon the
necessary stamps being affixed to the covers of
taxed articles which they receive through the post
immediately upon payment of the charge, and to
report to this office any neglect on the part of an
official to do so.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Miscellaneous.
In the matter of the Companies’ Act, and in the
matter of the Federated Squatters and
Farmers’ Co-operative Association of Austra-
lasia, Limited (in Liquidation.)
THE CREDITORS of the above-named Com-
pany are required on or before the 16th day
of February, 1891, to send their names and
addresses and the particulars of their debts or
claims, and the names and addresses of their
solicitors in Sydney (if any) to CHARLES
TIMOTHY STARKEY, Esquire, of Empire
Buildings, York-street, Sydney, the Official
Liquidator of the said Company, and if so re-
quired by notice in writing from the said Official
Liquidator are lay their solicitors to come in and
prove their said debts or claims at the Chambers
of the Master-in-Equity, in Chancery-square,
King-street, Sydney, at such time as shall be
specified in such notice, or in default thereof, they
will be excluded from the benefit of any distribu-
tion made before such debts are proved.
Bated this ninth day of January, 1891.
H. F. BARTON.
Master-in -Equity.
Furniture, etc.
B
LAWLERS
Patent Folding Portable Waterproof
TENT.
(Patented October, 1890.)
Suitable for Railway Navvies, Miners, Free
Selectors, Fishermen, and Surveyors,
WHAT WE CLAIM FOR IT:—
Ist—A Waterproof Tent without Poles, Pegs
or Ropes.
2nd —A Stump, French, or Half-tester Bedstead,
with spring mattress.
3rd—A Dining or Card Table to seat eight
persons.
4th—-A Spring Reclining Sofa, with back and
head rest. ,
It is made throughout of light American wood
(nicely varnished) and woven wire, covered all
o ver with strong waterproof duck.
There are no handles or other tools required to
fix it. It can be erected by a lady or boy in two
minutes ; when folded up for transit it weighs
lOOlbs., and measures 6ft. 2in. in length and Sin.
in depth, and can be made any width.
Shown as a Half-Tester Bedstead.
'hi >}, I
With Mosquito Curtain.
Lawler’s
FOLDING STUMP BEDSTEAD,
With Wire Spring Mattress to form a
Table and Sofa,
PRICE 255.
nMnmn»>nniH!l
Shown as a Stump Bedstead.
Patented October, 1890.
Suitable for Railway Navvies, Miners, Free
Selectors, Fishermen, and Surveyors.
WHAT WE CLAIM FOR IT
A Stump French Bedstead, with spring mattress.
A Dining or Card Table to suit eight persons.
A Spring Reclining Sofa, with back and head rest.
It is made throughout of light American wood
(nicely varnished) and woven wire.
Shown as a Spring Sofa.
2ft Sin 2ft 6in 3ft 4ft Sin
Price for frame only 25s SOs 33s 40s
~ cushion & pillow 10s 10s 15s 20s
Price complete as above 35s 40s 48s SOs
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
Manufacturers and Patentees,
60S George Street,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
gARRICK THEATRE-
Oastlereagh Street, between King & Market Streets.
Proprietors & Managers, F. E. Hiscocks & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer .... W. T. Smythe.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS ! BRILLIANT SUCCESS 1
of
Mr. Chas. Cartwright 2c Miss Olga Nethersole
in Henry Arthur Jones’ production of
‘THE MiIDDLEMIA-KT.
Produced under the direction of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner & Co.
PRICES—Ss., 45., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse, George Street.
Doors Open, 7 p.m. Curtain, 8 sharp.
Tickets for all parts at Garrick Hotel, adjoiningTheatre.
Manager for W. G. & Co., Mr. L. F. Nethersole.
Absolutely NO FREE LlST— Press Alone Excepted.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 7.45. Carriages at 10.40.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS. TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
OUR GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
Special Engagement of
MISS MAGGIE MOORE I*
(Mrs. J. 0. Williamson), as
OICK.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
Acting Manager Mr. H. J. Magee.
Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in a New and Original Play, entitled,
HARVEST. HARVEST.
The Play produced under the Sole Direction of
Mr. BOUCIOAULT.
Prices— ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
■TIH E A T R E ROYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVB.
To-Night and Every Evening at 7.30,
Gorgeous Operatic, Comic, Spectacular Pantomime
“ C I 3XT D E R ELL A.”
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
g o N D I AQUARIUM.
Lessee and Manager .... ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission, Is. ; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate— Fare, 4d.
Fred. 18. KTorton & Co.,
General Theatrical and Variety Agents,
7 Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth &, Castlereagh-sts.
Third Floor—Take the Elevator.
Garden Parties, Children’s Festivities, Pete’s, Galas,
Social Gatherings, Coming of Age, Political Banquets, &c.,
provided with Every Description of Amusement and
Novelties. Distance no object. The whole Entertainment
or One Item can be provided. Dramatic, Variety and
Musical Artistes are invited to register their names.
Ladies and Gentlemen instructed for the stage. The
Amusements at Camden Park Estate Garden Party on
Saturday last were provided by this agency. Office hours.
10.30 till 4.
QAI E T Y THEATRE.
Professor Anderson.
GRAND SUCCESS. TO-NIGHT,
THE GREAT WIZARD OF THE NORTH’S
Great Holiday Programme Continued.
The Haunted Pavilion ! Dark Deeds of Dr. Faustus !
A Murderous Scene Enacted! The Awful Voice from
the Grave ! A Lady Stabbed 1
Mdlle. Blanche Anderson as the Mysterious Vision.
Admission—Bs, 2s, and Is. Reserved seats Is extra at
Nicholson’s.
QOO G E E P ALA C E A QUAKIUM.
Lessee .... ... Wm. Larmoue.
If visitors leave Sydney without seeing COOGEE and its
PALACE AQUARIUM, they will have missed the choicest,
loveliest and most charming spot in Australia.
There is only One Coogee In Australia!
Come and breathe its healthy air, and see the 1001 attra-
tions in its enchanting Aquarium.
Immense Holiday Attractions.
mHE NOAH’S ARK ! Gilbert J. Smith,
* Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs, Historical and Fanojf Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc.
Grease, Paints arid Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
(IiIf.BEICT ,1. SUM’II. Theatrical Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
297 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE HAMMOND TYPEWRITER.
11 Universal.’
2 Keyboards.
CO Keys, 90 characters
35 Styles Type.
SPEED, the Highest.
Alignment, Perfect.
FIRST PRIZES in all late contests for
“Best” and “Fancy” Work.
75 HAMMOND’S purchased by U.S. Government
in a Single Order.
D. B. THCOMAS,
Sole Agent,
5S Elizabeth-st.« Melb. 75 tlarence-st., Sydney.
Also Sole Agent for
Amber? Cabinet Letter File A Automatic Letter Press
Furniture, &c.
and^lamb.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
FULLSUITES for DINING-ROOM—SIDE-
BOARD, MNNER WAGGON, TABLE,
EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
1ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
This ohair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
30s.; without Stand, 25s.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
|RAWIN G-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
D
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
LETTER FILING CABINETS (Amberg’s)
all letters found instantly : no endorsing or
indexing.
h
DR A WIN G-ROOM
CABINETS.
, Eakly English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
h
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks, Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles forthe Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
JgOARD-ROOM TABLES7aII sizes.
“DEVOLVING OFFICE
XAj Adjustable Spring Backs.
E _ NCLOSED OFFICE WASH STANDS and
FITTINGS.
h
'"RON SAFES,
Various Sizes.
Newton and Lamb,
Spring & O’Connell
Streets.
-4
BED STEADS, all siz
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding • All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb,
h
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
('iHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
j 10s. ; Dining Tables, from 205.; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
N
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
& BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Wolfe’s Schnapps— It is errand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Buy Wolf e’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney. ,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade.
PURE *«» OLD
AUSTRALIAN
W ines.
SPECIALITIES:
CLARET and HOCK.
CALDWELL & CO.,
Melbourne,
AMD
Lake Albert Vineyard, Wagga Wagga, II.S.'V
“FAIR PLAY’S”
-Handicap
io
each
25,000
IO
each
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
Divided
Divided
.. 5000
.. 1500
.. 1000
.. 1000
.. 1000
20 at 50 each ... 1000
25 at 20 eacli ... 500
100 at 10 each ... 1000
100 at 5 eacii ... 600
2-15 EXTRA 245
Address—
“ FAT II PLAY,”
Care of PH IN THOMPSON,
93 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Original Promoter!
-A.DOA.aVX EE3DE.”
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP.
4000 At 10 eacli 4000
h
Divided ... 150
Divided ;jOO
30 at 10 each 300
70 at 5 each 860
100 -EXTRA— IOO
the only fair way of drawing.
Also Open,
KTewmarket Handicap
4-000 At 10 each 4000
, ~ Same division as Anniversary.
Address -
“Adam Bcdc,” o/o If. N. Abbott,
post Office i 'hampers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Tlie irtoad. to Fortune !
Experience teaches us that one of the safest investments to be got is land close to large centre B
mVA°rr A ° n ’i ,xmgllt at low rafceH - Such a chance now presents itself in WESTERN AUS-
aUuittWr , buying land there now will reap the same benefits as the early buyers of
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE have done. We have SPLENDID BUILDING SITES at PERTH
from £lseach, Gil Y BLOCKS for £25, on very easy terms. Also, ALLOTMENTS and BLOCKS
at AljbAiN Y from £lO each, £1 deposit and a few shillings a week will meet the payments. AIL
guarantee! good, level, building land, and a Free Deed to every purchaser. Send for plans to
I. TATE & CO., 278 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. (Interesting Books, with Maps, Views, etc.,
Is. each. Send stamps.)
>re like Sapolib.-They waste
themselves to make the world’
brighter. S A PO LI O is the
electric light of house-cleaning'
h
h
THE OLD RUT
f na methods are not the easiest by far. Many people travel them
because they have not toed the better way. It is a relief from a sort
ot slavery to break away from old-fashioned methods and adopt the
labor-saving and strength-sparing inventions of modern times. Get out
of old ruts and into new ways by using a cake of SAPOLIO in your
nouse-cleamng. J
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
u
Regd.
By Special Appointment to H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES.
Buy Iflrect
PURE LINENS
AND
Damasl( Table Liner)
FROM
The Oldest Establishment for Linen in the North of Ireland.
SUPERIOR QUALITY.—IMMENSE SAVING.
“ The celebrated Damask Table Linen from the Royal Manufactory, Ardoyne, stands unrivalled."
Our Silk and Linen Tea Cloths and Dinner Table Centres are the richest things yet produced. Openwork and Fancy
P end i le | S J ariet y- , Judies and Gentlemen furnishing or replenishing should write for Price Lists and
Od nir Ih A r!™n 2 n bS V WClgh b ? se , nt by £ arcel ? ost for ls - 6d., and for each lb. additional up to 11-lbs.,
9a. per lb. Large Orders forwarded by best and cheapest route.
ART LINENS.—EMBROIDERY CANVAS.—DRESS CAMBRICS.
Telegrams,
Muror, Belfast.
i MURPHY Sc QRR, Belfast, Ireland.
First Quality, Men’s Tweed Suits -35 s
Extra Quality, do. do. 40s.
Special Quality do. 50s.
Send for Samples.
Shopping by fost
THE CEEEEE/^T'EIO
ORIENT CLOTHING
FOR
Boys’ and Men’s
Summer Wear
SEND FOR IL
h
POST FREE.
GEORGE STREET,
Opposite G.P.O.
STD ItST ZED'S".
DAVID JONES & CO.,
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
All Parents slitmld try tlie ORIENT
CLOTHING for tlieir Boys’
School and Best
'Wear.
Ewing-’s Indelible
for ni:
It inn
Cliclll
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and H/f 1 «« nlr i vi TT -- 1-
( T,IK Ki-itk ok the Australasian Colonies. JLtJL MI 1 JHI I UL •& 18. Jk ■
of the Government Analytical Chemist; ‘I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
ig l inen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
"ell recommended. — Signed, Ww. Johnston.”
lesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewinsf,
> appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlie Brighton of KTew South. Wales,
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, Are., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
— o '
KILMmSTER. Proprietress.
0
CASHMERE BOUQUET
TOILET SOAP
Is made with the utmost cake from materials
selected with the
GREATEST REG ARI> FOR RERIH,
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
Gold Medal, Paris, 1889
" Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume."
Poor little Jimmy Mirams ! Two years
ago, in the height of the Land Boom, there used
to be quite a pageant when he started with his
family for church from his luxurious mansion at
Jrlawkaburn, beyond South Yarra. First came
Mr. and Mrs. Mirams, in one detachment, in
the magnificent pair-horse carriage. Then fol-
lowed another natty trap with more, and the rear
was fetched up with the Miramses, junior, on
ponies. The mansion was furnished in the height
of the rekerky. Poor James! There’s his
sculptured bust yet over the door of the Federal
Coffee Palace.
Polingsby, the artist, Director of Mel-
bourne Gallery, is dead. Like Schliemann, the
1 roy-discoverer, he had to work up from poverty
and provide himself with an education. His art
Wa ? S? rnt at Munich, under Pilotz, with Makart
and Munkacsy for his fellow pupils. Afterwards
u-D VaB years in Munich, his best picture being
Bimyan in Prison,” hung in the Melbourne
Gallery, and which was engraved by the Illus-
trated London News. * His portraits were
good, as, for instance, his Sir Redmond in
Ghancellorial robes, at Melbourne University.
Asa teacher, he far excelled his predecessor, Von
Guerard,
The obituaries of Lady Rosebery are long
and gushing, but she was a good woman for all
that, much better than one would suppose, because
out here she passed for being somewhat lazy,
merely through being on the massive side. She
was indefatigable in charity, with her unlimited
means. Her father was the great racing Roths-
child who named his famous mare, Hannah, after
her. She added many embellishments to the
superb mansion of Mentmore, being especially
proud of the chandeliers from the Doge’s Palace,
Venice, and the tapestry hangings which had
belonged to Cardinal Mazarin. Her will has been
proved under £750,000.
The Hon. Patrick Jonah Perkins, of
Queensland, who has been nearly drowned in
about 18 separate shipwrecks and collisions at sea,
was nearly drowned over again the other day
while bathing at Southport. He was carried out
into the Pacific, and if he had been anyone else
there would have been no assistance nearer than
San Prancisoo, but being the undrownable Perkins
there were two men at hand, who fished him out.
Whatever Perkins’ end may be he will certainly
die in a dry state. Even if the captain of an
Orient steamer throws him overboard off the Cape
of Good Hope, with an ancher tied to him, it is
three chances to one that he will find the Hon.
Patrick in Australia before him, and two chances
to one that the Hon. Patrick will have sold the
anchor back to the company at considerably over
Its value.
OUR OWN INVESTIGATIONS.
From the DAILY NORTHERN TELEGRAPH
Recent editorial comment by some of the most
influential papers in Great Britain, respecting the
value of an article which is extensively advertised,
has led us to make certain investigations on our
own behalf, in order that we might lay before our
readers facts which we have personally verified.
Advertisements are one thing, but voluntary
editorial endorsement of the value of an article is
quite another thing. This latter occurs so very
rarely that it becomes all the more important.
From the report below it will be observed that
we have confined our investigations wholly to
local people. The reports are from w'ell-known
citizens, which must carry conviction to the minds
of every thinking man and woman.
Messrs. Jackson and Co., of 9, Regent’s Build-
ings, top of Penny-street, being among our leading
merchants, their opinion was first sought by us.
In answer to our inquiry Mr. Jackson states that
the article in question was one of the most staple.
Immense quantities were sold by him every
month, and the actual merit which it possessed
was undoubtedly the cause of its being one of the
leading articles of trade in Blackburn. * * *
Among these cases which Mr. Jackson related
was that of a well-known society lady (whose
name we are not at liberty to publish), who had
been confined to her room for more than three
weeks by muscular rheumatism in the back, dur-
which time she was under the treatment of one of
our leading medical men ; but continued from the
first to grow worse. She was very much preju-
diced against advertised remedies, and although
repeatedly urged to try St. Jacobs oil, she persis-
tently refused. Her sister, unbeknown to her,
procured a bottle of the oil from Messrs. Jackson.
The first application gave the lady relief, and
before the contents of one bottle was used she was
entirely free from pain. She felt so grateful that
she personally visited the store of Messrs. Jack-
son, and told them the facts as above narrated,
and says that hereafter she shall advise all her
friends who have rheumatism to dismiss their
doctors and use St. Jacobs oil.
THE ADVANCE OF THE AGE.
It is a frequent subject of conversation with
those amongst us who can look backward 20 or 25
years with what leaps and bounds civilisation has
advanced in that time. The schoolboy and his
teacher, the artisan, the laborer, the mechanic, all
are different in habit from those of previous-
decades. They are advancing in thought and
habit, in ambition and resources. Now, they
count time and opportunity. Now, they realise
that punctuality is the key of success, and that to-
attain such they must be equipped with reliable-
time-pieces. Here, also, economy steps in demand-
ing those “reliable time-pieces ’ at a low cost, at
prices within the reach of the masses. Where are-
such to be found ? Certainly not in the Swiss
makeshifts which have so flooded the country, and
which to such marked degree have brought low-
cost watches into disrepute. Where, then, is the-
desired article to be found ? In answer to this we
can point with pride and confidence to the
numbers of testimonials in favor of the Waterbury
watches, which we are receiving by every mail, of
which the following may be taken as specimens ::
Writing from Maidenhead, near Tenterfield,.
under date 22nd November, 1890. Mr. John C.
Trelawney (confirming a previous testimonial
dated 30th July last) says, “I beg leave to state
that my acquaintance with the Waterbury watch
extends over a period of about five years, during
which time I have found them to be excellent
timekeepers, and far more durable than the
average expensive lever. No live man, woman,
or youth, should be without one.” Mr. E. Arnold,
of Louth, writes, under date 2(!th November, as
follows: “I have found the Waterbury watches-
to be strong and reliable, and for use in the bush
they cannot be equalled. Everyone up here that
uses a Waterbury says that they prefer it to any
other. The great feature of the Waterburys is
that they can be repaired so cheaply should any-
thing go wrong.” Throughout the length and
breadth of Australasia; from Great Britain to
the United States, Canada, South Africa, and
India, all vouch for the excellence of the Water-
bury watches. “Correct time for little money”
has become a proverb belonging justly and only
to the Waterbury watches.


Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
W ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENOLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the Cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmaster-General of New
Zealand, the steamers of this line are appointed to leave
Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu and San Francisco
EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified Surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with electric light, and with
a refrigerating chamber for ship’s provisions, ensuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations, and have at San Francisco choice
of the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other Companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of bagsrage
or San Francisco, and 2501 b. “ overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL,
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing all
other information apply at the Company’s Offices 15
Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built j#pressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers.
Commander.
(Leave Sydney] Leave Mel-
| at 11 a.m. bourne! p.m
OCEANIEN iPoydenot .. Jan. 25, 1891 ;Jan. 28, 1891
SALAZIE [Fiaschi .. . 25 February 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates ;
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. B. - Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
lUKS’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
J Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Sedlmayp’s Bavarian “ Spatcn,” “Export”
and “ Tafcl ” Eager— SPECIALITY.
FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters o be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jeiiolan Eaves and
other places of interest.
Medical.
h
A.M , M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.0.5., Eng.,
157
\ ELIZABETH STREET,
1 Sydney.
}
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, frjERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals qf Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so mueh misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude,, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
‘ cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
30
THE MOSQUITO’S SONG.
“ I stood on the bridge at midnight.”—Ex.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
How to Grow Rich. —Invest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
To darken grey hair. —Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. (id. Everywhere.
The United States is a nation of traders. _ Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Estbrbeook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Western Australia, the coming colony Perth
land should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, £6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
A fair beautiful skin.—Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of a
i perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. 6d. tablets. Every-
where.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Co. one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
ColemAne and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
7i'>; '•
••
r- .•
m •
mm
rfm’ t;
iiiMMM
1
ilk
mmwM.
■
. . , . ■.
Royal Hotel] T. BItOWN, Proprietor. IRandwicfe.
Specially adapted for Families. Trams Stop at l»oor.
Aarons’ Uxdiaßge Hotel, Sydney
■" . / , ■ ......
i 'I L i- i ■ t ; «
. « f-iik i
•1
1< S
I /
a
11 n >
■•i ■ ■
.1 • ■ s
■
SSi
l.UtcrßlO PHOTO-EIUL_B(K!jOBUCf-ST.i_SI(JUUVw,
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
(••>
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building 1 .
TELEGRAPH POST and MONEY ORDER OEEICES on the PREMISES.
( ")
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
THE
4 plum 9
Pm
THE
4 Plum 5
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better tqan to try this particular brand.
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10/6 ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21/-
Price "I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15/-; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautuul case, 30/-
Begistered and sent post free to any part of the Australian Colonies.
a lS;ts , CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Parleigli, 3NT ettliei m, & C o. ?
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
IS + YORK + STEdEIET, + SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MAN It ACT LI
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c.; and of the following Special
HI a clt i ns- Tanners’ Tools and Materials, ias
UNO TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
Links: Peerless liloas. Sal in Polish, JiuMan
indents Executed on favourable Terms
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Randwick Asylum, Sydney, holds 245
children, and yet during 1890 there was not a
single death.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Australian drinks on an average half
a gallon of wine, a gallon and a half of spirits, and
16 gallons of malt-liquor annually.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Registrar-General of England reports
that the marriage-rate is increasing of late, whilst
the birth-rate for the three months ending in
September last was lower than it had been for 43
years. Philosophy begins to bear fruits.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
An English doctor thinks he has dis-
covered something remarkable in the fact that a
considerable percentage of habitual criminals are
left-handed. It is simply because neglected chil-
dren are apt to grow up “ left-handed,” and are
almost certain to find their way to prison.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
A clergyman went insolvent in Melbourne
last week, in an instructive way. Deficiency
£lO,OOO, and he had secured an unsecured creditor
in an Egyptian—beg pardon, a Hebrew —
(actually) for £3OOO. “ Lay not up treasures on
earth ” —“ but I don’t,” says the insolvent parson,
“I’m thankful to say the land boom has squared
me for Heaven.”
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The poor little inmates of the Idiot
Childrens Asylum, at Melbourne, have been
taught to sing “ God Save the Queen ” in toler-
able time and tune. That’s more than a number
of adult idiots can do. Anyhow, “ God Save the
Queen ” is a tine tune for an idiot-asylum.
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
I Cure Fits
AND TO PROVE IT
“I will GIVE A BOTTLE of my Remedy for Nothing,
so that suffereis may have an opportunity of testing
the truth of what I fearlessly state.'’
Thousands of Bottles of this Marvellous Medicine
GIVEN AWAY every Year.
I have made a life-long study of the disease of Fits
Epilepsy, or Falling Sickness, and when I say Cure, I do
not mean merely to stop them for a time and then have
them return again, I mean a Radical Cure. I have
known my remedy to cure the worst oases. Because
others have failed to cure you is no reason why you
should continue to suffer. Send at once for my Treatise
and a Free Bottle of medicine. It costs you nothing for
a trial and IT WILL CURE
Dr, H. G. ROOT, 28 Endsleigli Gardens,
Eustou-rd., LONDON, N.W.
ROSES
Pi
«1L
9:
&
G
h
h
m
m
185
ES/T
r PHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSB. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Sofo*' &
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
,1.0X0713 OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
'■4*
r, v V°
street
Be wore of initial ion*: The genuine is sigaed
i/O
--- cy? y
yy r 'tsx.s
ARK .—MUSa DEER
h
LADIES,
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 29 York-st.,
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55., post free.
IVT ERVOTJS SUFFERERS, from secret or
J3I other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
\
up-
MARK.
in rs<v Krrord, I*o wo til 8 per minute.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Fifteen carbon
copies mav be struck at one lime. A u nts —S\ I) N!A ;
.1 10 Cunningham, Ollicial Shorthand Writer, hyndhurst
Chambers, Kli/.abetb-st.; MIOI.BOURNE: C. S. Cunning-
ham, Shorthand Writer, A.W.F. Buildings, Coilins-st.;
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Mary-st.; AD10BA1DIO; E.
S. Wigg iV Son, UuiKlle-sl.; AUCKI.ANJ): J. \\ itheby


HOLDSWORTH, MCPHERSON & CO.
254 & 256 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Patented Specialities for Summer Season.
O V
IU~_J
IO
iQ
-V-
--j
-•o.
CliainpioM. Ice Machine.
The only effective one for Domestic or Hotel use.
Ice for next to nothing.
Easy and Cheap.
X.
TOBIN & DAVIDSON’S
Patent Limestone Filter.
The only perfect Filter. Specially adapted for
Australian water.
Si
Gt T
> PATENTI |
:
FI
Conlou Patent Canvas Fitter ami
flutter Refrigerator.
The established Favourite. Selling in Thou
sands. Specially for Outdoor Use.
Publications, &c.
You Only, O! Books, are Liberal and
Independent.
Dymock’s Book Arcade,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(next Royal Hotel).
Half-a-inillion of Books (20 miles long) always on
view. Free to the inspection of all.
itar No officious Librarians to interrupt you. TE&
50,000 Books ‘Offered at Half-price.
Every Book you want may be had at
DY3I O CK ’SB OOK AHCA D E,
428 George Street, next Royal Hotel.
Books on Medicine
Building '
Fanning
Poultry
Useful Arts and V
Trades
Mining
Law j
NO
saloon
Religion
Games
Horses
Engineering
Fine Arts
Astronomy
Men
BOOKS ON EVERYTHING !
SCHOOL BOOKS. SCHOOL BOOKS.
Parents can save 20 per cent, by BUYING their
BOOKS at
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE.
STATIONERY. STATIONERY.
Envelopes, 2s. 6d. per 1000.
Splendid Note-paper ... 9d. per packet.
Save Money and get Good Value.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 George Street, next Royal Hotel.
MAGNIFICENT PHOTO ALBUMS.
Beautifully Illuminated and Bound in Morocco.
Published at £2 25.; offered for 17s. 6d.
PHOTO. FRAMES PHOTO. FRAMES
One Shilling will Buy a beautiful Frame at DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE.
LADIES’ BAGS and PURSES.
Best assortment in Australia—at prices that will delight
and please all.
Mercantile Stationery Cheaper Ilian Ever.
Account Books of every description, Inks, Pens, Pencils,
ill kinds of papers. Everything required for the mer-
chant’s office at Nett London Prices.
Early Australian Books.
Splendid Library just purchased, containing many rare
and curious gems : also, charming copies of Philip's Voyage,
Hunter's Voyage, Collins’ History, Therry Reminiscences,
Mudie’s Felonry, Cook's Original Voyages, Dampicr’s, and
upwards of M>o scarce books on Australian History can be
inspected at
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE
423 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next Royal Hotel),
Companies.
THE'
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £260,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,800; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
tfead Office i fitU Market Streets, Sydney,
Board of Directors :
Francis Abigail, Esq., M.P., Chairman ; Ald. S. O. Davison,
J.F.; T. 11. Hassell, Esq., M.P. ; William Bull, Esq., J.P. ;
Koht. Cunningham Esq.
GOULBURN BRANCH : AUBURN STREET,
C. 11. Atkinson, Manager.
A dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, (the last)declared
on July 20, will be payable on and after the 14th August.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. Board days. Wednesday and Friday. Special j
advantages grantrd to. Commercial Clients. Overdrafts
granted against deposit of Deeds without mortgage.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
I’ODEPP K M'NAMARA, Genera! Manager.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.
In Handsome CLOTH BINDING, 2s. 6d., Post Paid.
h
A
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
h
Ask for Lea & Perkins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export bu (he Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse & Blackwell, London, §c. , §c.}
and bp Grocers and Oilmen ihnujhout the World,
FREE
LESSONS GIVEN TO PURCHASERS OF
LICHTNER & CO.’S APPARATUS.
;^Z7
a
m
• 'v
1
IM
Q
m.
i/. ‘ 9 ,
'«-“v
m '
\ >*
) -K.
\ /
iy*
Vi #
\
i
\
V \
<- y.
AS
s
DARK ROOM FITTED WITH EVERY CONVENIENCE
AT THE DISPOSAL OF AMATEURS.
“Quick, Mary, lie must know we’re only jiat married. He’s idin’’is’ead to give us a chance.”
SEND FOR LIST OF AMATEUR OUTFITS.
' —O' t ——
LICHTNER & 00.
wonpY 318 George Street. BRISBANE 9 Hayes' Buildings. Elizabeth St- e:t.
Public Companies.
Land Company of Australasia
(LI M ITEDI.
Nominal Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital
Unpaid Capital
Heserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£1,000,000
500,000
104,265
395,734
52,000
HEAD OFFICE:
PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES:
60 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, LONDON
371 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Money Received on Deposit at following Rates:
For 12 Months at .. 0} per cent, per annum.
For 0 Months ai .. 5A per cent, per annum.
For 3 Months and on Current Accounts, 4 per cent, per
annum.
The Company has Crazing Areas, Rich Farm Lands,
Orchard and Vineyard Blocks, &c., at Glenormiston
(Western Victoria), Charlton (North-Western Victoria).
Bushy Park (Gippslnnd), Segenhoe and Ravensworth
(near Singleton, N.S.W.).
JAMES G. EDWARDS, 1
WILLIAM HARRIS, V
G. BAKER WALKER, )
Managing
Directors.
THE WAY TO WEALTH.
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market.
The majority of the wealthy men of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane made their money by buying land in these
capital cities while it was low in price, and before these
cities were so large and populous as at present.
■Western. A. uatralia
is the coming colony. Her Capital City will become
a second Melbourne or Sydney.
If you want to make money, buy land
there now. It is a good spec.
GRAND BUILDING SITES AT PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
FROM £lO TO £.50.
TERMS, jrom £1 Dcjmit. Vert/ cast/ payments.
> T OTE.—The allotments offered are in picked posi-
tions, they have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed
good.
Write for Marked Plans to
The INTERCOLONIAL (Western Australian)
INVESTMENT COMPANY, Ltd.,
9<> BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
W J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVELY
aud RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, either
WITH OK WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the patient, if
necessary : it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or an
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates »o quietly and with such certainty that the
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware, his
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BBIVARE of worthless imitations and plagiarisms of
our Advertisements. II'<• hare r.n Aiients.
Note our Sole Address: —
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 So 147 Collins St., MELBOURNE, Vio.


w DENMARK PILLS
Registered
Unequalled, Unexcelled, Unsurpassed and Guaranteed to Cure all Blood and Nervous Diseases, Discovered, [Registered and Prepared
—
%\
%
%
\
%
%
%
\
&
h
h
R
E
s
T
I
0
s
?
V
I
y
k
L
I
y
v
>jicoEi
:h #«
h
pi#
Jlf#
A#
(0
h
Restores
ITAIUY
A Guaranteed Cura
for Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Posted • 23/6 and 6/-
By HERB RASSHUSSEN, thef celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Only Herbalist in Australia
Who has received “Gold Medal” for Great Cukes Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “ Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OYER 20,000 SUFFERERS with his Remedies.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS, Reglsterefl.
Which have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Ncvvous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. 6d. per Course ; Smaller Box, ss. 6d.- Posted, 23/6 and 6/-
Genuine Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
had failed.—JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious
nature, after all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
MAOFARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great cure your remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—THOS.
MUDIMAN, Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend your remedies to all.—
Yours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
■Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
cured me, one course of your Vitality Pills being sufficient.—D.
M'NEILL, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
ĥ
h
h
ĥ
Opinions of tlie Freas,
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist.— Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.—Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.— Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important cures effected by his remedies.—Sydney
Evening News, March 7,189 C.
Herr Herbal RemedLies. — (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, 6s. 6d.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. 6d. Posted, 235. 6d. and 6s.
DENMARK LOOK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 22/6 per course ; small box, 5/6. Posted, 23/6 and 6/-
DENMARK LIVER and KIDNEY PlLLS.—Excellent to take with the above Pills for Costiveness, and guaranteed to cure Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Wind, Heartburn, and all
complaints peculiar to the Liver and Kidneys. Is. and 2s. 6d. per box. Posted, Is. 6d. and 3s.
DENMARK HAIR and SKIN BEAUTlFlER.—Guaranteed to cure all Affections of the Skin, and prevents the Hair from turning grey. Excellent for the complexion.
2s. 6d. per packet. Posted, 3s.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS only, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness,
sent free, on receipt of 6d stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by post, free. Patients’ blood and urine, when Sent by post, are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address: - Herr RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
Box £2OB, General Rost Office, Sydney.
N.8.-=-All correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
tSF All the above Remedies may also be obtained personally at 58 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
$
DENMARK j-
%
%
%
%
\
%
%
%
%
\
%
%
<? -
%
h
T
0
R
E
s
!l
10
S
T
V
I
I
A
L
I
T
y
ħ
h
■s
#
p(j#
h
#
#
(0
msm
Desk
ITALITY
A Guaranteed Cure
for Neevous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. Cd.
Posted - 23/6 and 6/
.A. GOLDEN SHANTT,’
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and Verse, by “ Bulletin ” Writers.
The Brightest, Best and most Original Shlliing Book ever published in this country.
To be obtained from all Booksellers.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
ENGINEERS
-.A-IsTID -
General Machinery Merchants.
161 Clarence-st., Sydney, & at Melbourne & Brisbane,
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EDSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., &c.
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &o.
I
■
Webber’s Fatent Centrifugal F*nnap,
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEVANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
AND EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS.
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDBAULTC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
&c., «&c.
STEAM ENGlNES—Horizontal), nnd "Vertical, with and without Boilers combined,-from two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
Engines. Boiler Feed Injectors. ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing Machines,' &c.
FAIRBANKS'S Scales and Weighbridges. Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease, Belting, Emery Wheels'
Sight Feed Lubricators* Piqfceriaag Engine Governors. IST Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
Tlje London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port in N. S-Wales.
- jr
Packed In
SO-lb. and 40-lb. Chests.
Price:
1/0, 1/9, 2/-, & 2/6 per lb.
"Write to us for
Samples, Post Tree


Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
OOOOA
m
i-
\
v'-V-
-■ ; :! .iiii
! ifWwm
wm
4 In
> <; .
K;.V iI S
mm*
fe
' ■ '
■-■•:-
/
H
W.-r.t.y
m
rxr.-
jj&’i . J,
, --^J
jjgsEgr,
Jfnr
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely,allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
A Oondoboliu (N.S. W.) man lately drank
150 glasses of beer in 12 hours. '
In Melbourne people have been astonished
to see a lot of turbaned “ Mahometans ” drinking
in public-house bars. They are not Mahometans
tan.! M.h^Sf^U*OTPS‘'hrir'short,
while Sikhs are Nazarenic in this particular, and
never cut their hnir nr henrrl at all
never cut their hair or beard at all.
Mr. Tumtoady Coxon, editor of the Cen-
TBAL Bunuaree Anti-Australian, ought cer-
tainly to be made a magistrate at once, for just
listen to his leader on H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales:—“Carlyle tells us how Louis XV. was
surnamed the Well-Beloved, and such is the lustre
that will enwreath the name of ALBERT
EDWARD, for it is undeniable that had he been
a George IV,, or in the faintest degree of that
stamp, the heart’s core of the Throne of England
would have been eaten out by this time ; but no,
this Prince was moulded by men like Bishop
Wilberforce, of Oxford, whom the envious named
Soapy Sam.’ His Royal Highness wrung the
Tww i T and oamb t ndge , by i T /7 al r ° a f d
to learning; he was ever true to his future wife
and his present, so that we see a sturdy race
growmg up to perpetuate his name, yea, as a tree
planted by the rivers of water.
The late squatter-Robertson (Vic.) once
had a nice trick worked on him by a eattle-c rover.
It was when the young swells often used to drive
their own beef to Ballarat. The drover alluded
to was travelling with a small mob of cows and
went in company with Robertson who had a large
consignment of prime bullocks. They camped a
little way out of Ballarat, and during the night
all the drover’s cows and a few of the bullocks
broke into a paddock of wheat and were promptly
impounded. The drover went on ahead to release
the animals, leaving Robertson to follow with the.
rest of the mob. That was the last of the drover.
“Look here,” said he to the poundkeeper, “I
have no money at present and I am in a hurry
with the cows. I tell you what I’ll do. I’ll leave
the bullocks as security and come back and pay
for the lot to-night.” He got the cows, went
promptly into Ballarat and sold them. When
Robertson came up to the pound he had all the
drover’s cow-fees to pay before he could release
his bullocks. He searched anxiously for the
drover, but it was “ no go.”
A medium down at Salt Lake City has in-
, , , , , , j , , J, . ...
d «ced a bereaved husband to entrust him with
£BOO for transmission to the Spirit world It
seems that the husband waited upon the medium
awhde back, desiring him to rap up poor dear
Mana and ask how she was getting on since her
death, whereupon Maria replied that her general
health was good, but she was terrible badly off for
“things.” With a wardrobe limited to one ‘
shroud, and that worn almost to tatters, she had
no sort of a show, said Maria, against the other
lady-spirits of her set, who were in the habit of
promenading round the jasper sea in costumes
copied from Mrs. Potter’s, and never thought of
going for a drive through Heaven in the same
figured muslin they wore last time. Furthermore,
Maria explained that all the best-bred spirits had
their wings silver-gilt and sported a good deal of
jewellery and silk stockings, not to mention soft,
elinging underwear. Under these circumstances
there was nothing left for the bereaved husband
but to hand cheques to the medium, who duly
wafted ’em to the eternal regions and got messages
back on the good old slate—“ Money to hand.
Please send another lot on Monday next. Yours,
f ™ aal » Sometimes the lady slated up
t 7m!°C b C Jereaved hu f S v b f nd to 4 e ’
! L ? smoothly until he
S® At lat f *.l,*!™!
Still t v ! J expected,’ but
aH the medlum always produced receipts for cash,
and the wife can testify to his lona Jides on the
slate, a verdict for defendant, with costs on the
higher scale, is tolerably certain to ensue,
rni c t. , t
Sporting AND' Dramatic News
(London) has been stuffed by chess-player Gossip
(late of Australia) with some lovely dingo-yarns,
' e sa y s > f°r instance, th.at “a cross between a
dingo and a collie is greatly valued as a sheep or
cattle-dog.” This after telling them that a dingo
w 'll often kill a dozen sheep in one night,
Ex-Minister J. P>. Patterson left Melbourne
the other day for Europe, and not a solitary soul
gathered t osee him \ A . Nobody drai & his
health nobody cheered , or made a speech ; even
Price failed to come along and “Eire low ” on the
occasion> Capital took b no notice of him and
Labour threw no brick at him, and nobody cared
a b whether he went or not ’ y
°
, An En « llsh P°^ emau named Penderell
d ™ a P ension °, f £s ° a y f r f ™ m suffering
v anCfestor Bt , owed Charles 11.
aftei '
d< fj V, has long since
m n n Jt ® d \ 1 V) P ni b f te T r T t .° v ®
W? 7 f 7 77 rl ? n CharleS IL “ aad
S. OX I g °7 T J f USt i he
® a “®i‘ ! ' 4 • 4 I oth f r
f m , BU . rre « tl °“ to
17 777 8 ' J orefa ‘ her “
“ Jf?’ S I T 7 V both parties, as
* P6 ° l Wh ° Sat °“ a rail
’
kir William Flowden, of Hingland, and
Lady Plowden, arrived the other day at St. Louis
(U.S.), preceded by a telegram to Mr. Hunting-
don, the millionaire, asking him to secure the best
rooms at the Hotel Monger. Next day, Lady
Plowden aired the bedding by hanging it out of
the window. On the maid protesting, with some
insolence, her ladyship is said to have struck the
girl in the face. The latter’s shrieks attracted the
4 ° the S P°, 4 > and be ’ 7°’ f r f eAed his
quietus. A squabble ensued, when the German
” aiter manag H ed to entangle himself in Lady
Howden’s dress, tearing several yards from it. As
a result of the trouble Sir William and Lady
pi owden left town for New Orleans, having ex-
ed their indignat ion at such treatment,
The pickled corpse-business is one of the
gruesome industries of London, the corned deceased
being imported from the Continent for purposes
of dissection. Several varieties of dead are
quoted in the market, but the late lamented who
comes from Belgium fetches the highest price,
The minimum figure for a reasonably good Belgian
corpse is £5, and as it is purchased at Antwerp for
£1 4s. the.profit is considerable. It is packed in
galvanised-iron case full of brine, and the care
which is taken in this department of the work
causes the late lamented to arrive in good condi-
tion and command a ready sale. The Dutch
cadaver is in less demand owing to unskilful
stowage and consequent damage in transmission,
and an almost unsaleable variety of not lost but
gone before is put up in Italy and is traded off at
an alarming sacrifice. Defunct Germans are also
good, but they seldom arrive in a fresh state, and
are consequently viewed with suspicion by the
trade,
Extract from the S.M. Herald, Jan. 1,
1891 ._
. , . , ~ , , , . n
A singular experiment recently took place in Palestine
to test the accuracy of Dr. Colenso’s statement that the
people of Israel assembled in the valley between Mount
Ebal and Mount Gemini could not hear the curses and
blessings delivered from heights above them. Aparty.it
appears, was travelling in the neighbourhood of these
mountams, and two Scotchmen ascended Mount.Eballand
two Welshmen Mount Genzim, while the rest of the party
remained in the valley. One of the Scotchmen read the
curses, and from the opposite mountain a Welshman read
the blessings. Both were easily heard below, where the
party added Amens. Both readers were perched upon
natural platforms near the summits.
The whole value of this experiment appears to
Ihe Bulletin to turn on the point whether the
party they left m the valley were Welshmen or
A once well-known snake-man in Tas-
mania was a jovial spirit. He got regular
remittances from England, where he had well-to-
do relations. The arrival of each remittance was
followed by a prolonged carouse, which ter-
minated only when the cash had melted,
Rollicking about Launceston in his loose blue
jumper and slouched hat, he was on one occasion
“run in.” On arrival at the watch-house, the
charge-drunk and disorderly—having been duly
entered, the prisoner was ordered to he searched,
in accordance with the regulations in such case
made and provided. ihe search was vigorously
entered nnnn—a knife some tobaeen and matches
cnteieci upon a Unite, some tobacco anu matches
were sprung from the outside pockets of tne
jumper. Then the enterprising searcher thrust
his arm down to the socket, inside the jumper,
The shriek that followed no pen can adequately
describe. The charmer had about half-a-dozen
<mnkc« inside tbit Limner The viVnnr with
snakes inside that jumper. Ihe vigour with
which that search was abandoned, and the
charmer shunted out—snakes and all—gave the
quickest time on record.
Mr. Lucien Henry, the art-lecturer at
Sydney Technical College, is engaged in preparing
an important work on the decorative arts as
applied to the flora and fauna of Australia. This
work will treat of architectural decoration,
designs in metal-work, tiles, textile fabrics,
majolica, and wrought and cast iron. The subjects
dealt with range from architectural ensembles
down to the every-day-life objects which form the
articles of ornament or utility in every household,
This scheme opens up an immense field to the
architect, the decorator, designer, and, in fact,
every profession or trade employed in the
industrial branches of art; it will, moreover,
concentrate the attention of those engaged in
Australian industries on our own natural
resources, and assist to a very large ex-
tent in fostering and developing a native
and exclusively Australian school of design, for
Mr. Henry argues that we have as much need of
a native art as we have of an Australian republic ;
and the people who borrow from Europe the
models of their churches and their salt-cellars are
not exactly of the stuff of which independent
nations are made. In short, Mr. Henry would
deduce from the nature around him a decorative
art which should focalise in our surroundings the
spirit of the land we live in to such an extent that
an antiquarian, sitting on the stone-coping of
Circular Quay some thousands of years hence,
when our very name is lost in oblivion, shall
be able to say, picking up a tile from a
heap of debris, “ this is a very fine speci-
men of the art of that unique people who
came from Europe to this continent in the
reign of Henry Parkes or thereabout,” just as we
unerringly differentiate the arts of the Baby-
lonians, Egyptians, Chaldaeans, Greeks, &c., and
assign to its proper civilisation, the cave temple,
the obelisk, the Grecian portico, the lonic
column, the cupola, the horse-shoe arch, the
loggia, the Gothic cathedral and the Druidical
cairn. Mr. Henry’s book deals with purely Aus-
tralian elements, and will comprise fifty plates,
over thirty of which will'be polychromatic; fifty of
textual illustration and sixty or so pages of letter-
press. The work will be produced in Paris under
the personal supervision of Mr. Henry, by one of
the first art-printing firms in Europe.
He was a stout parson of the Evangelical
persuasion, travelling on a Melbourne suburban
line. His friend, stouter but less pimply, suggested
that it was quite shocking to read of ninety thou-
sand men being unemployed at the East End of
London. The shepherd turned a large boiled eye
towards his companion and snuffled—“ But then,
the East End is so densely populated. Let us
rather be thankful that there are many thousands
who are not out of work.” After which he took a
peppermint-drop from a pocket just outside his
goodly paunch, and delivered himself of the
wheezy supposition that the Loard would provide.
Judge Harding, of Queensland, has been
interviewed by a Brisbane paper as to his recent
experiences at “ Home.” Here is a sample :
Probably there is nothing that feels more uncomfort-
able to a colonial in England than the necessity of being
always dressed “up to the nines” with a belltopper on
and all that sort of thing, and this feeling came home to
me, more especially in the matter of Court dress. In that
connection I must tell you, though it is against myself, of
an odd courtesy that was extended to me. At all the
State receptions one must appear in Court dress. Having
legs of unequal proportions they did not show up well
in kneebreeches, so I got special permission to wear
trousers.
It doesn’t look so very much of a favour after
all, but evidently the judge was impressed by it.
He was travelling in a “free” country, and her
Gracious kindly permitted him to call and see
her with his own pants on. If he had been short
of clothes, and the British Crown had lent him a
pair of pants, the judge’s gratitude would have
been easy of comprehension, but it did nothing of
the sort; it only permitted him to put on the
split garment which he had bought and paid for
with his own legal tender. Or, to put the matter
more accurately, Mr. Harding had the pants on
in the first place, and Victoria by the grace of
God allowed him to come round without taking
them off. He was also allowed to look in without
removing his shirt, and no objection was raised to
his boots - at least nothing is said about him
carrying them in one hand and his socks in the
other on that memorable occasion. In ancient
times a subject removed most of his clothes before
going into the presence of loyalty—in fact, there
are some countries where he removes all of them
at the present day, but the dawn of freedom
enables him to appear before a British monarch
witli the bulk of his ordinary costume on and
publish a small paragraph about it afterwards.
In consequence of which Victoria lives in the
hearts of her devoted subjects, and the silken
bonds ” of empire, etcetera.


ĥ
/ /7//
m
m
•• 5.
"MJ
m
2/
7V/
5^
'Vx
fXx
m
\
\jM*-
hh
There are some pitiably weak points about
* , t i r* 7 .i . L _ i
Australian law, and one of them turned up last
week at Melbourne. A gentleman wearing
a stolen suit of clothes was arrested for larceny,
but when the prosecutor was wanted it transpired
that he was in bed, and couldn’t come out, because
the vanished clothes were the only ones he had.
rn, , , c i i i. i J i j a “ i.:w
The spectacle ot an absolutely naked plaintm
appearing before the bench, he pointed out, was
not provided for in the code, and therefore he
suggested that the attire should be taken off the
prisoner and that person be left in his natural
condition in the cell, and then if some minion of
the law would kindly fetch the articles along he
would dress himself and testify in the box. This
view of the situation was laid before the prisoner,
but he very reasonably stated that he wouldn’t
appear naked in the dock for all the police in
Christendom—he would see the country blowed
first. Upon this another deputation went round
to the prosecutor’s house, and offered to fetch him
down in a cab with a blanket round him, and then
if he could identify the clothes the prisoner would
be undressed forthwith; but the prosecutor re-
minded them that he had no pockets in his nude
state, and no money in his absent pockets, and
he couldn’t pay the cab, and nobody else seemed
authorised to pay for it either, and even though
he got down to the lockup there was always a
chance that the clothes might not be his, and then
he would be turned loose in the streets—a lost
atom in a blanket; in, short, he would also see the
country blowed first. Next the force made another
appeal to the prisoner, and asked him as a man, a
brother, and a citizen, to give up the -clothes and
go into the dock in a sheet, but he bade them
depart into Gehenna, and asked them if they took
him for an idiot. What happened during the next
two hours no one knows, but the police were
rendered desperate by this time, and it is pre-
sumed they took strong measures. Anyhow, when
the case was called two hours later, the plaintiff
was there clothed and in his right mind, and the
defendant was disguised in a Chinaman’s left-off
costume, and seemed woefully unhappy. Possibly
the Mongolian suit went against him, for he was
sent up for a month.
Phil. Groatcher, the American scenic
artist, who has arrived in Australia under engage-
ment to “the Phirm,” and who was associated at
Niblo’s Gardens (N.Y.) and elsewhere with
that lately-deceased genius, Matt Morgan, first
practised his art in Maoriland many years ago.
He tells a story in the columns of a eontemp. of
an adventure he had while preparing the scenery
for a private production of “Hamlet” given by
the N.Z. Governor of the day to amuse the Duke
of Edinburgh. Says he :
A rehearsal was in progress, and I was making my
way through the same passage by which the Prince hail
just passed on his way to the stage when, in the dark,
close to the hack door, I was suddenly embraced by a
willowy young woman, who kissed me passionately and
exclaimed:—“Oh! I am so lonely without your Royal
Highness ;do let me stay with you.” She continued' to
smother me with her'soft, warm kisses for several
minutes, then hung her head, with its wealth of long,
flowing hair, upon my breast. I did not make the
&TSSSS ixrtr r si, an
she released me with a cry of surprise. The
light lit up one of the most beautiful faces I ever saw.
She was the mysterious Jewess who fell violently in love
with the duke, and had embraced the wrong man. Every
feature of that remarkable face fixed itself firmly on my
mind, although she disappeared immediately, and did not
return for a rehearsal of the squeezing and kissing pro-
gramme. Yet I was satisfied I would know her should we
ever meet again. Well, long years afterwards, when in
New York, I was asked to dine with my friend, Charles
P , the musician. Just as we were sitting down to
( p lrmer } le introduced me to his wife. She started a little
an( j looked me searchingly in the face. I fancied I had
met her before, but could not fix the time and place. It
was very clear we were both somewhat upset, for our
appetites were far from keen. After dinner we had an
opportunity of chatting together in the drawing-room
hen she whispered that she had met me before. I felt
g | ie was ri jrht, and asked her where. She blushingly
replied at Auckland, New Zealand, and that she was none
other than the mysterious Jewess who had embraced me
in mistake for the Duke of Edinburgh on the night of the
“ Hamlet ” rehearsal.
This is a nice give-way for Mrs. P , but we
are inclined to bet that under the circs, she would
say “Alfy ’’and not “ Your Royal Highness.” We
knew the lady well—by sight. Sarah S- , for
that is the name of the mysterious Jewess, twenty
years ago was the living image of Sarah Bernhardt,
a little taller perhaps, but possessor of an equally
lissome svelte figure, a panther-like grace of move-
nient, profound and inscrutable eyes and a semi-
hatchet profile. Alfred of Edinburgh was very
dear to her (the present writer is a J.P.), so she
followed him to England and there became very
dear to him. Then she returned to Australia and
settled down at Ballarat, where she met Charles
p who came along as accompanyist to Hina di
Murska, who, with Giammona and others, was
touring Australasia. Sarah fascinated P , and
t i iey g o t married and skipped to America soon
a ft e r the Melbourne Cup that Briseis won. We
saw husband and wife on the “ Hill ” together ;
they looked bored. The diva then (it is said that
she'had a tendresse for P ) out of pique married
Alfred Anderson, a clever Melbourne Jewish
musician. He was consumptive and had heart-
disease, and she speedily wore him out, and with-
out delay espoused as her number four the gay
an d gallant John Hill, R.A.M., who was billed
afterwards as Signor Ilia or by some equally
ridiculous title. John must be made of tough
material, he has up to date survived the caprices
0 f t h e enamelled one and the worry of her dog-
parrot and monkey-petting old age. By the way,
Sarah’s father was a piano-player before he became
a bookmaker. He used to whang the ivories in
artistic style in an Ararat dance-room during the
°M digging days,
Dear Bulletin,—The province of Western
Australia as a field for mining enterprise lias long
been neglected, owing to the miserable fiasco
which characterised Jackson’s Reef Co., and the
gigantic failure of Kimberley. But it is not
generally known that a new gold-field has be; n
unearthed which promises to do more for sleepy
W.A. than all the land-grant railways and ctn-
stitutional changes put together. Yilgarn, after
a two years’ hard struggle, has come splendidly to
the front. The usual drawbacks to a reefing field
were experienced, and what with bogus companies
and inoperative syndicates at one time it appeared
if oollapse was inevitable. But a few of the
. 1 , . ... , •
companies possessed faith, machinery ''as pur-
chased, and now four stamper heads and a Hunting-
don mill are at work with surprisingly satisfactory
results. There are three belts of gold-bearing
country at Yilgarn, viz., Golden Valley, Parker’s
«* ****** <>r- *• **r:
centre of operations. The principal mints there
which are opened up sufficiently to enable an
opinion to be passed on their value, are—Central,
Fraser’s, Fraser’s South, Exchange ar:d Hope’s
HiU Amalgamated, all of which are likely to
dividends The first named eornnanv has
bfL dividends. xne first named c 1 ai y las
always been a favourite, being the first mine to
show payable stone, but the crushings have not
exceeded half-an-ounce to the ton, although the
stone has every appearance of improving. Fraser’s
is the property adjoining, and, from the jump, the
yields have averaged from 1 ounce to 2\ ounces
per ton —enabling a dividend (the first in the
colony) to be declared last month of 6d. per share
on 50,000 shares. Fraser’s South is the next mine
on this line of reef, the company being floated in
Adelaide. Only one crushing has taken place, but
the result was a return of over 2oz. to the ton ;
while the first return from the Exchange reef has
given the satisfactory result of soz. to the ton
(probably both “show” crushings). Hope’s Hill
Amalgamated are just starting crushing. There
is only one machine at Parker’s Range, and only
one company operating at Golden Valley, but the
former field will, it is believed, turn out some good
and payable mines. During the past month no
less than five claims have been bought up by
Adelaide speculators, and in that time over
£20,000 has been invested in the Yilgarn mines.
This, too, after due examination on the part of ex-
perts. The alluvial field's at the north-west are also
keeping up their average Last week a nugget of
120 ounces was uncovered at a new find on the
Turner River, where a large number of men from
the Ashburton fields are doing well. But the
hope of the colony is now centred in Yilgarn, and
there is a strong probability of a large settlement
during the next year at these new goldfields. An
instance of how the province stands in the matter
of gold export is interesting, and will show the
position. Five years ago —nil : last quarter,
3000 ounces were sent away, and for the quarter
just ending the export will be over 5000 ounces !
—Yours, &c., Perth. Dec. 22.
When Chief Justice Higinbothain sat up
at the conclusion of the Premier Permanent case
to sentence the two prisoners held over from the
previous trial, he made a notable distinction
between them. The first was addressed sternly as
‘•Doherty;” the second was alluded to almost
apologetically as “ Mr. Mirams.” Also there was
a conspicuous difference between the men them-
selves, for the collapsed accountant was all broken
up and weeping, while the ruined financier with
the umbrella took the defeat fighting, and almost
his last act as a defendant was to hand in sixty
pages of closely-written foolscap filled with violent
protests against everything and everybody.
European “society” is much scandalised
by the familiarity that exists between All-bnt
Edward of Wales and Baron Hirsch, the wealthy
Austrian Jew, who is privileged to slap the obese
coining K. on the back. When it is remembered
how sharply he pulled up Mrs. Cornwallis West,
the society beauty, when she dropped a piece of
ice down his back after dinner, and cut the
Langtry altogether because in a moment of
dalliance she pet-named him “Tummy,” coldly
dismissed the well-known actor who sang a risky
song at Marlborough House, and sat on the chest
of the too familiar special correspondent who
accompanied him through India, it becomes evi-
dent that Walesy owes Hirschy a lot of money and
would like to owe him more. P.S. —We hope this
won’t lose us our J.P.-ship.
The average Victorian deputation feels a
lot better now that Alfred Deakin has vanished
from the Chief Secretary’s office. Alfred never
did any work worth speaking of, and he seldom
appeared at the office except when a deputation
was expected. Then he would drag half a ton of
papers cut of the nearest receptacle and spread
them wildly over his table, and sit among them
with a haggard glare of exhaustion in his eye, and
with his head grasped firmly in his hand as if he
was dying at his post for his country’s good. By-
and-bye the distracted menial in the next room
would bring the deputation in—the menial always
looked distracted with toil when anybody called;
in fact, the whole department was run on the
same lines— and would leave it spread about
loosely in the room, Deakin being so deeply
immersed in some fathomless problem of states-
manship that he hadn’t heard anything
though ten heavily-shod men had entered
in single file. When the deputation grew
tired of this it would cough violently, and
for the first time the Chief Secretary, would
notice its presence and apologise. Then the
proceedings would commence, and just as the first
speaker had got fairly started the harassed states-
man would dive among his letters once more.
Generally the orator would stop in amazement,
but Alfred simply bade him go on, and assured
him that he was listening, and he delivered the
rest of his remarks to the top of the Secretary’s
head as it loomed up out of a snow-drift of docu-
ments. When he had finished Deakin usually
came to the surface for a moment and delivered a
hurried reply with Ids weary eye still fixed upon
his papers, and the deputation departed under the
impression that it had been face to face with a
gigantic but toilworn intellect, never imagining
that the owner of that stupendous mind had only
been looking vaguely at an incomplete dog-tax re-
turn for 180.
Abraham —— breathed his last in Mel-
bourne Hospital the other day from the effects of
too much spirits of salt on the stomach. Subse-
quent to his demise the police found in Abraham’s
bosom, or trousers pocket, a letter addressed to
his wife—“ May my everlasting curse rest on my
wife, my eldest son, and daughter, for they are
the cause of ray death, and if there is such a
place as hell I hope to meet them there.” It was
unkind of Abraham to leave this letter (and he
doesn’t appear to have left much else) behind him.
Also it was a waste of time, because curses com-
mitted to paper count for nothing, unless they
happen to be scrawled in rich, red bicod and are
hidden away in a dark cupboard until they have
time to mature. However, Abe struck a some-
what original means of shifting himself from
hence, and deserves an epitapli :
Here Abraham’s virtues and merits
Are buried along with his faults—
He is mustered with millions of spirits,
Through swallowing spirits of salts.
Instead of remaining and blasting
His nearest relations on earth,
He lias left them his curse everlasting
For what that poor trifle is worth.
Yet doubtless it would have been better
To slang at ’em, day after day,
’Tis little they’ll care for the letter
He wrote in that commonplace way ;
His present abode may be fairer,
But foolish he was to leave town.
For the positive words of a swearer
Weigh more than remarks written down.
He should have kept constantly dodging
(Yes, really friend Abraham should)
Around where his dear ones were lodging.
Blaspheming as hard as he could.
But anger affects men like beering,
Their judgment it weakens and warps,
And Abe must submit to the jeering
That’s cast at the cuss of his corpse.


Medical.
h
V
EUREKA
m
ELECTRIC BELItV
m
JS#
' ■"■
jj&smx
S'}
cm
\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0.0 and
mvwards This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pams in the
Rack Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Svstem The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves' what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydnbt.
VIGO
FOR MEN.
Loss of Nerve Force.
Debility arid Decay
NDISH
mkj be perfectly regained by the CAV
i
eatment .
ox, 12s. 6d„
One
3T.11 roUPSe. £l. Treatise sent sealed, 4 Stamps
. iirrnn Tbft CAVENDISH LABORATORY.
Address?- *ne A RU3SELIi SXEEET> MELBOURNE. VIC
debilitated
WEAK AND
NERVOUS
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Skin
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE. Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
lARICOCELE —lts canoes, avmptoms, and patho*
M ° logy. together with a desorption
M of a NEW and SUCCESSFUL METHOD of TREAT-
g MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Post free, two
19 stamp'.
PROFESSOR CARL STINE WAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST, MELBOURNE, VIC.
“Throw Physic
to th<
Dogs!’’
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSOR,
iM
mm
MINIATURE
ALLEN 5
■-
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century. '
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several-
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant hut gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves,lßrain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments:—
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Broucbitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for uso,
Price FIVE SHIZiJLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemists
pnd Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 254
Elizabeth St,, Melbourne.
Hotel.
PFAHLERT’S HOTEL.
SYDNEY, NB.W h
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under New Management.)
rpHIS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
A recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of- A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Wines
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS-
ĥ
Spoken.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES
CHAS. lIECHT ... Manaokr.
Medical.
WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Bills
PATENT
PILLS.
sK
■-
3
45
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and'pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling- after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
er ea *' ne ® t \y in , vitetl to try one" box’of these
Us, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beechaji’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Uks^iiißMfeßl
HRUPP n.UWi
CHMt^>|W x
£
(/
s>r.
/wT\ v\
ħ
I
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the-appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrheea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory,
An Unfailing Cure. For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health bv procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
|ggr' Tlie prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtnkv.
Address all CommunicaUons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicim,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. It
contains Advice on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
Business Announce merits
mHE BANK OFNEW ZEALAND
.A Sydney Branches :
04 BITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capita]
Uncalled Capital ...
Reserve Liability ...
dSS&jOOO
75,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can oiler special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
. r®*“' A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes re grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. fSf*’ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
EV£RY
/
HAIR WORK
%
v
'V
%
:s:
if
/22i24
/ROYAL ARCAOK
MELBOURNE
P R ly ATE.
- ROOM’S
FOR t A DIE'S
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies’ Hairdresser. Wigmaker. Sc Perfumer,
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SY DN EY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds op Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Ammoniated Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema-
ture baldness.
Sitterlin’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore -Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
Success Guaranteed.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OFALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
h
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
m.
3©
fiU CH
INC
*7
PO
«*c
i MANUFACTURED BY : - -■■■'
JAMES C//M/VOA/ SctrhovrS* \
st Sc lei Iru nil EaoccuXm} <? S/ore***foen>
mm — 1 —
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON 1 MADH
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 20s. to 21s .
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s-.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
jondon FasLioias,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON'S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
A-TKIIsrSOdST’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers-
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Oolden
Lyre/ ’ with Address in full.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stoch Importer,
26 MABKBT STEEET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EPPS’S
G-RATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Medical.
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
(Mr'S. E. KUmMAM§
OP
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
WRo XXas Cured
More Cases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
0T ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice. — It preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
S«Olt\ CERTIFICATE;— One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, 1388.
To H. F. Kugelmasn, Esq.'
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. 1 consulted
more than one doctor , and during that time took a (treat
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but 1 became worse oven day, toasting await until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill 1 consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. J agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken had one morning, and
•vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County Of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Peter Smythb, J.P.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. !)d. and 4s. 6d.,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-,street, Sydney, Agents.
N
OTICE.—W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in anv way.


UJ
AUCTIONEERS AND GENERAL AGENTS,
CORNER
.Queen’s treat and Flinders Lane,
BRANCH OFFICES:
32 Cli" pel Street, Prahran;
2 Albert Street, Windsor,
MELBOURNE
Or, H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS & IMPORTERS OP
PpiFg PjO OPPg,
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South of Hunter Street
;gggf«!
W*:
Sol|, Agents foi—
HENRY HEATH*
Oxford Street, London.
DOWS
['■EMBROCATION
mnlt
(Hi \\
y
EV/ERVW!'
fm
3/6
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Harvey’s
Pate'.t Electric Head Battery, Self-applied and pain-
less. Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet free. Collins Street' East. Melbourne.
BOBLINCffiR’S OSSAMPAGMB.
3DIRY EXTEA Q,TJ -A.XjXT"X”.
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES-
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SORIN’S BRANDY,
In Bidk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THIS BEST. *
Otto San.d.er «Se Co., 336 3Slezx'fc~s't:., Sydney,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
%
=3>.
i
&
■
m
YORK S T -W YN YAR D-SQUARE
■>• SYDNEY*
I*- Send for catalogue
h
H. I&. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
B, MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
'Of » and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers;—J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Rigby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener,
Scott, Webley, Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George*
street, Sydney. Price list on application.
Facial Blemishes — 8a SS\S™" r '
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
AddressHERR H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty, ” Brice, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
"T^rOTICE.— -Advertisements for Current Week
JLnI cannot be received LATER than 1 p.in. on
TUESDAY.
P'rees Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■;
Ifautingtou Mill
Knowles’ rumps.
& LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
Aco.,
&C.|
&c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
STnDKTEJY, 3XT.S/W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
Wcstlnghouse Kngiiirf).
s
HIGHLY NUTRITJVh'
MAY Bt OBTAINI-D IN LABFMfJQ TINS OR PAOKFTS THROUGHOUT THt COLONY
drink
'> V:•
n.
fu mi" V?
UNA
JUL
HAM
RAN
AMPA
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
43:t Itoiirke Street, Salisbury ItuiNlingA,
MELBOURNE.
N°
>W HEADY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
Price, Is. All Agenta and Booksellers.
J. E. Salier & Co.
IMTOSTKKS OF
€fcts Flgnuii’iiprs Fittings,
LrtrtßKßS k GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
ME
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVES
Of Various Patterns,
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
