

A : 1C IE N*S ALE.
“ DICKENS’ ” WHISKY.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST 11ST THE MARKET.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND StPPLIEB TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATT WOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
George and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
For Apartments, Addreas, “ Manager**
FRY
MALTED COCOA.
Si
h
«■
to«*?S3
uri!u%*
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-86, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO..
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
A POSITIVI CUBE.
TAR. BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Pwvatb
•C Nanyone, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, lor two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
f.
o*
M
f H£
in
Th.e Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Pboprxetob.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gaspittbbb, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
HOII.FK SKATES (any make) with BUASS or WOOBESf WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices —11,000 Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance
Bon Accord Works, » Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
TABLE D'HOTE PARISIENNE, 2s. 64.
(Wink Includhd).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
:
Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Booms for Dinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS ton PARTIES up to FORTY.
Service a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN owr SUNDAYS.
Burners from, 3s. 6d. upwards,
Estra Dinners at a Few Minutes' Notice.
J. & c.
POINTS OP SUPERIORITY,
I.—Steel drag bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
3.—Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
3. All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4. —Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
6. —Machine will start on dead centre without back*
ing horses in heaviest crops.
m
Prizes Won* 1890
g
{ Prizes Won* 1880
HOWARD STEEL ORIENT MOWER.
HOWARD’S OIRIIBIISrT BAEZES.
Moward’s A.nglo A.merioaxi Rakea.
280| PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Cold Medal
Acknowledged
The Best
The Bulletin
Yol. lI—No. 572.]
[Saturday, January 31, 1891.


TOBACCO
K
DIXSON*SONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dizson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,5921 bi
more, and in 18S9 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. moi
American Leaf than all the rest of New Sout
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
■ale of any in Australia are—
6U£
a
o
43
o
JO
M
SIR ROGER
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD KILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Rowland’s
#•''»* pure!? »tooth r powder,' and
[warranted free froin aeids or other ingredients which
iwounmiu ««vslu ttwuo ui Otuci AUgruuiUUlH Will CIS
■destroy the enamel; it whitens the teeth,prevents and
Wests "decay, strengthens, the gums. ■ and \ gives id
pleasing fragrance to tho breath.
a boo thing,-healing - and emollient mlllT'lof fhT’ftfc®
end hands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the>
'skin in hot olimatro ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn,!
toughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cutaneous’
kruptions, &c., soothes and heals prickly heat, stings:
£of insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irritation]
more effectually than any other preparation, and pro-1
Jfluces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion ;]
Itis .warranted harmless, and free from any lead of
poisonous ingredients. ,
ROWLAND'S EyiOBIA, a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
[bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com.
tplexion; in three tints —white, cream, and rose. Ask
'any .chemist or druggist for Rowland’s.articles.
AUTION.
jfTChe extraordinary reput alien of Rowland’s Macassar
®ilj Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
[offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared is -confined
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 20,’
flatten Garden, London, and therefore it is highly,
(necessary to. buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
[except those made by them, their,
name in red ink on the wrappers.
Por Christmas Presents and Few Pear Gifts
SEND TO OR CALL AT
FRED C. PASSA U ’ S,
Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician,
494 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. the Markets),'
Who has just opened out his Christmas Stock of Gold and
Silver Watches, superior Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Electro-plated Ware, Spectacles, Opera and Field Glasses.
Brazilian Pebble Spectacles, with case, 4s. 6d. per pair.
Silver Hunting Patent Lever Watches from £S S«. to £7.
Jewellery Made to Order and Promptly Repaired.
Complete Price Liet sent Post Free on Application.
Goods forwarded by Post Free of Charge.
NEVER TRAVEL WITHOUT IT.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
&
EFFECTUALLY DESTROYS.
AiLNOXIOUS
FLEAS. FU ES,BEETLES MOSQU ITOES
jCOCKROACHES ARD IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE.
HARM LESS TO BIRDS DOG
FOWLS OROTHER
AN MALS -
g
*. o'
i" *<#,<> , 0 <
? # r
SOI D
rtN tiM r >.
upwards
fit joists
'AND STjORIK£Xf ER'S
WMQCISf.U
FELTON* CRIMWADEVC?
:r MELBOURNE-r
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE. '
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
'' •
m
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Peiuuns’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label. Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse & BlarJcicell, London, §c., se.
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter ot the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A iOOOft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS. Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
5868 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY*
Bat* always in stock tor sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only,
rue
SOVAC
EDINBURGH
cast lc
A * *
SCOfCHWHISKY
eitJJhtjpttUou
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Glass, China and
EARTHENWABB.
WINES. BEERS Jc SPIRITS,
AND OBNB&AD
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
LUCIEN FOUCAULD & 00,’S
Old Brandies.
J. T. GAYEN’S,
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex,
A. MELVIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S
“ Pelican ” Stout.
• The Royal Edinburgh Castle ” old Scotch Whiskies.
Golden Shanty,
PMOE-ONE SHILLING.
WHITE ROSE
The Streetest nf 9.11 sweet nrlmirs TTie
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atkinson’s. Beware of Imitations.
ATKINSON'S
EATI BE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
is one of the most refreshing Perfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the Tnest.
Of all Dealers.
.i. & E. ATKINSOK,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shie
shape blue and yellow label and usual
. Trade Mark—a “ White Kose ”
and address in lull
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BY—
Consulting R. J. POULTON Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Consult personally or by letter.
Pi-Q N.V
r <s>'j\gr
.Victoria.
Cbaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
__ South Australia,.
.Cavendish Chambers. Grenfell Street.
J. £. Mathew Vin cent. {Chief Commissioner)
Cornwall Buildings , 35 Queen Victoria 5t
LONDON B. C-
cc
-A. G-OIJDIEDSr SHANTY:”
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
99
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price
ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit 11200. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. lie claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONICand SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
Nervous 33 <3to iliiyy-
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the Victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B. —TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2. -AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3. —“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstru ■
lions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
O' £*-
i'T
ĝ
ğ
SUFFERING FROM
GRAHi & NERVE EXHAUSTION.
Any man who in his youth has trifled away Ids vigour
<f lioiiy, mind, and manhood, should consult FIIO-
FKSSOU CAUL STINKWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of ihe Genito-Urinary Organs, who is still
treating wi.h the greatest skill and success all Private,
Nervous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S great success, which has
become so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts: —lst. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
thus starling aright. 2nd. The Medicines and Electric
Appliances used are exactly adapted to suit the case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I,SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Decline, dc., can
recover ihe same degree of health, strength,
and energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by letter, which is free),
Professor CARL STINEWAY, who has restored
thousands of sufferers to vigorous manhood
after all other treatment had failed. It makes
no difference what you have taken, or who has
failed to cure you. Cases that / accept for treat-
ment are quickly and permanently cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION; —Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the pow nof will and action? Aro
you subject to loss of memory; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
fits of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains 1 Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
and energy for business pursuits 7 Are you subject
to restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
the heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
to society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
symptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a single
consultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed
OD the way to health strength, and vigour 1
VARICOCELE easily and
quickly cured toy my only
Genuine Electric Appliance,
toy Royal Letters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who desire
treatment without delay can, by forward-
ing a full description of their case and
jei, receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though all others have failed
In your case. / will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure in all cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FREE. Medicines
sent secure from observation to any part of
Australasia.
“From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
and entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion, Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
man; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all cases un-
dertaken, and no promises made that age, in-
tegrity, and long experience do not justify.
My HYGIO-ELECTRIC APPLIANCES (by
Royal Letters patent) are the only genuine
Belts and Trusses in Australia.
Address—
Professor CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
MELBOURNE, Victoria.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Soxxxetjlxixxg' HXT e'w.
YOUR NAME neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautiful
Embossed VISITING CARDS, comprising Floral
Landscape, Sea View, Bird, &c. No two alike. ALL
FOR ONE SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agents
wanted. Samples free. Address—
Austral Card ami Novelty Co.,
14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Eucauypte Oil.
W\
P
T
TREi
Six
Victory Ointment
X 3 xa. so. C 3 sl aa. Ross,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON’T El El MECBIVI3D.
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Extract — there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption-, Dronchiiis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs, For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, < ouglis, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its rise. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. RgT" For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special 01. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
E
'A7ISY PILLS are “better than
Sloe I, Pennyroyal, or Ergot. Cures
obstructions from whatever cause.
Xovcr fails. No I*lll3 or
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER. P.O. Box 100, Melbourne.
* GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING,
n Handsome Cloth Binding, 2s 6d, post paid 3
Book of' 3KTa/fcia.x’e
la
sa»
SM
....
: / 7
m
em
' 12-
'l6'
Book cszf 3STa/fcia.:r©.
BOOK of NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide.—A full and explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married*
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should lie, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &0., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” 6d.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
c
SffililiiiiS
THE
o
£
<a
%
gaypsvr-
«>
aW^’
-
P 52
fr\
CL-
'V
A
~, AGENTS
New South Wales.
TR I UM PH
ofThe over Rad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Erandy. TRY IT.
m
ini
■•f * ■
I Dr. M. PDHR"ST P
M.E.C.S., L.b.A , &c.,
'SPECIALIST for the Treatment of Nervous
Complaints, Diabetes, Tumors, &c.
Registered hy the Medical Board of N.S. W. Late House Sur-
geon to the Great northern Hospital , London.
1 am aware that I am not strictly following the paths
Of professional etiquette by advertising myself as a
Specialist for the ti eatmrnt of this olassof disease, but,
unfortunately for the suffering public in Australia, the
apathy shown by Qualified Men in the treatment of
Chronic and Nervous Complaints has induced men of the
lowest grade of intellect (whose only qualifications are
unlimited assurance) to spring up, and by specious
advertisements and false promises trap the unwary.
It is very evident that sufferers from these diseases
have been scandalously treated by these unqualified
persons The evidence taken at the Medical Enquiry
held in Sydney (published in the Daily Telegraph, Nov.
6th. 7th and Bth. 1890) plainly shows the disgraceful
manner in which patients are duped. Not only are
they robbed of their money, but what is of infinitely
greater importance, their health is injured also. It is
therefore time that Legally Qualified Men entered the
field to fight these pests of society with their own
weapons, viz., Advertising.
It is utterly impossible for those who are suffering
from the»e diseases, who are scattered over all parts of
Australasia, to ascertain which Qualified Practitioner
makes these diseases his speciality unless he advertises.
I consider, therefore, that by advertising I not only
strike a blmo at the Quackery which noio exists, but T also add
to the nsefuhiess of my profession and in no way lessen my
personal dignity.
My Qualifications I invite the fullest investigation into. For some considerable time I was House Surgeon to the
Great Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of observing the many phases of the Nervous and
Sexual System, and to become acquainted with the most scientific methods of ollecting their cure.
My sole attention is given to the treatment of these diseases, and when a person consults me he is informea at the
commencement whether I can effect his cure or not. The patient is not deluded with false and specious promises, and
if I undertake the case
5 AUsolsitely Guarantee a Complete and Permanent Cure.
My great success in the treatment of those diseases enables me to give this guarantee without fear.
EfcB&IEBIILY MKSi. MStW, AMBB YOUHTGr lliS
Suffering from Impaired Vitality should send for my Work on Diseases of the Reproductive Organs, ivhich,in addition to explaining
my method of treatment, contains many useful hints as to '■'elf Afanngement, the observance of which is of great use to all t and in many
instances is sufficient t> check the progress of di'ease. This Hook will be forwarded Free on application.
J’atients residing at a distance can be treated at their own homes ivithout interruption to their business. Medicines packed and sent
free from observation to nil parts of Australasia.
' Varioccle quickly 'm l permanently cured without operation. Diabetes and Tumors treated by a totally new method of Cutaneous
Medication. Consultation Hours—From 10 a.m. to t p.m. daily (except Sundays) ; and from 7 to 9 p.m.on Tuesday and Saturday
evenings. Consultation [either by letter or in person) Free.
Address all Communications
Dr. M. PEEUY, M.E.C.S., L.S.A., &0., Elmley House, 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
N B—l would advise all persons before consulting specialists to ascertain if they are really Duly Qualified Practi-
tioners, or only advertising frauds,
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Medical.
X3x>.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome big
friends and patients; during his consulting hours,
at his new address;
34 COLLEGE STE.EET, SYDNEY,
V -I-2X
□
n i
I A_r| ll' a!
m
u
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time, to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
i has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his, success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION EKEE.


T. KOBZMSOBJ cfc CJO*-., Lalmlted)
.--r
• i-' r,'
mi
: .V-.i
BmmMsm
SS£iz£^SBS8*
■ ■
as/ ft
~WB
Sac ;>u* - «-"■——'
r>*
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. E. AND Co.’s I mproved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid.
T. 11. and Co.’s DAM-SINKING or UOAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. R. and Co.’s New DRAIN FORMERS.
T. R. and Co.’s* “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OYER BOX WOOL-
PRESS —the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. AND Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESSES
T. R. and Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. AND Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
Mew Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder*
:
407 & 4G9 E3llza,t>eitts. Street,
MELBOXTR.KTB
Purest and Cheapest
Offices and Works;
Superior Cooling Chambers for Butchers
and Others.
G
Regent Street,
s’srroiKrns'x'.
Ice Carefully Packed and sent to any part of the Colony.
33aily Deliveries in City and, Svs.lt> vir to s.
ġ
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for our Now Illustrated Sports and Game Catalogue.
■WEI LEAD! COMPETITION E’OX^X^O'WS!
CRICKETING & LAWN TENNIS REQUISITES:
Shaw Sc Shrewsbury's
g
Second Quality,
ALL-CANE
HANDLE,
Good Value,
Price, 10s. each.
Superior All-Cane
CRICKET BATS,
Price, 12s. 6d.
each.
All-Cane
Spring-Handle
CRICKET BATS
(selected),
Price, 17s. 6d.
each.
WARSOP & SON'S
Best Quality,
Price, 225. 6d.
each.
Send for
NEW ILLUSTRATED SPORTS
CATALOGUE of GAMES.
YOUTHS’ BEST
CHAMOIS LEATHER
LEG-GUARDS.
Gs Cd pair.
CAPE KID LEG-GUARDS,
Splendid Value,
Price ... 10s pair.
SUPERIOR ,T ANNE I) KID
LEG-G U ARDS,
Cane-protected,
Price, 13s 6d pai r and IGs Gd
pair.
CRICKET BALLS,
Duke’s Superior ... 9s Gd
Ditto Best, 7s Gd
Tennis S’olcs.- Cavendish L. T. Poles, with
steam-tarred canvas top, copper wire bound,
net, at d Hope’s Patent Net Adjuster. Price,
82s, (id, per set, complete.
A DEAD SHOT.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE
DAISY” Rifle.
This Rifle is built on the 1873 model, and is so constructed as to form one of the Most Correct
Markers known. It is of Unerring Accuracy, with the Latest Improvement. Made in 44- and 32- Calibre
15 shots, 44 calibre, octagon barrel, sighted 300 yards .. Price 82s Cd each
15 shots, round „ „ „ .. Price’ 7Ts Cd each
6 shots, 32 calibre, octagon „ „ „ .. Price, 90s Od each
1° shots, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .. Price, 90s Od each.
FOR SATISFACTORY RESULTS, USE THE “DAISY.”
TESTIMONIAL.—Dear Sirs,—Herewith I beg to inform you that the “ Daisy ” Rifle I purchased
--* “‘“j' uicimuu tuav i nave recommended
several ot my friends to send you an order, and some of them have seen me use it, and are hio-hly pleased
with the shooting I have done with it. I have killed kangaroos at 200 yards with the rifle” Jambs H
Byrnes, Coobothery, Lachlan River.
%W° Where can I get my Gun repaired at a Moderate Cost ?
We have often been asked this question by customers, and respectfully notify that we have fitted
up a workshop on the premises for all kinds of REPAIRS TO FIREARMS executed by skilled artisans
equal to the best London and Birmingham workmanship. Guns Rebored, Guns Restocked Barrels
Rebrowned or Blued. Gun-locks carefully adjusted. Any job in the Gunsmith’s Trade guaranteed
equal to London workmanship at moderate charges. Guns sent down from the country for Cleaning
Renovating or Repairing receive every attention.
MAGNIFICENT STOCK OF GUNS AND AMMUNITION.
LAWN TENNIS RACQUETS,
"-V-.
X
sc
I-awu Tennis
Balls.
AYRES’ Regulation
Grey Uncovered,
7s 6d doz.
~ ditto, best quality
10s Cd.
~ Terra Cotta Un-
covered, 12s 6d.
~ White Enamelled
Uncovered, 12s 6d
~ ditto Champion-
ship Covered, 15s
6d.
A 1 Crown Champion
Covered, 11s 6d
First Prize:
MELB 3UENE EXHIBITION.
XSwing* , s Indelible
Marking*
Approved and
the Elite
Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
op the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist ‘I have examined Ewing's Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended.—Signed, War. Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists. Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, ’ T V A. Ewing,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, MELBOI II X I’.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlae Brigb.tozi o±’ South Wales,
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
3EWEAN.TtdL!HXVTS3 u JA3E2ISFE. . . Froprietress.
-E3!sl,£S£3 7 Ale
(MW
;>, ,v
MU
(if
mm
(Wytm
ite
a-nlmaess’ HESrsi-tr’ca, Stout
FOSTER'S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
absot,: pure,
ami are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
FREEHOLD INVESTMENT and DEPOSIT BANE,
ITS HPi't'fc Street, S'SrXS3XTES'Sr
(Nearly opposite Australian Star Office).
Fixed Deposits received, in any sum, and interest payable quarterly, as under, viz.:—
12 months 9 per cent.
0 months 8J per cent.
6 months 8 per cent.
:i months 6 per cent.
Depositors for i and ." years recei veil) per cent:., and in addition a bonus of 1 per cent, per annum. Remittances
receivable by cheque and deposit receipt forwarded. Promissory Notes Discounted on deposit deeds without
delay. Prompt Advances made on Land and Freehold Property, in town or country. All correspondence
immediately replied to. ' EDVVD. A. MORGAN, Secretary.
L
*
we;
NJXWORTH
■f
m
ifli
? w
w*
K
&c*
a-.
Gw
aiiiiirtM' -• WllBlif
• j—jsg^gig^
Wwsrih Hold,
CHURCH HILL,
SYDNEY.
For a Residential Hotel
the site is unequalled,
being quiet, healthy, and
central, opposite public
reserve, and within easy
walking distance of the
G.P.0., Public Offices,
Banks, Theatres and
Trams.
The accommodation and
attendance are excellent.
Terms Moderate.
Hrs. Hayes,
Proprietress.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 572.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, 1891.
Price, 6d
THEY KNEW NO BETTER.
"At the inauguration of the statue to Dr. Lang, Governor Jersey, in rising to respond to the vote of thanks, met with a very hearty reception. He agreed that it was a fitting time to
make the acquaintance of the people of New South Wales on the occasion of a national celebration of this sort He was in thorough sympathy with the object of the gathering.”
—Daily paper.
STATUE OF DR. LANG: “ Excuse me, gentlemen, but it makes nip laugh to think that the first official act of a new vice-royalty should be to do honour to a Republican,
whose whole life was spent in trying to abolish Royalty!"


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’'
Proprietors ; BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TEEMS TO SUBSGRIBEES
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly ... ® 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
•o be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —•
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
S^^xxlle&n.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 31, 1891.
How Rent Goes Up.
Whenever a new volume of statistics is
published, or a new work on political
economy comes to light, it invariably con-
tains the gratifying information that the
world keeps on growing richer, and it
demonstrates the fact by evidence that is
absolutely indisputable. Every year adds to
the wealth of the globe, and however
rapidly population may grow wealth grows
still faster. The total amount per head of
the human race is not actually large, but it
is steadily increasing; and as the increase
always keeps a little ahead of the census re-
turns the prospective wealth of mankind is
apparently limited only by the duration of
the human race, and thus there is always in
view, somewhere far in front, a shadowy age
of gold, when poverty will cease because
there will be too much wealth in existence
to allow of any one remaining poor. Yet it
always remains in front, and never, by any
chance, comes any nearer. It is in the older
and more crowded communities that wealth
grows most rapidly, and there poverty also
grows more vigorously than anywhere else
on earth, and while wealth multiplies faster
than population, poverty also multiplies faster
than wealth, and hunger is seemingly created
by gold and not by scarcity. In new countries,
such as Australia or the Argentine Con-
federation, the great demand is for men, and
it is the accepted axiom that inhabitants
must be obtained in order to create pros-
perity, and consequently emigration is en-
couraged and the “opening up of the
country ” is the prospective remedy for all
evils ; in old countries it is an equally
recognised axiom that it is population which
is the cause of poverty. England sends her
people to Australia because their presence
creates want, and Australia accepts them
because their presence is to create wealth,
The one state complains because it has only
4.000. inhabitants, and the other com-
plains still more because it has nearly
40.000. and each one assumes that
it is to grow rich by the process
which has made the other poor ; and
each grows rich on paper, and both grow
poor in reality in inverse proportion to their
wealth. x\nd yet it seems to occur to neither
that there must be some cause at work which
produces poverty equally in the country
which is empty and in the country which is
full—which makes the masses die of hunger
as freely when the national wealth is in-
creasing as when it is diminishing ; and that
when the increase of the census returns has
brought nothing but misery, in Europe, it is
small cause for congratulation if the popula-
tion of New South Wales keeps on growing,
* * • '
Many years ago Australia was, in a certain
sense, the paradise of Labour. There was
no population worth mentioning in the
country in*those days, and civilisation had
hardly begun. There were no railways to
open up the continent, and thus add to the
national wealth, and there was practically no
capital. The enhanced value of land now
forms the greatest part of the nation’s re-
sources, but at that period land was almost
valueless, and as for the cities which are
such conspicuous proofs of progress, they
were still unbuilt. Among the territories
occupied by the Anglo-Saxon race Australia
was one of the poorest, yet wages were com-
paratively high and want was almost un-
known. It is the custom to ascribe this
result exclusively to the gold discoveries of
these early days, but even gold-seeking was
an unprofitable industry compared with
those which have succeeded it, and it was
pursued under difficulties which ought,
judged by later conditions, to have made it
well nigh ruinous. In the richest era of old
Bendigo the wealth of Australia, in propor-
tion to population, was probably not more
than half what it is to-day ; and of the
elaborate machinery which now enables one
man to produce more than was produced by
ten in that halcyon past when once the
alluvial had gone, there was hardly even
the beginning of a trace. The country
was rich through the want of almost every-
thing which ought to have produced riches,
and poverty only started when civilisation
appeared, with all its appliances for the
creation of prosperity.
* * *
The change was a very gradual one. The
introduction of machinery enabled the work-
man who had hitherto produced £5 worth of
goods per week to produce £5O worth in-
stead, and straightway, because he earned
more, his wages became less. The building
of x’ailroads led to a vast expansion of agri-
culture and commerce and made the land
valuable that had hitherto been valueless ;
and the growth of the wool industry brought
a steadily-increasing income into the country;
and through this additional wealth wages
fell still lower, and an unemployed difficulty
began to spring up. In the primitive days
there were practically no means of making a
livelihood except by manual labour, but the
advance of civilisation opened a thousand
new occupations, and created a demand
for lawyers, clerks, politicians, policemen,
soldiers, preachers, agents, financiers, pawn-
brokers, jewellers, civil servants, flunkeys,
and innumerable others, and that great
economising process known as the division
of labour set in. Consequently, instead of
there being one hundred actual producers
out of every hundred consumers, there were
probably not more than fifty, but though
the number of available workers diminished
in proportion to population the only result
was that the workers began to be out of
work and hungry. The great want of earlier
days was capital as a means of affording
employment, but when capital came and
afforded employment there was apparently
less employment and less remuneration than
before. The next great want was popula-
tion to turn the barren plains into a garden,
and the population came freely and turned
the plains into a garden more or less, and
enriched the country immensely in the pro-
cess ; and half the inhabitants grew poorer
as the immediate consequence. Every
single essential which, according to poli-
ticians and political economists, could be
wanted to make Australia prosperous was
supplied, and nine-tenths of the Australian
people went down-hill in consequence. The
average mechanic now produces at least
twice as much actual wealth as the pro-
sperous gold-digger of 40 years ago, but the
days of gold are gone none the less. Even
the capitalist—considered apart from the
landlord—has been left behind through this
process of prosperity, for the investments
which once brought him in from 12 to 20
per cent, now realise no more than 6 or 8 ;
and the decline will inevitably go on until
the value of money sinks to the English
level, and even 5 per cent, is practically
unattainable.
• # *
In short, the proportion of wealth to each
inhabitant has doubled and trebled, and
consequently the income of each inhabitant
should also have increased in like propor-
tion ; but instead of this wages have
diminished, and interest has diminished,
while rent has increased till it has swallowed
up everything else. It is the peculiarity of
rent that it always increases, and it is prac-
tically the only thing on earth that does so.
Wages, interest, and rent are the three items
which absorb the income of the world, and
of these two are perpetually tending down-
wards, while the third consumes not only
what they lose but all the rest of the world’s
prosperity. Some 400 years ago the legal
rate of interest in England was 45 per cent.,
and at that time the wages of the English
workman were —according to the value of
money at the period—nearly three times the
present average. During four centuries of
prosperity the wealth of the country has
increased at least six times faster than the
population, but yet wages have sunk over 50
per cent., and interest has diminished nearly
90 per cent., and rent has devoured not only
all they lost, but all the accumulations of the
nation besides. In like manner Australia
has made enormous advances in the century
of its existence, but for everybody except
the landlord it is a poorer country than it
was when it emerged from the preliminary
stage of convictism, and made its first
beginning as an alleged free settlement.
# <# #
When tie workmen of Australia,, or of
any other land, attempt-to wrest from their
employers an infinitesimal advance of wages,
there instantly arises a riot and a clamour
that shakes the earth upon its foundations,
and a conviction spreads that the end of
society is approaching and anarchy is at
hand. Yet every day and every hour the
landlord keeps raising his eharges to a
degree that no trades-union has yet dreamt
of, and no one imagines that any disaster is
going to ensue. The proprietor who owns
a patch of soil in George-street, Sydney,
now receives £lOO in rent where he obtained
no more than £3 some sixty years ago ; yet
what howl of execration would be loud
enough to express the public feeling regard-
ing the artisan who demanded £lOO per
week on that same spot, because he or his
father had been paid at the rate of £3 away
back in the year 1831; or how could words
be found with which to curse the banking
monopoly which charged 800 per cent, on
an overdraft because the primitive bank of
1831 charged nine. The individual who
made a serious attempt to enforce either of
these claims would scarcely even be argued
with—he would merely be shunted into a
lunatic asylum as an incurable person who
was past all sense or reason, yet the landlord
makes even more astounding exactions as a
matter of course, and no one shunts him
into any lunatic asylum, or treats him other-
wise than as a reasonable being with a
right to be at large. The human race
endures him wherever the civilisation, of
which he is an essential part, has travelled ;
and it does this merely because man-
kind is essentially stupid and ignorant
and slow of comprehension. Even
in its most advanced state it simply
imitates the foolishness of its fathers, and
because they regarded the landlord as a
necessary institution it does the same. Yet
the fact that nine-tenths of the European
race are unable to realise the possibility of
abolishing landlordism is absolutely no proof
that landlordism is a necessity. It is com-
paratively only a few decades since the
same enlightened race regarded monarchs,
likewise, as a heaven-sent .institution, but
the establishment of some twenty republics
within the present century has effectually
demonstrated that the world can get along
without monarchs, and presently it will
make the same discovery with regard to the
landed proprietor.
# # *
The unwritten principle of political
economy is that wages must be kept down
to the lowest point at which the wage-earner
can eke out a subsistence, and that interest
always tends to the lowest minimum which
will make it worth while to lend money at
all instead of allowing it to rust in a hole or
in a box, while rent grabs all the rest. If the
wage-earner produces goods to the value of
£lO weekly, he probably receives 30s. ;
and if, by some improvement in machinery
he is enabled to make goods to the value of
£5O he probably receives 255. instead of
305., because the improvement enables the
manufaetui’er to dispense with a certain
number of workmen, and increases the com-
petition for employment. Yet as soon as
the new process ceases to be a monopoly,
and comes into general use, the manufacturer
also ceases to benefit to any great extent,
for the reduction in prices brings his profits
down to the old figure, and the only sign
that a great addition has been made to the
national wealth is a general rise in rents.
If there come a series of magnificent harvests
the wages of the agricultural-labourer
remain the same, but rents go up. When
a great coal deposit is struck the coal-miner’s
income keeps its old level, but there is
a boom in rents in the vicinity. And if the
commerce of a great city increases, and the
rates of discount diminish, and interest falls
to 3 per cent., the only result is that the
city grows in importance and rents ascend
with a rush. Australia has paid back all the
wealth of Bendigo and Ballarat and Gympie
and Charters Towers in the increased rents
which these gold discoveries have created,
and if the system of landlordism continues
the Australian people will pay them back
twenty times over, and when they have done
that they will still keep on paying them, and
be as far from the end as ever.
9 * •
The Australian census is compiled this year,
and when the progress of the past decade is
calculated, it will probably be found that a
great advance has been made since the cen-
sus of ten years ago. In all Australia, how-
ever, The Bulletin is probably the only
paper which cares not one solitary curse
what these results may be. The Australian
workman is certain to be a loser in any case.
If population has increased it is only a
reliable sign that wages will come down and
rents will rise, for wages invariably come
down and rents always rise under such
circumstances. If the total wealth of|,the
continent amounts—as it possibly may—to
something like £1,000,000,000, the conse-
quence is that wages are lower and rents
higher than when the total was only one-
twentieth of that sum; and if the average
proportion of riches is £250 for every Aus-
tralian inhabitant—and it doubtless will
reach that figure sooner or later —the only
result will be that the workman will have
less and the landlord will have more than
when the whole property of the Australian
people only amounted to £lOO per head. If
a great influx is in progress from other lands
then therevwill be a boom in city property,
and if new railways and other public works
are advancing rapidly there will be a boom
in eountry property, and in either case the
toiler will find it a little harder to get a sub-
sistence than before. In any and every ease
the nation in general will get a bare living
and the landlord will get the rest. Civilisa-
tion in its complete and perfect form* is built
entirely on this great principle. The British
aborigine of Eastern London is not half so
well supplied with the necessaries of life as
the British aoorigine whose whoop irritated
Julius Cassar —nineteen hundred years of
progress have all gone in rent.
* * *
As the last decade has been so the next
decade will be. When the owner of the
big stone building in George-street, Sydney,
strikes for a rise of 50 per cent, there will
be a paragraph in the paper about the amaz-
ing progress of New South Wales, and when
the artizan who repairs the roof of the same
place strikes for a rise of 2jr per cent, there
will be a six-column article stating that he
is undermining the foundations of society,
and several hundred special constables will
be sworn in. When the rent of the huge
central tailoring emporium goes up £lOOO a
year at one fatal jump it will be a sign of the
wondei’ful commercial enterprise of the Aus-
tralian people, and when the proprietor helps
to get square by reducing the wages of the
little girlwho grinds the sewing machine, from
10s. to Bs. a week, that will be entirely owing
to the immutable laws of demand and supply.
If a Protectionist Government comes into
office in New South Wales and imposes
duties to the amount of £1,000,000 per
annum there will be a long, wild, vociferous
wail stating that the country is busted up,
and if the landlord imposes duties to the
same amount it will be felt that Providence
is keeping its beneficent eye on this favoured
land. And people in general will probably
believe these statements, because they have
heard that when rents go up it is a sign of
national prosperity, till at last they are
unable to realise that the statement is turned
upside down, and that natural prosperity is
merely a sign that rents will go up.
Parkes and the Sabbath.
Premier Park.es, of N.S. Wales, says that it is
illegal to deliver Sunday lectures in a theatre,
and that he cannot allow them to be delivered
without breaking the law. This is a mistake.
If it had been said by a man notoriously dis-
honest and untruthful instead of by Parkes,
we should have called it an audacious lie. The
Sydney Socialist League has been holding its
Sunday services for some time past in a hall
that has grown too small for the congregation.
It had to procure more roomy quarters, and as
neither of the local cathedrals was available
for any body of men who look for the regenera-
tion of mankind without the intervention of
stall-fed clergymen, they hired a theatre ; and
were at once fixed by the eagle eye of the
guardians of Sydney morality— Parkes and the
police. Inspector Lenthall promptly in-
formed the lessee of the theatre that, by
allowing the Socialists to preach their doc-
trines there, he was endangering his license.
No lessee was ever warned that his license
was in danger for allowing the Y.M.C.A.
or a Methodist preacher to use the theatre
on Sunday night. But, the propertied classes
have nothing to fear from the Y.M.C.A. The
plundering of the people might proceed merrily
for ages if they would only go on listening to
the clergy about the duty of ordering them-
selves lowly and reverently before their betters
in that station of life to which it had pleased
God t® call them.
* * #
The Socialists talk in another key. They
have something to say about the rights of the
people; and the Government of the people
won’t stand it. The Socialists must be gagged,
and as the days have gone by when a Parkes
could dragoon and Nordenfeldt his opponents
into silence, they were shut up in a more
roundabout way. The man who rented them a
room was told that his license was in danger ;
if he didn’t turn out his tenants, Parkes
would drive him into bankruptcy. It was
not put exactly in that way, but that
was the plain English of it. The theatre
lessee naturally grew anxious about his bread
and butter, and told the League that they must
get a permit from Parkes or stop the lectures.
And Parkes wouldn’t give the permit, because
he said the law wouldn’t let him. Parkes’
reverence for truth is only equalled by his
enthusiasm for the sacredness of the Sabbath,
and his steadfast, unwavering loyalty to the
—th Commandment.
# * *
There is no law on the New South Wales
Statute-book that makes it illegal to deliver
socialistic or any other lectures on Sunday.
Parkes has the same right to hire a halt and
talk tommyrot about political economy, or
exhibit his brawling ignorance on any other
subject under heaven, that Bishop Smith and
Cardinal Moran have to expound the advan-
tages of their rival routes to the regions of the
blest. The law of the land is so liberal in
allowing freedom of speech that it would not
even draw the line at an address from Parkes
on commercial morality. The Supreme Court
could draw no distinction between a lecture
delivered in a theatre on Sunday night, and a
sermon delivered in a church. Even the enact-
ment of George 111., under which the saintly
Walker recovered judgment for £2OO last year
against theatrical lessee Solomon refers only to
entertainments “to which persons shall be
admitted by the payment of money or by
tickets sold for money,” and that Act would
apply no less to St. Mary’s Cathedral or the
Pitt-street tabernacle than to the Theatre Royal
or a penny gaff.
# * *
To say that there is anything illegal in free
Sunday deliverances in a New South Wales
theatre is to talk sheer nonsense. But thait
doesn't dispose of the question. The S.M.
Herald tries to snuff out the Socialist league
by saying that if their action is legal they don’t
want a permit, and if it is illegal Parkes has
no power- to give- them a permit. --The dilemma


To “Bulletin” Readers.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, unit greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and. naming
any-reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
looks very pretty in a leader, but it is not the
question. Parkes, with all his professed sim-
plicity about the law of the matter, knows too
much to try to shut up men whose doctrines are
obnoxious to him by a prosecution in the Police-
court. That would determine the legality or
illegality of the thing, and great would be the
fall of the censor of Richard Anthony
Proctor. Parkes knows a trick worth two of
that. The proprietor of every theatre and
concert-room in Sydney is absolutely at the
mercy of the censor of free speech, the Colonial
Secretary for the time being ! If any public
entertainment, for admission to which a charge
is made, takes place in any building which the
Colonial Secretary does not choose to license—
and he need give no reasons for his refusal !
the persons concerned in the entertainment and
the owner or occupier of the building are all
liable to penalties of £5O, and the building is
put on the same footing as a brothel. It is
deemed a disorderly house, and any constable
may obtain a warrant to seize every person
found therein, “ and every person so found
shall be deemed to be a rogue and vagabond,
and shall be liable and subject to all such
penalties and punishments as are inflicted on Gl-
are appointed for the punishment of rogues and
vagabonds.” So says the Act 14 Viet., No. 23.
The Colonial Secretary’s license, then, is to the
owner of a theatre what a miner’s right
was in the old days to a Sandhurst digger,
it is his permission to get a living,
and without it he must starve, "if he displease
the Colonial Secretary, the Colonial Secretary
may refuse him a license. The law has nothing
to do with it; the only complaint he can make
against the law is that it has put such a power
in the hands of any man, when that man might
be such a one as Parkes.
* * *
How Parkes is capable of using such a power
we saw when he stopped Richard Anthony
Proctor’s lectures, by threatening the lessees
of Sydney Theatre Royal, just as he has now
stopped the Socialist lectures by threatening
the lessee of the Royal Standard Theatre. We
can see it by the regulation which he framed in
1887 and duly gazetted—that all theatre licenses
should be issued, subject to such limitations as
regards occupation on Sunday as the Czar — no,
the Colonial Secretary may think fit. It is to be
seen in the very terms of the license itself,
which contains a proviso that the theatre
4 4 shall not be used for any performance or
purpose whatsoever on Sundays, Good Friday,
or Christmas Day, without special permission
being first obtained for the particular day
and purpose, fully specified in written appli-
cation to the Colonial Secretary.” Both
the regulation and the proviso have been de-
clared by J udge Windeyer to be outside the
power of the Colonial Secretary to make, and
so they are invalid. But they show that
Parkes is ready to do all he can by purely
arbitrary and tyrannical means to stop the
teaching of any doctrines that he personally
doesn’t approve of. One of the things that by
law he can do is to refuse to issue a license to a
theatre. One of Parkes’ policemen has told
the lessee of the Royal Standard Theatre that
if he allows Socialist lectures to be delivered
there his license is in danger. The only pos-
sible danger to a theatrical license is that
Parkes may refuse to renew it. So what that
warning means, and the only thing it can mean,
is that if doctrines which don’t suit Parkes
are preached in a theatre, Parkes will take the
bread and butter out of the mouths of the lessee
of that theatre. Now, if nothing is to be
said in a theatre on Sunday night that doesn’t
meet with Parkes’ approval, the same law
ought to apply to things said anywhere else on
a Sunday night. If Socialism cannot be preached
because Parkes doesn’t like Socialism, why
should Cardinal Moran be allowed to preach
Popery, which is popularly believed to be
equally obnoxious to Parkes ? And why draw
the line at Sunday night ? Why should any-
thing be written or said or done anywhere or at
any time that doesn’t please Parkes ? The
world won’t commence to go right till Parkes
is put on a golden pedestal, and hailed with
glad hosannas by an adoringly-prostrate uni-
verse.
“Two Notes a Week.”
There are two schools of “ arguefiers ” with
whom it is especially difficult to hold converse
on economic subjects : the unreflective optimist
who unflinchingly asserts that whatever is, is
good, and that no one, however lowly and im-
poverished, has any valid reason to be discon-
tented with “the position in life to which it
has pleased Providence to call her or him ” ;
the purblind pessimist who bewails the iniqui-
ties, inequalities, and inequities of prevailing
conditions, but, denying the possibility of an
alteration, affirms that poverty and crime are
as inevitable as death. Now, the attitude of
the advanced economist towards the social pro-
blem is that of one who recognises and deplores
its evils, but has sufficient faith in human
nature and the earth’s resources to believe that
better things will be attained in the evolu-
tionary course of events. Such a one, by the
way, may be most fitly described as a meliorist,
a term coined by George Eliot for self-
description, but not yet in general circulation.
Erom time to time attempts have been made in
these columns to jphow how the conditions of
Suffering humanity might, in many ways, be
ameliorated, but it is purposed on this occasion
to deal solely with those who aver that the
toilers have no just cause for complaint, any-
where, least of all in Australia, which they
grandiloquently style the “ Working Men’s
Paradise.”
* * *
There are two things to oe considered in
dealing with this subject, first, the average
wage ; second, its purchasing power. Con-
sidering the number of Australian toilers, such
as seamen, wharf and other labourers, hotel-
servants, shopmen, farm-hands, watchmen,
porters, corporation and railway men, petty
clerks and others whose arduous tasks (when
they are fortunate enough to be employed, or
when, in the case of those who live by outdoor
manual labour, the weather permits them to
work) vary from six shillings and sixpence
daily down to the miserable pittance of ten or
fifteen shillings weekly and board—it will
scarcely be urged that when the average wage
of menial labour, head or hand, is set down at
two pounds weekly the sum is underestimated,
that is not a large sum, scarcely adequate to
the weekly wants of one open-hearted person,
yet thousands of men infinitesimally subdivide
it by rash entrance on the cares and responsi-
bilities of matrimony. Morally considered, the
deed is laudable ; looked at from a social stand-
point it is suicidal. The census, of course, is
thereby increased, and the parents, on a smaller
sum (the wife being no longer a wage-
earner, for when the toil of husband and wife
enters into competition, then they are simply
bringing children into the world for the slave-
mart) than that which w'as barely equivalent
to their individual wants, undertake to perform
a dual office—on the man’s part, chiefly as a
toiler for the present generation, on the woman’s
part, chiefly as the trainer and guardian of
those who will perform like services toward the
succeeding generation. The experiment (matri-
mony, under any circumstances, is always an
experiment) usually turns out badly. Why ?
Simply because forty shillings do not contain
within their nineteen hundred and twenty
farthings’ worth of commodities, the tranquil-
lity, homeliness, comfort, cleanliness, amuse-
ment and refinement necessary to the domestic
happiness, the mental, moral and physical wel-
fare of two civilised beings and for the bringing-
up of their offspring in the manner that loving
parents desire and enlightenment demands. Do
you doubt the reasonableness of this statement?
then cast your eye over this table, prepared for
those whom, in all likelihood, nothing short of
the bitter teachings of adversity could inoculate
with humanitarianism. The average working-
man’s family is usually put down as three, and
the maintenance of man and wife and three
little ones, calculated on the lowest basis, will
probably add up in this fashion :
Rent (an underestimate), 10s. ; meat and fish, 7s. ;
bread (8 loaves at (id.), 45.; butter (2lbs. at 15d.), 2s. 6d. ;
milk (8 pints at 2Jd,), Is. Bd.; wood, 2s. (id. ; candles, oil
or gas, soap, starch, blue, blacklead, blacking, &c.,
2s. (id. ; sugar (41bs. at 3d.), Is. ; tea (21bs. at 18d.), 3s. ;
flour and oatmeal, Is. ; mangling, Is. : schooling, 9d.
Total, £1 19s. sd.
This expenditure leaves the magnificent balance
of sevenpence ! for the provision of clothes,
boots, hats, bed-linen, towels, crockery, books,
drugs, beer, tobacco, playthings, delicacies,
articles of feminine adornment, medical aid,
emergencies, friendly-society’s subscription,
travelling and holiday expenses, church money,
and the requisite provision for the proverbial
rainy day.
* * *
Poor little sevenpence, an’ it were beaten out
to the consistency of gold-leaf, it could not
cover such a wide field. “ But it is a mythical
sevenpence ; and has no real existence, for the
balance, in nine hundred and ninety-nine
families out of every thousand, is on the wrong
side of the ledger. Indeed, it is almost impos-
sible to dole out this miserable forty shillings
so as to live better than the beasts and yet
keep out of debt. And what does the continual
overstepping of the narrow margin, week after
week, involve ? Rather ask what it does not
involve. For example, domestic dispeace, a
scheming, scraping and dodging round corners,
a pawning of sheets, blankets, garments, and
boots, a resort to petty subterfuges and miser-
able shifts. It means that the woman’s life is
made unbearable by this dunning and dodging,
and that, after a vain attempt to supplement
the weekly income by her own outside labour,
too often drowning her sorrows in drink, she
drags husband and children down to a still
lower hell of spirit-mortifying, body-ruining,
soul-annihilating degradation. It means more.
It involves the construction and support of
reformatories, training-ships, inebriate and
lunatic asylums, lying-in hospitals, benevolent
asylums, gaols, and the hurried digging of
shallow paupers’ graves. It means national
disgrace, national immorality, and, eventually,
national ruin.
* * *
But what of the oleaginous optimist ? Why,
he smacketh his lips and sayeth : “ Lo, my
waistband is tight and my soul is satisfied !
Wherefore should any born of woman cry
‘ Marah, my cup is bitter !’ ” Yet the groans,
curses and prayers of the held-down, the mal-
treated, the unclean, the insane, the starving,
the socially-slain, go out day and night from
every part of this globe in a never-ebbing wave
of sound, that is swallowed up without rever-
beration or response in the illimitable expanse
of the universe. And even the soul of the
meliorist is sickened, and he gloomily sayeth :
“Verily, the day of reckoning, of atonement,
of setting the social house in order, is long
delayed ! When will the morning break ?”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Another Electoral Reform.
I- N the ordinary course of events there will
shortly he another general election in New
South Wales, and after the manner of a free
and enlightened people the best organised party
will come uppermost. In point of theory every
constitutional country is governed by the
majority ; in reality, it is governed by the
largest liar and the most adroit shuffler. When
the principle of One Man One Vote is estab-
lished by law, the majority will have a some-
what better opportunity of making itself felt
than heretofore, but even then the masses will
continue to be sold by the party of Capital, and
still another reform in the electoral system will
be wanted to make men and not money the
governing power in New South Wales. The
multiple vote of Property has so far been the
principal influence by which the Foreign-trade
aristocracy has held its own against the great
mass of Democratic voters, but though this has
been their chief it has not been their only
reliance, and when the great Property vote is
abolished, the party will merely make a better
use of a certain secondary dodge which has
already done good service, and which will do
still better in the future. The Secret of this
plan lies simply in dividing the votes rf the
Democratic or Protectionist party. In any
electorate where the vote of "bricks and
mortar is comparatively weak, and where the
Nationalist following is strong, it generally
happens that a whole host of candidates goes to
the poll in the Protectionist interest, one of
these being the recognised candidate of the
party, and most of the others mysterious dum-
mies who have no possible hope of success, but
who draw off among them so many votes that
the solid Foreign-trade minority carries the
day. In other words, where only one member
is to be returned, 1000 electors of one party,
voting straight for one man, can retain their
representative over 2000 electors on the opposite
side whose votes are split among four or five
competitors. In comparatively few instances,
in fact, does any member secure a majority of
the votes recorded, and under the existing law
this evil is incurable. The party which repre-
sents money can always put up on the opposite
side a number of bogus politicians to split the
votes of its opponents ; the party which repre-
sents only men has no such resource; and con-
sequently when plural voting is abolished, the
faction of Property will merely require to
organise its campaign on a different system to
accord with the new conditions, and the
venerable game will go on much as before. The
remedy lies in the adoption of the system now
employed by the republicans of France, whereby
no candidate is elected unless lie receives an
absolute majority of all the votes registered.
Thus if, out of 2200 votes, a Foreign-trade
candidate secures 1000, and two Protectionist
candidates 700 and. 500 respectively, a second
ballot would be taken, at which only the first
two candidates would go to the poll, the third
being absolutely excluded. Thus, in place of
an organised minority seizing on the representa-
tion to the exclusion of the disorganised
majority, the question is finally settled by a
contest in which each party is compelled to
give a solid vote, and the minority cannot, by
any possible swindle, gain an undue advantage.
The National party in New South Wales would
gladly support such a system, for it relies
solely on its individual adherents—not on the
underhand influence of mere Property ; and
the Foreign-trade party must support it or
else acknowledge that it has no real
hold on the country, and depends entirely
on trickery and disreputable fraud. if
Pakkes will add this item to his Electoral Bill
and will shove that measure through at the
earliest opportunity The Bulletin will be pre-
pared to believe that for once at least the old
man has shown himself a true democrat. And
in proof of this belief it undertakes to make no
unfriendly comment upon him for the space of
two calendar months from the date when a
measure embracing the principles of one man
one vote, and of election by absolute majorities
only, becomes law by his own direct act. Also,
if the proprietors of this paper have a vote in
Paiikes’s electorate at the first election under
the new system they will vote for Pakkes—
provided he is the author of the said reform—
for the first and last time, and will urge their
friends to avoid doing likewise.
Tlie Sanctity of the Upholstered
Lawyer.
When Mr. G. H. Reid, M.L.A., girded up his
loins and “went for” the mediaeval mummery
that answers in New South Wales for legal pro-
cedure, he didn’t say anything about the anti-
quated foolishness of the Long Vacation.
People want to know why the New South
Wales Supreme Court (and the question more
or less applies all over the Australias) should
be locked up and the legal business of the
whole province brought to a dead standstill
every year for two months at a stretch. If
it is for any other reason than to let the
Judge go fishing, someone ought to say so.
And if that is the only reason, then
let us know why the Judges aforesaid
can’t go off one at a time, and take their holi-
day in rotation like any other public officials.
They are not such a happy family that they are
likely to want to spend vacation on a joint
picnic. The Supreme Court ought to be open
and doing public business every day in the year,
except Sundays and public holidays ; and if the
Supreme Court judges must have a couple
of months’ holiday to keep them fit for
their work, the work should be distri-
buted so that there might always be one of
them off duty. All the Government de-
partments have to manage in that way, and
so, by the way, have the Stipendiary Magis-
trates. Now, there’s not such an almighty
difference between the man who presides over a
police-court and the man who has a seat on the
Supreme Court Bench ; and you would get rid
of a good deal of what difference there is if
you took away the horsehair wig. Law-reform
along many lines will become a much easier
business when we have dissipated the absurd
and purely English odour of sanctity that
hangs about an upholstered lawyer, and have
come to see that after all he is only a man who
has a contract for a particular public work, and
is handsomely paid for it.
It has been duly reported by cable that certain
obscure individuals were elevated to be
C.M.G.’s, or something to that effect, at the
New Year, or thereabouts, under circumstances
which did not transpire. We abstained, how-
ever, from making any remarks at the time
because we wanted to learn, if possible, why
they had been made C.M.G.’s, but the informa-
tion was not forthcoming ; and while we were
bunting for it we forgot the names of the per-
sons who had been thus suddenly shoved up the
ladder of fame on to the frozen pinnacle of
ambition; so we merely mention that certain
persons, more or less unknown,' have been
allowed to borrow three letters of the alphabet
on good security for some reason not explained.
The dignity of Companion of St. Michael and
St. George doesn t amount to much, however,
for several reasons. St. Michael and St!
George are both dead and buried, and to be the
companion of two corpses is just about the
same as being brother to a quantity of stale
fish, oi uncle to an ancient egg. This is in
itself a serious drawback, but, unhappily, it
can t be helped; anybody can call himself
the companion of a dead saint with im-
punity, but either St. Michael or St
George would inevitably have thinned
out the Order with a spear if he had
found any short, fat, greasy individual with
flat feet and a servile smile passing himself off
as his companion during his lifetime, and it
would have been safer to light a fire underneath
the roaring lion of the Niger than to start the
order before both saints were deceased. Even
under present conditions it is a ghastly trick
to play upon the bones of any respectable saint;
and the statement embodied in the three initials
is a hollow lie anyhow, seeing that the members
of this intelligent body might as reasonably
declare themselves to be the pals of Abraham
or the individuals who went out on a howling
drunk with Tubal-Cain ; and the whole affair
is empty foolishness, inasmuch as nobody cares
whether anybody else is the companion of a
saint or the grandfather of an umbrella-mender
—the honour is about equal in either case, un-
less the umbrella-mender brought an action for
defamation of character; and on top of all
these things the three letters are sadly mis-
placed, because most of those who wear them
are more in want of a reliable “ h ” than of any
other part of the alphabet. These are a few of
the disadvantages and anomalies of being a
C.M.G., but there are about a dozen more weak
points about the alleged decoration which
will be pointed out when the next batch of
“ honours ” comes along.
A Hoary Conundrum.
The following hoary conundrum is from a
Foreign-trade country paper. The editor did
not invent it himself; it is merely one of those
“ unanswerable ” arguments which the Foreign-
trade orator fires like a fiscal brick at the head
of his audience on all possible occasions. Then
he waits for a reply, and if nobody replies he
concludes that his enemies are busted up, and
if anybody attempts to explain the situation he
is either howled down or thrown out:
If it is advisable or necessary for one country to pro-
tect itself against another, then it must be equally so for
one town to protect itself against another. According to
the logic of Protection every town in Australia should be
defended by a tariff against the competition of other
towns. The logical purpose of Protectionists cannot be
reached in any other way. What is good for a large
community must be good for a small one, and even
a single street has as much right to fence itself in by a
tariff as a whole country.
Anyone but an infant or an ass can demolish
this grand old argument at the first try. It is
the business of a Government to gain every
advantage for the people it governs, but not to
gain any advantage for one section of the people
at the expense of another section. A Govern-
ment is created and paid to look after the in-
terests of the whole of the community which
pays it, and to care not one solitary rap for
thq outside world, and as the outside world
cares just as much for it there is no other
course open. The purpose of Protection,
when applied by a whole nation, is to get
ahead of the rest of humanity, or at least to
prevent the rest of humanity getting ahead at
this particular nation’s expense, and if every
town ran a separate Government of its own it
would be entitled to use that Government for
the express purpose of getting ahead of the
next town by means of a protective tariff; but
as the next town also stands a share of the
expense and has a vested interest in the Govern-
ment, they have to divide what prosperity there
is between them. Theoretically it is, no doubt,
a lamentable thing that any nation should try
to get the bulge on another nation, but it is a
good deal less lamentable to do it with a tariff
than with an army. And as an army is main-
tained exclusively for purposes of Protection,
The Bulletin Avaits anxiously to hear from
some Foreign-trade theorist whoAvants to prove
that each town should ha\ r e an army of its own
and a big ironclad, so that it can go out and
lick the next town. A military force is main-
tained for the benefit of the Avhole nation, and
if the existence of a national tariff proves that
every little city should also have a tariff, then
the existence of a national army equally
demonstrates that each toAvn should have a
full-blown general and all the other implements
of Avar. The New South Wales Foreign-trader
would do Avell to hire a Chinaman to argue for
him ; when he argues for himself the results are
eminently disastrous.
George Augustus Sala truly remarks that
while young Emperor William is denouncing
the German national system of education as
ultra classical, the London clerks complain that
their German rivals are too well grounded in
modern languages. The real trouble is that
their mental constitution enables them to make
a ponderous pleasure of business, their readi-
ness to Avork 12 hours a day being further
encouraged by “the Firm” ailoAving them to
smoke. After all, it is only at office and routine
warehouse work that the German in England
beats the native. As buyers and sellers the
Britishers are quicker to make np their minds,
brisker in movement, and less disposed to talk
over a “ parcel of goods as though it were a
great political question. Anyone who has had
experience of business in the big softgoods
houses of London knows that the “home”
buyer is an autocrat, who “clears out a lot”
with a majestic nod of his head, Avhile a group
of about six “foreigners” (Germans and French-
men being alike in this respect) are arguing
amongst themselves over a comparatively petti-
fogging transaction. In high finance, too, it is
not the German who is pre-eminent—but the
Jcav Avith the German name.


How the Honey is Shared.
In the Sydney Morning Herald of a recent
date, Mr. W. E. Abbott, M.L.A. of New
South Wales, and, presumably, a capitalistic
employer of Labour, makes the astounding
assertion that labour in that province receives
80 per cent, of the wealth produced. The
statements of the Herald and of the generality
of New South Wales legislators on such ques-
tions are notoriously unreliable ; and therefore
an M.L.A. of New South Wales seems to be a
peculiarly lit person to make the assertion, and
the S.M. Herald a distinctly appropriate
vehicle for its promulgation. For the statement
is so massively mendacious that well-informed
people will be apt to do nothing more than stand
aghast and awe-stricken.
# * *
What are the facts 'i It is safe to assume,
we may suppose, that the distribution of wealth
is not so very much more equitable in New
South Wales than in England, America, and
other “ civilised ” countries. In the former,
according to Morrison Davidson —and he
takes his facts and figures from official statistics
and other reliable authorities —Labour gets
about 30 to 40 pur cent, of the wealth it pro-
duces. Roughly speaking, the working bees
get about one-third of the honey, while the
drones get the other two-thirds. The total
annual income of Great Britain is set down at
£1,250,000,000, and the respective shares of
the three drone classes are put at —rent-
mongers’ swag, £200,000,000 ; profit-mongers’
swag, £350,000,000 ; interest-mongers’ swag,
£250,000,000. Total, £800,000,000 ; thus
leaving to Labour but £450,000,000, or little
more than one-third.
* # *
Laurence Gronlijnd, in his “Co-operative
Commonwealth,” corroborates Davidson’s facts
and figures, although it is evident that the cal-
culations have been separately and indepen-
dently made; and he also shows that the
American workers are but little better off. He
divides the product of labour into “wages”
and “fleecings,” and shows that the respective
amounts are just about equal. In other words,
that the working bees get about half, and the
drones the other half.
# * *
Now, in both cases, Labour’s share is made to
include what are known as “wages of superin-
tendence,” “ rent of ability,” and so on ; all, in
fact, that is really earned by the capitalistic
employing class in the conduct and management
of their businesses; while under the head of
‘ ‘ Fleecings ” are included rent, interest and
profits. “ Labour” is inclusive of brain-labour
as well as muscular-labour, and “Wages”
stands for the high remuneration of the profes-
sional man, the manager, foreman, specialist,
&c., as well as for the low pay of the labourer.
It may be accepted as a fair presumption that,
taking the average of all civilised countries.
Labour’s share is less than 40 per cent.
It may be taken as a certainty that if
the returns to Labour were but 40 per
cent, of its produce in other countries,
and 80 per cent, in N.S. W., the Australian pro-
vince would long ere this have attracted to its
shores all the surplus population of other lands.
It has not done and is not doing so— ergo,
that 80 per cent, is a myth. But we have no
need to depend solely on this mere negative
evidence; there is positive evidence that the
share of Labour in New South Wales is very
much less, on an average, than 80 per cent.
Two of our principal products of New South
Wales are coal and wool. The coal-miner gets,
on an average, about 30 per cent, of the value
of his labour; or, to be more exact, about 30
per cent, of the whole product is devoted to the
remuneration of all the labour employed in the
coal industry ; the remaining 70 per cent, being
distributed between rent, interest and profits.
In some cases one, and in other cases another,
of these three receives the lion’s share of that
70 per cent., but rarely indeed does Labour
obtain more than 30 per cent.
* * *
The value of the wealth produced in pastoral
pursuits in N.S. Wales is estimated at about
£15,000,000 per year. Labour employed in
pastoral pursuits receives about £2,500,000 per
year, or about one-sixth of the product. One-
sixth equals 16§ per cent. Allow for “wages
of superintendence,” and all mere hand labour
thus employed will most certainly not average
more than 20 per cent. Therefore, in this
industry also, Mr. W. E. Abbott’s figures are
exactly reversed. Instead of the working bees
getting 80 per cent., and the drones only 20 per
cent., it is the drones who get the 80 per cent,
and the working bees the 20 per cent. It
matters little to Labour which one of the three
great robbers —Rent-monger, Interest-monger,
or Profit-monger—gets the lion’s share of that
80 per cent.; but it matters a good deal to
Labour that the workers get only 20 per cent.,
and it is to just that sort of thing that the
workers are beginning to pay a great deal of
very serious attention.
* # *
It is to try to stop this wholesale expropria-
tion that the workers have formed Trades’
Unions ; and are now beginning to think that
Trades’ Unions alone are altogether inadequate
to the requirements of the case. Probably did
the worker at present receive anything approxi-
mate to 80 per cent, he would not consider it
necessary to strike. At some not very remote
date he will not be content with anything less
than the full result of his toil.
The Bulletin’s stock of tinted paper is
exhausted, and consignments afloat have been
unduly delayed. As a consequence the pape r
appears this week in a white dress.
We know not any production of a man of
SO (save Parkes’, and lie's not 80) so strong and
acute as Gladstone’s book on the Rock of Scrip-
ture. He takes up the everlasting and insuperable
position about the existence of Sin and Evil. But
there’s the old fault of trying to refute difficulties
which otherwise might not occur at all to the
reader, so that a stiff, stark, staring, fresh diffi-
culty remains behind the solution. The 119th
Psalm is all in praise of Scriptures that have dis-
appeared, which shows that the Bible of Truth is
in a constant state of flux.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal ... “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
Her Majesty's “ Dick Whittington.
Garrick “The Idler.”
Criterion “Comrades.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
School of Arts Vaudeville Company.
Aquarium liondi.
Aquarium Coogee.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s ~. “ lolanthe.”
New Bijou “ Dr. Bill.”
Opera House J- L. Toole.
Theatre Royal “ Aladdin.”
Alexandra “The Black Flag.”
The penetrating legal mind has discovered
three fatal flaws in the matrimonial trouble which
forms the backbone of “Harvest.” First, they
demonstrate the absurdity of the offer made by
the baronet of name and title to his love-child
when the mother refuses to take the tardy trip to
the altar; then, that children are only legitiraatised
by a posterior marriage within Scottish borders
(small benefit to an heirless English baronet) and
finally, that the undomiciled parents of children,
neither born nor begotten in Scotland, cannot
even legitiraatise them in that country.
“ Comrades ” (it seems B. C. Stephenson assisted
Brandon Thomas in its construction) goes up on
Saturday night. It has only been played once prior
to this in Australia, at Melbourne Bijou, in August,
’BB, with Messrs. Anson, Boucicault, Brown,
Titheradge, St. Maur, Agnes Thomas and Lilian
Gilmore in the cast. Mrs. Brough will play in
“ Comrades.”
“ The Middleman ” will be taken down at
the Garrick on Saturday evening in favour of
“The Idler ” (in which Mary Kingsley makes her
first Sydney show), not that the former play is
waning in public favour, but because W. & G.
want to anticipate the Loudon production of the
PHOTO ENG B BRIDGE ST SYDNEY
MISS OLGA NETHERSOLE.
latter in February, As most folks know, “The
Idler ” was written to the order of Mrs. Langtry
by a one time Sydney journalist, Haddon Cham-
bers, and not accepted simply because the Lily’s
part (Lady Harding) seemed not of sufficient
prominence. It is now running to big business at
New York Lyceum, and the verdict of the critics,
all round, is eulogistic. One writer says : “ ‘ The
Idler ’ is as high in moral tone as ‘ Captain
Swift’ was low, vile, and iniquitous in its vice
and debasement. After having’’, two years ago,
been disgusted and mentally nauseated by a play
that held up in the limelight, as it were, moral
disease and impurity, I was agreeably surprised
to find in ‘The Idler,’ Mr. Chambers’ later work,
something that is refining, elevating, and beauti-
fying to the mind. The clean humanity contained
in the play is enhanced by its strong, absorbing,
and well-constructed plot, built up of dramatic
situations and clever dialogue.”
** * *
At Sydney Royal, “ Cinderella ” is in lie;-
final slippers, but business continues brisk. At
last Saturday’s matinee much money was turned
away from stalls and “gods,” and the juvenile
night on Wednesday, when the Vernon boys were
present by invitation, was almost as successful.
Grattan Riggs opens in “ Arrah-na-Pogue ” on
Saturday, for six nights only, when little Miss
Appleton, daughter of our old friends, Ned
Appleton and his bright, little wife, Jennie Bryce,
will play Arrah ; Maggie Oliver, Katie Walsh;
Edith Blande, Fanny Power: “Bob” Inman,
O’Grady; Major de Burgh, Coffin ; and Chas.
Seagrave, Michael Feeney. George Gordon has
painted new scenery throughout.
Kf * * *
“Dick Whittington” is still doing levia-
than business at Her Majesty’s, and Maggie
Moore, visibly wasting away, takes in tucks
nightly. Ayrton has recovered sufficiently to do
the “ Bogie Man,” an American chestnut, whoso
copyrighting by the London Gaiety people has
caused much amusement in the States, and some
annoyance to Harrigan, the writer. Some nasty
person says of the ballet that the attention
devoted to the curtailing of their skirts might
have been more fitly devoted to the cutting down
of their performances. That’s not our personal
opinion—we simply quote it because of its general
applicability. A professional matinee takes place
on Saturday next, and on Monday night the
gallery will be thrown open to the little ones,
when buns, fruit, lollies, and ginger-beer will be
handed round by the committee of supply.
Alf. Wyburd admitted 10,000 shilling
depositors to the Bondi Aquarium on Anniversary
Day, a circumstance for which he is truly grateful.
To-night (Thursday) Professor Fernandez makes
an illuminated balloon ascent and parachute
descent. N.B.—The moon has been specially
engaged for this occasion ; lovers will pay double
rates.
At Coogee Aquarium, we are informed by
Manager Larmour, the 26th was a very big day.
He has lately captured five monstrous tiger
sharks, two dozen penguins, and a monkey which
makes balloon ascensions, and never fails to go
up. The Wednesday evening dances are becom-
ing very popular. We are just informed that Mr.
Barren, who defeated Mr. Sullivan at the Austra-
lian Athletic Club the other evening, will meet
Mr. Brinsrnead for a hundred-pound trophy and
the amateur light-weight championship at Coogee
in the open air, in a month or so.
& * *
At Sydney School of Arts the Faning-
Tracey combination, now in their fifth week, are
doing “fair to middlin’ biz.” That open-faced
india-rubber-featured native humorist, Charles
Faning, is a show in himself; Dan Tracey slings
a nimble heel; Bertha Faning looks good enough
to eat and sings melodiously ; and the shapely,
sweet-faced Ida Taucher only wants experience
to boom as a song and dance skirtist. Matinee
on Saturdays.
* «
Wirth’s Roman Hippodrome and Wild
West Combination is doing tremendous business,
after a chaotic get-’em-in-anyhow fashion,, at
Sydney Agricultural Ground. As a circus, it i s
better than many shows,
but not half so good as
others we’ve seen; but,
if the Wild West trouble
had a plot written up
for it and some prairie
effects introduced, it
would be the rage of this
horse-loving, gun - pop-
ping country. Captain
Jack Sutton’s long hair
and white teeth seem to
have captivated the Syd-
ney girls—we saw about a
dozenfollowinghim down
King-street one evening.
* * *
Two thousand people
visited Sydney Cyclo-
rama on Anniversary
Day.
* *
Miss Olga Nether-
sole made her first ap-
pearance on any stage at
the Brighton Royal, in
March, ’B7, when she
played Lettice, the
ingenue, in “Harvest.”
She then travelled with
the Amy Roselle-Dacre
Co. fora time ;thenjoined
Willie Edouin’s provin-
cial company and ap-
peared at London Adelphi
in June, ’BB, as Ruth
Medway, in “Union
Jack,” when she made a
big hit. She was then
engaged to play at St.
James’s, and returned to
the Adelphi later to
create Lola in the “Silver
Fallsshe then joined
John Hare at London
Garrick where she para-
lysed criticism when,
owing to the illness of
Bernard Beere, she got
a chance to play La
Tosca. She afterwards
had a tempting offer to
visit America with Mr.
Willard, but had the
good taste to express her
preference for the Aus-
tralian offer made at the
same time. The lady
needs no gush from us
let her performances speak for her.
-He
Eighteen years ago R. S. Smythe was
travelling in N.Z. with Rev. Charles Clark and
Madame Christian, whom he afterwards rolled
into one khow ; and he has recently been managing
the tours of the same Charles Clark, and another
contralto, Madame Burton, whom he did not
amalgamate. Clark began his Maoriland tour
long before any of the entertainers at present
there, and the stream of his eloquence still hows
on. R.S.S. returned to Sydney on Monday to
arrange for the farewell appearances of the King
of Lecturers.
* # * *-
Theatre-proprietors in New Zealand are
suffering from the general depression. With the
exception of the Rev. Charles Clark, Marian
Burton, and Janet Aohurch, there have been only
variety troupes and the phonograph for the nightly
delectation of the annual swarm of tourists. The
heavy travelling expenses, the time lost on the
trip there and back, and the low prices
of admission deter the big Australian managers
from sending expensive companies to Maoriland;
and stars do not venture thither on their own
account. Mrs. Brown-Potter abandoned her in-
tention of going, the “Fun on the Bristol ” com-
pany taking her dates ; and Madame Patey, who
probably did not care to tread too closely on
the heels of Madame Burton, postponed her visit.
** * *
Dr. Carver’s “Wild America” opens in
Sydney on Tuesday, 3rd February, by which date
Moore Park, on the authority of “Joe’’Brown,
will be turned into a veritable Indian village,
where the noble red man may be seen in all Ids
native glory, arrayed in paint and feathers, and
decorated with revolvers, bowie-knives, and a
waistbelt of scalps. The quiet of the locality will
also be rudely disturbed by the soul-harrowing
warwhoop of the Sioux savage, as with tomahawk
and rifle he dashes off in pursuit of the hated
paleface, while the lank and guileless cowboy will
show how he ropes and rides wild steers and
bucking bronchos, and picks up needles whilst
riding after horse thieves. Dr. Carver is the
champion shot of the world, and his wonderful
performances with the rifle are well known. ThJ
show did big biz. in Melbourne for seven weeks,
and, as they are putting up a stand capable ol
holding 6000 in Moore Park, they seem to antici-
pate a boom in the city of the B.H.
*& * *
The Taylor-Carrington Company are doing
such good business in Adelaide Garner’s Rooms
that they have decided to see the month out.
After that they go to West Australia. St. Maur
took a benefit last week at the Royal. Frederick
Maccabc is all right at Broken Hill.
The Pantomime at Melbourne Royal still
stands erect upon its mildewed pedestal of Christ-
mas tradition, and the high soprano laugh of
happy childhood rings through that good old
dingy house with a vigour worthy of a better
cause. But at each of the four other theatres
there was a fresh deal on Saturday night.
*# & *
“lolanthe” took up the running at the
Princess’s from “Pirates of Penzance,” those
ridiculous nautical persons having very little spurt
left in them, as it turned out. Comparison—by
which the public invariably judges revivals of well
known works—is not on the whole unfavourable
to the present edition of “lolanthe.” Young
Sidney Deane sings and speaks the Earl of
Mountararat part with first-class effect, Charles
Ryley, in gleaming blue silk trunks, is a suffi-
ciently beautiful Strephon, and Miss Elsie
Cameron makes the best Fairy Queen that ever
bolted away to Cloudland with a bit of British
Army. No previous Private Willis has revelled
in the privilege of shouldering arms like Miss
Cameron’s, and although the lady seems in-
judicious in referring to Captain Shaw as a “ type
of true love kept under,” it isn’t her fault that the
gallant captain has been co-respondent in a divorce-
suit since the song was written. Besides the
naughty allegation was rejected by a learned court,
the world being aware that Princess Louise’s sister-
in-law did not—but we are diverging from the text.
Howard Vernon, Leumane, and Miss Ida Osborne
resume their former positions, whilst Phyllis has
dwindled down to Miss Flora Grauper, wbo is
generally understood to be doing her best. The
character is intended to be the embodiment of
Arcadian simplicity as represented in Dresden
China ornaments for the mantelpiece, and Nellie
Stewart holds the Australian copyright. A minor
fairy, undertaken by Miss Katie Potter, seems to
be learning to talk like a mortal with great
difficulty, but the chorus, especially the House of
Peers, is about as good as ever. “lolanthe” is
advertised to run for a few nights. One of these
days the Firm may prevail upon Robert Brough
to accept a special engagement to play the Lord
Chancellor, whereupon everybody who saw him
before will want to see him do it again before they
die, and then this sweet opera will run for six
weeks.
The bearing of that ballad—if it isn't beyond all
bearing—lies in its application to the spicy,
breezy farce at the Bijou. “Doctor Bill’s”
reception on Saturday night was as boisterous as
might be expected after the recent success in Syd-
ney, for the two cities seldom fail to agree upon
the merits of a good joke. In this instance the
Melbourne laughs come like echoes from t’other
side of the Murray. The kangaroo dance sends
ail parts of the house into hysterics before nine
o’clock, the second act maintains a phenomenal
shriek at the top note, and the third allows
exhausted humanity to sober down to a well-satis-
fied smile. It is hard to guess, seeing how things
have been going lately, the probable run Of
“Doctor Bill,” but he bids fair to last until the
Achurch season commences in March. Miss Myra
Kemble received a flowery welcome as Mrs. Hor-
ton, and Brough was himself again—which, being
interpreted, means the same as usual—in the
same part. Elsewhere Anson, Cecil Ward, Cor-
Fsse, and cheery Annie Taylor take up former
shares in this promising speculation, but the girls
are new to their billets. Miss Temple (wearing,
for the first time within recollection, a golden
wig) is altogether delightful in the risky Fauntle-
roy character, Miss Seccombe seems a colorless
kind of wife to wean Bill from wicked ways, and
Mi ss Spong cuts a pretty figure in a modest
capacity.
** * *
Following on the heels of Nellie Stewart,
whose “farewell” was a scene to be remembered,
the reproduction of J. L. Toole at Melbourne
Opera House was a somewhat cold and cheerless
function. A half-filled dress-circle asserted its
loyalty to an old English institution by thumping
the floor with several pairs of feet when the come-
dian’s baggy breeches hove in sight, but the
empty benches up above gave no signs of joy or
gladness whatsoever. Although J. L. T. played
himself right out at the Princess’ a few months
back, there was thought to be at least a fair
chance for his present season at another theatre,
and in a play new to the rising generation. How-
ever, as the multitude are now unduly preju-
diced against the star whose glitter wiis
“ killed ” by the brilliancy of his first
notices don’t roll up, it is probable that
England’s Greatest will be wearing a larger collar,
a still more violent waistcoat, and a wider ex-
panse of pantaloons by the time this appears in
print, therefore, comment on Byron’s old-fashioned
drama is adjourned, for .an •indefinite., piruT*.
“ANOTHER CHANGE OF PROGRAMME !"
The manager paces his ill-lit room
With a stately tragical stride :
Show after show has failed to boom
Till hope in his heart has died.
The manager tears his deep-dyed wool
(All Thespians do when vex’t),
And shrieks to his pal on the office-stool —
“ 0, what shall we put up next?”
The manager’s man he hugs his knees,
And his face is as pale as chalk :
He rolls his eye like one who sees
A ghost—that declines to “walk”;
Then a horrible smile across his phiz,
Like a bat in the moonlight flutters,
As he says, “ Considering last week’s biz.,
Suppose we put up the shutters?”
When one is ill and wants a pill
To take away a pain,
Then, to be sure, for Doctor Cure
He sends, perhaps in vain :
For Doctor Kill, a man of skill.
May call and shake his head :
And lastly will come Doctor J'i.l —
The beast who ne’er turns up until
One’s doing well, or dead.
We’ve swallowed quarts of filthy sorts
Of physic in our time,
But yet we live to laugh and f. ive
Poor fellow creatures rhyme ;
With ink we fill a deadly quill
And sling this cruel stuff.
Its point is nil, it’s nonsense, it.il
The fact remains that “Doctor 8.1 l ”
Is being played by Brough.


BITE.
Ye lushes, Bite. Fishing Nets
'made ready for use. Try our
improved Fish Traps. We have an immense
assortment of Lines (samples sent). Every kind
oi Hook, Baits, Floats, Flies, Reels, etc. A
splendid assortment of Fishing Rods. A small
parcel of Tackle can be sent by post. We have
every requisite for fishing. EASTWAY BROS.
411 George-street, Sydney.
Horsford’s Acid Phosphate
FOR IMPAIRED VITALITY
and weakened energy is wonderfully successful
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A purgative medicine should possess tonic and
curative, as well as cathartic, properties. This
combination of ingredients may be found in
Ayer’s Pills. They strengthen and stimulate the
bowels, causing natural action.
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy
Capital City of West Australia. W.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
land in the
J. Douglas,
g U c H A N A N'S
“HOUSE OF COMMONS" WHISKY.
HIGHEST AWARD : Paris Internationa],
Exhibition. 1889.
Enough to say that Toole approaches very near
to genuine pathos in the character of a kind-
hearted Michael Garner, with a yard of red
handkerchief carefully obtruded from his tail-
pocket, and that his company seem to fall below
their indifferent average in this piece, Miss Eliza
Johnstone being specially unsuited to the rdle of
a soft-headed mother.
** * *
At the Alexandra they are hoisting the old
“Black Flag,” a gruesome shred of bunting which
has done good service for the Darapiers in all
corners of this fly-blown continent. The stain of
blood, a deep crimson stain that no tears can wash
away, cries aloud for vengeance upon somebody in
this drama, and the clank of convicts’ chains
makes music for the large outstretched ears of
warders, who scowl until it all seems like a hideous
dream. From a social or religious point of view
there is nothing very comforting about the “ Black
Flag,” but as a smoking dish of crime
without extenuating circumstances it has
many good points. The company at the
Alexandra require, however, a lot of stir-
ring to the awful occasion. None of them
tear around fast enough, or look sufficiently
horror-struck at the sight of bleeding victims.
Nothing startles Lily Dampier nowadays, and if
a cold, damp corse topples against her in the
dark, it doesn’t seem to make much difference.
So with Mrs. Dampier, and, in a lesser degree,
with the head of the Dampierian dynasty, who,
by the way, dresses his head for this production
as though he were acting in “The Black Wig.”
They all wear a weary air of knowing just what
to expect next, but this is a matter that can easily
be rectified. “Struck Gold,” a dramatisation of
“The Miner’s Right,” is in rehearsal here, and
will follow the “Flag ”in a week or two. Other
Melbourne shows continue as before.
-* -* *■ *
“Miss Elsie Cameron looms tolerably
large as Ruth ” should have appeared in last
week’s notice of “Pirates of Penzance,” The
compositor set the lady up as “ intolerably ”
large—an obvious misprint, considering that one
can’t have too much of a good thing.
* * *
Miss Nellie Stewart will be interested to
learn that her demonstrative admirer, Robert
Beattie, is still on her track. Mr. Beattie is in
Sydney, and will be faithful to her until death—if
she’ll only let him.
** * *
The latest Melbourne novelty is a phono-
graph built on the automatic weighing-machine
principle, which conducts itself without the aid of
a seraphic professor. All that the casual visitor
requires is a silver sixpence, with or without a
hole in it, to drop down a slot, and when that use-
ful coin has reached its long home the disburser
can put a couple of receivers against his ears and
catch sweet sounds of tinkling music from afar off.
To such as prefer tunes to toffee or cigarettes this
strictly automatic phonograph will seem infinitely
more scienoy than the machine that supplied
Edison with his inspiration. As a financial
speculation its success will be largely affected by
circumstances over which even the MacMahonian
Brethren can have no control. A small mob
usually gathers round the individual who has
invested down the slot to await developments.
If the said individual expresses satisfaction the
adjacent multitude fight for the next turn,
whereas if the bold adventurer drops the receivers
with a snort, and wants “ the bloomin’ tanner
back again,” all the other probable customers go
away. At present the machine is booming.
At Poverty Point.
Rear Bulletin,— Some little time ago there appeared in
your columns a letter from an actor, on the Australian
stage. Here are some additional items. Managers don’t
think anything of you if you pay your own fare out from
home. Managers (monopolists would be a better name)
will not look at a piece written here, simply say they
can’t produce it unless it is first played “at home,” and
has received the London stamp of excellence. Then they
are prepared to pay ten times as much for it, and ten to
one they will then lose by the transaction. Nor do they
profit by experience. But then they run in grooves like
their scenery. Lately one of the “ monopolists ” exported
a full company from “ Home.” How many of them were
above mediocrity ? Perhaps one solitary exception. This
importation is considered necessary while there are com-
petent people walking about here in Australia. Nor do
the public think much of these imported people, as a
rule. lam not one of those who go about prating of the
good old day. No, no, they are past and gone— autres
jours autres moeurs ! By all means let the monopolists
import stars—good ones, not marionettes and dress-
makers’ dummies; but there is little doubt that the
public will support first-class stock companies—engaged
for a season, and not only for the run of a piece—who
would play everything, from London successes down to—
or, perhaps, I should say up to—Australian plays, con-
structed and written by Australian authors, whether
born or adopted sons of the soil. Ye monopolists of the
theatres, give native talent a show !—Yours truly Ned
Onions.
Quite a feature of Dr. Carver’s “Wild America” is
Cabbage-tree Ned, who drives the coach which is attacked
by a band of painted Sioux from the banks of the smellful
Yarra. Ned was well known as a Victorian whip in days
of yore.
A London musical critic speaks of Amy Sherwin as
being “ again out of voice” in an oratorio performance at
the Crystal Palace. Amy’s star seems to be in the
descendant.
Young Cedric Burnett, the model for his mother's
Little Lord Pauntleroy, has duly completed his destinv by
being cut down like a flower. He belonged to the cult of
“ beautiful children, blue-eyed and golden-haired—the
mothers’ darlings,” who (says a standard medical work in
a strangely sentimental mood) are marked for pulmonary
disease. Some people think they die of too much velvet
suit and lace, and kisses in their sleep, not to mention
cheating of the barber.
“ Dearer Than Life,” at Melbourne Opera House,
revives the memory of the remarkable original cast, with
Miss Neilson, Toole, Irving, Lionel Brough, Wyn’dham
and Clayton.
When Madame Celeste returned to London, from Aus-
tralia, she complained of the scenery at the Adelphi as
far inferior to that provided for her in Melbourne by John
Hennings—Billington told this to Hennings, at Coppin’s
banquet to Toole. By the way, there is no disputing that
Toole was the biggest attraction ever known throughout
New Zealand.
Bavousky: “I never go to the theatre now. The
actresses are real to me and seem to be going over
their own histories, in a spectral way.
The Arena has something fresh about Boucicault, who
wrote to the editor, about a fortnight before his death :
I now see the pathos of it all. I have worked for a
monster that forgets.” When Disraeli was in power
boucicault sent him a somewhat impudent open letter’
demanding the release of Irish prisoners, but got no
reply. Shortly aftervyards Dizzy was at Lady Walde-
grave’s, Strawberry Hill, Horace Walpole’s old place
near Pope’s, now tenanted by Labby, at Twickenham!
Somebody spoke of Boucicault. Dizzy turned to his
henchman, Montagu Corry, with the languid question
“ Who’s that? Haven’t I heard the name somewhere
before? Is he a conjuror ?”
Snazelle is forming an opera company in Melbourne—
from the remnants of the Nellie Stewart crowd—for a
tour through India. Pemberton Willard, however, is the
man.
New York paper says that the real name of Louise
Thorndyke, whom the late Dion Bouoioault married in
Sydney, was Josephine Kent. She is the daughter of a
New York boarding-house keeper, and made her first
appearance on the stage at Niblo’s Gardens as a guest to
make up 14 at a table. The name, Louise Thorndyke,
she took from a novel.
I’laying Don Cesar in “Maritana” once, and finishing
Let me like a soldier fall ” on a lovely upper 0, “ Billy”
1 lorence, now dead and gone, got a big encore. Coming
down to the footlights as if to repeat the last verse, he
simply yelled out “fell” at the top of his voice and then
walked up stage again. “Why did you do that?” said
Trn ,zarill°, Maud Walton, his wife. “ Why,” said
Lilly, “ it was only my top-note they encored, and I gave
it to em again.”
A quandom clerical piece of pleasantry was fired off by
G. C. Miln when he displayed beforehand, to those mys-
terious gentlemen who represent the press in chickening
and ohampagning, the scenery painted by John Hen-
nings for “ Antony and Cleopatra.” Says he : “ Poor old
John will soon be in the long box.” But poor old John
seems still to be doing remarkably well, and Miln himself
is in the wrong box.
Dear Bulletin, —What is the use of giving us the moral
that a star actress should never marry her acting-
manager ? The poor fellow comes whining round and
saying that people make all kinds of insinuations, so that
he is worried out of his life, and then he will bring an
impudent newspaper paragraph to show that he gets all
the credit without any compensation. We cannot do
our own business. — Yours, Flossie. [Why not try lady
agents?— Ed. B.]
This appears in Sydney D.T., under the heading of
Amusements
A SOLEMN OFFICE and REQUIEM for the repose
“• of the soul of the late Sister JOSEPH HYA-
CINTHS, Little Sister of the Poor, will be held in
the Church of Our Lady of the Sacred Heart, Rand-
wick, THIS MORNING, at 10 o’clock ; funeral will
leave at 1 p.m. for Rookw'ood. , Undertaker.
Madame Marian Burton, who brought a brilliant three-
months’ tour to a close at Auckland, where she gave
thirteen concerts, marked the event by making a pre-
sentation to R. S. Smythe, as a token of her esteem for
him as a man and her admiration for him as a manager.
The gift, which was a silver spirit-flask beautifully
engraved, was rather raal-apropos. It appears that the
“Much-Travelled,” always very abstemious, actually took
the pledge on New Year’s Day, but, in compliment to
Paul Jones, he revoked it immediately upon receiving the
flask.
A lady writes us to state that the theatrical lady whom
in a late issue we described as Mrs. is not Mrs. -—,
and that she (our correspondent) being a sister of the
real Mrs. , is in a position to know that the latter
now resides in England with Mr. . ’s two lovely
children in the house of his mother. We have no means
of verifying this statement, but thoroughly believe in its
veracity ; at the same time we are only interested in the
gentleman’s Australian spouse ; his British waves, like his
American, Indian, and Japanese brides, are outside the
pale of our interest and jurisdiction, though not beyond
the radius of our circulation.
Madame Tussaud’s people, London Waxworks, have
given £5OO for the perambulator which figured in the
recent Hampstead murder. A London doctor used to
make a pride of shaving with the razor used by
Greenacre, the murderer, and said “ The most
lovely razor ever I used !” A play was written on the
murder of Weare by Thurtell, in order to introduce the
very identical horse and gig with which they drove, which
beat Nickley’s writing the drama for Crummies, to bring
in the pump.
In 1856 the intelligence reached London that Dion
Boucicault had died in New Orleans, and it is odd to turn
up the obituary notices. They regret that he had done
nothing worthy since “ London Assurance,” but he lived
to write the “Colleen Bawn,” “Octoroon”—and “For-
mosa.” He would have gone on writing London Assur-
ances, but he was under the necessity of dining (as well
as dying.)
When R. S. Smythe has to tear off the frills so often
assumed by artistes, he does it very gently. As Madame
Burton’s company was leaving a N.Z. port, “They have
put me in the ladies’ cabin,” shrieked one of the members
who thought she ought to have a cabin to herself. “ I’ll
soon have that altered,” replied the Much-Travelled, “ I
never like my artistes to feel out of their element.”
A Melbourne rag apologises for some libellous theatrical
intelligence recently published in its columns by stating
that its newly-engaged critic was filled to the chin with
grog and then stuffed with tommyrot by a theatrical
manager. No theatrical manager could afford to make a
seasoned critic drunk, even if he could spare the time to
fill ’em up again. Lame excuse.
Mario, the opera tenor, used to be worried out of his
life by the attentions of a Miss Giles, who wanted to devour
him, and when Mario and Grisi went to America, in the
Cunard steamer Russia, they insisted on having the pas-
senger-list brought to them beforehand, at the Liverpool
Adelphi Hotel, where they ascertained that Miss Giles did
not figure on the bill. Half-way over the Atlantic, on a
stormy day, Mario was pacing the deck when he fell over
something under a tarpaulin—it was Miss Giles, in a green
silk dress.
The fault with past-masters in stage-management, like
Toole and the late Dion Boucicault, is that they make
everything so wooden. No freshness or impulse is left,
indeed the stage-manager virtually acts the whole play’
reducing all others to marionettes, the movements regu-
lated with a military precision that becomes evident to
the audience and destroys their pleasure. This is bor-
rowed from Paris, where they drill to death, but go to
Germany, or Italy, and you see the delicious free acting.
Suppose two people collide on the boards once in a while,
what does it signify ? We run against aman in the street.
You always fancy you see the expert manager lying face-
downwards up in the flies to move with strings the actors
and actresses.
How is the “Australian Comic Opera Company,” who
proposed to put up the “Dance, Song and Beauty” of
Australia against all competitors at Chicago’s “ World’s
Fair,” getting on? Applicants were to excel in one of the
three particulars and to be content to go for expenses
only. Fizzle!
The Melbourne Thespians defeated the Jolimonters, in-
cluding Boyle and other good men, at cricket recently
by 176 to 25. Syd. Dean made 100 for the winners, and
Neilson took 6 wickets for 6, Oboeist Tom Traill 4 for 18.
It seems that Sims Reeves, failing to secure £2OO a
night, comes out to Australia with Gorlitz, Amy Sherwin’s
husband, on his own hook.
Madame Marian Burton leaves by next Californian
mail.
It is now said that Plumpton goes to England for a
time, leaving Nesbitt still in bis post on the Age.
Someone said to Henry Arthur Jones lately, “ I think
that ‘ The Middleman ’is the best play of our time.” “ I
think I know one better,” said Jones. “One of Pinero’s?”
“ No,” says Jones, “ I was thinking of ‘Judah.’ ”
Nellie Wilson, here with Rickards, is showing at Fore-
paugh’s (N.Y.). She is much admired, and comes on
jauntily arrayed in gray tights, pink silk ‘blouse, grey
Derby hat, and a knowing expression, twirling a walking-
stick, and singing what cannot be more nearly expressed
in letters than as follows;
“ Sweet Kitie Conner !
I dowt upon ’er.
Kite, Kite, as sure as flte,
You’ll ’ave to marry me.
Or else I ’ave a nowtion
Of diving in the owcean,
And mashing with the mermaids
At the bottom of the sea.”
The clever little Australian singer and actress who has
been engaged so long to a young and wealthy Sydneyite
is said to have jilted him for a Melbourne medico.
The American papers say that Wil-fctrd is bound to
succeed in Chicago.
Toole’s servant has been tranped extracting coin from
J-L.’s garments by Manager George Lee’s subtlety in
coin-marking at Warrnambool.
Some droll street musicians have turned up in Mel-
bourne of late, including a real old-fashioned Punch and
Judy outside man, with his Pandean pipes and drum
but the queerest lot are some Pifferari, from the back
blocks of Bologna Saussaggi. One tortured signor
Jonezini, works a monster bagpipe with his mouth and
right arm, under which is a big bolster to squeeze, while
his left elbow whacks a drum and his right foot does.the
triangles.
B. C. Stephenson, the adapter of “ Impulse,” and, in
conjunction with Brandon Thomas, author of “ Com-
rades,” and Alfred Cellier arrived in the Oroya. They are
working on a new comic opera for W. &G. What means
the influx of playwrights?
Mme. Melba, we are all pleased to hear, continues a
splendid lyrical success ; she is said to have been recalled
thirty times at St. Petersburg while singing in “Romeo
and Juliet” before the Czar. We will accept the figures
with a liberal discount for prompt delivery.
Dan Barry has been playing “Proof” at Launceston*
with Mrs. Helen Clive Keightley in the cast and a Miss
Adelaide Cushman, who, we venture to say, is pretty
little Mrs. Skinner.
Janet Achurch is doing well in Auckland, where the
Star published a column and a-half article analysing and
eulogising her Nora Helmer. The “Doll’s House” cer-
tainly compels thought in those provided with the
apparatus.
Kate Bealby, the toney actress who visited Australia
recently for her health, has been showing at a London
matinee of “ The Penalty,” a play by Julian Cross.
Confusing Henry Hamilton with another of the clan,
we spoke of him last week as a playwright who is neither
actor nor journalist. He is an actor of long standing.
The Plaller-Abbott combination are doing good biz.
down South. Percy Abbott is understood to claim that
the Kiama Blowhole is “ the onlie ’Murkan institooshun
he’s sen sence levun North C’lina.”
Nelly Strickland, the pretty wife of Mat Barry (“ How
do, cull ?”) who used to make up so wonderfully as Kit
Knubbles, is playing lead with the “Ivy Leaf ” company.
It just strikes us that the “ Pig Leaf Combination” would
be a good name for a comic opera crowd.
A Mrs. Leslie Carter, of divorce-suit notability and
Kyrleßellew fame, has stepped from the drawing-room
on to the stage, at New York Broadway, in a play called
“ The Ugly Duckling.” She seems to belong to the Toole
school of histrionic beauties, for the papers say she
excels most in facial contortion for which she depends on
an enormous mouth of still more enormous expansibility.
The Age, in a lengthy' farewell notice, shovels jam
with an unsparing hand into the Saratoga, now being
packed for the voyage, of Nellie Stewart. Much said by
the organ of Nellie’s musical-conductor is true, but the
eulogy of her Yum-Yum, when Leonora Braham’s is
remembered, seems ridiculously gushing. Then the
Sydney Daily Telegraph says that “ Nellie Stewart
(she appears in August at Gaiety Edwardes’ new theatre)
will be the first of our Australian actresses of note who
will seek to find her level on the English stage.” Has the
D.T. never heard of Julia Mathews?
The one-man-one-vote principle is catching
on in England, and was the means of deciding
the Hartlepool election in favour of the Glad-
stonian candidate.
Melbourne is proud of numbering amongst
its citizens Thomas Grady, a Victoria Cross man,
aged 63. It has allowed him to sleep in door-
ways for some time past.
Is it really the correct thing for a big
civic magnate, while driving down the street to
an official ceremony, to smoke a cigar in his open
carriage and blow the smoke into his wife’s face
while he struggles to make his No. 8 white gloves
fit his No. 13 hands ?
Australia subscribed £8647 for the Bourke
Flood Fund, which was gathered to relieve actual
distress among the local poor. It now transpires
that £275 has been divided amongst three of the
local aldermen, and that the Mayor of Bourke,
who is a member of the relief committee, accepted
£125 from the fund as compensation for damage
done to his home.
A meeting of Irishmen, convened by Mr.
McGuinness, treasurer of the N.S.W. Irish
National League, to declare the undying loyalty
of the Sydney Irishmen to Parnell, was attended
by about 300, of whom only 20 dissented. Mr.
Parnell will be amused to hear that he was
referred to at the meeting as “a general of the
deepest dye, aye, of the first water.”
Mr. Delohery, S.M., of Sydney, has just
sentenced a young man whose first offence it was,
to six months’ imprisonment for embezzling £1 3s
fid. The accused was given a good character, and
the charge was not pressed. It is such merciless
sentences as these, passed by small-minded men
dressed in a little brief authority, that crush for
ever the poor devil who has made but one mistake.
The Ministry of Sir Harry Atkinson, the
late N.Z. Premier, who is really and truly a pro-
tectionist, but led the freetrade party from
motives of expediency, has been succeeded by
that of Mr. Ballance, a straight-out protectionist
and Radical, who leads the most Radical
Ministry yet formed in Maoriland—this in no
small degree as a result of the One Man One Vote
law.
Rather a neat retort was committed by an
inmate of a Parramatta charitable institution, the
other day. They had let him out for a
“breather” (as is customary) which culminated in
his falling flat on the tram-line. “Are you
paralysed, my good man ? ” said a she-Samaritan,
hastening to pull him off the track. “No, mum ”
he muttered drowsily, “ only— [hic)~civilised.”
And then the Spirit of National Progress was
heard to tear its hair.
Yet another Melbourne man—Wilson, a
hitherto respectable young tram-conductor—has
fatally cut his sweetheart’s throat. The
constant recurrence of deeds such as this, founded
on overpowering sexual jealousy, causes the
thinking man to laugh at those who regard the
gallows as a_ deterrent. It is true that, on the
present occasion, the murderer, after killing his
victim, failed to fatally cut his own throat, but it
can’t well have been the fear of hanging which
unnerved him in that direction.
The Sydney Trades and Labour Council
regards Mr. A. G. Taylor’s representation of
West Sydney as an utter failure. Mr. Taylor’s
name has scarcely appeared in the papers since his
election, the Council says. The Bulletin is
afraid that the workman will be “managed ” for
quite a long time yet by the political impostors
whose chief and only recommendation is that they
contrive to “get their name into the papers.”
What an unconscious testimony to the power of
printer’s ink !
By the will of the late Mrs. Throsby, of
Moss Vale, “Throsby Park,” at Moss Vale, with
“ Milbrook House,” have been left to Mr. “ Pat ”
Throsby, J.P., of Moss Vale—a son of the
deceased lady. Mrs. Throsby was buried in the
Bong Bong cemetery, where the tombstones over
the graves of the family are all bound together by
tendrils from one root of ivy—truly a poetical
idea in this day of brassy ornaments, sand-
papered by the sexton at regular intervals.
The gathering at the Anniversary Day
unveiling of the Lang Memorial was large, but
not enthusiastic, lacking the latter quality simply
because none of the speakers dare, in the presence
of Governor Jersey, strike the keynote of the
man’s life. Parkes blathered about his noble
aims, but never hinted that Australian “Freedom
and Independence” was the chiefest, and so
when some member of a strongly Republican
assemblage interrupted Gov. Jersey by remark-
ing. “We don't want governors, we want a
Republic,” he was promptly suppressed by one of
the 00 or 70 police, sent there to sit on the cause
dearest to the heart of the man ail had met to
honour.
CORRESPONDENCE
“ C. Rode”: Please call on editor “ Ram-
bling Rhymester”; Your choice of subjects is unfor-
tunate— MS. returned. Don’t affix Victorian
stamp in future; enclose it.. Straight Wire”: We
heard the affair was “cronk.” Many thanks “Jay
Wren”; Thank you very much; yerse scarcely suitable.
“Mundane”: Too Lunary... “W. 8.”: Verse, did
you say? Returned,... “Constant Reader”: In ’BB
there were 381,000 males in N.S, Wales over the age of 16,
Of these, 69,790 were engaged in agriculture ; 23,060 in
pastoral pursuits ; 26,760 in mining ; 46,560 in manufac-
tures ; in commerce, 28,000 ; in maritime pursuits, 8000 ;
skilled in building trades, 26,000 ; labourers, 56,230 ; per-
sonal attendance, 28,500 ; professional men, 9500 ; govern-
ment and municipal employes, 21,500 ; military and
police, 2100; other callings not specified, 6000. Total,
352,000 ; leaving 29,000 males unproductively employed.
Of the latter number 7000 are State-supported. Draw
your own deductions “Anxious” (Forbes); If you
come to Sydney we will, as a matter of good-fellowship,
put you on the right track and prevent you incurring so
monstrous an expense.... “ Auster Breaths ”: Two good
incidents, but you should try condensation....“ Pay
Day”: Your view of the effect of woman-suffrage upon
the Socialistic reconstruction of the “civilised” peoples
of the world is one already expressed by The Bulle-
tin..., “A. Ellison”: You make a grievous error.
Women aren’t better cooks than men ; and as waiters
women are the most dismal of failures... “Forbesite”:
The word is nurnisma, literally, to sanction.... “Dumble-
ton ” : Six hundred lines about Tumut would be just six
hundred Tumutch. Other verses fair, but not in our
vein “ R.8.K.” : Not bad, but too flimsy “ T.F.M.”
(Balmain): As you remark : “ While a certain portion of
the public are overworked another large section of the
community cannot manage to obtain any employment so
acquire a \icious habit of writing imbecile suggestions
and exasperating theories to the editors of newspapers
(who belong to the overworked section), and are thus
driven to the verge of insanity.” “R.H.; Thanks
“ 8.L.” ; (1) G.P.0., Melbourne, will find it. (2) We don’t
know of any particularly democratic paper published in
Melbourne.... * Little Miss Brown ” ; You have really no
just grounds for assuming that if you insist on getting
into a railway-carriage which you see is already crowded
with men one of them is bound in duty to stand up on
your account during a fifteen-mile journey. You will get
much deference from men on the weak woman ticket; but
on the strong woman ticket you will get nothing’....
“ A.U.E.” : We are not prepared to unreservedly assume
that England, which undertakes to protect Australia,
could herself resist foreign invasion. The conditions of
warfare, by sea and by land, especially the former, have so
greatly changed that anything may happen when the pon-
derous ironclad and big-gun system is put to apractical test.
..“Subscriber” (Hamilton, V.): Thanks, but we haven’t
yet got the newspaper.... “A. J. Ames”: We don't
know so much about that. Dr. Creighton, a dis-
tinguished authority, was converted to anti-vaccination
while writing the elaborate article on this subject in the
new Encyclopaedia Britannica, in 1886 “W.O.S”-
You can’t “ learn to write like Charles Lamb ” unless you
go for your style, as he did, to the classics. He wrote
good English because he had read good Latin
“Argus Eyes”: Too trumpery, these cupboard
chronicles.... “W. Wilson”: How can we tell who is to
be the next N.S.W. governor? It might be Captain
Gmgah, for all we know.... “Mullion Marble”:' We
cannot yet do 50...“ P.H.C.” (Charters Towers): Goyder’s
Sussex, 13st. lib., Batty up, in ’Bl. (Many repl ; “« held
over.
A white hat, with a cabbage-leaf in it, is
not a bad thing in hot weather, especially when
backed up by Marshall’s 'lonic Nervine.
A London homoeopathic chemist declares
that he has, for several years, dispensed Dr.
Koch s lymph as a remedy for consumption. In
the first place, however, it is not even now known
for sure of what Dr. Koch’s lymph really consists,
and in the second place, even if it be granted that
the chemist in question did dispense the cure it
is quite certain that he must have dispensed it
empirically, inasmuch as the world did not know
until it was told by Koch, what the disease known
as consumption really was.
The Imperial Federationists agitate for a
yearly subsidy of £30,000 from this country in
favour of an English-Canadian-Australian mail-
service, 100 timorous to draw closer with the
United btates, Canada has funked assimilating'
her political and commercial relations with her
wise and powerful neighbour, and now looks to
England to enable her to rid herself of her surplus
produce. Having made her bed let Canada lie
thereon. It is more desirable that she should
experience the defects of an export policy
before her industries have fully developed than
discover the mistake later on when long-continued
false economy has rendered alteration impossible
£30,000 a year would be better spent in develop-
ing Australian local industries and finding re-
munerative employment for our unemployed. To
subsidise Canadian labour is to tax Australian


WORTH UTS WEIGHT IN CILU!
WATSON’S
EYE
LOTION
I ('oolin gandStren crh
thenfng EYE M>
j’TIOBTt for all disea
'.-cs of the Kyes, more
particularly Sandy Blight,lnflammation o I the Eye - and
Byelids, Weakness of l
not only immediate relief
eases of Sandy Bligbt
manent cure in a few
i Sight,&c.lt gives
I in the very worst
I but effects a per.
days.
Price, Is Cil per Bottle*
PREPARED ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
Chemist, SSI Ueoiste Street, Sydney.
Ajid Sold ut all Riwpmjtable Stoitekheficus.
FOREIGN STAMPS.
Wc are prepared to pay high prices for old collections
of postage-stamps (state of book immaterial), or for any
old Australian stamps taken olf letters dated 1850 to 1870. Look up your old letters, they may he worth pounds.
Stamps can he sent by post and will he paid for by return mail. One hundred (100) different Foreurn Stamps,
post free, 2s. Bd.; 50 different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post free, ss. 2d. ; Stamp
Albums, with illustrated oatalosrues, post free, Cs. lOd, and 9s. lOd. Stamp price-list gratis. Tub Philatelic
Monthly, an illustrated Journal for stamp collectors, post free. 2s. per year ; single copies, post free, 3d. ;
correspondence invited.
U VINDIN «3c CO.. Foreign Stamp Importers,
0 and 11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY, and at HAMBURO.
THE
Demon Detective Cameras.
THE MOST WONDERFUL INVENTION
OF THE AGE.
A complete Photographic Outfit including Plates
Chemicals, and full instructions for
7s. 6d. 7s. 6d. 7s. 6d. 7s. 6d.
Sent to any part of the colony for Is. extra
Anyone can use them. No knowledge ol
Photography required. You touch the triggei
and the picture is taken.
Thousands upon Thousands of them selling.
Send early to avoid disappointment.
FROST & SXXIPXXAkM,
THE GREAT SPECTACLE MAKERS,
474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Descriptive Circi iiAR Free on Application.
“The Great Pro-Consul.”
SKETCHES FROM A LIFE OF ACTION.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Bulletin, it may have been noticed,
is not much given to laudation of Governors. As
a rule the best that can be said of the least objec-
tionable of those whom it has pleased the powers
that deal in jobbery to vouchsafe to the lieges of
the Antipodean Colonies during the last fifty
years, is, perhaps, that they have abstained
from actual wrong-doing, and have posed merely
as pure negations. It must not be forgotten,
however, that positive harm is engendered by
the mock-turtle dignity and the burlesque append-
age thereto of a farcical court and sycophantish
sham aristocracy, a state of things which is anta-
gonistic to wholesome democratic principles, and
which, therefore, every Australian should combat
tooth-and-nail, no matter who the holder of the
office be.
But when w r e find a Governor who has proved
himself a real live man, and not a mere puppet
tricked out in tinsel and moved only by means of
wires pulled by the Colonial Office in London ;
one who in every position has shoau that he
required but the vantage ground to do good, that
lie possessed not only the resolution to carry out,
but the inflexible determination that commands
success; and who in times of need and danger was
conspicuous for elevation of mind and total
forgetfulness of self, we do not hesitate to give
Jue honour to the possessor of such noble
jualities.
Sir George Grey, who, under the pressure of his
eighty years and bodily ailments, has just finally
retired from polities, having crowned his long and
iventful life by placing upon the Maordand
Statute-book the One Man One Vote jaw, is the
only great personage who stands out boldly in
relief from the limp array of lay figures that in
the last half-century have feebly strutted across
the stages of the different gubernatorial puppet-
shows of Australasia—almost the only figure
among cyphers.
Great as his services have been, many of the
most important have been either silently passed
over, or grossly misrepresented, and the reason is
manifest. In his fearless career, pursuing un-
swervingly the path which he decided was the
right one, he has repeatedly come in conflict with
established wrongs and vested interests ; he has
successfully combated officialdom both in Eng-
land and in the colonies ; and, more especially lias
he inflicted on plutocracy and squatocracy in New
Zealand some of the severest blows that these
have ever received.
But the plutocracy and the squatocracy are the
governing classes in Australasia, as are their
long-established prototypes in England ; they
rule the senate, and do their best to pervert
history and destroy the character of their
antagonists ; and their influence has, so far as it
lay in their power, dimmed the portraiture and
vilified the great services of Sir George Grey.
The following disjointed reminiscences of some
events in the life of the veteran statesman are of
special interest in that they have either never yet
been published, or only so as to convey impressions
diametrically opposite to the truth. Moreover,
the reminiscences are principally derived from
particulars gleaned at various times in a most
informal way from Sir George himself.
* * *
In May, 1841, Captain Grey, who years
before had been surveying on the N.W. coast of
Australia, was sent to South Australia as
Governor, to relieve Colonel Gawler, who had
temporarily ruined the colony, leaving it not
only with a bankrupt treasury, but also weighed
down with the load of many other complications.
Not the least of these was the Yille de Bordeaux
affair.
In March, 1841, Mr. Torrens, the collector of
Customs at Adelaide, acting under instructions
from the Governor, had seized a French ship, the
Ville de Bordeaux, for an alleged breach of the
Registry of Shipping Act of the United Kingdom.
Not only was the ship seized, but, under an order
of the Supreme Court, the cargo was sold by the
collector. The Chief Justice had authorised pro-
ceedings so far, but hesitated to issue an order for
assessment and delivery of the ship. So matters
remained for some months ; the ship was left un-
tended and was becoming dilapidated and
unseaworthy. The owners were frantic, and
moved the French Government to intervene. A
French man-of-war was despatched to Adelaide,
and the captain tried to bounce the authorities
into immediate compliance with a demand for full
compensation and apology for the outrage to a
friendly power, as the act of seizure was desig-
nated. Captain Grey, who had by this time
assumed the governorship, replied that the matter
was in the hands of the law, and must be left to
the legal authorities of the colony to settle.
The Governor, by virtue of his office, had the
power of sitting as a final court of appeal against
any civil judgments of the Supreme Court, and
at length it was decided to lodge an appeal in the
Governor’s Court against the action of the Chief
Justice in sanctioning the seizure and detention of
the ship.
There was intense excitement over the case, and
the Courthouse Was crowded when Captain Grey
took his seat. One look at the Act had been quite
sufficient for the Governor, and its title alone
determined his judgment. “ I was but 28 at the
time,” said Sir George, in narrating the incident,
“ and it must have been a singular contrast to the
usual procedure of the Court to see me take my
seat, in the place usually occupied by the Chief
Justice, in naval captain’s uniform.”
The case was called, and Captain Grey imme-
diately proceeded to give his judgment upon the
appeal, which ran somewhat as follows :
“ The Act under which the seizure of the ship
Ville de Bordeaux was effected is entitled ‘An
Act for the Registry of British Shipping.’ The
Ville de Bordeaux is not a British ship. The
seizure, therefore, was illegal, and the proceedings
under which it was made being consequently null
and void, the order must lie quashed.”
The.'judgment was a short one, but its effect
was prodigious. The settlement laughed heartily
over the extraordinary bungle of the late Gover-
nor, the Collector of Customs, and the Chief Jus-
tice. There was no laughter, however, when the
bill had to be paid, for the bungle cost the colony
some £30,000 in compensation and damages.
* * *
In a book by the late Marcus Clarke,
entitled “ Old Tales of a Young Country,” now,
I believe, out of print, is an account of the first
discovery of copper in South Australia and the
formation of the first great copper-mining com-
pany in that colony. Talking about Clarke’s book,
Sir George Grey observed that this portion of it
was quite erroneous, and that the author had been
entirely misinformed. The true particulars re-
garding the mine and the successful company are,
however, so remarkable that they deserve record,
It became known to a few that a discovery had
been made of a large outcrop of copper ore. Some
capitalists went quietly to work and made pre-
parations for securing, through a special survey of
20,000 acres, the block of land containing the ore.
Meanwhile, some practical miners and others,
mostly labouring men, had also heard of the dis-
covery, and were doing all in their power to
collect sufficient money to enable them to call for
a special survey and acquire the land. Suddenly
the second party heard that while they had been
doing their utmost to scrape the money together
their rivals had stolen a march on them. A pre-
liminary survey had been made, and the money
(£20,000) had, it was alleged, been paid into the
Treasury. In great tribulation, some of the
second party waited on Captain Grey and re-
quested enquiry, as they believed there must have
been some gross illegality in the proceedings. The
Governor was of the same opinion, for specie was
at the time very scarce, and he did not think that
£20,000 in cash could possibly have been collected;
REVENGE.
JONES (the father of nine ): “Remember you? Well, I ought to, you married me.”
and, under the land regulations of the colony,
payment in purchase of land could only be made
in cash.
Governor Grey, therefore, at once sent for the
Colonial Treasurer, Mr. Robert Gouger, and
asked him if 20,000 acres had been purchased, as
alleged, and, if so, how payment had been effected.
The reply was that every legal requirement as to
application, preliminary survey, &c., had been com-
plied with, and that the money had been paid and
the purchase completed that very day.
“ But how,” repeated the Governor, “ was the
payment effected ? ”
“ By cheque,” was the reply.
“But,” urged Captain Grey, “you know that
under the regulations, payment must be made in
cash. Your acceptance of a cheque is wholly
illegal, and you must at once return it and notify
that the regulations for the sale of land not
having been complied with, the supposed purchase
is void.”
This the Treasurer declined to see. The cheque
was a good one, the name attached to it was one
of approved commercial status, and good for
much more than the amount. Besides, having
accepted it, he considered that his credit and the
credit of the colony were at stake.
“Well,” was the reply, “I refuse to lend my
sanction to any such irregular proceedings ; you
consider your credit at stake if the cheque is
returned. I consider that the credit of the
colony is involved in the land regulations being
administered in their integrity. Should you not
see your way to do this, I must decline to r< t n
your services as Colonial Treasurer. That cheque
must be returned and the purchase cancelled by
noon to-morrow, or you know the alternative.
And, anyhow, on my authority as Governor, I
shall declare the pretended purchase illegal, and
therefore void.”
The cheque was returned.
Both parties of would-be purchasers now set to
work to collect money for the fray, for, as there
was more than one applicant for the land, it
would have to go to auction. The bulk of the
population sided with the labouring party, otters
of were , fr(;el y oao -\ a eib.
succeeded in making up £lO,OOO in cash. A
same time the capitalists got toge ler a ‘ •
-Neither party was anxious to go o a •
There was a conference, and at length i <
agreed that Hey should unite for the express pur-
pose of niakingthe £2O, ) puxenase w nc- g
effected, the two parties, after the survey,
>' ;ui hnoally divided into two equal portions,
shouid meet to appropriate tliem. ~
I his was done, and fortune was an ,
labouring syndicate. What was then ‘ 7
copper-mine in the world (the Buna) e o
share, while the capitalists secured tie poo e
moiety ot the block.
* * *
. , T , , u
Speaking or Marcus Liarke brought up
reference to his great work, “ His Natural Bite.
“This,” said Sir George, “ may be looked upon
almost as history. There is authority lor every
statement made in it; record for every incident.
The whole of the materials on which the work is
founded are now in Auckland Public Library,
among the manuscripts that I presented to the
city.” (
Among Sir George Grey s fellow cadets at band-
hurst was a Mr. Calder, a student of the same
year, who, like Sir George, took high honours m
mathematics. A great friendship sprung up be-
tween them, and when Mr. Calder, some years
after, went to Australia and enterw he hurvey
Department a constant correspondence was kept
up.
When Captain Grey went to South Australia as
Governor, Mr. Calder was there as surveyor in
charge of the Road Department. Later on, when
Grey finally left South Australia, he requested
his friend to collect all papers and documents that
he could purchase bearing on the old history of
Australia, and especially on the convict-systems
of the different colonies. As Captain Grej was
constantly moving about, it was arranged that the
papers were to remain with Mr. Calder until
instructions were sent where to forward the mass,
collection meanwhile still continuing. When for
a time resident in England, Sir George Grey
received many letters written by Mr. Calder from
different parts of the Australian continent, and
in some of them reference was made to a Mr.
Marcus Clarke who took great interest in the
large mass of materials by this time collected.
Mr. Clarke used even to borrow them and take
them home for perusal, a course which was
allowed, as a warm friendship had sprung up
between the pair.
At length, one day Sir George received a letter
which, he said, caused him great amusement. Mr.
Calder wrote complaining bitterly of what he
considered a gross breach of faith. Marcus Clarke
had been making use of the papers for his own
purposes, and had actually brought out a book—
“ His Natural Life ” —founded to no small extent
on the matter contained in Sir George Grey’s
documents ! Mr. Calder was profuse in apologies,
and hoped he would be held blameless in the
matter. He sent also a copy of the work com-
plained of.
Sir George at once wrote to his friend and
begged him to make his mind easy. Nothing, he
said, could better have served his purpose as a
collector, than the manner in which Clarke had
exposed the evils and cruelties of convictism.
# # *
One of the last incidents in connection
with Captain Grey’s Governorship of South Aus-
tralia is noteworthy as a specimen of his keen
forethought and broad sympathy.
Under Captain Fitzroy, the then Governor,
New Zealand had been all but submerged in a
sea of troubles. Hone Heke had broken out in
the North, Kororareka had been destroyed, and
the British troops severely defeated at Okaihau
and Ohaeawai; moreover, the Treasury was
empty, and the Governor had received a severe
snub for attempting to draw on the Imperial
Treasury in his necessities. So soon as Captain
Grey heard of the straits to which the New Zea-
land Governor was reduced, he drew all the money
that could be spared from the Treasury in Ade-
laide, obtained advances from other sources, and
thus remitted a sum of £17,000 to Fitzroy, sending
at the same time all available troops.
Strange to say, within three weeks of this, on
the 15th October, 1845, despatches arrived in
Adelaide directing Captain Grey to proceed at
once to New Zealand and assume the Governor-
ship of that colony, vice Capt. Fitzroy, recalled.
Only a month later, on the 14th November,
1845, the new Governor landed at Auckland,
almost simultaneously with the money and troops
that he had sent for the service of his new colony.
It has generally been assumed that Governor
Grey was allowed greater latitude in obtaining
advances from England than had been enjoyed
by his predecessors, and Mr. Moss, in his recently
published “History of New Zealand,” says,
speaking of the wretched condition of the finances
of the colony when Fitzroy was recalled: “For-
tunately lie (Captain Grey) had power to draw on
Her Majesty’s Treasury.” But such was not the
case. The only funds at the disposal of the new
Governor were the allowances forwarded through
his foresight and generosity for the requirements
of his distressed brother-Governor.
W.
Facts that can’t be Disputed.
STARTLING AND RELIABLE EVIDENCE.
FOR TEH HOT WEATHER.
To counteract the enervating, relaxing, and evil
effects of the heat and depressing nature of the
climate in this country during the summer months,
no remedy has ever appeared before the public to
equal or even that would bear comparison with
Clements Tonic. It prevents fever, malaria and
ague, keeps up the appetite, assists digestion and
assimilation, stimulates the stomach, liver, kidneys
and bowels ; thus preventing liver and kidney
disease, and warding off their unpleasant symp-
toms, as headache, constipation, piles, gout, rheu-
matism, dropsy, apoplexy, &o. The summer is
the time when Clements Tonic is the medicine
par excellence for the people. It prevents the
relaxation and depression so prevalent in the hot
weather in these latitudes; it enriches the blood,
aids perspiration, and restores all lost nerve-
power ; is the most reliable anti-febrifuge, and
pick-me-up prepared in the world, and can be
depended upon to do good and cure disease. The
action of Clements Tonic is certain, sure, and
prompt; relief is felt immediately after taking
the first dose ; it acts direct on the seat of disease
and cures the cause, and then the effects of that
cause cease. Most other remedies offered are pre-
pared with a view of treating the symptoms, con-
sequently, as soon as the effect of the medicine
passes away the trouble returns and the patient
wants another bottle of medicine. Clements
Tonic positively, effectually, and permanently
cures; it does not only relieve, like most of the
narcotic mixtures sold, but radically effects a
cure; and if the patient only avoids the source
from which he or she contracted the illness in the
first place, a relapse is impossible. Moreover
Clements Tonic does not constringe the gastric
vessels of the stomach or cause indigestion, and
will not injure nor discolor the teeth. We are
continually receiving new evidence from the
patrons of this wonderful remedy, gratifying
praise and eulogy arriving daily from the most
influential gentleman in the colony. For instance —
Thomas Garrett, Esq., M.P., writes: “I have
taken Clements Tonic with very great advantage.
It is very stimulating, and a great aid to appetite
and digestion. 1 ’ John Plummer, Esq., says :
“ Mrs. Plummer has frequently derived great
benefit from the use of Clements Tonic, and can
confidently recommend its use to all sufferers.”
P. Jefferson Wallace, Esq., the veteran journalist,
says that “ after taking one 4s fid bottle he found
his appetite much improved, he could sleep more
soundly, and felt refreshed next morning; after
taking six large bottles his health was fully
restored, and he can confidently recommend
Clements Tonic to all sufferers from nervous
exhaustion, worry, or the effects of excessive
mental labor.” W. D. Braham, the crack tailor,
of King-street, Sydney, writes in terms of the
highest praise, says : “Clements Tonic gave him
new health and strength, increased his appetite
and made him relish his food, he increased in
weight, lost all nervous feelings, and now feels
stronger than ever, and is glad to give his testimony
in support of so wonderful a remedy.” We could
go on ad infinitum with evidence like the fore-
going. We do not ask you to take our word ; but
are prepared to prove the efficacy of Clements
Tonic by outside evidence, if you will only send
us your address. We must, however, give you
one word of warning: Don’t let unscrupulous
men impose upon you with substitutes; they all
are imitations of Clements Tonic, which proves
the superiority of our article. If you are unable
to procure it in your locality, we will send half-
dozen 4s fid bottles for P. 0.0. for 255, or one
dozen for 455. Write to F. M. Clements, New-
town, Sydney, if you experience any difficulty
whatever.


HEADQUARTERS
—FOR—
Baggies, Phaetons, Waggons, etc.
The F. B. WHEELER CO.,
218 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
sate
ass
I .ZLEBftATSJ
I'V-
mmm
£oL
, rOMfXPORT^
IUROR*. IND.^
W- W, - -
::}W£
Personal Items.
Sir William Macleay is 71 years of age.
The Prince of Wales is not so fat as ho
was.
“Job ” and “ Patience ” are the names of
two Queensland J.P.’s.
Ihe salary of the 92-year-old Dean of Mel*
bourne is £lOOO a year.
Graham Berry is in his 69th year, but
still has a bright blue wicked eye.
A statue of Adam Lindsey Gordon is to be
erected at Ballarat at the cost of a local lady.
Lord Jersey “merely smiled” on the
press interlocutor at Adelaide. Was it a liquid
smile ? .
A N.S.W. country journal says that Lady
Jersey will, on her arrival, be received by Lady
Parkes?
Governor Kintore starts on his trans-con-
tinental journey from Port Darwin to Adelaide in
April next.
John Ballanoe, journalist, the new Premier
of Maonland, is an Antrim (Ireland) man, and 52
years of age.
The father of Moreau, of Mount Morgan,
lies buried in the old sand-hills cemetery,
Belmore-road, Sydney.
1 here is only one survivor of Sturt’s
exploration party of 1841. This is John Harris
Browne, now in England.
Kipling was front-named after Rudyard
Mere, a sheet of water on whose banks h’is father
and mother plighted their troth.
Parnell has been offered £15,000 for a
hundred lectures in America. He refused
Notoriety is more saleable than fame.
lbe best advertised man just now is the
N.S.W. Director of Forests, whose name—it
may be a waste of space—is Mr. J. Ednie Brown.
Physician, cure thyseM I At late dates
Dr. Brown-Sequard, inventor of the “ Elixir of
Life. ’ was prostrate at Nice, whether he had
gone to recruit.
•Judge Windeyer has turned into his 57th
year. Thirty-three years ago he was a law-
reporter for the Empire, then the property of one
Henry Parkes.
J. L. Latey has retired from the editorship
of the Illustrated London News, and has been
succeeded by Clement K. Shorter, a clerk at
Somerset House.
Barney Livingstone, of Maryborough (Q.),
devoted twenty-five years of his spare time to
building a schooner, which has just foundered on
her first voyage.
The wealthy Dean Macartney, aged 92,
was the Liveliest amongst the elderly clerics at the
consecration of St. Paul’s, Melbourne, last week.
He arrived in Melbourne in 1848.
A correspondent points out that we omitted
the name of Sir Anthony Musgrave (buried at
Loowong, Brisbane) fyom our list of Governors
who have died on Australian soil.
David Christie Murray says the hollowest
and most insincere politician he ever knejv was
Disraeli. . Murray for years represented the
Daily News in the House of Commons.
Young Kellett Chambers brother to
Haddou of that {lk—is gradually making a name
for himself in London as a journalist. He con-
tributes to the Hawk and other smart papers.
’Hie authoress of “An Australian Girl,”
is, it is stated, Mrs. Ered. Martin, a Scottish-bom
S.A. lady, who hails from Moufat Gambier, and
who has long and not unsuccessfully dabbled in
literature.
It is alleged that Stout, ex-N.Z. Premier,
got his knighthood by a cable to the Imperial
authorities during the Russian war-scare of 1885,
placing at their disposal for foreign service 1000
N.Z. troops.
George Ash, M.P., formerly editor of
Naracoorte Herald (S.A.) and the only Free-
trader in S.A. Parliament., is studying hard for
the taw. He is now a elerk in an Adelaide
lawyer’s office.
The body of the Duke of Bedford, who
shot himself in the presence of his attendants,
appears to have been cremated in order to
obliterate evidence of his suicide. The inquest
was held secretly.
Mr. John Norton is said to draw £5OOO a
year and a big dividend ouf of the legal business
with which he is connected. It (ias bu&n
established 60 years, and has the great Berry
estate on its books.
Four N.S.W. judges, viz., Chief Justice
Darley and Justices Innes, Poster, and Manning,
have their sons as associates. The billet of
associate is quasi-ornamental, but the screw is
£2OO a year and perks.
Richard Darley, who was guard of the
first train that ever left Redfern (Sydney) station,
died last week. He retired on pension a few
months ago. Sixamith, who piloted the engine of
the same train, still lives.
Governor Kintore’s establishment is run
very much on the cheap. The whole vice-regal
staff—from private secretary down to shoeblack —
doesn’t cost more than about £l5OO per annum,
excluding pickings, of course.
Pall Mall Budget accuses Sir Bryan
o’Loghlen ( -Q.C., of Victoria, of having raised a
company of rebels in Ireland in 1848, and placing:
himself at their head as captain. This the
O’Loghlen indignantly denies.
Fifteen peers of Great Britain and Ireland
are inmates of private lunatic asylums near Lon-
don, If on top of this you put into gaol for life
those lords who ought to be there, you Would
practically squash hereditary titles.
Dan. O’Connor was Smiting an enemy one
night in the N.S.W. Assembly. Pointing to the
victim he screamed : “ There he sits, mute, silent,
and dumb.” “Yes,” chipped in “Hartley”
Hurley, “ and he ain’t saying a word either.”
Kitty O’Shea, having been found out, has
lost qaste to an extent; but she has not sunk into
such social disgrace as would be hers were it
known that she was perfectly virtuous but had
once got an honest living by taking in washing.
Mr. A. P. Cana way, who has just been
appointed standing counsel to the Crovyn before
the N.S.W. Land Board at an annual salary of
£5OO, will be remembered as one of the young
barristers who defended in the Mount Rennie
case.
Judge M‘Farland (N.S.W.) says ho is the
oldest District Court J udge in Australia; which
gives The Bulletin an opportunity of remarking
that for many cogent reasons Judge MfFarland
should at once resign and let next man have th”
seniority.
Capt. Elmslie, during about a quarter of a
century’s command of the Sobraon—just purchased
by the N.S.W. Government —never lost a man
overboard, and never touched land with his ship.
A model man and a model ship have just retired
from business.
Stead has written stating that General
Booth was the sole author of “ In Darkest Eng-
land,” and that he (Stead) “ merely revised the
work and reduced its bulk.” Only a newspaper
sub-editor qan thoroughly, appreciate the ingenu-
ousness of this statement.
It is not generally known that the Farnell
Ministry offered to place a sum of money on the
N.S.W. estimates for the widow of Doctor John
Dnnmore Lang winch that lady indignantly re-
A BITING REPLY.
OLERGY-MAN: “What, must I see a little boy fishing on the Lord’s day? You can’t look
me into the face—you are ashamed of yourself, that is a good sign, there is
still hope for you ”
Boy : “For ’Eaven’s sake shut up—don’t yer see I just got a nibble?”
fused to accept, believing it should have been
voted in the Doctor’s lifetime.
Edwards aijd Kaul, Melbourne jewellers,
post up a note received from Henry George,
Standard office, New Yorlc, thanking them for
the receipt of hjs testimonial. He says no duty
was charged, “the Custom House officer being a
Single-taxman.” Good goak.
Rev. J. D. Langley, the Anglican parson
who is endeavouring to practically deal with the
N.S.W. poverty question, was formerly very
popnlar as a back-manager at Newcastle, N.S.W.
His brother, also a clergyman, was likewise a
bank-manager in days gone by.
Here is a curious coincidence. J. J.
Duncan, a South Australian M.P., went to
England at the end of the last Parliament, and
consequently did not contest the seat for the new
Parliament. On the very day he landed on his
return his successor, H. C. Kelly, was killed, and
Duncan now stands for the vacancy !
It is most improbable that the German
Emperor personally composed the able speech
attacking classical education, attributed to him
in the newspaper-reports ; but, then, Mirabeau
only uttered the thoughts of other men ; his
Dupont, and a dozen industrious grubbers, were
only too delighted to reflect his glory.
They say that a lot of Crowned Heads and
Serene Highnesses and such like gaudy persons
are about to present “Wales” with a round-robin,
requesting him not to know his bosom friend
Baron Hirsch, the banker, any more. To which
poor Tummy will probably reply with a request
to be bought out of his financier’s toils. Unless
somebody does something pretty soon we shall
hear of Hirsch floating the Heir-Apparent as a
limited liability company on the Due of Plaza-
Toro system.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One thousand unemployed artisans and
labourers are seeking work in Brisbane.
The Argus remarks that Socialism is
necessarily despotism. Benevolent despotism,
anyway.
Out of 54 members in S.A, Parliament no
less than seven are, or have been, editors of
country newspapers.
The value of the staple exports of South
Australia up to November last was £3,766,156. Of
this the cereals totalled £1,736,137.
To bring to Australia a Guelph as the
head of the Federation, will be practically to
make this country into a monarchy.
Since the first South Australian Parlia-
ment was constituted in 1857 —33 years ago—there
have been no less than 39 different Ministries !
Of 13 Roman Catholics in the N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly but two sit on the Minis-
terial side of the House, and one of them is a
’vert.
It would appear as if the Good Templai®
were not “playing chanies” with the Local
Optionists. They are not represented this year on
the League’s Council.
By increasing the N.S.W. Civil Service
salaries all round, Parkes has squared Parliament,
and its numerous relatives in the service, on his
Federation proposals.
It is the favourite boast of Premier
Griffith that he has never broken a promise since
he entered political life. But he “ dussen’t ” say
it on the ’ustings in N.Q.
Brisbane press is “boosting” the old-
fashioned lie that some of the present unemployed
have refused work at 30s. per week and rations.
Why does Labour subsidise a press which lives by
consistently slandering it?
The Australian electors in general, and
the N.S.W. electors in particular, are utterly
ignorant of what Federation means, nor do they
care what it means. By and bye they will dis-
cover that Federation signifies taxation.
The Australian Federal Convention meets
on 2nd or 3rd March, when the bebaubled Im-
perialist conspirators will proceed to fasten on to
Australia a “Cauiu- : -n ” constitution, with [a
Royal Prince at £25,000 a year as its figurehead.
The new Japanese Houses of Parliament
have been burnt down. The Bulletin believes
some sensible man hath done this thing. They
have a burlesque of the English House of Peers,
with Marquises, Earls, Viscounts, Counts, and
Barons.
No less than 3,500,000 persons were
forced to accept Poor Law relief In England last
year. One in nine of the wage-earning classes is
a pauper, as indeed are 20 per cent, of all the
population over 65 years of age, and 40 per cent,
of all over 70 years '
Parkes, G.C.M.G., and Co. are arranging
that the Australian electors are, in the long run,
to have but about three weeks to examine the
Eederation-under-the-Crown trap, which has been
constructed for the purpose of biting off the fore-
legs of the coming Republic.
In reply to someone who said that Parnell
had never spoken out on the labour question, the
Scottish Leader points out that he learned a
handicraft in Kilmainham, saying: “The trade
of landlord was obsolete, and that the time had
come when all men must earn their living.”
Governor Onslow, in snubbing a Maori-
land deputation which waited upon him to protest
against half-a-dozen Upper House nominations by
the dying Atkinson Ministry, told his inter-
viewers that he was responsible only to Downing-
street! That’s why Australasia is sick of guber-
natorialism.
Plural voting not having oeen abolisnea,
the People are not yet fully represented in the Aus-
tralian legislatures. Should a Federation scheme
be jockeyed through at present by the titled
leaders of unrepresentative Parliaments, the
workers will, when too late, find themselves the
victims of a gigantic conspiracy.
It’s time that the crime of sacrilege were
wiped off the Statute-book of a secular State.
Judges impose extra sentences because their
peculiar Goshens have been invaded. In a recent
Melbourne case Government had to revise the
sentence because the Judge was so absurdly pious.
Even mean thieves should be dealt with logically.
The people should insist that any Federal
Constitution Bill shall contain a clause preventing
any Australian citizen accepting any hereditary
or other title. The man who wears an English
title has sold himself to England, looks to Eng-
land for applause, and is a friend of England as
against Australia. The future leaders of our
country must look to our country alone for their
rewards.
One of the new members elected to the
N.Z. Parliament fainted when delivering his first
speech before the electors. He got along very
well until telling the electors how badly they
wei’e being treated by the old women of the Upper
House, when, looking up to the gallery, he caught
sight of his mother-in-law glaring at him —and
then he collapsed and had to be carried off the
platform.
The three U.S. battle-ships now building
are declared to be vessels whose equal as fighting
ships does not exist to-day. There are others of
greater size, but none of greater power or
efficiency. The triple screw protected cruiser will
have a formidable armament, enormous horse-
power, speed faster than any ocean greyhound now
in existence, and coal endurance which, with
ordinary cruising time, gives her a staying-power
of 103 days, or a radius of action of 25,520 knots.
Six ships like her would exterminate the com-
merce of any country under the present conditions
of commerce protection.
It is now pretty generally recognised in
North Queensland that Griffith, during his recent
tour, very cleverly humbugged the separationists.
Concerning which the Mackay Standard bitterly
remarks ; “ We have seen Sir S. W. Griffith in his
Merry Christmas mood, and we have seen him on
other occasions with a cold gleam of bitter
vindictiveness in his eye, and of the two we in-
finitely prefer him in the latter condition. We
have not been had by his recent masquerading.”
From which it appears that Hume Black cannot
forgive Griffith his share in the abolition of the
slave-trade !
Mr. Lecky has written the final volumes
of his great “History of England in the Eighteenth
Century.” He deals with the story of Ireland
during the decade preceding the Union, and more
painful reading one cannot well imagine. Peasants
were captured and sent to the Fleet without trial,
villages burnt down, and women and children
shot in pure caprice, and all with the connivance
of the Irish and English Governments. Patriot-
ism crushed by paid tyrants and spies, half-a-
million of money paid for votes in one parliamen-
tary division, and double-dealing all along the
line. “From the date of Fitzwilliam’s recall,”
says Lecky, “a dark cloud set upon previously
loyal Ireland, which lias not yet been removed,
and ninety years of English Government leaves
her a disgrace and a thorn in the side of her mis-
tress.”_ And yet Lecky calls himself a “Liberal
Unionist.”
An Irish priest calls the Parnellites “the
wife-stealing party. ”
Mrs. Pearcey, the recently-hanged Hamp-
stead murderess, was a total abstainer. When
offered a drink of brandy, ere leaving the con-
demned cell, she curled her lip scornfully and
said “ I never touch it.” The moral of this circum-
stance is that some teetotallers can’t help taking a
little drop on circumstantial evidence.
The good-natured and simple-minded
Pastor Curtis, who in America befriended the
wicked and cast-out Parson Gardiner, has re-
turned to his ’Frisco congregation without having
been allowed to “associate” with the Sydney
Presbytery. Mr. Curtis will, in view of this,
think twice before he takes unto his bosom parsons
hailing from Botany Bay.
Though Premier Parkes’ alleged activity
is kept well before the public, there are most
alarming rumours about his health. The energies
recuperate slowly after exhausting illness in old
age, and it has of late become increasingly plain
that, unless he takes a long and immediate rest,
he will never regain that measure of strength
without which public life is torture.
When Lord Palmerston (then aged about
80) got tangled up in a divorce-suit some kind
friend announced the fact to his wife by showing
her a newspaper-paragraph, and saying, “ We are
all so shocked, dear Lady Palmerston.” The old
lady assumed her spectacles, read through the
paragraph unmoved, and returned the paper with
a smile. “ It’s so like Palmerston,” she said.




ANNIVERSARY DAY: THE DAY WE CELEBRATE.
JERSEY: “ WHAT! DO YOU MEAN TO TELL ME YOU CELEBRATE THAT? Why, they cautioned me in Downing-strect never to refer to the subject, even in the most remote way!"
N.S.W.: “ Oh, my Lord, they don’t know us in Downing-street. Three cheers for the Queen —hip, hip!”--


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
iK) KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 9£ per cent.
12 Months ... per cent.
6 Months 7h per cent.
3 Months ... 5| per cent.
5 per ' ent. allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Oent. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will -be
promptly attended to.
V T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE :
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE-283 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE-37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE:—
Lord Click H. Brown.
Hon. Yesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits :
3 Months
li Months
12 Months
3 Years
G per cent.
7 per cent.
8 per cent.
9 per cent.
A. MILLER
General Manager.
W. H. PALING & COMPANY, LIMITED,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
HAVE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of
Also of the wonderful Victor
pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, Uehel, Fenrich, Lipp, Eonisch, Bluthner, Collard,and others
Pianos at £45 and lEJstiey Organs. No such Variety or Value elsewhere for Cash or Tkrms.
Society
Carington’s out and Jersey’s in. No one
hears of the former now, save when good old Sir
Henry Parkes publishes in the daily newspapers
the private letters which the Baron has sent him
for publication ; but the latter has already been
honoured by the dedication to him of the follow-
ing items, all of which bear the sacred name of
Jersey :—A toothbrush, a particularly indigestible
pie, a new style of suspenders, a sixpenny “ full-
and-plenty,” a baking-powder, a cheap oyster-
saloon with a room upstairs for “ladies,” a worm-
powder for dogs, a boot-polish, a stomach-ache
drink of the “squash” species, a fourpenny
“ clean-bed” establishment, and a large number of
whisky-mills.
* * *
The first public institution visited by
Governor Jersey in N.S. Wales was Callan Park
Lunatic Asylum. Perhaps His Ex., having a
traditional sort of an idea that gaols were the
local speciality, felt some little delicacy in suggest-
ing Darlinghurst as an official commencement.
However, no Australian Governor ever made so
unpromising a start as Lord Augustus Loftus,
who, in his very first speech, at a Sydney mayoral
banquet, took as his text the subject of “ Sewer-
age”—just as if he had arrived to govern Smell-
# *
it is interesting to note that the first
important public ceremony attended by the Tory
Governor Jersey after his arrival in Sydney was
the unveiling of the statue of John Dunmore
Lang—Auld Lang Syne—the sturdy father of
Australian Republicanism.
# * *
Sydney Echo points out that at Gov.
Jersey’s first levee there were:—
Three Knights Grand Cross of the Most Distin-
guished Order of St. Michael and St. George. The em-
blem of the Order was seen on the breast of the Governor
(the Earl of Jersey), of the Lieutenant-Governor (Sir
Alfred Stephen), and of the Premier (Sir Henry Parkes).
Lord Jersey, it may be remembered, received the honour
on accepting the Governorship of the colony, and the
star signifying the distinction was the only decoration
which he wore yesterday, Sir Alfred Stephen, we gather,
received the dignity through his having held the Acting-
Governorship. Sir Henry Parkes had the honour be-
stowed upon him in recognition of his own individual
services to the State. He is the only person actively
engaged in Ministerial life in all Australasia who has the
Grand Cross of the Order. This he received three years
ago, although he was made a Knight of the Order in
1877. The G.C.M.G. is given under the Queen's sign
manual, as distinct from being granted under Royal
Letters Patent.
In our mind’s ear, Horatio, we can hear the vain
old man dictating this greasy drivel to the
obsequious Echo reporter.
Phonograms of Lord and Lady Carington’s
voices are to be stowed at Government House,
Sydney, for the edification of future generations.
By the way, why not store up at one of the Aus-
tralian Government Houses the record of the
voice of a well-known statesman in the three
stages of his great Legislative Council Appoint-
ment farce? Act 1. —The statesman pulls up in
the street a man whom he has, perhaps, been
passing without acknowledgement for years, with
—“ I have long wondered, Mr. Smithkins, how it
is that you have not taken a greater interest in
politics ; it occurs to me that should you ever
decide on entering political life I might be of use
to you in that direction. Act 2.—Mr. Smithkins
gets a letter—something about a loan. Act 3.
Ts not act 3 written in the records of the Insol-
vency Court ?
* # *
Although the new Melbourne Cathedral is
no more architecturally than a fine specimen of
the common or garden kind of parish church, it
has caught on with the general public, and seems
likely to settle down into a popular place of call.
Already the newsboys have commenced to stroll in
promiscuously to pick up an Anthem tune. The
barmaid who has hitherto waited around the
Station for her mash now appoints a meeting in
the tabernacle, and may be heard whispering
across the counter : “ All right; three pews from
the end, the side nearest the door, and mind you
are up to time.” All sorts and conditions of
miserable sinners take their five or ten minutes of
A WEEDY GROWTH.
FORTUNE HINTER: “Hah! We’ve sprung from one of the oldest families of the English
Peerage.”
AUSTRALIAN HEIRESS (an exceptional one) : “You have my sympathy—it was no fault
of yours, I’m sure.”
Divine Worship at St. Paul’s, for the novelty of
being able to sit down and get cool in a sacred
building where nobody glares at the unknown
stranger, or tells him to get out because that seat
belongs to somebody else is attractive in a quiet,
very quiet, sort of way. True, the plate comes
round. But the free and independent scoot that
precedes the arrival of that old established
emblem is a proof of Melbourne’s ability to grasp
the first principle of a Cathedral.
# * *
The other day in Sydney City Council the
tender of an Oxford-street clockmaker was recom-
mended in connection with some horometrical
work. The Mayor then said he hoped the press
would not (the tradesman not being identical with
the Legislative Councillor of similar cognomen
and initials) place “C.M.G.” behind this ten-
derer’s name. Which reminds us that a politician,
famed for his retiring modesty and extreme
sensitiveness, once went to a Sydney shopkeeper
and offered him ten pounds to drop or change
either of his initials. Replied the tradesman :
“Pooh! you’ve got a sovereign for every cent.
I hold, yet I’m d dif I wouldn’t give you fifty
notes to change yours.”
* -* •
Form of prayer for the opening of Mel-
bourne Cathedral last Thursday: “Lord, we
here present before Thee an assemblage from
which arises a sweet savour, every individual
good for at least 25 quid, no Proletariat, none of
those elements which disturb Thy church. Iho
poor we have no longer with us, we thank i-hee
that we have abolished them, and all the ladies and
gentlemen within these walls have enjoyed a tub
this morning, the water lapping their soft bodies,
emblematic of the translucent purity of their
minds—no lepers, or lepresses here —not one in-
dividual contaminated by having been in the
dress-circle last night to see ‘Aladdin,’ or the
‘Pirates,’ or ‘Dandy Dick,’ or ‘ Chilperic, of
which we would not allow the placards to pollute
our spiritual and whisky-laden hoarding ” and
so on.
* * *
Governor Hopetoun was booked to visit a
little country town the other day, and among other
things he was to “ inspect ” the hospital, and ex-
press himself “deeply gratified” at the efficient
manner in which the swelling on Smith’s back had
gone down under the guidance of the courteous
and efficient medical officer. There were six
patients in the hospital and they were all con-
valescent ; in fact four of them were chopping
wood and the other two were reading the local
paper. But it was felt that a good impression
must be made, so all the six were rushed into bed
and bandaged up, and a number of medicine
bottles were strewn around to create an impres-
sion that the establishment was dragging them
back from the jaws of death with extreme diffi-
culty. And then to complete the exhibition the
surgeon planted a big case of instruments on the
table, in order that the eminent visitor might
imagine he was about to amputate the legs of
everybody present and trepan them all afterwards,
and sat down before a huge medical work with his
weary though intelligent eye fixed upon the article
on diseases of the brain complicated by corns in
the tail pocket. He sat there for six solid hours
till at last he heard that the Governor had left for
Melbourne and wasn’t coming, and then he threw
the book across the room, and the patients got out
of bed unanimously and demanded dinner.
# * #
Sydney Freeman’s Journal wants to
know whether Governor Jersey’s business with his
chief adviser will be influenced by the fact that
he is a banker.
# * *
Now that Governor Jersey is on hand, we
must warn him as to the number of articles of
vertu and nick-nacks missing after each of the
Caringtonian receptions. This action on the part
of fair but frail kleptomaniacs was, probably, not
prompted by the intrinsic value of th'e articles
taken, but was simply an outcome of a title-
reverencing’ idea that prompted them to secure
souvenirs of “dear Lady Oarington and the
lovely children ” somehow. We may also inform
his Lordship that folks like their ’am sandwidges
cut thick.
* * #
A certain gallant officer was lately engager
to a very rich widow. When she arrived it
Sydney he personally conducted her to a quiet
hash-house, where he carefully deposited her,
happy in the belief that she would be much safer
there than in an hotel. One week later, and she
was engaged to a very nice, young Sydney masher
and is now his bride. So much for hash versus
hotels.
* -* *
Many people have wondered why such an
able lawyer as John Williams should have
accepted the N.S.W. Crown-Solicitorship at a
thousand a year. Here is the reason. The late
George Robert Nicholls and Mr. Williams were
in partnership, and Dicky Driver served articles
with them (as did Sir James Martin with
Nicholls). Old Richard Driver made it a condi-
tion that “Dicky ” should be taken into the firm
on the completion of his articles. To avoid this
partnership, which was unpalatable to Mr.
Williams, he gave un private practice and
accepted the Crown-Solicitorship, which he has
now held for 32 years.
# * *
An English clergyman wants to know if
the Australian kangaroo is utilised for dairy pur-
poses ! This question reads curiously in the great
Australian cities which between them now con-
sume probably not less than 160,000 gallons of
marsupial milk daily. Perhaps 70 per cent, of the
Australian butter exported to England is made
from kangaroo milk, which, though it was
hardly used at all dijring the first 50
years of Australian history, is by far
richer and more palatable than that from
the cow. The very best qualities of Australian
butter, however, are produced from the milk of
the bunyip, which beautiful and docile animal is
always milked at night—generally by carefully-
trained aboriginal servants, who for some as yet
nnascertainable rea-on succeed in making it yield
20 per cent, more milk than can be extracted by
white men. Bunyip milk gives no less than 20
per cent, of cream, and is thus more valuable than
even goat’s milk.
t # #
Kinmaker Kinsman, of Fitzroy, Mel-
bourne, still does a roaring trade, opening manu-
factories of dear little boys and girls. Knock at
the door, and he opens it himself, extending a
hand like a whale’s ear. He has closed up his
auction-shop, so you have to buy the cradle, and
other fixings, elsewhere, but the sofa remains
“onwhich 4000 ’appy couples has sat.”
* * #
Governor Jersey comes of a hard-sleeping
family, and this tendency has already brought
him into trouble. Coming over from Adelaide he
slumbered as if he would never rise again until
Gabriel blew his final blast, and as the pampered
menial in charge had no idea where Melbourne
was he let him sleep till they were within five
minutes of the city. Then someone informed the
suite where they were, and with a shriek of
anguish they tore Jersey out of bed and rushed
him into his clothes and boots before he was
awake—it was impossible to wait, for he wakes
more slowly than any other man on earth ; and
they washed his face while he was still trying to
get his least exhausted eye open. Also they
nearly strangled him with a misfit collar, and
drove his hat down over his head ; and when the
train reached Melbourne he emerged with a
fearsome yawn and with his hair standing up over
his ear like the mournful pine branch that hangs
over some cavity in the mountains. He didn’t
look imposing, but if the suite had been a shade
less energetic he might have turned up in a tall
hat and a robe of night and finished his rest on
the platform.
# # #
The proprietor of a Melbourne matrimonial
agency advertises that unless clients who have
been fitted, pay up, the collector will come round
—biz is biz. Rather rough, isn’t it? There you
are mournfully sitting after the honeymoon “ in a
dingy parlour in a bye-street, far apart, where the
sodden leg of mutton weeps beside the ruined
tart,” when rat-a-tat! It’s the collector. “To
one negotiation, five guineas.” Courting ends at
court. But Benedick won’t pay, because court
proceedings, as the agency-mafi well-knows, would
frighten others off.
# * *
Old Doctor Fullerton, of Sydney, who
made such a heap of money by marrying people,
like a careful Scotchman invested his coin in
good safe mortgages. A certain solicitor, now
dead, but whose memory is untarnished, always
did the work for him, and when the solicitor
died the business was conducted for the benefit of
the widow. One of the clerks in the conveyancing
branch skipped, after playing hanky-panky with
QUERULOUS QUERIES.
Have you seen the Jarsey, with his whiskers
weak and weepy—
Does he hover round your pillow when your eyes
are dim and sleepy—
And, tell us, does the vision make your flesh a
little creepy ?
If at levee, or at banquet, ’tis your fortune to
have met him,
Do you think, O! gentle reader, that you ever
can forget him—
If lie tried to kiss a damsel, do you fancy she
would let him ?
Were you very much delighted with h's airs and
with his graces—
Did he strike you as a person who was always
making faces—
Would you take him for a “ Juggins ” if they lost
him at the races ?
Would you choose him fora model, if you mean to
study talking—
Is his long descent apparent in the manner of
his walking—
Is he like a “noble dear ” that we read of people
stalking?
No matter, let’s be loyal, for which Providence
designed us ;
Ever ready for a grovel, bless his whiskers ! he
will find us,
For h’old Hingland sent him out to be a silken
bond to bind us—
Tol-de-rol.


Reliable Watch Repairs. Baums & Co., King-st. Arcade.
To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Oux-ea neuralgia, indigestion,
aerve debility. Bottles, 2s. 6d. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Is the coming colony. Responsible Government)
is now in force. Railways and Harbour works
are to be constructed. The goldfields are proving
to be rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £25
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note.—These allotments are in selected positions. They
have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“ There is money in it.”
Pamphlets and marked plans posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
90 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
“PBOPEET'T G-TJIDE.
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers - - 76 PITT Street, SYDNEY.
a lot of title deeds, and amongst the rest some of
Fullerton’s. All unconscious of trouble the old
doctor called at the office one day, and finding
the widow of the dead attorney in great trouble
began to condole with her. She informed him of
her misfortune, and presently ventured to think
that some of his deeds had gone too. Ihe little
grey doctor suddenly burst forth : “ G d
d n! I—l beg your pardon, Mistress ,
but it’s enough to mak’ a man swear. ’
* * *
Dear Bulletin,—! am glad to hear that
the Hon. Gould has done at least one noble action
during his political career by decreeing that no old
stale Chow shall be rooted out of his sepulchre,
and exported to the land of Joss, until he has
been buried for seven years, and has had time to
dry. I only wish the Queensland authorities
had adopted the same principle at least ten years
ago. At that time the Chinese mail steamers
used to lie out in Moreton Bay, and the deceased
leper was taken down secretly from Brisbane in
a lighter at the dead of night, and shoved unob-
trusively into the hold. On one occasion I wanted
to go down and bid a pathetic farewell to a friend
who was bound for China, and the captain of the
Louisa kindly agreed to put in at Queensport and
take me along with him. I noticed when he
came alongside that his boat was piled up with a
deck-load of boxes, and I took a flying jump in
the darkness and aimed to land on the top box.
When I was half-way down, however, there came
an agonised voice out of the darkness asking
me what the dickens I was jumping on to.
Then I guessed that something was wrong, and 1
grabbed wildly at the air and the stars to break
my fall. About a quarter of a second later there
was a hideous crash as the box caved in under me,
and next moment the pile toppled over and went
down in a shapeless heap on the deck, and two
more boxes flew to pieces and shot out their con-
tents, and I rushed down, ear foremost. But as I
dropped I saw indistinctly an awful squashy-
looking, semi-human substance rushing out of its
broken coffin and coming after me, and next
moment I was struck by something like a gigantic
cold dog’s nose which fell on me in the gloom.
Then I scrambled out and fled back to the wharf,
and as I went I heard the captain blaspheming
about the disarrangement of his cargo. That was
the only time I met a dead Chow in a wholesale
line of business, so to speak, and it he had been
allowed to remain underground for seven years
before he was dug up and exported he would have
been much nicer to fall against.—Yours, &c.,
Titus Salt.
* * *
The length to which England now goes for
sensation may be guessed from the fact that
Hogg, husband of the woman murdered by Mrs.
Pearcey, since executed, had his whiskers shaved
off by a barber in order that they might K* glued
on to his image at Tussand’s waxworks.
* * *
It is amusing to read a Sydney evening
paper’s report of a country case of Shocking
Depravity.” It starts otf by commencliiig the
P.M. for hearing the case with closed doors to the
manifest indignation of “ the prurient-minded
in the district who had, in many cases, travelled
! miles to gloat over it ’’—and then proceeds calmly
to give all the disgusting details, per medium of
“our special reporter,” for the benefit of the
“prurient-minded” everywhere, and the great
glory of “our suckin edishun.”
* # *
An Argus reviewer doesn’t consider that
W. S. Gilbert’s comic opera songs are remarkable
for light, bright humour. This is no small com-
pliment to W.S.G., because the Argusian concep-
tion of airy fun is calculated to kill at ten paces.
# * *
Several Australian newspapers went to
unnecessary expense and trouble to let us know
that the Earl of Devon was dead, whereupon
several of our fust families shook their ill-shaped
heads in despair and dropped into a vague con-
jecture that it was another sad blow for Hingland.
This Earl of Devon was an unsociable blackguard
known, until two years ago, as Lord Courtenay.
He had been kicked off the Turf, kicked out of
the Clubs, and morally kicked out of the Insol-
vency Court, where he used to turnup periodically
with schedules of debts ranging from a hundred
thousand down to five thousand pounds, the assets
being, as a rule, about half-a-orown. He was a
disgrace to humanity and a staunch Tory, and he
expired from the results of sinful folly and blue-
blooded wickedness at the age of fifty-five, leaving
his coronet in pawn and his next male heir to
chuck about a vote in the destinies of the British
nation.
The Earl of Euston, whose illness has
been eablegrammed about to such an alarming
extent of late, is one of the great number of
British noblemen who have gone wrong. Some-
where away back in antiquity he married, in
Adelaide, S.A., an uncertain and hazy female
named Kate Smith, and lived miserably ever
afterwards. What the ensuing row was about is
not known; some accounts say that the lady
looked upon him with an expression of loathing in
her eye for an hour and twenty-five minutes, and
then departed coldly in a tumbril or a cab or
something; while another version states that she
wanted both to die together and applied alighted
match to the legs of the piano, after which the
rain dripped sorrowfully by night upon a lonely
grave somewhere—whose grave is unknown. Any-
how, the inevitable divorce-case started, and
Euston proved that the giddy Smith had married
someone else before he met her, so that their
union was null and void. Then the lady got up
and proved that her alleged first husband had
married someone else before she met him, so that
it was her first marriage that was null and void,
the second one being all right. This fact spiked
the miserable lord’s gun, and Kate Smith is
Countess of Euston to this day. They don’t
speak as they pass by. We have told this story
before, but this time it is narrated by a different
man who wants to be paid for his copy.
* # *
A male baby found in a St. Kilda railway
carriage the other day, extinct, wrapped in a bit
of Daily Telegraph. Are you listening, Mrs.
G. ? You do all this. You all do it. Consider
that infant. Born healthy in mind and body,
designed by Nature to live 80 years, and perhaps to
have a career like that of the distinguished French-
man who was said to be the illegitimate child of a
servant-girl. Yet you smothered that baby.
A FASTING MAN.
MR. JONES : “Where are you living now, Billy?”
S KINANBONE: “I’m not living anywhere, I’m dying by inches in a Wynyard-square
boarding-house.”
Not long ago a very dignified, itinerant
clergyman held service in the dining-room of a
Northern Territory hotel situated in a parsonless
town. At the close a miner made a collection in
a digger’s dish. - It panned out well, and as he
capsized the lot with a crinkle and a jingle on the
table before the sky-pilot, he said joyously,
“You’ve scooped the pool,” and then, as an irre-
pressible addendum with an appealing glance
round, “ the winner shouts !”
# # #
As the English poor are suffering severely
from the intense cold, it is pleasant to notice that
the frost is killing off the peerage.
* * *
According to Dr. Lawrence, of Melbourne,
the reason why women don’t get bald like men is
because there is a less aggregate surface of a
woman’s body covered by hair. Singeing the hair
tlie doctor condemns as injurious.
» # #
Womenkind don’t appear to favour crema-
tion.
# # *
Bishop) Saumarez Smith was far and away
the most distinguished-looking person in last
week’s Melbourne Cathedral show. ‘lt will cer-
tainly take Saumarez all his time to keep from
being forcibly married again by one of the host
of throbbing virgins who tick off each succeeding
day of his widowerhood upon the almanac and
hope for the best.
* * *
A man gets his first warning of the onward
creep of age from the watchmaker, who tells him
that the smart, new “ticker” of his early man-
hood —still a modern article in the estimation of
the wearer —is getting old and worn-out. It is
very difficult for a fellow to realise that his first
watch has passed its prime, and that his own
works are likewise beginning to go ft little wrong
through steady wear and tear.
* * *
During an Isisford (Q.) sly-grog-selling
trial the other day, sworn testimony was adduced
to the effect that one Kennedy had imbibed one
case of whisky in five days and another in three
days; also, that he had consumed seventeen
gallons of spirits during last December. This
beats all previous records from the land of the
jim-jams.
* * *
One-third of the sentenced men and
women in our prisons might be turned loose
without doing any harm. The time will come
when taxpayers refuse to maintain prisoners
on any other ground but public safety. We
can’t pay for other people’s revenges. What
spurs us to write this is seeing such a lot of people
about the Rialto who have escaped on quibbles,
by the skin of their teeth, and we don’t want to
lock them up, any more than they want to lock
us up.
* * *
A delicate little fancy in feminine adorn-
ment is to wear an imitation moth or a gaudy
sham butterfly fixed on to the naked shoulder
when the wearer is in evening dress. It looks
pretty, and it tends to aggravate the man sitting
behind, who is filled with a longing to brush the
miserable beast off when he sees it infesting a
pretty girl’s back right in front of him. By-and-
bye, when the fashion advances a little further,
the average female will have a spider roosting on
her arm, and a full-blown cockroach on the knots
of her spine, and then some well-meaning but
lamentably ignorant person will spank her
suddenly in his desire to squash the insect, and
will be firmly convinced, that he is doing a good
turn by perpetrating this uncalled-for assault.
“ Skittles,” the celebrated mondaine,
whose name came up in the extraordinai’y Aubrey
de Vere Beauolerk divorce-case, was formerly the
mistress of an Imperial potentate who for a con-
siderable time officially resided in one of the Aus-
tralian colonies. Having ministered to the affec-
tions of a baronet, an emperor, and several of the
old nobility, she finally settled down as the
exemplary wife of a Gerrnan-Jewish banker.
* * #
A favourite bit of literature in East Lou-
don is still the yellow-covered “Ned Kelly, the
Ironclad Bushranger and Lola Montez,” Mark
how history is made : Ned and Lola had an
Aladdin cave in the Glenbogie Mountains, with a
court headed by Dan. the Marquis of Stevehart,
the Countess of Kaight, and so on. He aimed at
the Victorian throne, but Sir Redmond du Bar-
rass slew him in single combat, whereupon Lola
flung herself into the Barcoo.
* # *
The policeman who insinuated his unde-
sired presence into a Melbourne hotel on a Sunday
on the strength of his statement that he was a
bona-fide traveller, and then took notes of the
promiscuous drinking of several other non-travel-
ling customers, whereby he obtained a fine of £lO
against the licensee, was sharply reprimanded by
the bench for his treachery. He was even called
a “liar.” Unfortunately the success of prosecu-
tions under the Licensing Act depends chiefly on
lies, innuendoes, and mean subterfuges.
# * #
There were 92 insolvencies and 89 as-
signments in S. Australia last year, the lowest
number recorded for years. Nearly all the
practised S. A. insolvents are in gaol or California,
and this brought down the average.
* * *
All the principal retail Adelaide drapers
now close their establishments at 6 o’clock on
Saturday evenings. This is the result of years of
work by the local Early Closing Association.
* * *
The first Adelaide Government House, a
ramshackle old building of about three or four
rooms, still stands —but unoccupied-—on the banks
of the Torrens. The building has not been used
for years, but the adjoining land is devoted to the
raising of vegetables for Gov. Kintore.
# # #
The throwing of a horse-shoe over the
shoulder whenever found is not always productive
of good luck, as a Melbourne lady, who had to
pay £2los. for putting one through a shop window,
recently discovered. However, no woman could
ever throw anything straight.
* # *
Domestic servants are becoming very
scarce in England, and the scarcity is put down to
General Booth. Says one registry-office-keeper :
“ If there’s one there’s fifty joined the Army from
these parts. He says that he can find them better
work to do, and they needn’t be English slaves
any longer.”
* * *
Parisian doctors are petitioning the Legis-
lature to make illegal the scenting of the body by
subcutaneous injection. If the practice be a bad
one—which it probably is—it will carry its own
punishment.
* * *
Historic Manly Beach—perhaps the most
delightful watering-place south of the equator, so
far as its merely natural advantages are con-
cerned—has of late manifested signs of awakening
from its long sleep. Hitherto Manly has been
considered a very desirable place to live in, but
now a tendency is observable on the part of the
general public to regard it with favour as a place
wherein to commit, or pretend to commit, suicide
with a view to escaping from carking domestic
cares or the too inquisitive bank-inspector. “The
Village, ’ which up to a very recent date has been
despotically ruled by a smug little coterie of
opulent property-holders, is at present suffering
from a severe attack of municipal convulsions.
The line of division between the rival factions
appears to consist in this —that whereas most of
its inhabitants who do not get their living in the
place choose to look upon it as a purely residen-
tial suburb, a spot to be kept unpolluted by the
vulgar feet of pleasure-seekers from far and wide,
that other section, which is more or less dependent
for its bread-and-butter on the prosperity of
Manly as a watering-place, desires to add in every
possible way to its public attractions.
* * *
Adamantine in their determination to
keep Manly “select” are the majority of the
members of the Town Council. Manly possesses
no accessible public baths for men, and a council
bye-law makes it an offence to bathe upon the
beach after seven o’clock a.m. The so-called
“ ladies’ baths ” are a reproach to civilisation.
The Council will not allow bathing-machines to be
placed on a beach which was evidently con-
structed by the Great Architect of the Universe
expressly for the accommodation of such
machines; and although it is recorded in
history that the present splendour of more
than one haughty local aristocrat was founded on
—-as it is now maintained by—the money of a not
remote ancestor who, in the freer past, used to
hire out donkeys on the shimmering Manly sands,
the Council sternly set their faces against the re-
institution of the donkey-races on the beaches
within their jurisdiction—despite the fact that it
is obvious to even the meanest intelligence that
Divine Providence deliberately designed Manly as
the great Australian arena for donkey competi-
tions. For eight months out of the year scores
of the best houses at Manly are tenantless ; most
of the local shopkeepers chronically border on
insolvency, and even the bland Chinaman who
succeeds the white man who has gone bung, finds
Manly too hot to live in. The latest phase of this
struggle between the aristocratic Silver-tail and
the sordid Copper-bottom parties is a municipal
contest in which Mr. Shorter, solicitor, represents
the party of advance, and Mr. Farmer, merchant,
the forces of sleep, stagnation, and dry-rot. At
least Mr. Farmer is supported by those forces.
Should the dry-rot faction prevail, it will be
chiefly by reason of the influence of the Sydney
or non-resident vote, which is industriously
drummed up by an Exchange magnate remark-
able for the graceful good humour with which he
stands chaff.
* * *
“Dailey’s Castle ” at Manly has just been
purchased by Mr. M‘Gaw, a squatter, who has
given £2OOO to build a manse for the local Presby-
terian clergyman.
* * *
We have been much impressed by a
symposium in the last North American Review,
for December, as evidence of a rottenness which
none of the writers perceive. There is a long
string of them, nearly all ladies, dilating on
marriage, as it is understood in the upper circles.
The long and the short of it is a nauseous Mal-
thusianism, under which the prime women must
be sacrificed to the Sir Charles Coldstreams who
are used up, but eligible in a Building Society
sense.
HER DEAR ILLEGIBLE SCRAWL.
A dreadful way of writing Lil
Has got, I really think ;
I often make suggestions till
She smothers me with ink.
I grumble at her letter a,
That looks so like a c;
The riled nymph will merely say
I ought to let her be.
Perchance upon a loopy n
My eyes begin to dwell —
“ What thing is that?” I cry, and then
The darling mutters —“1!”
It gives me pain to see her write
A k like r or v :
If I protest she answers “Quito
O.K. enough for me.”
And when she makes her T like J
(As many ladies do),
And I remark it, Lil will say
“ Not such a J as you. ”
Although in form and feature she’s
An angel from the skies,
When I presume to cross the tease
She wants to “dot ” my eyes.
I begged her from the stage to flee
My villa snug to rule :
She was a ballet-girl, ah ! me,
I was a bally fool.


Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The editor -of London Life mentions
incidentally that he used to kiss Queen Wilhelmina
of Holland when she was a very little child and
sat on his knee. Whereupon the Hawk ill-
naturedly remarks that at the Hague Court
etiquette is so strict that even embryo editors
of second-rate society papers are not allowed to
indulge in promiscuous kissing of princesses.
The original genuine article—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Gallagher, who shot his wife dead and
committed suicide at Hawera, N.Z.,on Christmas-
day, was one of three brothers who sold out their
interest in the Bonanza silver-mine to Flood,
Mackay and Co. for £70,000 about 25 years ago.
Gallagher dropped his money at the Thames and
other N.Z. diggings and lately kept an hotel from
which he had sold out just before the tragedy.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Amusements.
Dr. W. F. CARVER’S
WILD AMERICA
AND
GENUINE SIOUX INDIAN VILLAGE,
WILL OPEN
TUESDAY NEXT, 3rd FEBRUARY.
The REAL, ORIGINAL WILD WEST, on its TOUR
ROUND THE WORLD, headed by
Dr. W. F. CARVER, Champion Shot of the World.
Location - Two and a-half acres in Moore Park, close to
the gates, and where the reviews arc held.
Wait for It. THIS IS NOT A fIBCCS!
F. C. WHITNEY, Director.
QOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Lessee ... Wm. Larmodr.
If visitors leave Sydney without seeing COOGEE and its
PALACE AQUARIUM, they will have missed the choicest,
loveliest and most charming spot in Australia.
There Is only One C'oogce in Australia!
Come and breathe its healthy air, and see the 1001 attrac-
tions in its enchanting Aquarium
Grand Entertainment Every Saturday.
Grand Concerts every Sunday Afternoon at 4 o’clock
and Evening at 8 o’clock.
SELECT DANCE EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT.
Performing Seals, Donkeys, Buffaloes; Emus, Mokkeys,
Eagles, &c., &c.
In about four weeks, at Coogee Aquarium, Mr. Burden,
amateur light-weight champion of Australia, meets Mr.
Brinsmead, ex-amateur middle-weight champion of
England, for the light-weight championship of Australia.
Mr. Larmour gives a trophy valued at £lOO.
ARTHUR N. WALCOT,
CONVEYANCER, *c.
Loans on Mortgage of Freehold and Leasehold
Estates. International Patents.
Australasian Trade Marks and Copyrights.
The Sydney, Country and Intercolonial Law Agency.
OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND CHAMBERS, BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ĝ
Government
Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 29, 1891.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c,, specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4.
Bridge, Bogan River, road Bourke to Brewarrina
(fresh tenders)
Bridge, in approach to Elderslie Bridge, Hunter
River
Bridge, Mickie’s Creek, road Cobargo to Ber-
magui
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for Nytnboy
River at Nymboyda (fresh tenders)
Additions to Mess, Victoria Barracks
Manufacture of Switches and Crossings for Tram-
way Construction
Alterations to Closets, new public offices (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, &c., Wharves, Bridges, &c., Sydney, dur-
ing 1891
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18.
Contract No. 64 Sydney Sewerage, Construction
of Aqueducts in connection with Main Out-
fall Sewer, Western Suburbs
Construction of Tramway from present terminus
of the North Shore Cable Tramway to Lane
Cove-road.
Additions. Shaftesbury Reformatory
Erection of Superstructure, New Central Police
Court
New Superstructure Bridge, Manila River, at
Barraba
Bridge, Burrowa River, at Burrnwa (fresh
tenders)
Erection of Courthouse, Ulmarra (fresh tenders)
Additions to Wharf, &c., Murwillumbah, and
Approaches thereto
Construction of Wharf at Buckendoon. Richmond
River (fresh tenders)
Erection of Stable and Buggy Sheds, Court-
house, Cooma (fresh tenders)
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Murrnm-
burrah
Balcony, &c., Telegraph Office, Bowral
Approaches to Bombala River Bridge at Bibben-
luke
Erection of Lockup, Clarence-street, Sydney.
Fresh tenders
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4.
Erection of Court House, Muhvala
Additions, Post and Telegraph Office, Cowra
Repairs, Walgett Gaol
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1.
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Cowra—contract No. 1,
Supply of Ironwork ; contract No. 2, Erection.
(Alternative tenders at schedule rates will be
received for Sections Nos. 1 and 2 in one con-
tract). Time extended.
BRUCE SMITH.
Furniture, etc.
Jolm Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
£3" 60S George Street, Sydney.
Price List <£• Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
g
Folding stretcher with wire
MATTRESS. For Hotels, Camps, and
Balconys. Sizes, 2ft. 3in., 2ft. 6in., 3ft., 3ft. 6in.,
4ft. 6in. x Gft. 2in. Price, 205., 225. 6d., 255., 275.
6d., 30s. each.
g
Bedsteads. Half
Tester and Four-
post, black and brass, lin.
post, extended footrail,
3ft, 30s; 3ft Gin, 35s ;
4ft Gin, 40s.
No. 1131, 2m taper foot-
rail, 50s, 555, 60s.
„ 457, l|in hand pol-
ished, 60s, 70s, 755.
„ 464, 2in taper hand
pol., 80s, 90s, 100 s.
Childrens’ Cots, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 455, 50s.
WOVEN WIRE SPRING MATRESSES.
2ft 6in 3ft 3ft 6in 4ft6in
No. 0, Single wire 10/ 11/ 12/ 12/6
No. 1, „ „ with ply
strands 12/ 13/ 14/ 15/
No. 2, all double wire 14/ 15/ 18/ 20/
No. 3, all d. close woven
stronger frame ... 18/ 20/ 22/6 25/
No. 4, the national close double woven, extra
heavy wire and frames, with a division in the
centre. This style is made to suit parties
sensitive to any motion arising from the ordin-
ary spring bed, which this device entirely
obviates. The fabric is cut through the mid-
dle so that each person has distinct and
separate sleeping arrangements; price, for
j _ 4ft 6in, 30s.
1 Wire Mattresses for cots
4x2, 10/ ;4i x 21, 12/; 5x 3, 15/
■'.7'..-
Sydney
LAWLER
B
EDDING, best quality—
2ft 6in 3ft 3ft 6in 4ft 6in
Paillasses, white Forfar
Mattresses, flock
Java kapok, extra super.,
Sin. borders, d. thick.
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/ per lb.
Bolsters, hair
~ kapok
Pillows, kapok (lar. size)
„ white Irish goose
feathers
5fi»-
w-:
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
we can SELL at 25
per cent. less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
-=• ■■
LAWLER’S most effective DRAWING-
ROOM SUITE, comprising : Full-sized
Circular Settee, two Tub Easy Chairs and six
other Chairs, may be had ebonized and gold, or
the frames polished a beautiful walnut colour.
Spring set, top stuffed hair, and covered in hand-
some silk and wool tapestry, with plush borders.
£27 10s.
ĝ
LAWLER’S fast-sell-
ing and luxurious
“ Eugene,” spring set
head and full spring set
edge and seat ; uphol-
stered in very best man-
ner, top stuffed hair, and
covered in first-class fancy cretonne, £3 19s.
I’ AWLER’S “Easiest
ofEasies” —the most
comfortable Easy Chair
made; spring set, splen-
didly upholstered, stuffed
all over, and covered in
Artistic Cretonne, £3 3
If in Repp, £3 15
If in Leather, £5 0
ğ
ġ
COUCH. Stained
and polished Wal-
nut or Mahogany and
covered in leather cloth
and castored, £ll2s 6d.
If in best cretonne, £llss
repp, £2 2s 6d ; hair-cloth, £2 15s 6d.
OR FIALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing-room Furniture, Bed
room and Kitchen Furniture go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street, Sydney. Write for estimates.
Enquiries ~ANswEREDand~PRicEs
quoted immediately upon receipt of letter.
JOHN LAWLER A SONS,
608 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
A R R I C K THEATRE-
Castlereagh Street, between King & Market Streets.
Proprietors & Managers, F. E. Hiscocks & W. J. Wilson.
Treasurer W. T. Smythe.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS ! BRILLIANT SUCCESS 1
of
Mr. Chas. Cartwright & Miss Olga Nethersole
in Henry Arthur Jones’ production of
THE
Produced under the direction of Messrs. Williamson,
Garner <b Co.
PRICES—6s., 45., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Music Warehouse, George Street.
Doors Open, 7 p.m. Curtain, 8 sharp.
Tickets for all parts at Garrick Hotel, adjoiningTheatre.
Manager for W. G. & Co., Mr. L. F. Nethersole.
Absolutely NO FREE LlST— Press Alone Excepted.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 7.45. Carriages at 10.40.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS. TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
OUR GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
Special Engagement of
tsr MISS MAGGIE MOORE
(Mrs. J. C. Williamson), as
OICK.
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
£*RITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Bouoicault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.30.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
of the
Erough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in a New and Original Play, entitled,
HARVEST. HARVEST.
The Play produced under the Sole Direction of
Mr. BOUCICAULT.
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
Theatre royal
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS
Gorgeous Operatic, Comic, Spectacular Pantomime
“CINDERELL A.”
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
JJONDI AQUARIUM.
Lessee and Manager ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS OF AUSTRALIA
The Famous Switchback Railway.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
C Y C L O R A JUC A.
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effects:—Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA
G
RAF T O N
AND
THEATRE
SKATING RINK.
With PIANO, SEATS and ALL REQUISITES
TO LET OR FOR SALE CHEAP.
Apply to
-(:)
HENRY MAURICE. Grafton.
gCHOOL OF ARTS
Lessee .... .... Mr. Dan Tracev.
Business Manager .... Mr. Alf. M. Hazlewood.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OF
DAN TRACEY'S VAUDEVILLE COMPANY
AND
CHAS. FAN ING’S CONCERT COMPANY,
and Circle of Accomplished Ladies.
Entire Change of Programme—Every Item New.
Notice.—Friday Evening next, grand farewell benefit
tendered to the World's Greatest Ventriloquist, LIEUT.
HERMAN, previous to his departur : from Australia.
Popular Prices: Orchestra chairs, 2s ; stalls, Is ; gallery,
SIXPENCE Matinee every Saturday, at 3 o’clock, doors
open 2.80 —Matinee Prices, Adults, Is; Children, 6d.
JAPANESE & INDIAN" SHOW-ROOMS,
325 George Street, Sydney. 325
(Next Elvy’s Music Warehouse).
Inspection Invited.
Japanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China, Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s ■
Miss Janet Achurch’s, Mrs. Brown-Potter’s and Mr. Bellew’s
Photos.
A. DOWSE A CO., 325 George-st., Sydney.
mHE NOAH’S ARK! Gilbert J. Smith
Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs, Historical and Fancy Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc.
Grease, Paints and Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
GILBERT J. SMITH, Hu ai rival Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
297 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Furniture, &c.
EWT 0 N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Full suites for dining-room—side-
board, DINNER WAGGON, TABLE.
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS,
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIRS,
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR!
Patented.
This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort. It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
RAWING-ROOM SUITES, Fashionably
Upholstered, at all prices.
D
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
LETTER FILING CABINETS (Amberg’s)
all letters found instantly : no endorsing or
indexing.
m
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
ģ
w
ALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Locks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
JJOARD-ROOM TABLES, all sizes.
T> EVOLVING OFFICE CHAIRS, with
II j Adjustable Spring Backs.
Enclosed office washstands and
FITTINGS.
i— is
"RON SAFES,
Various Sizes,
Newton and Lamb,
Spring & O’Connell
Streets.
g
B EDSTEADS, all siz
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bepdino . All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
ĝ
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also,
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. 6d. each.
[HEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstancls, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 80s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. 6d. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 255.
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory*.
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


WORMS IN CHILDREN
F.llectimllv < 'uretl bv
... WATSON’S GINGER-
BREAD Worm NUTS, a perfectly safe and certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sob! by the leading Storekeepers, ami
by ho Proprietor, John W mow. Chemist, 581 George Street
ln Doses. Is.; by Tost, la. 2d,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
, V—- i
HOTELS
✓" * ? ■ V*
■ .t/ ' . ’
I
Royal Hotel] T. IUfOWS, Proprietor. [HandLwicls.
Specially adapted for Families. IST" Trams Stop at I)oor.
A-arona’ Exchange Hotel, Sydney
r
...... —rr
'■ T~% fa
s
sfc
■.
rr*
i>}* *]• }• -5 1 j 1 r I’l ••'!
l \ C ‘1 Uj
'v . i ; 'j|l'3i-3*l ;
“:T v
~,v
:■.• -
mmmm
■f-rxiß PHOTO-EUt. ca ._8 BttlOC£-ST,..BYMfiVi
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange. - I
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
t:'-
shmere
ouquet
Toilet Soap.
White. Pure.
COLGATE 'St COu
TOILET SOAPS tfERFUMERT
The name and trademark of COLGATE and
CO. on each article assures purchasers of superior
and uniform quality. Their various exhibits re-
ceived the HIGHEST AWARDS at London,
1887, Newcastle 1887, Ostend 1888, together with
GOLD MEDAL, Paris, 1889. “ Unexcelled in
quality and perfume.”
DR. SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will
positively CURE Nervous Headache or
Neuralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary everyday use they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dan-
druff, and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles —not wires, which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
Illustrated price-list of Dr. Scott’s Genuine
Electric Appliances posted free to any address, on
application to the
Pall Mall Electric Association,
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
The Referee.
The most disgusted man at Rand wick on Mon-
day—or, anyway, he ought to have been —Mr. “Jack”
M’Laughlin, after Prairie Bose’s victory in the Chalienge
Stakes. After her victory in the Selling Race, at Canter-
bury, she was purchased by Mr. Hart, who wanted Mr.
M’Laughlin to have her back at the price he paid, and on
Mr. M'Laughlin refusing, he said that if “Jack” would
pay up the £5 sweep he could have her for the race. But
even that failed to tempt her late owner.
* * *
The Bathurst contingent came down to Rand-
wick with a truck-load of “oof” to back Charon for the
Hurdle Race, and at the start he contested the position
of favourite with Pentagon, but he was never dangerous
in the race. They went for a recovery on the Corinthian
Plate with Volney, but he could only run second to Hugo.
# * *
Bricky Colley won on his only two mounts at
Canterbury Park on Saturday.
* * *
Canterbury R.C. managed to bring off their
meeting in spite of the stand made by certain trainers
and jockeys against Mr. Hagerty’s starting, although at
one time it looked as if there would not be sufficient
jockeys. Most of the dissatisfied ones went for a harbour-
picnic in place of the races.
* * #
The victory of Highborn in the Anniversary
Handicap was not of much benefit to the racing public,
as punters do not like meddling with the Warwick Farm
stable until they know the right money is on. And in
the present case it was only at the last moment that they
made a move. But when they did come they planked it
down in real earnest.
* * *
Affiance, who ran third in the Nursery Handi-
cap at Randwick on Monday, is a beautifully-made colt,
and should be worth watching in the future.
* * #
It was noticeable that not a race fell to a
stallion at Randwick on Monday. Four geldings and two
mares carried off the six races.
* * *
The captains of the intercolonial teams made
an arrangement prior to commencing that no play should
go on whilst a drop of rain fell. This told against Vic-
toria as it turned oat, for it gave N.S. Wales a rest from
a greasy ball.
* * *
The Victorian captain won the toss and sent his
men in first, but as events turned out it was a mistake,
the day being gloomy. When New South Wales went in
they had a grand wicket and fine light.
* * *
At the time of writing, the score in the inter-
colonial match stands at—Victoria, first innings, 181,
compiled on a wicket damped by intermediary showers,
of which number Walters was responsible for 106, Horan
for 20, and Worrall for 22; N.S. Wales, 446 for 9 wickets—
Turner 70, Bannerman 35, Iredale 46, Moses 147, Charlton
28, and Garrett 75.
* » *
Turner’s performance of 8 wickets for 74 runs
is a most wonderful bit of bowling, when the bats-
men opposing him are taken into consideration. The
ball that sent Sam Morris on his homeward journey was
perhaps the best Turner ever bowled in his life. It was a
leg break, and it broke right round Morris’s leg.
* # #
“Tommy’’Horan batted in his usual artistic
way, but he confessed Turner fairly beat him. It was
s imply unplayable.
# # *
Many people are of opinion “ Tommy ” Horan
was out leg before, and that Moses was out ditto before
luncheon on Monday. However, the umpires are in the
right position, and they ought to know.
# # *-
Turner’s 70 runs were got by vigorous play.
Up to 40 he made most by half-hits, but after that his
batting was everything to be desired.
# * *
It was a toss-up on Friday night whether
Walters or M‘Leod should stand out of the Victorian
team. Walters justified his inclusion by his 106 runs ;
but, all the same, Victoria suffered for the want of
M’Leod’s bowling.
# * #
Wales showed himself an artist behind the
sticks, and justified his selection.
* * »
Iredale’s innings was an exhibition of perfect
batting.
# * #
Syd. Gregory, Donnan, and Iredale were caught
out off similar strokes —a drive to the off.
# # #
Bonnor was settling down with all his war-
paint on, having made a dozen runs in about the time it
takes to tell, when he was unfortunately run out. Bonnor
has not been enjoying good luck as a cricketer lately,
and he wanted a big score to put him on his feet again.
His missing of Walters when somewhere in the forties—a
remarkably easy catch—will take some wiping out.
Efforts are being made in Adelaide to secure
Callaway, the well-known Sydney player, for one of the
clubs over there. If he goes over it is probable he will
play for the South Adelaide club.
# # *
American amateur Owen’s time for 100 yards of
9 4-ssecs. was a bit steep, but now we are calmly asked to
believe that John Cowan, of Detroit, ran 104 yards 1 foot,
uphill and against a gale, in 9secs. with 16 watches on.
Rot!
» # »
A large Melbourne cash fielder’s clerk received
£SOO from him last Saturday night for the Monday set-
tling. He lost it, every blessed quid, on Sunday at
faro to the Israelites, and skipped the Red Sea at daylight
in search of a cool spot to sit down while he cursed his
luck.
# * *
Roberts gave Taylor 4,500 in 12,000, spot-
narred, the other day and won by 2,621 points. Some
curious rumours are afloat as to the size of the pockets in
which the big spot breaks are made.
* * *
The decision of the umpire in favour of middle-
weight M‘Garthy, at the close of his eight-round Mel-
»ourne go with Hall, met with much denunciation from
public and press.
# # *
Thus Pendragon :—“I cannot let the death of
iVlidwinter, the Australian cricketer, go by without a
word or two. Midwinter was a very remarkable man in
us line, and a friend of mine through fairly long
icquaintance. In one way and another I had frequent
opportunities for studying the big fellow whom Gloucester-
shire claimed as a native, though I always believed he was
Lancashire born. The more I had to do with Mid. the
greater was my respect for his fine common-sense and
power of analysing character. Had his lines been cast in
slightly different grooves Midwinter might have made a
big mark as a politician. His grasp of important situa-
tions was something surprising to those who thought a
professional cricketer, even if he did turn up professional-
ism and prefer to pose as an amateur, must be quite
commonplace. Asa high old Tory—anyone who reads
my Notions must see that I am a very strong Con-
servative all the time—l have listened to poor old
Mid.’s discourses on pure equity as between class and
class, and felt myself hear-hearing, while with cosmo-
politan experience he expounded his views. Were Ito
live for a hundred years I should never forget his
account of an Australian mining community’s views of
England’s fatherly relations with her children colonies.
This was when our Government declined pretty much
without thanks the Australians’ offer to fit up a regiment
or regiments of volunteers to go and fight the Boers at
their (the volunteers’) own expense. What he said
about the moral victory our Government gained when w T e
foreshadowed modern fighting-men’s tactics by ‘ making
it a draw,’ and saying we could have won if we tried, was
enough to make a man ashamed of his country, as most
decidedly were the major portion of the Australians who
call England home and their country.”
# * *
The S.F. Newsletter says that the only way
to put down professional pugilism is to keep the small-
fry supplied with liquor and to put the big-bugs into
pubs. Talking of liquor, Peter Jackson has been arrested
in ’Frisco for giving a sparring exhibition on the premises
of a licensed publican. Looks as if Pete was going cheap.
* * *
Mr. O’Connor, the mining speculator of West
Australia, has purchased the fine trotting stallion Glenara>
bred on the lines of Childe Harold, by Berlin out of
Fanny Belle, for Kimberley. Glenara has shown 2.42.
* * #
A Sydney and a Melbourne print each give a
portrait of M‘Lean which is a splendid likeness of Stan-
bury. Someone simply “ faked-up” a Stanbury block for
M'Lean.
# * *
Lochiel, the New Zealander, and Salvator, the
American wonder with a mile record of Imin. 35secs., are
half brothers. Though their sire, Prince Charlie, was a
very coarse horse, both are aristocratic looking thorough-
breds.
* # *-
They say it would be impossible to find a dozen
solvent bookmakers in the Australian ring. “What’sthe
use of posting defaulters?” said a brother-book. “ While
they’re members of Tatt’s, I’ve a show of getting my
money. Sack ’em, and w’here am I?”
* * *
Larry Eoley has taken Barker, the Queensland
giant, in hand, and expects to make something of him.
He lives at Larry’s suburban residence, as groom and
gardener. He is a nice gardener, too, very nice. Going
out to put forty pupils through the other day, Australia’s
first scientific fighter said to the seven-footer: “You
might dig the garden over w’hile I’m away, Dick, just for
exercise.” When he returned and found half the lawn
dug up, Larry felt inclined to say a naughty word.
* * *
On the first appearance of the Australian Cup
weights, there was a general exclamation that Greygown
had been “ thrown in,” probably because his easy win at
Flemington, on New Year's Day, was fresh in turfy
memories. Asa matter of fact, Mr. Barnard’s handicap
flatters many horses, several of them seeming to have
more hopeful chances than Greygown on paper. Correze,
for instance, is weighted against the grey horse on better
terms than when he beat him in November, and Enuc
has, perhaps, a trifling pull over the Melbourne Cup
“ third” on their running in the spring. Altogether, it
looks as though the winner of the Australian Cup may,
in a fair field of tryers, want more finding than for several
previous years, when The Bulletin has always given the
right “ tip ” with more or less directness. As for that
six-furlong scramble, the Newmarket Handicap, it would
be absurd to look, at present, for the needle in such a,
big bundle of hay. The best of Mr. Donald Wallace’s is
likely to start favourite. Anyway, Bendigo has the better
of the weights with the much-talked-about Teksum.
# * *
Melbourne Herald published a telegram from
Broken Hill, stating that Billy Murphy lay dying (of his
“ fearful punishment”) in the local hospital, at the very
time when the defeated light-weight was drinking Burge’s
health in a pub. Billy’s inability to swallow anything was
specially mentioned.
# # #
Jack Roberts offers to give 12,000 in 24,000
points to any man in the world at English billiards—
“ spot barred.” Not a bad offer from a champion of some
nineteen years standing. On collateral “form ”he should
be beaten by Peall and others on such terms, but whereas
Roberts is always himself, the other fellows invariably
get their tails down when pitted against the artist who is
remarkable alike for genius, nerve, good-generalship,
dash, and staying power at the game Nature built him
for.
* * *
Mr. Han. Cooper has given 5000 guineas for
Mosquito, sister to Musket.
A fair beautiful skin.—Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. 6d. tablets. Every-
where.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbbook’s “Ealcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
When tired out or worried by work, Salt Regal
makes you fit again. It’s grand for genera)
debility.
Write for plans £10 Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
90 Bathlirst-street, Sydney.
Try Coleman e and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
How to Grow Rich.—Invest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited, 90 Bathurst-.street. Sydney.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Daiims & Co., King-street
Arcade.
WHAT EXPERIENCE REACHES
IS BEST.
There is something to consider in the daily ex-
penses for the household necessities, which in the
aggregate of the year amount to a good deal.
The ethics of buying and selling appear to be for
the vendor to get all he can, and the purchaser to
see that he don’t get too much. But what is too
much ? It is almost a profound question, and
presents the strange paradox that the dearest in
many things is often the cheapest. Certainly this
is so in food, when health is involved, and in
remedies which restore health after it has beep
impaired. It is certainly so in clothing ; for a
cheap suit that will hardly last one is dearer than
the one which will last two seasons, the difference
in price being reasonable. So in shoes and the
like. Recurring to the items of food and health,
undoubtedly the most important, it is found that
villainous adulteration is what renders cheaper
much that is sold, and men are known to
have spent thousands to be cured of disease, have
suffered years of agony, and have trifled away
their substance on worthless remedies. That
which is testified to by thousands as being an
absolute cure, and permanently efficacious, is
cheap at any price in comparison with such as
have no virtue, and which prolong suffering. A
case in point is the following: “New Bloom-
field, Pa., April 26,1886. The Charles A. Vogeler
Co., Baltimore, Md. Gentlemen, —For more
than thirty years I had been afflicted with rheu-
matism so severe I had to use morphine to secure
rest at night. Spent hundreds of dollars with
physicians and for remedies without benefit.
Five years ago I tried St. Jacobs Oil, and it
effected an entire and permanent cure. I have
not been troubled with it since. Cold or damp
weather does not affect me at all. I desire to
give it my unqualified endorsement. —J. E. Bon-
sall, clerk of the several Courts of Perry County,
Pa.” The point here is not so much what Mr.
Bonsall paid for the great remedy of pain, for
the price is a mere bagatelle, but that he was
permanently cured after 30 years’ suffering. Of
course the poor must count the cost in everything ;
but they should reckon on the sound basis that
that which is bad is worthless, and that which is
the best and will cure, and stay cured, is cheap at
any price.
SERIOUS FLOOD IN SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA.
DISASTROUS LOSSES.
By recent advices from South Australia we are
informed that, under date of 13th October, Mr.
H. O. Merrett, of North Creek, Warrina, writes
as follows to Messrs A. W. Dobbie and Co., of
Adelaide, which is sure to prove of interest to a
large number of our readers : “ Dear Sir, —I am
writing to tell you about a Waterbury Watch that
I had in use for about twelve months. I lost it in
the water on Easter Mon day last when there was
a very big flood here, and it was found again on
the Ist of October, and three inches deep in the
ground. When I got it I wound it up and it has
been going ever since, and keeping splendid time,
so I thought that I would let you know, as it may
be something in favour of the watches. There are
any amount of people about here that know this
for a fact. If you would like to see the watch let
me know, and I will send it down to you.”
AT A TRIFLING COST
you can obtain a Waterbury Watch, which rarely
gets out of order, and never constitues itself a
permanent tax on the owner. In the event of
injury befalling it, by taking or sending it to the
Company’s Repair Depot, 56, Margaret-street, it
can be efficiently repaired at a nominal cost,
ranging according to the extent of damage, from
6d to 2s Cd, but never exceeding the latter amount
unless by mutual consent.
The genuine Waterbury may be obtained from
any respectable storekeeper or dealer. Price,
series “E” (the old favourite), 13s. 6d. ; series
“.I” or “L” (the now marvels), with enamelled
dials, 225. 6d. each.
CAUTION.
Purchasers of the genuine article should note that
All Watches Manufactured by the Waterbury
Watch Co. have the word “ WATERBURY ”
PRINTED IN FINE TYPE UPON THEIR DIAL FACES,
AND ALSO THE INTERWOVEN LETTERS W.W.Co.,
WITHOUT WHICH NO WATCH SOLD AS A WATER-
BURY IS GENUINE.


What an inglorious ending hath the sporting
career of many men and beasts ! Parole, winner of the
City and Suburban Handicap in 1879, the Chester Cup,
and several other big English races, was taken back to
America, where everyone thought his owner would treat
him well. He recently ran last in a race for hacks and
hunters, when two prairie ponies gave him weight, and
was entered as “ Parole, pedigree unknown.”
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
“ I will GIVE A BOTTLE of my Remedy for Nothing,
so that sufferers may have an opportunity of testing
the truth of what I fearlessly state.”
Thousands of Bottles of this Marvellous Medicine
GIVEN AIVA V every Year.
I have made a life-long study of the disease of Fits,
Epilepsy, or Falling Sickness, and when I say Cure, I
do not mean merely to stop them for a time and then
have them return again, I mean a Radical Cure. I
have known my remedy to cure the worst cases. Because
others have failed to cure you is no reason why you
should continue to suffer. Send at once for my Treatise
and a Free Bottle of medicine. It costs you nothing
for a trial and IT WILL CURE !
Dr. H. G.ROOT,2B,Endsleigh Gardens,Euston-rd.,
LONDON, N.W
&
X
X
22
■ r
G
dus
\XBS
ES/T
''PHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
The Original Promoter!
m~ “ ATY A TVT BEDE.”
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP.
4000 At lo each 4000
ĝ
g
100 EXTRA— IOO
THE ONLY FAIR WAY OF DRAWING.
Also Open,
Newmarket Handicap
4000 At 10 each 4000
Same division as Anniversary.
Address—
“ Adam Bede,” c/o H. N. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“FAIR PLAY’S”
4N;c\Vmarkct i Handicap
xo 0* 000 10
jEich. each
ĝ
20 at 50 each ... 1000
25 at 20 each ... 500
100 at 10 each ... 1000
100 at 6 each ... 600
245 EXTRA 245
Address —
“ FAIR PLAY,”
Care of PHIN THOMPSON,
93 King Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Tatteraall’a
Newmarket Handicap
10
EACH 50,000 10 EACH
ğ
ġ
265 EXTRA 265
Address—
TATTERSALL,
(J/o Georgo Adams, Tattersall’s Club,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TATTERSALL’S
Australian Cup.
25,000 ATIO EACH 25,000
ģ
60 at 50 each .. 2,500
50 at 40 each .. 2,000
50 at 30 each .. 1,600
50 at 20 each .. 1,000
150 at 10 each .. 1,500
350
EXTRA
350
Address—
Tatteraall,
CJo Osortr* Adams, Tatteraall’* Club,
SYDNEY, N.B.W.
THE AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE, LOAN
—AND —
Guarantee Company, Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act, 1874.
):(
CAPITAI .. .. £.->OO.OOO, in 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
HEAD OFFICE; YORK & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Branches :
LONDON—IIO CANNON STREET, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 COLLINS STREET EAST.
BRISBANE—EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
NEWCASTLE—37 HUNTER STREET.
i- <g-§om, £sq., MS
Chairman,
London Board, of Advice:
LORD ULICK H. BROWN.
HON. VESEY FITZGERALD.
'■-—Nr-v- JOHN HOWARD, Esq.
The Company is prepared to advance money on all classes of approved securi-
ties for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
Twelve Months ..
Six ..
Three ~ ..
Three Years
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
The DIVIDEND declared for the year ending 30th June is NOW PAYABLE.
TO INVESTORS.
A limited number of SHARES are now OFFERED for distribution in the
colonies, payable ss. per share on application, ss. per share on allotment, and the
balance as required by calls not exceeding 2s. per share, at intervals of not less
than three months.
The whole of the capital derived from calls goes to the Company’s credit.
Forms of application, balance-sheets and .other information can be obtained
from the Head Office of the Company, or at any of the Branches.
A. MILLER, General Manager.
O per cent*
"7
O
9
Do You Smoke ?
If so, treat yourself to an article so far above all other brands in quality and flavour that it cannot be
excelled. The tobacco we want you to try is the “ DEAD BIRD ” brand. In colour it is a rich
dark brown, and is the finest quality of American tobacco ever introduced. We only ask you to send
for a single plug or a Jib. packet of the Long Cut, and, after having once tried it, you will never
change it for any other brand. We can send you a small parcel of the tobacco in any form—as a
Mixture, Long Cut, or Curly Cut, for pipe only. This particular cut does not require any rubbing up.
We can send you any size plug from an ounce to a pound weight.
g
PRICES ;
/ Single Plug, as sample, 4:lb ... 1/6
(. Single Packet, as sample, |lb ... 2/-
Send Stamps for any of these amounts, and we will forward to any part of N.S, W. (post free.)
JS&, CRAIG & AITKER, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES,
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
Farlelgrli, 3XT ettliel m, & Co.,
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YOIR-IK: + STREET, - SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
(x)
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the HOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS. Ac.; and of the following SegciAt Links: Peerless Gloss. Satin Polish, Nubian
Blacking' Tanners’ Tools and Materials, jag'”’ Indents Executed on Favourable Terms
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
40,000 In Use. Record, 170 words per minute.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Fifteen carbon
copies may be struck at one time. Agents—SYDNEY:
.1. K. Cunningham, Official Shorthand Writer, Lyndhurst
Chambers, Elizabeth-st.; MELBOURNE: C. S. Cunning-
ham, Shorthand Writer, A.W.F. Buildings, Collins-st.;
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Mary-st.: ADELAIDE; E.
S. Wigg & Son, Rundle-st.; AUCKLAND: J. Witheby
THE HAMMOND TYPEWRITER.
ĝ
2 Keyboards.
30 Keys, DO characters
35 Styles Type.
SPEED, the Highest.
Alignment, Perfect.
“Universal.”
FIRST PRIZES in all late contests f<c
“Best” and “Fancy” AVork.
76 HAMMOND’S purchased by U.S. Government
in a Single Order.
D. JE3. THOMAS,
Sulk Aqbkt,
5.'1 UHzabetli-st., Well*. *.*> llarcnec-st., Sydney.
Also Sole Agent, for
Ambers Cabinet Letter File & Automatic Letter Fran
“Come along, Ellen, and remember what the Sunday-school teacher says about stealin ';
besides, the boss is watchin’ us.”
The Lord Mayor’s Show.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Once again
Pushing and elbowing, elbowed and pushed,
What brings me here to be crumpled and crushed,
Pleasure or pain ?
Hurrying, struggling—ready to choke,
Penalty this for a vow often broke,
Ghastly and horrible annual joke—
This once, but never again !
Chariots pass
Mounted and mystical—“props ” of the Lane,
Classical Drury— a notion insane,
Gussie, alas !
Pantomime “ props ” are symbolical here.
Clowns—and in broadcloth, will bring up the rear,
Each in the course of the day to appear
Alderman—fuddled man—ass.
Alderman snug,
Bloated and bleary, wrapper and rug
Pound aldermanic and gouty limbs hug.
Each civic mug
Leers cm the crowd nor discovers the jeer,
Takes in good faith the ironical cheer,
Smiling and smirking and smug.
Oh ! to be seen,
Seen by one’s friends—by the people we know,
No mere spectator, but part of the she »v,
Honour not mean,
rv ot though alone for distinction agreed
Have these stout fellows, who wish the show speed,
lor the real business to follow—the feed,
Dreaming of fat that is green.
Squalor and rags,
Hunger and wretchedness lining the way,
Ever unnoticed whose tatters gainsay
Spouter who brags :
“ This our great city, and so on, ad lib ,
Wealthiest, healthiest drivels so glib,
At the feast slobbers nor flags.
What means the cheer?
Hearty, spontaneous and real—well we. know
Such never greeted the guys in a “ show.”
What have we here ?
Popular, well-known “somebodies” No!
Who are these needy ones, wretched and low ?
Who pace, out of place, in this bluster and blow ?
Why that re-echoing cheer ?
Strange in this manner
Thus to be greeting old paupers twould seem,
Dim eyes re-kindle—old, thin faces beam,
Dazed by such welcome—of what do they dream *>
Look to that banner !
No civic badge that now comes to the fore.
Brief —but those names keep their spell as of yore,
“ Inker man ” —“Balaclava”—who would read
more ?
Remembered—aye, hark to that deafening roar.
Welcome, though late
Not quite forgotten old vet Tans—alas.
Not by the million who cheer as you pass,
Nor by the great.
At the proud banquet they’re gracing to-night,
Grandly they’ll speak of your prowess in fight,
Grudging no tribute to Guardsmen and “Light,”
While for a meal —you may wait.
“ Honour the Light Brigade,”
“ Honoured ” if long delayed,
Taking the road with the city’s big nobs,
Bloated and bibulous—heroes with snobs
Scars shaming scrofulous medals—gold fobs,
Wielders of battle-blade,
Welders of “jobs.”
So, ’tis all past,
Still I am asking, if never to know,
What the great moral of London’s great “ show,”
Pride minus intellect, wealth versus woe,
Vanity vast.
Wearied with viewing a pageant so vain
This year I vow ne’er to view such again—
So I did last.
WILLIAM E. IMESON.
London, 10th Nov., 1890.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcad e
The Shannon File and Transfer Cases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional office. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maclardy, 319
George-street, Sydney.
Tea in 201b. and 401b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the t<. & S. Tea Co.
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. C. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 35s. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
Au exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wdlfc-'Schnafpps —for the liver tind v kid n&jrs.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— look for £1 orders.
Wolfe s Schnapps will do you no harm.
to
m
j-leioht 4- 1- . Length 4-T10'". Depth
IS the most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
Seven Octaves. Full Trichord, Iron Frame. Patent Check Action. Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases.
This Piano is introduced by W. II. PALING & CO., Limited, for the
, purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a firatrdass Piano at a price heretofore
I paid for a much inferior instrument.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co. ’s pure teas.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. L)e*
igns free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
Tlae Road to Fortune !
Experience teaches us that one of the safest investments to be got is land close to large centres
of population, if bought at low rates. Such a chance now presents itself in WESTERN AUS-
-IRALIA, and persons buying land there now will reap the same benefits as the early buyers of
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE have done. We have SPLENDID BUILDING SITES at PERTH
from £l5 each, CITY BLOCKS for £25, on very easy terms. Also, ALLOTMENTS and BLOCKS
at ALBANY from £lO each. £1 deposit and a few shillings a week will meet the payments. All
guaranteed good, level, building land, and a Eree Deed to every purchaser. Send for plans to
T. TATE & CO., 278 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. (Interesting Books, with Maps, Views, etc.,
Is. each. Send stamps.)
T3ae Celebrated
EXCEL
ALE OTHERS!
FIRST PRIZES
—ALL—
EXHIBITIONS.
G
Wholesale Depot:
23! mmi STREET,
SYDNEY.
PIPES.
J&TR ADE , |^fj
Regd.
By Special Appointment to H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES.
Buy Direct
PURE LINENS
AND
Damask Table Linen
FROM
The Oldest Establishment for Linen in the North of Ireland.
SUPERIOR QUALITY.—IMMENSE SAVING.
“ The celebrated Damask Table Linen from the Royal Manufactory , Ardoyne , stands unrivalled."
Our Silk and Linen Tea Cloths and Dinner Table Centres are the i ichest things yet produced. Openwork and Fancy
Linen Goods in endless variety. Ladies and Gentlemen furnishing or replenishing should write for Price Lists and
Samples. A larcel 2-lbs. weight can be sent by Parcel Post for Is. 6d., and for each lb. additional up to 11-lbs .
9d. per lb. Large Orders forwarded by best and cheapest route. F
* ART LINENS.—EMBROIDERY CANVAS.-DRESS CAMBRICS.
Telegrams,
Muror, Belfast.
MURPHY & ORR, Belfast, Ireland.
LESSONS GIVEN TO PURCHASERS
LICHTNER & CO.’S APPARATUS.
X
SI
<B5
£
snii'i’ij»ti
Q
»»
ft
VL
1
\
DARK ROOM FITTED WITH EVERY CONVENIENCE
AT THE DISPOSAL OF AMATEURS.
“Quick, Mary, he must know we’re only jist married. He’s idin’ ’is ’ead to give us a chance,”
SEND FOR LIST OF AMATEUR OUTFITS.
LICHTNER CO,
SYDNEY- 318 George Street. BRISBANE- 9 Ha yen' BulMlng., Elizabeth stroet.
Musical.
MUSIC an<l MUSICAL IN BTKIIMENTS
at reduced prices. Latest soners, sheet music, and
annuals cheaper than anywhere else. Violins, excellent
tone, 12s 6d, 255, £2 10s, and £5 ; good cases or bows,
2s 6d, ss, 7s 6d, up to £2 2s each ; accordeons, 6s 6d,
10s 6d, 15s, to £3 10s; concertinas, 4s (id, 7s 6d, 15s;
Anglo, steel reeds, 35s ; English (48 kej r s) steel reeds,
£3 3s and upwards. Best Roman strings, flutes, piccolos,
cornets, tambourines, mouth-organs, brass and nickel
whistles, bridges, tailpieces, chinrests, tuning pipes,
rosin equally as cheap. Repairs of high-class workman-
ship. Charges strictly moderate. Lessons on all instru-
ments. Pianos tuned, 7s 6d. Country orders promptly
attended to. J. ALBERT’S Cheap Music Depot, 108 King
Street, Sydney.
MUSICAL.
Pianoforte Pupils should buy INGHAM’S PATENT
SCALE INSTRUCTOR to learn scales quickly, 3s. 6d.
Note —Anyone would play the most intricate scale with
five minutes instruction.
Ingham’s Improved Fia.no Vamping Instructor,
Without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted from
Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
KEAH THUS CAREFULLY!—Revolution in the
j Music Trade ! ! ! -For cash or on time payments, 700
j Violins, from 3s lid to £25 ; 550 Accordeons, from 3s 6d
j to £3; 120 Banjos, from 2s to £lO ; Zithers, from 21s;
Mandolines, from 25s ; Guitars, from 7s 6d ; Cornets,
I 30s to £3O ; Flageolets ; Flutes, from 6d ; Drums ; Anglo
and English Concertinas, from 25s ; German Concertinas,
from 2s lid ; Nigger Bones, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Double
Basses, Brass Bands, String Bands complete, Pianos,
Organs, Comic Song Books. New Music by every mail;
New Waltzes every week ; New Songs by every mail.
Pianos Exchanged and Tuned. Any kind of instrument
thoroughly repaired by experienced English workmen.
Write for full particulars ; the prices will astonish you.
25,0 0 Songs and Pieces—3d each.
H O "W .A- DEI. X 3 & CO.,
OCEAN STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted ; Good Commission Paid for
Good Business.
Miscellaneous.
WORD COMPETITION.
STOCKTON SCHOOL OF ARTS.
The Committee of the above Institution offers a prize
of £lO 10s. to the competitor who can make the most
words, under conditions hereunder, from the word
“ Municipalities.” As a second prize, for the second
highest number of words, a trophy will be given. No
word will be accepted that cannot be found in either the
Imperial or Chamoers Etymological Dictionary. Provided,
however, that all plurals of such words may be given as
separate words. No word must be used more than once.
The fact that any word might be made more than once by
using duplicate fetters contained in the competitive word
shall not affect this last point. No word will be allowed
that contains any letter oftener than the same occurs in
the competitive word. Competitors should arrange their
words alphabetically. No member of the Committee will
be allowed to compete. All lists must be sent in, addressed
to the undersigned, on or before 25th March next. Every
list must be accompanied by a fee of 2s. 6d. Any com-
petitor wishing to have his list returned, must send
stamped addressed envelope for the purpose. The result
will be published in the issue of this paper of 4th April
next.
H. A. GRAHAM, Secretary.
In the matter of the Companies’ Act, and in the
matter of the Federated Squatter* and
Fanners’ Co-operative Association of Austra-
lasia, Limited (in Liquidation.)
THE CREDITORS of the above-named Com-
pany .are required on or before the 16th day
of February, 1891, to send their names and
addresses and the particulars of their debts or
claims, and the names and addresses of their
solicitors in Sydney (if any) to CHARLES
TIMOTHY STARKEY, Esquire, of Empire
Buildings, York-street, Sydney, the Official
Liquidator of the said Company, and if so re-
quired by notice in writing from the said Official
Liquidator are by their solicitors to come in and
prove their said debts or claims at the Chambers
of the Master-in-Equity, in Chancery-square,
King-street, Sydney, at such time as shall be
specified in such notice, or in default thereof, they
will be excluded from the benefit of any distribu-
tion made before such debts are proved.
Dated this ninth day of January, 1891.
H. F. BARTON,
Master-in-Equity,
Medical.
MANHOO I>.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
t)S RKCORdV
lS sfc** cE °f L i fe-
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr, Ricortfs hssence of Lift restores manhood to the most
shattered and debilitated constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
Jn cases of 125., or four quantities in one for 36 s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on 1 eceipt of stamped addressed envelope*
Agents for Australasia—Perry & Co., 73 Gertrude Street
Fitzroy , Melbourne.
Agents for N.S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
■'\TERVOTTS SUFFERERS, from secret oi
other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but don-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
LADIES,
■CONSULT the'Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER)J 2!) York-st.,
' Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55.. post free.
&
<2. 4
&
from
■ every flower that '*
breathes a fragrance
'SWEET SCENTS
Iloxotis opoponax
I\FRANGIPANNJ psidium
May be obtained
Of any Chimist or
Perfumer.
> t,
■®OUd : ?*’ ■
vA>°
Beware of imitations: The genuine is sit/aed
JBA-DF. MARK . MU.-SK DKKR
A Mount Brown Bog Yarn
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Why don't I p’ison that mongrel, now that he’s
old and blind ?
Look here, boss, I wouldn’t swap him for any dog
you could find ;
“See nothing about him,” p’r’aps not, but then if
you only had
A heart as true and faithful—well, you wouldn’t
be half bad.
He belonged to a cove on Mount Brown, in the
earliest days of the rush,
As used to be splitting timber and knockin’ about
in the bush.
One day that chap was missin’ and a Chow he
comes in to me
And says, “Dead man down the creek there is
stuck in the fork of a tree.”
Well, I goes down with the Sargint, and we finds
him dead as a log,
His legs was smashed all to pieces. Wait. I’ll tell
you about the dog.
Poor chap! he’d climbed up in the fork, and cut
through a heavy limb :
When it fell it somehow sprang back in the fork,
and that was the end of him.
The Chows heard someone a-oalling for help all
through the night,
But the yaller curs was frightened, they thought
it was someone tight.
It’s fearful to think what he suffered—what
horrible, dreadful pain,
And them cowardly Chinkies list’ning and lettin’
him call in vain.
We had to chop down the gum-tree, then we dug
his grave right there,
And we buried him snug and tidy, an’ the Sargint
read a prayer ;
Then we started back for the township, but I
happened to look around,
And I sees that dog there a-scratchiu’ like mad at
the little mound.
He must have been planted somewhere, or dodgin’
round in the bush,
And watchin’ the whole of the business as was
goin’ on wi’ the push.
He rounded on me when I caught him ; even now
he won’t make free.
I daresay that’s nine years ago, but p’ison him,
six, no, not me.
Do I think he remembers his master ? Look here,
Boss, when me and you
Throw-out, may we have a mourner as unforgittin’
and true.
If dogs has got a hereafter, it ’ud be a reglar treat
To see the ghost of old Punch there and that of
his master meet.
ROY HARPER.
AMERICA’S GREATEST STATESMAN
At one of the large dinners given at the seat of
government lately, the great orator said: “Permit
me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that there is no
drink in the world so conducive to social inter-
course as the famous St. Louis Lager Beer. As
a mental and physical relaxative it has no equal.
It refreshes the body and exhilarates the mind.
It gently moves the blood to accelerated action,
and arouses the more generous sentiments that
cluster around the human heart. Its action in-
spires noble thoughts, and at the banquet table,
with intellect and genius, it touches chords of
inspiration that prompt to lofty efforts.”
We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which should be a guarantee that clients will
be fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
FREETRADE OR PROTECTION.
Some vote Protection, some Preetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask the youth or blushing maid,
And each will answer—Pemell’s Meal
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Liver complaints.—Dr. King’s Dandelion
and Quinine Liver Pills, without mercury, are a
potent—English remedy; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness, headache, sick-
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con-
stipation.
Perfection with Simplicity distinguishes the
Shannon Letter and Bill”Pile. No folding;
all papers open flat. No endorsing; always in
order of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maclakdy, 319 Georve-street Sydney.
A N.S. Wales up-South Mayor and J.P.
recently sat heavily on the chest of a local pub-
lican who lodged a complaint about the stench
arising from a gigantic piggery in the vicinity of
his recently-erected, costly hotel, which was so
terrible that the boarders were driven away. The
stye being a vested interest the Mayor was averse
to its removal, and thus addressed the hotel-
keeper; “ Har you not aweer, Mr. Bungstarter,
that them tit ere peegs was there before you was?”
Which Solomonic remark settled the question to
the satisfaction of all but the boarders.
The Cooktown (Q.) Independent says that
during the past 16 years 100 Europeans from that
port alone, nearly all good men and true, have
been treacherously murdered by Australian
aborigines and Papuans ; and that with the excep-
tion of about a dozen who live in daily dread of a
bloody end, all the 250 men formerly engaged in
the beche-de-mer industry have either been wiped
out or driven back upon Southern civilisation !
Yet the missionaries, who have been a law unto
themselves, have made the most of a few isolated
acts of scoundrelism as extenuation for the shed-
ding of innocent blood by their nominal converts,
and the immunity of the latter from retribution
under the wings of the native teachers has encour-
aged the increase of murders to an abnormal
extent.
Electric light wins in Melbourne. The
Corporation has decided to give up Gas.
Among the law-books often to be found in
Australian libraries are several bearing the
autograph of “Henry Parkes,” with date “1859.”
Ihe jockey-ring formed amongst the 8st
uders at Hand wick has been engaging the atten-
tiou o f the A.J.C. Committee, with the result
that a few jockeys have had their licenses granted
only for four months, instead of twelve as here-
tofore.
I reixch authors on cremation or burial ;
Zola “Leave the thing to the decision of the
loved ones we leave behind.” Daudet —-“Either
one would be disagreeable to me.” P
Coppee—“I will go to sleep in the cemetery.”
feouvestre—“I prefer the ground, from which
flowers spring for lovers.” Sarcey—“If I die in
Paris, I will be cremated there.” Jules Simon—
“ My children will choose the method which will
give them the least horror.”
The survival of the fittest means that the
coward with the longest legs gets away first, and
lies low till the other fellow is killed.
The cutting-up of Queensland sugar plan-
tations into small leaseholds for white farmers
has begun at Bundaberg, the first sub-divided
estate being Pemberton Grange, the late invest-
ment of a Sydney firm. Farmers will lease the
land with an “ option of purchase ” clause.
A recent announcement of a marriage in
the London papers informed the world that the
bridegroom was one of tire Crown-Prosecutors in
New South Wales. This is a novel recommenda-
tion for matrimony, but it means that the “ one ”
gets a fixed salary of about £500 a year and spends
six months in each year prosecuting horse-thieves
in country districts. The junior Crown-Prose-
cutor has been 30 years at the Bar, so no inference
of youthfulness would arise from the addition.


ğ
DENM Alt
Registered
Unequalled, Unexcelled, Unsurpassed and Guaranteed to Cure all Blood and Nervous Diseases. Discovered, Registered and Prepared
’■ "//n\v -
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
4
%
%
%
(%,
ft
E
s
T
0
R
E
s
I
0
s
T
V
1
T
A
L
!
T
V
ġ
:H t#
ģ
0$
g
0
hi
pgACE
gg
Bestores
AMU
A
'■A*\
A Guaranteed Cure
for Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. (id. per Course.
Smaller Box 6s. 6d.
Posted - 23/(5 and 6/-
By HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Only Herbalist in Australia,
Who has received “Gold Medal ” for Great Cures Performed, and is Honourably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries; and who can prove that he has CURED OVER 20,000 SUFFERERS with his Remedies.
Sole Proprietor and Discoverer of the Celebrated
DHWMiVRK; VITALITY PILLS, Registered
W Inch have been the means of Curing so many Thousands of Sufferers from Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors, Weakness, Despondency,
Impure Blood. 225. Gd. per Course ; Smaller Box, us. Gd- Posted, 23/G and 6/-
Genuine Testimoniala.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
bad failed.- JOHN REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious
nature, after all the doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Annidale.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, —I hereby thank you for the great cure your remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and X shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—THOS.
MUDIMAN, Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
factor,— It gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease, Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend your remedies to all. —
Yours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western'Coffee Palace, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases.—Dear
Sir,—l hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
•cured me, one course of your Vitality" Pills being sufficient.—D.
M'NEILL, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
mi
of "t2a.es Fi’eas.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have beemshown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. —Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years.— Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his mi raculous cures. —Balmain Leader, May 12,1855.
HERR RASSMUSSEN. —The remarkable cures which he has effected
are pretty generally known.—Balmain Observer, April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters irom HRRR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting us to make known to the public the wonder-
ful medical skill this remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 20, 1887.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly complimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important cures effected by his remedies. Sydney
Evening News, March 7, 1890.
xlerr llassmussen’s Hox’toca*! DR. exaa. oolites, (REGISTERED.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. 6d. per full course ; small box, ss. (id.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d, per course ; small box, ss. fed. Posted, 235. fed. and 6s.
DENMARK LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 22/C per course ; small box, 5/6. Posted, 23/6 and 6/-
DENMARK LIVER and KIDNEY PlLLS.—Excellent to take with the above Pills for Costiveness, and guaranteed to cure Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Wind, Heartburn, and all
complaints peculiar to the Liver and Kidneys. Is. and 2s. 6d. per box. Posted, Is. 6,1. and 3s.
DENMARK HAIR and SKIN BEAUTlFlER.—Guaranteed to cure all Affections of the Skin, and prevents the Hair from turning grey. Excellent for the complexion.
2s. 6d. per packet. Posted, 3s.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS only, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness,
sent free, on receipt of fed stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by post, free. Patients’ blood and urine, when sent by post, are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address; - Herr EASSMIJSSEN, the Danish Herbalist,
Box 200, General Post Office, Sydney.
N.B. —All correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
All the above Remedies may also be obtained personally at 58 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
'mmfy
%>
\h
%
%
%
4
\
%
•Jc.
%\
%
rt
ğ
p
T il
%\
I
n
;y
If
1
\'t
ntHI
&
ti
f#
ġ
ri
'pjACE
mm.
Restores
R
A Guaranteed Cure
for Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. 6d. per Course.
Smaller Box ss. (id.
Posted - 23/0 and 6/
J
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and Verse, by “ Bulletin ” Writers.
The Brightest, Best and most Original Shlliing Book ever published in
1
5 country.
To be obtained from all Booksellers,
H. P. GREGORY &
ENGINEERS
- -
General Machinery Merchants.
xei
Clarence-st., Sydney, &; at Melbourne &; Brisbane,
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EDSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., &c.
UAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &C.
f
m
it'
73
-----
i
pi
'Webber’a 3?atent Centrifugal 3Pump.
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEYANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
and EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS.
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing),
Also. FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE. AMERICAN FUSE,
Ac., Ac.
STEAM ENGlNES—Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined, from two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
Engines. Boiler Feed Injectors. ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing Machines, &c°
FAIRBANKS'S Scales and Weighbridges. Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease, Belting, Emery Wheels!
Sight Feed Lubricators. Pickering Engine Governors. KiT Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
: He Loqdoij & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port in N. 3-Walea.
31
Packed In
2C-Ij. and 40-lb. Chests.
Price:
1/0. 1 0, £/., & 2/6 per lb.
Write to us for
Samples, Post Free


Give the London & Sydney Tea Co. one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in jNT.S. Wales.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
and should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, £6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Colemane and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
ģ
r-
-7
ABSOLUTELY
I
P
m
m
h
V'
-i
m
=3
*
ST
O
o
LJ
CD
O
P.
o
&
O
R
mm
m
m
ss^a
*o>
The Land of the Crocodile
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
When Leichhardt was out on the Mac-
kenzie River on the 27th February, 1845, he
presented an innocent and inoffensive tribe of
myalls with a Queen Victoria coronation medal.
There was really no reason for this heartless out-
rage, as the_ tribe had done no harm to Leich-
hardt, and it can only be accounted for by the
kindly supposition that the famous explorer was
guiltless of evil intent. The medal was fatal to
the tribe, and one by one each wearer of that
Britannia-metal symbol assumed unwarrantable
airs land an intolerably despotic attitude, and
demanded the whole of the revenues of the tribe
until they rose up in wrath and laid him gently
out with a nulla. Finally there was but one man
left—a grey-haired old warrior who walked
moodily about the forest with the medal in one
hand and a stone tomahawk in the other, cursing
the memory of Leichhardt in seven distinct
dialects, and wildly imploring the spirits of his
ancestors to pilot him to the “ gin ” who formed
the original of that bas-relief, so that he might
exterminate her, and all her race, and perish
peacefully among the ruins.
* * *
A tale of the times of old. About 20
years ago the late Judge Blake and M‘Devitt, a
well-known lawyer and politician of “ thim days,”
were opposing counsel at Maryborough before the
late Justice Lutwyche. Blake had a curious habit
of occasionally thrusting his tongue out round his
cheek, and MDevitt, laughing aloud at this per-
formance, had to explain to the judge that he was
unable to resist aloud smile at Blake’s “hopeless
efforts to lick his ear ” ! Then Blake, in a voice
of thunder, “Your honor, no man more appre-
ciates a good, healthy, honest laugh than I do,
but that was not a laugh ! It was only a dirty,
mane, Irish shnivel!”
* * *
Once the late Judge Pring, and the present
Judge Harding, were opposing counsel before
Chief Justice Cockle—Cockle, by the way, is
closely related to Cockle’s pills, and is a genial
old gentleman in much request at the Savage
Club, London. Harding was continually rising
to object to Pring’s course of procedure, until
Pring, in a choleric spasm, exclaimed : “ Oh, sit
down, and be damned! ” Then Harding fero-
ciously observed that he was not to be put down
by a—well, a person of unknown paternity, only
he expressed it all in one word. Pring, in wild
rage, “ You are a liar! and if you say that out-
side I’ll knock ten thousand blazes out of you ! ”
But this was only one of the legal amenities of
“ The days when our hearts were volcanic.”
And Pring and Harding became fast friends, and
were both duly sorry for the impromptu and un-
founded observations of their early days.
* # #
And this reminds me that when one of the
Swanwieks was discovered in the Supreme Court
with a loaded revolver in his pocket, presumably
with the amiable intention of shooting Sir Samuel
Griffith, Harding at once intimated that he would
probably sentence the sportsman to forty years for
contempt of court! The punishment of a man
who used Pring’s language to the Harding of to-
day would probably be imprisonment for eternity,
seated on a red-hot gridiron. The unfortunate
Swanwick, whose revolver became a historical
weapon, was found drowned two or three years ago
on the beach at Port Douglas.
# * *
The military tournament at Warwick on
the 13th ult. recalls March of 1860, when Sir
George Bowen was met there by a cavalcade of
horsemen with an address of welcome, and in
reply the champion hierarch of bunkum said :
“There are only two places in the world where I
could be received by such a splendid body of
cavalry, and those are England and Warwick.”
This magnificent eulogiurn overpowered the War-
wick cavalry, who forthwith vanished on the edge
of the horizon in search of some unconquered
realms worthy of their matchless prowess, and
forgot to come back again. Bowen’s speech was
deadlier than a battle.
* * *
In my possession is a copy of Bowen’s
“ Ithaca in 1850,” printed in 1854 by James
Ridgway, of Piccadilly, and dedicated to Glad-
stone. He was then “George Ferguson Bowen,
M.A., F.R.G. S., Fellow of Brasenose College,
Oxford.” This book was priced 25., and reached
a third edition. Bowen in 1850 was an official
resident of Corfu. He married a Greek wife
named “Roma Theamantina,” the latter freely
Anglicised to “ Diamantina.” She gave her
names to our western town of Roma and the
Diamantina River. The book is gracefully written,
and contains a brief account of the splendidly-
heroic defence of Missolonghi against the Turks
under Mehemet and Ibrahim Pashas —a defence
worthy of the days of Salamis and Thermopylae.
* # #
The following notice I copied personally
from the original on the front of Marshall’s hotel
on the Brunswick River :—“Four sail. 8 bullocks
with truck and troley and Geer compleat, with 44
crosscut cedar logs and 6 cedar treas four further
peticklirs a Ply to the under sine!” The “four
sail ” greminds me of the illiterate grocer who
chalked “for sail” on an empty cask as the front
door, and a wag wrote underneath : “For freight
or passage apply at the bunghole. ”
* * *
One of the most remarkable men in
Queensland is Phillip Pinnock, police magistrate
of Brisbane. He is a tall, stately, dignified old
gentleman 6 feet 3 inches, and straight as an
arrow. He is the youngest-looking man of his
age in Bananaland, and in this regard is probably
not surpassed in Australia. Apparently he is not
more than 50, and yet he must be nearer 70. He
is announced in Pugh’s Almanio as born at
Jamaica in 1827, but I find by authentic official
records that he was the lessee of Ellangowan
Station, on the Darling Downs, in 1844. He was
P.M. at Bowen in 1864. He is a man and a
gentleman, and though we may take exception to
his moral homilies from the Bench, and question
the wisdom of an occasional decision, no one can
doubt his conscientiousness or integrity. That he
has not pleased everybody is only a trifle in face
of the fact that a majority of the human race con-
demn nearly all the works of the Almighty Him-
self.
* * *
The rum-drinking of the present day is
only a feeble imitation of the early times. When
Flinders started for his second trip along the East
coast of Australia in 1802 he took 1483 gallons of
rum purchased from an American vessel for 6s. 6d.
per gallon ! The old pioneer timber-getters on the
coast rivers of N.S. Wales bought rum in hogs-
heads, and drank it out of a bucket. “ What’s a
gallon o’ rum among one of us ? ” was the in-
dignant query of one of these ancient warriors.
And when I see a modern bushman paralytically
drunk, and emitting snores like unto the croaks of
a green frog, after a pitiful half-dozen nips of
colonial rum or imported whisky, I cannot refrain
from shedding tears over the degeneracy of this
effeminate age and the departure of the glorious
cast-iron robustness of the past. In justice to the
present, however, we must remember that in the
early days there was no “very old matured
Jamaica ” made six weeks before in Sydney, nor
any “ famous old Scotch whisky 10 years in bond,”
manufactured from chemicals in a Brisbane cellar;
and that even Blinders’ sailors and the cedar-
getters of ’45 would be knocked out after a few
days’ sojourn at the average public-house of 1891.
We can therefore congratulate the old hands in
having wisely died in time, in the company and
under the influence of good spirits.
* # *
Among the living representatives of the
old Australian explorers, in addition to Sir George
Grey, is the Hon. A C. Gregory, of Brisbane,
who was nearly constantly out from ’46 to ’6l.
W. O. Hodgkinson, our Minister for Mines, was
one of the Burke and Wills Expedition, and
second in command with M‘Kinlay in 1862. At
Merriwa, in N.S.W., lives John Roper, of Leich-
hardt’s _ first journey in 1844 (the Roper River,
N.T., is his godchild); and at Neutral Bay,
Sydney, resides John B. Mann, of Leichhardt’s
second trip. Roper lost the sight of one eye and
was otherwise badly wounded on the night of the
28th June, 1845, when Gilbert, the naturalist,
was speared to death by the blacks on the Nassau
River in the Gulf country.
MAROOGALINE.
The theatrical critic of London Athenaeum,
in the latest number to hand, makes rather an
odd use of the pronoun “ his,” and obviously it is
not a mistake, but set down boldly, as the right
thing to do. After grouping together Mr.
Wyndham, Mrs. Bernard Beere and Mr. Cyril
Maude, the critic says: “Each of these artists
adapted his method to the parts.”
Sir A. Clarke, formerly Victorian Sur-
veyor-General, is busy on a plan to furnish
Palestine with railways. A line is already under-
way to connect Jerusalem with the coast, but the
most extraordinary scheme is the Jordan ship
canal, from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea,
through Palestine, obliterating the Dead Sea and
many Scripture sites. Cook’s tourists take the
edge off Jerusalem, and there is a wire-tram up
Mount Calvary.
Writes Bavousky :—“lt is forced on me
that the sum of evil in the world is a fixed
quantity, and, indeed, this seems to be borne out
by the teaching of Jesus, re wheat and tares.
Take a girl off the streets and another replaces
her. Quetelet, the statistician, brought out the
movements of crime, regular as the tides, and
from these we can argue all through the social
fabric. Our work may be as of Ixion, with his
wheel, and Sisyphus, with his stone, but we
blindly go on.
Dear Bulletin, —This is from the (London)
Times
Mr. narrative of his adventures, privations,
sufferings, trials, dangers and discoveries during his
heroic quest and rescue of Emin Pasha is as moving and
enthralling a tale as ever was told by man. It is, more-
over, told with so genuine a modesty of temper, so
transparent a fidelity to fact, so generous and eager a
desire on the part of the leader of the expedition to give
their due meed of praise and recognition to each and all
of his subordinates, not excepting the humblest of his
African followers, that the critic’s task becomes merely
one of unstinted admiration of the almost unexampled
greatness of the deeds accomplished, and the profound
ethical interest of the narrative which describes them.
Nor does the interest of the book depend only on the
thrilling natui'e of its subject matter; of its purely
literary merits we can speak in terms of high commenda-
tion. The style of the narrative is direct, vigorous and
incisive, as beseems one who is a man of action rather
than a man of letters; but in many of the descriptive
parts Mr. Stanley shows that, consummate man of action
as he is, he is a born man of letters as well.
A cycloramic puff like this, coming from the
Thunderer, gives us Australians, who can regard
Brigand Stanley calmly and judicially from a
distance, some idea of the silly adulation that is
lavished by the bull-headed British public upon
their latest brazen god. When we consider that
all this egoistic “hero” did was to cross Africa
with a large armed force, well-equipped and well-
provisioned, through a region the greater part of
which is fertile, and only in small tracts absolutely
barren, we laugh loudly at the “ almost un-
exampled greatness of the deeds accomplished.”
What were the “sufferings” and “privations”
which this gaudy hero had to bear ? The loss of his
hair-dye, it is true, but what else? A consider-
able number of his followers were left to starve,
but was the great man himself ever in want ? Not
he. He moved on in advance and procured food
as he went. Privations, indeed! Did this
“ hero ” ever have to subsist on nardoo in a sandy
desert like Burke and Wills, or boil the harness
of camels for food like MTGnlay? or, like the
gallant Eyre, wander all round the waterless great
Australian Bight sucking a piece of green horse-
hide, or, like Kennedy, force his way, wounded,
starving and dying, through the tropical scrubs of
North Australia, beset at every step by hostile
blacks ? The Times has probably never heard of
such insignificant feats as the exploits of Sturt,
Stuart and M'Kinlay, the “ privations and
sufferings ” of any one of whom would make
Stanley’s expedition by a comparison a pleasure-
trip. And for what end were book-canvasser
Stanley’s privations endured ? To find a man who
was not lost and to forcibly “rescue” him.
Naturally the process would reflect all the glory
on the tinselled and spangled leader of the expedi-
tion ; but that does not occur to the obtuse and
ponderous Times. The thing would.be laughable
if it were not so sickeningly disgusting. Aus-
tralia has had among her brave explorers far
greater —because more self-sacrificing—men than
Stanley, but they were men taciturn as the
mysterious wilderness through which they forced
their way, and they didn’t understand the
Yankee art of self-advertisement. —The J ackass,
Brisbane,


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To darken grey hair.—Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, beat, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. (id. Everywhere.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
soap
INDISPUTABLE EVIDENCE
OF SUPERIORITY.
DR. REDWOOD, Ph.D., F.C.S., F.I.C.,
Professor of Chemistry and Pharmacy to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
1 “My analytical and practical experience of Pears’
“Soap now extends over a very lengthened period—nearly fifty years—
“during which time
“I have never come across another Toilet
“ Soap which so closely realises my ideal
“of perfection;
“its purity is such that it may he used with perfect confidence upon the
“tenderest and most sensitive skin—even that of a n«\v horn habe.”
In Menioriain.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Samuel Duncan Parnell, founder of the Eight Hours
Labour movement, died at Wellington (N.Z.), where he
had lived for 51 years, on December 10,1890, aged 81: —
A king of men has passed away—
Not from a palace great,
But from a simple cottage home,
Devoid of pomp and state —
An uncrowned king, a Grand Old Man,
Who loved the people well,
The author of the Eight Hours Plan
Of Campaign—our Parnell!
His Home Rule was to rule the time
For us to work—and rest;
To give fair play in every clime
To all with toil oppressed,
To all the victims of the greed
Of those who buy and sell
The starving workers in their need —
True king was our Parnell!
No stain has ever soiled his name,
No Royal vice had he ;
His reign was pure and free from blame
Of kingly tyranny;
The grinding powery of Usury
From labour to repel,
And free the workers from its grasp—
Strove all his life, Parnell!
He worked with head—with heart and hand,
From early youth to age.
And in a new, unfettered land
He taught this precept sage,
“ Eight hours for work, eight hours for play
And eight for sleep excel.”
This was the charter for each day
Of our wise king, Parnell!
He lived a life of noble toil
With health and leisure crowned ;
Nor fawned he e’er for Fortune’s smile
Nor feared her when she frowned !
Against devouring Mammon Greed
He taught us to rebel,
“ Eight hours each day for work ” decreed —
The worker’s king, Parnell!
He resteth from his labours now ;
At four score years and one
His happy spirit passed away
To realms beyond the sun ;
His name, for ages, will remind
True men, of one who well
Deserved the love of all his kind —
New Zealand’s own Parnell!
Napier.
ALEXANDER STUART.
The earth continually moves because it’s
cheaper than paying rent. — Adapted from the
Yankee.
It may interest Australian friends of Im-
perial Federation to know that it is in the power
of an English Judge to open letters addressed to
jurors even after a trial is finished. It was done
in Mrs. Maybrick’s case.
bhes in Maoriland with a total membership of
over 3000. This organisation, being pledged to
secresy, can deyise counter moves to those of the
associated capitalists without disclosing them
prematurely. It differs from Trades-unionism in
allowing a percentage of employers to join its
ranks, and women to become members. The
local assemblies are of two kinds—mixed, in
which members of any trade, or of none, may
join ; and trade assemblies, instituted when a par-
ticular calling wishes to join en masse. In such
oases they bear the trade name. Thus : Shearers’
Trade Assembly, No. •. Mixed Assemblies
have general rules and contributions suitable to
the majority. Trade Assemblies fix rules and
rates according to special requirements. In view
of capitalists’ combinations and high-handed
actions of late, the secret organisation of Labour
may become a necessity. The political platform
of the K. of L., as framed in America to suit
American needs, is, generally speaking, appli-
cable here, but in one or two cases alterations
will be required. The movement would boom
if a practicable method could be devised of
absorbing or combining with the other labour-
unions in order to secure a maximum result, with
a minimum of organising expenditure, in strength
and funds.
A London debating society man asks
“why should we ask Mr. Parnell to retire into
private life, when he has proved so conclusively
that it is just in the sphere of private relations
that this powerful politician does not know how
to conduct himself ?” Another instanced David
as an instance of non-retirement from public life
under similar circumstances affecting Mrs. Bath-
sheba.
The British North Borneo Herald : —
We are informed that the Government has accepted the
sum of £100 from the Royal Geographical Society of
Australasia for Baron de Lisaa, in view to a survey of
Mount Kinabula, which will be undertaken jointly with
an agricultural survey by the Government of British
North Borneo. We shall await with interest the report
of the prospecting party.
What the deuce has Mount Kinabula got to do
with Australasia —even from a scientific point of
view?
One of the agonies of the bloated monarchy
of Roumania is that the Queen is an alleged
literary character, and reads all her productions
to the Ministry and the Court officials. Anybody
who attempts to criticise is promptly sacked, and
anybody who allows himself to look tired is
sacked also, and anybody who doesn’t applaud
loudly enough falls under the royal displeasure ;
and as Her Majesty’s inky gush is almost as bad
as the famous “Journal in the Highlands,” the
Roumanians will probably “ revolushe ” some day,
Mr, Wilfrid Blunt asks for a British
judicial inquiry into the doings of the Stanley
Expedition. He would like to know under what
legal sanction the brigand Stanley and his brutal
companions made their raid across Africa. He
points out that Stanley’s black recruits were
picked out of the slums of Cairo, and states that
“loot’’was the object of everyone in the expe-
dition, from leader to porter. Mr. Blunt wants
to know how many negro lives were sacrificed in
this march, how much blood was shed by Stan-
ley’s orders, how many porters shot down by his
own hand. Finally, he inquires why the British
Government subscribed £10,000 out of the
Egyptian purse to this freebooting excursion. All
very pertinent queries, and none of which can be
honestly explained away by Stanley and his
fellow-butchers.
The recent death of Otto Bathurst Palmer
Morrisett recalls to mind that it was his father,
when Commandant at Norfolk Island in the
thirties, that the convicts wanted badly
to “ cut up and roast.” The Colonel left the
island on the discovery of a widespread con-
spiracy to murder him, and was appointed P.M.
at Bathurst. When in the array he received a
bullet wound in the cheek, which gave him an odd
appearance and a peculiar way of speaking which
obtained for him the sobriquet of “wry-raouth.”
At Bathurst he had a prisoner charged before him
who was similarly afflicted, but the Colonel
thought the man was mocking, and sentenced
him to a month for contempt of Court. An
explanation was made, however, and the Colonel
discharged the man, “ giving him a handsome
apology and a sovereign to drink his health.” The
Colonel had two other sons, one Superintendent of
Police at Goulburn and the other Police Magis-
trate at Deniliquin, both now dead.
As Aggie was getting quite a big girl,
being nearly four, her mother thought that she
would dispense with the nurse and get a nursery
governess instead, and she arranged with pretty
Miss Peters to fill the position. But Aggie did
not approve of the change, and the morning that
Miss Peters arrived there was quite a scene. Papa
and mamma were called in to keep the peace, but
the little mite remained fractious. “ Aggie wants
nursy; Aggie won’t love Miss Peters. Aggie
won’t sleep with Miss Peters ; she will sleep with
her own mamma.” “But, dear,” said mamma,
“ where would poor papa sleep then ? ” “I don’t
tare.” Then, brightening up, “I know —Aggie
will sleep with her mamma, and papa can sleep
with ” But, as Aggie’s simple method of
getting out of the difficulty sent Miss Peters
blushing out of the room, and scattered the com-
pany generally, perhaps I had better not repeat
iL—Australasian.
Sitting Bull, chief of the Sioux Indians,
and the Napoleon of the Red Men, first made his
name nearly 30 years since, but his most notorious
achievement was his complete annihilation of
Custer’s cavalry 14 years ago. His blanket and
wigwam are shared by a New York lady who
loves adventure, and is of a romantic turn of
mind. She is very rich, and her fortune, for the
present, is at the Bull’s disposal, which accounts
for the plentiful supply of arms and ammunition
in possession of the continually moved-on Sioux.
Statistics explain the Dakota rising. Thirty
years ago the population was about 3000 : now it
amounts to three-fifths of a million. The Red
Man wants room; the white man deprives him
of it.
In the good old days of the Sydney
“ roster,” before stipendiaries were appointed, an
old grocer J.P. named Love, known as “ Bulls-
eye ” Love, from the fact that he was always
sucking “sweets” of that name on the bench,
used to take his turn quite regularly at the court
and dispense fines and penalties with much im-
partiality. “How (suck) do you plead (suck.)
Eh?” (suck.) “Guilty, yer Worship, an’ God
love ye, Misther Love, an’ let me off aisy.’
“Five shillings” (suck.) “I’ve only got two
shillin’s, yer Worship.” “If you hadn’t (suck)
had so much (suck) drink, you’d have (suck) enough
to pay the fine (suck.) Seven days (suck) in
default ” (suck. ) “May ye niver suck another
lolly, ye ould rapscallion 1” was the rejoinder as
the virago was hustled out.
The death of Police-Inspector Harrison at
Wagga last week recalls an incident of 30 years
ago, which he was instrumental in clearing up.
Thomas Charles Bentley, afterwards Secretary to
the Union Club, Sydney, arrived in N.S.W. in
January, 1860. He was accompanied by his wife,
formerly Julia Monk, a pianiste, of Exeter,
England. In June, 1861, and for seven months
afterwards, a number of anonymous letters affect-
ing the character of Mrs. Bentley were received
by the principal people in Sydney. Mrs. Bentley
also alleged that she was insulted and assaulted
in the streets. Parliament appointed a committee
to investigate, which exonerated all the persons
whom the Bentleys accused. Harrison, who was
then chief of the local detectives, gave it as his
belief that the Bentleys were the authors of the
letters, as he had discovered that a similar occur-
rence happened to Mrs. Bentley when Miss Monk
in Exeter.
We are informed that W. W. Lyght, a
delegate from the Philadelphian Knights of
Labour, who organised Assemblies of that body
in Melbourne and Wagga Wagga, is about to
establish one in Sydney. Prior to visiting Aus-
tralia this propagandist had established 20 assem-
“ Haddon Chambers, the young Australian
author of * The Idler,’ is one of three notable men
in London who carry a license to drive a hansom
cab. Toole is another, and Whistler a third.
Chambers’ frequent night occupation is to take a
hansom, put the cabby inside, and drive home.
Sometimes Chambers drives his friends home
from the club. Very often he, Toole, and Irving
have indulged in this strange midnight diversion,
the cabby of necessity being a passenger.” This
is cut from a Yankee paper and goes to prove
that when Australia lost Haddon Chambers she
parted with a great advertiser.
Dear Bulletin,- —The Presbyterian Church
Assembly is a godly body. It is hyper-super-
extra eServescingly loyal. It owns such an orna-
ment as Sir James MacBain, knighted by and
beloved of Her Most Gracious Majesty. It is a
bulwark of the Empire—an Imperial buttress.
It is one of the recognised, and-by-letters-patent,
looms that weave “those silken bonds” that
enmesh the liberty of Australia. It fears God
and honours the Queen. It is so moral that even
the wholesome statutes enacted by the elected
Wisdom of the people are sometimes too wicked
for it. Therefore, the Presbyterian Church
Assembly hath, after prayer and wrangling,
instructed its ministers “not to celebrate mar-
riage between persons either of whom have been
divorced” under certain clauses of Shiels’ Act.
These holy men thus defy the law, and drive the
amorous ‘ ‘ propinques ” out of their fold. Of course,
it is always optional for a clergymen individually to
decline to marry any applying couple, but it is a
fairly debateable question whether a body of
clergymen, no matter of what church they may
be, who parade offensively anathemas against the
law, and place on record their defiance of the
Marriage Act, should not be counterblasted by
being deprived of their State licenses to marry,
unless they publicly recant their heresies against
Parliament. What sa s y you ? The Presbyterian
clergymen certainly fail to render unto Csesar the
the things that are Csesar’s.— Dipso.


HOLDSWOETH, MACPHEESON & CO.,
254 & 256 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Patented
Specialities for Summer Season.
Champion. Ice Machine.
The only effective one for Domestic or Hotel use. Easy and Cheap.
Ice for next to nothing.
A
m
TOBIN & DAVIDSON’S
Patent Limestone Filter.
The only perfect Filter. Specially adapted for
Australian water.
Gordon Patent Canvas Filter and
Butter Refrigerator.
The established Favourite. Selling in ThoiF
sands. Specially for Outdoor Use.
Publications, &c.
You Only, O! Books, are Liberal and
Independent.
Dymock’s Book Arcade,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(next Royal Hotel).
Half-a-million of Books (20 miles long) always on
view. Free to the inspection of all.
43T No officious Librarians to interrupt you. IES
50,000 Books Offered at Half-price.
Every Book you want may be had at
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 George Street, next Royal Hotel.
Books on Medicine
Building
Farming
Poultry
Useful Arts and
Trades
Mining
J,aw
)
BOOKS
ON
Religion
Gaines
Horses
Engineering
Fine Arts
Astronomy
Men
BOOKS ON EVERYTHING !
SCHOOL BOOKS. SC..OOL BOOKS.
Parents can save 20 per cent, by BUYING their
BOOKS at
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE.
STATIONERY. STATIONERY.
Envelopes, 2s. (id. per 1000.
Splendid Note-paper ... 9d. per packet.
Save Money and get Good Value.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 George Street, next Royal Hotel.
MAGNIFICENT PHOTO ALBUMS.
Beautifully Illuminated and Bound in Morocco.
Published at *2 25.; offered for 17s. (id.
PHOTO. FRAMES PHOTO. FRAMES
One Shilling will Buy a beautiful Frame at DYMOCK’S
BOOK ARCADE.
LADIES’ BAGS and PURSES.
Best assortment in Australia—at prices that will delight
and please all.
Mercantile Stationery Cheaper than Ever.
Account Books of every description, Inks, l ens, Pencils
all kinds of papers. Everything re uired for the mer-
chant’s office at Nett London Prices.
Early Australian Books.
Splendid Library just purchased, containing many rare
and curious gems; also, charming copies of Philip’s Voyage
Hunter Collins’ History, Therry Reminiscences!
Mudie s Felonry, Cook s Original Voyages, Dampier’s and
upwards of 500 scarce books on Australian History can be
inspected at
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Next Royal Hotel),
Companies.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY,
Authorised Capital, £250,000!* in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,300; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
Bead Office i Fill I Market Streets, Sydney.
Board of Directors •
Francis Abigail,, Esq. M.P. .Chairman ; Ald. S. G. Daviso
• •, T. H. Hassell, Esq., M.P. ; William Bull, Esq J P
Robt. Cunningham Esq. ’
GOULBURN BRANCH : AUBURN STREET,
C. H. Atkinson, Manager.
on A JuW 29 n wm < the last) declare
The niniff, 1 ? pay , able on and after the 14th Ano- us
particular ‘'hoard d ba ? kin * bnsinesg in ever
Advantages granted to CommereiaT Clien^^veSraf!
graiited against deposit of Deeds without mortgage
Fbced Dc|osits. KatCS °* Interest Siven fo
mISwuZSK 4 AccoUllte «
By order of the Board of Directors
RODERICK M'NAMARA, General Manager.
A GOLDEN SHANTY.”
In Handsome CLOTH BINDING, 2s. 6d., Post Paid.
Shopping by Post
the celebrated
\ ORIENT clothing/
\ FOR /
\ Boys’ and Men’s /
\ Summer Wear /
First Quality, Men’s Tweed Suits - 355.
Extra Quality, do. do* 40s.
Special Quality do. 50s.
Send for Samples.
SEND FOR A
m
ivairi
POST FREE.
GEORGE STREET,
Opposite G.P.O.
STDITET-.
DAVID JONES & CO.,
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
All Parents should try tlie ORIENT
CLOTHING for tlieir Boys’
Softool and Best
Wear.
m
mm
NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
THE
&
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM OOESET
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Sniil in tin- Scams nor Tear In the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
„ e y*!? I EN says: “ These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being nl<o arranged diagonally, the scams have no strain
tKin U, r ,!lV d , " odeUed ’ exquisite,y neat and 8tron «» aud the workmanship all
Medal. \ew Zealand Exhibition, 18H2.
t,old '• rdii I (Highest Award for Corsets), London
International Exhibition, 1884.
I.atest. Award ! Gold Medal, International
Exhibition, Edinburgh. 1886.
CAUTION. —Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped
Y & ™££F ENT diagonal seam
CORSET, No. 116,” in oval.
CRYSTAL
Sold by all Drapers’ and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Coienla*
Public Companies.
Land Company of Australasia
(LIMITED).
Nominal Capital .. _ ..£1,000,000
Subscribed Capital 500,000
Paid-up Capital ... 104,265
Unpaid Capital 396,734
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 52,000
HEAD OFFICE:
PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES:
60 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, LONDON
371 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Money Received on Deposit at following Rates:
For 12 Months at .. 6J per cent, per annum.
For 6 Months at .. 51 per cent, per annum.
For 3 Months and on Current Accounts, 4 net cent, pat
annum.
The Company has Grazing Areas, Rich Farm T
Orchard and Vineyard Blocks, &c., at Glenormiaton
(Western Victoria), Charlton (North-Western Victoria),
Bushy Park (Qippsland), Segenhoe and Ravenswortta
(near Singleton, N.S.W.).
JAMES G. EDWARDS, j
WILLIAM HARRIS,
G. BAKER WALKER, j
Managing
Director*.
DEPOSITORS. ICO K 1(0 »r. its.
The Intercolonial Investment*
LAND & BUILDING CO., Ltd.,
AND
DEPOSIT BA.KTH:,
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices i OS BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
WM. M'COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P.; THOS. TATE, E«q.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS.
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
Participating
in
Bonus.
7} per cent.
7 per cent.
6 percent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVELY
and RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC,’
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It can bo given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, eithe
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the patient, i
necessary; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or an
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates so quietly and with such certainty that tba
patient undergoes no inconvenience, anil ere he is aware, hia
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BEWA RE of worthless imitations and plagiarisms of
OU r Advertisements. ir< have no Agents.
Mote our Sole Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC COi
14S e 147 OoUlaa BL, MBLBODBNII, Via


Wolfe’s Schnapps—It is strand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps*
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly
Everybodynow-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Give the London and Sydney Tea Co. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.
WHEN THE IJL«r,D is thin or impur*
every org;in and fibre of tbe body becomes en<
feebiert ami less capable of resisting prevailing
diseases. Among the Indications of depraved
blood are hoi’ ~ carbuncles, pimples, eruptions,
sore eyes, ulcers, tumors, and glandular swell-
ings. To strike at the root of these evils,
cleanse the blood with Ayer's Sarsaparilla.
This medicine lias maintained its world-wide
reputation, for nearly half a century, as the
Standa.'u Blood-Piarifier.
It is a highly-concentrated extractor the most
powerful vegetable alteratives and tonics. The
most effective remedy for scrofula, it is equally
beneficial in gout, rheumatism, catarrh, and
dyspepsia, also in liver and kidney com-
plaints. A medicine for men, women,
and children. Be sure and ask for
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Dt. J, C, AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Mr. Robert Howe, of Sydney, last week
got three months’ hard for brutally thrashing a
horse when it was down. Which reminds us that
many years ago a sporting Melbourne doctor saw
a big powerful man ferociously kicking and
flogging an overloaded horse. The doctor jumped
out of his buggy, and seizing the horse-torturer
unmercifully thrashed him, first with his fists and
afterwards with the whip which had been used on
the horse. Prevention is better than cure. If,
when next an animal is brutally used in public,
someone equal to the contract instantly under-
takes to transfer the thrashing from the horse to
the alleged man, there will be far less need for the
interference of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daums & Co., King-st. Arcade
ft .
UHl* is a. solid handsome cake of
scouring soap which has noequa
for all cleaning purposes except in
the laundry-To use it is to value it-
What will SAPOLIO do? Why it will clean paint, make oil-cloths
bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new appearance. It will
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour
the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly. The
wash-badn, the bath-tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pin if you use SAP OLIO. One cake will prove all we say. Be a
clever housekeeper and try it.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT ONE SAPOLIO,
ENOCH MORGAN'S GONS CO., NEW YORK.
&OLD BY GEOCEES, CHEMIbTS, AND lEONMONGEES.
A literary treat for Australians abroad, and for absent friends
of Australian readers of The Bulletin :
A Golden Shanty,
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and Verse,
— by —
“ Bulletin” W rlters.
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
w ZEALAND, Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
calling 1 at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the Cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmaster-General of New
Zealand, the steamers of this line are appointed to leave
Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu and San Francisco
EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified Surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with electric light, and with
a refrigerating chamber for ship's provisions, ensuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations, and have at San Francisco choice
of the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other Companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
or San Francisco, and 2501 b. “ overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL,
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
Time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing all
other information app y at the Company’s Offices 15
Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGEKIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers.
Commander.
POLYNESIEN P. PelLgrin .
YARRA ..IL. Boulard .
Lerve Sydney Leave Mel-
j at 11 a.m. jbournelp.m
.February 27|Maroh S
. iMarch 25 March 2S
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates :
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the'
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plrce.
A. COb Hi, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
LU KS’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Scdlmayr’s Bavarian “Span'll.” “Export”
and “Tal'el” Lager—SPECIALITY.
Jg" AT OO MB A FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters o be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Eaves and
other places of interest.
Medical.
D. r A PATERSON!
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.K.C.S., Ed.; M.R.0.5., Eno.,
157
ELIZABETH STREET,
Sydney.
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged’ for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIG,
|\j ERVOUS,,
AND-
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as 088
included in my speciality.
All Mon Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpj-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, storility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no tune xn
consulting him, since he has, by long expeneno
and thorough investigation of their nature, d'S-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persona residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption
their business, by giving a full and clear dcscriP
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary roea -
cines will be forwarded to them. On r ewipt
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the MAL"
Generative Function in Health and Disease,
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
IR7 Elizabeth St.. Hyde Park. Sydnef.
An instance of what Mr. Parnell thought
of the men he made M.’sP. One of his ablest
lieutenants made in the Commons what he thought
a wonderfully good speech. Approaching Mr.
Parnell in the lobby he said, “ Parnell, what did
▼ou think of my speech?” The “Uncrowned”
looked on him sternly and said, “ Mr . Parnell, if
you please,” and then, turning his back on him in
the most contemptuous manner, added, 1 ‘ and I
didn’t think much of yoiy speech. ”
This paragraph is intended to excite
rumination and a spirit of enquiry within all
redeemed persons who profess to be constantly on
the alert for the Second Coming of the Lord, and
are aching with a suppressed desire to shout
Hosannah! and make a great religious demon-
stration on the occasion. The attention of simple
piety and earnest faith is directed to the cir-
cumstance that a refined and earnest-looking
nuto, described on the charge sheet as Jesus
Christ, has been charged with insulting
behaviour in Melbourne, and remanded for a
week. Also, let it be distinctly understood
that the Bench had no evidence before
them to show that the prisoner wasn’t the
being he professed to be, and the fact that he
had merely been acting up to his alleged per-
sonality was the only thing urged against
him. Unless the man can be proved to have
adopted a celestial alias, then Christianity is con-
fronted with the serious possibility of its founder
having been put away in a dungeon for seven
days. The only witness for the prosecution was,
naturally enough, a clergyman, who stated that
the spiritual-looking man in the dock had
walked up to the altar of a Fitzroy church, at
Sacrament time, and said : “ I am Jesus Christ.
Stop this service, I command you.” Consequently
he (the parson) concluded that the stranger was
mad. and the supposititious Son of God was cast
forth by the verger and chief elders of the taber-
nacle. Assuming that the prisoner, who certainly
presented a much more spiritual appearance than
his accuser, turns out to be Jones, or Brown, the
religious world can still go on professing a child-
like belief in Bible prophecy, and a bitter con-
tempt for the Pharisees of old. Likewise can the
venerable lawgivers of Fitzroy continue to snort
at the name of Pontius Pilate and wonder how
Roman Emperors could allow such persons to sit
on the Bench. But a pennyweight of proof is
worth a ton of protestation, and even as it is cer-
tain that Christ, revisiting earth, would forbid the
administration of the Sacrament to a fashionable
Melbourne congregation, so it is certain that he
would be immediately taken into custody and re-
manded for a week : —
In the serenely-sinful days of old,
Christ spoke with Jewish doctors, we are told ;
But now on earth were He once more enticed,
Our Christian doctors would not speak to Christ.
The Lovers’ Litany.
Eyes of gray—a sodden quay,
Driving rain and falling tears,
As the steamer wears to sea
In a parting storm of cheers.
Sing, for faith and hope are high—
None so true as you and I
Sing the Lovers’ Litany :
“ Love like ours can never die ! ”
Eyes of black —a throbbing keel,
Milky foam to left and right;
Whispered converse near the wheel
In the brilliant tropic night.
Cross that rules the Southern sky !
Stars that sweep and wheel and fiy,
Hear the Lovers’ Litany :
“ Love like ours can never die !”
Eyes of brown —a dusty plain
Split and parched with heat of June,
Flying hoof and tightened rein,
Hearts that beat the old, old tune.
Side by side the horses fly,
Frame we now the old reply
Of the Lovers’ Litany ;
“ Love like ours can never die !”
Eyes of blue—the Simla Hills
Silvered with the moonlight hoar;
Pleading of the waltz that thrills,
Dies and echoes round Benmore.
“ Mabel,” “Officers,” “Good by,”
Glamour, wine, and witchery—
On my soul’s sincerity,
“ Love like ours can never die !”
Maidens, of your charity,
Pity my most luckless state.
Four times Cupid’s debtor I
Bankrupt in quadruplicate.
Yet, despite this evil case,
An a maiden showed me grace,
Four-and-forty times would I
Sing the Lovers’ Litany :
“ Love like ours can never die !”
RUDYARD KIPLING in CORNHILL.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“I would put my money on Parnell,”
said Lord Salisbury, and his followers are taking
the tip.
There is a fine Donnybrook row in the
House of Commons’ lobbies now concerning the
Irish room. The majority claim it.
The virtuous Mr. Stead must have known
all about the Parnell-O’Shea liaison, at which he
now affects to be horrified, years ago. If not,
why did he print in the Pall Mall paragraphs
which, if they did not insinuate such a liaison, were
absolutely meaningless ?
R. J. Walker, ground-manager of the
Otway Proprietary Company's platinum mine at
Colac (Y.), has issued a writ for £25,000 damages
for alleged slander and libel in a report to the
Government on the mine by Mr. Cosmo New-
bery. It is on the cards that similar action will
be taken by the late manager of a well-known
mineinN.S. Wales against a London “expert,”
portions of whose report on the mine in question
are decidedly peculiar.
American vehicles of every description
seem more suitable to Australian roads and
climate than the lumbering machines im-
ported from Europe. From our inspection of the
premises of Messrs. F. B. Wheeler and Co., of
265 Clarence-street, Sydney, we can recommend
their vehicular goods. Farmers’ wagons, for
instance, easily adjusted for one or two horses,
strong, easy-running, and capable of carrying
four passengers comfortably in addition to a
multiplicity of parcels. Then there is a line in
express wagons, neat and strong, specially
adapted for the use of firms that make their own
deli series. As for buggies, here they are to be
had in every size, shape and price, as are phaetons,
cabriolets, buckboards, barouches, four-in-hands,
and every possible means of conveyance. A
vehicle especially suited to the use of country
triends is No. 100 road wagon, a kind of tray
buggy, strong, light, and easy-riding. We were
particularly attracted by the spiral spring cart,
whose springs are constructed on a new principle,
being stteel coils containing 24ft. of the best steel.
They are a marvel of cheapness, finish and
strength.*
There was only one female passenger in
the sleeping-car of the Brisbane express one day
last week, and she had a dress which buttoned up
behind. She was rather a well-developed lady,
and six of the buttons were out of her reach
unless she could get out of herself and walk
round to her back. Evidently she had forgotten
about this, else she would probably have slept
with the garment on. She managed to get one
button in, and might have tackled another, only
something that was fastened round the centre of
her gave way, and her clothes nearly Hew to
pieces. Then she reached over the top. of her
head and got on pretty well till the lower button
burst with the strain and left her just where she
started. Next some other mysterious fixture
blew up with a loud report, and when the guard
wanted to unhitch the sleeping-car and leave it
behind, he found it still occupied by a stout
woman, who had taken refuge in tears and refused
to come out. Also, she declined to state what
was the matter with her, and at last the distracted
official appealed to the station-master, but she
only called him a base wretch, and bade him leave
her. Then they both appealed to a policeman,
but that person, instead of coming himself, wisely
borrowed the girl out of the refreshment-room
and sent her along, and presently peace reigned
once more.
The Prince of Wales’ second daughter is
engaged to be married to a German Prince. Life
being very short his name is immaterial.
Captain Rossi, whose red necktie and
cherished tombstone have made him famous, is
closely related by marriage to Sir William
Manning.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
It has been irreverently suggested, that if
Stead, of the Review op Reviews, should want
an abbreviated telegraphic address, about the
shorteet and the one that would best express the
character of the owner would be, “ God, London.”
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
Old Sidney Cooper, the cattle-painter,
has just published a book of puerile reminiscences
in which he speaks of the wretched condition of
Landseer, after that greater artist had lost his
reason. “The whole place was in dire disorder :
beer and porter bottles, dishes, pipes, cigars, news-
papers strewed about the room. But no Bible —
nothing to calm his mind, or to lead him to think
about death and eternity ! How I desired to
draw his attention to this, and to try if poor
Edwin could not be persuaded to think of his soul
and his God.” The immediate effect of this book
should be to reduce the market price of “Sidney
Coopers,” and teach the world how little genius
is required to produce faithful pictures of the
cow, generally m a sitting posture. What sort of
imagination can belong to the man who snivels
because a lunatic can’t be persuaded to think
about his soul ? Somebody ought to shut Cooper
up, for one night only, with six religious maniacs,
so as to give him an idea of the soothing influence
of the Bible upon minds diseased.
Out of the 416 bodies which paused a while
at Melbourne morgue last year on the road to the
murky sepulchre, it is reported that 166 were
actuated by drink. The rest arrived through
various causes. Some of them were crushed and
overwhelmed by a mother-in-law ; some of them
came because marriage was a failure and were
shoved into the land of ghouls by their wives, and
some were shoved by other people’s wives. A
good many had died through land-booming, and a
good many more had plunged the boss’s money on
the wrong horse and hadn’t sufficient strength of
mind to burn down the office and thus cover the
shortage. One or two had lived in boardinghouses
till their reason collapsed beneath the awful mono-
tony of leg of mutton and cold mutton and mutton
chops and shoulder of mutton and stew, and the
rest were there merely because Death had whis-
pered a hash-laden whisper in their capacious ear
telling them it was time to go.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
To cure skin diseases. — Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skin. Sold every-
where.


Medical.
£
EUREKA
Vi
ELECTRIC BELI
y
»Ni
: v-
■*N<n
m
/y n\
A NEVER. FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Onwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents' are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Bolt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
Forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fat
postage. »
Address,:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., fsvusKY.
VIGOR
FOR MEN.
Loss of Nerve Force-
Debility arid Decay.
m«y be perfectly regained by the OAV
3ST DISK
6d.,
TBEATMS3STT, ' One Bos, 12s.
full Course, £l. Treatise sent sealed, 4 Stamps.
Addjeas-Tho nAVK"'' V 3T T T \EORATORY.
D 6 EUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE. VIC
DEBILITATED
WEAK AND
NERVOUS
AX °LD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Sk : ii
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE. Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
||ARICOOELS-
Its causes, svmptoms. and patho-
—; - 1 !• cy- r - get her with a descr ptlon
of a NEW and SUCC'SSFUL METHoD of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. lost free, two
»t«in| .
ssor? CARL ST INC WAV,
21 E LIZ ABEX'H ST, MELBOURNE, VIC
(t
to th<
Dogs!”
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELE CTKICIT Y.
PROF333OF?
MINIATURE
ALLEN’S
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by-
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the .ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century.
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves'Brain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Batten will cure the following ailments: —
Headache, liiu- anatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Bronchitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
hill particulars and directions for use,
Price FIVE SHILLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemists
gnd Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 264
Elizabeth. St„ Melbourne.
Hotel.
PPAHLERT’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N S.W,
Opposite the Park, IVynjrard Square.
(Under New Management.)
IDHIS for 26 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
w under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden,
n wel l- v ’entilated Billiard Room adjoining Reoreation
Ground (three Alcock’s best Tables), under the manoge-
-01 n o . .. A - nuokin !fham, late of Empire Hotel. Wine*
ana Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Fineot
and Coolest Bar in Town.
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
I*~ JiHilll I’OBTEK,
Telephone No. 150.
French
German
Italian
Spotm%.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
CHAS. HECHX ... W......
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
ZM4
&
‘•V.
Up
*
patent
PILLS
3*
sR
■■>■■
Are universally admitted
to be worth' a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
box of these
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording'to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like ,l MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest,'U'heezing, &c., those Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered, to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time he removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the ]_
prietor,Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in bqxes at Is. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold 1
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
V
w
&lvanic Cha\n_§S?
a
5--
RS
g
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, ana
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most, Scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Inver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhiva, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory,
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied,ls acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our conflcl.nce in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, fuss,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Th*
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
!EiF" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Knurr.
Business Manager . . A. W. Codrtiii.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.O. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost hi
the only cost.
CONSULT PROFESSOR SELBY,
376 Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure ir all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. Il
contains Ad vie* on Mauri AG*, worth its weight
in gold.
Business Announcements.
T 11HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
JL Sydney Branches ;
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £825,000
Uncalled Capital 75,000
Reserve Liability 1,600,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States o£ America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
83*“ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes o grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
\23
(p
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
g
<v
9>
c
PRIVATE
ROOMS
22 % 2 4\
/royal arcadK
MELBOURNE
SMOKE
PURITY
CIGARETTES
MANUFACTURING
HATTERS
6EQJ*GE STREET
EY
S
IMPQKTERS'OF'AILTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
r
c
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
■W
§1
auch
INC
*v
PO
K
JZStZ&eSS:
*jLam
.MANUFACTURED rv <6- /-’
JjM£S CXM/VOfr 'tytxrbou-rS*
tScld [rx/ O.ZI S'laet'Xni ■? SA're*ft firry
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADK
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wear 3 Twice as Long
as anj other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
<3.0 sx Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Stipplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
SIT
WHISKY
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
M.W.tCS
Sole Agent JAMES MOIR & CO., 58 Margaret-st., Sydney
WILLIAM CAEGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MABKET STEEET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
Medical.
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing apd Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
|jO. e.Wgelmann)
OF
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
WTELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
Who Tlas Cured
More Cases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
tST ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can he treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a descrintion of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN CERTIFICATE. —One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, 1888.
To H. F. Kuoelmann, Esq.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that 1, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. I consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but I became worse every day, wasting awav until
1 became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very’ much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill I consulted yon, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. I agreed
and went under your treatment in "March last. At the
•nd of three months I was taken bod one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Pktek Smttiie, J.P.
Dr. westcott’s a menorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. !>d. and Is. Cd.,
by poet 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
Notice.— w. bushell is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.


SOILi L & CO-
AUCTIONEERS and GENERAL AGENTS,
CORNER
Queen’s treet and Flinders Lane,
BRANCH OFFICES:
32 Chapel Street, Prahran;
2 Albert Street, Windsor.
MELBOURNE.
Gr. H. SMITH & SON,
MANUFACTURERS St IMPORTERS OP
HTIf JS jSID
302 George Street, Sydney,
8 Doors South ol Hunter Street
JPI
Sole Agents foi—
HENRY HEATH,
Oxford Street, London.
DOWS
IvEMfißjjCAJlOf}
if %»“> ,
''EVERYWHERE'!
w
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Harvey’s
Pate' t Electric Head Battcrv. Self-applied and pain-
less. Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet free • « Collin-; ect East. Melbourne.
BOLLINGER'S CHAMPAGNE.
ZDZRAT —EXTBA QUALITY.
SOLE AGENTS fob NEW SOUTH WALES-
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SORIN’S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognao Grape,
IS TZHZIB BEST^
Otto Sander & Go., 33G BZent-at., SydLney,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
igf
%
m
m
J.
1
YORK S T -WYNYARD-SQUARE •
„ r»'SYDNEY««r ,
Complete house. fLirnisHers
V- « *l* SEND FOR CATALOGUE •
H. R. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
/** B. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
wX • and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers;—J. Purdey & Sons, Ch. Boswell, John Kioby
and Co., Joseph Lang & Sons, Ch. Osborne & Co., Thomas
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various othermakers always on hand, viz., W. W. Greener,
Scott, Webley, Hollis & Sons, Riley and Casiimorb. All
goods will be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George*
Street, Sydney. Price list on application.
Facial
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
Address: —HERR H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
■XTOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
1n( cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
* be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD !t CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Huntington Hill
Knowles rnm
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
<SiCCZS
187 & 189 Clarence Street
SYDNEY, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kock Breakers,
wefttliighoiifte Kn{in6it
• «
HIGHLY NUTRMJVE
Coeoa
MAY Bt UHIAINM) tN I AHtIIHJ HNS UH PAUKUS IHHUUWHUU]'THE COLONY
DRIKKi
/////. /j
//■ui"
s
UNA
JUL
HAM
RAN
AM PA
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
43:t Rmirkii Street, SaliHlmrjr Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
K
T‘)VV READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price, la. All Agents and Booksellers.
J. E. Salier & Co.
IMPOUTKKB OF
€%antlclieits fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
FLETCHER'S GAS COOKING STOVTKB
• Of Various i'uUurus.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
