

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST
AITKEN’S ALETHCKENS~WHFSKY
THE
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
best 11ST THE MARK
ET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PBIMIPAI OAKS SN MONEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st v Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales,
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
DF*<or Apartments, Address, “ Manager.”
MALTED COCOA
KB*
m
’ XADItS;
'HILDBEf 4 !
TB UNKE*C4C/
BROWNS
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR—
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
A warded highest honors at
Phila., 187 C Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
B exhibited.
Paris medal on every battle.
Beware of lmil»tion«.
This blacking is in liquid form and is applied to slices
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. ' It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN U CO..
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
iirr
r.' r ;
j£
o*
o X££g
fta
6
•■•r
HIM
snßnsttSJßiififfln
laawu minimum
Tlxe Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE Proprietor.
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
0. DESNEUX ... PROPRIETOR.
TABLE D’HOTE PAEISIENNE, 2s. Gd.
(WIXE IXCU'DEII).
iMM V ATI] 110031 S, 4s,
): ( —
Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Pinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BAXQI.KT ROOMS rou PARTIES it to FIFTY.
Service a la carts Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN OET SUNDAYS.
Dinners froni Sg'.Gd. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes’ Notice.
J. & C. HOWARD.
POINTS OP SUPERIORITY.
-Steel dAg bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
-Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
-All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
-Knife can bo drawn by removal of one colter.
-Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
>
< as
Prizes Won, 1390 |
p
{ Prizes Won, 1890
HOWARD STEED ORIENT MOWER.
ho'w.a.s.id’s oniEnsra: zbtvicieb.
ttowarti’g Anglo American flakes.
2801 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
THE MUT
II Imtt Cnpay if lew W
RICHARD A. McOURDY, Pk^uwt.
Assets: <£30,657,283 11s. Bd.
MUTUAL LIFE CONSOLS.
The Consol Policy recently aunouilccd by The Mutual Life Insurance Company of
Now \ ork combines more advantages with fewer rosh’ictioim -than any Investment' ln
surance contract ever ottered. It consolidates
Insurance, Endowment, Investment, Annual Income.
No other Company otters this policy. Apply only to Company's nearest Agency f t , r
Z. 0. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
131 3Er* it; t S 3 "fc ic* o cs "t, £3 y ail xx g y.
VICTORIAN BRANCH,
146 Collins-street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH
131 Pitt-street; Sydney.
{ l l l‘ KXS LAX D (! I! AN GJ r.
223 Queen-street, Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11 —No. 585. j
[Saturday, May 2, 1891.


TOBACCO
It
ill
u
DIXSOPSONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,592 ibs
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 Ibs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
sale of any in Australia are
p
'it.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS and INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piessb,
M.R.0.5., F.C.S., &c. War. Johnstone
Pu.D., F. 0.5., Ac., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL, FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Has uecn Known for 100 years as Uie cent preserver
and bcautilier of the hair: it prevents it falling offer
turning grey, strengthens weak hair, and eradicates
scurf and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a brillianline
for the heard and moustaches, to which it Imparts a
Hoft and silky appearance : it is also sold in a golden
colour for fair-haired children.
Kalydor
a soothing and emollient mills for the (ace, and Is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates; it removes freckles,
tan sunburn, roughn“Bs and redness ol the skin,
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &0., and produces soft
fair ski'n, and a lovely delicate complexion.
ROWLAND’S ESSENCE Cr TYRE, a harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown or
black, i Ask chemists’ ami druggists for Rowland's
articles.
ON
The extraordinary reputation of Rowland’s Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to,
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the principle on which each is prepared « confined
solely to the knowledge pf A. Rowland & Sons, of 20.
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to buy no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, and which bear their
name in red ink on the wrappers.
or the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVELY
ami RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
«GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It can be given in a cup of coffee or tea, or in food, either
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the patient, if
necessary; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or an
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. ■ THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates ho quietly and with such certainty that the
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware, his
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BEWARE of icorthless imitations and plagiarism* of
our Advertisements. We have no Agents .
Note our Sole Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 & 147 Collins St., MELBOURNE, Vio.
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia,
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Plow of the Secretions
and Fortifier the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Cold Medals.
Superior to all Others!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c,, accompanying each Bottle.)
—TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
p
p
Purchase:
Ask for Lea &
Wholesale ami for E.
i’s should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Peukins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
rport by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., $c,J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
CiPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin, i
V*' Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advan>-e). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, hag been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treat ise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY’
Have always jn stock for sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only,
tk e
R OVA l>
EDINBURGH
CASTLC
SpJCUM.nfSEB
* * *
SCgfCHWHISKy
efiacctsSj'oai
&&Piopil4ictA
Ironmongery* and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Cement, Class, China ami
EARTHENWARE.
wines, beers a spirits,
AND GENERATj
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents'for
lfiT‘ J. T. GAYEN’S, ISA
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales.
Slachcns
“ PELICAN ” STOUT.
i‘ The Royal Edinbugh Castle” old Scotch V/hiskies.
“ A Golden Blianty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Use none but At kinson’s,
the original and only true Essence.
ATKINSON S
OPOPANAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION, I— only genu
shape blue and yellow
\Tnrk—fl ‘‘ \VI
ITIQN I —Only genuine with shield-
ape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a“ White Rose
"and address in full.
JJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—EV—
Consulting 11. J. POULTON Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Consult personally on ly letter.
® fc,Q n: y "
Offices
p
p
CC _A. G-OHjIDEXT SHANTY:”
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By Writers. \
Bize, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
of
3XT a/fcxi.x'e.
p p
ook of KTatvire.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery.' No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy enabling any one to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System’, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6- The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post i]-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, fee., price 1/6.
•i Every Man his own Schoolmast .r, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” 6d.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, fr> m infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
For Mosquito Bites
«y E £ * tbact
9sr
p
For Bad Eyes Use
OurEucalypteVictory
OINTMENT
For Consumption use
a- Sons
p
p
ill 5
/
f/
the only pure eucalypte
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
It is the only known cure for Asthma, Consume
tion, Bronchiiis, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
fcy its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Coi.k mane and
Boks .Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
ROSES
m
MUM
mm
9:
0
G
naaiwai
m
0&
LOTI
8
STP
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
lt , and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
noial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
Wwk compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE!.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Pott St. 6d.
Kg'" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
LADIES’
p
THE
Brunswick Land ,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
JOSEPH ROGERS, AUCTIONEER,
PROPRIETOR.
I
f*;* S B'-tistS- Sydney.
k
TO
INVESTORS
—AND —
SPECULATORS.
I have on hand some
of the best
Station*
Mining*
Farm*
AND
Building Properties
in Western Australia.
* # * Send for Plans
and Particulars, which
•will be forwarded with-
out delay.
Yours faithfully,
Joseph Rogers ,
Extract from West Australian Newspaper :
“ The Brunswick Land Mart is by far the most commodious and best appointed
place of its kind in the colony. ”
£3° Before investing in W.A. in Land or Mining Properties consult the above.
Gr. H. SMITH & SOKT
302 George Street, SYDNEY.
HAT MANUFACTURERS.
Sole Agent for XX, Heath & Sons, liondon.
£lOO,OOO CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO
HEAD OFFICE:
MERCANTILE MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
118 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
-Scr.
<s
Co
This Company is
prepared to receive proposals for
all classes of Accident Insurance; also
under the Employer’s Liability Act, Public
Risk, Workmen's Insurance and Common Law.—
11. GRAYSON CROSSLY, Ge. eral Manager.
Vr at Aria n Branch: 323 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
“A GOLDEKT SHANTY”
A literal-v treat for Australians abroad, and for absent friends
of Australian readers of The Bulletin.
IlgiEimm
isrow oieiEiisr i
Queen’s Birthday Cup, Handwick, 25th May, 1891.
20,000 ZW at 5 each *W 20,000
p
p
3rd No. after 2nd 100
3rd No. before 3rd ... 80
3rd No. after 3rd 60
Total amount .. 5000
All Accounts PAID day after. Less 10 per cent.
N.B. —On my laet I paid 600 more for 5 than others did for 10.
Audkiws : -A.. Bruoe, Cam ok “THE UNITED AID BANK,”
115 St 117 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
Medical.
Dr. R.ICXXiV£U3S.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING ani
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future bo pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
tr- — a y
e=s
nr-r-t
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches. Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
ouzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncon reliable temper,, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
ma a tered these difficulties. On receipt of fid. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
YOU S DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STRWKT, SYDNEY,
lie aure to mention this paper \vhon writing
CON SULT AT lON FffcßßL


T. ROBIIVSOIV <Sc 00..
Limited,
p
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. R. AND Co.’s Improved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Sind
T. R. and Co.’s DAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. R. AND Co.’s New DRAIN DORMERS.
T. R. and Co.’s “ Solway” Patent TUMBLE-OYER BOX WOO’
PRESS —the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. AND Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESS t J
T. R. AND Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description, g
T. R. and Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder
A.MRBSS: 407 Sz 409 EllzatoetU Street, MBLBOURKTEI.
F.
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SyRJNEY
Write for our New Illustrated Sports and Game Catalogue.
NnfcaA m Hwini? the Best and Cheapest House in Australia for all Sporting Materials. We respectfully direct attention to the fact that we can supply all the necessary requisites for GYMNASTIC
and CAUBTHENIC EXERCISES. JfiVERY SATISFACTION GIVEN. Communications receive prompt and careful attention. Our new and fully-illustrated Sp-i+s and Games Catalogue
ia unique and truly interesting.
Sent FREE BY POSi’.
THE CHAMPION GAME OF GAMES.
Zjawii Tennis Sets.
p
HICKORY HORIZONTAL BARS.—6ft. long, Ijin., l|in., l|in., Igin., and 2in. thick. Price, IPs. 6d. each.
m
91
au
No. 1 Set comprises four Racquets, one dozen Balls, Net 42 x 3£ft.,
superior Poles, Lines, Runners, Pegs, Mallet, and Book of Rules. In box
complete, £3 17s. Gd.
No. 2 comprises four best Racquets, one dozen Tournament Balls, one
best Net 42 x 3Jft., two superior Lancewood Poles, Lines, Runners, Pegs,
Mallet, and Book of Rules. In box complete, £4 15s.
No. 3 Set comprises four best Racquets, two dozen Tournament Balls,
one best Machine Tarred Net, two polished superior Lancewood Poles, Lines,
Runners, Pegs, polished Mahogany Press, Measuring Tape, Mallet, and
Book of Rules. In box complete, £6 10s.
Write for Illustrated Lawn Tennis Catalogue. Free on Application.
SINGLE RACQUET
PRESSES,
2/6 each.
MAHOGANY FOR FOUR,
12/6 each.
BOOK OF LAWN TENNIS
RULES, 1/3.
ALL REPAIRS
Executed on the Premises.
Racquets Restrung.
Ditto Repaired.
ALL ORDERS
receive
Careful and Prompt
Attention.
THE
CANTON TENNIS
COURT MARKER,
Price, 32/6.
Money.
nEKwriLc
Loan pf Guarantee
Co., Limited.
nnKCfINTLLCT“
Incorporated under Companies’ Act 1874.
CAPITA!, - £500,000 In 100,000 Shares of £5 each.
HEAD OFFICE: YORIT & MARKET STREETS,
Branches ;
SYOKTEY.
LONDON —110 CANNON STREET, E.C.
MELBOURNE-283 COLLINS STREET EAST.
BRISBANB-EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
NEWCASTLE-37 HUNTER STREET.
S- §owe, (Esq., ( M.g. - <§hairman.
London Board of Advice :
LORD ULICK H. BROWNE.
HON. J. F. VESEY FITZGERALD.
JOHN HOWARD, Esq.
The Company is prepared to advance money on all classes of approved securities
for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS;
Twelve Months -- S per cent.
Six 7
Three .. .. • • »
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
The DIVIDEND declared for the year ending 30th June is NOW PAYABLE.
TO INVESTORS.
A limited number of SHARES are now OFFERED for distribution in the colonies,
payable ss. per share on application, ss. per share on allotment, and the balance as
required by calls not exceeding 2s. per share, at intervals of not less than three months.
The whole of the capital derived from calls goes to the Company’s credit.
Forms of application, balance sheets and other information can be obtained from the
Head Office of the Company, or at any of the Branches.
A. MILLER, General Manager.
A Golden Shanty
p
pp
p
QUOITS.— BEST QUALITY STEEL,
41b. to 71b. pair.
12s. 6d. to 265. Set of Four.
p
LAWN BOWLS
Taylor's Celebrated Ivory Studded.
Prices:
From 17s. 6d. to 555. per pair.
p
Dumb Bells,— 1/- to 5/6 pair.
BEST
POLISHED
SKITTLES.
pp
BEST POLISHED SKITTLES.
Tin. x 15in. Price, 60s. per set of Nine.
LIGNUM VITiE CHEESES.
61b. 101 b. 111 b. 121 b. 141 b.
Price 13s. 6d. 18s. 9d. 21s. 225. 6d. 265. 6d. each.
FREEHOLD INVESTMENT and DEPOSIT BANE,
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Australian Star Office).
Fixed Deposits received in any sum, and interest payable quarterly, as under, viz.:—
12 months 9 per cent.
9 months 8J per cent.
6 months 8 per cent.
3 months 6 per cent.
Depositors for 2 and 3 years receive 10 per cent., and in addition a bonus of 1 per cent, per annum. Remittances
receivable by cheque and deposit receipt forwarded. Promissory Notes Discounted on deposit deeds without
delay. Prompt Advances made on Land and Freehold Property, in town or country. All correspondence
immediately replied to. EDWD. A. MORGAN, Secretary.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bbll Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & MbduvalMbtai, Woskss
ROLLER SKATES (any make) with RKASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of every description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Cleaver^
Thimparent
Soap
Best and Cheapest
In the Market.


The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 585.
SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1891.
Price, Gd.
KJIKDSOFF
OUR.
ÜBWies
W
■MSI
o^^
p
\ H ' P
W/w,
p
ON THE ROAD TO FEDERATION.
PAEKES IN A TIGHT PLACE.
H. P.: “One destiny, if you like; hut one at a time, please!”


The Bulletin
The Rational Australian newspaper.
11 Australia for the Australians.
■’ROPRIETORS : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO,,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 21 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 ° 0
Half-yearly “
Quarterly
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Dimness Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom U'e do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MAY 2, 1891.
The Governor-General.
The travail of the late Federal Convention
will not have been in vain if it enables
Australians to see who among the delegates
are the true Democrats, and who spurious.
The voting regarding the appointment of a
Governor-General was, in the truest sense,
one-sided, if only from the fact that all but
one sat on the same side and met Sir George
Grey’s amendment with a stolid non pos-
sumus. What, then, was Grey’s proposal
that it obtained such a short shrift, even
from some who might have been expected to
support it ? Merely that Australians should
not be shut out from the highest office in
their own commonwealth —that the mis-
fortune of being Australians should be
no bar sinister to their eligibility for the
supreme post in the country’s executive, as
the misfortune of being a Celt or a Papist is
to a man’s fitness to hold a second-hand
court at Dublin Castle. The division on the
question was an object-lesson in comicality.
The sole “yea’’came from a veteran Eng-
lishman who had done much more than all
the other delegates combined to hold the
Empire together, while the most vociferous
“nays” were belched by many who were
born in Australia and knew nothing of the
great world outside except by hearsay.
When the Jews of Samuel’s day clamoured
for a king to “go out before them ” they, at
least, insisted on having one of their own
people crowned. But when the Australians
of to-day solicit, not a monarch but a
monarch’s simulacrum, they demand that he
should be supplied from a little island the
size of Victoria situated at the other side of
the world. Thus the first essential to be-
coming a chief Viceroy in the future will be
to know nothing of the land whose destinies
you are deputed to guide. Perhaps excep-
tion may be made in favour of persons
who, like Mr. Henniker Heaton and
others, take the precaution of return-
ing to England and remaining there
long enough to cleanse themselves from
antipodean sympathies. An antagonism to
Irish local government and a plethoric purse,
by conferring on such persons the right to
wear a coronet, may, at the same time, lift
them into the rank of eligibles for an Aus-
tralian Governor-Generalship. But in the
face of the man residing in Sydney, Mel-
bourne, or Brisbane, who wishes to occupy
the vice-regal palace, the door is to be as
severely slammed as that of the Inferno in
the faces of unfortunates desirous of chang-
ing their lodgings.
# * #
Thus Sir George Grey :
I believe in my own mind it is essential for you that
every one of your officers be selected by the people of
this country. Even in the case of the Governor-Genera!,
I believe the people ought to have the right of choosing
who that man should be. Let them choose from England
if they please, or from any part of the world ; but no
nation can be perfect unless its people ha\ e every office
open to their ambition, unless it be known tint the really
o-i-eat and good men of their country can vise to the very
highest position in the country and exercise the highest
duties in it. . . . And to say that no man in Australia
shall have an advantage of that sort, is an absolute cruelty
to the people of Australia.
From the foregoing excerpts it is obvious
that the illustrious Maorilancl delegate, for
all his knowledge of books and of men, did
not grasp the situation—did not understand
the peculiarities of Australian Democracy,
or, rather, of those who travesty it. Much
as Tom Moohe dearly loved a lord so the
typical Australian democrat is never quite at
his ease unless he has a peer before whom to
prostrate himself. “ Get off your knees,
d you, and rob your churches,” bawled
Mark Twain as the Italian beggars on the
steps of their gorgeous cathedrals whined
for alms. Similarly the man of independent
mind feels prompted to shout to his delegates
whether in Parliament or Convention, “Stand
steady, my good men, and don’t let your
knees knock together at the prospect of see-
ing the highest office in the land occupied
by an Australian Commoner. An untitled
fellow-citizen is good enough for sixty-five
millions of the world’s most advanced people.
He is surely good enough for you.” Of a
truth it might be asserted that if cutting
the painter in the immediate future brought
some anxieties and even dangers in its wake
they would be amply repaid by the lesson in
self-respect and self-reliance such an event
would teach, as well as by the discomfiture
of the parasites who, by their servility, make
the very name of Australia malodorous in
plain men’s nostrils. In the whole of the
Constitution of the United States there is no
more admirable provision, none that has
worked so beneficently—so far as any pro-
vision can work in a society founded on the
false doctrine of Individualism, instead of
on the rock of progressive Socialism —as that
which proclaims: “No titles of nobility
shall be granted by the United States ; and
no person holding any office of profit or
trust under them shall, without the consent
of Congress, accept any title of any kind
whatever from any king, prince, or any
foreign State.” Had the Australian Federal
delegates incorporated the foregoing, word
for word, in their draft, merely substituting
the Commonwealth for the States ; and had
they completed the paragraph by the ad-
dendum : “To the Australian people alone
belongs the right of electing the Common-
wealth’s Governor-General or President,”
popular apathy or suspicion would quickly
give way to satisfaction. But with one
honourable exception the delegates could not
rise to the occasion. The patriotic lymph
that would destroy the deep-seated tubercles
of political and social sycophancy has yet to
be discovered. So it comes that, should the
Convention result in action, a country
almost as large as Europe may have to
accept for its local fountain of honour a
titled British card-sharper, possibly nomi-
nated by an elderly British roue.
Some astute person may suggest that though
the Crown hold the nomination and Aus-
tralians are virtually excluded, that need not
necessarily result in the sending of a peer to
preside. An able and elderly commoner
might be chosen. Such might have been
the case once. Indeed, the time is not
so long gone by since a naval captain,
fresh from the quarter-deck, would have
been received with acclaim, while a
major-general on the retired list, whose
commands never extended beyond the
parade-ground and the halberds, would
have evoked enthusiasm. That time, how-
ever, has slipped away, and to the bluff
martinet of the past has succeeded the
affluent alleged noble of the present. The
very proposal in these times to supply
Sydney or Melbourne with a Governor
without a place in the peerage, would be
received with a chorus of anger and in-
credulity by the bourgeoisie of two provinces.
Conservative journals, whose proprietors
would pawn the soiled linen of their souls
for a bow from a baron, and radical organs
of boisterous iconoclasm, would quickly find
themselves joining the hue-and-cry of re-
tired food and drink adulterators against the
British administration that presumed to send
an untitled Jones when the services of a
titled Smith were at its disposal. It might bo
that Jones was a statesman, and irreproach-
able. How insignificant in the balance were
such commonplace attributes when a coronet
was in the other scale ! The English Glad-
stone or the American Lincoln with nothing
but services to recommend him, would,
to-day, be passed contemptuously over by
Australian “society” in favour of one
whose father secured a place in Debrett by
means of a successful brewery, or a pushing
wife. Little wonder that Australian as-
pirations, as illustrated by the servility of
one section of her society, and the supine-
ness of another, should have become a by-
word-little wonder that the old taunt con-
cerning the weakness of Democrats for
decorations should find among us some
semblance of justification.
It would be uncharitable, however, to lay
too much emphasis on the fact that,* by
declaring themselves unfit to fill the post of
Governor-General, the colonists, through
their delegates have smudged their country’s
amour propre. They are but following the
example of their British kinsmen, who, for
over two hundred years, have elected to be
ruled by foreigners. Considering the tinus
and the conduct of the gloomy bigot
James, one almost forgives the Britons
of the 17th century’s closing decade for
making a clean sweep of the last Inal's
Stuart. At the same time the double-deal-
ing of the English Church on the occasion is
never likely to be forgotten. So long as the
bishops, those insolent followers of the
Socialist of Nazareth, were suffered to wring
their swollen incomes from half-starved
rustics, James might scourge and boot
British Nonconformists and Scottish
Covenantors to his heart’s content. It was
when His Majesty threatened to lay a heavy
hand on their lordships’ temporalities that
they discovered resistance to be lawful. But
what excuse can be made for inviting the
frowsy Georoes and the grotesque William
to rule a land that flaunted 'its squalid free-
dom in the world’s eyes 1—
George the First was reckoned vile—viler George the
Second,
And what mortal ever heard any good of George the
Third ?
When from earth the Fourth descended.
Heaven be praised, the Georoes ended.
Yet, for over six-score years these five
clowns—including “ Silly Billy ’’ with his
head like a pine-apple—their mistresses and
their brats had but to beckon in order to see
what was called the best society in the land
at their feet. To them appertained the
power of turning ribald priests into spiritual
lords—of conferring favours on many who in
these days would be felons. Small wonder
that the hankering after tinsel distinctions
should still find a place in the hearts of
Britons at home and abroad. It is doubtful
if any other nation in the world has stood
four generations of such monarchical.inepti-
tude. The colonists —we are assuming for
the sake of argument that the people
and the Convention are one in senti-
ment —are, therefore, not to be blamed
too harshly for their inability to emanci-
pate themselves at once from the tags and
tatters of the past. This refusal to elect
a Governor-General from among themselves
is but a survival in an abortive form of the
feeling that placed the Georges on the throne
and kept them there. Time alone will
remedy it. To the man of broad views like
Sir George Grey it is no doubt incompre-
hensible how men of ability far from mean
not only cling to the customs of by-gone
times, but, by a sort of mental tox-tuousness,
select some of the least defensible customs
to stand by. This surprise on Sir George’s
part will be all the greater when he reflects
that some of those who opposed his motion
were native Australians who thus by their
votes sat on the wrong end of the branch
while sawing it.
# # #
In this, as well as in many other respects,
the Americans had. a great advantage over
us Australians. Their blossoming into inde-
pendence was rapid, violent perhaps, but
salutary. At one wrench the whole was
done—King, Lords, Commons, titles, de-
corations, outside influence, and a dozen
other excrescences went overboard in one
splash. With us they are escaping furtively
through the scuppers while the State ship s
captain and officers swagger aimlessly on
deck protesting to the passengers that the
vessel is just as she left port, that nothing
has been jettisoned, and that she will return
to the British harbour exactly as when she
departed. She will never return. The
skipper and crew may swear to the contrary,
but the passengers now know almost as
much of navigation as the officers, and
will resent any attempt to “ ’bout
ship.” One thing alone the Austra
lian craft requires - an opportunity to
buffet the waves by herself for a time.
There is no fear of her going under, she is
too taut and staunch for that. Her officers
have certainly insisted on carrying a strange
captain, but that is because they themselves
have never had the sifpreme command of a
vessel, and dread the responsibilty. By and
by when they get more confidence, or the
passengers insist on sailing in a certain
direction, the commander will be requested
to step into the gig for removal to one of
his country's harbours in the vicinity. It
will not be necessary to throw him overboard
as a predecessor of his was thrown by a
kindred crew 115 years ago.
A few remarks remain to be made on
independent lands, and dependencies. Also
on the London Times, the Marquis of Lokne,
the Princess Louise, and Mr. Joseph,
P. Abbott, Speaker of the New South Wales
Assembly. To begin with the latter. At a
Convention meeting, he is reported to have
expressed his dissatisfaction with the
spread of the Republican sentiment in
New South Wales, and trusted some-
thing would be dune to stem it. From
an Australian-born person, who never
saw a monarch except an aboriginal one, the
foregoing is a cameo. On some politicians
the word “Republic” appears to have the
same effect as upon a British duke whose
coronet was manufactured in a trollop's
chamber. The fact is, nations which are not
independent ; which have no say in matters
of peace or war vitally affecting themselves ;
no diplomatic relations with foreign coun-
tries ; no authority to pass a divorce-law
suited to their circumstances without (he
consent of dainty adulterers thousands of
miles across the sea ; no power to annex a
rock a few leagues from their coasts, and no
competency to have the last word in an
important law-suit, may be prosperous and
even possessed of a certain smug c intent,
but no robust or virile public opinion can
secure a footing within their borders.
Without National Independence there will
always be timid men to lament the advance
of Republicanism and the decay of hereditary
misrule. It was good of the Times to rejoice
at the 1 of Sir G eoroe Grey’s motion.
It will console the majority of the delegates
to know they have on their side the journal
that screamed for war to permit the un-
•peakable Turk to work off the balance of
the Bulgarians, and that raked the kennels
on both sides of the Atlantic for evidence in
support of forgery. And now it is diplo-
matically spread abroad that the Marquis
of Lokne and the Princess Louise would
not mind coming to Australia as a sort of
dual Governor-General in the event of
Federation. This, if not the last straw, is
the last but one or two. In domestic matters
the change, no doubt, might be advantageous
to the young people, for the warmth of Aus-
tralia is credited with virtues not to be
expected in the snows of Canada, But in
politics, above all other pursuits, it is inju-
dicious to buy the skin of the bear while it
is still on him.
Judge and Jury.
We have no apology to offer for saying some-
thing more, or even repeating what we have
already said, upon the ludicrous inequality of
the sentences passed by different Judges on
criminals convicted of the same offence. If
there were no other side to the business than
the ludicrous one, we should expect our readers
to be tired of the joke, and drop it; but every
cloud has something to set off its silver lining,
and there is a serious side even to the comedy
that we humorously call the administration of
justice. It is funny at first sight to see Smith
sent up for five years for lifting a hundred
pounds, whije his brother-embezzler, Jones,
gets off with a six months’ stretch for £5OOO,
but it is rough on Smith, and it is bad for the
community. People of the British race like
fair play even for criminals, and they can’t
keep their respect for Courts that don’t give
fair play. The popular idea of punishment is
that it ought to lie proportioned to the crime,
and should not depend on the idiosyncracy of
the Judge. The Bulletin, seeing that it shares
that popular idea, claims that in a criminal
case the jury, and not the Judge, should pro-
nounce the sentence—that the men who are
entrusted with the duty of deciding upon the
fact of a prisoner’s guilt should also be allowed
tr decide the extent of his guilt.
* # #
It is no answer to say that the effect would
merely be to substitute the caprice of the jury
for the caprice of the Judge. The opinion of
one man is an individual opinion. The joint
opinion of twelve men chosen at random is a
more or less fair sample of the collective opinion
of the community ; and this collective opinion
ought to determine the amount of punishment,
within statutory limits, for a given crime. That
principle is already recognised in our Constitu-
tion. No Judge is given a free hand to ad-
minister punishment at his sole discretion;
Parliament lays down the limits within which
he is to act. For such an offence, he is told,
you can sentence the offender to not more than
ten years, or not less than three. That is to
say, the collective opinion of the community, as
expressed in Parliament, regards the various
grades of that offence as worthy of punishment
ranging between three and ten years. If there
were no grades recognised, there would be no
discretionary range of punishment. Now, when
the evidence in a particular case has been taken,
the grade of the offence is fixed. It is no
longer, for example, an abstract case of robbery
with violence, it is a concrete case of robbery
under such and such circumstances, and with
such and such a degree of violence. The com-
munity has expressed its collective opinion as to
the various degrees of punishment appropriate
to the various degrees of that crime ; and we
say that it is the collective opinion of the com-
munity that should allot the particular punish-
ment appropriate to that particular degree of
the crime. And, as the recognised medium
through which the community expresses its
collective opinion on crimes in the abstract
is Parliament, so the proper medium for the
expression of its collective opinion on crimes in
the concrete form is a jury.
So far as the logic of the question is concerned,
there is a good deal to be said in favour of revers-
ing the present position of affairs altogether,
and letting the Judge and jury change functions.
The judge is, or from his experience ought to
be, more skilled than the jury in weighing and
sifting evidence. Prima-face, perhaps, his
business should be to deliver the verdict, and
let the jury pronounce the sentence. That,
however, is outside the scope of our present
enquiry. We should not trouble about precise
lonic if the present system were practically
satisfactory and ensured substantial justice.
Before the affairs of men can be regulated with
the scientific precision of a delicate machine, the
motives that actuate men will have to be mastered
and measured and scheduled as minutely and as
thoroughly as the blind physical forces of
nature have been in the scientist’s laboratory.
That will take some time yet. Meanwhile we
ought to be, and we must be, satisfied with
rough justice and reasonable consistency in its
administration, but we don’t get it.
# * *
The ease stands this way. Let six Judges try
the same case on the same evidence, and they
will probably give six different—some of them
widely different—sentences, in accordance with
their varying sense of the moral gravity of the
crime. Six different juries, if fairly chosen,
would give more approximately the same sen-
tence, seeing that their average appreciation of
the quality of the offence would probably repre-
sent the average sense of the community. And
that average sense is the only true standard by
which the guilt of any offender can be measured.
Courts of law do not exist for the purpose of
enforcing any ideal morality. There are many
things that the moralist regards as criminal to
which the law keeps its eyes tightly shut. The
social-purity pietist we all know who, habitually
living at the rate of something more than a thou-
sand a year over his income, is systematically
robbing his creditors of that amount. He is
morally a thousand times worse, and he is a
thousand times more harmful to the community)
than the petty thief who robs a till or picks a


poeket J but tho law Avhich sends the petty
thief to gaol has nothing but obsequiousness for
Ifis white-waistcoated competitor in the whole-
sale line.
# # #
And quite properly so. The law is nothing
more, at any rate it has no business to be any-
thing more, than an authoritative expression of
public opinion; and public Opinion, unfor-
tunately, is not yet educated up to the pitch of
seeing any immorality in running up bills that
von know you can’t pay. No action, however
objectionable from an ethical point of view, that
does not meet Avith pretty general disapproval,
or pretence of disapproval, will ever get on to
the pages of the statute-book as a crime. (fur
national sensibility is jarred at the sight of a
carter flogging his horse, and cruelty to animals
is accordingly made a crime ; but avc do not, as
a nation, see any particular cause for unfavour-
able comment in the system that chains haggard
women and famished children to a hopeless life
of unending toil. So the sweater waxes fat and
flourishes, and the successful factory-master
grows to great honour in the State and is made
a G.M.G. Crime, in short, is that which
shocks the public sentiment, and it is only
because it does so that it is made punishable.
Consistency demands that in like manner the
degree of punishment should be measured by
the degree in which public sentiment is shocked ;
and that is only to be determined by the ex-
pression of public opinion through its authorised
mouthpiece, the jury.
* # *
There is nothing revolutionary in the proposal
to make the jury the judges not only of the fact
of criminality, but of its degree. In our civil
courts the principle is recognised to the full.
Had Reseigh Martin been sued in a libel
action by Commissioner Eddy, the jury, if they
found him guilty, would have had to assess the
penalty Avhich he had to pay, and in default of
payment he Avould have gone to gaol. Yet
that same jury, seeing that he was tried on the
criminal side instead of the civil side, Avere con-
sidered unfit to he entrusted with the assess-
ment of the penalty ! All they were allowed
to do was to find that as a fact he was guilty,
and the rest avos left to the Judge. Now, if a
jury is a fit tribunal to exercise the power of
punishing a man Avitli a fine of £IOOO or a
farthing for a libel or an assault, it is fit to
exercise the power of fixing the amount of his
punishment when the aggrieved individual seeks
satisfaction through the medium of the criminal
law. If it is not fit for the one, it is not fit for
the other. Even the criminal law as it stands
at present giA r es effect to the opinion of the jury
that a prisoner is not worthy of any punishment
at all, but it Avill calmly ignore their opinion
that he is worthy of 24 hours’ imprisonment. In
the first case the Judge is bound by the opinion
of the jury and must set the accused free, but
in the second case he is at liberty to treat them
Avith contempt and impose a penalty, if he
chooses, of 10 years’ penal servitude.
# #
Again, take the case of homicide. The jury
have three courses open to them. They may
acquit the prisoner, or, if they find him guilty,
they may bring in a verdict of either man-
slaughter or murder. In other words, they
have a choice between acquittal, imprisonment,
and death. What logical or reasonable objec-
tion could there be to extending the principle,
and, as they have the power. of distinguishing
between the degree of crime that deserves death
and the degree that is expiated by imprison-
ment, letting them distinguish between the
degrees that deserve longer or shorter terms of
imprisonment ? There would be no more practi-
cal difficulty inputting this system into operation
than is found in the existing system of civil
procedure ; in fact, it would merely he making
the practice uniform. The gist of a Judge’s
summing up in a civil case is this: “Gentle-
men, if you find that the plaintiff has not
proved his case, you must return a verdict for
the defendant. If, on the other hand, you find
that the plaintiff has proved his case, your ver-
dict must he for him, and it will then become
your duty to consider the question of damages.”
Then his Honor explains the principle on which
the jury are to assess the damages. What
difficulty would there lie in adapting the same
summing up to a criminal case ? “ Gentlemen,
if yon find the Crown Prosecutor has not proved
his case, return a verdict of not guilty. Rut if
you find the prisoner guilty—and you are sworn
to find your verdict as to the facts before giving
any consideration whatever as to the question
of punishment—then you must determine what
penalty he is to suffer. The law allows you to
award imprisonment for any term not exceeding
so many years, and not less than so many.”
And so on. That would he consistent, it Avould
he just, and it would be likely to give satisfac-
tion to the community. The present system is
glaringly inconsistent, grossly unjust, and if it
gives satisfaction to anybody The Bulletin
has not yet heard from him.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Gall of Monopoly.
There is an unfathomable reserve of cast-iron
cheek in the average human being. In, one of
Besawt’s novels, for example, the owner of an
asylum arrests a passing citizen under the im-
pression that he is an escaped lunatic, and when
he finds out his mistake, after he has chained
up his patient, and cut off his hair, and kicked
him, and straight-jacketed him, and emptied
forty buckets of water over him, he charges the
victim thirty guineas for a month’s board and
lodging in advance, and fires him out. This
proceeding, and especially the item, “wear
and tear of bucket, two guineas,” has always
occurred to us as a fair and reasonable example
of widespread cheek, but the South Australian
Employers’ Union has gone one better with
remarkable success. In a circular issued by
this gladsome institution the following para-
graph is conspicuous :
The time has now arrived when it is imperative that
capitalists and employers of labour should use the ballot-
box -
We pause in the middle of the sentence to
admire the sublimity of this idea. If is time
that capitalists should xtsi, the ballot-box 1 Tre-
mendous Moses ! The ballot-box is pretty
nearly Avorn to rags through the vigour Avitli
Avhicli they have used it already, and if they
use it any harder it will burst under the strain.
Doesn’t the capitalist wake up early every
polling-day, and go out and vote for his house
iii one electorate, and his club in another, and
his share in a syndicate in a third, and his
sheep-run and his six dummied selections in
seven more, and his Avild-cat gold-mine in some
other place ; and doesn’t he rout out all his
sons to do the same thing till there are forty■
nine votes in that one family? And then
doesn’t lie try to cajole or bounce "all his
employes to vote likewise, and spend the rest
of his leisure objecting to the working-man Avho
lias only one vote, and getting him struck off the
rolls ? And if he hasn’t been using the ballot-
box under all these varied circumstances, then
what on earth has he been using? We will
now consider the rest of the sentence :
—that is, if they wish to prevent the Labour party from
packing both Houses.
That strikes the summit, and the vast resources
of human gall could hardly go further. The
two Houses of the South Australian Parliament
are choke-full of landlords, squatters, mine-
owners, merchants, manufacturers, lawyers,
financiers, speculators, importers, and assorted
employers, and Labour, which forms nine-
tenths of the community, has hardly one
genuine representative. Labour .has done a lot
to return this gang of legislators, but it has
done it from sheer force of habit, for the work-
man has hardly begun to realise the possibility
of sending men of his oavh order into Parlia-
ment, so profound is his unconscious reverence
for a black coat, a large stomach, and a
quantity of jewellery. But when the workman
sends a capitalist into the Senate, that capitalist
represents him just as much as Louis Napoleon
represented the French Republic in the days
when the mighty liar was President in name,
and was preparing to be Emperor in reality.
The workman is beginning to realise this fact,
and it is his growing desire to be represented
by men of his own order, which the Employers’
Union describes as “packing both Houses.”
It would be interesting reading if that intelli-
gent body would supply answers to one or two
questions. First, if nine-tenths of the nation
has not a right to pack both Houses, then Avho
has that right ? Second, when one-tenth of the
nation—the tenth that merely represents capital
—fills the entire Legislature, what is the name
for the situation then existing —is it “pack-
ing?” and, if it isn’t, then what is it? Thirdly,
is Capital prepared to rise and openly move the
abolition of government by majority, and if it
isn’t, then does it propose to govern on the
assertion that it is the majority, and in that
case is there enough hard lying on earth to back
up the assertion ? The Employers’ Union can
find good material for another circular in fur-
nishing solutions for these three little problems.
Suicide.
Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, struck a large
deposit of common-sense the other day Avhen he
entered a protest against that time-honoured
verdict; “ Suicided while in a state of tempor-
ary insanity.” The verdict, no doubt, does no
particular harm to anybody, but it is eminently
ridiculous and a remnant of an objectionable
superstition, and if abstract truth is worth any-
thing, even when there is no monetary result
attached, such \ r erdicts ought to cease. For in
all reason and common intelligence there is no
evidence as to the state of anybody’s mind to
be deriv r ed from the mere fact that he committed
suicide; the act is one which can only be judged
by results, and no one really knows what the
results are. If this world be worth living in,
then the man who leaves it needlessly, and
before his time, is in a state of insanity, either
temporary or otherwise; if it be not worth
living in, then the man who suicides is a pro-
found philosopher and the lunatic is the man
who remains alive. Whether the present state
is good enough to stay in can only be decided,
however, by comparing it with the next one,
and the men who haA r e instituted that com-
parison are all dead; therefore, coroners and
jurymen and similar authorities, not being dead,
are unable to do more than indulge in vague
conjectures. In the old days the Church
had a habit of burying the suicide at
midnight at a spot where four roads met,
and driving a big stick through his dishonoured
carcase : and the Church at the present day
assumes that the suicide has gone to perdition ;
and, as it is unpleasant for any respectable
family to have a relative in perdition, the
average jury gets out of the difficulty by stating
that the deceased was not responsible for his
actions. Moreover, the jury is generally well-fed
and comparatively contented, and no man who has
just had a large dinner can readily understand
lioav any sane individual would face a risk of any
kind that he could possibly avoid. And yet if
the suicide was a Universalist in loav circum-
stances, Avho resided in a boiler and had no
worldly prospects whatever, or an Atheist who
camped out beneath a wharf and had no boots,
it is obvious that he did the most really sane and
reasonable act of his whole career Avhen he cut
that career short. A man who has nothing to
live for and something to gain by dying, might
lie a fair subject for an official inquiry if he
didn’t die, and there would bo abundant justifi-
cation for the A r erdict “ Remained alive owing
to temporary insanity,” but, so far as his death
is concerned, there is nothing to be surprised
about. And if he was a believer of the ordi-
nary type the verdict, in most cases, ought
to he : “ Died because this world Avas so
bad that he didn’t think the next could be any
worse”—or, in other words, “ Died because this
world Avas a horrible certainty and the next was
only an unpleasant conjecture,” The average
suicide, in short, dies through sheer poverty.
He has to choose between suiciding and robbing
somebody. If he suicides the law is considerate
when consideration is no good to him, and says
he Avas in an irresponsible state ; whereas if he
robs somebody he gets no consideration at all,
but goes to gaol. And, being sane, and there-
fore able to appreciate the dilemma, he takes
the only way out of it with a bit of borroAvcd
rope, Avhereas if he Avere a lunatic he would pro-
bably fail to realise the full measure of-the
difficulty, and go on living. Taking it all
round, the twelve thickheaded men who sit
on the suicide’s remains might as Avell cease
to make unfounded assertions about, the intelli-
gence of the dead. When they find that the
deceased is a corpse they are on safe ground,
but when they go beyond that they are fooling
with the mysteries of the unknowable, and
when eight butchers and four whitewashes and
house-painters undertake to explain the con-
struction of the human intellect, they have a
large contract on hand.
♦—
The Many Cities of Melbourne.
Footsokav, the muddiest and most evil-smell-
ing of Melbourne suburbs, has just assumed the
meaningless title of “city,” and his Worship
the Mayor is expanding his chest in honour of
the fact that alone he did it. There are now
nine cities included in the capital of Victoria.
Very soon the number will he SAvelled, by civic
asininity, to nineteen, and the time is not far
distant when ninety inflamed persons in fur-
trimmed skirts will each haA r e a city to his own
puffy cheek. The beAvildered resident of Mel-
bourne is troubled Avith a new sort of Athana-
sian Creed, to the effect that he lives in nine
cities and not one-city—without reckoning the
towns about to become cities or the boroughs on
the verge of breaking out into towns. The
evolution of Melbourne boroughs into cities is a
simple and contemptible process. When a
sufficient number of jerry-built imitations of the
English bathing-machine have been slung to-
gether in the centre of a swamp, the residents
are secretly incited by somebody to form
themselves into a borough. Whereupon
an enterprising contractor runs up another
acre or so of populous neighbourhood on
time-payment and adds a couple of two-storey
brick pubs in commanding positions. After
which the population adjourns to the pub. that
sells most beer for threepence, at the invitation
of a person aa lio treats the crowd and declares
that the expanding borough of Swampslush
must assert its independence by establishing a
Town Hall, and electing him to the position of
Mayor. More drinks are ordered in, and the
resolution is carried unanimously. In due
course the toAvn is “produced,” a Toavii Hall
rears its head like a pelican in the wilderness,
and a little Municipal slioav is run by a com-
pany of barnstormers until the Mayor of the
hour (perhaps the same one who “ shouted ” in
the first instance) decides that the eye of the
world has cast a significant glance at .Swamp-
slush, by way of a reminder that it ought to
assume t he dignity of ‘ ! city. ” By this time there
may be, as in the Footscray case, some six
thousand ratepayers on the roll, and the craving
of a man, whom most of them have never heard
of, for a distinction which doesn’t make two-
penn’orth of difference to anybody else is
treated Avith apathetic scorn. So the Mayor
and corporation invite their beloved Governor
to come along in his yelloAV barouche, and on
the appointed day Houetoux makes triumphal
entry under four strings of flags, and informs
the assembled multitude of sixty-seven souls
that he has much pleasure in proclaiming
Swampslush a city, because it was gazetted a
city the other day, and he can see loyalty to
the CroAvn written on every brick. This busi-
ness being disposed of, the Mayor conducts his
Governor to luncheon, and everybody drinks
the health of the Queen, and his Excellency,
and the new City, with great fury. There the
matter ends. Another ill-drained district has
allowed another lump of human vanity to
glorify himself in its name, and, if he' pays for
the luncheon, all well and good. If the luncheon
is consumed out of the rates, however, then this
childish changing of a sham town into a bogus
city is merely a scandalous occasion for another
dirty little job. Anyway, Victoria will soon
require a special Act of Parliament to restrain
the pomposity of its thousand and one metro-
politan magnates. Melbourne itself can never
lie more than a city, yet within its boundaries
there will soon be included a feAV gross of
Dominions, and a good round dozen Empires,
unless the Law prohibits mayors from “pro-
claiming ” themselves egregious asses any
further.
■
Home Rule for the A.M.P. Society.
Next month the animal election of directors
for the A.M.P. Society, the great and truly
Federal institution of which not only Ncav
South Wales but the whole of Australasia is
proud, Avill be held in Sydney. For two
vacancies on the directorate, no feAver than
twelve men of high professional or mercantile
standing have been nominated. A new point
to be suggested to the annual meeting is the
desirability of amending the Society’s rules, so
that each province shall elect its own board of
directors. This reform carries with it, on its
face, the reasons for its acceptance. At present,
the local boards are the appointments of the
central office, but the policy is strongly to be
reprehended notwithstanding it has been of
service in the past—on the ground that it
must lead, with the expanding business of the
passing years, to centralisation with all its in-
evitable abuses. The system of electing directors
by the members to the local directorates would
he simply an extension of the mutual principle.
The more distributed the government, whether
it be of a society or a political body, the
stronger the feeling of mutual dependence and
of reciprocal interests. It is the mutuality of
the A.M.P. which has been the loadstone of its
phenomenal success, and it needs no argument
to demonstrate that the greater the share of
power retained by the policy-holders, the more
direct their interest in the society’s prosperity,
and in the maintenance of its prestige. The
election of local men would make the relation of
a policy-holder closer and more personal to the
association, for where one has a personal know-
ledge of the elective directors noAv, a thousand
Avould have such under the projected plan.
Again, nominee appointments to the local board
might (Ave do not say they have been so in the
past) prove inimical to the society’s prosper! ty,
because the local board being a nominee one,
could hardly, upon any broad question of policy,
conflict with their nominators. For these
reasons, The Bulletin intends to plump Avhen
the time arrives for a decentralisation of direc-
torial control. And Avhile alluding to Iho
Society's affairs we may throAV out the idea that,
now that the safe policy of high premiums has
been so brilliantly demonstrated, the Associa-
tion might consider the advisability of reducing
its premium rates. It will have before long to
'meet the problem of declining returns upon
investments ; it cannot expect to yield bonuses
of equal value to those which have accrued in
the past in the face of a declining percentage of
interest ; and large surpluses are by no means
the first thing to be considered when there is a
difficulty in the selection of investments. Now,
a lowering of the premium means an immediate
bonus to the policy-holder without the trouble
and expense of, first of all, collecting and then
returning the bonus. We are quite aware thai
a big bonus is a capital advertising card, but a
society of the stability, the scope, and the pres-
tige of the A.M.P. can surely, at this epoch of
its history, disdain and cast away every vestige
of the tricks of the canvasser.
Christian Torture.
It is the fashion of those smug and self-com-
placent persons who pose as the Teachers of the
People, to prate about the superior enlighten-
ment and humanity of present days. We are
told, ad nauseam, that every man nowadays,
however humble and insignificant, is sure of
justice and fair play in his treatment by our
constituted authorities, and that it is the pride
and praise of modern times that tyranny and
cruelty and all that sort of thing are dead and
buried. Yet we sometimes find that notwith-
standing these assurances, things are done
which could scarcely have been outdone in the days
when the rack, the thumbscrew, and such-like
agents of the law, were recognised and approved
institutions. A case in Melbourne illustrates
this. A Hindoo named Fatta Chand was
charged, some three months ago, with the
murder of a fellow black, of the name of
Juggoo Mull. The jury disagreed on
the first trial, and the prisoner, after
lying a further period of a month in
gaol, was tried again. This time the
Crown, as represented by the Crown Prosecutor
and the Judge, took care that there should he
no disagreement. Fatta Ctiand was found
guilty, and cast for death. Well and good, so
far; since, although the evidence against the
accused was purely circumstantial, there was
no moral doubt of his guilt. But here comes in
the wrong which was done to the man. He
was placed in a “condemned coll,” loaded with
the usual amount of irons, and kept there a
■ month in suspense as to his fate, because the
Governor was away in the malice country,
and Premier Munro was in Sydney help-
ing to fix up the Federation scaffolding.
No Executive could be got together until
Fatta Chand, who refused to eat, had lan-
guished a full month after being sentenced to
death. When his case wm considered
and the death-warrant was signed, the date of
execution Avas fixed for a da fortnight
thence. In answer to the
Minister of Justice, Mr. Davies,, with sickening
cant, said that it was desirable to keep Fatta
Ck.vxb alive for such further time, in order
that he might have an opportunity of embracing
the Christian faith, and learning the art of
getting full salvation from his sins. So the
miserable man Avas kept on and, still refusing to
eat, was fed artificially. Three times a day lie
Avas thrown upon his back, strapped doAvn, and
a certain quantity of nourishment pumped into
his stomach. This was done by means of an
ingenious contrivance by Avhich obstinate sub-
jects, closing their teeth, are fed through
a long pipe passed through a nostril
down the throat, and so into the epigastrium of
the victim. This Avas done in order to keep up
Fatta Chand’s strength and spirits during the
period allotted by the Minister of Justice for
his conversion to Christianity. If he suffered
bodily, it Avas that his soul might be saved.
And that this desirable end might be achieved
an ancient missionary, who spoke Hindustanee,
took a hand in the game. Twice each day he
attended the condemned man and attempted to
pump the water of life into his poor intellectual
system. Thus the man Avas fed up for the
gallows, instead of being hanged right away, in
order that he might have a chance of learning
how the Feringhis send their murderers straight
from the hangman’s grip to the bosom of Jesus.
It Avas labour lost, hoAvever. Fatta Chand
took no more kindly to Christian consolation
than to Dr. Shield’s injected beef-tea. He
Avent to the galloAVS, no doubt, with a proper
contempt for his tyrants, and glad enough to
escape them. He died a veritable martyr, and,
to our mind, illustrating a circumstance we
have frequently pointed out—to Avit, that our
civilisation is but veneer, and that for all our
boasted nineteenth-century sAveetness and light
avc are capable of as brutal outrage as any
breech-clouted savage dancing round a pro-
spective “ long pig,” or any agent of the Inqui-
sition at work with the Devil’s tools in the
name of God and true religion.
——
The Argus tells us that—
The loss on the withdrawal of old silver coin and all
expenses in connection with the issue of new coin have
been defrayed solely by the Imperial Government, no
charge having been made to either the local Govern-
ment or the public.
This would lead to the impression that people
are under an obligation to the Imperial GoA r ern
ment for meeting losses and defraying expenses
in this connection; whereas exactly the reA T erse
is the case. An enormous profit accrues at all
times to the Imperial Government from the
coinage of silver, for the silver coin of Britain is
a mere token having a legalised and not an
intrinsic value. The illicit coiner has no induce-
ment to waste his “art” on our silver money
(that is in producing low-grade and spurious
tokens) as the profit from the legitimate material
yields him sufficient recompense for his labours.
Witness the fact that a firm of German coiners,
some years ago, actually put half-crown and
two shilling pieces—manufactured in Germany
—into circulation in England, and although
“spurious” in laAv, because being from other
than the Imperial Mint, they were, as a matter
of fact, better in quality and of greater intrinsic
value. How about thh fluctuating Values of the
subsidiary coinages of India and Hong Kong ?
They come from the Imperial Mini, but the cir-
culating dependencies having ini gold standard,
their values arc regulated by that of bar silver.
Why lidk of loss and place ns under ohliga
linns ? •


Mr. Fitzgerald, the labour delegate, at the
Ballarat Congress called, so a press telegram avers,
for “ Three cheers for Jesus, the Socialist.” That
. Frenchy thing, which has not even the merit of
being original, sounds as blasphemous as the votes
•of thanks condescendingly passed to the Almighty
oy the Deity’s intimate friends, the clergy, and
will not help along the cause of Labour in Aus-
tralia.
[?]
kid Macquarie-slreet North, Sydney, April 29, 1891,
Mr Dear Moorabinda,—
Sydney Horticultural Society’s ’santhemum display at
the local Town Hall on 22nd ult. was by far the most
successful show, in every way, that this vigorous Society
has ever held. There were loads of fine specimens of the
Japanese flower (though lam noadmirerof Brobdingnagian
blooms ot dropsical development forced beyond the design
of Nature into floral monstrosities), one root bearing
flowers in crimson, yellow, white and old gold ; the Un-
believing present got down on all-fours to see that the
phenomenon wasn’t managed with a heap of gardener’s
guile and a little string. The ’mums were the piice de
resistance, but all the greenery available at present was
on view, and one little side-show of onions and carrots
and so on, was the centre of the adoring crowd which
always lingers at the shrine of something filling. The
decorated tables were mostly pretty, and I rejoiced to see
that the recent mania for stacks of verdure has exhausted
itself, and more moderate and possible floriture adopted
—exhibit 181 being nicest in my eyes, a fairy-like
mingling of white and scarlet and ferns, with a glass
lake, in the centre of which two water-lilies were “making
believe ” to float, its delicate taste being’ enhanced by a
vulgar arrangement across the way in all the colours of a
Chinese lantern.
A regular crash—headed by Lord and Lady Jersey, who
opened the show—turned up on two-and-sixpenny day
and promenaded to the strains of Vittorini’s band, and
there were one or two frocks. Lady Jersey (now wasn’t
it very odd that there was no committee bouquet at such
a proceeding?) was sketchy in limp cream and yellow
striped silk trimmed with gold and silver guipure, bonnet
in cream straw, cream feathers and pink flowers, pink
fan ; Mrs. W. P. Manning, Sydney’s new Mayoress (a tall
matronly Mayoress), in grey with trimmings of slate-
colour silk, bonnet en suite ; Miss Manning, in dark-blue
and a black hat; Mrs. Havilland Reynolds (wife of the
hon. see.) in aubergine serge, black hat with aubergine
plumes, did the show with Lord Jersey in a turquoise tie;
the Misses Halliday in workman-like dresses of black
serge braided in black, black hats relieved respeotively
with tomato-red and canary-yellow velvet; Mrs.
Vauderveer Green in leaf-brown, toque en suite.
In her opening speech Lady Jersey spoke of the
“ beautiful fields of Australia,” and thereby emphasised
the fact that she is still a new-chum who probably thinks
of the bush as “ the woods.” I once heard a lisping new-
chum speak of the Australian “meadovvth” to an old
pioneer. The ancient regarded him with a baleful glare
and then contemptuously replied: “D’ye mean to tell
me, Mister, that you dunno a (expletive) paddick when,
yer see one ?”
The Metropolitan LiedertafeTs moonlit-concert at the
Association Ground, on the 24th ult., was a novel sort of
ceremony, which would have been highly successful had
it not ended in driving rain, and if the lighting on the
grand-stand had not been left to strings of Chinese
lanterns, which went out or caught light in their old,
sweet way, while people had to strike matches to see
what was the next item on the card: Of the vocal efforts
of the warblers (who occupied a platform in the centre
of the lawn and were assisted by a regimental brass
band), the Pilgrim’s chorus from “ Tannhauser " was the
most artistic item. Abt’s “ Evening ” (with Mr. Clancy
singing the solo part in rather a robust manner for such
tender melody) gained a furious recall, but the staccato
passages in “ The Frontier Line ” were so clumsily done
that an audible grin went up from the crowd—number-
ing thousands of people. There was absolutely no
or three misguided creatures, who turned
out in white evening frocks and clouds, looking very eerie
in the cold moonlight; while one woman wore a plush
wrap over a snowy decollete bosom in the teeth of the
creepy blast. Ido hope she had the sense to rub her nose
with a tallow-candle when she got home.
And apropos to the concert, some people gush over ic
as a “delightful innovation in this climate” which
“ought to become general,” but, for my part, unless
things are bettor managed, I would prefer music in a
concert-room, where the acoustics are good and the air is
at least free from tobacco. The other evening every man
on the lawn was smoking a different compound, and when
you got a whiff of them altogether—ugh! Besides which.,
moonlight concerts seem to be as spoony as moonlight
picnics. In every corner the golden head of Angelina
leant stiffly against the coat-collar of her Edwin, and one
or tw’o souls but with a single thought did the lawn (when
the moon slipped under a cloud) with “his’’arm about
“her’’waist! Indeed, one felt as if one had intruded
unwittingly at a honeymoon resort.
Speaking of honeymoons, there is a growing tendency-
on the part of newly-married couples to keep their place-
of refuge a close secret, and the unbelieving among the'
wedding-guests say that this mystery is resorted to when
the culprits are only going to moon about the next suburb.,
so to speak. Certainly when Mount Victoria or Tasmania:
is the destination everybody seems to know it, but when;
“secresy” is observed it’s a hundred to one you cannon
off the recent connubialities on the beach at Coogee.
Things were pretty gay at a recent Sydney dance when
a certain now-travelling matron and a musical man sat.
out several numbers, in a damp garden under circum-
stances that your blushing Sappho cannot even hint at.
Abelard is looking more dismal than ever now that a.
hort, sharp stop has been put to further “ainourosities.”
“ Kind friends ” told hubby at last of the little romance.
A very full and well-dressed d.c. was thrilled to its top
ringlets at “ London Day by Day,” Bland Holt’s latest
shriek, on 22nd ultimo, and there was a large assortment
Of nice girls in the second row of the stalls too, amongst
whom one gifted actor (ever besieged with little rosy
notes) distributed absolutely killing glances with strict’
impartiality - especially when the company inarched pas*
at the end of each “ ak.” “ London Day by Day ”is so
gorgeously put on that the dressing of the Thespiennes is
thrown into the shade by the brightness of their sur-
roundings—only Kate Bishop’s mulberry-coloured gown,
and Vivienne’s old-English frock of pink muslin, holding
their own against the scenery.
Newington College complimentary sports attracted a
3000 attendance to the Association Ground on Wednesday
week, when tho usual array of beauty tripped up and
down the lawn utterly regardless of the sports themselves,
as usual. From the frocking on view one gathered the
impression that the world is hanging fire with its autumnal
outer covering, and consequently if it hadn’t been for a
slight, erect damsel in grey cheviot, made with a New-
market coat with the collars faced with grey silk,
Toreador “ shapo ” in grey felt with a bob at the back of
the crown of grey and cardinal pom-poms, even the
ladies’ reserve would have looked like an airing-ground
for resurrected raiment. The performers wore the usual
whirl of prismatic guernseys over inverted-saucer chests,
and wrinkled hosen over axe-handle shanks, and the
band played all the time. P. Kelynack won the principal
trophy, and is now chief athlete of the college.
The first performance of “The Corsican Brothers,” at
Her Majesty’s, on 25th ult., drew a dressy d.c., though
covered collar-bones were obviously worn and very wisely,
too, since one can more safely reveal one’s clavicle in the
depth of winter than just when tho season is turning, and
don't you forget it. Mrs. Harry Jewett (Maggie Knight)
wore a charming frock in pale-pink surah and hand-
painted silk trimmed with Maltese lace and chiffon; and a
sort of fire-grate costume ail red and barred across the
front with black velvet was stylish in a certain sense.
Behind the floats the dressing was picturesque, Handsome
George (as Fabien) wearing in the first act an artistic
Corsican garb of russet-brown smalls with velvet of
chrome-green faced with bars of scarlet, lavender and
white scarf ijpund the waist and white jaconet shirt. As
Hortense (pronounced by one “principal” “Hortong”)
Edith Blande, in an auburn wig, wears a special ball-
dress of flesh-pink brocade, court train edged with grey
silk passementerie, the front of pink silk designed in a
fern pattern of grey and artistically draped with pink
chiffon, streak of stage paste on the corsage and grey
fan. The bal masque costumes are very gay—one white
chiffon Turkish toilette over flesh-pink tights which
gleamed through the trousers made the pretty wearer
look exactly like a ballet-girl-in-aspic.
“ They ” are wearing “ their ”_hair bird’s-nest fashion in
Melbourne just now, and the swagger Victorienne is
popularly supposed to complete her coiffure by rushing
it violently through a rose-bush before she puts her
bonnet on. In Sydney the fashionable heads are getting
more sober and combed-looking every day—as become B
devout disciples of the smoothly-patted and braided Lady
Jersey.
A VVaverley (N.S.W.) domestic was left a legacy of
£12,000 the other day. Her mistress, on receiving the
retainer’s joyous and instant warning, congratulated her
with, “ I am glad to hear of your good fortune, Bridget.’’
At which all the fiery scorn of an heiress flashed into tho
boiled eye of the hireling—“ If you plaze, Mrs. Blank, me
name is Miss O’Hooligan,”
At a recent meeting of a Melbourne Ladies’ Debating
Club the question whether “ Men or Books ” had most
influence on the character was decided by a large
majority in favour of the former ! Indeed, one girly grad,
read a very eloquent paper to prove that men had more
influence in the formation of character than books 1! The
cultured, spectacled ’Varsity girl is only a skin-deep
pedant after all, ready to drop philosophy and run a fire,
side whenever she gets a chance.
From Miss A. M. Summerbelle, of Double Bay, I have
received three musical compositions—two of which, the
“Myee Waltz ” and “ Rondo in G ” (ii Maurice), published
some time ago, have not the charm of novelty which the
recently-issued “Gavotte in D. Major” possesses. The
gavotte ought to take, for the first movement in scattered
chords is very tuneful, and as it contains no technical
difficulties, seems to be the very piece for advanced
beginners. It is sold at all music-shops. Miss Summer-
belle will shortly publish a baritone song, written by
request for Mens. Deslouis.
Sydney thought it had been struck by a new kind of
maritime circus the other day when a brougham drawn
by a crowd of tars with two on the box dashed through
the streets to the railway-station, with the crowd whoop-
ing them on their way and a choice assortment of gutter-
snipes swarming in the wake. But it was only a naval
officer and his bride being sent off with alleged nautical
honours, and the spectacle was enough to make any girl
take a solemn vow that if she was ever inveigled into
matrimony with a maritime person she would escape
immediately afterwards in a balloon. I never saw two
people look more supremely idiotic in my life. I caught.a
fleeting glimpse of the panorama as it shinned ahead, and
—well, I did sympathise with the poor blushing victims
inside.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The tickets are going off well for the Majeroni Sydney
benefit, the box-plan for which will be opened on 4th
May. Lord and Lady Jersey are both to be present, and
the house will be the bumper the talented artists
deserve.
On sth inst. Lady Jersey holds a reception at Govern-
ment House. It is said that Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress
'(Mr. and Mrs. \V. P. Manning) intend giving a public
reception the following week.
Signora Majeroni—not yet physically strong enough for
stage-work, has commenced giving lessons in Italian, with
the eldest Jersey for her initial pupil. A letter from Lady
J. in pra se of the Signora's pronunciation and system is
published as an advt. in the S.M. Herald. Signor
Majeroni continues very ill.
The popular Mr. Charlie Eastlake, well remembered in
■Queensland in connection with the South Sea labour
trade, was married the other day in London to a clergy-
man’s daughter, and has, after an adventurous life,
settled clown on his ancestral domains in Devonshire.
A recent fashion-note says “White stockings are creep-
ing in.” Hideous I
Sydney School of Industry ball, under the patronage of
vice-regality, is at last arranged to take place in Centen-
nial Hall on Thursday, 21st May. Lady Macleay is hon.
sec.
Mr. John Lawler, senr., of the firm of Lawler and Sons,
George-street, Sydney, who left for Europe on Monday
last, received a cordial send-off at the hands of ninety of
the firm’s employees on the previous Saturday at his
Glebe Point residence, when they presented to him an
illuminated address. At the banquet which followed, the
gentleman who proposed Mr. Lawler’s health alluded to
him as one of the fairest employers of labour in Australia,
and stated that if there were many such as he, there
would be few, if any, strikes. This statement having been
warmly endorsed by several of the “ hands,” the evening
was otherwise filled by the rendering of many excellent
vocal and instrumental items.
Communications intended for this column should reach
UK Bulletin office by Tuesday.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Corsican Brothers.”
Theatre Royal “ London, Day by Day."
Criterion “ imprudence.”
Uarrick “Fun on the Bristol.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
Aquarium Bondi.
Aquarium Coogee.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “ The Darrells.
New Bijou “The Butler,”
Alexandra “ Lyons Courier.”
Princess’ . .. “The Old Guard.”
Opera House “Evangeline.”
“ The Corsican Brothers,” Boucicdiilt’s
version of Grange and Montepin’s adaptation
from Dumas pore’s story, was last played in
Sydney by Alfred Dampier, at the Standard in
July, ’B7. Well-staged, and well-handled, all
round, it is now likely to catch on at Her
Majesty's, On Saturday night the first act with
its “ hen-scene,” well played by Messrs. Harcourt
and Tolano, an artistically-devised village dance,
and a fine ghost scene, went with a bang. Here,
Fabian dei Franche, inlighting Mine, de Franchei
to tho door makes a clever “ prompt ” exit, Jack
Sweeney takes his place at the writing-table, back
to audience and the ghost of Lotus dei Franchi,
aided by the “Corsican trap ” comes up from the
hearth and gradually emerging into view, crosses
the stage obliquely, finally disappearing in the
clock. In the second act (by the way, if this were
made the first it would rid the now first of much
cumbersome explanation) a tableau curtain shut
off half the Opera House ball-scene and here
(on first night only) an attempt to attain
realism by breaking into speeches with gusts
of laughter from the dancers, spoiled several
front scenes and destroyed continuity. Then
the gallery chipped in and refused to be com-
forted till dei Franchi bellowed at them, “Silence,
you beasts, silence!” The third tier in this house
is very highly pitched, and when it is crowded and
the proscenium border not well raised —well, then,
those at the rear, failing to see the back of the
stage, are apt to amuse themselves by preventing
those who can see from hearing. On first night
the mirroi’ effects were not so successful as usual,
owing to the fact that the apparatus was fixed at
the wrong angle, but this has since been remedied.
Tho dei Franchi of George Rignold, well-garbed
and “ made-up,” is a good and faithful perform-
ance, whose chief fan t, we think, is delibera-
tion of utterance. To our mind, the denuncia-
tion of Chateau Renaud in the forest should
not be spoken like the unimpassioned indictment
qt a judge, but should pour forth with the
impetuosity of a suddenly-liberated torrent, or be
relentlessly hissed out, so as to give the idea of
repressed passion, just as steam forced from a
crater betrays the' intense heat of the volcano
within. The Chateau Renaud of Harry Jewett is
good in conception and result, especially in the
Fontainbleau scene, where his impersonation of the
manner in which the implacable, immovable
swordsman is weakened by superstitious dread, is
masterly. It is not often a stage duel between
men of such physique is witnessed, and its only
defect is over length The Emilie de Lesparre of
E lith Blande seems to sit on her more easily than
anything she has done of late. Arthur Greenaway,
emaciated by illness, and Harry Hoyte just re-
turned from Melbourne, made welcome reappear-
ances as Martelli and Mongiron. We don’t know
why the last act is shutoff fiom the audience by a
gauze. If it be, as reported, to suggest a hazy
atmosphere, then it is absurd, for frost clears the
air.
» * *
“ Modern Wives,” an adaptation by
Erne-t Warren from “La Bonheur Conjugal,”
succeeded “Tho Colonel”—he might have easily
lived through another week —at Sydney Criterion,
on Saturday. “Modern Wives,” last played
here in August, ’BB, is a bright and unpretentious
little play that is full of good lines and situations,
though much more might have been made by the
adaptor of the complications worked up to in the
last act. Brough, as the retired hatter, whose
married daughters have got divorce badly (it
comes like the influenza from Chicago, probably),
and who is about to give £5OOO as dowry to his
little girl, as an offset to her piano-playing, is in
his element, and his Caleb Chubb is without spot
or blemish. Cecil Ward has the next best show,
and his Noel Goldring is bright, lively and
consistent. Emma Temple, as Agatha, the young
shrew, whose husband states that she was altered
at the altar, if not changed at birth, was scarcely
hard and bitter enough. Arthur Lawrence, as
Honeysett, the soft hearted deserted man, has not
an enviable part, but he handles it rightly, and
the cut of his “clobber he makes three changes
—was much admired by a discriminative “circle.”
As Grace Goldring, the wife who is a perpetual
grace before cold meat, Mrs. Brough has a very
small part to handle. G. L. Gordon and JNellie
Mortyne are similarly blessed or cursed, just as
they chose to look at things. The young lady
whose sisters unhappiness does not preclude her
from leaping into matrimony, is not over well
played by Brenda Gibson, but her love-scene with
R. Harris, an idiotic doctor of the Webster in
“ Dr. Bill ” stamp, was much appreciated by
unfledged mashers and bread-and-butter misses
the other evening. “ Modern Wives ” has caught
on, but the management, resolved to take no
chances, put up “Imprudence,” one of Pinero's
earliest, first produced at London Folly in ’Bl, on
Saturday first.
sk * -*■ sk
“ London Day by Day ” is doing such big
biz. at Sydney Royal that the management see no
need to make a change just yet. “The Bells of
Haslemere ” is, however, in hand, and when it is
put up, Maggie Knight, a great Sydney favourite,
will make a welcome re-appearance after an
absence of nearly two years,
ik ik ik 31
Alfred Wyburd has bought in Bondi
Aquarium at public auction for the sum of £9OOO.
Now we shall see something.
* ik ik ik
At Coogeo Manager Larmour is showing
Joseph MacMahon’s perfected phonograph-—also
the slot phonograph ; and everything is very well,
thank you.
* ik ik
The attendance at the Misses Albu’s last
Sydney Town Hall concert was good, though not
up to the average of their previous appearances in
the building. They have gone to Melbourne.
* ik ik
The programme for the Majeroni matinee
testimonial benefit, to take place at Sydney Her
Majesty’s on Wednesday, May 16, will be filled
up with scenes from “Modern Wives ” (Brough-
Boucicault Comedy Co.), “Corsican Brothers”
(Rignold Dramatic Co.), and “Taken from Life”
(Bland Holt Co.), with songs and character
sketches by Mix Sheridan and the artistes of the
Garrick Theatre (Messrs. Hiscocks and Wilspn);
Dan Tracey and his Vaudeville Company will
introduce some variety business ; the Mac-
Mahonian phonograph will be shown; Maggie
Knight will recite. “ Papa’s Letter ” ; and Signor
Hazon will superintend the musical part of the
show, to which Mrs. V, Green, Miss 0, Baber,
Miss B. Rignold, and Messrs. Kowalski and
Allpress will contribute items. Over £2OO worth
of tickets have been already sold, and the affair
will be under Civic patronage.
Sir ill 3? ill
At Sydney Garrick stage-room is now
filled by Johnny Sheridan’s version of “Little
Black-Eyed Susan,” an olio of absurdities more
remarkable for the opportunities afforded for the
introduction of songs and dances than for the
faithfulness with which it burlesques the original
story. The great Sheridan plays the smuggler
who afterwards assumes command of a warship,
and finally becomes a judge, with a vast amount of
humour and go, and although he has never in his
life tasted intoxicants, makes a big hit
through the verisimilitude of his drunken
scene. Alfred James fitly plays tho Widow
Hatley, a bibulous, battered old party whose
personification must have cost the gifted
Alfred hours of police-court study. Gracio White-
ford tackles Susan, the cause of all the trouble,
and achieves, as usual, success. The William of
Stella Tudor is au elegant being, who has a dandy
American accent and a neatly-turned ankle.
Imano is the Doggrass, and his true, round voice is
heard to advantage throughout. The Snow ballet
is just a bit cold to look at these chilly nights, but
is otherwise lovely, and the Sailors’ ballet is
sweeter than jam. “ Fun on the Britol ” goes up
on Saturday night.
-;k- «- -ik ik
Friday nights with tho Divine Williams
are a marked success at Melbourne Alexandra,
where the Bard came under the patronage of Lord
Hopetoun (and suite) last week. Consequently,
“ As You Like It” will be played yet a third
time to-morrow (Ist), and would run on for
several more Fridays, but that the extensive
character of Dampier’s approaching production
will probably necessitate the Bard’s retirement for
a time. Miss Lily Dampier’s performance of
Rosalind is a pretty, poetical piece of work, at
once light and legitimate. Good in the first act,
she subsequently plays the boy in the best of
styles, wearing her doublet and hose with as much
ease as modesty, and never calling attention to
her sex by over-acting the part of the other fellow.
Coming after her long sequence of persecuted
wives and weeping mothers, this cheerful comedy
suggests the sunshine that follows the rain, or the
rainbow in the clouds. As Swinburne might
observe, if he were versed in Australian affairs—
Dampier’s fine voice and practised elocution are
as comforting as ever in the part of the moralising
Jaques, whilst Appleton’s Orlando is tolerably
young in appearance, if not in manner. But he
has a trick, unpardonable in such a well-seasoned
actor, of pausing and dropping his voice at the
end of every line. Robert Vernon’s rendering of
old father Adam is well spoken and sound; and,
of the others, Mrs. Dampier as Celia, and J. H,
Martin as Touchstone, are about the best. Several
minor characters, however, betray evidences of
the boss’s experienced coaching, and the fact that
sundry members of the company have respectable
singing voices makes itself heard in the course of a
rather musical evening. Finally, “As You Like
It ” is mounted with more respect for the feelings
of the late William S. than they sometimes receive,
under similar conditions, at higher-priced houses.
«. * * »
“The Lyons Courier,” which seems
nearly identical with the “Mail” that Irving
runs, filled the Alexandra bill on Saturday night.
As the virtuous Joseph Lesurques, alternately
with the bold, bad, brandy-proof Dubose, his
shadow, Dampier holds this classic melodrama in
either hand, and is equally clever with both. A
little more bustle and an infusion of husky whis-
per might improve the mail-robbery scene, while
a faster tongue throughout would better suit
Dubose’s business than the rounded utterances
which make him appear, morally as well as
physically, like an upright Joseph on the criminal
burst. Eacli character is clean cut, however, the
figure of Dubose being appallingly picturesque at
times. The stage fate of this gory ruffian is not
according to French records, but it preaches a
beautiful temperance sermon, anyway. If he
hadn’t kept a bottle to his lips at the critical
moment he might have gloated over the decapita-
tion of his “double,” and have lived to enjoy a
respectable funeral. As it is, he gets puled to
pieces all along of the accursed drink, which is
historically incorrect but otherwise very right
and proper. The robber band played rather out
of tune on Saturday, and Lesurques pere was
about as pathetic as a bull with a bad cold,
but seeing that the play's the thing and the main
thing is Dampier it is to be expected that “The
Lyons Courier ” will flourish until the coming
sensation is fixed up. And this same novelty
threatens to send Melbourne into fits. The entire
Wild West Show will be drafted into the new
Dampier drama, and Dr. Carver, his Injuns, and
cowboys will assist the plot by falling off bridges
on horseback, and putting bullets through the
leading villain after he has been scalped and
lassooed. May Bth is the date fixed for opening
this show of compound interest.
Melbourne’s dazzling halls of song and
dance are still hard at it, likewise the Waxworks
kangaroo continues to pat his adversary in an
aimless manner. Meanwhile Carver’s “Wild
America” will keep on at the Societies’ Gardens
until Alexandra arrangements are completed. .
** » »
The fame of “The Old Guard,” at Mel-
bourne Princess’, grows as rapidly as mustard and
cress, or bad habits, and people are nightly
turned away from the doors like mendicants who
ask church elders for sixpence when the world
isn’t looking, and no newspaper is ready to publish
a list of subscriptions. The secret of this boom is
still vested in Elton and the ballerinas, of whom
the front girl in yellow is a delightful dish ot
curry in herself. There are plenty of respectable
citizens who would gladly sit and watch such leg*
ascending by the hour together—-not that ky*
ever ascend together, because the Commonwealth
wouldn’t be strong enough to stand it if they did.
Paraphrasing an immortal verselet by Sir Ben-
jamin Backbite — _ - ;
Sure, never was seen such sublime ballerinas:
All fairies are fillies, but these fillipinas.
To give them this title is senseless and wrong—
Their kicks are so high and their skirts are so long-
Those languors of Lily’s we pardon
When dramas condemn her to gloom—
’Tis here, in the Forest of Arden,
We find the fair blossom in bloom.
The heart of the chappie she captures,
His spiiit is held in a vice;
When set off by roses and raptures
The Lily’s uncommonly nice.


09 OKI
m
IURQiyUNPyg
B-Wheeler i C?jjs-*ati«J
MEWED
s.w
to
m
HEADQUARTERS
—FOB
Buggies,.Phaetons* Waggons, stc,
The' F. B. WHEELER CO.,'
318 Oaetlereagb Street, Sydney,
Elton has embellished his original triumph with a
few new—or as good as new—gags, and Flora
Graupner fetches them freely when she gets her
one chance. Ryley, too, whose part is very heavy
and whose baritone wants more light in it, has
apparently persuaded a barber to ameliorate the
condition of his forelock. Also Miss Florence
Young improves mightily and has a future before
her. This pure soprano went off like a stick some
months ago, and may become a rocket in course of
time. A thousand civil servants were to scintil-
late in the family-circle on Wednesday, and enjoy
themselves on the cheap.
* * iK
“Schoolmistress” has not boomed at the
Bijou, at least, not w rth mentioning, and Pinero’s
fragile piece of harmless fun will be seen no more
after Friday. On Saturday they put up “The
Butler,” a comedy written for J, L. Toole, which
was tried in Sydney some two years ago, Anson
plays the all-pervading menial.
** * *
George Darrell, at the Royal, was much
neglected during the larger part of last week, but
on Saturday there was a good attendance, pro-
bably swollen by the closing of the Opera House,
to welcome the return of that noble hero to
“The Sunny South.” George is ever at his
greatest in the character of Mat Morley. His
calm defiance of the conventionalities of life is a
profound study, and his top-boots form a splendid
index to bis character. Babs Berkeley, also, is
another tremendous opportunity for Mrs. Darrell,
and the remaining people scramble for whatever
opportunities are left, with considerable cleverness
in some cares, and precious little in others. Not
the least entertaining feature of a Darrellian
drama is the playbill, constructed on pantomime
principles. To avoid the possibility of a mistake,
George labels his various creations. Thus the
heroine is sometimes introduced to notice as
“a true woman,” so that her sex can be perceived
at a glance, or an aged chunk of the opposite per-
suasion appears in the well-defined capacity of
“ the old, old story,” lest he might attempt to
pass himself off as a young, young anecdote
or something. In “Sunny South ” we get some
touching illustrations of George’s desire to make
things easy for his patrons. The merest child
understands that “ Ivo Came (of the genius new-
chum) ” must be a gifted recent arrival, and there’s
no getting away from “ a representative digger.”
He can’t be a shipping-clerk out of a billet, or the
foreman of a boot-factory. Then there’s “Bank-
teller True (a brave example).” You are prepared
for True all the time, and rejoice to think that in
the hour of peril that estimable cashier is doomed
to do his dooty. But one waits in vain for the
programme whereon George himself will appear
as “ villain of the deepest dye,” or, better still, as
“excited populace (with muffled groans in the
distance).” Perhaps “Sunny South ” will hang
on until the talented Cartwright-Nethersole Com-
pany return to the rescue.
Several hundred babies will be divided off
in pens at Melbourne Exhibition during the four
last days of this week. Arrangements are of a
more luxurious character than last time, and the
infants should be in full blast when this notice
appears.
** * *
“Evangeline” eventuated at Melbourne
Opera House on Monday evening, but no per-
ceptible reason for importing this slow paralysis
of the brain from America can be divulged by
telegraph. The primeval burlesque that moulders
in an unhallowed grave was an intellectual feast
as compared with “ Evangeline,” and the average
pantomime rejects the Yankee notion with con-
tumely —a libretto of incoherent puerility, as inter-
mingled with songs, set to music, of that simple
reminiscent character which men compose
whilst washing themselves, and chortle out
from amidst the suds, the result being
a withering blast to modern civilisation and a
shock to the Darwinian theory. Even more inex-
plicable than the bringing of this mildewed
Mosaic work across tiie ocean was the circumstance
of four alleged American damsels coming with it.
Three of them are mere lightly clad nonentities,
whilst the fourth, a Miss Earl, is a star such as
may be gathered by the bushel from the London
Music-hall stage. Two male performers have also
arrived with their original parts. Fortescue, a
carefully - wigged and painted mountain of
flesh, figures in the decollete capacity of
Aunt Catherine, and narrowly escaped being
a degrading spectacle in misapplied mil-
linery. Some evidence of worthy talent may
presently ooze from Fortescue’s ton of adipose
tissue, but he did not perspire that way on Mon-
day. Even for caravan purposes this exaggerated
stranger falls about six stone short of Sir Roger
in his palmy days. A lone fisherman, described
as a household word in America, likewise pervades
the gaudy misery, contributing streaks of harm-
less dumb pantomime and one eccentric dance.
-Vs a rule, however, the lone fisherman is a deep-
lyed nuisance, sitting on a camp-stool, and his
inaudible pretentiousness is the most charac-
teristic feature of a bombastic production,
lor the rest, Fanny Liddiard graces the
feeble name part, and Gourlay, whose principal
employment is propping up the skirted monster,
manfully under his burden. Snazelle,
rurde and the stock company pop up fitfully
when the stage is not occupied by a pantomime
Wv.and other inane apparitions. The mounting
of ‘Evangeline” is effective, although discounted
y front scenes, whilst the dressing is rich and
elegant, but these accessories will scarcely mollify
audiences educated up to a still higher standard
of splendour elsewhere.
* * * at
Sprue affable American person proposes to
avect a Bunker’s Hill cyclorama in Melbourne, and
ffie tacts concerning that famous battle will be
only laid before the Victorian public. As wo
nave already been bored to the last stage of ex-
haustion by excited Yankees who talked with a
ucleous iteration about that awful military con-
-fisston, and as we have been harassed a lot by
■ ook-canvassers, and sewing-machine men, and
agents for celluloid teeth, and individuals who
travelled selling hair-restorer in a bottle, and
parties who traded in imperishable bone cuffs, and
persons who dealt in the indestructible bird-of-
treedom shirt that goes out in the dead of night,
and secretly washes itself in the back-yard, and
comes back by a self-acting process in the morn-
mg; and as all these gentlemen have clamoured
to ns in the intervals of business, about Bunker’s
Hill, we wish to make one remark, and to make
it loud. We desire to impress on the great
American nation that it was licked —horribly
licked—at Bunker’s Hill, and that it is pretty
nearly the only nation that ever whooped for a
century on the strength of a lost battle and a
great, vigorous, unanimous bolt for a place of
safety. That is all for the present, except that
we have no doubt the new cyclorama will be a
brilliant success, and a joy and gladness to all
concerned, and that the lecturer will get his facts
so much mixed that nobody will know who won at
Bunker’s Hill, after all.
** * *
“The Idler,” by the Cartwright-Nether*
sole company, has been doing good business at
Adelaide Royal. _ Olga Nethersole has made a
great stir in Adelaide. Charles Cartwright’s ten-
dency to Irvingisrn is rather marked in this play,
and his part is right against the sympathies of
the audience : nevertheless, he scores. Excelh n
support is contributed by the Melbourne cast, and
the mounting of the piece is most creditable.
“Moths” is now attracting the attention of the
devout. Wybert Reeve is now sole lessee and
manager of this pretty little theatre, and has filled
all his dates for a considerable time with the best
productions obtainable. With Mr. Reeve’s long
experience and knowledge of the tastes of the
Adelaide public, he ought to make things hum.
At Poverty Point.
Neil Burgess’ County Fair, managed by J. and C.
MacMahon, will soon introduce to Australia the galloping
racehorse effect (apparatus cost £500) in a racecourse
scene. Meanwhile Paris L’lllustratton, just to hand,
gives us a picture of the thing at local Theatre of
Vanetes; the stage has a moving floor, and three real
racehorses, with jockeys up, gallop for several minutes,
while a moving panorama at the back depicts the race-
course. Tub Bulletin described it many months ago.
Poor Paul Aubert, who perished miserably in Kevv
Lunatic Asylum, the other day, was a professor of fencing,
but unfortunately not in the Bungaree sense. He was a
master of the foil, the graces of the French school of
I’esornne. M. Meunier, Professor Miller’s father, used to
he the Melbourne dab in this line. Aubert acted with
Millie. Jeanne Andrbe and M. Munie, in their attempt to
introduce little French plays at the Melbourne Hall of
Science, then called something else, but they failed, like
the Sisters Navaro, and like Tessero’s ambitious troupe.
Good old Signor Zelman runs a high-class school of
music in Melbourne, and, with a degree of caution which
might well have been observed by a certain eminent
Italian flautist of old time, notifies in his prospectus that
“parents and guardians will be at libertv to accompany
the students both at the lessons and the classes.”
Dear Bulletin,- In your issue of 11th inst. you printed
a paragraph relating to the career of my late grandfather
(Richard Capper). In it you state that‘the residue of my
grandfather’s works would appear “in a future century.”
I should like to inform you that it is my intention at a
no distant date to publish a second volume of his dramatic
works (of which I possess the rights). Included in this
volume will be a descriptive drama founded upon events
that occurred in Hie earliest portion of Melbourne’s his-
tory, i.e., from 1835 to 1837. All the incidents in connec-
tion with the drama are founded upon facts, to one of
which my late grandfather was an eye-witness at the
time of the naming of the streets of Melbourne by Sir
Richard Bourke, then Governor of Port Phillip in 1835,
from which time, as you are aware, dates the founding of
Melbourne.—Yours, Alfd. Capper. Amess-street, N.
Carlton, 19th April, 1891.
William Rignoid has sailed per Oroya from London with
some new plays.
The company intended for Melbourne Royal under the
“ Cop in ” management sail from London by the Orient.
Florence Menk-Meyer gets more jam from the Roman
papers than was ever spooned to her in Australia. She
goes to Paris next.
James Edward Sykes, at one time organist at Hudders-
field (Yorkshire) Town-hall, arrived in Sydney by the
Britannia. It was Mr. Sykes’ idea to make personal
application for the post of organist. He comes rather
late.
The Halles give at least 45 concerts on their return.
They bring with them a new soprano, Frauiein Fillunger
(the Echo’s cable made it Salinger), an Austrian lady, one
of the crack pupils of the famous Marches!. R. S. Smythe
(and son) wifi run the show.
“Hadn’t” Chambers writes to someone in Sydney con-
cerning his brother, Haddon’s play—“A dozen Royal
Nobodies have already seen it and condescended to think
it good, as well as numberless artistic lights whose
opinion was worth having, whilst the list of duchesses
with whom we swilled champagne on the stage after the
first-night performance would make the democratic hair
of the average Sydneyite stand on end!” We could
scarcely have imagined that either of the gifted pair was
massive enough to attract a British duchess.
Charles Cartwright, the English actor, smilingly told
an Adelaide reporter that he once “got the sack” for
being incapable. “The manager who sacked me,” said
Charles, “is at present in Adelaide !” Is this Wybert
or Fred Neebe ?
He was one of those nightingale-like tenors whose
warbling of love-songs never fails to melt the female
heart. But when he was put outside a big hotel at a late
hour one night, owner only of half-a-crown, he was too
speechless to give his address. So the cabby drove him to a
suburban lock-up and they took him in. When he woke up
next morning his head was reposing on the clay-stained
bluchers of a sewer-sinker, and the bald head of an
ancient reprobate rested on his diaphragm. Soon after,
he was ushered forth to take a constitutional in “ Black
Maria.” Half the people in Sydney seemed to watch him
in—but, no matter! The bobbies thought they were
doing the swell a good turn when they put him away
from tiie roughs among the ladies. So did he at first.
Then the darlings opened out, and the “ old josser,” the
Domain “haybag” of forty years’ soaking, and the lav-
rikinness, just into her “teens,” strove who should
make him wince most deeply. “ Five bob or the rising,”
said the judge, and “ Correze,” who had only twenty
minutes to wait, thought it money well spent when he got
away at once through the ante of a kind friend.
J. H. Clyndes writes thus to a Sydney pressman:—“ I
am pleased to tell you that I have done splendidly since
my return from Australia. I had a tremendous three
weeks at the Standard 'theatre, with ‘Proof’and ‘lt’s
Never Too Late to Mend.’ My re-appearance in my old
part as Tom Robinson proved quite an event here) and
hundreds were turned away from the vast theatre nightly
(see cuttings). In fact, I should be perfectly happy here,
only I fear yodr climate has spoiled me. It has been ter-
ribly cold and foggy ! ! Oh, dear !”
It is probable that the Melbourne alligator would have
endeavoured to live a little longer had he known that a
baby-show was to be held in his vicinitv. The police are
so down on baby-farming, and it is otherwise so difficult
to lose babies.
The players in London music-hall orchestras complain
that they are expected not only to be musicians but
vocalists. They are expected now to aid certain singers
by bawling, “ Yes, you shall! ” “ No, you shan’t! ” and
other inane remarks to wake up the audience to participa-
tion in “ question ” songs.
Touring France once, Liszt had an audience of seven
only. Nothing daunted, he bowed suavely and said :
“ Ladies and gentlemen, this is a most uncomfortable
hall; therefore, if it will be agreeable to you I will have
the piano taken to the hotel where I am staying, and
there, where we shall be much more at our ease, i will
play through the programme.” The proposal was
accepted by the seven guests, who adjourned to the
hotel, where Liszt not only went through the entire
programme, but afterwards pressed his audience to par-
take of supper. The next evening, on the occasion of a
second concert, the hall was full to suffocation.
We regret to learn that Myra Kemble has again bean
seriously indisposed.
Irving intends shortly to revive “Charles 1.,” a play
which represents the “Martyr King” as a wingless arch-
angel and Oliver Cromwell as a blustering O.M.G. sort ol
person, who offers to burst up the Commonwealth if the
si rapine Charles will make him a marquis or an earl.
Eighteen years ago the gallery and pit had a vague sus-
picion that "Charles I.” was a put-up Tory job, and the
chances are that it will violently repudiate VV. G. Wills’
poetical lie when it comes to be told again. By the way,
Miss Lucia Harwood was one of the royal infants in
the original produclion.
A dismissed choir-leader revenges himself by sitting
close up to the tuneful sol-fa lot and singing so persistently
flat as to put the choir and whole congregation quite out
°f key. The parson threatened to take proceedings
against him. but found he had no legal remedy, and now
all they can do is to turn on the organ.
Gus. Harris manages the three biggest London theatres
—Her Majesty’s, Drury Lane, Covent Garden. Now, it’s
simple Euclid to say he is certain to go smash, on the
example of Chatterton, Ben Webster, and every other.
See Coleman’s “ Players and Playwrights” for how Drury
Lane, the Princess’, and Adelphi pulled Chatterton down.
About Irving in “ The Lyons Mail” it is remarked that
the original production in Paris had a happy ending, and
an unhappy ending, played on alternate mghts. The
only way to satisfy the clamour between the logical and
the sentimental. Bouoioault wrote “The Octoroon”
with the unhappy ending, but the London public made
him spoil it, and the case has been the same with Jones’s
“ Dancing Girl”—three splendid acts and a nonsensical,
sophistical fourth.
Frank Emery has a yarn of what happened once when
G. V. Brooke was playing “Richard III.” at Bolton. In
the Tower scene Gloucester says: “Go, Lovel, with all
sp°ed to Dr. Shaw! ” The rest of the sentence was
drowned in roars of laughter from a crowded house. Dr.
Shaw was the specialist of the locality*.
The day after the performance of “ Gondoliers ” at
Windsor the Queen sent a telegram to D’Oyly Carte
hoping “ the company all got home safely.” How kind
and gracious and motherly—and childish !*
R. S. Smythe, the Much-Travelled, lives again in his
son, Carlyle Smith, B.A. One of the most marvellous
sights under Heaven is to note how the young dog has
picked up all the old dog’s tricks.
John Rogers, having discarded, or been discarded by,
Minnie Palmer, has taken to himself, dramatically, one
Annie Lewis, and is once more going on the road with the
old play, which he will now re-label “ My New Sweet-
heart.” A cast-iron cheek and a hard heart will do
wonders.
Barnum’s heirs have lost a big show by not exhibiting
him ere burial. Such lack of business capacity is enough
to make the old man come hack and disinherit them.
A nauseous little paragraph concerning the Duke of
Edinburgh and Sullivan’s “ Ivanhoe ” has been going the
rounds “at home.” It seems that a strange visitor called
at the stage-door of the new English Opera House while a
rehearsal of “ Ivanhoe ” was in hand, and asked to see the
composer. A workman standing in the doorway posi-
tively refused to rake the strange visitor’s pasteboard, on
the ground that Sullivan was not to be disturbed. Where-
upon the great unknown smiled in a pitying yet gracious
kind of way, and said; “ But, my good man, I’m the
Duke of Edinburgh.” The paragraph adds the startling
information, “And so he was," and then leaves the loyal
reader to turn pale as he thinks of the unfortunate work-
man flopping down upon the cold ground to crave for-
giveness of Victoria’s son. Tiie author of that choice
bit of literature shrank from attempting any sacrilegious
comment on the situation. He just concluded with
"And so he was,” which simple statement was evidently
considered to be a stroke of paralysis in itself.
Manager Abbey, Sara Bernhardt’s herald, arrived from
America in the Mariposa.
The Turners’ Brisbane Opera House season concluded
with “Lucrezia Borgia,” “ Martha,” and “Maritana.”
The Pateys, having concluded a successful season at
Brisbane Royal, are exploring Toowoomba and other
Northern towns.
The Evangeline Troupe bursts on Melbourne like an
aloe sprouting up, or the blooming of a cabbage-rose.
Fortesouc, the Evangeline, is the champion woman-man,
a nasty sort of line mostly, in the hands of your Leons
and Saphrinis, hut Fortescue is such an outrageous bur-
lesque-a six-foot-two man, taller even than that delect-
able Gilberc-and-Sullivan woman we had lately in Aus-
tralia.
The Taylor-Carrington Dramatic Company cleared over
£lOOO during their recent West Australian tour. We
don’t publish this par. for the purpose of depopulating
Poverty Point.
Sfcanbury beat M‘Lean on Tuesday 1 c
the sculling championship. The newspapers were
beautifully “worked” in advance, and made it
appear to the public that M'Lean was fit as a
fiddle, while everything had gone wrong with
Stan bury, even his boat. We are tired, and will
now go to see a footrace.
Yosper, of the Republican (Charters
Tower-), is to be tried for “ sedition ” by a special
jury — i.e., a jury of monied men. His paper asks,
in its latest issue, how it happens that horses are
of more value in the world than men—that the
Queensland Government pays the squatters 7s.
daily for the hire of their horses, whilst the
hirelings -who ride them get only 6s. per day ?
In Chilian waters, the torpedoes have
beaten the ironclads with great slaughter. The
big ironclad will, as we always felt, disappear
from the face of the water ; meanwhile her sailors
will be, in continual tremor, like the inhabitants
of earthquake regions. America, with her
lightning cruisers and their dynamite guns, will
next year have the most powerful navy afloat; the
other fleets will be—are now, in fact—mere old
iron.
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, —ln re a paragraph in your
issue of 4th inst. regarding the death of Mr. J. M.
Macrossan, allow me to say that Mrs. Macrossan never
dispensed medical comforts (I understand this to mean
that she served in the bar of a public-house) to the Ravens-
wood diggers nor anywhere to anyone else, neither has
she ever been in nor seen Ravenswood in her life. The
fact of Mr. Macrossan having- received the sobriquet of
“ The Hatter,” which is given to diggers of a retiring dis-
position, will, I am sure, be sufficient to convince any
reasonable person that Mr. Macrossan was not in the
habit of frequenting public-houses; on the contrary (I
am now referring to both the Ravenswood and Charters
Towers diggings of which I can speak positively) ho
studiously avoided them,—Yours, &c., Ex-Ravenswood
Digger. Brisbane, 9th April, 1891.
At Callan and Son’s(George-sfcreet, Sydney)
annual exhibition of pictures, there is a very good
representative display by the N.S.W. artists.
Mr. Piguenit has met with the most decided
recognition in finding ready purchasers for some
of his pretty and artistic landscapes, the most
noticeable of which is “ A Spring Morning, Lane
Cove.” Mahony is well represented by a couple of
very clever colour-sketches, horsey f nd Australian.
Mr. J. R. Ashton shows, in our opinion, the very
best work that has yet left his easel ; “Mary
Magdalen,” a very fleshy life-study, and a charm-
ing, bright little picture, “A Ray of Sunshine,’
both in pastel, a medium which to h'm is evidently
most congenial. Mr. Lister-Lister is represented by
some clever and characteristic landscapes. Mdme.
Roth and Messrs. Hunt, Collingridgc, Minns,
Bevan, Fischer, Hanson and others show good
but not striking work. As years go on we do not
see that many of our Australian artists,, either
imported or of indigenous growth, feel the flavour
of the Australian soil. There appears to be a
lack of direct study from Australian nature, an
inability to obliterate from the mind the influence
in colour and technique of the masters of foreign
schools of pa nting, and to create a local and
original school' by. honest study of the life,
ch aracter andMenery of the land in,which we live-’.
Two pictures there are which will ever linger in
our memory ; One is Louis Buvelot’s “ Waterpool
at Colerainethe other Johnstone’S “ Off the
Track.” Each is the counterfeit presentment of a
piece of Australian life,
CORRESPONDENCE
“ J.8.M.” (JE.): What was its name, please?
... " J.Q.” (Ravensworth); We presume that your best
route to the Cape would be : First per Messageries Mari-
time to Mauritius, thence by connecting steamer; for
price write to Messageries Company, Sydney “ Werdna
Yelnah”: Have already arranged to deal with it in a
different fashion ... “M. H.” (Mossman’s Bay): No, we’ve
seen nothing of yours since “ Her Message,” which, when
repolished, appeared in our columns, worthy of publica-
tion— “ J.L.”(Drouri): “Ladies’ Strike’’not suitable..
“ Wortley Clutterbuck ” : Too much in the style of
“Linespenned in a Lady’s Album,” We wantgrit, notgush-
— “ W.T.” (Swanpool) : Your verse is not half-bad, but
the subject and rhymes are very hackneyed “ Shaugh-
raun Your “ Toils, Woo, Up and Go ” has completely
mystified us. Do you know what it’s all about?
“J. Lindsay L.” : Thanks “Doc.”: To hand
“ A.L.” (Adelaide): Received..“ F.A.M.”: Will consider...
“ J.B.”(Cunnanmlla); Whoareyou? “N. Crompton”
(Maryborough, Q.); Letter posted “E.E.A.M.”: Can’t
quite make out your letter “De Facto ”: To hand
“ Othmar ” : Not much ooneerned how Gordon spelt his
name ; either is good enough for us. Will enquire about
photo. Your ideas are excellent, but your verse is jaw-
breakingly umbythmic and your rhymes feeble
“Hughenden Man ”: Admire your spirit, but can’t use
your verse “Casque”: Such assertions, if published,
would land us in a first-class criminal libel. If the
residents want this J.P. removed, why don’t they
petition? —“J.C.”(Fitzroy): Facile descensus was the
passage of your “Census” to the W.P.B “M.'’;
“Sandflies” nicely written, but too meagre... “Wee-
Will”: “Little Dick” is not metrical ; “The Transcen-
dentalist” not of general interest “ Wombat ” : Not
bad ; wants finish and condensation. May use
“ Yaga”: No, wo don’t know you, and we don’t want to,
either, until you can find a better rhyme for "fought”
than "forgot,” or “binding” for “shining.”... “Blue-
gum”: Good enough,... “ P.D. ” (Melb.): You haven’t
hit our mark.... “H.L.” (Park): Thanks....“ J. F. Mac-
Leod ” : Have written you “ Angus MacLeod” ; Right.
.“Alfred L.” ; Too hideously English “Ben
Jemmy”: Thanks—“ Cayuga”: Thanks “V.S.” ;
The plays of “ Friends or Foes,” “ Peril,” and “ Friends’*
are three versions of Sardou’s “Nos Intimes.”
“G.R.R.”; Thanks; but previous publication won’t
matter, in this instance, as the paper is a purely Victorian
one—“W.O.”: The religious returns of the census are
all nonsense. People put themselves down in the faith of
their childhood who never enter a church and hold no
religious belief. Anyhow, the State in Australia at all
events lias no concern in the theological or anti-theological
opinions of anyone....“ W.W.S.”: In view of what is
known concerning the present ownership of Sydney
Trutu how can you expect it to support anything but a
publicans’ candidate ? Its tactics in supporting Bradley
and throwing over the trades’ candidate were only on
a par with its action in running A. G. Taylor against
the workman’s candidate for South Sydney
“ E.J. ’ (A.N.): To hand.... “ A.C.K.”: According to the
statement of a delegate the ordinary shearer does not
earn on an average more than 255. weekly all the year
round. The station-labourer is worse off by half
“DigbyGrand”: (1.) A full report of the Convention
proceedings can be had from the N.S.W. Government
printer. (2.) Yes; France has the lowest birthrate (3.)
Someone made the statement. French colonists arc,
however, very prolific, (3.) H. E. Walton played, if
memory serves right, Digby Grant, not Grand, in “ The
Two Roses,” at Melbourne Bijou. He married a Sydney
girl, played last this side the line in “Youth” and
“Lights of Loudon,” at Auckland, about five years ago.
Is now, we think, in London “Doubtful”: Will con-
sider “H.O’D.”; Will read for next week
“Fred. S.”: Thanks, but of purely local interest...
“H.G.D.”: Thanks “E.E.”; Next week “A Well
Wisher”: Who are you, and why don’t you give us a hint
as to the names ?—“Lizard”: That would be intermin-
able. The plural vole is now doomed in Australia. Why
it is even being threatened in England !... “ Diavolo ” :
Some interesting sketches of Sir George Grey’s career
appeared in Bulletin two or three months back.
“ Bruce-street, Newcastle, March 28, ‘9l.
Gentlemen, —I wish to recommend your medicine
as a blood purifier. For some time my blood has
been in a very bad condition, continually breaking
out in boils, and when I bruised the skin, I had
great difficulty in getting it healed. My liver
was also very sluggish, and I was very much
troubled with headaches. I have taken onedar
of No. 1, and nearly finished a No. 2. Beyond
freeing me from headaches and increasing my
appetite, I felt very little benefit for the first
five weeks, and then I rapidly improved. The
boils have left off corning, my hands now quicklv
heal when bruised. I have had only one slight
headache since I commenced its use, and I feel
generally toned up all over. It appears to have
eradicated all impurities from my blood, for my
skin is now clear and of a healthy colour. I also
noticed, although the boils would not heal until
the impurities were driven from my blood, they
lost their soreness within a few days from the
time I commenced taking and applying your
Microbe Killer.—l remain, yours truly, Charles
Gardner. To Radam’s Microbe Killer Co.”
Pamphlets sent on application. Head office: 40
Elizabeth - street, Melbourne. Agencies; 319
George-street, Sydney; 17 Hunter-street, New-
castle; 26 Queen-street, Brisbane. Local agents,
wanted.


f»xjlvbrm:a.ch;z;r>s
WORLD-FAMED
Electric Belts and Appliances.
As recommended and prescribed by the most
ptninent physicians throughout the world.
THE OSl¥ GENUINE OXES».
The most Simple, Effectual and Rational Cure
for Sciatica, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Paralysis,
Nervous Debility, and other nervous, muscular
nd functional maladies.
Pamphlets and full information on application.
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
|7l & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne! Allison, Bros. , 418 Chancery Lane.
BANK-MANAGERS and LAWYERS
If you have any old correspondence
in your possession, dated 1819 to
1870, all used Postage Stamps affixed thereto are of value—ranging ffom (Say) £1 each to Cd. per dozen. WE
ARB PREPARED to purchase ANY NUMBER of old Australian, Stamps for IMMEDIATE CASH, and invite
correspondence from anyone able to supply us with same. Look up your old papers, and send us samples of the
different stamps you come across. The return will more than repay you for any loss of time.
DAWSON A. VINDIH 5c CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
0 and 11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth and Oastlerkaou Street*, SYDNEY
(And at HAMBURG, GERMANY).
The Tjflndcfn '& Sydney Tea'Ctx. supply sqfoat
and farmers at wholesale prices.
The Pestoralist's Last Will.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Price Preudergast owned freehold laud of many
miles extent,
And leased a spacious tract of downs at nominal
Crown rent;
His fame was great for wealth m sheep and cattle,
and he stood
Quite at the top among the swells of Pastoral
Brotherhood.
He never from the time he first drew breatli had
tasted wine,
Or any liquor brewed to make the head and heart
combine
To put a man outside himself, his selfish self, and
fill
Him as a fool, if nowise else, with human, large
good will.
Price lived beyond the windy hills, among the
rolling downs,
And ruled his kingdom with loud oaths and
beetled-visaged frowns !
He knew he held the purse of all, and whoso bade
him Nay
He ordered forth to starve and die upon the public
way.
His men from time to time found fault with some-
thing they thought wrung,
Forgetting that for every job a crowd kept st raight
along,
And knowing this Price called them fools and
gave them one day’s grace
To clear from off the hundred leagues he called
his private place.
His son, a soft, good-natured lad, called Tommy,
fell in love
With Julia Ann, a governess, at Murphy's, just
above;
And when Price heard the story he, without a
moment's rest,
Commanded Tom to quench the flame that burned
within his breast.
This, Tommy, like the average youth, refused
point blank to do,
Aiid as in night fires grow more bright, his love
grew stronger, too.
Till, though his father’s brow grew black, ho
married Julia Ann,
And, with curses fur his bridal gift, cleared out
a banished man.
Next, Price’s daughter, Jenny, breathed her love
unto the ear
Of Rex, the youthful storeman, whose duties
brought him near,
And for this dire offence was cursed and ordered
in disgrace
To hide her head for ever from her father’s angry
fu-
ll Happened, Tom and Jenny both encountered
hapless fates;
Tom lost an arm in crossing o’er between a rail-
way gates,
A iiu Rex fell sick of fever, and in the fever’s train
Was found to have contracted a disorder of the
brain.
Then Price’s wife cried, bitterly, “Oh, husband,
be nut stone!
Our children have offended you. but still they are
our own;
Oh, be not deaf unto their cries, extend a hand
and save—
For illness is a heavy cross, but Poverty, the
grave!”
Then Price rose stonnily and cried and cursed
and smote his wife,
And told her Earth and Heaven might change,
but not his mode of life ;
Whoe’er offended, crossed him once, should feel
his hate, till death
Removed the object from bis path and drank its
latest breatli.
Thus years went by and Price fell sick, and heard
the doctors say :
“ The time is very near at hand when you must
pass away;
Arrange your worldly things, and make your mind
up to depart
To where no break-up of tiie constitution stops
the heart. ”
The lawyer came and Price proclaimed to ali to
come and hear
Him make his will, so that his words might ring
in every ear;
And Jenny came, white-faced and weak, and one-
armed Tommy came,
The mother held a hand of each and all bowed
down in shame.
And Price raised up his head, and loud and firm
his voice was heard,
Dictating to the lawyer his last wishes, word for
word :
“ I never had a man by me,” he cried, “ who dealt
me straight;
No man shall, therefore, ever gain a cent, from my
estate.
“ No woman ever was true-blue, and, least of all,
my own;
My daughter and my wife have turned my heart
into a stone ;
The thing they call tiieir feelings set them up
against my will:
Hence, while they live they now must try their
empty mouths to fill.
“ All that I own I give to be sent round from
place to place,
The world around, for ‘gallowses’ to hang my
villain race.”
The will was drawn and duly signed, and Price
lay back and smiled,
And no one dared to speak to him—not even wife
or child.
He lingered thus throughout the night and studied
words to say,
So that a charge of madness no one might against
him lay,
And priests and parsons flocked around, each
trying to arouse
Him up to be a humane man to his own faithful
spouse.
But Price lay back and grimly smiled at all they
fain would say,
Repeating “Gallows,” “Gallowses,” until the
break of day.
Just then a horseman rode along, bound outward
to the west
And said he would feel grateful if allowed a little
rest.
Before he knew the trouble which afflicted the
abode
He gave one of the pasteboard-cards be used upon
the road ;
Tiie words on it were printed in script characters,
and ran
In one straight line, “The Venerable Father
Lan-i-gan.”
Despite the sorrow in the house he was made quite
“to hum,”
And soon was told the grief that was and what
was still to come ;
And having listened carefully to all they had to
say,
He begged that they would take him to the patient
straight away.
They brought him there, and when Price tried tiro
shaven face to scan,
A mouth said, “I’m the Venerable Father
Lau i-gan.”
WEAK WOMAN.
HUSBAND (just from turn): “Well, dear, you’re feeling better? Quite a colour.
WIFE (who has hem in the hands of every doctor in town): “Yes, I had a visit from the new
doctor.”
This made Price smile again and talk of “Cal-
lows,” “Gallowses,”
And Father Lanigan went back and asked for bis
valise.
“It’s Human Nature dead ails him,” lie whis-
pered, as he drew
A phial from the clothing which the rummage
brought to view.
He went back to the sick room, filled a glass half-
full, and said :
“Drink ! If human nature’s in you, this will stir
your heart and head!”
He drank. A while he shivered ; then he opened
wide his eyes;
He gazed around the bedroom with a look of
dazed surprise;
His wife ho called unto him, Ins daughter and his
son;
He kissed them and caressed them and he hugged
them one by one.
Then he wept just like a baby, and demanded
back the deed,
And tore it into fragments, and a new will straight
decreed ;
“I was a brute,” he whimpered. “Why, my
own must never need,
Nor swagman ever known to me feel hungry for a
feed !”
A new will was drawn emt, and while ’twas being
signed they thought
The venerable Lanigan a miracle had wrought;
But that great human student, after dinner,
drank the rest
Of his phial in hot water, with lump sugar, and
true zest.
The Whirligig: of Time.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I crossed the old ford at the end of last May,
The old pub. had vanished, not even a shingle
Survived of the roof, which, in years passed
away,
Saw friendship and devilry strangely com-
mingle.
The few blackened wall-posts and panels of
fencing
That stand by the roadside, are all that
remain
To tell of old days ; a new era commencing
Has ended a gold-time we’ll ne’er see again.
Then Kate was the barmaid, as handsome a girl
As any line lady ; the smile that she gave
Had put heaps of poor fellows’ heads in a whirl,
And some poor unfortunates’ bones in the
grave.
She was worshipped, you see, by the coves all
about,
Who would fight like the devil her love to
secure ;
And Cupid, in those days, to settle a doubt,
Had a way of his own which was certain and
sure.
And Kate ! why she’d drive one insane with
her sighs,
With her pearly-white teeth and her lips red
as coral
She looked like a witch, in the depths of whose
eyes
The light sparkled best at the sight of a
quarrel.
I’ll always remember that Michaelmas morning,
When, down fro;;* the Bogong, young Archie
Mack ay
Stood joking with Kate, when, without the
least warning,
Flash Jim interfered in his coarse-speaking
way.
From Archie’s warm heart to the roots of his
hair
The fiery blood rushed, with a leap and a
hound ;
Like a flash he stood off, then a blow planted
square,
Sent Jim with a thud and an oath to the
ground.
With some terrible threats the two men closed
together,
A clinch and a struggle—Flash Jim did the
rest,
For, snatching his knife from its sheathing of
leather,
With Archie’s throat gripped, drove it into
his breast.
Flash Jim was the “ringer ’ of Moorabin shed,
And a bit of a bully—they hated him, all—
The crowd tried to rush him—he cowed them
instead
And stood panting at bay, with his back to-
the wall;
They wavered an instant, “Stand back, or by
God,” he
Exclaimed, “ who comes near me comes
straight to his death.
I’ll bury the blade of this knife in his body ;
So damn you, stand off!—let a cove get his
breath !”
Then he sped through the doorway and made
for the creek,
And the crowd with a shout followed closely
behind;
Lithe-limbed and lean-flanked, Jim could stay
for a week,
A real even-timer, he sped like the wind.
They chased him through timber, to where the
tall pines
Rose out of the sandhills, set close as a furze;
Right on to the range, where the setting sun
shines -
In a glory of crimson o’er ridges and spurs.
They lost him sometimes, till a stir of the
branches
Showed where he was threading the bracken
and fern,
And they followed like sleuth-hounds the trail
on his haunches—■
Each man as a bushman had nothing to
learn —
So hard on his track pressed the resolute band,
Impelled by a mixture of justice and passion;
And the flying man knew that lynch-law out of
hand,
Would follow his capture in summary fashion.
Archie’s mate, who throughout with a dogged
persistence
Had followed, stopped short, and without
much delay,
As he saw the tall ferns gently moved at a
distance
Not greater than ten or twelve paces away-
With tno skill that a sharpshooter picks off a
foe,
His revolver discharged—ere the smoke-cloud
departed,
A body rolled down through the brushwood
below,
Some twenty odd yards from the spot where
it started.
The flash, the report, its wild echoes resounding,
Fast summoned the crowd who, with ringing
“ halloo,”
Scrambled down to the creek, where, the victim
surrounding,
They found they had captured—a scrub-kan-
garoo.
Met bin ks I can call up the asinine change
Of expression which harassed their features
that day,
And hear in the silence that fell o’er the range
Jim’s wild peal of laughter die slowly away.
“ Where’s Archie ?” you ask. “ Well I guess I
am he.
’Neath the folds of my shirt, here, I still bear
the scar.”
“And Kate?” “Married years ago —married
to me—
And as handsome as when she served drinks
in the bar.
Here’s the landlord for orders—l’m dry with
this yabber;
Yours the same ; so is mine ; bring your own;
how he winks !
You were asking just now what became of the
stabber,
Flash Jim? Why, that’s he just gone out
for the drinks.”
T. H. ORD.
Stawell, Victoria.
The Case of Captain Dunbar.
Captain Frederick Dunbar, late of the Imperial
army, has now reached his eighty-seventh year
and has lived a life of great vicissitudes. In 1839
Captain Dunbar was invalided home after a long
residence in the tropics, the Medical Board de-
claring that his life would be forfeited with
another month’s residence in that malarial climate;
so far gone was his strength that the medical n.eu
advised the sale of his captain’s commission for
the benefit of his sons—which, as Captain Dunbar
puts it, he very foolishly agreed to, thus losing the
chancesof promotion which took place so frequently
during the Crimean war. Captain Dunbar has
lived in Australasia for many years, and has seen
some of the most stirring times known in these
colonies. He has witnessed the birth and growth
of the marvellous city of Melbourne, and would
have been one of Australia s wealthiest residents,
but for the unfortunate miscarriage of remittances
from Europe at the time of the first Government
land sale in Melbourne, the money being sent out
for the express purpose of purchasing land ; which
is at the present moment probably worth two
thousand pounds per foot!! Some years back
Captain Dunbar contracted a hernia caused by
over exertion in manual employment; a week
afterwards hydrocele set in. He underwent several
operations, all of which ended in no permanent
benefit, and the complaint finally ended in chronic
diabetes with its usual symptoms : excessive
secretion of water, aching limbs, headaches, loss of
appetite, weakness, &c. He read of the wonderful
effects of using Clements Tonic and commenced
its use, and with most satisfactory results; the
secretion of water decreasing almost simultaneous-
ly with the use of this medicine, the appetite re-
turned, and sogratifel was the captain that he
wrote to the pioprietors of Clements Tonic as
follows: “Rosewood, Ipswich, (Q.), Sept. 7th,
1890. Dear Sir, —Having taken several botdes
of Clements Tonic, I am happy to inform you
that it has resulted in a great benefit to my health.
I can now get a good night’s rest and great relief
from the diabetes which formerly troubled me so
much that 1 had to rise from bed every ten
minutes the night through, the amount of water
varying from eight to ten pints per night. It
now reduced to one pint, my appetite is good, and
I have no doubt that, with God’s blessing, a tew
more bottles of Clements Tonic will free me from
this great plague and my thanks will be due to
you. This letter being the pure truth, you, are at
liberty to publish it if you think fit. —Believe me,
yours faithfully, Frederick Dunbar. Captain
Dunbar will answer any enquiries if a stamped
envelope is sent with letter of enquity, but tne
most that enquirers can expect is that v»P«
Dunbar will say that the above account is true,
to expect more would be unr- asonable.


FINN BROTHERS & CO.
■ (Successors to Mr. E. !•’. Flanagan),
Catholic boouselli:u«, stationer.*, a,„
586 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Near Bathurst Street.)
the latest Books and Periodicals by every mail ai
PUBLISSIEB PRICES.
li!Dr Un ' LIN Freeman, Labour World, United
keland, Irish Catholic, Ave Maria, Catholic
rats, Universe Shamrock, &c., &o.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
WORMS IN CHILDREN WATSON’S gTn'Ce'u-
BKEAD WORM NUTS, a perfectly safe and certain remedy.
In an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepers, and
by the Proprietor, John Watson, Chemist, 581 George Street,
Sydney, In Bures. Is. •. by Post, Is. id.
Buy Wolfe's Schnapps by the bottle.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will make you a new man.
Tea in 201 b. and 401 b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
■ Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
How to Grow Rich. —Invest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited, 00 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE: —
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES:—
CONDON—-110 Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE —Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE • 37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE:—
Lord Click H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits
3 Months ... 6 per cent.
C Months .... 7 per cent.
12 Months .... 8 per cent.
3 Years 0 per cent.
The dividend Of 10 per cent, (the last), declared on
28th January, 1891, is now payable at the Head Office,
Pitt and Market streets.
A. MILLER
General Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
The public debt of Australia is in all
£182,000,000.
You can only abolish luxury and poverty
by democratising property— Db Laveleye.
Federation is not dead ! No ;it has not
yet been born. It has only been conceived.
Out of 34 labor candidates put forward at
the late N.Z. General election 26 were returned.
Victorian Government now contains four
kwyers— Shiels, J. M. Davies, Duffy and Turner.
At least three members of the N.S.W.
Assembly are saving up their little £25 a month
for use at next election.
Alfred Deakin is said to have declined to
join the Munro Government against the instruc-
tions of Boss Syme, of the Age.
Alfred Deakin now says that any scheme
of federation must come endorsed by the deep-
toned “ aye ” of the millions of this continent.
One Atkinson remarks ni Twentieth
Century that a tax on land-values is a tax on
the expenditures that land attracts, not on the
produce.
The old fight of Charles Jardine Don and
I leales comes on again in the Victorian Legisla-
tive Assembly, with Hancock and Trenwith as
the pioneers.
Rats ! John Haynes has announced that
he can no longer support Parkes. Parkes on his
part repeats : “ Hi do not want heither the support
hor the haiquaintance hof Mister ’Aynes !”
Jenkins, S.A. Minister of Education, told
the Adelaide clergy last week that the Playford
Government would never agree to any system of
bible-reading being introduced into State schools.
Frank Stuart was not offered the Vic-
torian Commissionership of Customs because he is
a red rag to the Flinders-Lane bull. Premier
Munro is evidently a Scotch pedlar first, and an
alleged Liberal only second.
Says the Twentieth Century :
Under the proposed Single-tax all laud of any taxabD
value would presumably be in use. All land of no taxabl
value—vacant land-would be held out of use under paper
titles. How could the moneyless, landless man employ
himself any better under that system than now !
About 1000 Irish Tory females have signed
an address “to express condemnation of the
character of Mr. Parnell.” This document is
directed to the “Christian Women of Great
Britain,” which looks like a serious job for the
postman who has to find these parties.
Rees R. Jones, M.L.A., was Crown
Prosecutor against accused unionist shearers at
Barcaldine. Is not the position of Crown Prose-
cutor “an office of profit under the Crown? ’
If so, whom do we hear yelling for Jones’ resigna-
tion of Queensland Parliamentary membership ?
The Union Jack flies over the main camp
of shearer-harassing soldiery at Barcaldine, Q.
The Australian Flag waves over the unionist
shearers. Here we have the picture of the future
presented—a Foreign Domination v. Australian
Independence. May it be as bloodless as the
Shearers’ Strike!
John Redmond, M.P., in a recent letter,
alludes to J. G. O’Connor as the only Irishman of
any position whatever who when I visited Aus-
tralia in 1883 had the courage to come forward
and take a prominent part at the first meeting
which I held in Sydney. Now, didn’t Dan
O’Connor come forward ?
Barrister Maxwell, who just saved his
candidate’s deposit at Colling wood (Vic.) elec-
tion, is a member of the Scripture League,
Melbourne. Pious enthusiasts are said to be crow-
ing over the fact that Maxwell did save his ante;
yet he polled some 80 votes less than did Jos.
Symes, the atheist, his predecessor at the bottom
of the Collingwood poll.
A Sydney Sunday paper states that Bruce
Smith has written to Premier Parkes stating that
he cannot support his Federation scheme; and
that Parkes is throwing out his grappling-irons
for a coalition Ministry on a basis of ten per cent,
ad valorem. The Bulletin prophesied a year
ago that Parkes would ultimately attempt coalition
and still adheres to the idea.
fn all likelihood Parkes originally obtained
his “ One People One Destiny ” idea from Daniel
Webster. The great American, in a speech deli-
vered in 1837, made use of this phrase : “ One con-
stitution, one country, one destiny.” This, of
course, could not suggest “One people, one
destiny.” Oh, no. Will Lady Jersey kindly re-
head her poem, “ with apologies to Daniel
Webster”?
Edmund Barton said a nasty thing in his
speech at Manly the other day: that Dibbs’
“bomb-shell ” resolution to the effect that Sydney
should be declared the federal capital was sub-
mitted to the Convention in the handwriting of
Mr. Tom Slattery, who is a Robertsonian anti-
Federationist. Mr. Slattery explains that his
share in the matter was the putting of the Dibbs’
idea into parliamentary language.
The Peak Hill (N.S.W.) people have
pledged themselves in public meeting not to
support any Federal Constitution that had not (1)
the sanction of the whole of the people of this con-
tinent ; (2) such to be obtained on the one man
°ne vote principle; (3) to contain provision foy
the election of our own Governor; and (4) to pro-
tect the rights and individuality of each State.
Public opinion is always quite healthy among
gold-miners.
Says the Saturday Reviler (March 7): —
The object of all American commercial legislation is to
do all the harm it can to foreigners, and all the good in
its power, according to its lights, to the native citizen.
In this respect it does not differ from the legislation of
most other nations—or from what was our own down to a
comparatively recent period. We have given it up
because we found it did not pay us.
It is thus that the high-priests of the Cobdenish
fetish are dynamiting their shrine. Not a syllable
about the “ moral principle.” Profit’s the game !
As the cost of maintaining each unionist
shearer in the Barcaldine (Q.) strike camp is
under six shillings per week, it will take a long
siege to starve out the unions. It cost the
Pastoralists’ Association £5OOO to send 1000 black-
legs (Melbourne Argus figures) to Queensland,
and it has cost them at least another thousand to
transnort them to various stations. It is costing
the Queensland Government £lOOO a day to keep
the blacklegs at work, and to prevent them falling
on and exterminating the peaceful unionists The
last aspect is our own idea, and is quite as
reasonable as the biased pictures of the other side.
Parkes in October, 1884, when it suited
him to oppose Federation :
My hon. friend, Sir John Robertson, who has had so
much to do in the Government of this country, and who
has sat through all our Parliaments, is evidently opposed
to Federation altogether. Perhaps throughout the popu-
lation of this colony there is no man with a more power-
ful intellect or more capacity to grasp large questions
than the present Chief Justice, and Sir James Martin has
made no secret of the fact that he is altogether opposed
to Federation. He believes Federation would he a great
injury instead of good to these colonies. Here there are
two instances of men who have occupied very conspicuous
positions in the country, who by their large influences are
calculated to lead public opinion, and who are entirely
opposed to Federation.
Now is the time, if ever, for Alfred
Deakin to become the leader of the really demo-
cratic party of Victoria. He was wise to decline
Munro with thanks ; a re-coalition witli Gillies
should be impossible, even if Gillies be not a
hopelessly fallen Lucifer ; but Deakiu’s recent
difference with the late G. D. Langridge has never
been satisfactorily explained, and, as political
parties at present stand, this omission operates
with a section of so-called Liberals. The next
general elections in Victoria should not only re-
distribute parties, but should decisively divide
parties on a straight Labour issue. As for Sir
Bryan O’Loghlen, he always manages to cover
“FOR VALOUR.”
MAJOR : “For what engagements did you get all those medals and stars!”
VOLUNTEER: “Bicycle-matches, sir.”
himself and following with a cloud of ridicule
that makes him an unpalatability and at times a
negligeable quantity in politics.
By seizing a poor excuse to avoid laying
that foundation - stone of the Eight Hour’s
Memorial the Mayor of Melbourne gave evidence
of the contemptuous stand-offishness with which
Capital is treating Labour since the recent strike.
Although the old Pioneers seem to be playing a
lone-hand in the memorial matter, it was as
champions of the Trades that they were snubbed
by Mayor Lang. Time has its revenges in store,
however. Another year or two and the “repre-
sentative” persons will be tumbling over one
another in their eagerness to pay court to the
working-man. Even as it was, such careful
politicians as Premier Munro, Speaker Davies,
and President M‘Bain stood around and smiled
sweetly while old Ben Douglass tapped the stone
with his mallet. The failure of the Loan had
probably made that wily Trinity more than ever
anxious to propitiate all parties.
Old Ben Douglass, president of the
Pioneers’ Association of Melbourne, and layer of
the Eight-Hours’ memorial-stone last week,
whose denunciation of the “new ’’trades-unionism
has been received with such acclaim by the daily
papers, appears to be as mentally blind to the in-
evitable great future of Labour. Poor old Ben
is a sample of the ancient school of more or less
cap-in-hand workman, who was wont to beg as a
great favour what Labour now sternly claims as
a commonplace right, and what Labour will
enfoi’ce by latent power if it be not conceded as a
matter of justice. Ben shudderingly deprecates
the “ new ” unionism, and boasts that the “old ”
unionism never attempted to shook public opinion
by strikes, &e. Yet he is eloquent as to the
determination with which the “old” unionists
“ fought ” for their rights. Ben shrinkingly
bobbed up his head on occasion in political
contest, but he only “fought” after the fashion
of his school, and bobbed it down again—defeated.
His wandering prattle can do no harm to anybody,
albeit the daily press has seized it as a new text
against existent aggressive unionism. Ben can’t
stay the advancing tide, and the daily pre-s is
now only decently putting the coppers on his
sightless eyes.
Personal Items.
Yon Moltke, aged 91, is dead.
Barnum died worth over a million. Moral:
Always tell the truth.
A cable states that Henniker Heaton is
very ill in London of influenza.
Gladstone’s father started him in life with
a university education and a gift of £lOO,OOO.
During Captain O’Shea’s entire married
life (some 18 years) he spent 410 days at home,
says Parnell.
Minnie Breen, whose husband died at
Berrima, N.S.W., this week, aged 23, is only 13
years of age.
The Governor of Berrima (hi.B.W.) Gaob
ex-Sergeant John Paton, holds theV.C. for con
spicuous bravery.
“The Duchess of Montrose,” remarks the
Pink ’Un, “pays her chaplain £lOO per year and
her jockey £l5OO per year.
Salomons, Q.C., is a passenger per Mari-
posa from ’Frisco. He has visited Canada to
study the Dominion Constitution.
The defence of King George’s Sound is to
cost £15.561. Purves, Q.C., of Melbourne is not
on this job, though you might think he was.
Harry Chambers, brother of Haddon C.,
is also writing plays. We are sorry to hear this.
Shakespeare, for instance, had no brother in the
business.
Mr. Augustus Morris, of Manly, Sydney,
a year ago suggested the name “ Commonwealth ”
as the proper designation for an Australian
Federation.
Queen Victoria paid £l3O a day for her
hotel at Grasse. From which we gather that
somebody makes a little out of the British Crown
occasionally.
Annie Besan.t surprises the world by
giving a circumstantial account of Bradlaugh’s
former intimate association with the Fenian
organisation.
The Forrests are not the brainiest of the
Australian explorers, but tliey are the only lucky
ones. Look at Sturt, Stuart, Burke and Wills,
and all the rest.
It is cabled that two more members of the
British House of Commons have been arrested at
a Parisian bathing establishment charged with
unmentionable crimes.
Kirkton, one of the members for Ballarat,
says he would not object to having a lady colleague
in Parliament. You have guessed rightly. The
young man is still an ardent bachelor.
Parnell, now opposed by the Irish clergy,
openly declares that he would rather have seven-
years of Balfour’s administration, with all its
faults, than seven months of priestly tyranny.
Miss Ella Ewing, the handsome Amen-
caine, 18 years old, is the tallest girl living. She
weighs 19st. lOlbs., stands eight feet high, sleeps
in a ten-ioot bed, takes a 17 glove and a 19 shoe.
Sir George Grey must be an Irishman.
He said in Adelaide: “ I believe in the Single-
Tax—but not necessarily as being the only Tax.”
Result —a wild guffaw all over the wheat country.
Sir Samuel Davenport is a candidate for
the S.A. Legislative Council. He was a leading
S. A. politician 50 years ago when Sir George
Grey was Governor, and decided ,to re-embark in
politics during the veteran’s visit.
Sir Henry Parkes having absolved Dilke,
by letter, we are now waiting for H.P.’s letter to
Parnell assuring O.S.P. of H.P.’s firm belief in
his innocence as regards Kitty O’Shea. This
would heal the present Irish quarrel.
The Australasian gives an alleged portrait
of Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, a man whose
proud boast is that he has held over 11,000
inquests. The libellous picture makes him look
like a man who has committed over 11,000
murders.
It has been discovered by James Runci-
man {“ John A’Dreams ”) that Grace Darling was
not the fairy-like beauty she has been painted,
who talked like a lady and sang like a bird, but a
stiff-built, raw-boned, round-shouldered, stolid
girl whose teeth were bad, whose freckles were
numerous, and wh so language was at once free
and obscure y local. Another idol shattered.
The abolition of the Indian Opium traffic
is agitated for, but as the Indian Government
expoits 12 millions sterling worth of opium
annually to China and elsewhere—why, you
might a» well attack the British beer-trade.
Never will an Englishman do what the Chinese
commissioner did—destroy £2,000,000 worth of
opium, to prevent his country from being
corrupted.
Somebody was recently privileged to in-
spect Queen Victoria’s bed. “ The guide drew our
attention to the hair mattress and to any number
of little strings protruding from the envelope.
‘You see,’ said the man, ‘every morning these little
things are untied, and every evening they are tied
up again, in order that the padding may be more*
comfortable. It takes her maid two hours every
day to do this work.’”
F. M. Mansel, formerly on Governor
Kintore’s staff, who was found dead with his head
crushed on a railway-line at Melbourne the other
day, was intellectually too clever for an aide-de-
camp-ship and intended to go in for politics when
he returned to England. Mansel was son of an
English parson, and very popular amongst
Adelaide people. His death is shrouded in
mystery, and the facts point to suicide.
A London paper asks (obviously apropos
to the Wales-Hirsch notorious chumship):—
Is a certain Royal residence mortgaged to a certain
foreign millionaire for £400,000 or any sum ? (And if so,
does the fact account for some extraordinary intimacies
lately very publicly commented upon?) Will the “ assets”
of a certain city firm, more or less supposed to have
“ gone under,” include a debt of £‘250,000 from a certain
personage who shall be nameless, and which sum or any
part of it cannot be got at any price?
Ploji Plon Prince Napoleon’s expiry was
edifying, somewhat recalling Carlyle’s de ; cription
of Louis XV. going off the hooks, with a courtier
putting his sword to the priest’s throat to compel
him to administer extreme unction. Plon Plon
began his defiant atheism by a roaring supper
with Sainte Beuve and Renan, on a Good Friday,
over 30 years back, fearfully scandalising Eugenie,
and making Badinguet wince. At his death bed
a cardinal persuaded him to mumble something to
an abbe, and so he was buried in church, but
probably almost the last thing heard from him
was, “I never succeeded in anything, and can’t
succeed even in dying.” He declared that he
died an Emperor adhering to the principles of the
Concordat, and fully imbued with the religious
sentiments, of the Bonapartes.
The much-vaunted Conservative “victory”
in Canada was the same old Conservative swindle
over again. Canada is sick of slippery “Old To-
morrow” Macdonald; it is tired of the unprofit-
able “loyalty ’ which is ruining its trade by post-
poning the inevitable customs union wth the
United States, and it is weary of a good many
other tilings besides. But the “annexation party ”
consists of the young men of the country, and
Macdonald disfranchised over 100,000 of them at
one jump by using the electoral rolls which were
got up more than two years ago, instead of a new
list revised up to date. Consequently, every man
who has come of age within the last two years
was not allowed to vote, for he had no chance to
register, and a lot of the men who had died since
1888 did vote, for there was no chance to take
their names off the list. It was a clever swindle,
but still the Conservatives got back to office only
by a hair’s breadth.
Premier Griffith’s impenetrability to
humour was basely taken advantage of by Con-
ventionist Gordon from South Australia—the
same man who in a mock-deferential way so neatly
castigated Parkes. Several delegates were Grif-
fith’s" guests aboard the -Queensland Government
steamer, Lucinda, and the boat passed at some
distance the N.S.W. “war-ship,” the Wolverene.
Gordon seriously approached Griffith, and said,
with perfectimmobilityof countenance: “Couldn’t
you manage, Sir Samuel, to arrange for these two
ships to fire at each other for a little while - to
oblige your guests, who have deputed me to make
the request ? It would be h'ghly educative, and
ijrivo us all a realistic idea of a naval engagement.
The N.S.W. Government would probably bear all
the cost.” Griffith was simply dazed with shocked
amazement. “My dear fellow,” said he “I
couldn’t dream of such a thing. It would paralyse
all Australia. It’s quite impossible.” Gordon
wandered away gloomily—with his tongue in his
cheek, while the other Conventionists ran behind
the funnel to laugh.
Adelaide has a perennial insolvent in one
W. E. Adcock, who ran a bic business in Mel
bourne with a branch in the Northern Territory,
and bankrupted as to the latter. The Adelaide
Insolvency Court can t be good at figures, for it
cruelly professes to want to know about a lot of
items which it argues display a leakage of some
£14,000 or so. Adcock is willing to erupt crater-
fuls of figures, but he can’t satisfy the Court,
which sent him to rusticate in the gaol over two
years ago. In every statement he makes to the
Court, Adcock’s little joke is that he is “domi-
ciled in Victoria,” though he lives in Adelaide
gaol as stated. Just before Christmas last,
Adcock applied to be liberated on bail, in order
that he might spend the festive season with his
friends in Melbourne. The Court insisted upon
very heavy bail, hut he found it, and went over
to Marvellous Melbourne for a rattling good time.
He has since returned to Adelaide and surrendered
himself; enjoys himself in gaol writing bad poetry
and worse prose, and is getting fat on his confine-
ment, which is indefinitely “ during the pleasure
of the Court.” From appearances, Adcock can
stand it as long as the Court can.


hth » rsi e, w
THE (
HEAVJo
<5 uinr> e r N O, I
Pico so Sir
] ye oi Wl"2
Six: cpil c{ I'C f'
Co r\ j ioke "ih€
ploce of M? 4-. Pe s>cy«£,
+o dre
(T* r»e RMep
. VV k at* wv£ 1 1 i yo u
r>av r e / Hor'.orcikie o r
Q "pOf'tfotl°* ?
/|~Vn> o cl<s s-{- Qe.jo e p a n"h ) QS J onr>,
|°ihQ' fo aiscl [ d (t on
# g> © i t I ,
ok cl > cot oacf^
gcf if ckah |oP * Dor-t/oi I*o '
YAT T E !>( (N &- A CL HAN Q
Qo rr> rv>o*"Nwecii.4l'\ Q-f
TS o u r ke_ •
Please 5, j
vv/cmts 7
a candle a
be Sor& io wrap
If- in fk© ‘Qee’
ns an. ne>c+ aoor> <goi"
C\f'Ooo tK r o u reod i»■>
■t4s<° "Qo® "
o
@WM INI (! ift> j V a liS! €g q “if
( w cx refer I *f Kerfs t'icbf'
c K a p s i/ve
va/1(( be able io
S Kir-TN ready
• I . <*/
i rs
'~Y£* ol+ero+.o Po^ff.Ce
\« Af ,, -- cv
° *-U« a
& <o e -2>f !oh r
■ q[, vS^Tau,
THE WEEK—IN MELBOURNE.


G• C• M*G Gov L'l' I '"'
Mfe l *oit, ei KVL»I»‘ lV “‘'
the post-office bells.
The dedicatory Inscription on the hour bell ir
as follows i —“ His Excellency the ij|arl of
Jersey, G.C.iI.G., Governor ; Hon. Dahiel
O’Ooanor, Postmaster-General, 1890. Cast by
John Taylor and Co., Loughborough, England,
to the order of Henry Daly, for the Government
of New South Wales, from designs of Lord
Qrimthorpe, Q.C., C.D., H.P.” The bells, with
ihoir maasivo iron frames for hanging, are
ready for consignment te their distant home,
and we believe they will be the largest which
have yet fonnd their Way to the Australian
colony.
• loi'drfif)' you yyj Sttyour' j
f^r
Ic-d £^SS £ ,r
UtJt¥d“i'ah , e '
!$ 2
c[oot~~
Ott /'
It appears chat the Cqmtaiseion
decided 10 ,c!cse tuc Hawsesbnry against net
'fishing, on the ground that fish were becoming
scarce. An inspector of the department, how-
ever, reported that there was no occasion to
close tha river, as flab, so far from being scarce
were very plentiful. lo order to test the in-
speetdr’e report a sort of committee, composed
of officers of the Commission, went to the
iiawucbbury. They cast a net lor fish, but
could not get a scale, and consequently agreed
that theta could be no fish in the river. They
repotted accordingly. That was ail right, and
everything seemed plain and reasonable enough
until the local fishermen ‘'gave away " the
test. They told Sir Henry Parkes yesterday
that it was no wonder that the officers oT the
department could not catch any fish, as they
hai made a cast for ground fish (that is fish
which keep close to the bottom) with s floating
net 1
/"£/?/§*/' 7*4l' T/..C/A A/- ’fae.f/ 7o£y, tc/fat tfe /’Apty ffl*.
■ *4~t. r-mr
. fsj £% OA Z:Jf/ f * r A TZ
tL>J 9 . >«V» **/*” *l j/
kese Palkc fteefyqrs ffocSfy
/fey <*opr
< T ' Ceyi'/ff-
J;hat drunkenness is not a crime,_tmt an
iniimiity, and that it is wrong that any poor man ~
should suffer public degradation for an infirmity
which, occurring with a rich man, seldom brings
any publicity or any degradation.
' Haynes has asked that all such cases may be dealt
,yj with in private or before the courts are opened to j
the public, and that sneh cases may not be made
• a public record. *
fays « SjdftJ
iff* i of iaanV months loading np to that time,
fwoUMBy opinion, before any of the vast
increases of forme of
b?£-»U.*
incteasfi of Insert llta
rp <?/-
_ ffe Sydney
l/yi tS£j<>s/fy Q>/ry/^^ny-
01* ci fTcp Ci ny optics
//~fatfcctcC
1 /Faf~ ffc />redtic/fch
/feu £ee/z.
Z out cl
///STVftu nepe-An /rtet--*
2m *- j<st y'*- h fy'y'
7 U3a-p/~ ffrcj your
(J>\ j su/ofiorf //■-*
CURRENT TOPICS.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
OO - KING STREET -00
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Kates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits
3 Years 91 per cent.
12 Months 8| per cent.
6 Months ... ... 7\ per cent.
3 Months ... 5| per cent.
B per ' ent. allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
OiSNT. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T r, RICHARDSON,
General Manager
MAGIC LANTERN BUREAU.
T*rE DEAL in all kinds of MAGIC LANTERN APPA-
vv RATUS(OiI or Limelight). We DIRE LANTERNS,
SLIDES, etc., for Lectures, hylhc NIGHT, or for any
period. We EXCHANGE SLIDES, and Sell on Commis-
sion any Lantern Apparatus. Let lures accompany all
Sets. We can supply almost every known Set or Slide, or
make any Slide to order.
Newest and Latest Sets by every Mail.
83?"" Write to ns for any particulars connected with the
Lantern.
Pamphlet and Price List free anywhere on application.
Save Money by Dealing with
“SfcflC'ST OPTIC! AM'S,”
H. S. JERDAN & CO.
(Late with Messrs. Frost and Shipham),
Opticians, Electricians, Photographic & Magic Lantern
Stock Dealers,
462 George Street, Sydney.
Write to us on any subject connected with our business.
It is no trouble to answer questions.
BITE
Ye Fishes, Bite. Fishing Nets
i made ready for use. Try our
Improved Fish Traps. We have an immense
assortment of Lines (samples sent). Every kind
of Hook, Bait->, Floats, Flies, Keels, etc. A
splendid assortment of Fishing Rods, A small
parcel of Tackle can be sent by post. We have
every requisite for fishing. EASTWAY BROS.,
111 Uedrgc-street, Sydney.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Is the coming colony. Responsible Government
is now in force. Railways and Harbour works
are to be constructed. The goldfields are proving
to be rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £25
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note.— These allotments are in selected positions. They
have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“ There is money in it.”
Pamphlets and marked plans posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
::01> PITT STREET, SVONEY.
, \V. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Society
The Australian Star, in stating, per
medium of three separate paragraphs in the same
column, that Bruce Smith, the N.S.W. Minister
of Works, has been “ excluded from his late
father’s will,” that he has been “disinherited,”
and “cut off with a brass farthing under the will
of his much-respected father,” merely displays its
ignorance of a fact well known in commercial
circles ; that when Mr. Bruce Smith withdrew
from the family concern of Howard Smith & Co.,
Limited, some years ago, he t ok with him his
fair share of the family wealth. That being so, he
could hardly expect to come in for another
“ hand.”
* * #
The public consider that, under all the
circumstances of the case, the N.S.W._ “Cove”
doesn’t gain much glory by communicating to the
press the particulars of interviews he has with
Lady Jersey, unless those interviews take place
at his own villa. However, this being a free
country, people are at perfect liberty to indulge
their vanity at the expense of their self-respect.
# * *
Billy Elton, comedian, as is pretty well
known, we believe, is a bit of a humourist. What,
perhaps, is not so widely known is that he has a
little son of about five years who attends a Vic-
torian State-school, and recently surprised the
prim female-tutor by pleading : “ Please, will you
sit me between two nice girls to make me
modest?” It is alleged that young Billy was put
up to promote this social scandal by William the
elder before he left breakfast for school,
# # *
When Bishop Moore, of Ballarat, called
into the condemned cell of Cornelius Bourke the
day before he was executed, -with the laudable
purpose of trying to make him fix his thoughts on
the next world, Bourke immediately gave an easy
turn to the conversation by asking the Bishop “ if
he had a match on him.” The Bishop evaded the
question. This convinces us that he is not a
genuine believer in the doctrine of eternal punish-
ment. If lie had been he might have told Bourke
to wait another day and he would— failing
repentance—be able to light his pipe with hi?
finger. A member of the Melbourne Presbytery,
or any other good old Calvinist, wouldn’t ha-e
missed such an obvious point. s
A well-known Melbourne architect started
connubial bliss under difficulties, last week. tin
the day preceding the joyful event he fell off a
roof, and a deputation waited upon his bride-elect
to learn whether a husband with a broken leg,
l icked back, and sundry contusions would do all
right as he was, or had he better be held over for
repairs. The lady was unanimously in favour of
the ceremony proceeding, because the fatted calf
had been slain and all her things were ready.
Alsu the death of one of her intended bridesmaids
only a fortnight previously had shown the m cessity
for prompt dealing in such matters. So the wed-
ding-bells rang out a merry peal, the bridegroom
was earned into the tabernacle by four staggering
friends, and the solemn service, interrupted only
by two fainting-fits on the part of the “best
man,” went along as usual. After the groom had
groaned “I will,” the four friends shifted his
b oken bits into the vestry that he might be duly
Mgned, sealed and delivered to the queen of his
heart, and then they carried him down the aisle
to the bridal chariot, just, for all the world, as
t hough they were bringing home her warrior dead.
No doubt the heroine ordered all things for the
best. No true Australian girl is happy until she
gets him, and if she gets part of him m plaster of
Paris, and the rest in poultices and eucalyptus oil
—why, it only proves that she wanted him badly.
# * *
In the course of pulling down the old
Svdney markets some very interesting relics of
ancient times were brought to light. These,
instead of being retained by the civic authorities
and kept among the Town Hall records or handed
over to the Australian Museum, seem to have
been distributed - among collectors. Who, for
example, got hold of the records contained in a
bottle buried with the foundation-stone 70 years
ago?
* * *
The most radiant-looking personage seen
in Sydney for five years was T ger Inglis, at the
Sydney Chrysanthemum Show, who escorted
Lady Jersey round to see the exhibits. There
were others, however, who were not so delighted.
One of these was Mr. C. M. G. who is so particular
about having his front and back names hitched
together with a hyphen. He looked askance
at the proceeding, and his private opinion would
have been well worth having.
* * *
Where were the new Mayor and Mayoress
of Sydney, on the occasion of the afore-
said Chrysanthemum Show? Two Earls or
a Countess in the hall, and no mayoral
dignitaries to bask in the light of their pre-
sence! Shades of Croesus Burdekin, how could
this happen ? Perhaps someone will ask a question
in the Council about it.
a * #
Anglican Bishop Camidge, of Bathurst, m
his pastoral address to his Diocesan Synod, the
other day, beseeches the laity thus : —“Above all,
never let your clergyman be troubled with pecu-
niary matters.” Would it fill the bill to feed
them, clothe them, lodge them, and give them no
at all? “Above all” is distinctly
suggestive in the mouth of a bishop.
* # #
The Brisbane insolvency-epidemic is, of
course, laid to the door of the strike, and not to
the sharks’ land-boom of three or four years ago.
Business in Brisbane has been for years conducted
on a rotten basis, and the strike is really a wel-
come scapegoat to long-tottering houses to whom
“ the Court ” is a haven of relief and peace.
* # *
For ballot in a Sydney club, a new
candidate for membership has been proposed.
“Is he in business, or what?” asks one of the
fathers of ihe club. “ He’s cashier in the Imperial
Bank,” repli* s his sponsor. “He’s made a mis-
take ; this is a club, not a gaol,” retorts the old
’an, cynically.
* # #
That well-known speculator, Edmund H.
Taylor, now incarcerated at Darlinghurst for
alleged false pretences involving a large amount,
was brought to Sydney Supreme Court last week
m the custody of—the gaol-flogger! to give
evidence in a civil case. Surely the unfortunate
Taylor, who is not a brute, might have been
spared that hideous indignity. Why didn’t the
authorities, while they were about it, turn over
the imprisoned man to the custody of the nose-
less executioner? Can it have been only because
“Nosey Bob ” doesn’t happen, like the flogger, to
be a gaol-warder ?
* * *
The cabled statement that a Mrs. Bailey,
of Glasgow, has left £70,000 to the Salvation
Army, reminds us that a Sydney young man
of considerable expectations was much shocked on
discovering that his old aunt, who recently died,
had left all her money to an aged sister, with the
A TRIBUTE TO GENIUS.
CONCEITED MUSICIAN (hearing a noise in the rear) : “Ah ! a bouquet ; I knew I’d make
an impression with my ‘Allegro ma non troppo.’”
injunction to be sure and leave the total pile to
the Army when she dies. The estate consists of
property now worth at least £150,000, and likely
much to increase in value.
* * *
One of that well-known ham-fat family, the
“Big Joyces,” of Toowoomba, Q., is at Mildura
(Vic.) irrigation-colony, the locals whereof
seem surprised that Bananaland can produce a
“26-stunner.” The specimen they have is one
of three brothers, all Daniel Lamberts, nearly
Gft. high and over 20-stone each. Other pecu-
liarities they possess are smo jth faces and squeaky,
treble voices, that come as surprises from such
prodigious masses of humanity. And “thereby
hangs a tale.” Once a “giant family” of fat
persons visited Warwick, Q., and proposed to go
on to Toowoomba. The three Joyces were in
Warwick and went to see the “giants.” Being
introduced to a “giant” youth, said to be 17 years
old, and weighing some 10 stone, the Joyces dis-
sembled. “Seventeen?” said Squeaker No. 1,
“why, I’m only 14; what has he got to blow
about?” “And I’m only 12h,” added Squeaker
No. 2. “ And I’m just turned 10; I’m the oldest
of us three,” remarked Squeaker No. 8. The
showman, who was trotting them around, became
agitated, and asked —“Really? Where do you
hail from?” “Natives of Toowoomba.” “Will
you accept an engagement?” “An engagement?
Not much. Why, we’ve a fine stud-breeding
place of our own up there. Besides, we’re only
chickens to half the Toowoomba p» ople. We’re
perfect pigmies to the big ’uns there. If you’ve
any notion of exhibiting this family in Too-
woomba, you’d better run ’em as dwarfs !” -The
showman that night folded up his moveable
caravan and silently stole away. He did' not
visit Toowoomba.
# # #
An Australian lady visiting England writes
thus :
We went to Portsmouth and saw the big warships
launched, getting tickets of admission to the dockyaidon
the strength of being “ colonials.” We had a splendid
view from start to finish. The Queen was not cheered at
all; she never glanced to right or left, looked as sour as
vinegar, and seemed in great haste to get the ceremony
over. Am sending a paper containing occount of pro-
ceedings.
The said printed report (Daily Chronicle) differs
somewhat from the written one, for it says :
The reception of the Sovereign was very cordial, and
she was evidently pleased with it. ..." The cheering
became louder and louder, and the Queen’s face brighter
and brighter. ... Her Majesty was conducted to her
carriage amid immense cheering.
The discrepancy is, to take a charitable view,
accounted for in the last paragraph, thus
All the arrangements of the day were excellent, with
the exception of those for the Press, than which nothing
could be more imbecile if they were not designed for
deliberate obstruction. This is not the first time of late
in Portsmouth Dockyard that representatives of the great
journals of the country have been invited only to find
that they are not expected to see and verify what takes
place.
Evidently the powers that be deem it better that
reports of such proceedings should be slightly in-
accurate, or, as in the present case, mendaciously
untruthful, than that the public should know what
actually occurs.
A Bermagui (N.S.W.) schoolmistress was
recently alarmed at a late hour by the knocking
and kicking of a wild-eyed lunatic at her front-
door. Binding expostulation vain, she, with her
sister, vacated her downy couch and departed by
the back-gate in search of male assistance.
Returning with a large-sized man, they were
staggered to find the invader of the pedagogic
peace peacefully snoring in their bed. He was
quickly ejected by the champion of lone woman-
hood, who shortly after went home, where, to his
surprise, he found the maniac from way-back
calmly sitting down to supper in his back kitchen.
* * *
About twenty-five years ago a little boy
and girl, aged about ten and eight years respec-
tively, told the Melbourne police an awful story.
They had, they said, just walked all the way from
Woodstock (about 30 miles). Their father had
come home drunk, murdered their mother with
the wood-axe and burnt the body. This yarn
they stuck to, and after it had been taken down,
troopers rode in hot haste to Woodstock (there
was in those days no telegraph)—only to find the
father and mother well, but much concerned at
the disappearance of their children. The father
informed the police that he had strapped his
progeny the day they ran away, but what had
put murder into their heads he could not under-
stand. Both these promising brats, it is interest-
ing to know, have since compiled pages of their
own in the criminal records.
* * *
At funerals such as Sir F. Murphy and
Chief Secretary Langridge, one sees empty
carriages sent by their owners as a tribute of
Respect 1 . Suppose anyone sent a dray, or a
butcher’s cart, what an insult? But a carriage,
properly varnished, escutcheoned, silver-mounted,-
is another thing in the sleight of hand which
makes up a funeral from which a sweet savor
ascends on high.
# # #
One of the droll Melbourne institutions is
the Boys Saturday Night Pigeon market. There
you will see 500 boys, each with a pigeon under
his coat, on the trade and swap.
* * *
Dusenbury last week took a Kodak photo,
of two heavy fa, hers in Collins-street (those
respectively of Madames Midas and Melba),
Cornwell and Mitchell, both contractors. Both
are inclined to grumble a little, at the chrysalis
and butterfly development of genius.
» # #
A new sassiety idea has been struck by “a
well-known London hostess,” who recently gave a
dinner to a crowd of bachelor dudes, and induced
a number of high-born angels to dress themsCves
up as parlor-maids and carry the victuals round.
This fashionable foolery was such a brill ant
success that another dinner is arranged at which
the girls are to figure as guests, whilst the chappies
appear as pampered menials in plush. By these
means Adolphus de Vere will be able to take the
servant-girl on his knee without loss of dignity,
and the bon ton belle will hug the counterfeit
presentment of Jeames in a perfectly frank and
open manner. We regard the new idea as a great
boon to the nobility and gentry, whose daughters
may from this time forward derive all the social
advantages attaching to a “good match” with
the delirious joy permeating an elopement with
the flunkey.
# # #
It is stated that the S.A. Railway Depart-
ment made Sir George Grey “stump up” his
train fare when entering that province. If this is
true then it is a disgraceful thing that while
English Iprdling speculators who come to the
“ Kawlinies ” to increase their bank balances are
franked over thelir>“«.the great democrat is treated
otherwise.
* # #
A large number of ladies who visited
Campbelltown (N.S.W.) encampment declared
that Captain M‘Neill, of the 4th Hus-ars, but
at present attached to the N.S.W. cavalry at a fat
screw, was “ the handsomest man they had ever-
seen.” Some men won’t admit the gallant cap-
tain’s claim, but that, of course, is mere preju-
dice. Butting aside his claims to manly beauty,
he certainly is just the biggest “ to# ” in' the Aus-
tralian military service. His full-dress tunic is a
marvel, his undress ditto is trimmed with
astrachan, and his mess waistcoat is completely
covered with gold embroidery. Mentally he is
understood to be not quite equal to Shakespeare,
but, perhaps, it would hardly be wise to tell him
to to his face, for he looks six feet-two, three, or
four, in his socks, while on horseback. The captain
is said to be married ; the event having occurred
some time before he knew he as coming to
Haw-aw-stralia, and lias an amiable weakness for
singing hunting and bacchanalian ballads in a
very pipey voice and doncherknow style.
# it -»
An American girl with a good figure, who
has an extremely slender waist and laces it to its
possible limit, at a recent ball wore a white kid
bodice. Thekid had been damped and then sewn on,
so as to have no visible fastening. The result was
that after sitting in a warm room for two hours her
figure was as neatly encased as if in a tight-fitting
glove. The same damping process was followed
with regard to the tiny white shoes, which were
made to fit her bare feet tightly, and thus ensure
a very good fit over stockings. She did not un-
dress for the two days, resting on a sofa for the
night, and wearing a thin dress over her white kid
bodice in the day. She was “immensely ad-
mired. ”
* * *
In a recent English baby-farming case it
transpired that a woman who had never had any
children passed off a “ bought ” baby upon her
husband as his own. She lay up for the occasion
and fooled her husband so successfully that until
she confessed, the day before attending court as a
witness, he w’as not undeceived.
* * *
Mr. Poet Southey somewhere mentions
that in days gone by the Mayor of Leicester used
to be chosen by a pig. The candidates sat m a
semi-circle, each one with his hat full of beans in
his lap, and he was elected Mayor from whose
hat the pig ate first. A modification of this civic
custom, The Bulletin notices, widely prevails
4o this day. The Aldermen’s vote is almost
always cast, for the man who has most swill in hie
trough and is willing to give it away freely.
Two facts are much in evidence at the
N.S.W. April Assize Courts. First, that the
number of capital offences is without precedent
for many years past, and further that juries will
not find on the capital counts, but wriggle out
on the minor charge if they have to convict.
Murder is toned down to manslaughter, and rape
discounted to assault with intent. Juries won’t
find guilty on now capital charges once in ten
times that they ought, nor will they until capital
punishment is numbered with the hasbeens.
# * #
The captain of the ship Hollingwood,
which recently touched at the Pitcairn Islands,
says that the youngest men in the group enquired
from the sailors what was the size of a full-grown
horse. As they have never seen horses at Pitcairn,
there is no local need for gaols.
* * #
At Zeehan, Tas., recently a Progress
Association was elected by vote. Next day a
newly-fledged member was busily engaged in play-
ing “ two up ” in the main street, the centre of an
admiring crowd, while strict watch was being kept
for the man in blue.


WORTH r IT'S WEIGHT IN GCLD!
WATSON’S
r 'ooling-and Stro urh
tlcjiinp KVK 1,0-
|XIOX, for all disea
_ _ cs of tlie Eyes, more
particularly Sandy Blight, Inflammation of the liyesand
Eyelids, Weakness of Sight,&c.ll gives
not only immediate relief in the very worst
oases' of Sandy Blight* but effects a per.
manent cure in a few , days,
Price, Is 6d per Bottle.
PREPARED ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
Chemist, ,581 (iiorne Street, Sydney.
A.ND SOLD BY ALL iIEsPKCXABLK STOli KK KM’ KBS.
EYE
LOTION
Lriviv the London & Sydney Tea Co, one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
Not a particle of calomel, nor any other dele,
tenons substance, enters into the composition of
Ayer's Pills. On the contrary, this medicine is
carefully compounded from the curative properties
of purely vegetable substance. Try it.
Try Colemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bla don’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. C. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
“ Assam,” “ Cup,” and “ Hindoo ” Blends, of all
storekeepers, wholesale, Pitt, Brown & Co., Syd.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
!Mj Bathurst-street, Sydney. _ ■
“Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Tlie London & .Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
[ to any Railway Station
['. or port in N.S.Wales.
p p
Packed in
go-lb- and 40-lb. Cheats-
Price:
1/6,1/9, 2/-, & 2/6 per It-
" Write to us for
Samples, Post Free
lu Cootamundra (N.S.W.) borough, the
number of males and of females is exactly equal-
-1015 each. One man, one mash.
# * #
“ And what da you think the plaintiff did
next, gentlemen ? He used an oath, gentlemen
an oath so vile, so villainous and revolting—an
oath so immoral and blasphemous, gentlemen,
that if I were to try to repeat it my lips would
rebel against its syllables and refuse to voice so
hideous and horrible an expression. What do
vou think that oath was, gentlemen? It was:
‘Well, I’ll bed d.’ Think of that, gentlemen!
Extract from the speech of the only orator at the
N.S.W. bar. And it reminds us that once when
the" late David Buchanan was addressing a
Southern jury their foreman interrupted the
oration by asking : “Your Honor, are we obliged
to listen to this rot ? ”
« * *
The Melbourne trams in 1889 carried
44,556,404 passengers, equal to about 50 trips per
head of its city population, or £556,955 in hard
cash.
* * *
Gov. Hopetoun is disillusionised. Where
now are the gorgeous flunkies and the absurd
carriages ?
* # *
Have you ever noticed that when a child
is born unto a clergyman the religious papers
invariably speak of the infant as “a little son
or “ a little daughter ” —as if to palliate the
offence? #
Something worth seeing was that ceremony
at Melbourne railway-station when Grey, of
Maoriland, and Munro, of Victoria, arrived from
the Convention. There was a shouting multitude
to welcome Grey, and the old pro-consul
looked like a man about whom a nation might
reasonably enthuse. But, as for Munro, he was
the ideal of a bagman who come back from an
unsuccessful trip, and as he jammed his hat down
over his commonplace head and bolted tor a cab
with his samples in his hand, he looked a very
miserable bagman, and one that travelled tor a
firm in an exceedingly small way of business.
,5* * *
muiioer of exuoorant persons, male
and female of their idiotic kind, in a certain Mel-
bourne suburb, decided to give a surprise party in
the house of a mutual friend the other evening.
They arrived to find that another surprise party
had got in ahead of them and was in possession of
the house. He was a bailiff. Some of them then
began to see that their visit might be construed
as an indelicate intrusion on the privacy of
domestic life, but two or three felt the imbecility
of their position so keenly that they clubbed
together and actually bought out the bailiff and
held their party in the house after all. Their
host was geniality personified and entertained
them royally on their own provisions and liquor
till dawn, with velvet foot, came steal ng o’er the
eastern hills and brought the milkman whopping
on his rounds. It was only discovered by accident
a few days afterwards that the whole thing was a
“plant.” The impecunious one had got wind of
their intentions and induced an acquaintance, not
known to any of the party, to personify a bailiff,
which he did with great success, as previously
stated.
We hear some curious statements occa-
sionally as to the methods adopted to obtain
apparently influential names upon the Boards of
management of public companies. Here is a fact
for which we can vouch. A prominent citizen,
holding a seat upon the Board of one of the prin-
cipal Australian Life offices, resigned, as he was
going to England. An emissary of the office
waited upon a certain M.L.A. and offered him a
seat at the Board, with the usual fees, if he would
assure for £lOOO. Now, this M.L.A. s “risk
had been refused more than once, as he was con-
sumptive, but the emissary said he would
guarantee that their doctor would pass him. The
M.L.A., to his credit be it said, declared the
fact. *
-luo uurmg and adventurous trip of
Governor Kiutore across the continent is, we
learn from the daily papers, progressing favour-
ably ; in fact, “ doing as well as can be expected. ”
Mr. Todd “ holds daily telegraphic conversations
with his Excellency.” Happy Mr. Todd ! Kintore
is also kept posted up in all latest scandals, home
and foreign, also, the name of the latest British
M.P. who has bolted to avoid a prosecution ; and
the state of health of Her Most Gracious. He
has a field-operator with him, so that the line can
be tapped at every convenient shackle that is
passed. What beneficial result is to accrue to the
Territory from a new-ehum with a raw Scotch
accent travelling along a road constantly traversed
by teams and line-repairers is hard to fathom. He
might as well travel on an exploring expedition
from Sydney to Parramatta. When the late
Duke of Manchester paid that portion of Aus-
tralia a visit, he had several little business specs
in his pocket. Has Kintore the same ? The
Northern Territory has long been the grave of
defunct syndicates and moribund companies; is
the noble Earl going to resuscitate some of these
and place them on their staggering legs once more?
So far, the only .object achieved has been the
banqueting of the Governor by the Chinamen of
Port Darwin, which, however gratifying to the
recipient, is scarcely fraught with much in-
terest to the rest of Australia. The vice-regal
sympathy with Mongolian disabilities will not
meet with much response in Australia proper. So
Kintore proceeds on his exploring expi dition along
a main road, and the Elder expedition starts to go
over country which is now almost equally well
known; and the sun of Australian exploration
sets in clouds of ridicule.
* * *
Lord Justice Bowen, in an essay on legal
history, remarked that, while the old Court of
Chancery was an almost unrivalled instrument
for the discovery of truth, it had, however, one
drawback; “The truth was seldom discovered
until everybody interested in it was buried.
There is a Melbourne citizen ess (she bears an his-
toric name), living in Balaclava, who will get
£150,000 when a suit which dates from Bingham’s
Chancellorship is settled. She is 73, and “theold
forms ” rule the procedure in the case, so, by the
time she’s 130, she expects to be told she may
expect her money in 20 years.
More “ schduffing.” “ Kallara ” writes
of a time when he was shearing at W. Station
and the Scotch cook getting drunk, Wa Tee was
engaged as the only possible substitute. “ Kallara ”
had swelled head bad first day of Wa Tee's reign
and lay in his bunk all the morning. What he
saw was Wa Tee making rolypoly pudding. All
went along slick, till Wa Tee suddenly stopped,
looked round, scratched his head, muttered
“Wotfoh? No savee. All li!” dashed to his
bunk, pulled out a big heathen shirt; rip went
the same, and before “Kallara” could utter a
swear-word the rolypoly pudding and about half
the Chinee-shirt were in the pot mixing their
mutual mellownesses according to chemical laws.
# * #
A not unkindly-conceived paragraph which
appeared in this paper some weeks ago incidentally
mentioned that Mi rams’ counterfeit presentment
still remained prominent over the Federal Coffee
Palace entrance in Melbourne. The present writer
first “had his attention called” to the circum-
A CRUSHER FOR JOHN.
HUSBAND: “ I see the Government has decided to appoint a Royal Commission to enquire
into the relations between employers and employed.”
WIFE: “ I’m astonished, John, at your mentioning such a matter to me.”
HE (feebly) : “My dear, I don’t quite understand.”
WIFE (in sepulchral tones): “I was thinking about your relations with that last hussy of a
parlourmaid.”
stance with the arrival of The Bulletin in Mel-
bourne towards the end of the week, and, whilst
the medallion referred to was to be seen on the
following Monday, Tuesday only left remaining
the traces of the iconoclast! At this day oyer
the main entrance one may see a blur which
might indicate that what used to be so pro-
minent there would not wash clothes, or that
when the little founder of a gigantic frost in the
name of Temperance fell upon evil days about the
Premier Permanent matters, all those whose
names stillremainenoraved on the foundation-stone
either could not or did not prevent the indignity
alluded to above being perpetrated. It is one
thing to be in the know at boom-time, and quite
another to face the collapse.
* * «
Mem. for the consideration of the Com-
mercial Banking 00. of Sydney. At Kiukiang,
China, recently, some forged bank-notes were
refused payment by the manager, who was there-
upon promptly brought before a magistrate. T- his
Solomon ruled that, since the writing and marks
on the false notes were so like those on the regular
bank-notes that ordinary people could not dis-
tinguish between the good and the forged, the
bank must meet them ! Here one is supposed to
laugh. Reflect a little, though, and the decision
is not so cranky as it at first appears. Why
should not the law insist upon specially-privileged
chartered banks issuing notes which cannot be
so readily imitated as to deceive ordinary people?
'# # •
Someone who badly wants a night s rest
and evidently means to get it, has, at Goulburu,
N.S.W., just poisoned 200 dogs belonging to the
general public.
Apropos to a variety of things, pas cost
3s. 6d. in Birmingham tiU the city purchased H e
works; now it is sold at 2s. 3d. per 1000 cubio
feet. „
» •
Solomon Rosenthal, a master Tailor of
Brisbane, giving evidence before the Queensland
Show FactoriS. »1 Workshop. “f
said that his experience was that nine out
ten journeymen tailors are drunka >. , ,
.wealing to Mr. Rosent ~l
aforesaid, is a legitimate arrangemen y „
honest, respectable men take their woi^
The manager of Orange (N.S.W.) branch
of the Bank of N.S.W. informs the guarantors of
Trinity Church (Anglican) Building 1 undl mi that
town that unless the church overdraft of £3225 be
at once paid a writ will issue. There seems to ho
considerable friction between the 13Jivmg
guarantors and the parson (Rev. C. O. Dunstan),
and the latter remarked at a recent adjourned
Easter meeting—“ If you work together to pay
off the debt, you can then hate me as much as jou
like ” -
The Little Sisters of the Poor—a Mel-
bourne Papal organisation —houses Protestants,
and has built a Northcote Retreat, costing
£30,000. Very good, in its way, but really we
don’t want this kind of thing, any more than Italy
and Spain. The Little Sisters are excellent, but
big, fat men get meals on the strength of them.
# # *
Annie Claxton, a Melbourne maiden with
a heart bowed down, has just obtained an order
for thirty shillings a week, with two guineas costs,
from the ex-object of her idolatry. He bears the
misleading name of Frank, and before they left
of? looking at the moon together, and wondering
what star would be their particular brick villa
when love becomes immortal—in those happy,
happy times he borrowed £2O from Annie as a
token of her affection. Frank cooled down in due
course, and Annie took proceedings with the
result aforementioned. Her sad, reproachful ex-
pression probably stood her in lieu of any I O U’s,
otherwise the young man would scarcely have
alleged that “plaintiff proffered him the money.”
But Frank was very properly “reprimanded by
the Bench for his manners,” and withdrew from
court in a crushed condition. —
Prayer of a Victorian Salvationist, as
reported by the daily press “ Lord have mercy
upon my poor dear wife ; humble her, Lord ; bring
her to her knees ; ile her knee-jints, Loi’d; ile ’em
with the ’ile of Patinos !”
# * *
Some sinful companions once induced the
defaulting ex-bank manager, Bradley, to go to see
the pantomime. He stayed till the ballet-girls
came on, and then left in horror. It is pot known
exactly what his financial vacancy then totalled.
# * #
“Never to late to mend” is the inscrip-
tion on one of the Melbourne trades banners.
Ob, Orange Church of Trinity !
Beware the curse of tick ;
Release from pawn, Divinity,
While Dunstan fights Old Nick.
OWED TO ANNIE.
Ah ! Annie, in the days of old
You gave to Frank the yellow gold,
Nor cared much how he spent it—
Enough that he was all your own,
And when he wished to raise a loan.
Without a groan you lent it.
He loved you so, or so he said ;
You never asked to be repaid,
That notion you derided :
For was ho not your other life
From whom, when you became his wife,
You ne’er could be divided ?
Your face upon his bosom hid,
You anted-up each little “quid ” ■
And never felt you missed it;
The little hand that held the brass
He fondled in his paw, alas !
And, Judas-like, he kissed it.
Methinks we see you from your gown
Produce a gleaming half-a-crown.
And beg him to absorb it,
The while that Venus up above-
Sweet sympathetic star of love—
Progressed along her orbit.
You put your trust in Franky then,
You little knew the ways of men—
How mean they are and grasping;
You gazed into his god-like eyes,
And, as he told the good old lies,
With happiness were gasping.
But O ! there came another day :
He parted, but he would not pay
The money you advanced him.
You found it was the chinking pelf
And not, and not your little self
That formerly entranced him.
His tender heart grewjnighty tough,
He kept on “ sticking to the stuff ”
(With which the Devil wins man),
He left you weeping in the lurch,
He would not take you to a church,
Nor yet to Mister Kinsman.
You brought him up before the beak,
And thirty “bob” each blessed week
Must Franky now be sporting.
When spooning in the days sublime
You counted not upon a time
When you’d go county -courting.
The Higher Life.
As a writer un social topics, in a style that is
elevating in thought, as well as elegant in diction,
Mrs. Lynn Lynton has achieved a decided repu-
tation. In her article on the religion of Self
Respect in the New Review she makes a bold
but justifiable attack on the money-grabbing
tendency of the times. She seeks to awake to
new consciousness the moral sense of the apparent
worthlessness of mere gold-worship. “ After all,”
she says, money is not the end of life, for when
death comes our money is of no avail. This
rather is the true end of life; to try to lead a life
of happiness, not of pleasure ; to do right because
it is right, to do right even though it may appear
to other people wrong, even though it may be
contrary to all accepted maxims of our com-
mercial world. Do right regardless of what
people say, and, if necessary, defy society. We,
of to-day, boast of our liberty, but we are the
most miserable slaves the world has ever seen.
In every little detail we are mercilessly ordered
by these two tyrants —Custom and Society.”
This is, if merciless, to a great extent too true,
and it is also true especially of our own land, but
there are large numbers, and the numbers are
constantly increasing, who think for themselves,
who will no longer be content to pay slavish obedi-
ence to the mandates of Custom and Society.
They will not believe what their intelligence
controverts, simply because “ everybody says so;”
they will not, do what does not seem right,
because “ everybody does so.” They swing out
from the beaten paths of creed and custom to find
“greener woods and pastures new” of thought
and action. So come to tne world new inventions
to ease the burden of labor, new remedies to cheat
the yawning grave of its victims, new and better
notions of existence in the life wh'cti is to come.
If there were no original thinkers the sun would
still circle through the heavens, but the world
would stand still. There are medical men who still
cling to the “ bleed and blister ” theory ; there are
some who pooh-pooh at the idea that Warner’s
safe cure is a specific for kidney disorders, solely
because it is a proprietary remedy—they are back
number editions. The most intelligent of the
profession, men like Dr. R. G. Gunn, of the
Medical College of New York, do not hesitate to
to recommend it, and use it in their practice : for
as Dr. Gunn says in his published book, “the
ingredients of the remedy are among the most
valuable of Materia Medica.” He also declares
that he knows the medicine is used by leading
phvsicians. but they will not let their patients
know they employ it. Mr. Hugh Frazer,
director of Frazer’s Gold Mining Co., Yilgarn,
W.A., testifies as follows Perth, West Aus-
tralia, 3rd January, 1891.—Two or three years
ago, when subjected to the privations of a mining
prospector, I was taken ill, pains invaded all parts
of my body, and kidney disease, with fever and
ague set in. I was also seized with cramps and
shivering fits, and my sufferings became so
intense that I thought I would sink under my
afflictions, and I fully believe I would have done
so, but for Warner’s safe cure which promptly
relieved the most distressing symptoms. I took
in all eight bottles of the medicine, and I can
vouch that through its agency I recovered, and
now I feel a new man, mentally and physically.


The Commercial Agency
Trading & Banking Co.,
Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1874.
CAPlTAL—Authorised, £500,000.
Head Office:
379 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Sydney Arcade).
NEWCASTLE BRANCH—HUNTER STREET.
Chairman of Directors :
J. E. TONKIN, Esq., M.L.A.
Make advances on Approved Mercantile, Agricultural,
and Pastoral Securities, Negotiate Mortgages, and transact
all usual
BANKING BUSINESS.
Special Facilities Accorded to Mercantile Clients.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED
at the following rates of interest:
12 months .. .. .. .. 8 per cent.
0 months .. .. .. .. 7 per cent,
8 months and Current Accounts . 5 per cent.
Payable Quarterly, Half-Yearly, or Annually.
Depositors of 12 Months Renewed Share in Bonus out
of Profits of the Company.
JOHN H. NATHAN, General Manager.
An incident that was like squash in the
desert or cold beer in a great thirsty land took
place the other day. There was a gentle little
maiden walking along alone—a bashful demoiselle
with big, wondering, dreamy eyes and dainty cos
tume, and she carried her purse in her hand after
the manner of irresponsible womanhood. Pre-
sent.y she dropped the purse, and a shiny dude
who was passing leaped to pick it up for her. He
was so quick in his movements that she didn’t
reahse her loss till she saw him with the purse in
his hand, and then she hurriedly resolved that he
was a pickpocket, and brought her parasol down
with a orash'Upon his hat. The rest is too painful
for description. By the time he managed to
explain, he was whacked in eight different places,
and the girl was hot and red and flustered, and
her calm, dreamy eyes looked as if they belonged
to a carnivorous animal rushing at raw beef. She
went away at last perspiring and indignant, and
with her mouth open, panting violently, and
peace reigned once more.— Cockney.
Km Throughout the World.
BRITISH
ARGOSY
BRACES.
-f
A Lasting Favourite with all Wearers-
Patentees & Sole Manufacturers for Great Britain
and the Colonies,
W. Blenkiron & Son,
123 WOOD STREET, LONDON.
Amusements.
XHIBITION BUILDING
MELBOURNE.
GRAND NATIONAL BABY SHOW.
WEDNESDAY, 29th April; THURSDAY, 30th April •
FRIDAY, Ist May ; SATURDAY, 2nd May. ’
BRIZES, £4OO. PRIZES, £4OO. PRIZES, £4OO.
Awarded as follows:
Class A.—Baby Girls, from 3to 6 months old. Class B
-Baby Girls, from 6 to 12 months old. Class C.—Baity
Girls, from 12 to IS months old. Class D.— Baby Girls
from IS to 30 months old.
Class E.—Baby Boys, from 3to 0 months old. Class F
—Baby Boys, from oto 12 months old. Class G.—Baby
Boys, from 12 to 18 months old. Class H.—Baby Boys
from 18 to 30 months old.
Ist prize in each class, £lO ; 2nd prize in each class, £5 ;
3rd prize in each class, *3 15s. Twins, not over 21 years—
-Ist prize, £lO ; 2nd prize, £5 ; 3rd prize, £3 155.“
TRIPLETS—A Valuable Special Award.
CHAMPION PRIZES, £5O.
£25 for the Best Girl in the Exhibition.
£25 for the Best Boy in the Exhibition.
SPECIAL AWARDS
To the value of about £2OO have been offered to the com-
mittee of management by leading business people in Mel-
oourne, particulars of which will be shortly announced,
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies wishing to exhibit their children must, at time
of entry, clearly fill in the form provided for that pur-
pose, and which may be obtained at the Office, Exhibi
tion Building (Nicholson-street entrance).
Entries must be made, with the Secretary if possible
prior tosp.nl. on the 22nd April. For the convenience
of parents residing in the country or in adjoining
colonies, entry-forms will be posted free on application
The Committee have engaged a Special Staff of Trained
Nurses, who will see that every attention and care is
bestowed upon the children and their parents, guardians
or nurses during the Exhibition.
Certificate of registration of birth must be produced to
the judges.
The judging hi the several classes will be controlled by
a committee consisting of prominent medical gentlemen.
The awards for the Champion Prizes and Special Prizes
will be made by public vote. Every person paying for
admission to ■ the Exhibition Building will receive a
ballot-paper, upon which they can vote for the children
they consider entitled thereto. This ballot system will
be Controlled. by a committee, to be elected by the exhi-
bitors themselves.
The committee, which consists of prominent medical
specialists, intend giving lectures every afternoon and
evening to mothers on “Nursing and the General Treat-
ment of Children,” and will distribute a pamphlet for the
guidance of parents.
The limited number of entries are rapidly being
received, and early application is necessary.
Oil behalf of the Committee of Management,
T. G. HAMPTON, Secretary.
LYCEUM THEATEE and HOTEL,
now in course of Erection,
IMTI + STREET 4- SYDNEY.
I'or to Lease same Separately, apply to
W. T. HUSTON,
Royal Park, Willoughby, SYDNEY.
MEfet'ALEE’S Musical,' .Educational, and General
Agency, 55 Hunter-st., over Cons. Music 11 til!
t. Concerts organised. Business Management arranged,
■<rtistS- engaged, &n. Send for Circular with particulars.
Furniture, etc.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
COMPLETE HOUSE FURNISHERS,
UPHOLSTERERS, IMPORTERS, AND
MANUFACTURERS,
608 George Street* Sydney.
New Goods for Complete Furnishing for
Villas, Cottages, Hotels, Mansions, &c.,
Arriving every week,
• And turning out of the Factory every day.
FURNITURE DEPARTMENT
John Lawler and Sons hold a large and
varied Stock of CABINET FURNITURE
suitable for all classes, and being thoroughly
x’eliable can be highly recommended.
DRAWING ROOM SUITES in handsome
Tapestry and rich plush borders, 9 pieces,
from £8 10s. to £3O.
AUSTRIAN SUITES, covered in Tapestry or
Plush, from £5 to £lO.
DINING-ROOM SUITES in Leather, Cloth or
Hair Seating, from £lO to £lB 10s. In REAL
LEATHER, £l6 to £45.
RICH AND MASSIVE SIDEBOARDS, with
Plate Glass Backs, in Cedar, Walnut and
Oak, prices ranging from 60s. and 70s. up to
£3O.
HANDSOME early ENGLISH CABINETS
with Bevelled Plato Glass, in splendid style,
from £5.
BEDROOM FURNITURE, in full suites, in
Ash, Walnut, Pine and other Woods at all
prices.
7 Drawer Cedar Chests of Drawers, from 455.,
525., 605., up to 120 s.
7 Drawer Pine Chests of Drawers, from 40s.
up to 100 s.
Cheffonier Safes, from 455. to 70s.
All other furniture in
Immense Variety and for Every Place
AT EQUALLY LOW RATES.
Bedstead and Bedding Department :—
In this Department we stand
SUPERIOR AND ALONE
We are original manufacturers here, and whether
to tiie trade or the general public we offer excep-
tional value. Just note :
Our own make, Woven Wire Mattresses
OF STEEL WIRE.
Size : 2ft. 3ft. 3ft. 6in., 4ft. 6in.
Pricei
p
BLACK & BRASS Half-Tester BEDSTEADS.
An immense assortment to select from;
Prices, 205., 225. 6d., 255., 305., up to 100 s.
SPLENDID BRASS & PEARL BEDSTEADS
full size, £6 10s., £7, £B.
ARTISTIC BEDHANGINGS, in extra line
cretonne, white sateen drops and rich fringe,
festooned design, from 305., 355., 405., 505.,
605., 70s. upwards.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, with cushions, 255.,
325. 6d., 50s.
COTS, 205., 225. 6d., 30s.
BEDDING re-made at moderate prices.
! Carpet and Floorcloth Department :—
This Department is well supplied in all re-
quisites of the trade. The cutting and fitting
of Carpets, Linoleums and Floorcloths re-
ceives special attention so that our customers
have no loss. This is not so in every place,
TAPESTRY CARPETS range in price from
! Is. 2d., Is. 4d., Is, fid., Is. 9d., 2s. up to 30s.
BRLSSELS' CARPETS range in price from 35.,
3s. 3d., 3s. fid., 3s. 9d. up to 4s. 3d.
VELVET PILE CARPETS, from ss. upwards.
LINOLEUMS, from the best factories in England
and Scotland. Full pitch brands and real
cork fabric. Prices from 2s. to 4s. per square
yard.
FLOORCLOTHS, thoroughly seasoned, from fid.
up to 3s, 9d. per yard.
CURTAIL, Tapestry, Silk and Art, from 10s.
to fiOs. per pair.
uACE CURTAINS, from 4s, fid. up to 50s. per
pair,
TABLECOVERS Tapestries, Hair Seating,
Cretonnes, Trimmings, Fringes, etc., and all
Upholstery Goods.
■»
Furnishing Ironmongery and China Department; —
BREAKFAST SETS, from 195., 225. fid., 325. fid.
DINNER SETS, from 18s. fid. to 70s.
TEA SETS, from 10s. to 2os.
BEDROOM WARE, from 7s. fid. to 255.
KITCHEN FURNITURE in every variety.
BOILERS, COPPERS, MANGLES,-STOVES,
KNIFE CLEANING MACHINES, etc.
John Lawler & Sons
Beg respectfully to invite Intending Purchasers to
visit their Establishment, compare prices and
decide for themselves. Estimates given.
SOS CKBOZRG-IE STREET,
SYDNEY;
Amusements.
MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager .... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 8. Carriages at 10.45.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
IMIIR. G-. IK-TO-ZEsT OLID
and
HER MAJESTY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY,
in the
Spiritualistic and Supernatural Drama,
Tlxe Corsican Brothers
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
(CRITERION THE AT RE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicauit
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.30.
LAST TWO NIGHTS I LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of the
Brodgh-Boucicault Comedy Company
in
Ernest Warren's Comedy, entitled,
IVIOIDjEIIR-IDT WIVES.
SATURDAY, MAY 2-“ IMPRUDENCE."
Prices ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
■TiH EATRE ROYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
L ndor the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROYE.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, will he Produced
XjOucloml Uay by J3a.y,
By Messrs. Situs and Barrett.
Prices of Admission—ss., Bs. and ONE SHILLING.
OOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Lessee ... Wm. Larmour.
* 1001—Attractions Every Day!—1001 &
Varied Entertainment every Saturday Afternoon at i.
Select Sacred and Classical Concert every Sunday
Afternoon at 1 o’clock.
SELECT QUADRILLE ASSSEMBLY
Svery Wednesday Night from 8 till 11. Ingham’s String
Band. Double Ticket, Is. 6d.; Single, Is.
The Wild Buffaloes, the Herd of Spanish Donkeys, the
Kangaroos, Emus, Monkeys, Aviaries, Talking- Parrots
Eagles, Ponies, and the Finest Collection of Fish in Aus-
tralia are sufficient to repay a long journey to see them.
Visitors come to Coogee for a Pleasant Day.
GRIFFO v. MURPHY for Championship of World. Look
out for Date.
CYOLORAM A.
Tlic Ha tile of Gettysburg,
Just added. New and Wonderful Effects:-Bude Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wc im kd in the gloom of night. The Dead March!
Tlie Storm s Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects
3 and 8 pan. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Brino-
the children. c
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half,Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
FRED. B. NORTON,
General Theatrical and Amusement Agent.
At Homes, Garden Parties, Fetes, Coining of Age
Friendly Societies, Demonstrations, provided with
every description of Talent from £5 to £5OO.
ELOCUTION, DRAMATIC ART, STAGE TUITION.
Pupils received. Private or Public Lessons.
Twenty-four years Experience as Actor, Manager and
Proprietor, graduating in the famous Princes Theatue
(Manchester) School, 1867.
Office Hours — lo.3o until 5 odock.
7 Victoria Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH and ELIZABETH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Third Floor. Take the Elevator.
Registered address for cablegrams, “ Vigiliant,” Sydney
JJ° ND IAQ U A R I U M
Lessee and Manager .... ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission, Is.; Children, (id. Trains to Gate—Fare, id.
E
A R R I C K THEATR
Proprietors and Managers.
F. E. HISCOCKS and W. J. WILSON.
Treasurer A. E. POOLEY.
Last Two Nights of
JOHN F. SHERIDAN’S SUCCESS,
Little Black Eyed Susan.
Saturday Next, May 2, the world-famous and inimitable
PUN ON THE BRISTOL.
Manager for Mr. Sheridan _..._ H Vincent West-
Now Ready : Post Tree, Is. 6d^
T H |Lii^V t , AD URES and CON-
FESSIONS of a SYDNEY BARMAID-
being a truthful account of Private and Public
Bars, the Inner Life of Cafes, and the Manners,
Habits, Customs, Aspirations, and Morals of
Barmaids generally, with a glance at the patrons
of Private Bars. Highly interesting. To be had
only of Mdme, PANZA, Box 913 G.P.O.
NEVER HEARD OF BEFORE.-Dorothy Waltz
Is lOd ; Blue Pacific Waltz, Is lOd ; Paul Jones
Waltz, Is lOd; Love’s Golden Dream Waltz, Is Iod ; and
uOO other Waltzes at same price; Kowalski's March
Hongroise, Is lOd; Old and New Gavotte. Is lOd ; Alice
(by Woyke), Is lOd ; and heaps of others to ohose from :
Ura pro Nobis Is lOd ; Jack Ashore (charming Baritone
song), Is lOd ; Why must we say Good-bye, Is lOd ; The
Logie Man (rage of Sydney), lid; and piles of other
favourite and popular songs; all Is Music Books and
Annuals at lid. Tutors and Exercises for every instru-
ment. 5s 6d parcels and over sent post free. Violins
not the cheap, painted boxes (which ruin the touch and
ear of the performer), but real good models, with correct
gauges, at all prices. J. ALBERT & SON, King Street,
Sydney, the cheapest place for Music, Violins, Accordeous,
Anglos, ilutes, Strings, Guitars, Banjos, and Repairs,
Furniture, &o.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE ANn PIANOFORTE
„. WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
bedding manufacturers.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
•SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
p
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any material.
1 ANOEORTES, by R. LIPP and SOHN.
j NELFELD _and other Celebrated
Newton
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES,
and Lamb.
Bi\.G i ATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
iTr <)O . ( 'S very handsome designs, with
V teet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
newton and lamb,
___ Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING- AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
B E 5 R ,9P M SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
to T, a “d. tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
' Vlt “ Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
0 Connell and Spring Streets,
p
Cl ANY AS FOLDING
y COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
lied light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
IN TNG TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre and
SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan.
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS. White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB,
6s. Cd.; 8 x 8, Os.; 9 x 8,9 s. Gd.; 10 x 8,10 s. 6d.;
12x8, 12s. 6d.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
Turinture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
ROCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful—-a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
p
A
US.TRIA N
CHAIKS
in
GREAT VARIETY,
NEWTON & LAMB.
p
■OANVAT"rOTJMNG
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring a«d o‘Conneul Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
Y
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
O ATT AN VERANDAH LOUNGES, from
XXi 155.; and large variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
AND LAMB.
’ FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
„ AND
bedding manufacturers.
Show Rqoms and Manufactory:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.


D R
RENDLE, b r isba n e
(opposite the Post Office).
ISP* ADVICE BY LETTER IF REQUIRED.
■A.. "W. STEEL,
16 HANOVER STREET, FITZROY.
HIGHBORN! HIGHBORN! HIGHBORN 1
For the Sydney Cup was the latest success of
COMMON SENSE
(Alias Mr. W. A. STEEL, the well-known ARISTO-
CRATIC TOUT),
Who sent him to EVERYONE in his WIRES of the
MORNING OF THE RACE.
AFTER this, and coming- AFTER his recent VRC
Tips, WHAT need to ask WHO IS NOW the CHAMPION
Tipster of- Australia ?
ANN LAL SUBSCRIBERS of £, r > ss. receive all such
information as the above WEEKS before the events take
place, as Mr. S. points them out in his WEEKLY
LETTERS to SUBSCRIBERS, hence it is much to the
advantage of sportsmen TO JOIN HIS SUBSCRIPTION
Terms now reduced to 10s. for a wire ANY race-dav
with REALLY RELIABLE SELECTIONS, sent out bi-
ll o’clock on the morning of the race to ANY address dr
to the grand stand ; or, THE INFORMATION may be
had each morning by calling at address at foot.
Mr. S. varies very much from all other tipsters inas
much as he NEVER gives more than ONE horse in a race.
Mr. Steel advises THIS WEEK and afterwards over:—
The South Australian Tattersall’s Club Autumn
Meeting, 2nd May;
Victoria Amateur Turf Club Meeting, 2nd Mav •
Bowes Tattersali’s Races, sth May ; ’
Melbourne Hunt Club Meeting, 9th May.
TEN SHILLINGS A WIRE FOR EACH DAY AT EACH
MEETING.
Mr. Steel tipped (besides other winners) REWI at
ASPENDALE PARK, when he started at 10 to 1. ’
Some REAL GOOD THINGS for all the above Meetings.
Send at once or CALL.
Send for Mr. S.’s circular, wherein he demonstrates hv
COMMON SENSE WHY ho MUST be in a better posTtion
than ANY OTHER Turf Adviser to impart REALLYYe
liable information.
ADELAIDE BIRTHDAY CUP.
A “DEAD SNIP,” only 10s.
Send immediately, well worth backing AT ONCE This
and trouble bCBn ° btained oni - v at the greatest expense
Address, with remittances—
A. W. STEEL,
16 HANOVER STREET, FITZROY,
MELBOURNE.
Rose’s Lime Juice Cordial.
Recommended by the Lancet and the Medical Faculty as
t.io jest dunk at alt times. Invaluable in warm weather.
Insist on getting the.genuine brand— 1 ROSE’S.”
Wholesale Agents:
iisriKriESis & co,,
14 CASTLE RE AG II STREET, SYDNEY.
r
«
A\ KH’S HAIR V IGOR is unrivaled for
the restoration of faded and gray hair to its
original color and freshness, and for keeping
the scalp clean and healthy. The most popular
and elegant toilet preparation in the world, all
who use it, pronounce it, also, the best hair-
grower. W hen the capillary glands become en -
feebled by disease,age, or neglect, this dressing
imparts renewed life to the scalp, so that the
hair again assumes its original
Fullness and Beauty.
Ladies find that this preparation imparts to the
hair a silken pliancy and a delicate and lasting
fragrance. Gentlemen use it to prevsnt bald-
ness, to restore faded and gray hair to its former
color and abundance, and to relieve the scalp of
troublesome humors and dandruff. A proof of
the superiority of this preparation over all
others of the kind is the constantly-increasing
demand for it in all civilized countries.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
Government
Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 29, 1891.
ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13,
Bridge, Saltwater Creek, road Eden to Pambula
Bridge, Emigrant Creek, at Tintenbar
Culvert over Warroo Creek, road Yass to Cor-
radigbee
Repairs, Courthouse, Quirindi
Additions, Lockup Gaol, at Silverton
Erection of Bridge at Wilaregang over Back-
water, road Tintaldra to T. oma
Supply of Launch in steam at Grafton Ferry,
Clarence River. (Designs, &c., to be sub-
mitted)
Bridge, Martin’s Gully, Main North-road
Repairs Post and Telegraph Office, Gunning (fresh
tenders)
Construction of Timber Punt for Largs Ferry,
Hunter River
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Warri
Repairs, &c., Sydney Mint
Erection of Fire Brigade Station, George-street,
North
Repairs, &c., Walgett Gaol (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Narran River, at Yerambah (fresh
tendeis)
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Scone
Renewal of Planking Iron Wharf, Darling Har-
SUPPLIES.
bonr
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27.
Low Level Bridge over Yellow Creek, on road
Tenterfield
Footbridge, Allyn River, at Allynhrook to
Lawrence.
Bridge, Bean Tree Crossing, road Casino to Mount
Lindsay
Wharf, &c., Bungawalbin, Richmond River.
(Fresh tenders)
Additions, &e., Post and Telegraph Office,
Robertson
Construction of Ventilating Shaft, Otford Tunnel,
Ilawarra Railway
Additions, &c., Post’ and Telegraph Office, Bar-
raba (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Euoumbene River, road Cooma to Kiandra
(fresh tenders)
Renewal of Spouting, &c.. Hospital for Insane,
Gladesville
WEDNESDAY, .TUNE 24.
Supply of 175,000 tons of Steel Rails, to bo manu-
factured in New South Wales (offers may be
sent to the Agent-General, London, up to this
date)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 8.
Construction of further length (23|m.) towards
Mullumbunby, Lismore- Tweed Railway.
(Plans to be seen after April 13.)
Bridge, Lane Cove River. Contract No. 1 -
Supply of Materials. Contract No. 2—Erec-
tion. (Alternative tenders for Contracts Nos.
1 and 2 combined may be submitted,)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 15.
Construction of Railway from Molong to Parkes
and Forbes, i:o two sections. (Plans to be
seen after April 30, 1891.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 19.
Supplyof Pipes, special eastings, &0., Cootamundra
Water Supply
BRUCE SMITH.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 27th April, 1891.
A TTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice I
-CIL inviting Tenders for the Conveyance o r [
Mails between Barraba and Elcombe ; Cooney j
Creek and Hillgrove West; Murrumburrah and
i«ggan Beggan ; Crookwell and J. RocheV
Station, Glengarry ; Brooman and Brimbramalla.; !
and Buckley’s Crossing Place and Boloko.
Tenders will be received up to 11 -a. in., on the
oth proxuno, and must be addressed to the Secrr- (
tary to the Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR, „ S
THE WATERBURY WATCHES have
derived their reputat on of being
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS
from the myriads of grateful purchasers who have
satisfied themselves that they are fully up to the
standard of excellence claimed by the makers.
They are ST RONG,
HANDSOME,
SERVICEABLE,
WELL-FINISHED WATCH ES,
and far more reliable than half of the jewolled-all-
over-patent-haif-oock-go-as-you-pleaseJjack-action
chronographs of the day. Genuine testimonials
as to their worth can be produced by the thousand.
Messrs. Thomson Bros., storekeepers, Cordil-
lera, N.S.W., write It gives us great pleasure
in stating that out of 100 watches sold by us, only
one has ever been returned, and this one was after-
wards proved to have had unusually rough treat-
ment. We can strongly recommend the Water-
bury as a cheap and honest watch.”
John C. Trelawney, Esq., Maidenhead Station,
Tenterfield, writes Having had a practical
acquaintance with your watches for nearly five
years I beg to testify to their invariable accuracy
in recording time. The paucny of the English
language fails to,furnish me with terms adequate
to express my high approval of them.”
Lieut. Win. Waddilove, R'N.R., Commander
of the R.M.S. Iberia, says : “ I beg to state that I
have carried with me for the past two years one
of your short-winding Waterbury Watches. It
has proved a most reliable timekeeper, and I find
it most useful at sea, as moving its hands does not
seem to affect its accuracy.”
Purchasers should note that no watch sold as a
Waterbury is genuine without it has the word
Waterbury printed in fine type upon its dial face,
and also the interlaced letters W.W.Co. The
genuine articles may be obtained from any lead-
ing respectable dealer or storekeeper throughout
the colony. Price: Series E, the old long-
winding favouite,l3s fid ; Series J, the new short-
winding Gentlemen’s Waterbury, 22s fid ; Series
L, the Ladies’ Gem, 22s fid.
COLGATE’S
Soaps
Perfumes
EEruBLIOU
FRAH
COLGATE
GOLD MEDAL,
PARIS, 1889.
DR. SCOTT'S Electric Hair Brushes will
positively CURE Nervous Headache or
Neuralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary everyday use they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dan-
druff, and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles—not wires, which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
Dr. Scott’s Electric Brushes, Corsets, Belts, &c.
May be obtained from T. W. Johnston & Co.,
Washington H. Soul & Co., and all chemists
and storekeepers, or from the
Pall Mall Electric Association*
56 MARGARET STREET SYDNEY.
Round the Shops and Shows.
When a lady goes out for a day’s shopping
iu'-Sydney, the wisest thing she call do, when she
gets into the city, is to walk up King-street to
Mr. Quong Tart’s tea-rooms and fortify huisol
witli a enp of his matchless tea, and a deliciow s
hot buttered scone. And at one o’clock, when the
inner man again asserts himself, she cannot do better
than return and partake of the very excellent
repast provided in the shape of soups, fish, grills,
&o-, I ( io crowd of customers who frequent
. the rooms at mid-day speaks volumes, and many
are content to sit in the waiting-room for over half
an hour, watching for their chance of a seat at one
of the numerous tables. An amiable and attentive
manageress contributes in no small measure to th 0
many attractions of Quong Tart’s tea-rooms.
* * #
Messrs. Hordern Bros., of 207 Pitt-street
(only address) arc at present showing a splendid
stock of Dr. Jaeger’s celebrated woollen under-
clothing. These garments are so strongly recom-
mended by the faculty that it would ho almost
tempting Providence to wear afiVlhihg else. The
material is delightfully _ soft, and unlike most
woollen goods, it .does not irritate the skin. ’.Messrs.
Hordern Bros, are having an immense sale of
these articles, and have t!\em in both the light and
heavy makes, so as to suit everybody.
# # #
Mi’. Wyatt's Oriental Bazaar affords a
pleasant retreat to those who take an interest in
Japanese and Indian curios. In the “ cony
corner ” or “divan ” one enjoys comfortably cush-
ioned seats, and by merely looking around can
obtain all kinds of new ideas concerning the
decoration of walls, doorways, pictures, and the
like. A beautiful black Japanese wood cabinet
with panels in raised designs in gold, pearl, and
ivory, is well worth inspection—and the scores of
curios bestrewn here, there and everywhere in
the bazaar fill one with wonder. It is, as the
spider said to the fly, a place where you see so
many pretty things you never saw before.
*• * #
Mrs. McCathie, of 80 King-street, is to
the fore as usual, and has taken care to provide
her well-known establishment with a large stock
of ladies and children’s sanitary underclothing.
The children’s sleeping-suits are particularly cosy,
the material being made from the finest Alpine
wool, is both healthful and comfortable. The
combinations are made in sizes to suit all, i
from the tiniest tot upwards. It is a well-
known fact that consumption is often contracted
in consequence of insufficient chest-covering, but
surely anyone weaving, at any rate during the
winter months, the double - breasted singlets
would be able to keep all chest complaints at bay.
These wonderful woollen articles, though so light
in weight, afford the most complete protection
against all changes in the weather. Some are
minus trimming, whilst others are elaborately
ornate with torchon lace which has been dyed a
neutral tint to harmonise with the material."
# # *
Since the days of the ancients, when Flora,
the goddess of flowers, held sway, floral decora-
tions, in whatever shape or form, has been the
special province of the weaker sex. Doubtless,
then, the success of the decorations at the last
Government House ball (April 13th) was duo to
the fact that they were designed and carried out
by Mrs. Trump and her daughters, who have
lately purchased the business formerly carried on
by Maude and Co., 141, King-street. These
enterprising ladies are already doing brisk busi-
ness in the floral line.
We read of Great Heart in the “ Pilgrim’s
Progress,” who was victorious over the powers of
darkness; but a mightier power than Great Heart
is now in Sydney—-the microbe-killer, a medicine
which, by destroying all the germs of the diseases
which the flesh is heir to, restores the invalid to
health, and accordingly may be termed the elixir
of life. This most wonderful discovery of the
present century is termed the Microbe-killer, and
is to be obtained in gallon jars at 319 George-
street, Sydney.
* » #
One of the greatest boons to the amateur
dressmaker is the dress-stand. Messrs. Eastvvay
Bros., of 411 George-street, Sydney, are showing
them in great variety. They can be bought at
the following prices French padded figures,
padded to the hips only, no skirts to them, fitted
on a nice stand, 3(>s.; complete wire figures, bust
and skirt to expand, 305.; complete wire figures,
skirt only expanding, 255.; complete wire figures,
extra strong, no part expanding, 20s ; complete
wire figures, no part expanding, 12s. 6d.; com-
plete extending wire skirt, 17s. 6d.; complete wire
skirt, not extending, extra strong, 10s. 6d.; com-
plete wire skirt, not extending, 7s. (id ; folding
skirt, different styles, each 155.; the improved
folding skirt, shuts up like an umbrella, and can be
made any size, 20s. A complete figure or skirt,
when packed in battens, weighs a little over 301bs.
The oust of packing would be 2s. Cd., but tiny
can be sent unpacked at purchasers’ option.
Messrs. Eastvvay Bros, do their best to get the
figures carried at the lowest rate.
* * #
Where there is such keen competition in
the musical-instrument business as in Sydney it
is difficult to make up one’s mind where to go for
the best piano. When, however, the importer is
himself a thorough musician, that fact alone should
be sufficient to decide one. A poor piano would
find no use in Mr. Chas. Huenerbein’s warehouse,
■3lB George-street. It is, therefore, certain that
by purchasing there no mistake could be made.
Mr. Huenerbein has just opened a special class of
pianos, with all the latest improvements, by Lipp
Nteinway, Vogel, Rubenstein, Hoff, Schmidt’
Neumeyer, Leidel, Carl Hess and Rosner. The
celebrated Brinsmead pianos, for which Mr.
Huenerbein is sole agent, are offered for sale at
English cost. The tuning and repairing of pianos
is attended to under Mr. 0. Huenerbein’s super-
vision.
# * #
A pleasant hour can be spent inspecting
Mr. Henry Callan and Son’s stock of high-class
water-colour drawings and engravings, from the
first London and Continental publishers. This
firm of fine-art importers, have also always on
hand a large and choice stock of picture frames,
and mouldings, and it is not known by everybody
that they also undertake to restore oil paintings
and remove mildew spots from engravings, &o.
Ihoir address is 318 George-street, Sydney.
• # «
And now, after spending a large cheque at
any of the above establishments, the best thing a
any t;an do, in order to keep her husband in good
humour, and not let him worry too much over
ifiat same cheque, is to give him a dose of Marie
Hazard s rum, which is kept in wicker bottles,
and can be bought from any wine merchant, lead-
grocer, or hotel. This will act like a charm.
* # #
* Any lady who is prevented through cir-
cumstances from doing her shopping, can have
any commissions quickly and faithfully executed
at any of the establishments mentioned in this
paper by sending her orders, addressed to “ Mab,”
Bulletin Office, Pitt-street.
St anbury has won the boat-race. Hum !
Let us drink Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
Mr. Peter Thoinle has just arrived in
Sydney for the purpose of establishing an art
furniture business. The only silver medal
awarded at the Melbourne International Exhibi-
tion to Brisbane was taken by Mr. Thoinle for
industrial work. Air. Thoinle, who has taken
several medals at the various Australian exhibi-
tions, intends to patent in Sydney and introduce bis
automatic cash-ti 11 and recording machine, which
not only shows the amount of each purchase, but
i egisters it and accurately totals up the aggre-
gate. On arrival Air. Thoinle was entertained at
a ball and supper given in his honour by Herr
.nans Pasmussen at his residence in Paddington.
Blackfellow “Tom Ritchie,’’ the last
King of Orang-Oranga ” —or Aringa—the name
ot.tne tribe of happy grub-eating savages who
originally roamed over what is now the Portland
and I ort hairy country of Victoria—was buried
a la whitefellow at Condah Mission Station ceme-
tery on 15th insfc. Poor old “Tom,” who must
nave picked up his re-christening from the Ritchies
--who, in the old days, owned Aringa Station —
tell upon bad times during the eve of his life- rum
and missionary made him a white-man’s mangy
slave, with an incoherent gabble about “gor-
speltroo and _ “ ally.yooyah,” dependent on
government rations and lies for bare tucker,
instead of a knife-scarred but absolute monarch
over slayers and snarers of game. Hence,
rn-tead of being eaten, or smoke - dried in
a . h's Majesty was shoved into the
civilised deal coffin, with his title brass-plated on
the lid, though the usual lies as to his virtues
were not considered necessary to the occasion.
He seemed to be over 70, and, under missionary
turnon, had developed into an ingenious, poor-
pfeller-me, cadger. If you doubted his Royalty,
you couldn’t gainsay his genuine “gorspel,” for
he could gabble “Our Father chart never;”
tor a wager of baccy and a stiff-un, without
making more than 28 blackfellow’s mistakes. Vale,
King Tom !
The lassoo of the “Wild West” has en-
ainouml the merry ambition of Charters Towers
childhood. A knot of women gossiping on a
verandah, with two girls seated jauntily on the
verandah railing, attracted the attention the
other of four embryotic cowboys, who
were “prowling the prairies” of the Charters
lowers streets, clothes-line in hand, in search of
prey. The verandah temptation was altogether
beyond resistance. “ Whew-izz !” went the
lariat; “Whoop!” cried the urchins, and two
lassies went tumbling backwards like roped angels
turning somersaults, while four madly yelling
kiddies went rushing up-street until the necessary
jerk proclaimed that the quarry was snared and
resistant. Now came a tug of war—Indian
whoops and women’s screams, and no one knows
how the god of battles would have decided the
affair, had not a sensible little girl sneaked into
the house, returned with a carving knife and cut
the Gordian rope, sending both parties of tuggers
all a-sprawl in reverse directions. That girl must
be Joan of Arc, whom a legend says never dies in
the flesh.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is taken with perfect safety
by old and young. Its cleansirig and vitalizing
effects are sure and speedy, and it is universally
conceded to be the most effective of all blood-
purifiers.
Parkes, at St. Leonards, spoke of Sir
John Macdonald as “ a very able and very
remarkable man.” Now, a man may be very able
and very remarkable, and yet be an unmitigated
rascal. Not that this applies to Sir John Mac-
donald.
CAN GANGER BE GORED?
COUNT MATTEI CHALLENGES THE
DOCTORS.
A very interesting article appears in the January
number of the Review of Reviews on the subject
of one of the most terrible of all diseases, ’‘Can-
cer.” The medical Faculty ha e hitherto plainly
declared it to be “incurable,” What a horrible
significance that word has ! Count Mattel, an
Italian nobleman, claims to have cured cancer not
in one but in many instances. He is a rich man
who began a course of scientific study at middle
age, and the first clue to his alleged wonderful
medicine is said to have been arrived at by watch-
ing a sheepdog afflicted with a virulent attack of
mange. This dog absented itself daily, and
curiosity led Mattel to follow it: when ho found
that it made for the mountain and there scratched
up and ate a particular r dt.
Mr. Stead, the editor of the Review of Reviews,
heard so much from persons of note as to (In'
efficacy of-Mattel’s treatment, that in the public
interest he went over to Bolonga to interview the
count, and relates the result of his researches.
Should Count Matters specific prove to be all
that is claimed for it, it will no doubt become as
great a public boon as the famous St. Jacobs Oil,
which has effected so many marvellous cures in
cases of nervous affections, such as rheumatism,
neuralgia, muscular contusions, &c. St. Jacobs
Oil has become a household word throughout the
civilised world, and has been the means of rescuing
thousands from pain and misery. All who have
tried it agree that it is a valuable domestic remedy
that should have a place in every well-regulated
household.


p
p
p
p
p
p
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
p
S»s*ao3s:e only
TONI
The best
3(3. CIGARS
EVERY TOBACCONIST KEEPS THEM.
WARREN & STRANG, Sole Agents, Barrack St., Sydney
SPORTlNG.— Footballs-Cheapest and best variety
in the colony. Insides repaired. Fishing Tackle—Every
description ; Rods, Reels, Lines, Hooks, Sinkers, Floats,
Gut, Nets, Twines, &c, Bricklayers’ and Carpenters’
Lilies. Cricket Material —Great variety: Bats, Balls,
Guards, Gloves, Gauntlets, &e. Boxing Gloves—All sizes
and qualities. Tennis Racquets repaired and restrung.
Send or call for Price-list (gratis).
HARRY A. HOWES (late George Prentice, Tobac-
conist), the Queensland Sports Depot, Ed ward-street,
Brisbane. Footballs, Fishing, Boxing, Cricket.
iHßOuUnwui liit;
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
“ I will GIVE A BOTTLE of my Remedy for Nothing,
so that sufferers may have an opportunity of testing
the truth of what I fearlessly state.”
Thousands of Bottles of this Marvellous Medicine
GIVEN AIVA V every Year.
I have made a life-long study of the disease of Fits,
Epilepsy, or Falling Sickness, and when I say Cure, I
do not mean merely to stop them for a time and then
have them return again, I mean a Radical Cure. I
have known my remedy to cure the worst cases. Because
others have failed to cure you is no reason why you
should continue to su®;r. Send at once for my Treatise
and a Free Bottle of medicine. It costs you nothing
for a trial and IT WILL CURE !
Dr. H.G ROOT,2B, Endsleigh Gardens,Euston-rd.,
LONDON, N.W
COWPASTURE FARMS.
XO A.cres for £65.
Five Years’ Terms. Only Sfi Miles from Sydney.
SOIL, RICH CHOCOLATE LOAM.
Church, Public School, and Post-office. Inspection invited.
Plans and pamphlets post free.
BOYD & KING,
29 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
iiTwS
V
f'u
IK
SxA^rS'/M^f'vsi 1 ■ 1
Kazid Rock IDrills.
COURT HOTEL,
BEAUFORT STREET,
Perth, Western Australia.
J. R. North, Proprietor.
Telephone No. 60.
TO STOUT PEOPLE
CORPUS K reduces superfluous flesh
easily, pleasantly, and certainly, without hardship.
Treatisie containing advice and full explanation of
method sent in plain envelope on receipt of six stamps.
Edwin Peck, Box 161 C P.O. MELBOURNE.
Samuel macgregor & co.,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS,
SHEEP AND CATTLE SALESMEN,
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS,
Town, Suburban, & Country Land Salesmen.
GENERAL AUCTIONEERS.
188 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
A Hint to Hairdressers.
CRAIG & AITKEN
■ ir~ iQr —<r
are the people to send to for your Requisites. They are in
the Trade themselves, and know where and what to buy.
THEY
HAVE A GRAND
STOCK
—OF —
HAIRDRESSING CHAIRS (American and Ordinary), MIRRORS, HOTWATER URNS,
SHAMPOOING BASINS, TAPS, TANKS and APPARATUS, BARBERS’ POLES,
CUTTING CLOTHS, APRONS, STROPS, RAZORS, SCISSORS, BRUSHES, &c.
In fact, everything connected with the Trade.
0T SEND for a SAMPLE of our SHAVING SOAP—the Finest in the World for Hairdressers.
Saloons Thoroughly Fitted Ont. CASH or TERMS.
Send for Price List to their ONLY ADDRESS —
CRAIG & AITKEN,
680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY,
Medical.
DfA.PATERSON
‘•nssr ‘•«*r>->T-r\r s*<rr ‘'sttiivt c, T*ro ‘ttw ‘'wv
157
i ELIZABETH STREET, |
{ Sydney. i
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, |\| ERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results.of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears arid head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor,sterility,premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent-
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “ Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
KY
s
H
W
| K.W,iC!_
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
p
Sole Agent JAMES MOIR&CO., 58Margaret-st., Sydney
IVTERVOTJS SUFFERERS, from secret or
JN other causes. consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
A POSITIVE CURE.
DR. BOHANNAN’S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps.
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street
N.S.W.
Address
Sydney,
H.
161
P. GREGORY & CO.,
Clarenoe-st.,
Sydney, & at
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &o
ENGINEERS
-AUD -
General Machinery Merchants.
Melbourne & Brisbane,
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EDSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., &c.
a
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
ai
IK, J|i
!i I ■
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEYANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
4ND EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
&c. , &c.
Webber’s latent Centrifugal Pump.
STFAM ENGINES Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined, from two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
bLE AM. ililN VjriiN , T . , ■ VTCYTTNEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing Machines, &c,
F ATRB ANN’S Scale's Weighbridges. Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Crease, Belting, Emery Wheels,
Lubri^tors We picke l rmg Engine Governors. i3T Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
c j±_ g-oxjldtin sn-A-imr-’
Love-lays of a Lunatic.
I traced, on the firm, smooth, silver sand,
Four words, with fevered, hasty hand —
“ Dulce, I love thee!
Just then, in rolled an envious sea
And swept away both words and me.
(Dulce, I love thee !)
Oh, ci'uel wave ! oh, fickle shore !
In thy domains I’ll write no more
“ Dulce, I love thee !”
“ I’ll stand on Himalaya’s peak
And, with a giant’s strength, I’ll tweak
Some blackened pine-tree from the root,
And write across the heavens, in soot,
“Dulce, I love thee !”
[The Bulletin advises this man not to write
poetry to his girl in future: it’s safer and much
more explicit to wink at her.]
p
p
p
pp
p
p
p


Musical.
I£KAI» THIS CAKKFl'LlY!— Revolution in the
Music Trade!!! -For cash or on time payments, 700
Violins, from Bs lid to £25 ; 550 Accnrdeons, from 3s 6d
to £3; 120 Banjos, from 2s to *lO ; Zithers, from 21s;
Mandolines, from 255; Guitars, from 7s 6d; Cornels,
30s to £3O; Flageolets; Flutes, from Od ; Drums; Anglo
and English Concertinas, from 255; German Concertinas,
from 2s lid : Nigger Bones, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Double
Basses, Brats Bands, String Bands complete, Pianos,
Organs, Conic Song Books. New Music by every mail;
New Waltzes every week ; New Songs by every mail.
Pianos Exchanged and Tuned. Any kind of instrument
thoroughly repaired by experienced English workmen.
Write for full particulars ; the prices will astonish you.
85,0 O Songs and I’leccs- 3d cadi.
HOWARD & CO.,
OCEAN STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted ; Good Commission Paid for
Good Business.
MUSICAL.
Pianoforte Pupils should buy INGHAM’S PATENT
SCALE INSTRUCTOR to learn scales quickly, 3s. Cd
Note—Anyone would play the most intricate scale with
five minutes instruction.
Ingham’s Improved Piano Vamping Instructor,
Without a knowledge of Music, ss. (3d., posted from
Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
DEPOSITORS. BORROWERS.
The Intercolonial Investment*
LAND & BUILDING CO., Ltd.,
AND
DEPOSIT BAMT2E:.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices: 553 PHI WET, KNIT.
Directors:
WM. M ‘COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P. ; THOS. TATE, Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS.
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit;
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
{
Participating
i;i
Boni’.s.
\
J
7] per cent.
7 percent.
(J per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
N W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Subscribed, £151,305; Capital Paid-up, £101,757.
M Office i Fill Si Market Streets, Sydney.
Board of Directors:
Francis Abigail. Eaa., M.L. A., Chairman; Ann. S. G. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassall, Esq.. M.L.A.; William Bub, Esq., J.P.;
Kobt. Cunningham Esq.
Branches :
New South Wales: Gonlburn — Auburn Street. C. H.
Atkinson, Manager. Grafton —Prince Street. Janies
Brownhill, Manager. Queensland: Brisbane Queen
Street. W. J. Taylor, Manager.
The Bank transacts all usual banking ousiness in every
particular. Special advantages granted to Commercial
Clients.
The Highest Bates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, Chairman.
April 2, 1891 .
Miscellaneous.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Artists in Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London,
are prepared to place before the public all the latest
novelties in Floral work. Table decorations for Balls,
Weddings, and Dinner Parties receive special attention
for which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Bouquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs
Sprays, and Buttonholes
are arranged in the latest London style at
The Home of Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst, HurStviUe,
p
CONSULT the Eminent Specialist
Da. SPEED,
sTyOBK STREET, SYDNEY
KLLS GUARANTEED, 10s and £1 per box, post free
=>£
'P
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
yFRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
Maij he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
> c
Street V
Beware of imitations. The genuine is sigae.
TRAD t MARK. —MUsiJi DEER
p
The PROVINCIAL
SOI Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
INTEREST allowed on FIXED DEPOSITS at following rates, viz.
At Call .. .. 5 per cent, per annum.
Three Months ..0 ~ ~
Six Months .. 7 per cent, per annum.
Twelve Months ... 8 ~ >»
Longer terras, special arrangements, with a Bonus at maturity if renewed.
A SAVINGS BRANCH is also open in connection with the above Company, and deposits are received and intern
allowed on the daily balance at 5 per cent, per annum. .
To Borrowers. Advances made on Freehold and Leasehold Properties (first and second mortgages), Stoc
Mortgages, Scrip, Merchandise, Crops, Machinery, etc. Bills discounted daily. Repayments to suit borrowers.
’ . A. M‘GREGOR, Secretary.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tine ISESrljglhL-fcoiaa. oiT KTew SSoti-fcla. Wales.
A most Comfortable High-olass Establishment, Excellent .Table, Large well ventilated Dunns
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every fac li.ty for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specials
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT / O'CLOCK.
o :
. . Proprietress.
p
Acknowledge
The Best
i »Tl[i
p
p
I Dr. M. PERRY,
1 M.E.C.S., L.y A , &c.,
SPECIALIST for the Treatment of Nervous
Complaints, Diabetes, Tumors, &c.
Registered by the Medical Bo tr lof N.S. W. Lite House Sur-
geon to the Great Northern Hospital. London
I am aware that I am not strictlv following the paths
Of professions! etiquette by advertising myself as a
Specialist for the eatin~nt of this class of disease, but,
unfortunately for the suffering public in Australia the
apathy shown by Qualified Men in the treatment of
Chronic and Nervous Complaints has induced men of the
lowest grade of intellect (whose only qualifications are
unlimited assurance) to spring up, and by specious
advertisements and false promises trap the unwary.
It is very evident that sufferers from these diseases
have been scandalously treated by these unqualified
persons The evidence taken at the Medical Enquiry
held in Sydney (published in the Daily Telegraph, Nov.
6th 7th and Bth. IS9U) plainly shows the disgraceful
manner in which patients are duped. Not only are
they robbed of their money hut what is of infinitely
greater importance, their health is injured also. It is
therefore time that Legally Qualified Men entered the
field to fight these pests of society with their own
weapons, viz., Advertising.
It is utterly impossible for those who are suffering
from the e diseases who are scattered over 11 parts of
Australasia, to ascertain which -Qualified Practitioner
makes these diseases his speciality unless he advertises.
I consider therefore, that by advertising I not n ly
strike a blow at the Quackery which now exists, but J also add
to the usefulness of my profession and in no way lessen viy
personal dignity.
lUt Qualifications I Invito the fullest Investigation Into. For some considerable time I was House Surgeon io the
Great Northern Hospital, London, whei e T had special opportunities of c servin the many phases of the Nervous a.d
Sexua .system, and to be ome a-cquain'ed with the most scientific method* oi tnectlog their cure.
My sole attention is given to the treatment of these diseases, an ) when a person consults me he is informed at he
commencement whether I can effect his cure or not. The patient is not deluded with false and specious promises, and
if I undertake the case
I Absolutely Guarantee a Complete anti Permanent Cure.
My great success in the treatment of these diseases enables me to give this guarantee without fear.
EttiWEttiliV HEX, If!l»m.E-A,)»KW M Elf, VOIXtt .11 E.¥
Suffering from Impaired Vitality shnnUl semi for my Work oa Disease. or the ISeprodnetive Organs. which.in nddilin *to e plaining
my method of treatment, contains many useful hints ns to elf Management, the obserr nice of which is of great use to all, and in mang
instances is sufficient t > check the progress of di ease. This Book will lie forwarded !■ ree oa application.
Patients residing at a distance can he treated at their own homes without interruption to their business. Medicines packed and sent
free from observation to dl parts of Australasia. ,
Varioeele quickly and permanent y cured without operation. Diabetes and Tumors treated by a tn'ally new method of Cutaneous
Medication. Consultation Honrs—Prom 10 am. to 4 pm. daily (except ' undag s); and from 7 to 9 p.m. on Tuesday and Saturday
evenings ■ Consultation [either by letter or in person) Free.
Ad dress all Communications
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.0.5., L.S.A., &c., Elraley House, 151 Elizabeth-si, Sydney, H.S.W.
H B.— l would advise all persons before consulting- specialists to ascertain if they are really Duly Qualified Practi-
tioners, or only advertising frauds.
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
(")
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times iOAZIiY in the Building,
TELLER A PR, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
p
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Elegan
Hard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention to
visitors. *ar Tariff, 10s. Gd. per day. Special Rates for Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY • • Proprietors.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the establishment).
Shipping.
TTNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
*■* ZEALAND. Limited.
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and the Cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmaster-General of New
Zealand, the steamers of this line are appointed to leave
Sydney and Auckland for Honolulu and San Francisco
EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified Surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with electric light, and with
a refrigerating chamber for ship’s provisions, ensuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are hooked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations, and have at San Francisco choice
of the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of tiro Ounard,
Inman, White Star, and other Companies.
All first-class passengers arc allowed 3501 b. of baggage
(Or San Francisco, and 2501 b. “ overland ” free of charge.
THHOUGH PARE TO LIVERPOOL,
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books showing all
other information apply at the Company’s Offices 15
Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
ifIOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers.
1
1 Commander
jLeave Sydney
I at 11 a.m.
FRANIKN iA. Poydennt jMay
POLYNESIAN P. Pellegrin .. lJune
Leave Mel-.
I bourne 4 p.m
May 23
'June 30
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Hates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. - Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Maoquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JEJUDDART,
PARKER &
CO.’S LINES.
STEAM to
Victoria...
f MELBOURNE.
\ GEELONG.
South. Australia —ADELAIDE.
*/esfa Australia
ALBANY.
YASSE.
FREEMANTLE (Perth).
.And all North-west Ports.
Tasmania
* asmaiua ...
/HOBART.
LAUNCESTON.
p
For DAYS and HOURS OF SAILING see
daily papers, or apply at the office, where all
informed will be afforded.
Mart, Parker & Co„ limited.
OFFICES and WHARF:
Foot of MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
I UK S’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
H i Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Sedimayr's Bavarian “Spaien.” “Export”
ami “Tafcl" Laser— SPECIALITY.
ROYAL HYDE PARK HOTEL,
BATHURST AND ELIZABETH STREETS.
, (Opposite Hyde Park) SYDNEY.
Superior Accommodation. Private Apartments , Ac.
All Trams Stop at Door.
MICHAEL SHALVEY, Sen PROPRIETOR.
Spectacles v. Blindness.
A. P. GREENFIELD,
The only Consulting and Manufacturing Oculist
Optician in Queensland, and Honorary Ophthal-
mic Optician to Brisbane Hospital,
Treasury Buildings (op. Savings Bank), George St-
BRISBANE.
Smd for Self-Measurement and Pamphlet on the Eye,


“A Golden Shanty.”
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding', 2s. 6d,, post paid.
ALL AGENTS.
NOTICE Mr. J. G. HOLLER has been
appointed sole agent for the sale of Thr
Buiretin in Orange.
%
%
12 Hunter Street,
•SYDNEY
(SECOND DOOR OFF MAUyUARIE STREET ),
Under the supervision of
Signor H Baptista,
For the Treatment of
Nervous, Rheumatic & Joint Diseases.
WICKHAM HOUSE
HYDROPATHIC ESTABLISHMENT,
BRISBANE.
Resident Consulting Physician;
Dr. J. BINDS SOUTH AM.
A Home for the Invalid seeking restand change.
The Food Supply of the Best Quality, suitably prepared.
Further particulars and prospectuses,’apply to
M . HARRY ROOT; Manager.
JE3C. "W ISE Ss O O .
PUBLISHERS OF THE
“New South Wales Post Office Directory,”
“Victoria Post Office Directory,”
“ New Zealand Post office Directory,”
“ Queensland Official Directory,”
“Tasmania Post Office Directory.”
320 Flinders Lane W., MELBOURNE ; 27 Victoria Cham-
bers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; Power’s Buildings
Queen Street, BRISBANE ; Princes St., DUNEDIN, N.Z.’
Support a New Local ludustry.
./V. JT A. 3VH ms,
COOIMMItOO,
Has much pleasure in announcing to the public
that ho has just introduced a New Local Industry,
having completed all the necessary works, such as
Kilns, Buildings, Machinery, etc., at great ex-
pense, ancj having received the Chemicals and
everything necessary for the manufacture of
All Descriptions of Pottery and Sanitary Ware,
KOMAJV »V mo.SAll' TILES,
he is now able to execute orders to any extent.
Goods are ready for inspection at the Works,
Ooorparoo, where large Show-rooms are erected :
also, Samples may be seen and prices quoted at
the Shop, next door to Finney, Isles and Co.,
Queen-street, Brisbane, Queensland.
.
a
V
I
%:
3%!
mi
¥■ :#
..
3*
W£
W~ '■>
rm
■ v KvlS?
a-
g«B
illll
--
5i
1
I
I
V
I
I
I
II
H
■ m
The Blasting of Flood Koch, Ilell Gate, Jfew York Ifarhonr, <1 ctolicr 10, 1885, by 130 tons Fackarock, displacing 0 acres or rock.
SYDNEY:
144 CLARENCE ST., R. A.
Hervey,
A g
nt.
CD
MELBOURNE: 482 COLLINS ST., N. Guthridge, Agent.
m
m
HUDSON'S
“DRINK, PUPPY, DRINK!”
Q Study from Life. The Water Trough is one of those supplied by the Proprietors of Hudson’s Soap to Storekeepers, with a request that till
' may be placed on the Pavement during the Summer Months, for Thirsty Dogs.
HUDSON’S EXTRACT OF SOAP reduces the Hours of Labour.


Ask your grocer for the Assam Bier ds.
FEDERATION.
This scheme for Federation
Will soon or late secure,
For our Australian Nation,
A power that must endure,
And win for us as much of fame
As Snowwhitb Flour for Pemell’s name.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
and should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J, Douglas, C 6 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Professor Harveys Patent Self-applied, Painless, Elec-
tric Head Battery permanently Cures Deafness,’Head
Noises, Discharges, I bilious Head-aches. Advice and
pamplilet free. Apply to Professor Harvey, 145
solans Street, Melbourne. Magnificent Testimonials!
j Airs. fry's name was something to conjure by among 1
the N.S.VV. and V.D. L. transports, gven among the thou-
sands who had never seen or spoken to her.
Tales of the Old Regime.
No. VI.—The Drowning of Captain Bankes.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
On the disembarkation of the passengers
(Convicts Jane Applegarth 23, Minnie Reade 18,
Fanny Cockburn 21, and Julia Perry 26) from
that trip of the Cyprus, the last stage of which
had been so nearly marked by a catastrophe to
Captain Bankes, Commandant of Macquarie
Harbour,* who had been thrown overboard by
the strong-willed and strong-armed Applegarth
girl, Bankes, drenched, hurried to change his
clothing. Thus he gave Skipper Jobson a brief
opportunity to communicate with Applegarth,
which he did in a whisper.
"Hold up, my plucky un, I’ll help you all I
can. Ido like pluck when I sees it!”
The girl, handcuffed, moved impulsively her
braceleted hands as though to thank him for his
re-assuring words, but the steel clips reminded
her that even so slight a gesture as a handshake
was now impossible. She burst into tears, and it
seemed as thougn that native spirit of resolution
which had nerved her, in defence of her own
and her sister-transports’ honour, to immerse
Officer—and Gentleman —Bankes, had at last
vanished under the galling ignominy of her
manacles. Her head fell upon her breast, which
surged with the violence of her grief and her fear.
Bankes had promised when she had asked him
tauntingly why he did not flog her and brand her,
that he would do the one and the other, and she
would have been more than woman—more, indeed,
than human—if, hearing his wrathful tones and
seeing the infuriated gleam in his eyes, her flesh
had not crept in anticipation of the body-torturing,
soul-degrading punishment which she knew would
follow.
* • •
Noting her tears, Jobson telt “ bad,” and
though he was pretty high up in the System—
and was quite entitled to entertain the hope of
attaining still greater distinction in its service
—he came to what, all things considered, was a
very remarkable resolve. His interest coincided
with his duty, which was to throw no impediment
in the way, if not to facilitate the administration
by the Commandant, of punishment to so dread-
ful an offender as Jane Applegarth had proved
herself, and to depart from duty was to prejudice
his interests. And here let us say, to those of our
present readers who have not read the narrative
of Captain Bankes’ negotiation with that other
excellent officer of the System, James Fubster,
Require, Principal Superintendent of Convicts in
Hobart Town, on the successful issue of which
Captain Bankes had become possessed of the
bodies —the men of the Regime never inven-
toried souls—of the four girls; that the pro-
vocation which induced Applegarth to commit
the crime was no justification for it. You
can only appreciate to the full extent of its
heinousness the significance of such a deed as the
girl’s when we state it was tantamount to, if not
more infamous than, high treason. If, at that
time, British popular opinion—no, we apologise
to the people, and say, the opinion of the rulers of
Britain—held it permissible to draw on a hurdle,
to hang, to disembowel while life was still in the
body, and to quarter the palpitating carcase of a
criminal convicted of offences against the sacred
person'of British Majesty, there was all the more
reason to punish with the utmost rigour of the
Law, and the Regulations which were higher than
the Law, a person who could assault Captain
Bankes.
This is an absurd statement, you may say. Let
us reason it out. It was admitted by a Minister
in Parliament, t speaking of men like Bankes,
that the Commandant of Macquarie Harbour was
necessarily and properly endowed with a power
and an authority touching the lives of “ felons ”
which could not be exercised by the Sovereign
himself or any other person within the bounds of
the United Kingdom. If, then, the sanctity of
the divinity that did hedge so potential a person-
age had been rudely assailed, it were surely
open to him to assert his dignity by pun-
ishments unknown to British Law, but, neverthe-
less, tolerated by the System. It were nothing but
right for the men of the Regime to put the System
above the Law, and as a Penal Commandant was
admitted by a Secretary of State to be more
powerful than the Sovereign, then the penalties
for outraging the Commandant’s person should
be, if not novel, surpassingly awful. Therefore,
let Captain Bankes be justified.
A further word. Let Jane Applegarth weep as
she might ; let her flinch under the heated iron
and shrink from the barber’s shears; let her
writhe, as the scourger who had never wavered
when he gave this man five hundred lashes, and
that man three hundred, and a third a thousand,
all in one day—we can place our fingers on the
record—as that scourger flicked faint-heartedly his
cat upon her gleaming shoulders; let her in
uncouth phrase express between clenched teeth
her upbraidings of destiny, we must still say :
“ Well, well, she surely deserved it all! ” If we
don’t say so, then we must declare that it is a
toss-up which of four, Bankes, Commandant of the
Harbour, Sorell, Lieutenant-Governor of Hobart
Town, Brisbane, Governor-General in Sydney,
and Bathurst, Minister for the Colonies, in Lon-
don, was the greater scoundrel. For all knew,
the greatest man as well as the smallest, that
Officers—and Gentlemen—shaved—and flogged—
and branded—women.
* * *
Colonel Foveaux, of chaste and honoured
memory, was, in old colonial days, generally
credited with being the author of the method
which branded men built in the image of their
Creator with red-hot irons. This may be a libel
upon that representative man of the Regime, for
the invention of, even a set of branding-
irons required an ingenious faculty of which
we can find no trace in the history of
his unique personality. The chances are, look-
ing at the plain experience of the world, which
teaches that the big man always gets the credit
for owning the little man’s brains, that it was
some originally-transported underling who had
conceived the idea of an appliance which should
indelibly stamp mortal flesh. But whoever was
the originator, mattered not. Lieutenant Darrell,
, Bankes’ immediate subordinate, who had invented
the plan of marooning on the Grummet Rock and
also the pear-gag, J and who was rather a con-
noisseur in forms of torture, had introduced it on
Sarah Island. The Settlement set of irons was
not perfect alphabetically, for the labour available
in the smithy of the Harbour lacked the requisite
capacity to fashion the whole of the characters,
but Darrell, with that superfine ingenuity of his,
had devised five irons of the following patterns :
\ 0 I I =>
By combining these, sometimes with the handle
up and sometimes down, any desirable symbol
could be affixed to a convict’s body. You may,
perhaps, point out that anyone could have planned
so simple an appliance, but such a conclusion on
your part, O reader, would be hasty, and due to
the fact that you cannot fathom the necessities of
the System. Darrell could ; he did not believe in
minimising punishment, and therefore what you
regard as so trifling a device, he knew would meet
with the chiefest requirement of the penal routine.
That’s where this superfine quality came in; as
you will see.
• • •
But we must get on.
Officer—and Gentleman —Bankes, having put
himself into dry clothes, within an hour of the
landing of the Cyprus’ cargo (23 prisoners) and
passengers (4), constituted himself a Court of
Justice in which to try (and condemn, for that
was a foregone conclusion) Jane Applegarth, aged
23, per Duke of Wellington, No. 513, who had
been transported originally for seven years, and
who had been consigned to Macquarie Harbour
nominally as a private soldier’s wife, but, actually
and without her knowledge or consent, to serve as
one of four concubines for the Commandant.
As Commandant Bankes he presided, as Cap-
tain Bankes he prosecuted, as Bankes, the insulted
and half-drowned gentleman, he gave evidence
for the prosecution. He was in full-dress, as he
sat in No. 1 school-room, which was the West-
minster Hall of Sarah Island, but, as a matter of
comfort, he unhooked his sword and let it rest upon
the Bible. When Backhouse and Walker visited
the Harbour, nine years later, they regretted that
there was not an ampler supply of Bibles, but
they were assured that the Settlement population
had never felt any particular discomfort on
account of the small number of copies of the book
on the Island. “You see, sirs, ” had said Major
Bailee, “ there was always the Commandant’s
copy ! ”
Upon the Bible rested the sword, and the im-
plement of authority which was to be wielded by
Justice was thus sanctified. All that was wanted
to perfect the arrangement, was a blazon of the
Royal Arms and a “G.R.” These were missing.
A guard of ten soldiers,, however, did something
to atone for the deficiency.
“Call Jane Applegarth,” ordered the Bench —
and the girl was ushered in. Her face was tear-
stained, though her eyes were dry. She shivered,
but it might have been from cold; it was not
necessarily fear. Except the guard and the
Sergeant, the Judge and the prisoner, who were
also the accused and the accuser, were alone.
Jobson, Bowser, the skipper and mate of the
schooner Cyprus, who had seen the assault upon
the high and reverend person of the Commandant,
were in the vicinity of the Court, as were also the
three other girls, but none was at present per-
mitted access to the scene where Justice was
about to revel.
“Jane Applegarth, I charge you with having
assaulted an officer m His Majesty’s forces while
engaged in the performance of his duty as Com-
mandant of the Penal Establishment situate at
Macquarie Harbour within His Majesty’s Colony
of Yan Dieman’s Land, whereby his life was
endangered and a breach of good discipline com-
mitted. What do you say— ‘ Guiltv or Not
Guilty ’?”
“Who was the of’cer?” said the girl, speaking
very civilly.
“The officer? Why, of course, I was the
officer ! Are you guilty or not guilty ?”
“Were ye engaged in the performance of yer
dooty when I ducked ye ?”
“ Guilty or Not Guilty ?” reiterated the Justice.
“ I won’t answer till ye answer me !” Then she
turned to the military guard, and though Bankes
' ainly strove io stop the torrent of her words, she
thus addressed them :
“Look here, sodgers, be ye men? If ye are,
and ye ever remember yer mother or yer sisters,
or yer sweethearts, yell never let me be punished
for a-throwin’ of that scoundrel into the sea. I
can’t tell you men what he called me an’ t’other
girls, who came with me, or what he told us he
wanted us for. I ain’t a of’cer an’ I ain’t a gen’l’-
man, an’ so I can’t say or think such things. But
I can tell you this—he said as he was agoin’ to
shave me, and flog me, and brand me, an’ to show
he meant it, see what he put on me !” (She held
up her handcuffed hands.) “ See them,” she went
on, with a great scorn struggling for utterance
against the lump which come into her woman's
throat. “See them! See the bright things he
puts upon a girl to show that he means to do the
other things ! But I’d sooner wear these than do
what he wants us to do !”
She stopped for a second. Bankes mumbled
something; she took no heed, but dropping her
voice to a bitter satiric whisper, that should have
pricked the consciences of the guard as the steel-
points of their own bayonets were wont to prick
the flesh of rebellious male transports, she re-
peated her enquiry, “ Be ye men ? ”
She waited for a reply. None came ; the men
rested at ease on their muskets. Then—
She turned her back upon them, and spoke to
Bankes : “Go along, Cap’n—do yer best. If the
chaps of my own sort won’t help me, if they won’t
shoot ye where ye sit, yer not to blame, it’s them.
I’m no scholard, but I knows this—there would
be no devils like you, if there were no men like
them to take the devil s pay.”
* # #
Bankes called in Jobson, Bowser, and the
girls Cockburn, Reade and Perry.
“ Captain Jobson, will you tell the court ? ” said
the Judge-cum-Prosecutor, “what you saw of this
assault upon me.”
The moment had come for Jobson to act upon
the resolve which very injudiciously in his own
interests he had framed. This was that he would
foil Officer—ai d Gentleman—Bankes.
“I didn’t see nothing of the assault,” he
asserted, bluffly, “ I was a-lookin’ after my
vessel. ”
“ Jobson !” exclaimed the astonished Com-
mandant, “Jobson !”
“That’s what I say.”
“ I’ll swear you, sir,” said Bankes. Handing
fSee “Tales of the System” (No. 20)—Lieut. Darrell’s
Predicament.
the Bible to the Skipper—his sword fell with a
clank to the floor through his hurried movement —
Bankes put Jobson on his oath to tell the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
Now Jobson had seen the whole affair. Bankes,
having made openly what amounted to an in-
famous proposal to the four girls, as they
stood on the vessel’s deck, and having
been met by a sharp rebuff from Applegarth,
had proceeded to arrest and handcuff her
with his own white and rigid hands. Through
the lurching of the vessel occasioned by Jobson’s
own instructions to the steersman, the Captain
fell while performing his exalted duty, and Apple-
garth had taken advantage of his plight to trans-
fer him from the vessel’s deck to the briny billows.
Jobson, we repeat, had seen the whole thing, but,
nevertheless, on oath persisted that he had ob-
served nothing.
“ I’ll commit you for perjury,” said Bankes.
c “Do so, at your peril,” said the other man.
“ Don’t you forget, sir, that I’m a free man. You
can’t play fast and loose with free men like me.”
But, nevertheless, the schooner Captain was
hustled out of Court by some of the guard, throw-
ing, as he went out, a final word of encouragement
to the poor prisoner. “ Keep up heart, Sis, keep
up heart.”
Mr. iiowser was by no means so recalcitrant a
witness for the prosecution as his superior officer.
Whether it was that he had a greater regard for
his oath, or whether it was that he felt that
Jobson’s conduct had placed within his grasp, the
mastership of the Government schooner, we may
not say, but he very circumstantially deposed to
the brutal, diabolical attempt upon the life of
that venerated functionary who presided over that
Court.
...iy questions to ask the witness?” queried
the Bench.
“Did you not hear that man say . . . ?”
“No,” said Mr. Bowser, “no, I don’t rec’lect.”
“ Do you rec’lect on the passage down atellin’
me an’ the girls that Cap’n Bankes was an of’cer
and a genTman? Ye said he was a perfect
genTman, didn’t ye?
“I rec’lect that,’* said Bowser, making a most
brilliant bid for the Skippership. “I speaks of
pe’ple as I finds ’em. I alius found him a puffeck
genTman! ”
“ Is it a perfect genTraan’s conduct to lay traps
for a poor girl, to deceive poor girls- ay, an’ not
one noor girl alone, but four? Is that yer gent’l’-
man?” 8
ocand down, witness,” said the Bench.
If Bowser answered, history failed to catch his
accents, overborne as they were by the voice of
one who seemed to have modelled his excellence
upon that of the First Gentleman in Europe.
• * *
“ Call Lie girl Perry !” Julia Perry stood
forward and kissed the book, but Jobson’s talk
with her outside had materially operated upon
her memory. “She couldn’t rec’leet nothin’”
either. Equally forgetful was Minnie Reade.
She, too, persisted, in spite of threats from the
Bench, in saying that she knew nothing.
“I will treat you as an unwilling witness,”
declared the Bench, “ unless you tell the truth.”
She remained firm. Nevertheless, Bankes was
not to be beaten.
“ I’ll send you back to Hobart Town at once,”
he said, “in irons—mark you, girl, in irons,
unless you tell the truth.”
The_ quiet-looking lass, for answer, retorted :
“I wish you would, sir. I’d get a letter away
then to Mrs. Ery.”§
Applegai th’s interests considered, the response
was a very unfortunate one, for it put the Com-
mandant on his mettle. Accustomed to the exer-
cise of absolute power and arbitrary jurisdiction,
Bankes, though in his cooler moments he was not
indifferent to the possibilities of offending the
flaccid public opinion of Hobart Town, could not
brook so direct a threat, and the girl’s speech,
kindly conceived as it was, simply brought down
upon her his wrath.
“I’ll charge you with being an accessory,” he
said, “ unless you tell the truth.”
The girl would possibly have stuck to her denial
but the prisoner interposed.
“Say ye saw it, Minnie, say ye saw it! He
has made up his mind to punish me an’ nothin’ ye
can do will stop him.”
And so Minnie Reade, 18, per Duke of Welling-
ton, No. 54G, testified that she had witnessed the
assault. Now, of course, she had committed per-
jury, but, singularly enousrh, the Judge said no-
thing on that point—doubtless because he had
gained what he wanted.
“Have you anything to ask the witness,
pris’ner ?”
“No,” she answered, “ ’cept not to furget when
I’m away from her what I told her about you.”
Pretty Fanny Cockburn when called upon for
her testimony, was not prepared to support her
fellow-transport’s view of Captain Bankes’ con-
duct. On her first introduction to the Commandant,
she had, as you will remember, bestowed a coy and
coquettish glance on him, which had not been
without something of an effect upon Bankes’ heart
—as susceptible to a pretty woman’s glance, as it
was hardened to the touch of outraged justice, and
Cockburn, after careful consideration with herself,
had come to the conclusion that if the other girls
were going to be virtuous fools, she at least would
not. She did not, in short, see why she should
not be permanently installed in Officers’Quarters.
We may here anticipate a little, we give you the
assurance on the authority of the Rev. J. A.
Manton, first official chaplain to the Harbour, that
she was still there when, many years subsequently,
he visited the Settlement. Captain Bankes had
long been dead-drowned by the hands of Jane
Applegarth—other Commandants had come, and
other Commandants had gone, but still pretty,
frail Fanny Cockburn had remained on. Even
when Parson Mam on remonstrated she ex-
pressed her intention to continue as the current
Commandant’s “ guest ’’—and meek, unconscious
dove !—“ She could not see any particular harm in
so doing.” Neither could the Commandant !
She saw no particular harm, either, in answer-
ing the very leading questions which Com-
mandant-Justice Bankes put to her. We will not
recapitulate them ; that would be unnecessary, as
you will form some idea, from what has gone
before, of the method in which he secured her
testimony. What we are concerned with is the
influence of her evidence upon the poor prisoner,
Jane could hardly believe her ears, as she heard
the witness, not merely depose to the facts, but
go far beyond them in her eagerness to propitiate
the uniformed deity of the Harbour, for her simple
nature had clung to Cockburn’s as rude and un-
couth ones so often do to delicate and super-
ficially-refined characters. In the long voyage
from “Home,” in the factory at Hobart, and on
the three weeks’ passage from the Capital to the
Harbour, she had thrown, as it were, her own
personality around Cockburn as a protecting
mantle. Her love for the girl had held her bond-
woman more closely than the System had done,
and her attitude towards Bankes on the declara-
tion of his infamous intentions towards her in
particular, and all the girls in general, had been
prompted more by solicitude for Cockburn’*
purity than by any regard for herself, or Perry,
or Reade. Thus, to have her affection thrown
back upon herself, was to hurt her bitterly,
and to have it made apparent te her i*
addition that Fanny was willing to re-
sign herself to the arms of Officer —and gentle-
man and satyr—Bankes, crushed her in very
agony. The vase of her tears seemed broken, so
fierce was their outburst; and she flung herself
upon the floor of the Court and there lay prostrate,
refusing to be comforted by Perry, who, un-
checked, bent over and bade her “ never mind.”
• » *
We will, to-day, pass over the shaving
scene, the flogging episode, and the branding.
We may not surfeit you - horrors, like sweets,
should be dished up at intervals. But we will
take you to Limeburners’ Point whence, a week
after her experience of the Court, Jane Apple-
garth, almost bald, and with a festering letter
“ W ” upon her shoulders, which had been placed
artistically above the stripe marks that Officer—
and Gentleman —Bankes had imprinted upon the
smooth, white surface—not, of course, by his own
hands, but through the medium of a scourger—
was removed under military guard. Limeburners’
Point, at this time, was populated by five good-
conduct transports, and one convict-overseer, who
all lived—that is to say, dined, supped, and slept
—in one hut, built partly of dried mud, partly of
acacia-stems.
x.iin uiu, perhaps sixteen by fourteen, was the
solitary tenement at Limeburners Point.
And yet Officer—and Gentleman—Bankes sent
Jane Applegarth, woman-transport, there!
• * #
She had been there a week whem the
pilot-boat, which brought the lime-burning gang
its weekly supply of rations, ran up to the beach.
Jobson was on board ; he was under suspension,
and had been removed by Bankes’ fiat from the
skippership, but being a “free on arrival ” man,
Bankes had not dared to imprison him. He had,
however, been confined to the pilot station till the
schooner Cyprus was in readiness to return. The
bribe of a pipeful, all round the crew, of tobacco
had induced the pilot to promise to take Jobson
with him on his next ration-trip. One of the
things the great men of the System were most
reluctant to learn was, that not one subordinate
in a hundred could be depended upon to resist a
bribe—in which, of course, the subordinates only
followed the example of the great men themselves.
Jobson was the first out of the boat. He forced
his way over the shingle, covered thickly, as it
was, with decomposing and noisome kelp, upon
which the lime gang had more than once been
compelled to exist when stormy weather —or
official forgetfulness—had prevented the pilot-
boat bringing the rations, and hurried to the hut.
There he found Jane —Heavens, how he found
her!
“Poor girl! Poor girl,” he said, with
the tear-drops coursing down the ridges rough-
sea-weather of varied latitudes had scored in his
cheeks ; “ I wish I’d killed him, and by G
I’ll do it yet ! ”
“ No,” said Jane, “ don’t do that ! ” Jane was
not crying—she said then—and not for many years
did her experience contradict her words—that she
would never cry again.
“ What ! ” cried, almost shouted, Jobson,
“what, would you let that man go, after what he
has done? I ’udn’t think so much of yer, Janie,
if yer couldn’t hate him with—with ” The
crust of this man’s nature, which had been formed
during long years of acquaintance with the Sys-
tem, had been penetrated by the mystic shaft of
that reverence of the man for the woman, which
has at once been the curse and the salvation of
the race. He, whom the groans of a thousand men
had failed to move, at the sigh, and the accent of
suffering of one for whom he cared, had stripped
himself of place, of pay, and of authority, and
had now gone to the opposite pole of opinion. To
him the Regime, and its instruments were now
abhorrent.
“ With wot ? ” the woman asked.
“ With the hate I have now ! ” —the pregnant
volume of that word !—“ that I now bear the
S’tem !”
“ ’Ate ’im,” she said with a flash of her old fire,
“ ’ate ’im ; I ’ate ’im so much, that I’d give myself
to ’im, so that at the very moment ’is lips touched
mine, I cud stab ’im to the ’eart!”
Her w rds, and the intensity of the passion
which rent her, astounded Jobson, but gratified
him. They did another thing, too—they inspired
him with an idea, which he communicated to her.
In very halting phrase he spoke, for the man had
learnt to strongly love her, even in her shame and
her desolation, and he had invested her with that
sacredness which the true lover, from Dante and
Petrarch to the Cully of the slum Lais, ever in-
vests his mistress, and he was fearful of violating
it, even by a verbal suggestion.
“Send to him,” he said, “and tell him it will
be all right. But ask him to come here, as a
favour to you, because—you ain’t got anything to
wear ’mong the other girls. I know something of
Bankes—him, though I couldn’t ha’ thought he’d
have done this to a woman !- and, I believe, he’ll
come. And I’ll be here, too —you get him to come
out round the Point—and I’ll be there, hard by
the ti-tree—and then—l’ll—finish him.”
The girl pondered, flushed, and, then, of a
sudden, paled.
“Oh, Cap’n Jobson, y e are a good ’un, but ye
won’t do that fur me, for I won’t let ye, I’mae'oin’
to kill him myself if I get the chance. ’Sides,
ye’d be hanged—it don’t matter wot ’appens to
me, but I ain’t a-goin’ to let you be swung on my
’count, ’’
“No, lass,” said Jobson. “I won’t be swung,
nor you neither. The pilot-boat men don't love
Bankes, nor the lime-gang, and then, after I’ve—
we’ve—finished him, ttie cutter’ll take me to the
schooner, and once aboard and Bankes dead, I’ll
show Bowser who’s skipper. I’ll run down here
with her then, put you on board, and get you off.
If the doc. sends any despatches along, on my
soul they’ll never reach Hobart Town !”
But she would not consent. And then, at last,
he told her that he would do the honest thing by
her—he would marry her—if she would assist him
in the realisation of his scheme. Even then, with
the Paradise of the convict woman flung open
before her, she would not promise, but, finally,
they struck the happy mean of a compromise.
She should drown Bankes, if she could she had
thrown him into the sea once, and she wished to
throw him in a second time in such a way that he
would not come out—alive. Had she not, indeed,
told the Commandant so on his first defining his
intention to appropriate the girls? And if she
could not drown Bankes, if he were too strong for
her, then and then only was Jobson to come to
her assistance. Between the two, they could
scarcely doubt their success, if Bankes would only
Come to the Point. And after, well—
“ Wife or pot, Jobson, I’ll go with ye to the
world’s end an’ be true to ye till death. Strike
/See Tub Bulletin, 25th April, 1881: “ The Immersion
ot Captain Bankes. ’■
t Lord Goderich.


Colkmank and Sons sngar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
Write to Messrs. Pike Bros., Brisbane,
for price-list of their goods for gentlemen’s wear ;
also for self-measurement forms and patterns
from the Tailoring Department.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, '.Mi Bathurst-street, Sydney,
The Assam Blend has stood the test of 10 years.
Wonderful Cures ElTectecl.
SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE.
All sufferers
who use Herr
Rassmussen’s
Celebrated Her-
bal Remedies
are entitled to
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s valuable
advice by post
until they are,
cured, and may
also send for ad-
vice for their
relatives, entire-
ly free of charge.
A self-addressed
and stamped en-
velope should,
however, always
be sent for the
reply.
The Remedies
are sent any-
where unob-
served, by post,
rail or steamer.
p
A Valuable
Book will be
sent free on re-
ceipt ot a self-
addressed 6d.
■ tamped en-
velope, which
contains m ost
valuable advice,
useful hints,
and numerous
receipts.
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s Pills all im-
prove the com-
plexion by their
wonderful power
of purifying the
Blood, and al-
ways change a
Sallow and
Freckled Com-
plexion to a most
beautiful and
enchanting one,
proofs of which
will be found in
his book. They
simply are
UNEXCELLED,
liNKq CALLED,
WODDKSFDL,
and
WITHOUT A
RIVAL.
Professor Herr Rassmussen, F.H.S.,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist and Expert Specialist in Blood and Nervous Diseases, Professor of Medical Botany,
Author of “ The Natural Doctor,” and honorably mentioned in “ The Centennial History of New South Wales
for Great Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer and Proprietor
OF THE
—CELEBRATED—
DENMARK
Herb-. I Remedies-
Which have been proved
to have cured over 50,000
sufferers, from var ous
complaints, principally
sufferers from Private,
Skin, Blood and Nervous
Diseases. This Gold Medal
was presented to Herr
Rassmussen by several of
his Cured Patients, who
had all been permanently
cured by his Celebrated
and Famous Denmark
Herbal Remedies, and we
feel quite pleased to re-
commend them to Suf-
ferers.
m
%
ft ~ r K
PRESENTED!© <£
*P.. ’ ~~1. r_JT
*
ESQ
&l ® —>eomNisryrz-.. o'
V.I
O AsaTOK EN orCRATITUDE cjj
, £ mMINEoFHUPArIEUTS^fi
Uy
Discoverer and Proprietor
OP THE
—CELEBRATED—
DENMARK
Herbal Kemedlcs.
Guaranteed Cures.
Denmark Vitality Pills.
Denmark Lock Cure Pills.
Denmark Female Restorer
Pills.
Denmark Liver and Kid-
ney Pills.
Denmark Hair and Skin
Beautifier.
Each of the above Herbal
Remedies are registered all
over the world. The sum
of £2O will be given to any
person who can give genuine
information which will
lead to the conviction of
an imitator.
Opinions of the Press.
Genuine Testimonials.
It is a well-known fact that Herr Rassinussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures
during the past few yea s, as his numerous testimonials
will prove.— Sydney BdliLeiin.
To Herr Rasmussen.—Dear Sir,— This is to certify that
\ our remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease,
after many doctors had tailed.— John Rbyholds, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen. —We have been shown
some excellent testimonials of the great
cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist. —Austra-
lian Star.
Herr Rassmussen has now been estab-
lished in the colonies for 10 years.—
Sunday Times, April 28,1888.
Herr Rassmussen has become a cele-
brity in the curing of all diseases of the
nervous system. His name has become
a wonder throughout the Southern Hemi-
sphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.—
Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
Herr Rassmussen.—The remarkable
cures which he has effected are pretty
generally known. — Balmain Observer,
April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters
from Herr Rassmussen’s cured patients,
requesting us to make known to the
public the wonderful medical skill this
remarkable man possesses, and he has
just been presented with a Gold Medal
from several of his cured patients.—
Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen, the Danish Herba-
list, has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, which he has
received, certifying to a number of itn-
m
1
The Nervous System.
To Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated
Danish Herbalist.— Dear Benefactor.—l
have much pleasure to inform the public
that your remedies cured my wile of an
internal complaint of a very serious
nature, after all the doctors had given
her up — Archibald Macfarlanb, Eden
Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To Herr Rassmussen, Specialist in
Nervous Diseases.—Dear Sir,—l hereby
thank you for the great cure your reme-
dies performed on me for a very compli-
cated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous
Debility.— Thomas Mudiman, Merchant
Tailor, King-street, Newtown.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.
—Dear Sir and Benefa dor,—lt gives me
great pleasure to testify to your wonder-
ful skill in the treatment of Disease.
Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend your
remedies to all. Yours, gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-street, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Specialist in
Nervous Diseases —Dear Sir, —I hereby
certify that I have been under your
skilful treatment for a very obstinate
case of nt-rvous debility, and that your
remedies cured me, one course of your
portant cures effected by his remedies.— Sydney Evening
News, March 7, 1890.
Vitality Pills being sufficient.— D. M‘Neill, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
. -\'l //,
brDENMARK
%
til
%
%
%
%
Co
%v
w
'f
%
4
p
p
wl#
■#- TH
p
'?«r
&
i
#
p
'REGISfS
%
p
p
A Guaranteed
Cure for
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
Australian Verdict —Best Herbal Remedies in Australia.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
CELEBRATED HERBAL VITALITY REMEDIES
Registered in all the Colonies.
Awarded Gold Medal by Cured Sufferers.
o
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
Despondency. Melancholy and Errors, Barrenness of both
Sexes. Price—23s. 6d. per course; small box, 65.; posted.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS,
Best Remedy in the world for Irregularity, Whites, and cures
all Complaints that cause Barrenness. Price—23s. 6d. per
course ; small box, 65., posted,
DENMARK LOCK CURE PILLS,
A guaranteed cure for all Diseases of the B ood and will
thoroughly cure all Discharges, Scaldmgs, and Contagious
Strictures. Purely herbal, Price-23*. 6a. per
course; small box, 6s , posted.
DENMARK LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS,
Excellent for Oostiveness, Indigestion, Wind, and Dyspepsia.
In boxes at Is., 2s. 6d., and 55.; posted, 6d extra per box.
DENMARK SKIN AND HAIR BEAUTIFIER,
A guaranteed cure for preventing Dandruff, ana the Hair
turning Grey, and eradicates Pimples and Freckles. Price
2s. 6d. per packet; posted, 3s.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Always send Post Office Order or Cash in Registered Letter.
Make Post Office Orders or Cheques payable to
‘Hans Rassmussen, Sydney.’ Add Is. for exchange if Cheque*
Send Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address Letters-HERR RASSMUSSEN,
Box 208. G.P.0., Sydney.
Universal Opinion —Without their Equal in the World.
m
. .\N /
%
%
%
%
%
p
\\
%
m
p
MJOJS
p
if
aw
p
p
/
i
p
LEGISTS]
p
p
p
A Guaruiteed
Cure for
XSRTOUS DBBIUTT.
All Herr Rassmussen’s Celebrated Herbal Remedies
MAY ALSO BE OBTAINED AT HIS CENTRAL DEPOT
No. 8. Central Arcade, Ceorge Street Sydney.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
“The Aldermen of a Municipality might
he, like Potiphar’s wife, above suspicion.”—
N.Q. Alderman.
Wolfe's Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
A Cambrian Society has just been formed
in Sydney. We draw its attention to the fact
that the Victorian hangman has the cheek to call
himself Jones.
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The person, male or female, who publicly
declines to play cards with another person, Kale
or female, because he or she is under the impres-
sion that the other he or she is a cheat, usually
bases the object ion on the grounds that so-and-so
is “ too lucky.”
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps
The latest Murkan perjury is to the effect
that a vein of “natural cheese” has been dis-
covered in Iowa It is situate at a depth of 89
feet, and the lode is nearly four feet thick, and of
splendid quality. While we are on this subjec t
we may mention that we have found certain ge< -
logical indications near the Parramatta River
which lead us to believe that a great deposit of
sandwiches and bottled beer will be discovered
thereabouts. The reef crops out in a public house,
and seems to be rich and well-defined.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
Every bodynow-a-days drinks W olfe’s Schnapps
Give the London and Sydney Tea Co. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.
XT se 100 Y ean
THE POOR MAN’S FRIEND.
DR.
gKIN
J^KIN
j^KIN
J^KIN
ROBERTS’ OINTMENT.
DISEASES. THIS VALUABLE OINTMENT
(as originally prepared by G. L. ,
DISEASES. Roberts, M.D.) is confidently
DISEASES, recommended as an unfailing
remedy for Wounds of every de-
DISEASES. scription, Chilblains, Scorbutic
DISEASES Eruptions, Burns, Sore and In-
flamed Eyes, Eczema, &c.
Dr. Roberts’ Alterative Pills.
gKIN
gKIN
j^KIN
gKIN
(^KIN
For the BLOOD and SKIN.
DISEASES. Very effectual in the cure of that
form of skin disease which shows
DISEASES. itaelf jn painfu , oracks in the gkin
DISEASES. of hands and in all acaly
diseases. They may be taken at
DISEASES. a n times without confinement or
DISEASES. chanße of d,et -
Sold at Is. IJd., 2s. 9d., 11a and
DISEASES. 225. each, by the Proprietors,.
Bridport, England.
p
p
p
Address- -
“Adam Bede,” c/o Abbott,
Post Oifice Chambers, SYDNEY, N.s. W.
me, ’ate me, or kill me, I’ll alius be faithful to ye,
Jobson, an’ never grumble wotever ye do.”
* # •
Officer—and Gentleman —Bankes (we will
not let you forget, that Bankes was a Gentleman
by birth and his Majesty’s Commission) tumbled j
into the trap. When the pilot coxswain com-
municated Jane’s message —that she wanted to
•ee him, to beg his pardon, and to do what he
wanted, and would promise never to interfere
between him again and any women—he was not
above experiencing the fierce joy which is sup-
posed to be the privilege of a man —and him only
—who meets a worthy foeman. Bankes had been
worsted for a time, and, therefore, this act of sub-
mission by Jane Applegarth was like incense to
his nostrils.
The day after the receipt of the message, he
attired himself in neat undress and made the
trip. He had actually some thought of over-
aweing the Pointers in full, military fig, with red
coat and shako, and pipeclay belts, and clanking
sword, and was only dissuaded from his intention
by the reflection that the splashing spray on the
trip down and up would stain the first and rust
the last. When he went up again, the question
of uniform did not interest him so much.
With craven abjectness of attitude and gesture,
the lime-burners and their overseer welcomed
him. And after a formal inspection of them,
and the making of certain official inquiries as to
their welfare—there was a regulation signed by
Governor Macquarie which ordered that all Com-
mandants, in visiting outlying stations, should
inquire as to the welfare of the convicts, “their
sleeping accommodation and their rations ” (the
whole farce of examination might have occupied
twenty seconds) —he demanded the presence of
the woman.
“ Oom’dant,” grinned the overseer, “she is
modest, she is ! She don’t a-like to come out, sez
she, an’ see yer Honor, with other men bout, as
she ain’t got any togs, so to speak, sir. Shedidn t
come down well purwided, sir, not by no means,
an’ things ’a been a leetle bit rough ere, sir.”
Where is she?” demanded Bankes. “Where
is she?” _
‘ ’ She is in the cave, sir, round the point. She
’ud like to see you in private, sir.”
Bankes went round the Point, crushing with his
manly step the pebbles and the rotti g seaweed.
He went so eagerly, you would have tliought it
had been an assignation with a duchess, but, to
his fired imagination, it mattered not who the
woman was, it was still a woman who had
resisted him, who had defied him, but was now
about to throw herself at his feet and into his
arms. He did not remember —possibly, it would
have been all the same had he remembered —that
Applegarth had been made the sport of the con-
victs of the lime-gang. Under his isolated circum-
stances, tastidiousness in amours would have been
a vice.
She stood erect, leaning against a pillar of
rock that had been honeycombed by the fret of
the wave. In the gusty wind which broke against
the Point ere it howled eddying the spray into the
harbour, the one outer garment which he and the
other scoundrels and satyrs had left her was
driven in upon her form, and the outlines of a
figure, which, had it Ven decorated by the fingers
of a London costumiere and been surrounded by
the ornate splendour of a drawing-room, would
have been termed statuesque, struck his artistic
eye and inflamed his sensual passion. He looked
at her face, the newly-grafted hardness and fresh-
dinted wrinkles of which she was trying to soften
—ah, so piteously !—into a coy attractiveness,
and smiled—smiled the smile of a rake who had
been triumphant in his evil.
“ Ha, ha —this you, Jane ! You have come to
your senses, have you? You see it is no use
fighting with me ? Had you only done what I
wanted before, and kept your mouth shut, you
would not have been the recipient of—ha, ha !
the delicate attentions —he, he!—of those —ha,
ha !—gentlemen round the corner!”
Jane looked down, her breast heaved —he
thought it was with compunction, or fear, or
desire —and she twined her hands convulsively, as
■he exclaimed :
“ Y—e—es, sir ! ”
“Ah, well, my dear, we will let byegones be
byegones now. You’ve been a fool, Jeanie, but
you will be wiser in the future ”—here he laid his
hand on her shoulder—“and a deuce sight more
comfortable you’ll be up in my rooms, than in the
men’s hut yonder. What’s that?” It was a
•light rustle in the neighbouring scrub which had
caught his ear. How could he guess how near
Jobson was to breaking his promise—not to in-
terfere.
“ Nothing ! ” said the girl. She moved her
head negatively—to the face glowering in the
“ Come! ” he placed the other hand on the other
shoulder, as he spoke; “ give me a kiss then, my
girl, and say we’ll be friends ! ”
Save for a gurgled “ Oh, God ! ” a second later,
those were Commandant Bankes’ last words. The
contact of his embrace gave Applegarth the
opportunity she had been wishing for, and with one
impetuous gesture she had her thumbs into his
throat on either side of his wind-pipe, and, crook-
ing her ancle under his, threw him backwards, and
herself upon him. His head struck the shingle.
The fall had not rendered him senseless, and,
even then, Jane might not have achieved her
dreadful object—Bankes, despite his vices, had
•till something left of the well-knit frame of the
disciplined soldier—but for a sudden parting of
the ti-tree— and the fall of a sapling’s butt upon
the doomed wretch’s forehead.
The blow stunned him, and he was powerless in
the girl’s grasp. Never freeing her hands from his
throat, by a forward movement she forced his
head into the lapping waves, and there, in less
than six inches of water, she held him till a vib-
rating shudder told her that there was no occasion
to hold him longer, and that her honour and her
00-mates’ honour had been avenged.
m * *
Jane Applegarth was not hanged, though
how she freed herself from Bankes’ embrace
became known, by-and-bye, to the Doctor, who
was Acting-Commandant, vice Bankes, deceased.
And when he did hear of it, Jane was Mrs. Job-
son, and over the hills, and seas, and far away.
PRICK WARUNG.
The Bragtown Volunteers.
(A Playful Ditty, sung in a N. W.Q. Strike Camp)
It’s grand to be a Soger when
There’s nothing else to do
But point your gun at unarmed men
And draw your bally screw.
Watch how the Bragtown Volunteers
Responded, one and all,
And bade a long farewell to beers—
All at the bugle’s call.
■Echo Chords. —But tell the Scabs and Squatters, BUI,
The Sogers, and the rest,
That we’re alive and kicking still—
The Bushmen of the West.
Their Capting stepped in front, Bold Bunk,
And to his men did say :
“ My boys, I glory in your pluck;
You’re Queensland’s prop and stay.
We’ll give that noisy shearer push
A taste of martial show ;
There’s little danger of a brush,
Or, else-—/ wouldn’t go !”
Echo Chords.
“We lads can skite with any man
That ever cut a throat,
Or foraged in the far Soudan
And cotched an Ass and Goat!
When we return, the girls will rush
To mash and give us grub,
And medals bright, and lots of lush,
And tick at every pub. ”
Echo Chords.
“ But, ere we start, we’ll here agree
To, one and all, be true ;
If you will always stand by me,
I’ll always stand by you.
But, should some fluke bring on a fight,
And funk upset your mind,
I ask this favour as my right—
Please, don’t leave me behind /”
Echo Chorus. —But, tell the Scabs and Squatters, Bill,
The Sogers and the rest.
That we’re alive and kicking still-
The Bushmen of the West.
HUGHENDEN.


HOLJJSWOKTH, MCPHERSON & CO.,
254 & 256 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COO KING &5 HEA.TI3XTG- STOVES.
IN NEWEST DESIGNS.
WITH AT.T. TH3 Hi,nr IMIFROV £3 MEDNTTa.
THE
PARRAMATTA”
CTOVE.
tw A SP I: CIAL I T V
p
ep
%&JiSisiiSsSii
Wa
Suitable for WOOD or
COAL, having an adjustable
Fire-Box, easily cleaned
and drop-door.
The Oven-door opens from
the fire, and the Oven is so
constructed to ensure quick
and even heating, with small
consumption of fuel.
&
To be had of all Ironmongers and Storekeepers.
BUTCHERS’ REQUISITES.
Sausage Machines and Fill©**
SCALES, CHOPPERS, CLEAVERS.
SALTING PUMPS, &a
Sheep Shears, Fencing* Wire, Rabbit-proof Wetting*.
o
<
O
&
p
O <■
Robertson’s Whisky.
11 rummer .Stout.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
rbgistkred Silver Grlit, or Pile Cure,
PM.
A
%
Is the recipe of a celebrated German
physician. This specific for Piles is a
Sure and Safe Curb. Testimonials
from all parts of the Colonies.
Price, 2s. 6d. per Jar; by Post 3s.
The Testimonials are a proof of the
effectiveness of the Cure, which will be
forwarded with each Jar.
To be had at Leading Chemists—
Messrs. Washington H. Soul, Mar-
shall’s Australian Drug Co., &c.
Apply- JOHN POPE,
Care of Harrison & Co.,
Tkadk Makk ' 194 Castlereagh Street.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
i/t
r
WHERE THERE’S A WILL THERE’S A WAY.
DrSPEER
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. AH apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., theCHRONICand SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours— lC
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to Sp m.
KTervous IDet>ility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS AND
SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion, for hiamany
years of practice with this dreadful disease enables him
to remove all traces of it and to return the victims to full
VIGOUR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills:—
1. AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 81s. lor
five boxes,
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3. —“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his— A., Extremely
Moderate Charges ; 8., Effectual and Rapid Treatment;
C., Absolute and Permanent Cure.
<S
Tif
Ewing'’s Indelible
Marking- Ink.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
the Elite of the Australasian Colonies. _ _
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist. ‘I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. —Signed, Wm. Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE.
■ r-i-t
I* .v/ A\ ;j i;V(jjp
D
A
«af
•V
SCPTCHWHISKEY
Bass’ Pale A.le
G-uinueßa’ Extra, Stout
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
AKE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
HOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
Everybody Should Read
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and Verse,
— by —
Bulletin” w r Iter a
):(
Handsome CLOTH BINDING, 2s. 6d., Post Paid.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W. ,T. Douglas,
% Bathurst-street, Sydney.
“Assam,” “Cup,” and “ Hindoo ” Blends of tea-
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Hindoo Blend, a blend of choicest Indian teas.
p
p
1 4-
WPmng*©
Length 4 *-! 10- Depth 2-.l'-
~TS the moat complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price,
i Seven Octaves. Full Trichord, Iron Frame. Patent Check Action. Braaa
Fra Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
■a powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases
This Piano is introduced by W tt PAIJXG 4 CO., L.jiitid, for the
, purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every hoiiaohold an
opportunity of sqpplying hia home with a tiratiolasa Piano at a pnee heretofore
jpaid lor a much inferior instrument,
p
p
p
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps*
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
If in need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps
p
Tlie Hoad to Fortune !
Experience teaches us that one of the safest investments to be got is land clos» to large centres
of population, if bought at low rates. Such a chance now presents itself in WESTERN AUS-
TRALIA, and persons buying land there now will reap the same benefits as the early buyers of
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE have done. We have SPLENDID BUILDING SITES at PERTH
from £l5 each, CITY BLOCKS for £25, on very easy terms. Also, ALLOTMENTS and BLOCKS
at ALBANY from £lO each. £1 deposit and a few shillings a week will meet the payments. All
guaranteed good, level, building land, and a Free Deed to every purchaser. Send for plans to
T. TATE & CO., 278 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. (Interesting Books, with Maps, Views, etc,
Is. each. Send stamps.)
TUJE CELEBRATED
EXCEL
ALL OTHERS!
FIRST PRIZES
—ALL
BXSiIBITIOITS
p
Wholesale Depjfc:
231 CLARENCE-ST
SYDNEY.
PIPES
Regd.
By Special Appointment to H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES.
Buy Direct
PURE LINENS
AND
Damasl( Table Linen
FROM
The Oldest Establishment for Linen in the North of Ireland.
SUPERIOR QUALITY.—IMMENSE SAVING.
“ The celebrated Damask Table Linen from the Royal Manufactory, Ardoync , stands unrivalled."
Our Silk and Linen Tea Cloths and Dinner Table Centres are the richest things yet produced. Openwork and Fancy
Linen Goods in endless variety. Ladies and Gentlemen furnishing or replenishing should write for Price Lists and
Samples. A Parcel 2-lbs. weight can he sent bv Parcel Post for Is. 6d., and for each lb. additional up to 11-lbs.,
9d. per lb. Large Orders forwarded bv best and cheapest route.
• ART LINENS.—EMBROIDERY CA VAS.-DRESS CAMBRICS.
Murorf Belfast. 1 MURPHY & ORR, Belfast, Ireland.
If tea solid handsome cake of
scouring soap which has no equal
for al l cleaning purposes except fn
the laundry-To use it is to value it-
What will SAFOUO do? Why it will clean paint, make oil-cloths
bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new appearance* It will
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour
the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly The
wash-basin, the bath tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pin if you use SAPOLIO. One cake will prove all we say. Be a
clever housekeeper and try it
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT ONE SAPOLIO
ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS CO.. NEW YORK.
dOLD BY GKOCEES. CHEMISTS. AED lEOEMOEGEES.
The Whirligig 1 of Time.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I crossed the old ford at the end of last May,
The old pub. had vanished, not even a shingle
Survived of the roof, which, in years passed
away,
Saw friendship and devilry strangely com-
mingle.
The few blackened wall-posts and panels of
fencing
That stand by the roadside, are all that
remain
To tell of old days ; a new era commencing
Has ended a gold-time we’ll ne’er see again.
Then Kate was the barmaid, as handsome a girl
As any fine lady; the smile that she gave
Had put heaps of poor fellows’ heads in a whirl,
And some poor unfortunates’ bones in the
grave.
She was worshipped, you see, by the coves all
about,
Who would fight like the devil her love to
secure;
AaA Cupid, in those days, to settle a doubt,
Sad a way of his own which was certain and
sure.
And Kate! why she’d drive one insane with
her sighs,
With her pearly-white teeth and her lips red
as coral—
Sha lacked like a witch, in the depths of whose
•yes
'ft* light sparkled best at the sight of a
quarrel.
I’ll always remember that Michaelmas morning,
When, down from the Bogong, young Archie
Mackay
Stow! joking with Kate, when, without the
least warning.
Flash Jim interfered in his coarse-speaking
way.
From Archie’s warm heart to the roots of his
hair
r JPb« fiery blood rushed, with a leap and a
bound ;
Like a flash he stood off, then a blow planted
square,
Sent Jim with a thud and an oath to the
ground.
With some terrible threats the two men closed
together,
A clinch and a struggle —Flash Jim did the
rest,
For, snatching his knife from its sheathing of
leather,
With Archie’s throat gripped, drove it into
his breast.
Flash Jim was the “ringer” of Moorabin shed,
And a bit of a bully—they hated him, all—
The crowd tried to rush him—he cowed them
instead
And stood panting at bay, with his back to
the wall;
They wavered an instant, “Stand back, or by
God,” he
Exclaimed, “ who comes near me comes
straight to his death.
I ll bury the blade of this knife in his body ;
So damn you, stand off!—let a cove get his
breath !”
Then he sped through the doorway and made
for the creek,
And the crowd with a shout followed closely
behind;
Lithe-limbed and lean-flanked, Jim could stay
for a week,
A real even-timer, he sped like the wind.
They chased him through timber, to where the
tall pines
lioee out of the sandhills, set close as a furze;
Right on to the range, where the setting sun
shines
In a glory of crimson o’er ridges and spurs.
They lost him sometimes, till a stir of the
branches
Showed where he was threading the bracken
and fern,
And they followed like sleuth-hounds the trail
on his haunches—
Each man as a bushman had nothing to
learn—
So hard on his track pressed the resolute band,
impelled by a mixture of justice and passion ;
And the flying man knew that lynch-law out of
hand,
W ould follow his capture in summary fashion.
Archie’s mate, who throughout with a dogged
persistence
Had followed, stopped short, and without
much delay,
As he saw the tall ferns gently moved at a
distance
Not greater than ten or twelve paces away
With the skill that a sharpshooter picks off a
foe.
Ilia revolver discharged—ere the smoke-cloud
departed,
A body rolled down through the brushwood
below,
Some twenty odd yards from the spot where
it started.
The flash, the report, its wild echoes resounding,
Fast summoned the crowd who, with ringing
“ halloo,”
Scrambled down to the creek, where, the victim
surrounding,
They found they had captured—a scrub-kan
garoo.
Methinks I can call up the asinine change
Of expression which harassed their feature.'
that day,
And hear in the silence that fell o’er the range
Jim’s wild peal of laughter die slowly away.
Where’s Archie ?” you ask. “ Well I guess 1
am he.
’Neath the folds of my shirt, here, I still bear
the scar. ”
“And Kate?” “Married years ago—married
to me—
And as handsome as when she served drinks
in the bar.
Here s the landlord for orders—l’m dry with
this yabber;
Yours the same ;so is mine; bring your own;
how he winks !
You were asking just now what became of the
stabber,
Flash Jim ? Why, that’s he just gone out
for the drinks.”
T. H. ORD.
p
F. 0. Kendall, Henry Kendall’s eldest
son, contributes a well-written democratic rhyme
to the Workman (Sydney), and modestly asks
its insertion on the prestige of his father’s name.
p
p
In England the other day a young man
who had to undergo a slight operation was told to
take no solid food for eight hours before the event,
Nevertheless, he ate a hearty meal. He vomited
when the ether was given him and was fatally
choked by undigested food.
Bradlaugh’s paper, the National Re-
fokmek, is now edited by that able young man,
J. M. Robertson.
The late David Proudfoot, railway-con-
tractor, who died under chloroform at Sydney
recently, started business in New Zealand when but
17 years old. He had no capital, but he soon worked
his way up, and, before he was 25, was engaged
in contracts amounting to many thousands of
pounds. He was a born contractor.
Incident in the trial of Li Ki Hong, who
has been sentenced to death at Perth, W.A., for
the murder of another Chinee, known as Ah Gin.
Attorney General Burt: “Li?” Prisoner:
“ Um.” “ You savee what this gentleman,
Enright, say?” “Me savee.” “ You savee he
tell um this gentleman (pointing to Judge Wren-
fordsley) you chop um Chinaman’s head off?”
“No savee !” Hanged allee same.
p
That is a good old-fashioned yarn of the
clergyman who, preaching in a strange church,
asked to have a glass of water in the pulpit, and,
after the sermon, remarked to the clerk in the
vestry, “ That might have been gin-and-water,
John, for all the people could tell.” Taking the
duty again there next Sunday, he found, to his
horror, that it was gin-and-water: “ I took the
hint, sir—I took the hint,” quoth John from the
clerk’s desk below.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at Sydney, N.8.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal ,
Is the only paper which has a consistent mid dis
tinctive Australian National Polity.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Person, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting mere
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bollotih was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains>
has become a vast property, because it pos.
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class ) rinting
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which', throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aerainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based
Perhaps the strongest proof of The BuLumN’a
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official — that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance}, Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter , or On* Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maolkod, Managing Director , to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial eovvmuni-
rations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical,
p
Vfl \WVilr'
y
3
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELT.
y
fi
i
x
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. 1 ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those bolts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a2d stamp for
postage. £
Address:- VOLTAIC COMPANY
Box 916, G. R. 0., Sydney.
p
FOR MEN.
WnTf Course, £l. Treatise sent sealed, 4 Stamt>»,
Add*resa-ThO 0 AVR”' ,T ' T 9B T ABORATORY.
&Q 56 RUSBBLL STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC
DEBBL-ITATED
WEAK AND
NERVOUS
AN *LD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Sk : ii
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE. Parisian Agency, Box 7CO, Sydney.
V
ARIOOCELE-
-Itscan-ea, s mptmns. nn.i patho-
1 gy. t gether with n tlesrr t»ri« :i
of a NEW mi l SUCCESSFUL METi£-D of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Tost me, two
, stamp .
PROFESSOR CARL ST INC WAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST . MELBOURNE, VIC.
p
to the
Dogs!
u
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
E ij I£l C TMICIT Y.
PROFESSOR*
m
MINIATURE
ALLEN’S
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to bo a positive Remedy for
nearly ail the ailments mankind is heir to, The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The-Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century.
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle (low of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves,',Brain and Muscles,infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments :
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Bronchitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost,
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use.
Price SHILLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemists
mid Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 254
Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
BURROUGHS & WATTS,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS.
** # Every description in Stock.
Large Assortment of Lawn Tennis Goods.
Osir 10s. o<l Cane Handle Cricket Bats
a speciality.
Lacrosse, Football, and Materials for other
Games always in Stock.
BDEEOUGHES & WATTS,
S lOcses-cI, street, 3'y«a.2i©y
ARTHtFB. M 0 WiiLCOT,
con vis yaxceii, ago,
Loans on Mortgage of Freehold and Lcarrheld
Estates. International Patentsi
Australasian Trade Marks and Copyrights.
Djrdae'jr, Country and Intercolonial Law Agency.
OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND CHAMBERS, BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
sufferer is earnestly invited
Pills, and they will be aoknou '
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, side head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E- ery
to try one box of these,
edged to bo
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ag'es these Pills, are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECIIAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved hv thousands who have
tried them, ana found the benefits-which arc ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” t-s ified
continually by membe s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeobvm’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecliam’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
Affections, Hoarse Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecitam s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions arc given with each box.
hrupp
MIUANIC Cl-IAIH
1>
£
o ®
»
\W
p
I
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich 'and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Dumhago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb - Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why _waste
your money and health by procuring and takingUSELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
wc send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, krkk,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
!p»r The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Oahu Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtxet.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—-The K.G. Chain Belt cures ivithout medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price One Shilling*
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. CM., post paid.
SOLD V.Y ALL AGENTS.
A
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities ior dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of < .'redit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of tiles » grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st. , London. £3?” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
MANHOO 33.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AHD VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
-
The only Jn/alhbte Remedyfor A ervous o> Sexual Dcbiltfy.
Used for a quarter of a . century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Lssence oj Life restores manhood to the most
shattered and debilitated constitutions? regenerating; all the
important elements ofthe human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
Jn cases 0/ 125.. or four quantities in one for jtfr, Freight
extra . J\t mphlets/ree on > eceipt of stamped addressed envelope .
Agents for Australasia—Terry &> Co., Gertrude Street
Fitzioy, Melbourne.
Agents for N.S. Wales—VV. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
w
E beg to draw the attention of the Public
to our choice and well-selected Stock of
%
fill
SIPPEL BROTHERS,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
520 and, 496 George Street, Sydney
Tub Trade Supplied.)
(AND FACTORING HATTERS,
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY
Importers of all the
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
p
p
mm
■
'Mmm
~f:
m,
,w m
WM
<!&:
d®
mSISm
MANUFACTURED 6Y A> /
,/jMES CWAAWCA' J/arbovrS* A*
ta «V «« tJ. *
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tatter sail's.
For poise Hide Wears Twice as Long 1
as any otlier Leather.
They are noted all oyer London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
L»o3a.c3.oii
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
p
DOUBLE BEFSSrD F'CING PRICKS.
The land co. of Australasia, ltd. is prepared
to accept orders for an unlimited uantity of Ordi-
nary and Plastic Buildii s' Bricks, Sewer Bricks, and
Double-pressed Whhe, Lie lit Brown, Dark Brown and
Golden Brown Facinsi' Bricks. Architects and Builders
who favour us with orders for Double-pressed Bricks need
not fear delay, as wo keep a lore stock. Other Brick-
makers supplied. A. If. COLLI KGS, Works Manager,
Gore Hill, North Shore.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
’ s
GffiATEFDL—OQMFOEUNG-
Medical.
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Lon g-Si andin g and Chronic Com-
•plicated Cases oj Diseases
COHSI7LT
| mTe E KmELMAM r |
OF
172 & 174 Wll ilj IA M STREET,
IFELEQUHME.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
WHo C3-o.it e <3.
More Oases of CO RON 10 DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
| ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice. —If preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SIVORN CEKTBI'TCATE.— One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,'
10th December, 1888.
To H. F. Kugelmann, Esq.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. I consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, but 1 became worse every day, wasting away until
/ became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and Severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity ,of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing cf your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. 1 agreed"
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken had , one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About'a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for tlr Southern Bhiliwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th da •'i December, 1888.
Peter S.mytiie, J.P.
T~\R. WESTCOTT’S AMENORRLKEA
I P PILLS for Lad ies, when taken for a few
days before, qb ickly correct all irregularities
front whatever cause arising ; 2s. <; d., and ,is. <>d.,
by post 3s. and ss, W. il. SOUL and 00., DC
Pitt sfieet, Sydney, Agents.
"T^T OTICF.—W. LUSIIELL ia not authorised
IN to represent Tilii PuLtETfN in any way


-A.. IvC. IE 3 . SOCE IE T
BEAD OFFICE = 87
GENERAL MANAGER AND ACTUARY . .
. ASSISTANT actuary
SECRETARY
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
D. GARMENT, F.F.A., F.I.A.
ROBERT B. CAMERON.
ASSURE YOUR LIFE IN
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
THE OLDEST LARGEST, WEALTHIEST, AND MOST PROSPEROUS AUSTRALASIAN LIFE OFFICE.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY IS A PURELY MUTUAL INSTITUTION, Roverned by
the Policy-holders, local to ■Vustraiia,
ITS FUNDS, NOW OVER NINE MILLIONS STERLING, ARE INVESTED IN THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES,
under the direction of a BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN BACH CAPITAL CITY.
KTote and. Address, because
IT IS THE ONLY AUSTRALASIAN LIFE OFFICE WHICH DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR,
Tho Saaltorinm of Queensland!
BLUE MOUNTAIN HOTEL,
HARLAXTON, TOOWOOMBA.
THE above magnificent Hotel, NOW OPEN,
.situated on the S. and W. Railway, 90 miles
from Brisbane, 3000 ft. above sea-level, offers to
those suffering from the enervating influences of
the Australian colonies, most beneficial and health-
restoring changes.
Visitors met at Harlaxton platform on receipt
of Telegram. Bridal Suites furnished in a most
recherche manner. Wedding Farcies and Tourists
- Speciality.
J. HOLMES ... Proprietor.
Facial Btemfcho#.—
Pi m les, Bleakheads, Red Nose, O'ly Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treat's with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and gua antees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and > £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, ' T per course, medicines sent unobserved.
Address:—KEßß 11. -SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Tasmania. Messrs, fttzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage fld. extra.
P*rescriptiotis
Are to be found in the “Light and. Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
When DOCTORS fail to relieve or Cure you Consult
Personally or by Better
PROFESSOR G. W. GIBSOrt,
Medial Herbalist,
127 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Pamphlet, startling disclosures, Free on receipt
of 2d. postage stamp.
BOUJNCIER’S €MEFA@BE.
IDTHT —EXTEA QUALITY.
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY,
SORIN’S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THIE
Otto Sander &: Co., 336 Kent-st., Sydney,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
p
IVEMBROOTOM
p x (sOLD ti
\ EVERYWHERE'!
p
THE GENUINE
Jaeger Trade Mark.
$
AO
Caution.
No goods without this
trademark are guaranteed
by Dr. Jaeger as pure or
in accordance with his
system.
These goods may now
be obtained at all high*
_ class Drapery Establish-
ments since the .Loudon Jaeger Company has
opened an Australian Branch. Wholesale only.
United Service Club Hotel,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
Most Popular Commercial and Family Hotel.
Sample Rooms a Speciality.
{SP CLOSE TO ALL PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
R. PHILLIPS Proprietress
'HIM nofSnfimijf
'/'f
- ,
.
-
PARKE & LACY CO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACILNERY MERCHANTS,
•Sec., &0., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.-W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
'i : ■
Rock Breakers.
Wcsfiiiilioiisc I’liftinos.
• 9
HJGHI Y NIiTRITJVFj
MAY H£ CJHTAINFU IN LABELLED TINS Ull FAUKfIS THRnUGHUUFttH-COLONY.
DRjKKi
1
w/rtd'
JUL
UNA
m
HAM
AMPA
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wino ami Spirit Merchants,
13,'J Komiic Street, Salisbury Itnildings,
MELBOUENE.
"VTOW READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price, Is. All Agents unci Booksellers.
J* £!. Salier & Co.
IMPORTERS OF
(fas ofa:tm(;-liei!s Ijittings,
I.UMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
p
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVES
Of Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
