

AIT KEN S ALE. “ DICKENS’WHISKY.
LIFE BUOY BRAND. USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
THE BEST IN THE MARKET. AMD SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLLBS IM SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATT WOOD, 251 Creorge-st., Sydney, Sole Agents Jor New South Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL
Ivlarfcet Street, S"2T3D3jTB - S".
UNRIVALLED ACCOMMODATION,
H
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
(WSMIC
/ZiThwmi (•
•aass^
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’m 1888
New Orleans, 1884-86, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
ţ
f - ■
O*
fMt
rOn
THi
m
jiMI
a,LUII3I
Tire
Oxford Hotel,
H. THORPE
King Street, Sydney.
Propiurtok.
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell. Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gas fitters, Art & Mediaeval Metal Worker
KOUXU SKATES (any make) with ItKASS or WOOOEN WHEELS.
0 —
Bon Accord. Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney
appliance
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANC AIS.
TABLE D'HOTE PAEISIENNE, 2s. 6d.
(Wins Included).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
Being in close proximity to the leading plaoea
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the l 'theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here. • '
Private Rooms for Dinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for PARTIES ur to FORTY.
Serricb a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN ON SUNDAYS.
Vinners from 3s. 6d. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes’ Notice.
J. & C. HOWARD.
POINTS OP SUPERIORITY.
1. —Steel drag bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. —Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
3. —All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4. —Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
5. —Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
ť
Prizes Won, 1890 [ SSSSST’- "T ST r “' I Prizes Wo!i - 1390
HOWARD STEEL ORIENT MOWER.
HOWARD’S OK-XEUSTT BAKES.
Howard’s A.nglo American Rak.es.
3801 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ŧ
t
The Bulletin
VoL 11—No. 568.]
[Saturday, January 3, 1891.


TOBACCO
LM
nlrl
I)
DIXSON^SONS
Customs Returns.
American Leaf,
Dxx&ou and Sons consumed in 1888, 52,5921b5.
more, and in 1889 (over 44 tons) 98,939 lbs. more
American Leaf than all the rest of New South
Wales put together.
DIXSON’S TOBACCOS having the largest
•ale of any in Australia are
fp.
*
a
o
33
O
x
€>
<v
9ov\
SIR ROGER
ţ
LAM PLOUGH’S
ť
ŧ
t
“ you have given me life and living. ”
Colonel Mapleson writes as follows Madame Roze
recognises in your preparation the precious Saline that
she found so invaluable when she visited New Orleans
during the last yellow fever epidemic, in order, by her
concerts, to raise funds for the benefit of the stricken
ones, who could not afford the necessary comforts, and
which the crowded hospitals were unable to supply to
thousands of applicants. Madame Roze was advised by
Dr. Barnes, of London, to take your Saline with her, and
we took several dozen bottles. I really believe it saved
OUR LIVES.’
LAMPLOUGH’S PYRETIC SALINE
Acts as a Gentle but Effectual Restorative ; Allaying all
tendency to Feverishness ; Invigorating the Digestion.
Act i,ig on the Liver, Bowels and Kidneys imperceptibly
but surely ; trauquillising the Nervous. System, inducing
wholesome appetite and recuperating the brain power.
Its utility as a remedy in fevers, and as a cooling drink
m diseases of children, such as scarlet fever, measles, &c.,
has been testified to by the leading members of the
profession. May be bad of all Chemists in glass-stoppered
bottles, at 2s. 6d,, 4s. 6d. and 11s. each.
CAUTION.—Take care that when you ask for " Lam'
plough’s .you do not have one of the
numerous spurious imitations foisted.upon you.
ELLIOTT BROS , Wholesale Agents,
SYDNEY.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
ţ
MW.t C!
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
ť
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agent JAMES'MOIB & CO., 58Margaret-st., Sydney
Williams’s Australian
Yeast Powder. |
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST.
: }.
Bread, Tea Cakes, Pastry,
ABE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible -1
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in TlllS at 6fl. the Half-POUII4
ŧ
FLEMING’S
RELIABLE
Buggies, Phaetons,
AND
Carriages,
xnsr zE'viEie.Y styl^-
Waggons, Waggonettes, BuckboardSr
and Harness,
To suit all requirements.
Machinery of all Kinds-
WILLIAM FLEMING-
-22 Clarence Street, Sydney.
AND AT
No. 2 St. James’ Buildings, Melbourne
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, W
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick.
Steam-engifie, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run bv an}'
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pnc;
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, wnio®
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN-
WELL WORKS, Box 799, 0.P.0., Sydney.
t
tm r
ROVAt.
toiNBonCH
CASTIC
QUO
Scoichwhisky
flcLocttfroo'i
Ironmongery, ami
GENERAL HARDWARE
CUaas, China and
earthenware.
WINES. BEERS & SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
LUOIEN FOUCAULD & CO.'*,
Old Brandies.
J. T. OAYEN’S, .
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN AND CO.’S
Champagne J'ale Ales.
MACHEN’S
“Pelican” Stout.
•The "Royal Edinburgh Castle” old Scotch Whiskies.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
For Christa Presents and New Pear Gifts
SEND TO OR CALL AT
FRED C. PASS AXT ’ S 3,
Watchmaker, Jeweller and Optician,
494 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
(Opp. the Markets),
Who has just opened out his Christmas Stock of Gold and
Silver Watches, superior Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Electro-plated Ware, Spectacles, Opera and Field Glasses.
Brazilian Pebble Spectacles, with case, 4s. 6d. per pair.
Silver Hunting Patent Lever Watches from £S St. to £7.
Jewellery Made to Order and Promptly Repaired.
Complete Price List sent Post Free on Application.
Goods forwarded by Post Free of Charge.
JjjfERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BY—
Consulting; R. J. POULTON, Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System, Consult personally or hy letter.
Caiaywarr liW
W:
Ofy
\l/
D
vl>.
Si
Q
%%
OB
ES
FF
UMc.
J.V
'i'
M JLDU RA _
Melbourne
RENM ARK_
•®py^
.Victoria.
Cbaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
.South Australia,
I D E Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
England
Tfo»d*l * Ct
J- £ Mathew Vincent, (Chief Commissioner}
Cornwall Buildings, 35 Queen Victoria St
uo (M do n c. c.
CrOXjDEHSr
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIKT” Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
_____ _ ■ • .. ■ l '* v > ' ’f v ■ ’ >• *"
, """ ■ ■■ m ~~ ;7;;;r" ir ■ 1 ■■ 111 ■■■-—— *
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d*


Mecllca:!.
Dr-SPEER
29 YORK STREET, IVYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY,
R.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.SAV. m
his particular special itv, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours-10
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
KTervotJLß 2Z3 du iXi“ty•
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS through
indiscretion, for his many years of practice with this
dreadful disease enables him to remove all traces of it and
to return the victims to full VIGOUR, HEALTH and
MANHOOD.
N.B.— TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
PR- SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills
I-—AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2.— AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3—“ FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
lons from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
<7
i- \ '
**WEAK
SUFFERING FROM
BRAIN & NERVE EXHAUSTION.
Any man who in his youth has trifled away his vigour
body, mind, and manhood, should consult PRO-
FESSOU, CARL STINEWAY, the Eminent Specialist,
in diseases of the Genito-Urinary Organs, who is still
treating with the greatest skill and success all Private,
Nervous, and Chronic Diseases.
Professor STINEWAY’S great success, which has
ih»come so firmly established throughout Australasia,
is based upon the facts: - Ist. That every case treated,
even in its most remote effects, is specially studied,
■thus starling aright. 2nd. The Medicines and Electric
Appliances used are exactly adapted to suit the case,
thus promptly producing results without overdosing
or injury.
I SEEK CASES WHERE ALL ELSE HAS FAILED.
Young and middle-aged men and others, who
suffer from Nervous and Physical Debility,
Exhausted Vitality, Premature Dei tine, be., can
recover the same degree of health, strength.
Odd energy experienced in former years, by
consulting (in person or by tetter, which is free).
Professor CARL STINEWAY, who has restored
thousands of sufferers to vigorous manhood
after at! other treatment had faded. It makes
do difference what you have taken, or who has
faded to cure you. Cases that / accept for treat-
ment are quickly and permanently cured,
DO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING SYMPTOMS
OR CLASS OF SYMPTOMS MEET YOUR
DISEASED CONDITION Are you a sufferer
from bad health in any of its many forms, consequent
on a lingering Nervous, Chronic, or Functional
Disease ? Do you feel nervous, debilitated, fretful,
timid, and lack the pow nof will and action? Are
you subject to loss of memory; have spells of faint-
ing ; fullness of blood n the head; feel listless,
moping, unfit for business or pleasure, and subject to
uts of melancholy ? Are your kidneys, stomach,
urinary organs, liver, or blood in a disordered con-
dition ? Do you suffer from Rheumatism, Neuralgia,
or other aches and pains ? Are you timid, nervous,
and forgetful, with your mind continually dwelling
on the subject? Have you lost confidence in yourself,
•nd energy for business pursuits? Are you subject
•o restless nights, broken sleep, dreams, palpitation of
Jh» heart, bashfulness, confusion of ideas, aversion
*o society, dizziness in the head, dimness of sight,
pimples on the face and back, and other desponding
■ynaptoms? If you are afflicted, why further neglect
your health or future happiness, when by a singla
consultation (which costs nothing) you can be placed
on the way to health strength, and vigour ?
VARICOCELE easily and
quickly cured toy my only
Genuine Electric Appliance,
Royal Letters Patent.
Persons living at a distance who deaira
treatment without delay can, by forward-
a full description of their case and
receive Medicines by return of post.
Do not despair, even though ad others have failed
n H° ur case. / will cure you. My vast experience
enables me to guarantee a positive cure In ad cases
undertaken. CONSULTATIONS FREE. Medicines
lustra.? 01 *™ rom observation to any part •/
From Bondage to Freedom,” my latest
AUd entirely new work on Brain and
Nerve Exhaustion, Private, Nervous, and
Chronic Diseases, should be read by every
jaan ; nearly one hundred pages. By post,
two stamps.
A written guarantee given in all cases un*
ertaken, and no promises made that age, in-
e gnty, and long experience do not justify.
My HYGIO-ELECTRIC APPLIANCES (by
oya! Letters patent) are the only genuine
cits and Trusses in Australia.
Address—
Professor CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH STREET,
Melbourne, victoria.
mention this pater.
Something 3STew.
— X-
Name neatly printed on Forty (40) Beautift
Un(W mbo o Sed VISITING CARDS, comprising Flor
View, Bird, <fcc.. No two alike. AL
Wanfo.l “SHILLING in Stamps, postage paid. Agcnl
ted. Samples free. Address —
Austral Card and ?
14 Hu
YDNKT.
t
> Eucalypte OILSa.
m
ms
Victory Ointments
THE TREE OF LIFE.
L. rn
XJ-ancaii Hoss,
The Great American Athlete,
CURED of INFLUENZA by using COLEMANE & SONS
EUCALYPTE EXTRACT.
DON'T BE DECMVKD,
If you want the best Medicine the world has ever pro-
duced, try Colemane & Sons’ Eucalyptb Extract— there
are no ten medicines equal to it. It is one of Nature’s
greatest gifts to mankind. It is the only known cure for
Asthma, Consumption, Bronchitis, and all affections of
the Chest and Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart,
Gravel and Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of
all kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. IfW" For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special 0.1. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
[ftPIES'
TANSY PILLS are Letter than
Steel, Pemiyroya', or E got. Cured
obstructioi a flora whaicvor cause.
Neyer fails. No Pills or
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER. P.O. Box 100, Melbourne.
A
G O L D 1<: N 8 11 A N T Y.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
n Cloth Binding, 2s (>d, post paid l
Book of IMature.
' : V;
1
•v.*r
Wa
n
Book of KTature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariase
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
Structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period_of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price X/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, ‘2OO illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &0., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is.
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern,” 6d.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY. ’
ţ
c
c
JJ-frl
rh
Dll'Ll!
CP
Co
>
m
£
UIUIIIIII
11111111111.
|UolllU ,B
a
■nr u "|
V
y
J 7
V *,W
'tip
CLARENCE $1
SYDNEY.
AGENTS
_ in New South Wales
TRIUMPH
ofThe Qoqp 5 pirjj OVER Bad.
Used in hospitals throughout the world in preference to the
best French Brandy. TRY IT.
NERVOUS SUFFERERS
ť
*m ' m :
„ *■■ ,W.Jt •♦ >: s;’Spm i a
<Aw: S t ~ f •"
-i -I— UAi.'.
ill#
ij.
»> ' ~J
e
/ f
*•*
! Dr. M. PERRY,
\ M.E.C.S., L.H.A„ &0.,
SPECIALIST for the Treatment of Nervous
Complaints, Diabetes, Tumors, &c.
Registered hy the Medical Board of N.S. W. Late House Bur-
geon to the Great Northern Hospital, London.
I am awaro that I am not strictly following: the paths
of professional etiquette by advertising myself as a
Specialist for the treatment of this class of disease, but,
unfortunately for the suffering public ki Australia, the
apathy shown by Qualified Men in the treatment of
Chronic and Nervous Complaints has induced men of the
lowest grade of intellect (whose only qualifications are
unlimited assurance) to spring up, and by specious
advertisements and false promises trap the unwary.
It is very evident that sufferers from these diseases
have been scandalously treated by those unqualified
persons The evidence taken at the Medical Enquiry
held in Sydney (published in the Daily Telegraph, Nov.
6th 7bh and Bth, 1890) plainly shows the disgraceful
manner in which patients are duped. Not only are
they robbed of their money, but what is of infinitely
greater importance, their health is injured also. It is
therefore time that" Legally Qualified Men entered the
field to fight these pests of society with their own
weapons, viz., AdvertlMiug.
It is utterly impossible for those who are suffering
from the*e diseases, who are scattered over all parts of
Australasia, to ascertain which Qualified Practitioner
makes these diseases his speciality unless lie advertises.
I consider therefore, that by advertising / not only
etrike a blow at the Quackery which now exists, but I also add
to the usefulness of my prefession and in no way lessen my
personal dignity.
By Qualification* I invite tho fullest InvoKtlgniieu Inte. For some considerable time I was House Surgeon to the
Great Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of observing the many phases of the Nervous and
Sexual System, and to become acquainted with the most scientific methods of effecting their euro.
My sole attention is given to the treatment of these diseases, and when a person consults me he is Informed at tho
•ommencement whether I can effect his oure or not. The patient is not deluded with false and specious promises, and
tf I undertake the case
I Absolutely Guarantee a Complete and Permanent Cure.
My great success iu the treatment of these diseases enables me to give this guarantee without fear,
eldehly HEM, nimifiK-AaED mcnr, mi» young mm
m, firing from Impaired Vitality thould send for my Work on DiseatCM of tho Hoproduetifo Organs, which, in addition to exrU£rnm§
mv method of treatment, contains many useful hints a$ to *elf Management, the observance of which is of great use to mt, *nd in many
instances is sufficient to check the progress of disease. This Book will be forwarded Free on application.
Patients residing at a distance can be treated at tfuirown homes without interruption to their business *&dlcinee packed and ssms
parts of Australasia.
permanently cured without operation. Diabetes and Z v a totaU y MW method of CataneoM
Hours—From 10 a.m. to 1 o.w- unsays) ; and from 7 to 9 p.m.on Tussday and Saturday
ither bu ~ yvrmonI rrlM.
Address all Communications
»r. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., See., Elmloy House, 151 Eliiabetli-ifc., Sydney, H.S.W.
M B.—l would advise all persons before consulting specialists to ascertain if they *n really Duly Quallßed *>— tf-
Mooers. or only advertising frauds,
MENTION THIS FSrUB.
f re , from observation to all
Varlocele qulcMy and
indication. Consult .lion
ns,lings. Cen»uUatloa (•
Medical.
Dr. mCDiARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL. CONSULTING and
LAEO . ATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richamls will in future be pleased to welcome hia
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY,
m&jm
□
. . -D
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES. .
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hia
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practioa
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Gd. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-ROUND
ROOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private 0*
nervous system may bo cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expenoe. Thla
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NEB.
VO US DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment).
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by lire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 oases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£• sore to mention this paper when writlaff
CONSULTATION PKEE.


T. GO.^
Umited)
ŧ
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. B. and Co.’s Improved STEEL EARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid
T. R. AND Co.’s DAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS,- »
sizes.
T. 11. and Co.’s New DRAIN FORMERS. |
T. R. AND Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OYER BOX WO(#
PRESS—the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. R. AND Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESS#
T. R. and Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. AND Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
Address = 407 & 409 Ellzatoetll Stl:eet, MELBOURNEj*
F. LABSETTER & CO.
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Send for Catalogue
WE
LEAD!
TRADE
a
OF
MARK. ME *}™’ S
GIFTS.
SILVER-PLATED SPOONS & FORKS of GIT A.R AWT BE D QUALITY
FIDDLE PATTERN.
EARLY ENGLISH PATTERN
KING’S PATTERN.
These Goods are plated on the Finest Quality Nickel Silver, and have the HEAVIEST DEPOSI^
of STERLING SILVER possible, thereby assuring to the purchaser the best wearing article at tb»
CHEAPEST PRICE. 8
The Silver used in the manufacture of these articles is of the finest quality, and deposited by a ne*
process, which determines to a nicety the exact quantity of silver used. By this means we are able »
guarantee the quality of all Silver-plated Spoons and Porks purchased at our establishment
Send for Catalogue
of
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
Table Porks
Dessert Pocks
Table Spoons
Dessert Spoons
Tea Spoons
Tea Spoons
Egg Spoons
Salt Spoons
Mustard Spoons
Gravy Spoons
Soup Ladles
Sauce Ladles
per doz.
each
All Egg, Salt and Mustard Spoons, with the exception of 2S and S qualities, have gilt bowls.
& CO.,
254 & 256 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
atented. Specialities
for
Summer
Season.
Bf=
er
-
3—c,
r>
+
t
Champion Ice IVEacliine.
The only effective one for Domestic or Hotel use. Easy and Cheap.
Tee for next to nothing.
S Sifflffi® <K >
lIS
V
A7>
TOBIN & DAVIDSON’S
Patent Limestone Filter
The only perfect Filter. Specially adapted for
Australian water.
G °«
PATEN
ater pi
'if#? REFtfeff
(.onion i*al<‘iil Canvas Killer »«<!
■Culler ICeirlaeralor.
The established Favourite. Selling in T'h
sands. Specially fur Outdoor use.


DIXSON
Library
The Bulletin
Vol. 11-No. 568.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 8, 1891.
Price, 6d.
ţ
£L.
THE KILKENNY CATS,—THE IRISH QUESTION SETTLING ITSELF.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’'
\■ -
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
v vA>. . -
Limited;
'\■ . \
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt-street. Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ' 0 12 6
Quarterly ... • 0 6.6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bidletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—ivhich you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
S^^xxlld&ri.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 3, 1891.
A Great Irish Complication.
Unless England’s “Grand Old Man” re-
solves to go back on his ultimatum, and
abandon the position he has assumed, it is
evident that either Gladstone or Parnell
must be thrown overboard, and, despite the
adverse result of the Kilkenny election, at
which the Parnellite nominee was heavily
defeated, it becomes to us every day more
and more probable that Parnell will
ultimately stay and let Gladstone go. It
is a contest between the man of iron and the
man of straw, for Gladstone, despite his
abilities and his wondrous eloquence, has
not an atom of that steel-built tenacity
which has enabled the Irish leader to hold
his position so long, and to use it to such
good effect. Most of England’s prominent
slates an, in fact, are men of feeble resolu-
ti in. a id vacillating purpose. Hartington
and Chamberlain are a pair of weak and
(h ;s renegades, who fell away from their
t faith because they were curiously
couq unded of rhetoric, treachery, and
1 paralysis. Salisbury, the man
r shocking bad hats, is gifted with pomp
hi place of brains, and is supplied with
■ fignity rather than energy. As a poli-
tician in full dress he is a person of
weight, and calculated to impose upon
■ iv' multitude, but if he were jostled
by . chimney-sweep, or had his shirt-front
c ted by a handful of mud, or chanced to
his clothes in a swimming-bath, he
1 I sink upon the instant to a common-
. i mediocre individual, and even
.!'■■■• igal would scoff at . his ultimatum with
'imp* nity. Morley, apart from his elo-
m • :;e, is known principally as a person
who habitually spells God with a small
as a challenge to the artillery of an in-
dig! rnt heaven, and the actual force of the
I S ac of Commons is centred chiefly in the
•clever, brutal and bull-headed Balfour, the
■ id, silent, immovable Parnell, and that
fly ng skirmisher, Charles Bradlaugh,
•vL e' atheistic presence is still supposed by
tim Church to carry with it a curse of Sodom
am Gomorrah and the other desolated Cities
le Plain. And the explanation of this
that Britain is governed by eloquence and
versatility, rather than by mental force. The
k . d but still lamented Disraeli was a voice
nothing more—a man of theatrical bril-
ice, with the tenacity-of a boiled straw,
a tan utter absence of principles or opinions
a oept the opinion that he ought to be
n per most—who lived for years on fluency
■ d glittering rhetoric, and shifts and ex-
pedients, and died universally regretted by
nation which has not even yet realised his
iptiness. f And Gladstone, still more
itunate, has been a Conservative and a
Liberal, a Coercionist and a Home Ruler, a
man of peace and an aimless nxuddler in
Egyptian complications, and a hundred other
things besides, and yet has drawn a power-
ful party with him through all his chances
and changes—partly owing to the popular
belief in his sincerity, and partly by reason
of his magnetic eloquence, and has been a
great statesman to the last because a large
vocabulary is of more account than a fixed
purpose. v
* * *
Yet the fact that Parnell has made his
way to a lofty pinnacle of fame without the
one qualification which ensures success in the
House of Commons—that he has succeeded
in dispensing with the indispensable—demon-
strates beyond dispute that he is the stronger,
more determined man of the two. More-
over, the Irish party has the inestimable
advantage of being. hampered by no pledges
cxcept'those it has given to Ireland. Ever
since the Conquest England has used Ireland
solely for her own purposes, and as the
natural result Ireland cares not one straw for
English politics or English prosperity, and
will vote with equal readiness for socialism,
absolutism, or anarchy in Great Britain, pro-
, vided only that t he hated Union is repealed.
. The priefe of the Irish vote is the re-establish-
. raenk of the old Legislature at Hublin, and
on these term's Mr. Parnell’s followers will
’ give their support to Balfour and Salis-
bury as freely and as heartily as they have
usually given it to Gladstone. If Dis-
raeli were alive it is almost beyond question
that that glittering charlatan would have
; seized the opportunity and dragged his fol-
lowing of astounded country squires along
’ with him to vote for Nationalism and Repeal
—if necessary, for Fenianism—so long as he
“ dished ” his obnoxious opponents ; and if
: Salisbury fails to do likewise it will be owing
to constitutional inertia rather than to prin-
ciple. The Tory party has no particular policy
except to collect its rents and to hold office,
and there is nothing in the Home Rule pro-
gramme which is actively opposed to either
of these two great axioms. Toryism itself is
in the main a negative influence, but still the
Tory moves, because the country shoves him
along from behind—his object is simply to
move as slowly as he can, and not to move
till the last possible moment. Yet on more
than one occasion, when some reform has
obviously become inevitable, the party of
reaction and stupidity has stolen its enemy’s
programme, and posed as the party of
liberalism and enlightenment, thereby hang-
ing itself to avoid strangulation ; and if one
vestige of Disraeli’s unscrupulous ver-
satility still survives, it may possibly offer
terms to the Irish phalanx at the present
crisis, and scoop the Home Rule vote
throughout the United Kingdom. The one
enduring mental characteristic of the Tory is
that dull, unreasoning obedience which
stands in place of his absent thinking
faculty, and if the order goes forth that the
rank and file of Salisbury’s followers are to
whoop for Parnell, they will rise and whoop
with the stunned, bewildered air of a native
savage hollering for the British constitution
according to the instructions of his mis-
sionary, or an aboriginal gin applauding the
“good Kaween Victoria who gib it blang-
kit.”
* * #
The chief essential of a successful politician
is an unlimited capacity for swallowing his
own past assertions, and the prominent
feature of an unsuccessful politician is a
desire to swallow his own assertions, com-
bined with an unhappy incapacity for per-
forming the movement gracefully or at the
right moment. Gladstone’s transformation
from a Coercionist to a Nationalist was a
work of genius and art; Salisbury’s trans-
formation would probably be unnatural and
clumsy ; but, in either case, the gulf to be
bridged over is precisely the same. More-
over, should the Tory party choose to take
a decisive step, and sacrifice the support of
the Unionist body, which is but an ephemeral
institution at the best, for that of the
Nationalists, who form a permanent organisa-
tion, it is more than possible that it might
thereby rid itself for ever of its most
dangerous opponent. Home Rule is the
one great issue to which .Gladstone has
promised to devote the remainder of his
political life, but should the Government
annex his great issue bodily, and thereby
take over his Irish following, together with
a large section of his English adherents, he
must either become for the moment a
follower jf Salisbury, or else. devote
himself to fighting against his own prin-
ciples and his, own programme, or, as
a third alternative, he may stand out
as an extinct politician without a policy.
It would be merely the story of the famous
Tory Reform Bill oyer again, and an aston- ~
ished world may yet see Parnell virtually
deposing, instead of being deposed by, Glad-
stone, and Balfour whooping in Tipperary
as an apostle of Separation, and Matthews
subscribing his humble mite to the
Nationalist funds, amid the execrations of
John Morley in that gentleman’s entirely
new capacity as the friend and brother of the
Orange faction of Ulster. So long as the
essence of statesmanship is to hold office,
and draw a salary, and have a sonorous war-'
cry to lay before the country at a general
election, everything is possible.
* * *
The one thing certain among a chaos of
uncertainties is that there will presently be a
re-arrangement of the multifarious parties in
the House of Commons. The Tory following
is still compact, but it is weak in numbers
and woefully stupid, pig-headed, and incap-
able, and its most brilliant members in the
popular Chamber are the dreary and miser-
able Smith, and Balfour, the apostle of
bludgeons and brute ferocity. The Unionist
league, by whoso support and toleration the
Government exists, is obviously doomed to
destruction at the next election, for the con-
stituencies are already tired of being repre-
sented by Liberals who vote for Conserva-
tism, and who keep an obnoxious Ministry
in for the sake of keeping another obnoxious
Ministry out, and tread on eleven of their
own principles to prevent someone else
treading on the. twelfth. The Opposition is
made up of three separate bodies, two of
whom are busily occupied in jumping on the
third, while the third jumps with equal vigour
on the other two, and all three jump indis-
criminately on the loose and disorganised
factions opposite. The following of Mr.
’ Gladstonev though well organised and
steadily increasing in numbers, is still weak,
and that of Justin M‘oarthy is pledged to
support it on the Home Rule issue only while
Parnell’s phalanx, though also supposed to
follow the Liberal leader in any scheme of
Separation, suffers under an unfortunate
disability, inasmuch as he has declined to be
followed by it. A leader who repudiates his
own supporters occupies much the same
situation as a vehicle which repudiates its
own wheels, and the possible consequences
of this anomalous situation are past conjec-
ture. It is beyond question that the Liberal
party will be immensely strengthened at the
next General Election, but, as the Kitty
O’Shea trouble can’t last for ever, it is almost
equally certain that the Nationalists who
follow M‘Carthy will go to ignominious
wreck, and the inevitable collapse of Union-
ism, which is due at the same time, will help
to counterbalance this disaster and leave
things very much where they were. There
are six leaders in the House, but on one side
Hartington and Chamberlain distrust each
other individually, and distrust Salisbury
collectively, while Salisbury distrusts them
both jointly and severally ; and on the other
side Gladstone and M‘Carthy, and the com-
mittee by which MUarthy is shored up, all
demand Parnell’s deposition, and Parnell
demands the deposition of M‘Carthy, and
repudiates McCarthy's committee, and
heaves obloquy and reproaches at Gladstone,
and all is chaos, anarchy, and confusion.
# # *
The vote of either of the Irish parties can
be obtained at one fixed price—Home Rule
for Ireland—and the Tory Government must
either buy-up one of them at its own valua-
tion or burst. Therefore it is within the
region of possibility that Salisbury, Bal-
four, Parnell, Gladstone and M‘Carthy
may all go to the country on two separate
Nationalist tickets, while Hartington, and
the last remnant of the Unionists, rove over
the earth in the vain search for a dry place
and have no ticket left: or else the end of the
present Parliament may find Gladstone prac-
tically extinct, and Morley, the affable atheist
from the North, running the fragments of his
late following. It is possible, no doubt, that
Nationalism may be indefinitely delayed by
the disaster which has overtaken its leader,
but it is at least equally possible that it may
be immensely accelerated by the same cause.
If the Tory Government is compelled to
choose between granting autonomy to
Ireland and preserving its own position oil
the one hand, and losing its position while
Irish autonomy is granted by its successors
on the other, it will probably accept the
smaller misfortune, and however remarkable
such a change of front might be, it would
be by no means more remarkable than
that of the Liberal party a few years
ago. The leading axiom of politics is to be
consistent in all things without losing a
valuable billet, and, where absolute con-
sistency is impossible, to be as consistent as
the billet will allow, and on this old and
well-recognised principle everything is liable,
sooner or later, to come to pass. The one
thing, however, which is all but certain amid
a multitude of hazy possibilities, is that Par-
nell —if he lives-—will hold his own against
Liberals, Unionists, Tories, and disaffected
Nationalists all combined, for the whole
intellectual force of the House of Commons
is not sufficient to shake that man of iron
and granite upon his basis. It is a picturesque
revenge for the long agony of the old Penal
Laws that English statesmen'should grovel
for Irish votes, and tout for Irish support,
-but history is full of picturesque revenges.
The Liberal party, which fondly imagined
that it had made, and - could also unmake,
the Irish leader, has already discovered its
mistake, and the Tory party, which fancied
it could extinguish him by violence and
coercion, will probably have to choose be-
tween making terms with its opponent, or
being itself extinguished.
“Good Family.”
There is no term more provocative of disgust
to the emancipated mind, no" phrase which
exercises more influence on the conventional
thinker than that which heads this article. The
vacuous impertinence and patronising assump-
tions of some empty “ new-ehum” excite annoy-
ance and resentment in a circle that knows not
bis parentage until it is whispered about that
he comes of “good family,” then frowns are
chased away by smiles, the cigar-cases of the
men are immediately placed at his disposal, and
the women draw their skirts closer that he may
sit in their vicinity. Or he is arraigned at the
bar of justice. A word in the ear of the pre-
siding deityTk “ The accused, your Honor, is
highly con nected ; one of the Born drunks of
Ballyphool Hall; ” and the tremendous aspect
of officialism is visibly softened, and the mailed
hand of the law, if not entirely turned aside,"
falls with a considerably lessened ponderosity
on the pate of the offender. No one
(save Borndrunk) will argue that such prefer-
ences should exist ; few will not declare
that the partiality of the legal, like that
of the social, tribunal should clearly be
exercised in a precisely opposite direction.
Surely the offender who has misused great
opportunities for good, is more culpable, more
deserving of execration and punishment, than
the culprit whose immoral tendencies have been
absorbed from his life-long surroundings.
Nevertheless, the ancient saying: “To whom
much is given from him shall much be required,”
hath little acceptation, especially in Australia,
where the wealthy descendants of old-timers
fairly hustle with their blooming daughters and
bloated bank-accounts the dissipated and penni-
less aides-de-camp and broken-down distin-
guished visitors who visit us.
* * #
Believers in hereditary aristocracy who season
their conversation with pithy remarks such as
“blood will tell,” and “breeding must assert
itself,” always draw their illustrations from the
animal kingdom, forgetting that the system
which produces that finely-organised creature,
the blood-horse, is that of careful selection, not
of continuous inbreeding and indiscriminate
mating. The breeder selects the soundest, best-
boned and most shapely members of each sex at
his disposal, and his forethought, as a rule,
results in the propagation of stock, equal, if not
superior to its progenitors. The human family
is not propagated after this fashion. The
founders of the most ancient British families
(none extant date back to the Conquest) were
freebooters, doubtless “fine animals,” for their
property and titles were gained by force
of arms, by dispossessing or killing various
small holders and uniting the confiscated areas
into large estates of which they eventually
became “landlords.” Since then, in almost
every reign, down to that of William IV.,
numerous “good” families have sprung from
the loins of courtezans, or those much more
contemptible creatures, the favourites who
pandered to the vicious tastes of the British
monarchs. Other houses were founded by those
who had rendered naval, military, diplomatic
or financial services to the Crown, but of late
years the privilege of founding families, to be
upheld by the laws of primogeniture and entail
(the modern founder of a “ house ” must be pre-
pared to settle at least £lOO,OOO on his heir) has
fallen chiefly into the hands of the plutocrat.
The British peerage, therefore, has been called
into existence mainly by the brutal; unchaste,
unnatural, sycophantic, unscrupulous, usurious,
tricky and acquisitive. It is 'true that poets,
painters and statesmen have been occasionally
ennobled, but, as' Nordau states, “Men of
unusual talents rarely leave offspring.” Should
they, however, beget children, these rarely in-
herit their excellencies, for mental excellence is
seldom transmitted; mayhap, because genius
usually mates with folly. Anyhow, the stupidity
of one parent is somehow always more con-
spicuous in the result of anv union than the
wit of the other.
* * *
The privileged class, therefore, is not qualified
to develope an aristocracy of intellect, nor are its
efforts in the direction of corporeal supremacy
one whit more efficient. Too often “ the scion
of a noble house ” is not only an immoral and
uniutellectual cumberer of the ground, but a
bodily nonentity—a weak-eyed, hollow-chested,
ill-skinned inanity. The superior organic vigour
owned by the freebooter who founded the line f
has been frittered away during centuries of idle
debauchery and alliances for family reasons.
Par exempt, the union of a healthy maiden
with a blotched rone, or a stalwart youth with
some sapless and soured, blue-blooded .and
yellow-skinned relic of antiquity. The bodily-
perfect aristocrat (he is as rare as the
white blackbird) is usually the result of
mesalliance. Some recent ancestor has quickened
the stagnant pool of blue blood by marrying his
well-proportioned cook or some generously-
limbed Tottie from the front row oUthe ballet,
or some bright-eyed, clean-skinned American or
Australian girl. This transfusion of fresh blood
frequently invigorates, physically, a declining-
race, though it can scarcely effect any improve-
ment of a moral or intellectual character.
* # *
Fitznoodle reaches manhood, apparently
under the most favourable auspices. He is
backed up by great family influence, and has
the handling of some thousands annually. In
reality, he is sorely handicapped by indisposition ■
for exertion, predisposition to vice, irresolution,
mental and physical uselessness, and all the
minor faults that gather around a thoroughly
irresponsible being. Consequently, when his
much-relieved relations drop him gently into
an early tomb, no one is surprised to leant that
on the debtor side of his life’s ledger stand
broken laws, disgraced friends, ruined homes,
wasted opportunities and financial liabilities
that run into five or six figures, while the sole
remaining asset is that worm-eaten and moss-
grown chestnut—Good Family. Yet, folks
will be found to say that such books can be
balanced. Verily, despite a partial starter and
a strabismussed judge, in most instances, Blue
Blood finishes a bad .last in the race for life, ;
and seldom earns the oats provided by a public,
who are poor judges of human flesh.
* * «
", Let the doubter of the verity of this indict-
ment run his eye over the list of four hundred
ahd seventy odd peers who, plus twenty-six
ecclesiastics, compose the House of Lords and
acknowledge that it does not contain a dozen
inheritors of titles who have earned distinction
in any enviable, pursuit. Wife-beaters, adul-
terers, gamblers, debauchees, and noodles
abound, but not one genius who inherited his
position, scarce five men of more than ordinary
mental capacity, few of pre-eminence, as Aus-
tralians well know, in any sport where their
performances can be compared with those of
the bourgeois and manual-labour amateur or
professional. Truly has John Bright said :
“ The peers have entered the temple of honour,
not through the door of merit but through the
sepulchres of their ancestors. They are no
better than their fathers, and some are worse.
They are the spawn of the blunders, the wars
and corruptions of the dark ages of our history.
Their privileges have produced ignorance and
arrogance.”


The thoughtless and illogical beings who con-
sider that the aristocrat occupies a similar
position among men to that filled by the blood
horse in the animal kingdom, forget that even
were the cases analogous as regards sexual
selection, the speed and bottom of the
horse are due not only to breeding, but also to
the continuous training which has developed
the rudimentary faculties of the animal and his
progenitors. The horse, unlike the aristocrat,
is valuable, moreover, not simply because he is
well-bred, but because his conformation, intelli-
gence and amenability to discipline fit him
to perform offices which mankind, in the main,
consider beneficial. On the other hand, the
aristocrat is not amenable to the disciplinary
training and dieting necessary for the develop-
ment and use of his latent abilities, is disin-
clined to perform any useful office, and prefers
to exist by means of expropriation. Therefore,
his place in the human family is more compar-
able to that of a beast of prey, or a parasite —
the tiger, or tape-worm —than to that of the
horse in the animal kingdom.
mi*
What is the chief end of man? Surely to
strive not only for personal happiness but for
that of his fellow men, to toil for the race, to
strain continually after better, even if unattain-
able things. These conditions the aristocrat
makes no attempt to fill. Further: Wherein
do men differ most widely from the lower
animals ? In that they are capable of intelligent
and co-operative effort in various directions and
the storage of impressions for the use of future
generations. By means of this evolutionary
capacity, man lias liberated himself from the
ignorance that enveloped his primary state.
Further evolution is dependent on the never-
ceasing exertion of his faculties. He may not
stand still; the stagnant must decay, and that
which will not progress must retrogress. The
very existence of the useless, unreceptive
“ blue-blooded man of family ” strengthens the
Darwinian argument concerning the descent of
man, for, ever and anon, these throw back to
their progenitors the quadrumana, and supply
what science vainly looks for in other quarters
—the Missing Link.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Historical Education.
The London Echo again ;
The ohief hope of the Separatist Party lies in the
“ native ” Australians, as they are called, somewhat
ambiguously. They are practical, but unimaginative,
and in their school education the history of England and
of Europe, ancient and modern, is completely neglected.
The ignorance of the Australian native evidently
weighs with a ponderous load upon the Echo’s
consciousness, and The Bulletin confesses
with regret that the said native really is
desperately ignorant in many respects. And
yet he knows several things that are not taught
as a rule in English history, and that the
average Englishman seems unable even to hear
about, though they are shouted into his ear
with a voice of dynamite. He knows, for
example, that the great war with France at the
beginning of this century was not the glorious
affair it was cracked up to be, but a mere series
of butchering expeditions got up by a crowd of
bigots to re-establish the meanest tyranny on
earth, and to wipe out an oppressed people be-
cause they struggled to be free. He knows that
the English history of Napoleon is a hollow lie,
because that great soldier’s wars were almost
all forced upon him by the intrigues, bribes,
treachery, and remorseless bigotry of England ;
and he also knows that though the story of the
Peninsular victories looms very large in English
history, they don’t read so well in the books of
Jomini and other historians, and they are
pretty well counterbalanced by the ghastly
ruin in the Netherlands, which is somehow left
out. Likewise, that the story of Waterloo
reads very well until you hear what the
Prussian historians have to say about it.
Also the native has read up a great deal about
the atrocious villainy of the broken treaty of
Limerick, and now and then he has noticed
that though Cressy and Agincourt —the battles
by which England gained half of France—look
very conspicuous, the appalling series of
battles by which she lost France is mostly
omitted, probably to save space. Further, he
has hunted up the tale of the Irish penal laws
to some extent, and the sickening story of the
conquest of India ; and he has casually noticed
that the incident of the Armada was mainly an
attempt by Spain to extinguish English piracy,
and that the defeat of 150 ships by some 250
was not a very large affair after all. It is just
because the Australian native has looked up a
few of these old facts that his respect for the
English native—who doesn’t seem to have heard
of them —is diminishing a little, and when the
Australian has time to look up a few more little
items, including Majuba Hill, it is probable that
he will have no respect left at all.
“ A Helpless Spectacle.”
The voice of Mr. Justice Williams has again
been raised in protest against the mistaken
leniency of his fellow punishment-awarders and
the demoralising effects of mistaken mercy.
Starting on the assumption that long sentences
invariably prove the most effective repressive
agencies against repeated criminality as well as
the most powerful deterrents against incipient
rascaldom, he forthwith whelmed a couple of
prisoners awaiting the termination of his judicial
philosophies with an avalance of penal servi-
tude and solitary confinements. The popularity
of this very superficial reasoning cannot be
denied, but when Justice Williams went on to
remark that ‘ ‘ he trusted that his observations
■would be taken notice of by all the magistrates
of the colony and by Parliament,” he erro-
neously assumed his flabby utterances to be
possessed of a certain value, whereas in point
of fact they are most fairly represented by the
figure 0.- ,Had he drawn any profitable con-
clusions from his lengthy survey of Victorian
crime it would not be necessary to deplore
his blunderings in advocating exceptional
severity as the sole minimising expedient, but
beyond the bald statement that there is a lot of
crime about, and that this crime, when found out,
must be heavily punished, nothing remains
derivable therefrom suggesting any means for
reducing the criminal tendencies themselves.
The first adjuvant towards the subjection of
offences against others is to be found in estab-
lishing the principle that it should be the care
of the State to find work for all rather than
encourage its weaker members to be driven
from hunger to steal or rob. The second is the
perfection of the social police department to a
point which will render the certainty of detec-
tion universal and evil-doing correspondingly
unprofitable. The third is the education which
the State should impart to its adolescent
members, to the effect that anti-social prac-
tices must ultimately end in ruin, and
that the game is not worth the candle.
Lastly, as many persons are born with physical
constitutions wherein the industrial impulse is
entirely deficient, such should be treated as
victims of disease, and be temporarily segre-
gated for medical treatment, inasmuch as
punishment is powerless to effect a cure, and,
if anything, acts rather as an aggravation. To
empty the Yarra it is futile to commence by
baling out its waters at the sea outlet with a
pannikin, but the feat is easily surmountable
when initiated at a few feet from its source.
The former procedure is the one apparently
favoured by Mr. Justice Williams, “ Where’s
the Cat?” “ Garotted,” “Indignant Citizen,”
and such bogus philosophers.
*
The “Argus” and Parnell’s Girl.
The Argus, attempting to reconcile its denun-
ciations of pot Parnell with its unswerving
fidelity to certain blacker kettles in our midst,
snuffles —‘ ‘lt may be said that a community is
called upon to withhold its confidence from a
man who is false in private life. That is one
view of a wholesome and necessary rule. But
the other view is that the community has no
right to the private life of the citizen until by
judicial investigation or open scandal it fairly
becomes public property.” In other words,
the Argus— holding a brief for respectable
humbug—supports the modern custom of affect-
ing to believe that a public man is like the
beautiful snow until a venerable party in a wig
has expressly stated that the said man is a
monster of the deepest dye. The politician
who openly lives in adultery and escapes being
shown-up because he uses his big bank-balance
adroitly, or the drunken representative dullard
who privately toasts his alleged seductions in
bumpers of gold-top, is morally stainless so
long as he can keep out of the law-courts, and
the wide gulf which separates saints from
sinners is filled with printer’s ink. Shakespeare
had it that he who was robbed and knew it not
was never robbed at all. The Argus maintains
that social indiscretion doesn’t exist until it is
reported in the newspapers; a “wholesome and
necessary ” rule of life which is doubly false,
insofar that it confers upon Brown more virtue
than he is entitled to, whilst attributing to
Jones a relatively higher proportion of wicked-
ness than he deserves. If it be true that Par-
nell contemplates marriage with Mrs. O’Shea,
he would do well to lead that lady to the altar
on the same day that a certain distinguished
“ most noble ” Unionist politician gets himself
legally united to a certain titled widow. Then
the Argus may preach a pretty topical sermon
on the advisability of single gentlemen con-
fining their wholesome and necessary amours to
the wives of husbands who never dream of insti-
tuting proceedings in divorce. Bah ! The
Bulletin would like to get the Grand Old Man
into a corner and force him to explain why, at
the mere bidding of Mrs. Grundy, he refuses
to forgive in a recent ally the very same social
offence for which one of his former colleagues
has long been notorious in English society.
.»
“ Murder will Out.”
A few weeks ago some unscientific amateur
assassin left a stack of mangled remains in one
of the wild spots in the Gippsland bush, and,
according to that fate which treads on the heels
of the amateur butcher, they were presently
discovered and made the subject of much hostile
comment. The place was so lonely that twelve
months might reasonably have elapsed before
the next wayfarer passed by, but, as it chanced,
a stranger drifted along within a week, and
fell over a partially-severed head and sundry
amputated legs, and in a few days more the
alleged murderer was arrested and prejudged
by the newspapers, and found guilty in an
informal way on the promiscuous testimony of
people in general. And then, as usual, the
moral Press published the old, old homily about
the Nemesis which follows on the track of the
assassin, and told the venerable wheeze con-
cerning the way in which the victim’s skeleton
invariably rises in judgment against the oppres-
sor, and drew a gruesome picture of the fleshless
bones that are trodden down in caves and
planted in hollow trees, and which always rise
at last to clatter on the homicide’s wake and
bring him to eternal grief. The theme of all
their ravings was that “ murder will out,”
and apparently the world accepts the old
saying as gospel, because all the murders
which it knows about have come out, and as
for the murders which have not come out, the
world knows nothing about them, and conse-
quently they have no bearing on the case. How
numerous these latter may be no one is ever
likely to discover. The corpse which is found
buried beneath a few inches of soil is no
evidence that murder invariably comes to light;
it merely proves that the other corpse—the one
which was never found and never missed—was
buried several feet deeper, and planted by a
more intelligent malefactor. Successful as-
sassination is one of the fine arts. The homi-
cide who breaks down in the pursuit of his
calling is the coarse, illiterate, unthinking,
nervous individual who rushes his prey with an
axe, and scatters brains and gore all over the
premises, and he falls, not through any direct
intervention of Providence, but because of the
splash he leaves behind him on the floor. The
mystic Fate which hunts him down is no super-
natural influence, but a common, earthy
agency at 7s fid a day, and it is guided partly,
it may be, by the bony finger of the victim
pointing the road to vengeance, but chiefly by
“information oi resayved” at the adjacent
public-house. When it gets hold of the wrong
man, which frequently happens, the case is
instantly decided against him by the force of
public prejudice, for it is assumed by an
ignorant and superstitious race of alleged
Christians that he was traced by the hand of a
beneficent Creator instead of by the No. 18 foot
of Policeman O’Toole, and the hoof of the
common “ cop.” is mistaken for the footprint of
the Almighty. The moral assumption that
murder always comes to light naturally involves
the further assumption that Providence, in some
mysterious way, takes a direct interest in the
business, and, therefore, when the most likely
man is arrested, and condemned by the Press,
and hanged, without any semi-supernatural
interposition on his behalf, it is taken for
? ranted that everything is perfectly correct.
r et it is more than probable that at least fifty
per cent, of the homicides committed are neither
discovered nor suspected, for either Nemesis is
dead or else there never was any Nemesis at
all, and its substitute —the thing which occa-
sionally drops on some stray crime, and now
and then runs down the perpetrator, and hangs
him at chance intervals —is a feeble, common,
material object, because no one can afford to
be a Providence at 7s. 6d. per diem. Murder,
conducted on an.intelligent and scientific basis,
is probably as safe a pursuit as bricklaying or
philanthropy, or bribing members of Parlia-
ment, but as it publishes no statistics the results
are only a matter of conjecture, and the Pate
which chases the murderer is as persistent, and
as intelligent, and as much liable to err as the
Fate which chases the individual who is sus-
pected of embezzling a spoon.
♦
The Democratic Victory. £
The Democratic party—the alleged party of a
non-existent Free trade —has carried the day in
the late American elections, but to all appear-
ance the visionary Freetrade reaction is further
off than it ever was before. Excepting for the
fact that Henry George has still got an im-
practicable project for doing something that is
impossible, even the name of Freetrade is hardly
mentioned, and the attempt to father the policy
of Cobden and Bright on to the old faction of
Jeff. Davis is as hopeless as the attempt to
prove that Parkes originated the Ten Com-
mandments. The actual and visible difference
between the American Democrat and the
American Republican lies chiefly in the fact
that there is only enough plunder to go half-way
round, and consequently the nation must neces-
sarily be divided into the faction which has the
boodle and the other faction which wants to
have it. Even this matter, however, might be
compromised if it were not for that spirit of
infuriated contradiction which underlies all
modern systems of constitutional government,
and which makes it essential that when any
politician says anything there should always be
someone on hand to say that he is a liar, and
when any statesman does anything there should
be someone always ready to state that he is a
thief and a scoundrel, and the son and brother
of a monkey. Nominally the Democrats repre-
sent the old sentiment of the South, and the
Republicans that of the North ; but the dis-
tinctive spirit of the South has long since been
swamped by the upheaval of the cheap nigger,
and the irruption of the Yankee carpet-bagger,
and the syndicate, and the book-canvasser;
and neither Democracy nor Republicanism has
now any fixed abiding place, or any fixed prin-
ciple, except the conviction that the other party
has no principle at all. The idea that the
Democratic majority will attempt the establish-
ment of Freetrade is even more antediluvian
than the idea that it will attempt the re-estab-
lishment of slavery, for the latter was at one
time a Democratic axiom, while the former
never was. The tariff disputes of the United
States are merely a question as to different
modes of Protection; the idea of abolishing
Protection is as far removed from the domain
of practical politics as is the idea of abolishing
the earth itself.
*
Burning the Records.
Addressing the electors at Perth (W.A.), Mr,
Cowthorpe, one of the candidates, remarked
that ‘ ‘ he considered it the bounden duty of the
first West Australian Prime Minister to order
that the whole of the Imperial records at the
establishment at Freemantle should at once be
committed to the flames. (Applause.)” Now,
Western Australia, at the instance of the
dominant wealthy families, who, having grabbed
all the best land, wished to obtain gratuitous
labour to work it with, solicited that she
should be made a convict sink. When the
united opinion of the eastern half of Australia
was brought to bear upon the question, the
deportation ceased and the “ establishment at
Freemantle”—in other words, the prison—
built by the Imperial authorities, only received
local offenders. In view, then, of the future,
and the possible development of many wealthy
families from this unpromising source, it may
be strict wisdom to burn the records, and the
applause with which the proposal was treated
was doubtless heartfelt. New South Wales did
not do it in such a straightforward manner.
Free-selection Jack insisted on a bonfire when
there was a removal into the first instalment
of Sydney Public Library many years ago. The
Garden Palace fire was credited with destroying
some more papers, but enough still remain in
the vaults of the Colonial Secretary’s office to
cause some consternation in high-toned society
if produced. But to return to West Australia
and the inconsistency of her conduct. While
anxious to destroy all records of the convict
days, she still to the present hour employs such
men as are unfortunate enough to come within
the grasp of the law on work in the public
streets and places of her chief towns. At the
railway-station at Perth a man in moleskins,
with the broad arrow on them, sweeps the
platform and does other menial offices. Small
gangs of convicts work at public buildings cheek
by jowl with the citizens amongst whom they
will afterwards have to strive to rehabilitate
themselves. Which is the worse ? A hidden
record, or the living presence in the streets of
unfortunates advertising their own disgrace in
prison suits? A similar iniquity prevails in
New Zealand.
The Lag Leaven in the Law.
The Victorian Executive has just “commuted”
the death-sentence passed on a man named
Malone, for criminal assault, to fifteen years’
imprisonment and three lashings. The Vic-
torian Executive Council is on this showing a
body which thinks that it is merely human
life, and not humanity which has to be
considered. This brutal Dahomey an sen-
tence may be according to the code, but if
so the code is a savage beast, and what shall we
say of its administrators ? There is, we repeat,
no community in the world outside Australia
and the realms of King Coffee-Calcali which
can exhibit such a revolting example of insen-
sate ferocity. Give the man a long sentence —
well and good, perhaps. But as you admit by
“ commuting ” his. sentence that your criminal
is not bad enough to kill, why torture
him ? The Bulletin is perfectly aware that
there exists in Australia a large class —descen-
dants of convicts and convict officials, and of
others who lived under the Lag Regime—people
educated under the fell influences more or less
direct of the convict system, who believe in
torture, and it is, we presume, in vain to point
out to them that whatever logical connection
there may be between deliberate acts of calcu-
lating criminal brutality on the one hand and
legal vengeance by flogging on the other, there
is and can be none between overmastering
sexual passion and cold-blooded torture; that
where the most rigorous discipline is required,
as in the British army and navy, flogging has
been abolished ; that in no other army or navy
is flogging employed; that flogging is now a
punishment solely reserved in England for
garotters and burglars who rob with violence
and is never applied to sexual offences ; that no
man has ever, in any civilised country, been sen-
tenced to a long imprisonment with superadded
torture ; that no German, French, Italian, Aus-
trian, Danish, Swedish, Swiss, Dutch, Spanish,
or Portuguese citizen or soldier can be legally
flogged ; that even in barbaric Russia flogging
takes place not in accordance with law, but
only happens secretly in prisons, according to
the caprices and behests of the minions
of a despot; that Anglo-Saxon brutality
has so far been toned down in the United
States by the gracious influence of cos-
mopolitanism that there is now but one State
(Delaware), and that the smallest and meanest
State in the Union where a man can—thanks to
the survival of a Puritanism which had its origin
in England—be tied up to the triangles ; even in
Delaware there is but one floggable offence, that
of wife-beating, in which case, though the flog-
gingbe sharp the imprisonment is short. Apropos
to Malone’s case, we may remark that though
no convicts were _ever exported to Vic-
toria direct, they got there all the same;
and so did the spawn of the ruffians and
savages who were sent out to harry them.
Brutal punishment means brutal people. The
world-wide publication of such a blasphemy
against civilisation as that involved in Malone’s
‘ ‘ commuted ” sentence means the assertion of
either one or two things (or perhaps both of
them) : 1. The people of Australia are the most
brutal on the face of the earth, those of Western
Africa alone excepted. 2. The law-makers of
Australia are the most brutal law-makers on
the face of the earth, bar none. Is it not enough
for Society to make of its enemies prisoners-of-
war ? Or must Society disfigure the corpses of
those whom it has had to slay socially ?
Editor Bulletin.— Sir,—Don’t you think, now
that the affair is past, that Speaker Abbott
showed very bad form and set a very bad ex-
ample in continuing to occupy the Chair of the
New South Wales Assembly while the (now
admittedly baseless) charges made against him
by Mr. Crick remained uninvestigated? The
fact that neither Premier nor Parliament would
move in the matter was no reason why the
Speaker, against whom such a serious charge
had been made, should not have taken steps to
clear himself of imputed dishonour. When
fate, in the form of tempest and shipwreck and
a valueless insurance policy, compelled Speaker
Young to arrange with his creditors, he (after
some consideration, I admit) resigned the Chair
of the Assembly, while Speaker Abbott,
publicly accused of accepting a huge bribe, sat
glued to bis seat, and did not publicly ask for
an enquiry. When a British officer is accused
of any improper act, he demands a court-
martial. Why did not the highest officer in the
Assembly do the same ? Is he less jealous of
his honour than a captain of a marching regi-
ment or a sub-lieutenant of a gun-boat ? The
public looks to the Speaker for example. It
has not been forthcoming.—N.
■ —■ —
The boss muddlers of Melbourne Centennial
Exhibition waited upon Lord Hopetoun the
other day, and without a particle of pomp and
circumstance handed him their final report of
the forgotten show. It was an abject little
ceremony, and when the Governor had laid
a cold, apathetic paw upon the inevitable
handsome casket in which the report attempted
to hide its shame the official deputation slunk
off with their tails draggling through the dust,
and there was an end of the bloated job. From
this last dying confession of the Melbourne
Exhibition Commissioners it appears that they
“did in ” £238,000, a small percentage of that
sum having gone to purchase gold, silver and
bronze medals for the great official gang. There
were 409 gold medals distributed amongst cor-
pulent deadheads as against a paltry 76 awarded
to exhibitors, which figures may be commended
to the earnest consideration of those innocents
who imagine that , these periodical bazaars are
promoted for the encouragement of any manu-
factures except that of bad ‘ ‘ gas. ”
■ ’
That kleptouvuiia differs from ordinary plain
robbery solely by a discrepancy in motive
favours the suggestion that the kleptomaniac
should be incarcerated and the burglar per-
mitted to go free. All forms of insanity are
primarily attributable to insatiate greed. In
the sane person, cunning restrains the acquisitive
tendencies, whereas in the case of the insane
this caution is lacking. The man who steals
not for life-necessities but from involuntary
instincts is .the individual who really needs
medical attention and judicious restraint. The
want-driven thief has no need of reformation;
he merely requires sufficient bread.


[?]
BJ6 Macquarie-street North, Sydney', Dec. 29, 1890.
My Dear Moorarinda, —
I have already fallen in love with the Sydney “ Garrick”
theatre, a “homey” little piace got up in old gold and
ruby plush, with the chairs at a lovely tilt, and the
orchestra, the members of which have usually to sneak
out on all-fours when the act commences, fixed below
high-actor mark, as it were, so that its component parts
can go and come in peace without the usual crooked-
backed go-as-you-please. The pink and blue drapery of
the boxes is rather too light in tone for the rest of the
colouring, but the back row' of the circle will be the
position par excellence for the ivoman who likes to pose,
since the screen is of padded crimson velvet, than which
no more becoming complexion set-off was ever thought
of. A flight of marble steps leads up to the dress circle,
and though these are cool and pleasant just now, society
had better not wear its shoes up them w'hen the winter
winds do blow, unless it possesses an “infallible”
chilblain specific, or takes something to warm its feet
when it gets home.
The official opening of the Garrick (politicians, press-
men, Thespians, and other suspicious characters had in-
fested it for weeks before) to the strains of the National
Anathema (which the gallery hissed at like serpents) was a
great success—the d.c. being crowded. “ Moths” w'as the
preliminary shriek, and Olga Nethersole, an inspired,
emotional creature, who wore her hair ala madonna, and
had an artistic little way of keeping up the spirit of the
act—and not grinning coqueftishly when the curtain was
raised after a scene of sobs and blank despair—was a
success. As Vere Hubert, she gained a shower of
bouquets and baskets at the end of the first act, and
vegetables occurred intermittently during the play, which
w’ent splendidly, and was very well mounted—the
“Szarisla” interior with the leaping firelight, the old
furniture and the tinkling sleigh-bells being most artistic.
The dressing throughout the play was good. In the first
act, Vere was a dowdy, of course, in a trying grey frock
and a horrible plate-hat, and the naughty thought occurs as
one gasps at her toilette in act 3, that if she learnt nothing
good from giddy society it at least showed her how to
dress. The second gown was white sat in, skirt in strips over
white lace and was nothing breathless, but the drapery in
act 3 ought to be written in capital letters. The long
train coming from the right shoulder was of white satin
brocaded with white velvet flowers, and edged on one
side with brown fur, the entire front of the dress of rows
of crystal fringe—a white satin wide sash bow and ends
edged with crystal fringe falls at the left hip; white
gloves, shoes, and fan ; three diamond stars in the
hair finish off a get-up that “ leaves nothing,” &c., &c. In
the last act Olga wears a clinging, trained gown of soft
white stuff fastened with diamond buttons, and though
there isn’t much composition about the gown, the cut is
all there, and as Miss Nethersole is tall and well-made*
with a countenance like unto that of a saint with a halo
on, she looks better without trimmings. The throng of
giddy duchesses, naughty peeresses (by the way, why
didn’t Gwynne make up Lady Doily correctly in a blonde
wig?) and the rest of the exalted Totties were as well
groomed ns they could manage from start to curtain-
excepting “ Fuschia Leach,” whose blatarS pinner-frock
in several shades of jarring heliotrope dip violence to the
artistic susceptibilities of yours truly.
The first dazzling vision of Pantomime “Dick Whitting-
ton ”at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Christmas Eve
attracted a full house under a sort of diluted vice-regal
patronage: Private-Secretary Helbert, with the leading
he-blonde of ’Opetoun’s suite, and two other semi-nobles,
occupying the gubernatorial box for a time. Watts-
Phillips and Mrs. Rignold in the manager’s box were
squired by two of the Cordelia’s officers, but the circle
wasn’t very lively, Pattie Brown, in grey silk and lace
and diamonds, escorted by Dion Boucicault, whose
hysteric laugh sounded as if it worn ted oiling—being about
the only beauteous vision I saw in front. As Dick, ever-
green Maggie Moore, who sings and dances all the time,
wears only one special suit—a sage-green velvet
doublet over pale sea-green hose, and velvet cloak
lined with pale-yellow silk Madge Seymour looks
prettiest in the pale-blue fleshings, satin jacket and soft
lace skirt of the second act, and Mabel Tracey -very
much like Edith Blande in “ Sin bad the Sailor”—cuts a
very fine Agger of a gal in the heliotrope satin and silver
lace of the last act. As Fairy Silvertone Bessie Rignold
(who acts as if she were shy) wears pink tights under a
cloud of white gauze, and is delightful in a quaint fairy
trio with a sudden staccato: chirp that is very elfish ;
while, among the “supes,” the Essie Jenyns-like carriage
of a Morocco lady principally remarkable for a pair of
w hite tul.’e trousers adds greatly to the thrill.
In “Di :k,” Harry Hoyte joins in a duet (“doubtful ”)
wherein allusions are made to those naughty bookies who
ran away to avoid paying over Carbine. Hoyte (Emily
Fitzroy’s husband, I am told) sings this verse with his
very soul, as he and Harry Jew ett stood to win a hundred
each over that immortal horse, but when they went to
draw their wager the sporting, gentleman left unob-
trusively by the sky-light and was seen pa more.
t
night. Mr. S. Churchill Otton wall personally conduct
the low-note warbler through the show-towns of the
Flowery Land.
The A.J.C. Summer Cup Meeting, held on Boxing-day,
wasn’t a specially select festival. The crowd was some-
thing to remember: a seat on the grand-stand while a
race was being run being a vain ambition to hundreds of
weary soles. The Members-stand was well filled, though
many society people are mountain-climbing just now with
alpenstocks emblazoned with a full account of their
owners’ daring ascent of the city dust-heap or an embank,
ment behind the railway-station ; nevertheless, there was
a goodly array of garments on view. Mrs. Burdekin,
accompanied by the Mayor and Mr. Penn Bradly, the
mayoral private secretary, was present and wore a confcc-
tion that reminded me of an evening primrose in a
pea-soup sunset. The plain skirt was in silky striped
material of a pale-yellow colour with yoke and ridged
sleeves of palest pink ; pink chiffon sunshade and small
plate-hat trimmed with pink bows—a most becoming
turn-out. Miss Garran presented a pretty effect in cream-
silk, with a scarf of mauve chiffon about her neck, a straw
shovel-hat and cream feathers. Miss Fosbery went in
for simplicity in a lilac cotton, glorified with guipure and
;a scoop filled with violets. Myra Kemble’s Paris-built
gown was a filmy impression of white chiffon embroidered
in violets, topped by a small bonnet en mite. The two
Misses Bloomfield wore dainty white muslin gowns, white
parasols and flat white hats. Miss Marks was in cream
chiffon with heliotrope silk sleeves, the bodice barred
with heliotrope ribbon, toque of pansies. Carrie Swain
was all in soft grey-silk, with a grey plume hat en suite m
Miss Cox in muslin, spotted with yellow ana trimmed
with bars of yellow and mauve velvet, string hat adorned
to match—and there were many more. One mannish
beauty in a tweed get-up wore a steel dog-chain from her
waist to her skirt pocket, anti she looked as if she had just
gotloose froriiherkennel. A nice little lady who had padded
herself vigorously in the wrong place, unwisely wore an
attractive vest in pink and blue stripes like a bon-bon,
and your Sappho also remarked a weird tendency among
the males to be strikingly original from the waist down-
wards, several wearing snow-white duck combinations
and long frock coats, while two dudeish innovators
wore yellow China-silk trousers ! and a third strolled
confidently about inside a pair of striped flannelette '•
This reminds me that I once met a male hayseed in the
middle of the block gorgeously arrayed in a full set of
pyjamas topped by anew straw hat. The vendors of
these confidential garments have a trick of displaying
them on lay figures crowned by a hat, and no doubt the
gentleman from Booligal thought it was the swellest full-
dress, and invested on the spot. He looked beautifully
cool though, in more ways than one.
Yours affectionately,
Sappho Smith.
SEASONABLE SONGLET.
When you smile as if it hurt you
And you sigh before you speak ;
When you yawn at injured Virtue
And your interest grows weak;
When you weigh the “ why ?” behind it—
When you’re sleeping half the time,
Can you wonder that you find it
“ Beastly slow—the pantomime ?”
A hen you sneer “ Tin, glass and wadding"
At,the transformation-scene,
A ilh a “ Gad ! - all rouge ami padding ”,
At the beauteous faery t^uecn,
When the music’s “ Beastly vamping;”'
And you see (where is the rhyme?)
Bunions on the ballet stamping—
Keep away from pantomime !
Jt’s for youngsters—fresh and foo'is’i,
“ Pretty ladies,” all the girls,
Demon horrors really ghoulish—
Ileal locks, the woolly curls.
Tinsel ? Jewels ! !—paper ? laces ! !
Ileal King the glittering mime—
Then the clown—“ what funny faces.”
Children’s heaven—pantomime !
Answers to Correspondents.
, “S.T.”: That sort of thing has been done to
. death since Dickens wrote his “Christmas Car 01”,...
“ Scrubber ” : The man who mispronounces a word lias the
least idea of the blunder. The Irishman and the Cockney
are the least likely to discover the peculiarities of their
lingo “Questioner”; (1.) Sydney is a good-enough
name. (2.) Merino or Woolsland, perhaps....“ A. G.” ;
There is a quick doctor of that breed in Sydney, but
we don’t know his address... “F.H.W.”: Verse fair, but
the Kyronic wail of the blase youth has been overdone.
When you sing: “Yet stay, my gloomy bosom, stay!”
the line suggests tight-lacing “Jay Wren:” The
“epitaph ”is very discursive. “The Stockman" is notso had
though your pronouns are vague, hut what do you mean
by jew-drops? “Q.”: Tne “Golden Shanty,” bound
in cloth, will be mailed you for half-a-crown. In
ordinary paper binding the price is Is. 3d. post paid
“ Edward” (New Zealand): The error is purely your own
and in no sense The Bulletin's. Read the paragraph
again. It simply asserts that the holder of property in
several electorates has the opportunity of selecting the
place to vote where his vote will most benefit his interests
while the residence qualification confines each worker to
his own district.,. “Teufel”: (1) Read “ Das Kapital,”
by Karl Marx ; Schaeffer’s “ Quintessence of Socialism,”
Gronlund’s “ Co-operative Commonwealth.” (2) The
“Tales of the System” will be published ere long
“The Roe”: Poetry? At this festive season you might
be more suitably and usefully employed plucking turkeys.
“J.H.L.”; As an Arctic poet you are a complete
frost— “ J.” (Forest Reefs): You ask us to “ hark to the
spirits climbing now.” We know; they’ve climbed up
into your top-storey....“ X. ”: The N.S.W. Parliament,
with two Houses, was established in the time of Governor
Denison “ Jas. Peroo ” : Western Australia will shortly
be overdone, we fancy “J. Ryan”: Yes, he needn’t
wear uniform; the warrant is enough. (2) You can
legally keep on your own premises ten million gallons of
whisky, so long as it has paid duty and you don’t sell it
without license “Twenty Years a Teetotaller”: You
are a man of only one idea and, like every other man Of
one idea, you are but partially sane in the true sense of
the term, for lunacy usually only means being taken in
charge by one idea. Fanatical teetotalism, like vege-
tarianism, and all such fads, is often found to
mean living on a low plane of existence like a walled-up
toad. Health very often depends not so much on how
much whisky a man drinks or does not drink, as on how
much fresh air he breathes “J. J.” (Darby’s Falls):
Even were the drawing of any use, it would only rank as
an idea. You are not yet competent to draw for the press.
We can’t reply by letter “J. W. W.” (B.): Ex-
cellent idea, joyfully accepted “ Two-forty-
one”: Good story “Appreciation”: Thanks
“ A.M.”: The N.S.W. electoral rolls are compiled between
the Ist and 28th of January. It is your bounden duty to
see that your name is put on. To do this, interview the
police-officer in whose charge the roll is “Nemo”;
Amusing, but thin. If the Bench had concluded that the
man charged with assault was a lunatic they would have
remanded him for medical examination “J.S.D.”:
Your humour is simply hideous “ W.M.A.” (Adelaide);
Will read— “H. W.P.”: Handed to artist “ J.P.S.” :
Sketches not up to the mark “Rich” (Tinapagee) :
Yes, the C.M.L. is a good institution “Theodore R.”
(Q.): Thanks ...“Joseph Becker”: Will print “Mys-
terious Guest” : It is against our rules to become bailees
of valuable manuscript. You may send us a copy. [Many
letters held over.]
Said Labouchere recently : “ The expres-
sion of a fashionably-dressed woman now is
emphatically one of nakedness. Her sleeveless
bodice cut half way to the waist, betrays much
and suggests more. Her large white arms, her
uncovered shoulders crossed with an airy line, her
bust displayed to the last inch permitted by the
law, which protects morality and forbids obscenity,
her back bared in a wedge-shaped track to her
band, the colour of her gown scarce distinguish-
able from her skin, and the ‘ fit’ one which moulds
the figure and makes no pretence at disguise—in
this indecent nudity she offers herself to public,
admiration; and the bold looks of the men are
the caresses which make her purr with pride and
pleasure. Her dress is her note of invitation.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Cinderella.”
Her Majesty's “Diok Whittington."
Criterion “ Impulse,”
Garrick “Moths.”
Cv'Jlora.ma .. Gettysburg.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING (WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Aladdin.”
New Bmou “ Dandy Dick."
Princess's . .. “Marjorie.”
Oi’kra House “Chilperic.”
Alexandra “The Phantom Ship."
“ Moths,” staged at Sydney Garrick
last week, lias not—if we remember aright—
been seen in Sydney since Marie De Grey’s
company played it at the Opera House about six
years ago. It is a strong and, as dramatised,
satisfactory story, whose main blemish is the
t dkiness of the first act which might advan-
tageously be cut down and xvelded on to the
second. The play demands for its faithful imper-
sonation a high degree of histrionic excellence all
round, yet, despite bad casting in one or two
instances, the bill is fully filled by the Garrick
company. The star, Olga Nethersole, as Yere
Herbert, looked a very massive maiden beside the
slim Lady Dolly of Emma Gwynne, and was too
solid and self-possessed to communicate the
idea of an inexperienced and shy country-
girl, Tiie first act ovei', however, her
distinct enunciation, musical if rather inflexible
voice, tine emotional power and good looks, com-
bined with her lack of staginess and self-con-
sciousness, gained her the good will of a very
demonstrative audience. Charles Cartwright (he
dresses badly throughout) appears a little too
abrupt in the early part of the play. Yonr
Russian prince may hide the Tartar underneath,
but you’ve got to scratch off the French polish ere
that is made evident. Otherwise his performance
was a very effective and highly original one—a
fact to be noted in this age of replicas. Edward
Sass’s manliness and direct blnntness have made
him a very great favourite with Sydney audiences,
even although their ineradicability prevented
him on several occasions from faithfully im-
personating characters not thus constituted.
Now that he has a “ straight ” part as Lord Jura,
a man built on similar lines, he plays it with a
pathos and lire that electrify the audience in the
last act and fairly entitle him to share honours
with the stars. Though, as usual, over glib,
Laurence Cautley is all right as the singer, Cor-
bzo, and his famous woman speech in the second
act is finely delivered. Nellie Lyons, who plays
Fuchsia Leach, has a lovely Amurikan accent, is
bright and easy-going, sings a little with much
good taste, and supplies the comedy touch that
intensifies the mirkyness of the dramatic shadows.
Her mate, Hans Phillips, as Lord Mull, is not
well placed ; he is suggestive of Corkett after
some months at a finishing academy. Alice
Deorwyn is a good de Sonnaz, though scarcely
snakey enough, but the part is more in her line than
in that of Emma Bronton, superseded through sick
ness. Lady Dolly should be represented as a
very full-blown, red and white, frothy feminine
voluptuary, and Emma Gwynne is physically un-
suited for the part, but nevertheless was far from
disappointing. Jenny Watt-Tanner, who might
have been differently placed with advantage tc
the cast, made the most of Princess Nadine. Mr.
Wilson got a big call for his drop on first night,
and his scenery throughout, like that of Mr,
Spoug, is very line. The little theatre, with its
easy entrances, electric-light, sliding roof and
sunken orchestra (by the way, Herr Kopflj Vere
is not a Traviata) is likely to become popular if—.
St. Maur, it is hinted, follows the present com-
pany, who are now rehearsing “ The Middleman.’
Sfc
At Sydney Criterion on Boxing Night a
holiday audieneedid not extend to Miss Maud Wil
liamson un her appearance in “Impulse,” B. C.
Stephenson’s adaptation of “ LaMaisondu Mari,”
the warm welcome she would have received from
the ordinary first-nighters. However, the new
actress is graceful and easy, and in addition to the
emotional power necessary to the impersonation of
Mrs. Macdonald has already caught the B. and B.
tone, and was soon quite at home in her new sur-
roundings. The Misses Romer and Enson never
make mistakes, two safer ladies it would be
difficult to find. Titheradge repeats a success of
some years standing as Captain Crichton.
Arthur Lawrencs—he has put on flesh since we
last saw him—is a lovely Sir Henry Auckland.
Percy Lyndal is an improving actor ; his Colonel
Macdonald is weakest when he interviews his
eloping wife in the inn. Frank Cates is well
placed as de Riel, and his French accent was
fairly well sustained. At present, it is impossible
to say whether “Impulse ” has caught on or not,
but “ Harvest ” is in course of preparation.
$£ tic
Sydney Her Majesty’s pantomime's most
creditable feature is its scenery, for which the
modest Mr. Clint, who was assisted by Messrs.
Vaughan and Owen, got numerous untaken
“calls” on first night. Otherwise, it is dull,
devilish dull. Its jokes are few and far between,
and, as a rule, not worth a chuckle ; its songs are
mostly stale, usually melancholy, and when
inclined to jollity their gaiety is suppressed by
their being taken to very slow time. The book,
for which Frank Ayrton and a gentleman exult-
ing in the satisfying name of Tucker are
responsible, is just about as bad as the ordinary
Australian pantomime-book usually is, perhaps
worse. It is chopped up in lines of various
length, and sometimes carries more feet to the
line than an infantry-regiment. Then the com-
pany are not suited to work of this character; it
is impossible to develope at a moment’s notice the
extravagance of expression, gesture and move-
ment which in another branch of the mimic
art it has been their business to suppress.
This pantomime crowd is gifted with lots of
singers, but only two vocalists. One, Maggie
Moore, is just about sung to death, and the other,
Julia Phillips, scarcely gets a show. Then Dick’s
songs are badly selected, have no bearing on the
story, and are utterly witless. For instance, ere
falling asleep at Highgate-hill, with his hand on
the head of his faithful cat, lie sings, “A Curl
from my Baby’s Head.” Rot’ Why not “A
Kink from my Tom-cat’s Tail?” The introduction
of a few more dances would wake the show up,
and it wants it. They’ve got the dancers, too :
Maggie Moore, Madge Seymour, Lucy Osborne,
Bessie Rignold, and Frank Ayrton, but they don’t
use them. Perhaps the best item in the song and
dance line is Ayrton’s “ Bush, h-sh the Bogie
Man ! ” a very clever piece of eccentric dancing.
Doubtless \V. and G. are aiming at the “Bogie”
man when they advfrtise that the words, music
and business « f certain Gaiety burlesques have
been copyrighted and infringers will be proceeded
against, but as the “Bogie” seems to be an old
American minstrel sung (it was sung by Fred
Gariml, we are told, in “ Robinson Crusoe " in


A GHOST
is not a photograph, nor a photo, a ghost—but a. good photo, is
true reflection of the original. For high-art photos, go to th
London Palace of Art,
to completion executed :
10 Park street, Sydney. Country photographers’ work from developement
at lowest prices. Bromides a speciality, Staff of artists kept tor working up*
“The Bulletin” Xmas Number.
A COPY of “ THE BULLETIN’S ”
CHRISTMAS NUMBER, the most
successful of all Australian Christmas Publica-
tions, will be posted during the ensuing week to
any given address on receipt at this office of
sevenpenee in stamps.
A Nervine.
HOUSFORD’S ACID PHOSPHATE.
Dr. F. S. Manisty, M.R.C.S., Gresford, Wrex-
ham, says; “I have used it as a nervine tonic,
and found it serviceable.”
Many ladies admire gray hair—on some other
person—but few care to try its effects on their
own charms. They need not, since Ayer’s Hair
Vigor restores gray hair to its original color.
Sold by druggists and perfumers.
vears ago), and is here sung to the
Sydney som .J nofc that G f Meyer Lutz, little
aSu has nob wilted a wilt up to date.
‘ y * # * *
Girdnev Riiya! pantomime is as gorgeous
md appointments as any that have
iD CoS beSe, and its scenery, painted chiefly by
gone beiw . t a big call on opening night,
( !? rd wise by Hennings and Brnnton, is altogether
otherwi J pantomime is weakest on the vocal
lo f y ’There isn’t a high-class vocalist or a truly
slde : singer in the crowd ; for Benham ain’t what
housed 1 to be, and the feminines are all very pxpey,
, Amin know. Then the songs, melodious
j°h Jtes in some instances, of those at the other
UP I Ire not particularly catchy; the. topical
Undous are dry and dusty, and the book is bo.shy
al and ame on all its feet. In fact, and we’re no
Toremiah, the modern pantomime gluts the eye,
S v tickles the ear and completely starves the
imagination and intellect. But the people are all
to the business. Everyone was weaned on
“ gags,” and they’ve all graduated idi variety shows
or comic opera, even Greville and Poulton. The
Ballets and marches, especially the Loudon im-
portation, reflect great glory on George Anson s
brother-in-law, Frank Emery, the most amiable
stage-manager on record, so different from the
Jear old chap who used to jump on his hat at every
rehearsal. The show of legs is particularly fine
and large. We saw one grand-dad with his eye-balls
on his cheek; he was glaring at a dark-eyed Juno m
nink tights who would be a splendid match for the
golden-haired amazon of the Nellie Stewart crowd.
“ Cinderella ” is the first pantomime we have
visited at the house where they let you out on the
premiere in time to swallow six drinks before
closing time. Verily, Emery is a great stage-
manager.
«* * *
J, L. Toole’s five nights at Sydney Royal
were only fairly productive. His performance as
Michael Garner in “Dearer than Life ” deserves
bracketing with his Harry Coke in “ Off the
Line,” and if the old gentleman had confined him-
self to pieces of this character his Australian repu-
tation would stand much higher. Eliza Johnstone
is apparently the most consistently good per-
former in the crowd; she hasn’t done a weak thing
up to date. The Uncle Ben of John Billington
was very good, though not up to the high standard
of his John Beerybingle. Toole plays in New-
castle for a week; future movements seem uncer-
tain.
,** * *
They’ve been a-goin’ of it at Sydney
Cyclorama during the holidays. American
military songs, descriptive recitations, bugle-calls
in d organ-solos being dished-np every evening,
and the whirr of the turnstile is music to the
shareholders’ ears. But out of four ballads the
other evening, three were plaintive wails about
“ Mothaw !” That’s tiring.
$ * # Hf
Numerous Sydney performers have taken
advantage of the festive occasion to snatch the
fleeting bob. Tracey and Adson, with Florence
Schuler and others, are playing at the School of
Arts; the Bairnsfathers are warbling at the
Temperance Hall, and Professor Anderson is
loing dark deeds at the Gaiety.
** * *
At Coogee Aquarium large houses have
oeen common during the holidays. The Martyne
Family, Madame Zonida, the trapezeist, the
make-charmer, Lecardo, Ventriloquist Beckford,
;he iron-jawed lady, and many others, perform
lere till further notice is given.
* * *
Thirty odd different shows were given at
Bondi Aquarium on Boxing Day, and the manage-
nent promises an equally great programme for
New Year’s Day. The shark-pond contains a
.remendous blue-nose; Manager Wyburd styles
lira a man-eater, and attributes his total absten-
mce from food to the fact that he has been reared
.vholly on human flesh—in the vicinity of a baby
'arm, we presume. Signor Ziska, Ventriloquist
Hermann and the Circassian boy, who recites with
i fine Cork-Surry-hills accent, are showing at the
Iving-street hall.
ť
them in the eye. Then Dampier finds it neces-
sary to blot-out 7cwt. of the gold lest it should
break the hero’s back, and he draws his pen
through thirty-four of the largest bushrangers, so
as to make them more manageable, and when he
comes across a woman who has been lost for
eighteen days without food or water, he fixes
branches on to her and turns her into a tree as a
sacrifice to probability, and just when he has got
over these difficulties ho finds that the new-chum
in the first act has been altogether forgotten, and
must either be struck out altogether or else be
used as an aboriginal. Generally he gives up at
this point, and another Australian drama goes to
join the heap under the table.
* * *
When Sara Bernhardt plays Cleopatra she
does not wear clothes, in the ordinary acceptation
of the term, but attires herself in desperately
picturesque oriental drapery which seems to be
simply thrown on to her classic form, and fastened
nowhere in particular. It isn’t tied on, neither is
it pinned, and it isn’t sewn together—it merely
floats around her like a thing of air and mist,
with all sorts of gauzy nothings flying around,
till she looks like a diaphanous creature with legs
and feet made out of clouds and a body con-
structed chiefly of haze. Mrs. Brown-Potter
tried the same scheme once or twice, notably in
“Hero and Leander,” but she had to grab the
ends of her airy drapery every now and then, and
hitch things up, and there was always an element
of uncertainty about the business. And finally,
when she made her last appearance before the
curtain on her last night in Melbourne, something
gave way in three places or thereabouts and the
results had better be discussed as little as possible.
There was only about a yard of drapery altogether,
and the distracted Brown-Potter fled with it in
one hand, gagging a shriek with the other, while the
audience laughed a great, sinful horse-laugh over
her misery.
** * *
Australian theatricals will remember John
Drew, the best Irish comedian ever seen here in
the line of Handy Andy and the Irish Emigrant.
His widow is Mrs. John Drew who is now the fore-
most old woman actress in America, while her
son, Mr. John Drew, is Yankeeland’s jeune pre-
mier,, and is now supporting the great Ada Behan
in London.
** * *
Melbourne has started a fasting-man ot it 8
own who is famishing officially at the Waxworks-
He undertakes to starve in the old, orthodox>
gruesome way for 40 days and 40 nights, and then
he will sorrowfully collect his share of the gate-
money and vanish round the corner. This is his
part of the business ; the business of the public is
to pay its humble contribution at the door, and go
in to look at him with a cold, ignorant eye, and
wonder why on earth he seems so desperately
like everybody else. When he is finished he will
be of no more use to the world than if he had gone
without boots for 40 centuries, or backed himself
to eat 800 pigs’ feet in 800 years. By and bye this
fact will dawn upon somebody, and then the
human race will leave the next fasting man
violently alone, and will rise up and take no
notice of him with great velocity— in other words,
it will suddenly let him keep on fasting, and then
there will be no gate-money. A person of this
kind is a slow kind of exhibition at the best,
and he resembles nothing to much as an
athletic contest in which all the competitors
sit down, and the one who sits longest
takes the stakes. He has also some features in
common with that species of competition in which
ten men conceal themselves at the bottom of a
coal pit, and when nine of them are struck by
lierhtning the survivor collars the pool. The only
fun to be got out of a fasting man lies in betting
which of his bones will stick out first, and the
average man lias so many bones, and the fasting
man has so many more bones than the average,
that this is but an alleviated form of mirth after
all. The Bulletin has always been ready and
willing to encourage any reasonable form of
athletic sports, and if a legitimate contest of any
kind is started, such as a race between an ancient
Sanscrit rumour and an exhausted coal-field, it will
plank its coin cheerfully on the event. But so
long as it retains its senses it firmly declines to
bet on a fasting man.
Now, “Majorie’s” the story of a me-di-e-val
charmer
vVhose hand is sought in marriage by a Norman
earl in armour,
foiing By ley, who could never look on girls but
what he kiss't ’em —
Twas a rather pleasant feature of the good old
Feudal System.
But the dainty Saxon charmer, having reached a
fond age,
Jas lost her heart to Braey, he, alas ! is held in
bondage
By that naughty Norman noble (rather rough
upon the sonny,
Seeing how that father Elton had paid up a sum
of money
\nd made himself a freeman, and begun to sport
‘a jester)
Hie scene is laid, or should be, in the neighbour-
hood of Chester.
lis wrath that naughty noble at the metre deigns
to turn on,
And gives poor Tenor Braey to his neighbour,
Howard Vernon,
seedy sort of knight who often goes without his
supper—
r«st here we ought to mention that he’s Mar-
,( jorie’s papnppa.
so, having settled matters in this Norman Con-
quest fashion,
fhe noble, talks to Marjorie about his tender
passion;
Jo looks a gallant person, yet his wooing seems
to bore her;
"hen who should coma along but little Graupner
'(known as Flora) !
’he manages by artifice that ardent Earl to
snavel,
Wd he marries Flora Graupner in mistake for
Frances Saville.
uho a lot of inches taller in her stockings on the
, sta f? e is—
iv hich proves that Earls were “dotty,” even in
the Middle Ages.
Ihe rage of noble Byley, being very quick to
kindle,
is terrible to witness' when he “tumbles” to the
swindle.
wit, whilst denouncing Flora as a humbug to her
face, he
ls knocked into a jelly by the sight of Tenor
Braey
.the He<xd of twenty soldiers, to the wars about
to Lad ’em,
hich is doosid odd, considering he hasn’t got his
freedom.
mil Braey snorts at Byley, asking why the Earl
mas tarried ?
I| ie noble hangs his head (yon see, he wanted to
get married),
ŧ
At Poverty Point.
Paris always lias its oafc-chantant belle, the successor
of Theo. andJudic, the present one being Mdlle. Yvette,
while a recent one was Demay, who was introduced to
Renan, when, says Renan, “I have heard of you.” Replied
Deni ay, “ I’ve heard of you, too.”
Emily Fitzroy, the young Australian actress, is pictured
and biographied in the Sporting News, with the informa-
tion that she was taken to Australia, from England, quite
as a child ! This child, mind you, was then married, and
there must have been room for the same objection as over
the poor little Indian widows—she became a widow, too,
and is married to her second husband.
Gladstone recently wrote a letter to Madame Patti, to
the effect that English songs coming from her Italian
lips, were sweeter than golden syrup. The Grand Old
Man didn’t use those exact words, but he got there all
the same.
The Tenterfield Caledonian society engaged 14 pipers
for New Year’s Day. Great Scott!
It is said that .1. E. Sullivan has engaged with \V. and
G. for a twelve months’ English and Australian engage-
ment commencing in July next.
R. R. Moore, who died the other day, was one of the
most promising lawyers Adelaide has produced. He was
an excellent Shakespearean scholar, and had probably the
finest Shakespearean library in Australasia.
At a Sydney smoke-concert the other night a man was
asked to oblige with “The Road to Ruin,” a song which
closes with a suicide. He replied: “ I’d be very ’appy to
oblige, but I’ve come out without my gun.”
George Lee, who has spent twelve years travelling Aus-
tralia as theatrical manager with the Charles Taylor and
Ella Carrington Company among others, goes to England
with .1. L. Toole as manager. May he be lucky.
It is amusing to see how the reputedly-wealthy head of
a Brisbane firm continually gets “ads.” in the papers
concerning his fondness for the drama when a boy m
London The individual in question, it is alleged, never
knew anything but County Galway till he landed in Aus-
tralia. .
E. T. Smith, the temperance-showman who calls himsel 1
“The Second Gough,” expresses great displeasure at the
manner in which he has been financially treated by the
teetotal bodies up North.
The story comes from London of the husband of an
actress who accepts cigars from the hand that gave his
wife a carriage. He walks away from the stage-door in
one direction, smoking; she drives off in another—
spooning!
In London Haymarket revival of “ Called Back,” Petroff
hurls Macari, after stabbing him many times, over a
precipice, and he plunges into the invisible abyss dragging
with him two small fir-trees in his despairing clutch.
Florence St. John has recovered £3OO damages (which
she devotes to charitv) f rom Sporting Truth for a libel
which stated that her diamonds were ‘stolen’ and
‘ recovered ' solely for advertising purposes.
Billy Warner trains and rides his own racehorses a(
Brisbane.
When Harry Rickards took his Brisbane benefit he was
assisted by several amateurs. Three of them insisted on
reciting “ The Charge of the Light Brigade.” ’Arry’s
very, very ill, indeed.
W. H. Manning is resting in Sydney. He says things
are bad in Maorifand.
Arthur Greenaway, whose poetic soul soars above
pantomime, goes to his native village, Ballarat, to give
the girls a treat during the holiday season.
Says an ill-informed London paper : —“ The crutch and
toothpick brigade are waxing impatient to feast their
eyes on the shapely form of Miss Pattie Brown, the
American burlesque actress whom Mr. Toole has picked
up and added to his company. She is described as
‘graceful in contour, elegant in action; a charming
singer ; and an accomplished actress.’ Verily, of such
are the virgins who nowadays tend the Sacred Lamp ! ”
Now we don't mind them stating that Woolloomooloo is
situated in Light-square or vice-versa ; we could for-
give them taking Pattie away (she isn’t going), but when
they rob us of the credit of breeding and training her,
why, damme !
“ The second and third acts of your play are much too
long, and the fourth must be reduced by quite 50 per
cent.,” said the manager to the author. “It can’t be
done,” replied the latter, “ without ruining the whole
structure. And why should it?” “ Why,” answered the
manager, “we must be through at the latest by a
quarter past 11.” “ Then,” said the author, “why have
waits of a quarter of an hour between the acts?” “Well,
in the first place, my refreshment-bars are let on condi-
tion that there shall be intervals of a quarter of an hour
between the acts ; secondly, Mrs. , my leading lady,
must have a fresh dress in each act—this is stipulated in
her contract--and she cannot get into any' one of them
under a quarter of an hour.”
Signor Del Puente, of the Grand Opera House (N. \.)
like" Baritone Ryley, of Melbourne, refuses to receive
flowers while singing. When he was being applauded for
his rendering of a passage in “ Rigoletto,” up the aisle
rushed two ushers with huge bouquets, which, when they
reached the stage, they held aloft expecting the singer to
destroy the scene by coming to the footlights for the
flowers. Del Puente ignored them, and when the situation
became simply embarrassing for the ushers, they laid
dow n the flowers and walked sheepishly down the aisle. A
few minutes later, when the baritone was again applauded,
the ushers again ran up the aisle, with more bouquets, and
held them up for his acceptance. Again he ignored them.
At the end of the act, he, of course, received all the
bouquets.
Amelia Glover, who is an American dancer of some
repute, w r e believe, says that “to attain success in skirt-
dancing, the dancer must not have the slightest suspicion
of embonpoint. She must, above all things, possess not
only the quality of being able to kick artistically', but
must also use a smile, a bit of gesticulation, an undefin-
able something such as French danseuses use in their
art.”
“ The Black Rover” has fizzled out in London.
The Cyclorama Co. of Australia has purchased ‘‘The
Siege of Paris,” in ’Frisco.
A character named Harris, who kept the Dublin Royal,
was always grumbling. Asked how business was, he in-
variably replied : “I’m after losin’ money iv’ry noight.
When it was pointed out that with such losses during 25
years’ tenancy he would be mad’to renew the lease,, he ex-
plained ; “Sure an’l do be losin’money all the toime.
There’s nivur a night but what some sates is empty, and
whin the house is full, then I’m after losin’ the money
turned away.”
Routledge has recently published the “Songs of a
Savoyard,” a self-illustrated selection from Gilbert’s
operas and dedicated to Composer Sullivan.
Succi has broken all previous records by fasting 45 day s
in New York. He’ll get w iped out presently by the exhi-
bition of some cataleptic who goes without food sempi-
ternally'.
Sculptor Clesingef, a noisy Bohemian who had once been
a cuirassier, was alway s at war with Georges Sand, his
mother-in-law. On oiie occasion she sent him a message
to the effect that “ If you annoy me any more I’ll sketch
you in one of my books and everyone will know you.
“Tell mv mother-in-law,” said the undaunted husband,
“thatif'she does I’ll make a nude likeness of her in
marble and every man will recognise her.”
Says Houssaye: “Two kinds of theatrical spectacle
will always exist—that which appeals to the intellect, that
which appeals to the eyes. Y r ou may smash the aristocracy
that boasts its coats of arms, you’ll never destroy the
aristocracy of nature. The descendant of a Montmorency
may go 'to the spectacle that pleases the eye ; the
divinely-gifted son of a rag-picker will go to the spectacle
that appeals to the intellect.” Which is another and
roundabout way of saying that your soundest critics are
found in the gallery.
Albani, now singing in “ Lohengrin ” at Covent Ga,rden,
comes perchance to Australia. She is the wife of
Entrepreneur Ernest Gye, and was born at Albany,
Canada, whence her stage name.
A contingent from Bland Holt’s Company, led by
Blanche Lewis and her hubby, Albert Norman, are play-
ing between Melbourne and Sydney.
Amy Sherwin is alternating in the British provinces
with Marie Roze of the Carl Rosa Opera Co.
A lovely ladv and her beauteous beau, not unknown in
theatrical circles, skipped lately from a Sydney furnished
house, rented by the week, leaving a score standing for
rent, likewise gas and rates.
Alfred Dampier, in an “ad.,” draws attention to the
fact that “ East Lynne ” is a drama particularly suitable
for representation at Christmas, “ the season of all others
when the human heart is peculiarly susceptible to the
finer feelings,” and then points out that “ The incidents
depicted in ‘ East Lynne ’ are almost identical with those
of a remarkable divorce-case which has lately occupied
the attention and aroused the sympathies of the English-
speaking race throughout the world and the result of
which bids fair to revolutionise the politics of the mother
country.” Lovely, Alfred I
London papers complain that Prof. Kennedy’s mesmeric
subiects tall from their chairs with too much circumspec-
tion and come up too often to feast on kerosene, soap and
candles. In fact, they make a business of it.
Nellie" Leamar, a lively London music-hall song-and-
dance artiste, has married the Hon. Duncomb, brother of
the Duchess of Leinster. Another pick-me-up to stagnant
blue-blood.
Fred Millis still gets gushing notices in the London
papers.
Concerning a graphic sketch of his early struggles,
written as if by an intimate, that appeared in a Melbourne
paper some time ago, Irving says: “ I don’t know who
can be the writer of this gossip, but he strings together
such a collection of fables concerning me that 1 have read
it as if it were part of the ‘ Arabian Nights.
“ Carados ” says of Miss Fortescue, who, from a comic
opera artiste, merged per medium of a breach-of-promise
case into a “society actress, that her Juliet (Grand
Theatre) is the “ Ju." that Shakespeare drew.
Dion Boucicault used to say that all those who arrive at
the door that, leads to success will find it labelled “ Push!’
Dion was also author of the phrase that “ Shakespeare
spells ruin, and Bvron bankruptcy,” which appeared in a
Times letter written by Boucicault, but signed by Drury
Lane Chatterton, at whose house “Formosa” was then
running.
Emily Fitzroy is in luck. Owing to the illness of Mrs.
Bernard Beere she has got a chance to play Lady Gay
Spanker in “London Assurance” at the London Criterion.


* See Thr BcljTjKtin. “The of Private
'french. ’’
FOREIGN STAMPS
We are prepared to pay high prices for old collections
of postage-stamps (state of book immaterial), or for any
old Australian stamps taken off letters dated ISSO to 1870. Look up your old letters, they may be worth pounds.
Stamps can be sent by post and will be paid for by return mail. One hundred (100) different Foreign Stamps,
post free 2s. Bd.; 50 different Australasian stamps (for sending to friends abroad), post free, ss. 2d. ; Stamp
Albums, with illustrated catalogues, post free, Cs. lOd. and 9s. lOd. Stamp price-list gratis. The Philatelic
Monthly, an illustrated Journal for stamp collectors, post free.. 2s. per year; single copies, post free, 3d. ;
correspondence invited.
n. J\.. VIINrXJIIVr CO., iorclgii Slump Importers,
'.) ami 11 Victoria Arcade, Klizabkth Street, SYDNEY, and at HAMBURG.
DEPOSITORS. KOKROWERS.
INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT
LAND & BUILDING Co-, Ltd.,
AND
DEPOSIT IB.A. ZEsTIKI.
' Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Offices: 96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
WM. M'COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P.; THOS. TATE, Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS.
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
Participating
in
Bonus.
7J per cent.
7 per cent.
6 per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W, ,1. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Tales of “The System.”
No. XXIV.—On Dead’s Man’s Isle.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Beautiful among the beautiful, the Isle
des Morts —in Port Arthur vernacular, Dead-
Man’s Isle—slept in the languorous moonlight.
Slept—to awake at an untimely hour. Con-
trary to the usual custom, an interment was to
take place after nightfall. The military authorities
had determined that the body of Private Trench,
into which they, at six o’clock, had poured a
llouble volley of bullets, * should be buried at
midnight instead of on the next day.
And thus it happened that shortly before twelve
o’ the night the whale-boat was propelled by six
pairs of arms across the lake-like channel which
played the part of Styx to the Settlement. It was
not the ordinary crew that dipped the lambent
blades in the silvery water. Some of Private
Trench’s comrades had begged permission to carry
him to his island cell —the last he would occupy
on this earth—and consent had been given.
“ We’ve of’n ’ad ter sling poor Trench ter th’
g’ard-room, sir,” were the words in which their
spokesman appealed toCaptain Jourdain. “ Yer’av
no objeckshun, sir, ter our luggin’ ’im ’cross ter
Dead ’Un’s?”
The honest fellows, however, would, one and
all, have sacrificed a month’s pay rather than
tender their kindly services to their dead comrade
could they but have foreseen the sequel.
For with them went Surgeon Slipshott, of the
Civil Establishment, and three ladies —and the
resulting episode was a tradition in the Regiment
for a generation.
* * *
There had been a terrible scene on the
return of Mr. E. Trench Leppell, M.P., to
Government Cottage from Gibbet Square, where
he had witnessed the execution of Private Trench.
And the reader who has fol-
lowed our narrative will be a 4
no loss to understand the cause.
Private Trench, otherwise
Ernest Trench Leppell, was
Mr. Leppell’s nephew. Mr.
Leppell, M.P., on his travels
through the British colonies,
was accompanied by his two
daughters, and Mr. Leppell’s
elder daughter and nephew had
once been affianced. Since the
breaking of the engagement—
perhaps largely because of that
circumstance the latter had
wallowed in the styes of the
Service. So far, he repeated
the experience of the Prodigal
Son, but the later chapters of
the Parable were not paralleled
in his case. Mr. Leppell, M.P.,
being a Nineteenth - century
Christian, did not provide the
fatted calf. He showed his
nephew the door. And straight
from his uncle’s door, Trench,
as he henceforth called himself,
went to the enlistment depdt,
and to the devil. Her Britannic
Majesty’s Service received many
more pronrsing recruits. The
other personage was undoubtedly
satisfied with his bargain.
Trench’s cousin Ida caused the
scene at the Commandant’s. As
befitted the powerful and dis-
tinguished station of Mr. Lep-
pell, the honorable member and
his daughters were invited, on
their visit to Port Arthur, to
Government Cottage. -A nd Mrs.
Boote and the Misses Leppell
were seated on the verandah
when the staggering, stertorous-
breathing, pallid-faced Member
of Parliament was escorted into
the garden by Captain Boot*
and Surgeon Slipshott.
At the approach of the three
gentlemen, the ladies, alarmed,
rose, and the younger ones passed
quickly to meet their father.
“Father,” they cried together,
“are you ill?”
“ Go back, please, ladies,” Slipshott interposed.
“He is ill—but leave him to me. He wants
quiet! ”
The younger Miss Leppell, a girl of seventeen,
with the affectionateness and indiscretion of her
age clung to her father as though her embrace
could have freed him from the paralysis which
seemed to have attacked him. Her sister, equally
distressed but more self-controlled, hurried away
to prepare her father’s room. Then one of the
distraught exclamations of his second child
apparently penetrated to the stupefied conscious-
ness of the stricken man, and awoke an idiotic
response.
“What is it? I don’t know; I don’t know!
Poor Erny’s shot; Erny’s shot, O God ! Erny’s shot,
shot, shot ” Mechanically he went on repeat-
ing the words. To the hysterical girl they carried
no significance, but he was mumbling them when
they placed him on a bed, and Miss Leppell
caught the syllable.
“ What does he say ? What is he saying about
Erny ? ” She looked at the doctor. He would
not meet her glance, and busied himself by
attending to his patient. Commandant Boote
also affected not to hear.
“Is there anything I can do, Slipshott? ’ the
latter asked.
Slipshott bade him brusquely to take Miss
Leppell away. That was no place for a lady. But
the Commandant did not hear distinctly, for
Leppell just then started up, and reiterated his
parrot-shriek. “ Only Erny shot, Erny shot!”
“ Doctor, doctor, tell me what he means ! He
has had some shock, to bring up to his mind my—
my cousin’s name. I had a cousin, Ernest.”
No glimpse of the fearful truth had yet dawned
upon her. Although she had heard from Mrs.
Boote that a soldier was to be shot that evening,
she had done nothing more than give a passing
thought to the incident. “Poor man!” she had
said, and then had proceeded to discuss with her
hostess the difficulty of procuring suitable dress
materials for the hot season so far from “home.”
“Poor Ernv’s shot, Erny’s shot ! ”
“ Doctor, Mr. Boote,” she pleaded, “what does
he mean?”
“Will you take her away, Boote?” Slipshott
exclaimed. “ I shall not be responsible for what
happens if you don’t.”
Her father’s distraction, his repetition of the
one phrase, the doctor’s obvious desire that she
should withdraw from the room, now combined to
force upon her a numbing horror, and, against her
will, she linked her father’s senseless utterance
with what Mrs. Boote had told her of the military
execution.
“ Doctor,.who was it that was —shot to-day ? I
insist upon knowing.”
“Erny—Erny shot!” shrieked the man on the
bed, writhing out of the sergeant’s hands and
thrusting himself forward, as though he was
determined no one should answer the question but
himself. For the moment, all three believed that
he had consciously replied, and while under that
impression, Slipshott saying, “ Captain Boote,
take my place here ; Miss Leppell come with me,”
led the way into the adjacent room.
“Miss Leppell,” he said, as the young lady
followed him, and he placed a chair for her, “I
have bad news for you. On your calmness now
your father’s life may depend. Promise me you
will be calm?” A sympathetic but tactless
fellow, Slipshott.
“ I will—try !” answered the girl.
“ Then—the man the soldiers shot this evening
—was your ”
“My cousin? O, merciful Heaven, it can’t
have been! He died years ago.” She started
from her seat; and clenching her hands, beat her
bosom with them.
“It was your cousin. Your father recognised
him,” said the doctor.
“But there must be, oh, there must be some
mistake —father’s been deceived by a likeness.
Erny died, surely died ”
“ To-night. I knew he was your cousin—before
the execution.”
She sank back into her seat. There was a
momentary stillness in the room, like the lull on
the sea-margin between the surging of two waves.
“ Yet, you allowed my father, his uncle, to see
him ! Cruel, cruel to both !” She moved to and
fro in the room, blindly, not knowing she moved,
and moaning as she went.
“ I did my best to prevent any recognition. I
did not know your father would be present till
too late to stop him.”
Her mood changed. Hitherto, she was dry-
eyed —too shocked to weep, for her concern had
been chiefly for her father. Now, her former
iryte*
The old lady is awakened just as a burglar leaves her bedroom through the
window. She reports the case to the police. A lot of bow-legged men are
arrested. She fails to pick out the real man. The real man was knock-kneed.
The man who did it.
affection revived, and with it a poignant despair*
as she realised that it was not alone her uncle’s
nephew and her cousin, who had been shot, but
her own lover. And, with the rising of this fresh
emotion, the tears came quickly to her eyes.
Between the convulsions of her sobs, she upbraided
Slipshott. ,
“You knew he was what he was! . . .
And that my father could have saved him with a
word. . . . And still you let him die ! ’
“ I could not interfere. Nor could your father
have saved him. No power except the Queen’s
could have rescued him once the sentence was
a pproved at headquarters.”
Then she insisted on knowing all that Slipshott
kne w. As delicately as possible he communicated
to her the substance of what he had learnt from
p r i va t e Trench as to his relationship to Mr. Lep-
d and herself. Trench, you will remember, had
opened hi s mind to the doctor, a few hours before
[,is platooning. But Slipshott did not tell the
girl anything of the circumstance which had pre-
oeded the execution—of Trench’s attack on his
UP cle, or of the awful Untile.
« He died—like a man ? ” she asked, at last.
<< jj e died jj ke a man i» he was replying as a
gusto! the evening breeze brought to them through
the open door-way and windows the concluding
bars of the “ British Grenadiers.”
uQ b » — sbe p i ace d her fingers on her ears, and
bent her head on her lap in the abandon of pain,
f or woman in great suffering forgets to posture —
“Dh, that on such a day they can play such
tunes!”
But she did not know that Private Trench’s body
ha d not settled into rigidity before the drums and
the fifes which had ushered him to his execution
w j th tbe “Dead March” had left him with a
dance-tune.
‘“How is it that they can play such tunes?
rp Q j suc h lively times !” Mechanically she
repeate d the words, much as her father was mum-
b j- over j n tbe next room the last syllables his
intelligence had framed. Then she, too, glided off
j nto obliviousness, on seeing which Slipshott
thanked God. He could manage a fainting-fit, or
an attack G f delirium, but his limited science was
at fault —what man’s is not ? —when the curious
involutions of a woman’s heart are in question.
# * *
The girl came to herself an hour later.
Her father, by the aid of drugs, was now in silent
unconsciousness. The doctor had sent for his
wife —the youngest girl was helpless in the sick
rooms—to assist Mrs. Boote, and when Miss Lep-
pell opened her eyes it was upon Mrs. Slipshott, a
stranger, that they fell. She turned her head
away.
“You are better, dear?” in soft, cooing tones,
asked the tender nurse. “I am the doctor s wife,
Mrs. Slipshott, you know, and dear’’-she bent
down and took the girl’s head to her breast—
“ dear, I will tell you all you want to know. A
very loving and tactful woman, Mrs. Slipshott,
but something, we suspect, of a fibber. lor she
excelled in dispensing to invalid minds and souls
those half-truths which, in spite of the moralists,
are so comforting to the stricken.
“Father?” the girl asked feebly.
“ Sleeping soundly, dear —and will be almost
well in the morning.” A reckless assertion, Mrs.
Slipshott, but a wise one, for it relieved the suffer-
ing girl from anxiety.
“ And—and the other ? ”
Now, a woman of less tact would have
answered the question as though it related to the
sufferer’s sister. Mrs. Slipshott, however, having
had a talk with the doctor, went to the root
of the matter. She whispered: “He looks very
happy —my husband saw him. And I will take
you to-morrow to —where he —rests if you are
well enough.”
“Oh ! that I could see him ! I loved him so,
I loved him so ! ” was the girl’s plaint. “ I loved
him so—l would have married him in spite of all,
but for father! ” Again it seemed as if the
hysteria would master her.-
“Oh ! that I could see him ! I’d give worlds to
see him ! And my father saw him shot! Oh!
terrible, terrible ! ”
“ Dear, will you be strong and patient, and try
and control yourself,” said Mrs. Slipshott, “If I
promise that you shaU see him to-morrow ? ”
All the strength she could command Miss
Leppell put into her eager, half-delirous assent.
“I’ll be so good and patient if you promise
that! ”
“I promise it,” replied the doctor’s wife, only
concerned to get the sick girl to sleep again.
“ You shall see him once again if you pass a good
night. Now try and sleep, dear.”
And the girl nestled into the pillows and
soon after, seemed to sleep.
* * *
A few minutes later the doctor came in.
He told his wife that the burial would take place
that night. “ Jourdain,” he said, “thinks it best
so, and has obtained Boote’s. consent. It’ll save
any scene in the morning, if either Leppell or the
girl ask about the body. ”
“I have promised her,” whispered Mrs. Slip-
shott, “ that she shall see him. I did so to quieten
her poor mind—l did not know how to manage it
else. She will, perhaps, not remember when the
morning comes and wdien she’s told he’s buried.”
Neither knew that the girl had heard their con-
versation.
The night was a still one. The silence broken
only by the clank of a distant chain, the foot of a
sentry or the whistles of warders exchanging
signals. Mrs. Slipshott, her patient slumbering,
as she thought, passed to the verandah to enjoy
the peace of the hour and beauty of the scene, and
to dream over the strange sequence of events which
had connected the English visitor with the tragedy
on Gibbet-square.
Scarcely had she left the room before the girl
arose, and began to dress herself noiselessly. Her
weakness was temporarily conquered by the force
of unreasoned will, and her morbid desire to be-
hold the features of her dead lover found an ally
in the cunning which so frequently seizes upon
persons who have been suddenly exposed to nervous
shocks.
Dressed, she went out of the room by another
door from that by which Mrs. Slipshott had gone
to the verandah—out into the garden - out into
the lane, led by the saddest of chances, or drawn
by the gossamer-threads of Fate —to Gibbet-
square.
When the military had retired that even-
ing from the fatal soil to a merry quickstep they
had left behind them the corpse of Private Trench,
a corporal’s guard, and Private Trench’s coffin.
Into the third the second put the first. The
guard did not screw it down. Someone had
blundered; someone had forgotten the screw-
driver. To open the shell the Corporal had been
compelled to prize up the lid with a bayonet, it
having been fastened with a couple of screws.
That having been accomplished with his men’s aid,
he dropped Trench’s body therein. Then posting
one of the men as sentinel, ten paces away, marched
towards the barracks. His orders were that the
body was to be left on the Square pending the
arrival of the fatigue party to carry it to the pier,
whence it would be transferred to Dead-Man’s
Isle.
In honour of the distinguished M.P. the coun-
tersign for the night was “Leppell.”
And when, some hours subsequently, the sentry
—cursing inwardly all the Deities, evil and good,
of whom his limited theology had knowledge,
because they had permitted his selection for this
eerie duty—challenged with tremulous lips a
white figure which came suddenly from under the
shadow of the Government Cottage wall, and the
figure answered—‘ ‘ Leppell!” he thought in letting
it pass he was well within the countless corners of
the Mutiny Apt, the Articles of War, the Regu-
lations for Convict Guards, and the other
literature which commanded him —him, a poor
devil who couldn’t read ! —to well and truly serve
Her Majesty the Queen, and all the rest of it.
Plow could he know, he said next day, when he
was being tied up to the halberds to receive 20
lashes, how could he know the girl was mechanic-
ally telling him her name, and not uttering the
countersign ? Of course he couldn’t know, but he
was striped all the same.
Well, the figure passed the sentry, and the
sentry, concluding, as many a more intelligent
man would have done in his place, that a visitant
to the ghastly spot could have but one object, the
viewing of the. dead, murmured, “Over there,
ma’am ; he’s over there.”
And the figure, which consciously knew no-
thing of what it was doing, which was simply
obeying the impulse of a dominant morbidity of
idea, went as he directed it to the oblong box that
was bathed in the moonlight.
The great agony of the cry, “My Ernest! Oh !
my Erny! ” which ascended to the still, star-
decked heavens, reached the piazza of Govern-
ment Cottage. It roused Mrs. Slipshott from her
dreaming;' it startled Boote, Jourdain, and
Slipshott, sitting over their wine in the Com-
mandant’s dining-room; it terrified the good
fellows of the fatigue party on their way to screw
down and remove the coffin. The doctor’s wife,
noticing then for the first time p the
girl’s absence, called to her husband. He
and Boote had recognised the voice of
of Miss Leppell and instinctively understood,
when Mrs. Slipshott told them the girl had disap-
peared, whence the cry had proceeded.
“She’s got to his coffin!” exclaimed the sur-
geon, as they hurried to the spot. “ God ! She’ll
go mad after this. Wife, this is too bad of you !”
# # #
They found her nursing Trench’s head
on her lap. She had sate down on the ground,
had partially withdrawn the body, and was bend-
ing over it and crooning to it with sweet words
and tender phrases. The sentry, struck with
horror at her shriek, dared not approach this
weird guest of the dead. He stood, shaking, on
his musket’s support.
“Dearest, my dearest!” they heard her say,
just as they came up. “You would not come to
me, and so I have come to you ! Don’t think me
—foolish, Erny—you wouldn’t come, and I
craved to see you so. ” She pressed her lips to
his as though she were stopping his remon-
strances. “Ah, love—all this way to find you.
And they told me you were dead ! And I
believed them, Erny— ”
Mrs. Slipshott tried to release her grasp of the
dead man. The officers, at the same instant,
quietly pulled the body away.
“Do not go away!” She clasped the corpse
tighter, “Dearest, don’t go! You’re vexed,
Erny, because I believed you dead. I should not,
should I ?”
And then, with a heart-rending sob she ceased.
With difficulty they raised her to her feet, and
released the dead man from her embrace. Mrs.
Slipshott wound her arms round her and sought to
bend the girl’s head to her own bosom so that she
should not see the officers force the corpse back
into the shell. She yielded to the gentle lady’s
pressure, but her eyes remained fixed, as though
she would reanimate her love by the intensity
of their gaze.
Mrs. Slipshott sought to lead her gently away.
This, however, she refused, saying with an imperial
determination :
“ Where he goes I go—till the very last. We
have been parted too long.”
* * *
Captain Boote, the Civil, and Captain
Jourdain, the military Commandant, in whispered
consultation with Slipshott, were for removing the
girl by force to her apartments. Slipshott, how-
ever, insisted upon her accompanying the corpse
to Dead-Man’s Isle.
“ It’s a risk, but it’s the lesser of two. Remove
her forcibly, and she’ll become a raving lunatic on
the spot. Let her go, and there’s a chance of
saving her reason.”
And so a man of the fatigue party, which had
now arrived, having been despatched to the Cot-
tage for the younger Miss Leppell, and for wraps
for her sister and Mrs. Slipshott, the singular
funeral procession was constituted.
“ You will carry the corpse to the pier-end,”
was Captain Jourdain’s instruction to the Sergeant.
“ The men who have volunteered will there take
charge. Then return to barracks and report.”
“Won’t you come with us ?” asked the doctor of
the Captains. “ Three ladies —one mad, one
hysterical, ’ll be too much for me. ”


WORMS IN CHILDREN
Effectually Cured by
_ _ WATSON’S GINGER-
BREAD WORM NUTS, a perfectly safe and certain remedy,
jn an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepers, and
Jr the Proprietor, John Watbon, Chemist, 881 Georg© Street,
-gyaney. In Boxes. Is.; by Fast, Is. 2d,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To cure skin diseases. = —Sulpholine Lotion
drives away all eruptions, pimples, blotches, red-
ness, eczema, acne, disfigurements, roughness and
scurf, leaving a clear, spotless skm. bold every-
where.
Try Colemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W, J. Douglas,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The reliable buggies and waggons at 22 and 24
Clarence-street (corner of Margaret-street).
WORTH IT’S WEIGHT IN COLD!
ţ
C oolingand Strengh
thening EVE EO-
TIOIVi for all disea
scs of tlie Eyes, more
l ai tlculai ly Sandy Blight.lnflammatiouof the Eyes and
Eyelids, Weakness of
not only immediate relief
cases of Sandy Blight,
manent cure in a few
ť
I Sight,&c.lt gives
1 in the very worst
. but effects a per.
1 days.
Price, is 6d per Bottles
PREPARED ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
Chemist. 581 G torse Street, Sydney.
And Sold by All Bespectable storekeepers-
■■l* •
hu hed-
n tlv the crew beached the boat in the
Ge fl. with voices hushed and feet that tried
fcm ycove, wit pebb ies, they went about
S e “ staple preparations for the passage of the
de rrkl two convict grave-diggers had brought the
• \n the shelving sand. And, stern and sombre
b u er Jhtheir companionship with the souls at
tho'Y ma( j e them—neither had set foot on the
rest had made tne & fow hundre d yards dis-
fmseverafvears-they were moved to won-
tWr£r exclamations at the presence of the ladies
d - Thmi lecldies ? —Be they mo’rners? queried
„ n from a soldier, in low tones.
° °’Ves™ one o’ them’s Private Trench’s sweet-
Jist kern down by chance, as twere, to the
oft Moment in time to see’m die.
b - I didn’t see him die,” said Miss Leppell,
i. 7 . <4 T wfis too late. 5 ,
S, Bv'which all knew she had heard the mens
vL and Slipshott shuddered at the task before
m°n ’ Here was an intelligence dethroned, and
h . ’ n intelligence with some of its faculties
y [' fc nrmallV keen. What should he do ? He had
r>ad of such cases in his test-books, but his
own experience had not furnished him with a
pa Shetnswered the question herself-Nothing !
As the bearers stepped off she fonowed them.
She would not allow either Mrs Slip, hott or her
Tumr to support her, and when the doctor
idered his arm, she acknowledged the courtesy
with aquiet “Thank you; No!”
the grave-side, when the bearers hal'ed, she
caused for a moment only-to say, “While you
nike ready I will learn about the spot and
Mien passing from one neighbouring grave to
another traced the inscriptions on their stones by
the moonlight, and seemingly studied the position
t ot her but unmarked mounds. Coming back to
the group, she bade them remember the position
of Trench’s resting-place. ,_ , „ , ,
11 One two, three, four, five, is it? from Robert
y ol , n <r, ’ See, Doctor, ‘ Robert Young—acci-
dentally drowned—soldier of the 51st erected by
sorrowing comrades ’ —you can’t forget that poor
. man’s grave. Look at the verse
His melancholy fate doth plainly prove
The frail uncertainty of human life.
Oh ! may his soul obtain that bless’d abode
Which knows no human misery or strife.
“There,” she went on, “five from Young’s
grave -they gave him poor poetry, but good sen-
timent, and they won’t give Erny anything. But
I’ll S end oit a stone— they won’t object, will they,
doctor?—and then, my men, you’ll remember to
erect it over the fifth grave from Young’s. And
now are you ready ?” , ,
“Doctor,” she began again, after a minute-long
interval, “Doctor, there’s no clergyman here.
You must act as minister—as priest. All doctors
were priests once, weren’t they ?
“ You won’t, doctor ? You’re disobliging. I
will say what L remember myself, then—when I
heard Erny was dead, I read the Burial Service
over so often that I remember much of it.”
And the poor stricken lady, distraught for
love’s sake like Ophelia, began to repeat the noble
words whieh link the two infinities that of life
to that of death. .
To the end of the first Psalm she continued,
then passed from the “Amen!” of the Psalm to
the verses customarily said “ when the corpse is
made ready. ” ‘‘ Man that is born of a woman ”
Here the mechanism of her memory failed her.
The doctor noiselessly drew nearer, for he thought
the crisis had come.
“Finish ! ” she said to him. But, for the life of
him, he could not recall a word of the sublime
ritual.
The convict sextons lowered the coffin into the
shallow grave. And it was a sexton, the sterner
of the two, who ended the Office.
“ For as much, as it hath pleased Almighty God of
His great mercy to take unto Himself the soul of our
dear brother here departed, we therefore commit his
body to the ground; earth to earth, ashes to ashes,
dust to dust ——”
She stooped, and gathering a handful of the
mould, scattered it on the lid. Ah ! If she had
bedewed it with a tear also.
“ Whereby He is able to subdue all things to Him-
self.”
“That is not all? ” she said to the sexton, as he
stopped.
The man, whose unsuspected and unofficial
function it was to say a portion of the Burial
Service over dead interred in the absence of a
clergyman, resumed his recitation. His recollec-
tion of the ritual was good; for, inasmuch as the
System didn’t make it obligatory upon the chap-
lains to attend convict burials, and the Protestant
ministers frequently availed themselves of the
option to stay away, this convict sexton, moved
by a genuine regret that any poor fellow-
sinner should be deprived of the last poor tribute
to his humanity, had memorised the rite. The
System caused almost as many unofficial kind-
nesses as it occasioned official cruelties. That is
one of its few virtues.
The sexton resumed—to be met at the Thanks-
giving with the painfullest of interruptions.
“ . . . We give Thee hearty thanks for that
it hath pleased Thee to deliver this our brother out of
the miseries of this sinful world ”
“I will not thank Him,” she cried, “I will
not! ” She raised her head defiantly to the
Heavens.
The tears came now. They came in an im-
petuous torrent that swept away the last bulwark
of reason, and not as gentle and benignant
showers to quench the fires of her sorrow.
“ No, I will not, for He is cruel! To think my
Erny should be buried with the prayers of a
convict! ”
* *■ *
The moon was still as brilliant, and the
waters as placid, when the party returned to the
pieftas when they had set out.
And there the resemblance ended. The quiet
A the night was broken. Up to the unmoved and
smiling heavens the girl sent repeated accusing
cries, and sought to arraign their justice further
by throwing herself into the channel. The doctor
was obliged to call to his aid a couple of the
soldiers, otherwise, the attempt on her life foiled,
she would have upset the b®at in her maniacal
stragglings. She never recovered her reason.
Nor, though her father survived to return
“home’’and to publish in an English magazine
an account of his colonial tour, do we think he
eyer recovered his. For he pronounced the
System “ as worthy of great admiration.”
PRICE WARUNG.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Where’s Tom Garrett ? Likewise, where’s
A. G. Taylor.
There has been a very bad settling over
West Sydney election.
Mr. C. A. Goodchap did not vote in any
of the divisions in the N.S.W. Assembly on the
Whitton pension proposal.
Out of 30 electorates in W.A., at the
recent elections for that colony, 18 constituencies
returned members unopposed.
Shiels is the coming man in the Victorian
Assembly, and head and shoulders, over all
Munro’s crowd. He may be Premier before
Deakin.
In England, over 20 in every thousand
are paupers ; in the United States only one and
one third in the thousand are dependent on
eleemosynary aid.
The S.A. Parliament some time ago
decided by resolution that no member of Parlia-
ment should occupy any office of profit under the
Crown, and no cx-member unless he has been out
Young Bellamy, of the V.M.C.A. (an enthusiastic bee-keeper), got into trouble the
other day with a new hive, and now he is pointed out as “The Iron Man "—and if there
is anything in this world he hates it’s prizefighting.
of the Legislature for six months. This principle
is worthy of general adoption as an antidote to
the pig-vote.
Dr. Pearson : “ Australia is the one power
which could sustain Great Britain in India were
India attacked !” The “ God of Battles ’is dead,
then Professor? G.O.D. —meaning Ghost ot
Dailey !
The Australian Star says that Crick
“ should not pose as a special friend of the work-
ing classes, for that dodge is nearly played out in
this country.” True, by Heavens! The STAR
has played it right down to the water-level.
John Potts, erstwhile anti-Chinese lec-
turer, bore up for a seat in Queensland Parliament,
and, failing that, accepted a Government billet at
the hands of John Macrossan. This is probably
the last we shall ever hear of Potts’ democracy.
A project is on foot in Sydney to take up
a tract of land in Western Australia by a com-
monwealth who shall conduct their social and
commercial operations after the fashion of some ot
the communally-conducted colonies in the United
States.
Melbourne Age, in the light of late
coalition and other political events, prophesied
that “the time is not very distant when the
House itself will assume the position of Premier
and hold every Minister directly responsible to it.
Swiss cheese!
Queensland Minister for Railways, Un-
mack says he is willing to absolve any railway
employe from Sunday work provided he objects on
conscientious grounds. On the other hand, he
will assist to stifle conscience by paying tune and
a-half to those who don’t object.
Western Australia is making a good start
as a self-governing colony. The pensions to the
defunct Executive are as follows ; 1 raser, Colonial
Secretary, £700; Blocker Warton, Attorney-
General, £333 6s. Bd. ; Lefroy, Treasurer, £550;
John Forrest, Surveyor-General, £5OO . .
Purves is claimed as a convert to Imperial-
ism owing to his speech at the last Natives Con-
ference. It is an open secret among the inner
circle of delegates to that Conference that Purves
spoke with the deliberate intention of fooling both
parties. Prom comments in the Age and Argus
next day it was quite apparent that he succeeded.
T’other day Premier Munro gushed at an
Employers’ Union spread at Geelong, congratu-
lating the employers on their victory over their
late troubles, and immediately afterwards he
orated at the opening of the Geelong Trades Hall
and puffed himself out as a horny-handed working
man “ wi’ indentures.” Munro may be a Hielan -
man, and he may also be a teetotaller, but he can t
dance this sort of sword-dance with naked feet for
long without getting hurt.
Dear Bulletin, —For the present the
Melbourne Bench can dispense with its super-
fluous criticisms on the desirability of fostering
the wine-trade. Half a gallon per head is the
amount now consumed in Australasia, and half a
gallon per head is just the amount grown. Until
the local demand increases it is obviously un-
necessary to create another export industry which
adds to our present list of sources of revenue
dependent on foreigners who for political purposes
might at any time starve us out. — JUNOR.
“London, December 17. —It is reported
that Lord Salisbury has acceded to the claim of
Canada to be allowed to nominate a Judge on the
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council from
the ranks of Canadian jurists in succession to the
late Sir Barnes Peacock.” This is a most signi-
ficant message. Presently you will, The Bulletin
predicts, see a move made by the Australian
Imperial-Pederationist judges to be represented
on the Privy Council—just as if Australia did not
want a local Federal final Court of Appeal.
Problem : Supposing a N.S.W. alleged
statesman tells the truth on an average 23 times
out of 800, and in two per cent, of these cases he
tells the truth by design, while in the other 98 per
cent, he does it lay accident, what credence should
be attached to him when he gives 10 evasive
answers in reply to 11 questions and solves the odd
one by calling the other man a liar and a monkey?
As The Bulletin does not profess to be an agri-
cultural paper, or to tackle chess conundrums, it
respectfully hands this difficulty down to the
universities and to posterity.
There are still Americans idiotic enough
to see something in Protection, it appears. In a
recent speech Congressman Atkinson, of West
Virginia, said : 4 * If all the ports of entry on both
oceans were to-day blockaded so that no vessel
could enter them bearing the products of other
countries, and war should be declared against us,
wo could, with our present facilities, produce
every munition of war and every article that we
might need for our sustenance for a thousand
years.” England can’t so sustain herself for a thou-
sand hours, Australia for a thousand minutes.
Someone threw a bag of quicklime (or
flour) into Parnell’s eyes, and Irishmen applauded
the action—nay, more, another lot of Irishmen
attacked Michael Davitt with sticks, but a s hort
month ago and the man who would have dared to
do either of these evil deeds, in Dublin or Kil-
kenny, would have found his career short and
lively. Listen, Bellamy, Gronlund, and Henry
George—will it not take more than a century to
bring the people to such a state of intelligence
that they can appreciate the sacrifices of Socialism ?
Are we better trained or more intelligent now
than when they banished Aristides or chose
Barabbas ?
Shiels, the new Victorian Minister of
Railways, has gone through the farce of an-
nouncing that Commissioner Speight, whose pre-
sent salary is £4OOO, with the promise of another
£lOOO rise, can only be re-engaged at his original
pr ce of £3OOO a year. In due course Speight will
refuse re-engagement on those terms, pointing out
that Gillies had “ with difficulty ” persuaded him
to continue his “valuable” services on the extra
terras, after which Shiels will regret his inability
to do as he would like to do, and the £5OOO job
will be ratified by a half-filled House. It is all as
clear at noonday, Shiels enters his protest as a
matter of form, the objection is overruled, and
Speight gets the stakes as .fixed by Gillies. Let
us all put our tongues into our cheeks and say
“ Amen ! ”
Imperial Federation, a subsidised,
spoon-fed, British print, says that Purves, Q.C.,
and the A.N. A. are developing Imperialistic
views. Says our Sladcn :
Just over the way
In the Cabbage Plot,
The A.N.A.
Has a lot to say—
An awful lot,
In a spasmodic way,
Most of it rot,
Less of it not.
But the A.N.A.
Means J.L.P.,
And from day to day
’Tis a mystery
To you and me
As to what he’ll say
As J. L. P.,
Or P., Q.C.
(His alter E .)
ForP., Q.C.,
Is a loyal child,
But J. L. P.
Is a little free
And a trifle “ spilt d,”
So, you strangely see,
That he’s one day mild
And the next quite w ml.
And the A.N.A.
And J. L. P,
Go tossing away
Now Yea ! now Nay 1
Like a squared M.P. —
Now shouting Hooray !
For Tummy, P.,
Now for Liberty—
And the Melbourne press
Is puzzled quite
And cannot guess
To curse or bless
The orator’s flight.
Or whether the mess
The repoiters w rite
Is the same old “ tight.”
Now, the A.NA.
Might do some good
In its little way
If it knew what to say.
And only would
If it marked a way
Straight through the wood
As it certainly should.
“ Just a word in your ear,’
Says the Sydney B.
And speak out clear,
For the weak we fear.
Mr. J. L. P.
Mr. P..Q.C.,
Is it “ ’Onto,” or “ Here,”
That you hold most dear ?
Migraine,
Nervous headache< and neuralgia are the first,
surest and most reliable symptoms of approaching
decline of physical health. They are distinctly
nerve pains/ an infallible telegraph message
prognosticalive of approaching physical weakness.
They are intimations that the strength is being
impaired. Over-work of any description must
result in enervation and enfeeblement of the
corporeal structure. This wear and tear (termed
by scientists destructive metabolism) may be
brought about by woiry, excessive mental or
physical labour, by continual attention to busi-
ness, by bad food, bad air or any acute sickness,
the duties of maternity, the strain of motherhood,
dissipation, and many other causes. The proper
remedy is Clements Tonic. This must and will
cure the worst and most severe cases. This is a
positive fact; it has done it, and will do it again
always. We are thus emphatic because we know
we are talking facts, which the evidence of
disinterested persons proves. Mr. Henry A.
Crane, a gentleman well-known all over
the colony, writes : Dear Sir, —For the last
seven years I have been a victim to the most
excruciating agony from neuralgia, and also
suffered from extreme nervousness. I tried hun-
dreds of so-called specifics, but without avail ;
and, being a commercial traveller, am particularly
liable to colds from exposure to draughts, &c. ; a
slight one even always fled to my facial nerves
and caused neuralgic pains, preventing sleep and
causing excessive sympathetic headache. I saw
Clements Tonic advertised, procured a bottle, and
in two days the pain was completely cured, a con-
summation 1 had never expected, and am deeply
thankful for same. This was four months ago,
and from then till now I have never had the
slightest twinge of the excruciating torture I used
to have. You mav make whatever use of this you
like. W. H. East, Esq., Stanthorpe, Dulwich
Hill, N.S.W., suffered a martyrdom of head-
aches, due to disordered liver and indigestion,
frequently having to leave his work in the
middle of the day. He took a course of
Clements Tonic, and writes : Stanthorpe,
Dulwich-street, Petersham. Dear sir, For
years I have been a great sufferer from head-
ache, which has at times so prostrated me that I
have been totally unable to attend to my work. _ I
have consulted the most skilled physicians in
Sydney, and spent considerable money in fees and
medicine. I. however, obtained only temporary
relief, as they treated the effect, and not the cause.
I was recommended Clements Tonic and deter-
mined to test its efficacy, and I am very grateful
for the good results which have followed its use.
I took five bottles, and am wonderfully improved,
and have had no return of those excruciating
headaches since taking that valuable remedy.
Results like this must encourage your laud-
able efforts to alleviate the sufferings of
your fellow men; and you have my sanction
to publish this. Sydney Cunningham, Esq.,
70, Watkin-street, Newtown (N.S.W.), writes as
follows :—Dear Sir,— Having been a long sufferer
from neuralgia, which weakened me considerably,
and using various remedies without benefit, I was
induced to give Clements Tonic a trial, and am
pleased to inform you that the result exceeded my
utmost expectations, and after taking five large
bottles T feel better than ever I did in my life
before. My wife and other members of our family
have used it with equal success, and I can strongly
recommend it to others suffering in a like manner,
and offer vou this unsolicited testimonial to use a?
you think fit. Reader, can any other medicine
show such a record of cures as Clements Tonic?
We think not.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Port!
land should be worth buying and holding for a
rise W. J. Douglas, t'fi Bathurst-street, Sydney.


T A
Av?
\AI
f'A f
, ■ ,rS^ r \
/hsv r
/'JV-
. ■ y
t
00,O 0, a
\
3 hr
\ t S'
V,
t \ ’’
wL
* / ’ / W Me *s /r
rj /Vtl
* Jn* 1
-> YA
vf/c£ /$, '/*■/(F cfoor.
£o; 9 %*"// V
/>r/'c.e.* / P e *'~*fyt?y
A FEW NUISANCES.


t
SO MUCH FOR BUCKINGHAM !
HER MAJESTY : “Oh, my! What’s this?”
HIS G.C.M.G.-SHIP : “Why, it’s the ’ead of a Justice of the Peace as said some things of your son Halbert Eddard that disrespectful you never 'card the like of. and I took the hopportunity of
showing my hattachment to your sacred person by chopping it hoff.
H.M. : “But wouldn’t it have been better to disgrace him for life ?”
HIS G.C.M.G.-SHIP : “'Ow, yer Majesty ?”
H.M. : “Well, we might have made him a K.C.M.G., for instance.”


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90—KING STREET 90
Established ISBS.
Agencies in Loudon and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banki n®f business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits ;
3 Years 94 per cent.
12 Months ... 8| per cent.
G Months ... ... 74 per cent.
3 Months ... 5.4 per cent.
B percent, allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent. has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager
-THE-
"AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES
LONDON—IIO Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2B3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE-37 Hunter Street,
LONDON BOARD OP ADVICE
Lord Ulick H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits :
W. H. PALING & COMPANY,
356 George Street, SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
TTAYE Just Opened a Magnificent Lot of 3XTew Pianos from the celebrated Makers, Steinway, Erard, TJebel, Fenrich, Lipp, Roniscli, Bluthner, Collard,and others
, Also of the wonderful Victor Pianos at £45 and Pstey Organs. No such Variety or value elsewhere for Cash or Terms,
Society
One of the first things the Caringtons did
on reaching London was to make a sympathetic call
on Lady Jersey and tell her what she had tc
expect. “ Don’t go until you are very strong
indeed, my dear,” said Lady C.
* * #
Princess Louise discovering the corpse Oj
Boehm stretched on the floor of his studio would
make a first-class subject for a picture. Her
Royal Highness might be represented in the act of
opening her parasol, so as to shut out the gruesome
sight, and saying, “Mother will be very angry
when she hears how horrified I’ve been.”
# * *
Apropos to the Koch tuberculosis specific
what has become of the “Elixirof Life,” Brown
Sequard’s much-vaunted “Emulsion of guinea
pig ? ” We see just as many toothless bald-heads
as ever in the orchestral stalls.
* # •
A set of verses (entitled “ Miss Walker—
A Proposal ”) is going round. It commences
Will you marry a parson, Miss Walker?
Will you wed with a reverend man ?
From present appearances it would really appeal
that Miss Walker is going to marry a parson
Mind, you, we don’t say which Miss Walker.
» # #
As Gov. Hopetoun’s two sisters are quite
adepts at singing plantation-songs, that sort of
ditty may become increasingly fashionable.
* » *
Captain Anstruther Thomson, the S.A.
Governor’s burly aide-de-camp, who has been re-
called to England, made a great stir among the
unsophisticated Adelaide girls, and it is not
unlikely he will soon return to claim his bride in
a locality where a rich squatter doth reside.
• * •
Governor Kin tore seems to be funking his
projected transcontinental trip, especially as the
S.A. Government do not favour the idea.” There
are now indications that Kintore has given the
business up as a bad job.
* * *
The attempt of the papers to make a sen-
sation out of the finding of a skull between the
roof and the ceiling of a Sydney boarding-house
was a failure ; at the outset it looked like a
clumsy endeavour to suggest that some poor man
had been trapped, murdered, made into hash,
and consumed on the premises.
* # *
We have just received a copy of the
(Sydney) Red Cross Banner —price one penny—
edited by “ W. Hunter,” run under the motto of
“Truth, Piety, Virtue,” and entitled “A record
devoted to spreading Social Purity.” It is the
most wooden-headed paper we have read for
quite a long time. Three big headings which we
observe on the back page are respectively “Bar-
maids,” “A Sad Case of Incest,” and the
“ Immorality of Tight-lacing.” From which we
conclude that the godly little sheet is run by a
clergyman who knows the sort of thing that the
Dorcas Society likes to cackle about over its gin-
and-water.
* # #
Lord Hopetoun’s sisters are slightly
suggestive of the sandy desert.
« # «
The cleverest printer’s error on record
was; “His Majesty George IV has had anothe
fit of the goat.” Would a man get struck off t’
N.S.W. magistracy for that?
The Bulletin, thank Heaven, is not a
J.P. Editor Bloxham, of the Centbal Aus-
tralian (Bourke, N.S.W.) has been removed
from the N.S.W. Commission of the Peace for
having, while dealing with the Parnell case, said
nasty things about the moral character of the
Prince of Wales. As it was felt that no non-
packed N.S.W. jury would, in a criminal libel
action, for an instant uphold that bloated
descendant of a long line of bad characters,
Tummy, it was thought expedient to stab Bloxham
round the corner by depriving him of a bauble
which is the stock ambition of the successful
swine-herd, and the Great Consolation of the
retired publican, as he dies convulsively in a
kidney-fit.
* # #
Gov. Hopetoun visited Coranderrk, the
Victorian Aboriginal Station, the other day,
under the chaperonage of Water-jug Munro. His
Ex. drew attention to the fact that most of the
aboriginal women were nursing white or piebald
oabies, and that the percentage of true black
infants was extremely small. “I have—aw—
heard of albino aboriginals,” said the Earl, “ but
I did not expect to see them in such numbers, and
so near Melbourne.” Munro said he couldn’t
explain the curiosities, but the superintendent of
the station could and did. “You see, melud,”
he said confidentially, “we have so many dis-
tinguished visitors coming to see us ” The
aboriginal ladies are understood to attribute the
comparative lightness of colour of their latter-day
offspring to their own adoption of the pernicious
habit of eating too much “pflour.”
* * #
Mrs. Brown-Potter says she will always
remember Adelaide. An Adelaide youth, very
much mashed, followed her about like a pug-dog.
OUR FRIENDS FROM THE MURRUMBIDGEE IN TOWN FOR CHRISTMAS.
He wrote her about 30 letters per diem, and spen
almost a fortune in presentations. The scene at
the railway-station, when Juliet left for England,
was positively harrowing.
* # *
A Mrs. Smyth is lecturing down South
“to ladies only,” on the lines of Mrs. Doctor
Potts, but more especially on those of Mrs.
HarrisonLee,upon reform inmarriagecustoms, and
such is the attention drawn that mayoresses are
taking the chair for her. “How to be happy,
though married,” will soon be a serious question.
Query : How is the intending benedict to ascer-
tain whether his girl intends to be a Pottsite
or a Harrison-Leevite ?
* * *
Mrs. Potter and Mr. Bellew lunched with
the Governor at Marble Hill ere embarking at
Adelaide. The giddy Cora did not visit the
gubernatorial residence when the Countess was at
home.
# # *
A N.S. W. jury says that it is not libellous
to call an evening paper “ Ananias .” This comes
of State education, and an average increase of in-
telligence in the community. For the present,
Australia is safe —
* # *
The story of that alleged Pyrmont bank-
robbery, as told in some of the papers, reads like
a romance.
* * *
Lord Carington is going to lecture—that is
to say, he is going to read a lecture—at the Royal
Colonial Institute, with the Prince of Wales in
the chair, on his “Impressions of Australia.”
English information on this subject won’t be com-
plete until some well-instructed person lectures on
Australia’s impressions of Lord Carington.
* # *
It must be said to the credit of several of
the gilded Australian girls, who up to date have
taken unto their bosoms “ noble ” husbands from
abroad, that, provided the Englishmen they were
going to marry had titles, they (the girls aforesaid)
didn’t enquire too closely as to the opinions held
by the bridegrooms-elect upon the temperance-
question. To do the Englishmen justice, they on
their part are correspondingly liberal, for, granted
that an Australian girl has plenty of money, Mr.
J. Bull Piccadilly is evidently prepared to take
her with all alcoholic faults.
Great art thou, O Sugar ! For the sake
of Cash alone do we see a forty-five-year-old
noblemanette, who can’t assume his boots in the
morning until he has had five whiskies, foisted
on a pretty girl less than half his age, who must
feel every time she goes within yards of him as if
she, poor innocent, were approaching the back-
entrance of a brewery, or the open door of a
threepenny bar; and for the sake of Cash on the
nail does a comely, athletic, titled young party
from dear old Hingland hand himself over to a
stale Australian virgin with a winter face and a
temper like unto that of our favourite bull-slut
when she is nursing three pups and gnawing a
raw beef-bone.
* * *
Two hundred and twenty-five people, in-
cluding half-a-dozen women, partook of break-
fast at the expense of Mayor Burdekin on Christ-
mas morning in Sydney Temperance Hall. Then,
also, they were almost preached to death,
for at least six religious addresses were deli-
vered. The parson rarely gives anything
away, but when other folks do he shares the
reflected glory in standing-by and calling the
recipients “miserable sinners,” while inviting
them to “ flee the wrath to come.” The Metho-
dists breakfasted 300 unfortunates, male and
female, in their Centenary Hall, but they had some
mercy and let their poor, ragged, bedless visitors
off with two short “pitches.” At other places
connected with Rescue Work breakfast, and in
some cases dinner and tea, was laid on. In itself
this kind of thing is all right, but accursed is the
state of society that makes it necessary !
* # #
Johnston, the Ballarat man who obliter-
ated his wife and family in a fit of absentminded-
ness, is a godsend for the local florists. Three or
four times a week he is reported to have pegged-
out, and on these occasions the population of
Ballarat walk sadly round to the Hospital with
bouquets, wreaths and floral cresses for poor
Johnston’s coffin. Then he makes a practice of
suddenly recovering and asking for a drink, so
the emblems of grief are thrown upon the hands
of the mourners who have to sell them to wedding-
parties at seventy-five per cent, off, or break them
up into buttonholes. And by this time Johnston
is dead again, and the trade in floral tributes
receives a fresh impetus.
* # *
Mr. O’Gallagher, Parliamentary candidate
for Wollombi, N.S.W., has just been fined £lOO or
three months’ gaol for running a secret whisky-
still. It is consoling to know that the O’Gal-
lagher brand of poteen has been so far burst up
that it will not be likely to find its way into the
Parliamentary refreshment-room. However, The
Bulletin views the O’Gallagher and his alcoholic
proceedings with a not unkindly eye, for it re-
members that what he tried to make was after all
hona-Jide grog, whereas a lot of the Sydney pub-
licans have the front to trade off on you as whisky
a ghastly draught consisting obviously of ill-
disguised methylated spirit and peat-smoke.
Some time ago The Bulletin expressed its belief
that at least one-fourth of the grog consumed in
N.S.W. was illicit. Now that the police have
gone into the matter they are finding private stills
all over town and country. The cry is; “Still
they come. ”
“Mr, Oswald Brown will sail for Aus-
tralia on the 9th inst.”—Cablegram to the daily
press.
Wesley Elkins, of Yankeeland, aged eleven
years, 4ft. 7in, in height, and weighing 7Glbs.
only, finding his young stepmother an utter
failure, so far as he was Concerned, shot his father
and clubbed Mrs. Elkins into a jelly. However,
he spared the baby. He is now serving a sentence
of life-imprisonment. This little affair affords a
wholesome caution. Never christen as “ Ebenezer
Wesley ” a kid whose appropriate name may turn
out to be Iscariot Sikes. Human nature, when it
becomes a father, is apt to take an over-sanguine
view of the situation.
# * #
A dapper Sydney youth is just no a going
about with his nose in splints and large contusions
in the regions of the eye. His generally smashed-
up condition appears to be attributable to an
onslaught made upon him by a “ friend,”of whose
name he made an unauthorised use in writing an
insulting letter to a prominent actress.
# # #
It is cabled that before her execution Mrs.
Pearcey, the Hampstead murderess, admitted the
justice of her sentence, but declared that the
evidence was false. This is likely enough, con-
sidering that the detectives worked the case up on
circumstantial evidence, and doubtless strained
every nerve to make the links fit. She asked her
solicitor to insert in the Madrid papers a, notice
under certain initials, saying “Have not be-
trayed ’’—which, as the original theory of the
prosecution was that she must have had an accom-
plice, must be regarded as a remarkably clever
piece of womanly diplomacy.
* # #
Goschen’s son will stay in Sydney with
Gov. Jarsey for a year. Then he will go ’Ome to
get married.
# # #
The Victorian Army, stuck outside Par-
liament House on prorogation-day, persisted in
presenting arms to Lord Hopetoun’s sisters, a
breach of official regulations which upset the Con-
stitution, and robbed the subsequent reception of
Hopetoun of its proper Imperial significance.
However, as the Army were burning to present
arms to somebody there seemed no reason why they
houldn’t go through the performance before a
Ample of young women, especially as the said
angels were accompanied by a man in a cocked
hat. Armies, all the world over, are accustomed
to remember a cocked hat to keep it holy.
#* # '
Insolvency Judge Hickman Molesworth is
to be an Acting Supreme Court Judge (Vic.)
during the absence on leave of Justice Williams.
Both Molesworth and Williams of to-day are sons
of deceased Judges of the same Court. Old
“Dick” Ireland, Q.C., gave young Williams his
BOURKEING JUSTICE.
J.P.’s who (with the aid of clerks)
Send prisoners to gaols,
You mustn’t print unkind remarks
About the Prince of Wales ;
It is the bizness of the beaks
To make the guilty wince,
But woe betide the one who speaks
A word against the Prince.
Your duty clear before you lies,
Which cannot be denied—
You’ve either got to shut your eyes
Or have them opened wide ;
To common faults you keep awake,
But others, bless your souls !
You mustn’t see, or, no mistake,
We’ll strike you off the rolls.
A frown is on our brow,
We’ve had to mutter “ dam 1”
What is the meaning, now,
Of this here cablegram ?
Most names we can recall
Of noodles of renown—
But who on earth at all
Is Mr. Oswald Brown ?
Which “instant” will (or did)
His nibs begin to roam?
How long has he been hid
In mystery at “ home ” ?
Is he republi-can,
Or does he love the Crown —
What stamp of gentleman
Is Mr. Oswald Brown ?
Has he got sandy hair,
Or none, upon his head,
And does he say a prayer
Before he goes to bed ?
We’ll give a golden sov.
To anyone in town
Who’ll tell us something of
The history of Brown.
Our brains are in a knot,
Entangled up by rage—
Why send such utter rot
Per cable to the Age ?
Yet on the scroll of fame
We've duly written down
The unfamiliar name
Of Mr. Oswald Brown.


PUL VERM ACKER’S WORLD-
FAMED GALVANIC BELTS
FOR THE CURB OK
Nervous Exhaustion and Debility, Sciatica.
Lumbago, Rheumatism, &c„
HAVE received Testimonials from Three
Physicians to Her Majesty the Queen and
the Leading Physicians of many London Hospi-
tals, including over Forty Members of the Royal
College of Physicians of London.
For full Price-list and particulars, see new pam-
phlet “Galvanism; Nature’s Chief Restorer of
Impaired Vital Energy.” Pamphlets Free.
Sole Agents for N.S.W.,
FROST <Sc SHIPHAM,
ELECTRICIANS,
474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
Sent Post Free Everywhere.
GARRARD & HAMILTON, Auctioneers
76 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
fi „t .We-o„ in hedi/nTdo
w hioh need not b Molegworth One of the
the same. f ? Melbourne Courts used to be to
criminal sights a t a big criminal trial,
see Old M° le ? re Cd d an d Hickman Molesworth
pened socially. # *
m, w g W Department of Education has
The N.o. • 1 ass istant-teachers as to
called for r^ u T Y ou™re ‘ requested to .state
whether are a permanent or an assistant
ass. !” # « *
. , • fi ir > Presbvterian Church coming
What 'is the !niles from Inverell
to? At a k " “ecentor named Jamieson, who
they have aP «e Not that that makes any
‘•SSS t{ on quite independently of
him and °f # eacll ot 101 *
The Melbourne burglars appear to be
impression “'££*-
them own. It never occu s the suburbs
they &W„terJand a bunch of skeleton-keys,
‘‘foorceare stealthily laying siege to the
th® r their mutual affections, and that the
who sweetly giggle over the stories of suc-
?irls f cracking ■’ are all the while dying to
3 nnt atthef g rd Sg in the way of their fancy
boys in blue. It’s the burglars’ girls that the
police capture. # #
The Hampstead murderess has been satis-
factorily hanged:—
The good-natured, well-meaning Bev. T.
J. Curtif, formerly of Sydney, which he is now
visiting during a vacation, appears to have got
into arow with his San Francisco congregation,
to whom he introduced Rev. Andrew Gardiner
when the latter paid his recent ill-starred visit to
the Citv of the Golden Gate. Mr. Curtis
appears to admit that, when he allowed Mr
Gardiner to occupy Ins pulpit, he knew something
ofthelatter’slittleunmatnmonial peccadilloes, i no-
thing that makes the San Franciscans especially
“mad” appears to be that Andrew, on the
strength of Mr. Curtis’ introduction, was received
at the homes of one or two people of position and
“ ioined in parties where he made himself most
affable, and taught the young ladies new games.
# * *
Speech days have happened again at the
schools. The prize boy once more, with his armtul
of Macaulay’s “ History of England ; a wet cab-
bage-leaf is kept on his brain at night, because
such fertility cannot be too moist. The peda-
gogue’s ideal is that every boy ought to be a
schoolmaster.
* * *
The case of Avison, at Daylesford, (V.),
who split the skull of his wife’s alleged paramour,
affords another strong argument for the contention
that furies should have something to say in hxmg
punishment. What dozen intelligent men would
like to bring in a bald verdict of guilty m this
case, where the penalty, with which they have now
nothing to do, might be the rope .' It was a
dilemma like this that led a Melbourne jury to
bring in an illogical verdict of “not guilty
against Lily Bagley for shooting at her false lover.
It is a backdoor way of saying served him
right,” and the sooner our laws are made to pro-
vide for such cases, the sooner will they be made
io approach justice.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —As some of your corres-
pondents who themselves know very nasty things
about Chinese cooks, suggest that many of then
friends attribute the incident published under the
head of “Stuffing” to the writer’s fancy—l wish
to state that he never had any fancy that he is a
thoroughly practical man of a type far from com-
mon, and would scorn to lie for mere payment at
per inch. He is also in possession of other Chinese
items of a similar nature, still better calculated to
make persons who employ the heathen as cooks
sit up and chew slow. At your service, Ihe
Bunyip.
* * *
Please keep my name out ! In one of the
Sydney Law Courts last week a childlike and
bland gentleman craned over the reportorial desk
with “ Is it absolutely necessary to publish ail the
names in this case?” The reply was, Y es,
especially those of the people who want to be kept
out.” Familiar experience.
# * *
The very latest thing in Sydney “bell-
topper” journalism is for the gorgeous
society-reporter to place his name carefully on the
list of distinguished visitors thus: “ Mr. Ji*.
Snobleigh J. Gadzooks,” while omitting entirely
all mention of his fellow scribes or the proprietors
of the rival rags.
The charms of woman so divine
We often toast in ruddy wine,
And passionately we aver
Our pleasure in protecting her :
We doff our hats and bow our necks
To members of the weaker sex.
But lovely woman’s most divine
When dangled from the gallows-lino ;
Our sense of duty we aver
By, now and then, a-hangmg her.
We doff our hats and break the necks
Of members of the weaker sex.
Personal Items.
Bloxham shocks ’em.
“Vengeance is mine,” saith the Rev.
Brentnall.
Swallow, the Melbourne biscuit-baker, left
£189,814 behind him for probate.
Dr. Webber, Bishop of Brisbane, and
Coadjutor-Bishop Dawes, are both bachelors.
There are three Sydney daily papers which
spell Chief Justice Higinbotham’s name with two
“g’s.”
Ex-Judge Pater, the eccentric Adelaide
P.M., is becoming notorious for harsh sentences
in trumpery cases.
S. D. Parnell, the originator of the eight-
hour movement in Maoriland, has gone where
time is of no account, aged 81.
John Macrossan, the apostle of N.Q.
Separation (and, we regret to say, nigger-labour),
was educated for the R.C. priesthood.
Prophet Elijah Egeson still sticks to his
drought prediction. He says that so far the rain-
fall has been but half the usual average.
Isambert, member for Rosewood (Q.),
thinks that women should work in the fields as
well as in factories. Isambert is a German.
Barrister James Moriarty appears to have
succeeded to the “criminal” shoes of the late
David Buchanan in N.S.W. Supreme Court.
G. R. Sims betrays a disposition to talk
about love in his “Mustard and Cress.” It must
be at least three years since he buried his wife.
ť
ŧ
Sir Malcolm Fraser, late Colonial Secretary
for Western Australia, will probably be appointed
Agent-General for the new self-governing colony.
Plain Bill Robinson’s salary in Western
Australia, under the new Constitution recently
granted to that colony, is £4OOO, not £2500, as
recently stated.
Mr. Noble, of Noble and Hoare, the
varnish-makers, is dead. He was very rich
and very hospitable, and was facetiously nick-
named “ the Polish Count.”
According to an exchange, when Crooks
left Adelaide Stockade he received two sovereigns
out of the allowance to long-sentenced prisoners
when discharged. He took ’em.
The Bulletin feels much interested in
accusations of plagiarism made against a N.Z.
literary man who has appended his name to more
than one brilliant piece of verse.
Of all the Imperial officers who have acted
as Governors during the century, four only have
died on Australian sod—Blackall (Q.), Hotham
(Vic.), Daly (S.A.), and Collins (Tas.).
Mrs. O’Shea, it appears, used to explain
to her servants that the doors of her rooms were
locked when Mr. Parnell visited her “because of
the secret society.” Private detectives?
A Melbourne newspaper mentions the fact
that a man who arrived in Sydney 65 years ago,
and made money, had visited the southern
metropolis one day last week for the first time !
Lord Salisbury, who of late years has
suffered from want of exercise, is getting himself
into healthy condition again. During his last
holiday he walked off a pound of superfluous flesh.
When the late Sydney Taiwhanga visited
London some years ago, he mounted a street
rostrum and lectured the Cockneys on the iniquity
of their ways. It was a case of the kettle and the
pot over again.
A Sydney barrister, in defending a prisoner
recently, used a speech delivered by Curran nearly
a century ago, without acknowledgement, and
apparently without anyone in court at the time
discovering the fact.
In his autobiography Birchall, the Canadian
murderer wrote: “I deny that I ever killed a
horse. I can only say that had I treated my
fellow-creatures one-half as well as I always
treated my horses, they would have precious little
complaint to make against me.” All “great”
mu'rderers, from Palmer to Peace were fond of
animals.
This is an iconoclastic age. Among the
broken idols are Gladstone, Parnell, I oole,
Brigand Stanley, Jimmy Mirams, John Haynes,
Billy Murphy and John Davies. Parkes and
Slavin are still erect.
Sydney Bancroft, the actor, has offered to
give £lOOO to General Booth’s “ reclamation of the
masses ” scheme if ninety-and-nine other just
persons will do likewise. Jimmy 1 yson might
safely offer a million sterling on the same terms.
The King of Holland leaves two natural
sons, one a' painter of eminence, who has been
ennobled, and the other an able journalist, who
writes the Parisian letter of an Amsterdam paper.
The King’s two legitimate sons were vicious nin-
compoops.
Governor Jersey has let his place in
Oxfordshire on a five years’ lease. We fear he is
coming out to stay. One thing is very certain
about Gov. Jersey He belongs, or thinks he
does, to a very much more select order of society
than his predecessor.
In the big Hill End year a lucky digger,
known as “ Northumberland ” Brown, bid a big
price for the Royal Hotel in George-street,
Sydney, paying £5OOO down as a deposit. lor
some reason or other lie would not complete the
bargain, and forfeited the deposit.
Councillor J. Zimri Sellar, of Adelaide
Corporation, is a prodigy. The number of times
he has stood for different offices and got licked
could not be reckoned, but he has got in at last.
It used to be a rare thing for Sellar to total as
many votes as were recorded under the heading
“ informal.”
We are sorry to hear that shortly before
his death Sir James Martin wrote to Colonial-
Architect Barnet, expressing his approval of the
Sydney Post-office carvings. Sir James had pre-
viously denounced them. An effigy of the late
Chief Justice in unconscious caricature, consti-
tutes one of the features of the carvings.
A well-known Sydney barrister, once an
attorney, when in the lower branch used to say
that he could electrify any jury when addressing
them. He was struck off the roll of attorneys
and “called” to “horsehair” the same day, a
thing unprecedented in the history of the profes-
sion ; but although one of the soundest lawyers at
the Bar, he has been by no means a boom as a
“ jury ” man.
Clement Wragge, the Queensland weather-
prophet, is singularly absorbed in his profession.
He has a beautiful residence and observatory some
five miles out of Brisbane, where, although
extremely hospitable, he entertains his friends
chiefly with discourses on the Solar System. In his
leisure moments he pets and plays with a greasy-
looking little nigger, whom he caught in the
Burke district and who is extremely attached to
him.
At the presentation of a silver service to
Mr. G. H. Jenkins, clerk of the Victorian
Legislative Assembly, in commemoration of his
25th year of office, Mr. Jenkins mentioned that
he had served under all the successive Victorian
Speakers and under 17 Ministries, and could only
now see in the House six members who were there
a quarter of a century ago : McLellan, L. L.
Smith, John Woods, W. C Smith, R. Burrowes,
and Duncan Gillies. Verily the fittest survive !
The death of old Baron Huddlestone recalls
to mind one of Bernal Osborne’s smartest sayings.
Huddlestone’s marriage with Lady Diana Beau-
clerk, an elderly daughter of the Duke of St.
Albans, turned his woolly head altogether, and his
familiar references to “dear Di. became the
favourite joke of the clubs. Basking in this newly-
reflected glory, the old judge asked Bernal Osborne
to suggest a suitable motto for the exalted house
of Huddlestone. The witty Irishman suggested
“ Never say Di.”
Amelie Rives Chanler (writes a London
correspondent to The Bulletin) is not, physically
speaking, what she is cracked up to be. She is
narrow-chested and delicate-looking, with a hectic
complexion and coarse, though finely-coloured,
red Hair. She is simple, quiet, and unaffected,
but absolutely confined in her ideas, and able only
to write about herself. Her husband is the oddest
contrast. He is a solemn, dapper, little, antique,
’Merkan dude, the mirage of fashionable pre-
cision and insipidity. He has plenty of money
(he is a connection of the Astors), and he thinks
his wife a literary marvel. Her great idea just at
present is painting, and they have taken ft house
in Paris where she is studying.
The Wraith of Resolutions Vain.
A Seasonable Reminiscence.
A glad New Year had just begun—
I sat me down and thought
Of how the last departed one
No change in me had wrought;
I’d left undone the good, and dono
The things I didn’t ought.
That very night, twelve months ago,
I’d smitten hard my brow,
And registered (like you, yerknow)
The ancient New Year’s vow —
The same that thousands here below
Are getting ready nou\
I’d vowed to labour like a hind —
That’s Saxon—all the day,
To live a sober life and mind
To “ put a bit away ”
Against the time when I shall find
My tresses turning grey.
But e’en as pie-crust on a pie
Those vows had come to grief ;
Of corn for munching by-and-bye
I’d stored no golden sheaf—
“ This very night I will,” quoth I,
“Turn over a new leaf.”
But ere more oaths I could repeat
A ghost came gliding in
My humble room, and took a seat,
And grinned a shocking grin
I drank a glass of whisky neat,
For cold I’d turned within.
“The Wraith of Resolutions vain
Am I,” the spectre spoke,
“Don’t trouble to repent again,
’Tis getting past a joke ;
Contented be still to remain
A sinful sort of bloke.
“ Contented be to gamble, cuss,
And go upon the spree,
Find comfort in behaving thus—
Aye, do it heartilee.”
Quoth I, “ Henceforth 1 will be wuss ”
“Now, right you are,” quoth he.
The Wraith of Resolutions Vain
Then vanished into space,
I’ve never seen his face again
At any time or place,
]S’or ever will whilst I remain
An out-and-out disgrace.
Another year is nearly spent,
Its course is almost run,
But deuce a bit do I repent
The naughty things I’ve dono.
I will, if nothing should prevent,
Be wuss in Ninety-one.
mas Day, 1890.
Why Grant Was Great.
DUE RECOGNITION WHEN TRUE MERIT IS ONCE
ESTABLISHED.
Was Grant a great General ? Conceded. What
made him so ? When IT. S. Grant was hauling
cord wood into St. Louis, his neighbours did not
imagine he would become the famous man of his
generation. When he was managing the little
tannery in Galena no one of his intimates recog-
nised in him a future hero ; but he displayed
qualities which should have satisfied them he was
no common man. What was there about him.
If you start to build a single-story shanty, you
pav little attention to the foundation ; you may
lay stringers in the sand with little fear the build-
ing will fall. But if you propose erecting a 10-
story block, your architect will tell you you must
go to the rock for the basis of your foundation, or
the stately structure is liable to tumble about
your ears. ||The foundation of a great man is
moral force —character: this is the rock found-
ation. The shiftless man lacks it; he never suc-
ceeds. Grant never used an oath —a sure indica-
tion of moral character. He was a man of
opinions—as his wife said was obstinate ;in other
words, he had will-power, force. These qualities,
with good judgment, well balanced mental powers,
and peculiar executive ability, supplemented by a
military education, fitted him for the emergency
when it came. As soon as his merits became
known, success was assured. This is always the
case with things as with men. Mr. W. Bradley,
Surveyor, of Dimboola, Victoria, writes under
date of 22nd August, 1890 I have suffered for
some three years from disorder of the liver and
urinary organs and kidney disease. I had such
pains in the region of the heart as led me to
believe that there was an organic affection of that
organ. All these symptoms were removed after
using Warner’s safe cure, of which I took three
bottles, which made such an improvement in my
health that I was soon restored.” Mr. Wm. bib-
bald, a gentleman who has resided for the past
thirty years in the Gippsland District, has favored
us with the subjoined testunony. Balgonie, btrat-
forcl, Victoria, April 20th, 1890.-“ The middle of
last year when exposed to the wet I caught cold
which terminated in rheumatic fever. My illness
took such a serious turn that high fever set in
followed by shivering and constant sweats. lor
nine -weeks I was confined to my bed, in a state of
complete helplessness, and the slightest movement
caused exquisite torture. My limbs became swollen
and inflamed, and I lost the use of my right hand
and left foot. Experiencing no relief from other
medicines prescribed, Warner’s safe rheumatic
cure was given to me alternately with Warner s
safe cure, when a decided improvement in ray
condition took place. With the third bottle, the
stiffness of my hand and foot was removed, in
all I took 10 or 12 bottles and a few vials of safe
pills. My suffering which was of an intense
nature, has entirely ceased, and l am truly grate-
ful for restoration to health, which I owe to
Warner’s safe remedies.” The test of merit is the
accomplishment of the matter in hand. The best
is that which is most certain.


Wolfe’,s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
If asked to drink, call for Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe's Schnapps.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, 355. Daiims & Go., King-street
Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Choicest Jewellery. Daiims & Co., King-st. Arcade.
WHEN THE BLOOD Is thin or impur*
every organ and fibre of the body becomes en<
feebled and less capable of resisting prevailing
diseases. Among the indications of depraved
blood are boils, carbuncles, pimples, eruptions,
sore eyes, ulcers, tumors, and glandular swell,
ings. To strike at the root of these evils,
cleanse the blood with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
This medicine has maintained its world-wide
reputation, for nearly half a century, as the
Standard 8100d o Piirifiei'.
It is a highly-concentrated extract of the most
powerful vegetable alteratives and tonics. The
most effective remedy for scrofula, it is equally
beneficial in gout, rheumatism, catarrh, and
dyspepsia, also in liver and kidney com-
plaints. A medicine for men, women,
and children. Be sure and ask for
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
PREPARED BY
Dr, J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
PURE »"» OLD
AUSTRALIAN
W ines
SPECIALITIES:
CLARET and HOCK.
CALDWELL CO.,
MelD o-urne,
4
AND
Lake Albert Vineyard, Wagga Wagga, N.S.W
■nnHE NOAH’S ARK!—Gilbert J. Smith,
Wig Maker, Theatrical and Fancy Costumier,
Wigs. Historical and Fancy Dresses, Tights, Stage Jewel-
lery, and every requisite for Stage or Ball for Sale or Hire
or Made to Order. Estimates given for Dressing or Staging
Operas, Dramas, Comedies, Bazaars, Carnivals, etc., etc!
Crease, Paints and Make-up of every description. Country
orders receive prompt attention.
Gll.ltKUT .1. SMITH, Then!picul Costumier,
(opposite Criterion Theatre,)
297 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
JAPANESE & INDIAN SHOW-ROOMS,
George Street, Sydney. .T>s
(Next Elvy's Music Warehouse),
Inspection Invited,
lapanese and China Silks and Crepes, Screens, Tables,
Fans, Curtains, Trays, Easels, Quilted Silk Dressing Gowns
Cotton Crapes, Piano Drapes, Blue Cloth for Dresses and
Suits, China,Tea Sets, Cabinets, etc. Miss Nellie Stewart’s |
Miss Janet Achurch’s, Mrs. Brown-Potler'sand Mr. Fellow's
Photos.
A, IMIWjMII A CO., 325 George-st., Sydney.
Furniture, etc.
John Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
ihr 60S Cteorg-e Street, Sydney.
Price List <0 Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
m
Established 1860.
A Strong Balcony Cane
Chair 12/0
A Strong Long Balcony
Lounge 15/
FOR Austrian, American
and Cane CHAIRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and
Balcony Seats; for Camp
Folding Bedsteads, witli
Woven Wire Spring Mat-
tresses, 20/
Go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
USTRTAN CHAIR
In OH CARR E T S,
1 LINOLEUMS,
FLOOR CLOTHS, Rugs’
Mats, Blinds, Matting,
KapoU, Upholsterers’ Ma-
terials, Plushes, Tapes-
; tries. (limps and Cords.
Co to
LAWLER’S,
608 C-eorge-st.
Established 1860.
Illustrated Catalogue
j Rost Free.
(full size), ss.
1
t
WOOD SEAT
CHAIR, Black
or White, 2s 9d.
For toilet sets,
china, glass-
ware, Dinner and Tea
Sets, Cups and Saucers, ,
Cruets, Mangles, Cutlery '
and Plated-ware, Copper
Boilers and Stoves.
Go to
LAWLER’S,
608 George-street,
Brickfield Hill.
Telephone 66.
CHEST of DRAWERS,
Seven Drawers in
all, as design shows;
brackets at front, locks,
keys, etc. —
Cedar, pine lined,
47/6, 50/- 65/-
If White Pine polished,
47/6, 50/-, 55/-
Designs of other and
costlier Chests of Drawers
upon application.
r
» 4,
• a
t
ţ
Dressing chests, i
with Glass fixed—
Cedar, pine lined,
£2 15/- £3 15/- |
White Pine, polished,
£2 2/6 £2 15/- |
For bedsteads,
CHILDREN’S COTS,
Cornices, Window Draperies
and Overmantels, Toilet
Glasses, Ice Chests, Filters
and Cane Lounges.
Go to LAWLER’S,
608 George-streefc. j
Established 1860.
BEDDING, best quality—
2ft 6in
Paillasses, white Forfar 9/
Mattresses, flock 15/
~ Java kapok 20/
J ava kapok, extra super.,
6in. borders, d. thick. 27/G
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/per lb. 40/
Bolsters, hair 7/
~ kapok 5/
Pillows, kapok (lar. sizk) 3/6
„ white Irish goose
feathers 7/G
3ft 3ft 6in 4ft 6in
10/ 11/ 12/6
17/6 20/ 25/
25/ 30/ 35/
35/ 40/ 45/
50/ 60/ 80/
8/ 10/ 12/
6/ 7/ 8/
4/ 4/6 5/
10/ 12/6 15/
ť
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
wo can SELL at 25
per cent, less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
AWLER’S TOILET
I SETS
Band and Line, full number
of pieces, 8/0
White and Gold, larg-e sets, full
number pieces, 15/ set
Fancy and Gold, do. 17/6, 21/
Plain Printed Sets, do. 9/6 10/6
Handsome and effective sets
25/- 35/- 45/- 55/
ŧ
C CHt AVlflf 5
F L KBBA t e d
“ CHEAYIN’S ”
RAPID wateh FILTERS, ,
From 11s Gd to 28s.
JOHN LAWLER
AND SONS,
Wire Mattress and Bedding
i Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet-
Makers,
608 George Street, Sydney,d
[Kstablishhd ]S(iO]
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 7.45. Carriages at 10.40.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS. TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
OUR GRAND CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
DICK WHITTINGTON AND HIS CAT.
Special Engagement of
I3r MISS MAGGIE MOORE
(Mrs. J. C. Williamson), as
jOieoiis;.
Rox office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and BoucicauU.
Acting Manager ... Mr.. H. J. Magee.
every evening-every evening
until further notice.
“X M 3P XI X. S E.”
Return of Messrs. Titheradge, Lynda], Lawrence, Cates,
etc., Mesdames Enson, Romer and Maud Williamson
(her first appearance in Sydney).
Prices—sa, 3a. 2s and Is. Rox Plan at Nicholson’s.
T H E A T R E ROYAL
*“• , Lessee ... ... Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Lnder the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
To-Night and Every Evening at 7.30,
Gorgeous Operatic, Comic, Spectacular Pantomime
“c I !KT 23 253 XX 253 L 21a -A..”
Prices of Admission—ss.. Ss. and ONE SHILLING.
CYCLO R A M A.
The Baltic of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effectsßugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
■’ nc * ° p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyolorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
gONDI AQUARIUM.
Lessee and Manager .... ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC AND PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d. Trams to Gate—Fare, 4d.
QOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Lessee . .. Wm. Larmoce.
If visitors leave Sydney without seeing COOGEE and its
PALACE AQUARIUM, they will have missed the choicest,
loveliest and most charming spot in Australia.
There Is only One Coogee in Australia!
Come and breathe its healthy air, and see the 1001 attra-
tions in its enchanting Aquarium
Immense Holiday Attractions.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 29, 1890.
Tenders for public works and
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 7,
Bridge in Approach, Laybury Creek Bridge
Bridge over Termed Creek, Road Burril to Ulla-
dulla
Additions to Bridge, Myall Creek, road Bingera
to Warialda (fresh tenders)
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Braid-
wood
Railway from Quarry at Green Point to Freeburn
Island, Clarence River
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Gunning-
Fencing, etc., and Tank, Court House, Broken
Hill (fresh tenders)
Contract No. 61 Sydney Sewerage, Stormwater
Sewer, Beattie-street to White Bay, Balmain
Repairs Commandant’s Quarters. Dawes Battery
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for Nimboy
River, at Nim boy da
Completion of Wharf at Sans Souci
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to Bellinger River.
1891 (fresh tenders.) £5 deposit
Erection of Stamp Office, Phillip-stroet (fresh
tenders.)
Manufacture of Switches and Crossings for Tram-
ways
Construction of Stormwater Sewer, Phillip-street,
Alexandria. Contract No. 71, Sydney
Sewerage
Bridge, Sheas Creek, at Rickettv street, Botany
(fresh tenders)
Slater's Work, 1891 (fresh tenders.) £2O deposit
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21.
Construction, &c., of Railway Bridges, Leycester
and Wilson Creeks, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Construction of Ist Section Lismore-Tweed Rail-
way
Erection of Courthouse, Hay
Landing Stage at Menindie
Extension of Admiralty Wharf, Woolloomooloo
Construction of Punt for Mouth of Bega River
Erection of Wharf, Seven Oaks, Macleay River
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18.
Contract No. 64 Sydney Sewerage, Construction
of Aqueducts in connection with Main Out-
fall Sewer, Western Suburbs
Construction of Tramway from present terminus
of the North Shore (sablo Tramway to Lane
Cove-rond. (Plans to be seen after 2nd
January, 1891.)
BRUCE SMITH.
Furniture, &c.
E W TON AND LAMB
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
bedding manufacturers.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Fi^stJitbs for mning-room“-side-
BOARD, DINNER WAGGON TABLE
OVERMANTEL, COUCH, EASY CHAIRS
CARVING CHAIRS and DINING CHAIr|
all to match. Newton & Lamb.
ELF-AD JUSTING HAMMOCK CHAIR
Patented.
. This chair adjusts itself to any position, from
sitting to reclining and vice versa, at the will of
the occupant. It is simple yet ingenious in its
construction; works automatically. The above
cut represents only two of the numerous positions
that can be obtained instantly, and with but little
effort It fits perfectly every part of the body,
and gives the occupant entire rest. We can now
supply portable suspension Stands to enable the
Chair to be used anywhere. Price, with Stand,
305.; without Stand, 255.
D
Packing in canvas, if required, 2s. 6d. extra.
Upholstered, at all prices.
OCCASIONAL TABLES in all Woods. Im-
mense variety of designs; also, elegantly
finished in Embroidery, Plush, &c. Newton and
Lamb.
Letter filingTcabinets (Amberg’s)
all letters found instantly : no endorsing or
indexing.
0
Drawing-room
cabinets.
Early English
CHIPPENDALE DESIGNS.
Newton & Lamb.
t
WALNUT FALL
FRONT PEDESTAL
WRITING DESKS, of vari-
ous sizes, fitted with Shelves,
Moveable Pigeon-holes, Slid-
ing Trays, Stationery, Draw-
ers, revolving portable triple
Inkstand. Receptacles for
Stamps, and Ruler and Pen
Racks. Outside Drawers divided into compart-
ments by movable partitions to admit of enlarging
or diminishing the space when required. Looks
automatically. One of the most useful, commo-
dious, and perfectly-planned articles for the Library
or Office yet produced. Admirably suited to the
necessities of professional and business men.
WALNUT FALL FRONT SINGLE
PEDESTAL WRITING DESK.—
Internal arrangements almost identical with the
description given above. Price only £l2 10s.
B
R
OARD-ROOM TABLES, all sizes.
EVOLVING OFFICE CHAIRS,
Adjustable Spring Backs.
with
Enclosed office washstands and
FITTINGS.
ţ
"RON SAFES,
Various Sizes.
Newton and Lamb,
Spring & O’Connell
Streets,
ť
B EDSTEADS, all siz
Nickel-plated and Black and
Brass. Great variety.
Bedding. —All descriptions
at lowest rates.
Newton & Lamb.
.
SPRING MAT-
TRESSES (Woven
Wire), best make; also.
Spiral Spring.
Price, from 7s. fid. each-
CHEAP FURNITURE.—Pine Tables, from
10s. ; Dining Tables, from 20s. ; Kitchen
Dressers, from 225. 6d.; Washstands, from 12s. 6d.;
Chests of Drawers, from 405.; Wardrobes, from
80s.; Cedar Cheffoniers, from 30s. ; Cedar Side-
boards, from £3 35.; Clothes Horses, from
Bs. Gd. ; Writing Tables, with drawers, from 25
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
Show Rooms and Manufactory:
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS,
AND
Wolfe’s Schnapps—lt is grand.
Home Irish ladies have presented Parnell
with a bouquet of white lilies. What humorists !
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
The most unfortunate part of the Parnell-
O’&hea business is that it has divided the Horne
Rulers, for a time, into two bodies, and that the
majority in each camp have an intense dislike to
die religion of the majority of the other.
I lie recent session of the Victorian Par-
liament petered-out amidst a miserable display of
mutual envy, hatied and malice by the Opposi-
tionists, and the turbulent discomfiture of poor
Tom Bent, whose political importance seems to
have disappeared vith his mythical half-mill on
yf money.
“ There is literally no end to the trouble
people will take to attend and see a notorious
criminal being tried, whilst no one cares to put
himself out to go and see a honest man con-
demned ! — The new Pradhouime.
No one who knows the man can help pity-
ing' John Ninimo, or, as he calls himself, Nimmaw,
for the basting ho gets over the Premier Per-
manent fraud cases, at the trial whereof he
said he was t o poor to hire counsel for
his defence. He first burst into fame with a
speech in Emerald i I ill Council, with his curious
knack of speaking of himself in the third person,
thus: —“ Mister Mayor !It is proposed to mak’
Couricillore Nimmaw one of the Public Wurruks
Commytee. \\ lieu Councillor .■ Nimmaw jined
this Council, Counci Here Nimmaw thoeht that,
being a practical engiueaw, lie ocht to be appyinted
upon the Public Wurruks Commytee, but. sir,
Conneillore Nimmaw was not appyinted on the
Public Wurruks Cjinmytee, and. therefore, Coun-
o ill ore Nimmaw now declines to sit upon the
Public Wurruks Commytee. So far as Nimmos
honesty goes, The Bulletin' would trust him,
evm now, to hold its last cent.


Yuu really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
T Jse Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Deaf Forty Years.
The description ot a simple remedy, by which a
complete cure of deafness and noises in the head of
forty years’ standing has just been effected,
will be sent free to anyone who applies to
J. H. X tCTI OL.SU\,
175 William Street, Meeuou'rne.
«iT-.
»-5--
(LIMITED)
IS the most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
Seven Octaves. Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action. Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases.
This Piano is introduced by W. H. PALING & CO., Limited, for the
purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost every household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a firsLclass Piano at a price heretofore
EIGHT 4-
1- . Length 4 - 10- Depth 2
■paid
for a much inferior instrument.
“When slovens get Mdy they polish the
bottoms of the p&nsV-When
are given
Ihey bi
never tired of cleaning up
t
nsgum
.'LL',
Two servants in two neighboring houses dwelt,
But differently their daily labor felt;
Jaded and weary of her life was one,
Always at work, and yet ’twas never done.
The other walked out nightly with her beau,
But then she cleaned house with SAPOLIO.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
Ewing*’s Indelible
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
tub Elite of tub Australasian Colonies.
Marking* Ink.
Report of the Government A nalytical Chemist . '‘l have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. — Signed, Wm. Johnston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In oases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The £3rigb.tozx of 3XT South. 'Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT / O'CLOCK.
TS/Lrs. . . Proprietress.
WE NT WORTH v NOTE U IsaaczSEß®
sjs$ js <y
'm
ippiijji
Wentworth Mel,
CHI RUH HILL,
SYDUEY.
For a Residential Hotel
the site is unequalled,
being quiet, healthy, and
central, opposite public
reserve, and within easy
walking distance of the
G.P.0., Public Offices,
Ranks, Theatres and
Trains.
The accommodation and
attendance arc excellent.
Terms Moderate.
Mrs. Hayes,
Proprietress.
ţ
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Pkkktns’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper,
Wholesale ami for Export hi/ the Proprietors, Worcester: < 'rouse. & JUh' kurll, London, ijr., sc.j
and by Grocers and Oilmen throujhout the If arid.
CASHMERE bouquet
toilet SOAP
Is made with the, utmost cake from materials
selected with the
CiUKATEST REGARD FOR I'lKll V.
And for the soothing and beneficial effect which
they impart to the skin and the complexion.
CSr olcS Medal, Paris, 1880
“ Unexcelled in Quality and Perfume.”
“KITTY O’SHEA.”
Few people are aware that the wife of Captain
O’Shea -M P.. the redoubtable member for Gal-
W “’tL .i.W of tut...» Of mark the pllaot
and indomitable Sir Evelyn Wood, V C., the only
«tain on whose scutcheon-and which must tor
ever alas ! remain a stain—is that he signed the
imio’ble and humiliating peace of Majuba Hill.
g “ Mrs O’Shea, or Kitty O’Shea as she is now
called by those who have the pleasuie of her
friendship and acquaintance, possesses m a rare
decree the t hree splendid attributes of ‘ blood,
beauty, and bravery.’ Who that ever had the
privilege of visiting Rivenhall Place, the house
and home of her father, Sir John 1 age Wood,
will ever forget the lovely apparition that threw
an air of enchantment around in the shape of
Kate Wood, the third and youngest daughter,
whose blue-grey eyes were like embodied poetry,
and fascinated all who come under their influence .
Her mother, Lady Wood, commenced novel-
writin" at an age when most women consider
themselves utterly shelved and done for, and her
novels would have been considered sufficient to
secure tame for the family, had she not been far
i uustn ppecl in this respect by her second daughter,
Mrs. Steele, whose ‘ Gardenhurst to mention
one book of many she has written—has become
one of our classics, being in every way so excep-
tionally good that it stands almost on a par with
Jane Eyre or Adam Bede. The eldest sister,
Lady Thomas Barret-Lennard, in her own
way is not less distinguished, for as an
amateur actress she will long be remembered,
more especially as she has transmitted her
rare talent in that respect to more than one of her
children. Mrs. O’Shea used also to take a
prominent part in the theatricals of Belhus and
Rivenhall Place. The lovely contour of het
exquisite figure, the beautiful brown tresses,
worn without a single artifice and restraint,
through which ran a golden glimmer—which in
the Highlands is said to bring luck - all combined
to make Mrs. O’Shea’s impersonations more thaii
usually striking and attractive, in addition to
which she possessed the softest of voices, cast
with such a rich, deep, sonorous tone of musical
sympathy, that she w'as the very ideal of a
heroine of, romance. Such was and is Kitty
O’Shea, to whose portrait we have this week very
inadequately endeavoured to do justice.'—St.
Stephen’s Review— some time a<jo.
Going sailing are you ? Whoo-oop ! Why
not straighten yourself up beforehand with
Marshall's- Tonic Nervine?
Wolfe’s Schnapps —the ladies appreciate it.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) goes to England
in January on a year’s leave. He has per-
sistently refused anything smaller than a
baronetcy, and evidently intends to get a bauble
this time. ■
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
The most exciting bit of sport at the Sydney
Association Ground on Saturday week was when
a cash fielder arrayed in spotless white failed to
pay up over the sprint race. A prominent bicyclist
was the first to have a shy, by “ biffing ” him “on
the jaw,” and then the crowd joined in and gave
him a terrible thrashing.
The Intercolonial Cricket Match on the
Adelaide Oval was won with six wickets to the
good by N. S. Wales, who scored 406 and 27 for 4
wickets, while S. Australia put together 241 and
121. For the winners Moses and Iredale each
scored 67, Dorman 58, Richardson 56. Ferris took
14 wickets, Charlton 5, and in the second innings
Wales made four catches at the wickets. Griffon
and Jarvis got the wickets for South Australia.
Despite the assertion of Mr. John Portus that the
public were dissatisfied with the selection of
Bliuman and Walter Giffen these worthies with 73
and 55 were the only scorers in the first innings,
while Reedman 60, Gooden and Jarvis 33 did all
the work in the second.
Bona-Fide announcement. Highest cash price
given for all kinds of gent’s left off clothing.
Dress-suits for sale or hire. Letters pro] ptly
attended to by QUITTENTON BROS., 11l
Russell street. MELBOURNE. (New number,
163.)
The Lmdon & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
To darken grey hair.,—Lqckyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. (id. Everywhere.
Liver complaints.—Dr. King’s Dandelion
and Quinine Liver Pills; without mercury, are a
potent—English remedy ; remove all liver and
stomach complaints, biliousness, headache, sick-
ness, shoulder pains, heartburn, indigestion, con-
stipation. ?
* Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. C. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
Old-fashioned Jewellery modernised to perfection. De-
gas free. Daiims and Co., King-street Arcade.
OUR OWN INVESTIGATIONS'
From the DAILY NORTHERN TELEGRAPH.
Recent editorial comment by some of the most
influential papers in Great Britain, respecting the
value of an article which is extensively advertised,
has led us to make certain investigations on our
own behalf, in order that we might lay before our
readers facts which we have personally verified.
Advertisements are one thing, but voluntary
editorial endorsement of the value of an article is
quite another thing. This latter occurs so very
rarely that it becomes all the more important.
From the report below it will be observed that
we have confined our investigations wholly to
local people. The reports are from well-known
citizens, which must carry conviction to the minds
of every thinking man and woman.
Messrs. Jackson and Co., of 9, Regent’s Build-
ings, top of Penny-street, being among our leading
merchants, their opinion was first sought by us.
In answer to our inquiry Mr. Jackson states that
the article in question was one of the most staple.
Immense quantities were sold by him every
month, and the actual merit which it possessed
was undoubtedly tiie cause of its being one of the
leading articles of trade in Blackburn. # * *
Among these cases which Mr. Jackson related
was that of a well-known society lady (whose
name we are n t at liberty to publish), who had
been confined to her room for more than three
weeks by muscular rheumatism in the back, dur-
which time she was under the treatment of one of
our leading medical men ; but continued from the
first to grow worse. She was very much preju-
diced against advertised remedies, and although
repeatedly urged to try St. Jacobs oil, she persis-
tently refused. Her sister, unbeknown to her,
procured a bottle of the oil from Messrs Jackson.
The first application gave the lady relief, and
before the contents of one bottle was used she was
entirely free from pain. She felt so grateful that
she personally visited the store of Messrs. .Jack-
son, and told them the facts as above narrated,
and says that hereafter she shall advise all her
friends who have rheumatism to dismiss their
doctors and use St. Jacobs oil.
ADVANCE OF THE AGE
It is a frequent subject of conversation with
those amongst ns who can look backward 20 or 25
years with what leaps and bounds civilisation has
advanced in that time. The schoolboy and his
teacher, the artisan, the laborer, the mechanic, all
are different in habit from those of prciiois
decades. They are advancing in thought and
habit, in ambition and resources. Now, they
count time and opportunity. Now. they utilise
that punctuality is the key of success, and that to
attain such they must be equipped with reliable
time-pieces. Here, also, economy steps in dt umnd-
ing those “reliable time-pieces ’ at a low cost, at
prices within the reach of the masses. W here are
such to be found? Certainly mt in the Swiss
makeshifts which have so flooded the count iy. and
which to such marked degree have brought low-
cost watches into disrepute. Where, then, is the
desired article to be found ? In answer to tins wo
can point with pride and confidence to the
numbers of testimonials in favor of the Walt rl.ury
watches, which wc arc receiving by every mail, of
which the following may be taken as specimens ;
Writing from Maidenhead, near Tentert.chl,
under date 22nd November, list'd. Mr. John C,
Trelawney (confirming a previous testimonial
dated 30th July last) says, “1 beg leave to state
that my acquaintance with the Waterbary watch
extends over a period of about five years, during
which time T have found them to be excellent
timekeepers, and far more durable than the
average expensive lever. No five man, woman,
or youth, should be without one." Mr. E. Arnold,
of Louth, writes, under date 2(ith November, as
follows : “ I have found the Waterbury watches
to be strong and reliable, and for use in the bush
they cannot be equalled. Everyone up here that
uses a Waterbury says that they prefer it to any
other. The great feature of the Waterburys is
that they can be repaired so cheaply should any-
thing go wrong. v Throughout the length and
breadth of Australasia ; from Great Britain to
the United States-, Canada, South Africa, and
India, all vouch for the excellence of the Water-
bury watches. “Correct time for little looney
has become a proverb belonging justly and only
to the Waterbury watches.


Publications, &c.
You Only, O! Books, are Liberal and
Independent.
THE above saying was written by Richard
De Bury over six hundred years ago; and
in the 19th century, among the millions of books
published and various opinions expressed, how
true we feel it is. _ Solomon has also placed it on
record that in his day to the making of books
there was no end ; but what would the wisest of
all men say were he living now and could visit
DYMOCrS BOOK ARCADE,
428 George Street, Next Royal Hotel,
where half-a-million of books occupying 20 miles
of shelving, are always on view, FREE for the
inspection of all ?
Truly it is a great, a noble sight to see this great
home of literature ; books collected from all parts
of the world on every known subject. There you
are welcome to wander through the spacious aisles,
and gather knowledge at every step
Free of Chat go.
No officious Librarians to interrupt you.
This alone should be a great attraction for
teachers and others wishing to select books for
prize and presentation purposes.
50,000 Books Offered at Half-price.
BYMOCK’S BOOK ARC AD E,
428 George Street, next Royal Hotel.
In two weeks 342,526 citizens of Sydney have
visited this vast Book Emporium. Thousands of
books have been sold, happiness and comfort has
been sent to hundreds of homes, great minds have
been made greater, and Dymock is well pleased,
so all is well, and all is ready for the Xmas rush.
90 CASES OF NEW BOOKS
will be opened this week, including all the
Xmas Annuals and Holiday Books,
Making without doubt the grandest exhibition
ever seen in Australia,
Promenade Concert To-day, from 3 to 5.
Mechanical Toy will again work and delight all.
XMAS CARDS. XMAS CARDS.
Five van-loads to select from, from Is. to £5 each.
The Marvellous Packets arc Now Ready.
For five years these packets have commanded the
largest sale in Australia. Look at the Contents !
25 Beautiful Xmas and New Year’s Cards, post free, 9d.
50 Choice and Charming ditto ditto ditto, Is. 3d.
2s. 9d. is for a Specially Selected Packet, it is worth 10s.
ss. 6d. is suitable for a family, and is worth 20s.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(.Next Royal Hotel),
Books Bought and Exchanged. Libraries
Purchased.
Companies.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Paid-up, £100,300; Capital Subscribed, £150,000.
Head Office i Pitt Si Market Streets, Sydney.
Board of Directors;
Francis Abigail, Esq., M.P., Chairman; Ald. S. G. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassell, Esq., M.P. ; William Bull, Esq., J.P.;
Robt. Cunningham Esq.
GOULBURN BRANCH : AUBURN STREET,
C. H. Atkinson, Manager.
A dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, (the last) declared
on July 29, will be payable on and after the 14th August.
The Bank transacts all usual banking business in every
particular. Board days. Wednesday and Friday. Special
advantages granted to Commercial Clients. Overdrafts
granted against deposit of Deeds without mortgage.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
RODERICK M'NAMARA, General Manager.
THE WAY TO WEALTH.
The way to wealth is as plain as the way to market.
The majority of the wealthy men of Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane made their money by buying land in these
capital cities while it was low in price, and before these
cities were so large and populous as at present.
Western Australia^
is the coming colony. Her Capital City will become ,y!
a second Melbourne or Sydney.
If you want to make money, buy land
there now. It is a good spec.
GRAND BUILDING SITES AT PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA,
FROM £lO TO £5O.
TERMS, jrom £1 Deposit. Very easy payments.
NOTE.—The allotments offered are in picked posi-
tions, they have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed
good.
Write for Marked Plans to
The INTERCOLONIAL (Western Australian)
INVESTMENT COMPANY, Ltd.,
96 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Hotels.
LUKS’ VICTORIA HOTEL,
Auckland, N.Z.,
etill in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Sedlmayr’s Bavarian “Spaten,” “Export”
and “Tafei” Eager —SPECIALITY.
-g-ATOOMBA FAMILY HOTEL.
JOSEPH NIMMO
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters o be addressed “ Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Eaves and
other places of interest.
ť
m
*• r
- hotci
II
■
Royal Hotel] T. BBOWV, Proprietor. IRandLwick..
Specially adapted for Families. Trams Stop at Door.
Aaron s’ Jbtxcli an ge Hotel, Sydney
, iwata
1
1
I
I
1
V’
:
:
m
£OIBIO PHOTOiEMIt_C(hJJSiOC£rST.. SHUU«
Adjoining the Sydney Exchange.
-(")-
Mining, Financial and General Mercantile Intelligence
Posted several times DAILY in the Building 1 .
TELEGRAPH, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
-(")-
This Hotel has been thoroughly renovated and re-furnished, and is now unrivalled for comfort
and attention.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Limited), Proprietors.
THE
4 Plum 9
ŧ
THE
‘I 3
fTiklS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
I Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better tqan to try this particular brand.
t
ţ
Registered and sent post free to any part of the Australian Colonies.
AGENTS : CRAIG & AITKER, 680 George Street, Sydney.
JONES’ SEWING MACHINES
FOR THE BOOT AND TAILORING TRADES.
THE BEST MANUFACTURING MACHINES IN EXISTENCE.
Now Perfected, the New No. 3 and No. 4 Machines on an Entirely New System.
STOCK JUST LANDING.
F arleigH ; KTettlieim, & Ocx
TANNERS AND LEATHER MERCHANTS,
16 + YORK -s- t SYDNEY. '
Sole Agents for the above for New South Wales and Queensland.
( X )
ALSO Importers of Requisites for the BOOT MANUFACTURING TRADE in all Details, including MACHINERY,
IMPORTED LEATHERS, &c.; and of the following Special Lines: I’ccrlcss Gloss, Satin Polish, Nubian
■(lacking. Tanners’ Tools and Materials. US?'” Indents Executed on Favourable Terms
Medical.
or the Liquor Habit (In any form) POSITIVELY
and RAPIDLY CURED by administering
the world-renowned
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It can be given in a cup of ceffeo or tea, or in food, either
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of the patient, if
necessary; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or an
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates »o quietly and with such certainty that the
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware, his
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with full
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BEWARE of worthless imitations and plagiarisms of
our Advertisements. We have no Agents.
Note our Sole Address :
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 & 147 Collins St., MELBOURNE, Vio.
X
ROSES
m
X
&
X
&
I^LoTlsS
a
es^jt
wlhbmhh
ť
T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
(IsjftTpuro,"* non-gritty tooth-powder, and
warranted free froto acids or other ingredients which
destroy the epamel; it whitens the teeth, prevents and
wrests*decay,", strengthens, the gums, and gives a
pleasing fragrance to the breath.
*«tev
a soothing, hcaling v and emollient milk (or the' (ace
and hands, and is most cooling and refreshing to the
skin in hot climates ; it removes freckles, tan, sunburn,
roughness and redness of the skin, pimples, cutaneous
eruptions, &c., soothes and heals prickly heat, stings
,«f insects, eczema, burns, and all cutaneous irritation
more effectually than any other preparation, and pro-
duces soft fair skin, and a lovely delicate complexion ;
it is warranted harmless, and free from any lead or
poisonous ingredient's.
ROWLAND'S EUKONIA,a fragrant toilet,warranted free from
bismuth or metallic ingredients, which ruin the com
plexlon; in three tints—-white, cream, and rose. * Ael
'any*chemist or druggist- for, Rowland’s articles.
AOTION.
yfThe (extraordinary reputation of Rowland ’a Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer epurions imitations under the lure of being cheap;
the' principle on which each is prepared is -confined
solely to the knowledge ol A. Rowland & Sons, of 20,
Hatton London, end therefore it is highly
necessary th buy no Maaaasar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by lhem,tand_wh|ch.bnar. their
name in red ink on the wrappers."
IVTERVOTJS SUFFERERS, from secret 01
J3I other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
CONSULT the Eminent
Specialist,
Dr. SPEER, 29 York-st,.
Sydney.
PILLS (Guaranteed), 55., post free.
LADIES,
“ A Golden Shanty.”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
—BY—
“ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding’, 2s. 6d., post paid.
ALL AGENTS.


Shipping.
L L O Y D.
»r oRDDEUTSCHER
imperial german mail.
Passengers are carried according to the requirements of
the English Passenger Acts of 1855 and 1803.
MONTHLY LINE OF DIRECT STEAMERS
from
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, and ADELAIDE,
to SOUTHAMPTON, ANTWERP, and BREMEN, via
COLOMBO, Aden, Suez, and Genoa,
taking passengers for London,
connecting from PORT SAID by DIRECT MAIL and
PASSENGER LINE to BRINDISI,
will be despatched as follows (it practicable)
And thereafter every four weeks.
PASSAGE MONEY from SYDNEY,
£l4 to £57 10s.
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACIIEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
Steamers.
OCEANIEN
SALAZIE
Commander.
Poydenot
Fiaschi ..
Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
atlla.m. bourne4 p.m
Jan. 25, 1891 Jan. 28, 1891
■February 25 February 28
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.8.-Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
FREEHOLD INVESTMENT
and DEPOSIT BANK,
173 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Nearly opposite Australian Star Office).
Fixed Deposits received in any sura, and interest
payable quarterly, as under, viz.:—-
9 per cent.
8J per cent.
6 months 8 per cent.
3 months 6 per cent.
Depositors for 2 and 3 years receive 10 percent., and
in addition a bonus of 1 per cent, per annum.
Remittances receivable by cheque and deposit
receipt forwarded.
Promissory Notes Discounted on deposit deeds
without delay.
Prompt Advances made on Land and Freehold
Property, in town or country.
All correspondence immediately replied to.
EDWD. A. MORGAN, Secretary.
JUST THE THING FOR HAPPY CHRISTMAS!
“PRIMROSE’S”
Christmas and New Year Competition
Name the twelve most suitable presents for Christmas
or New Year from a gentleman to a lady.
Ist prize—Handsome Marble Timepiece, value£s.
2nd ~ Gold Brooch and Earrings, value £3 10s.
3rd ~ Gent.’s Silver Watch, value £2 ss.
4th ~ Pictorial History of the World, value £llos.
sth ~ Strong Leather Portmanteau, value 15/6.
One Guess, 1/-; Three Guesses, 2/-. Stamps. Competi-
tion closes 3rd January ; results published 6th January.
“ PRIMROSE.”
Park-street P. 0., Sydney.
rfITKIHSOH'S />
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKIN SON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fee Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & B. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
.. Trade Mark— “ White Hose” on -‘Golden .
Bby Lyre," with Address in lull.
mm
"■i’
Wm>
vmm
40,000 in Use. Kecord, I*o words per in Unite.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as last as
with a pen, and twice'as fast in a month. Kiftecnoarbon
copies may be struck at one time. Agents—SYDrsUY :
J. E Cunningham, Official Shorthand Writer, Lyndhurst
Chambers, Elizabeth-st.; MELBOURNE: C. S. Cunning-
ham, Shorthand Writer, A.W.F. Buildings, Collins-st.;
BRISBANE: Webster & Co., Mary-st.; ADELAIDE: E.
S. Wigg & Son, Ruridlo-st. • J. Witheby
Shopping by Post
THE CELEBRATED
ORIENT CLOTHING
FOR ''
Boys’ and Men’s
Summer Wear
First Quality, Men’s Tweed Suits - 355.
Extra Quality, do. do* 40s.
Special Quality do. 50s«
Send for Samples.
SEND FOR A
t
POST FREE.
All Parents should try the ORIENT
CLOTHING for tlieir Boys’
School and Best
Wear.
GEORGE STREET,
Opposite G.P.O.
IST IE "'ST.
DAVID JONES & CO.
ORIENT CLOTHIERS
TATTERSALL’S
|lB9l -MONSTER TATTERSALL’S CUP-189lj
xo.ooo yXO each \ 10,000
XXO EXTRA XXO
REGISTER YOUR LETTERS and ADDRESS “ TATTERSALL,”
C/o GEORGE ADAMS, “ TatteraallV’ Sydney, N.S.W.
>th*delJi
5k
Rezd.
By Special Appointment to H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES.
Any IMrect
PURE LINENS
AND
Damask Table Linen
FROM
The Oldest Establishment four Isinen m the North of Ireland.
superior Quality.—immense saving.
“ The celebrated Damask Table Linen from the Royal Manufactory, Ardoync standsunrivalled.
Our Silk and Linen Tea Cloths and Dinner Table Centres are the lichest things yet produced. Openvvork and Fancy
CAMBRICS.
Telegrams,
Muror, Belfast.
1 MURPHY & ORR, Belfast, Ireland.
FREE LESSONS GIVEN TO PURCHASERS
LICHTNER & CO.’S APPARATUS.
V*V>
vvy *
% — !
5 XV-
■ \
21/
DARK ROOM FITTED WITH EVERY CONVENIENCE
AT THE DISPOSAL OF AMATEURS.
“Quick, Mary, he must know we’re only jist married. He’s ’idin’ ’is ’ead to give us a chance.”
SEND FOR LIST _ OF AMATEUR OUTFITS.
lichtner & CO.
SYDNEY 318 George Street. BRISBANE 9 Hayes’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street.
Medical.
Df A. PATERSON!
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.E.0.5., Enq.,
157
j ELIZABETH STREET, \
\ Sydney. I
157
Dr, PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
P H RON IC, j^ERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
a ?ss a
No medical man advertising in these.“Sf endnen
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his . the remdl
ward treatment, has naturally, gained foi him the reputa
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascei*
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Sufferii g from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul month costiveness, palm-
SSon’, staling mid pain, in the ear. tug tog,
snecks before the eyes, giddiness, weakenea
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vT^or' sterility, premature decay, stricture nervons-
ness groundless fears, bashfulness lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
1 consulting him, since he has, by long experience
I nn( i thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
I covered the safest treatment for their permanent
1 cure Persons residing at a distance may be treated
1 at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear . top-
: tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi
i oinea will he forwarded to them.
9r fid he will forward his book on the MALE
Generative Function in Health and Disease,
or of Is., his book on ‘‘ Nervous Debility.
! Dr. Alexi Paterson,
1 157 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney,
jtgf Consultation Free.
o^ eBY F/, o^
*.O
ft %f %<p>
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
i loxoti s opoponax
a frangipanni psidium
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
>a
*°nd Street
Beware of imitations: The genuine is signed
TRADE MARK .—MTJ.SK DKKB
ţ
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
OF
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Tlip Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
Who Has Cured
More Oases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can he treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN CERTIFICATE.— One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, 1888.
To 11. F. Kugelmann, Esq.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. I consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, blit I became worse everyday, wasting away until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. I agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three months I was taken bad one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as-ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Peter Smythe, J.P.
OTTCF.-W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.


ť
Registered
ŧ
.DENMARK~
Mm
&
%
\
%
\
I
&
%
%
t
I
s
T
0
R
E
s
I
T
#
I
I
I
T
V
\}lo
0*
✓
0"
ţ
#
,#
m
mmm
Hesisbb
ITALIIY
A Guaranteed Cure
lor Nervous Debility and
Lost Vitality.
225. Od. per Course,
Smaller Box ss. 6d.
Posted - 23/6 and 6/-
ť
G-exiuixxe Testimonials.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that your
remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease, after many doctors
hael failed. - JOHN- REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, the celebrated Danish Herbalist.—Dear
Benefactor, —I have much pleasure to inform the public that your
remedies cured my wife of an internal complaint of a very serious
nature, after all (he doctors had given her up.—ARCHIBALD
MACFARLANE, Eden Cottage, Barney-street, Armidalc.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. D;ar
Sir, —f hereby thank you for the great cure your remedies performed
on me for a very complicated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous Debility.—THOS.
MUDIMAN. Merchant Tailor, King Street, Newtown.
To HERR HASSMUSSEN, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and Bene-
facto",- It gives me great pleasure to testify to your wonderful skill
in the treatment of Disease. Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up, and although it is four years
since, lam as well as ever. I shall recommend your remedies to all.—
Yours, gratefully, A. RAMSDEN, Great Western Coffee Palace, Castle-
reagb-street, Sydney.
To HERR RASSMUSSEN, Specialist in Nervous Diseases. Dear
Sir, —I hereby certify that I have been under your skilful treatment
for a very obstinate case of nervous debility, and that your remedies
cured me, one course of your Vitality Pdls being sufficient.—D.
M'NEILU, Hornsby Junction, N.S.W.
w/fm
m
Opinions of tlie Press.
It is a well-known fact that HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Celebrated
Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures during the past few
years, as his numerous testimonials will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—We have been shown some excellent Testi-
monials of the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist. — Australian Star.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has now been established in the colonies
for 10 years. —Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
HERR RASSMUSSEN has become a celebrity in the curing of all
diseases of the nervous system. His name has become a wonder
throughout the Southern Hemisphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures. —Balmain Leader, May 12,1858.
HERR RASSMUSSEN.—The remarkable cures which he has e lected
are pretty generally known.— Balmain Observer, April 28, 188 S.
We are perpetually receiving letters »rom HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
cured patients requesting ns to make known to the public I'm wonder-
ful medical skill tins remarkable man possesses, and he has just been
presented with a Gold Medal from several of his cured patients.
—Sydney Weekly News, May 2U, 1537.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist, has shown us some
highly < omplimentary testimonials, which he has received, certifying
to a number of important, cures effected by his remedies. Sydney
Evening News, March 7. 1890.
Herr sen’s ZOCorltsajl -fc-K.etEia.e2 dies.- —(REG I ST ER El>.)
DENMARK VITALITY PlLLS.—Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth and Despondency. Price, 225. Gd. per full course ; small box, os. (id.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PlLLS.— Guaranteed to cure all complaints peculiar to Females, Irregularities, and eradicates complaints which cause barrenness.
Price, 225. 6d. per course ; small box, ss. bd. Posted, 235. Gd. and Gs.
DENMARK LOCK CURE PlLLS.—Guaranteed to Cure all diseases of the blood, discharges, sores, and strictures. Price, 22/6 per course ; small box, 5/0. Posted, 23/0 and 0;'-
DENMARK LIVER and KIDNEY PILLS. —Excellent to,take with the above Pills for Costivencss, and guaranteed (o cure Dyspeps'a, Indigestion, Wind, Heartburn, and all
complaints peculiar to the Liver and Kidneys. Is. and 2s. Od. per box. Posted, Is. 01. and ;!s.
DENMARK HAIR and SKIN BEAUTIFIER.— Guaranteed to cure all Affections of the Skin, and prevents the* Hair from turning giey. Excellent for the complexion.
2s. Cd. per packet. Posted, 3s.
All the above remedies are made of PURE HERBS only, and are forwarded unobserved. A valuable treatise on Nervous Debility, Private Complaints, and Barrenness,
sent free, on receipt of Gd stamped addressed envelope. Consultation by pest, free. Patients’ blood and livin'', when sent by pest, are examined with the aid of the Microscope.
Address : - 11 K IIH BASSMUSSEN, the Danish Herbalist .
Box 208, General Post Office, Sydney.
N.B. —All correspondence strictly confidential. Register all letters containing money.
kw All the above Remedies may also bo obtained personally at 58 ROYAL ARCADE, PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ŧ
%
%
%
t
%
tf.
y-
'l
&
%
ţ
FI
£
s
I
0
R
E
«»
5
u
111
T
V
i
r
k
L
I
f
If
00
0
$
w
ť
'JPM
#
-'O -
ŧ
Residues .
ITALfTY
A Guaranteed Cure
for Nervous Debility anf
Lost Vitality.
225. (id. per Couise.
Smaller Box ss. (Id.
Hosted - 23/6 and 6/
.A. 0031. U SIN' ’
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and Verse, by “ Bulletin ” A inters.
The Brightest, Best and most Original Skilling Book ever published in this country.
—— To be obtained from all Booksellers.
H.
X6X
P. GREGORY & GO.
ENGINEERS
■ - .A-Icstd -
J General Machinery Merchants
Clarence-st., Sz c3bt Sz :B:rist3Et:n.e,
HAVE LAKOE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &o.:—
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER CRUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.'S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GIOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EPSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., Ac.
ctairu
X'BSiajvaq.Tiao a^jogga/w
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEVANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
and EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS.
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDBAULIC NOZZLES A DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
Ac., A*c.
STEAM ENGINES —Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined, from-two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
Engines. Boiler Feed Injectors. ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing Machines, &c.
FAIRBANKS'S Scales and Weighbridges. Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease, Belting, Emery Wheels,
Sight Feed Lubricators. Pickering Engine Governors. UpT Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
Tl|e London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
cr port in N fi Wales,
t
Packed in
20-lb. and ■lO-lb. Chests.
Price:
1/6, 1/5), 2/-, & 2/G per lb.
Write to us for
Samples, Post Free


Dnn/C
ţ
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
H
m
<
YA
w,.
m.
a
u
%
w,
mmm
%
m
vs.
mi.
m
m
&h
CncO^
%
W
%
‘ ‘ Look up the word ‘ ephemeride* * in the
‘ Cyclopaedia,’ ” said a Sydney journalist to hi* son,
who was intended to be his successor, “ and write
it down for me.” “It don’t want no lookm up,
that don’t, it means” “Write it down man,
write it, and don’t talk so much.” And he wrote :
“ It’s a sort of a spanitch Fly and is used for
makin’ hare-Oil.” And when the old man picked
up the memo and read it he said : “That boy will
never be any good in a newspaper office, for all
he’s so mighty proud of calling himself a journalist
already. D n him, it’s cantharides he has
hunted up instead of what I asked him.” Fact,
you bet.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Ex-Parson Gardiner waxes really interest-
ing. He is paying ten shillings an inch for read-
ing-matter advts. in Sydney E. News to say that
his divorced wife is still dear to him and that
“ during the two or three weeks before I left Syd-
ney I went on my knees, I am sure, 50 times
pleading for pardon for the sake of Christ and the
Gospel, and for the future of my little children ;
but without avail. In saying this Ido not wish
to throw the slightest reflection on Mrs. Gardiner.
She is good and true, as I have always said ; but
she has had very bad advisers around her.” All
this strikes people (who are wondering what has
become of the other girl) as a most barefaced
piece of public courting. However, “once court,
twice shy ’’—probably.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
There can be nothing “cronk” enough about
those spelling-contests to justify the bitter tears in
process of being shed over the results. “If you don’t
spekilate you can’t accoomilate ” is the text of
the man with the monkey and the coloured maroles
on the “Never-Never” racecourse. But if you
speculate five shillings and only get a half-crown
dividend, why write to the papers and suggest a
swindle? There is some certain comfort m the
half-crown, and a heap more suggested in the
offered privilege of applying to the manager of an
advertising bureau for a guarantee of good faith.
And any man that wants more than this is a
glutton, and is not gifted with the true spirit of
commercial enterprise. He is also one of the
worst kind of asses for trying to learn to spell at
his own expense, when he might lay up his treasure
beyond the reach of nameless dictionary-robbers
who live in post-office boxes.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers the mind and body.
Sydney Taiwhanga, the well-known Maori
M.8.R., died on the East Coast on the evening
of his re-election to the House of Bepresentatives
by a very large majority over his opponent. Sydney
was an original as well as an aboriginal, and
although much abused by the pakehas he « as very
popular with the Maoris, whose interests he had
really at heart. He was a puny and insignificant-
looking specimen of the Maori race, but that did
not prevent him from being a regular Brigham
Young in his own small way. He has had several
European wives in his time, and had a new one
with him on his electioneering campaign. Honey-
mooning and electioneering together killed him—
he should have taken them up one at a time.
When we first met Taiwhanga, many years ago,
he was a surveyor’s assistant m his native country.
Afterwards he visited England on a native-land
mission, and when returning via Sydney he, on
the strength of old acquaintance, looked us up at
Thb Bcllstot ottm, tmA unto m »n Mcount
of bu ftdrentures f«r more oomtwe&tennT*
and atraigntforwMd than that vouohsased to toe
outside world. Amongst other things, he told us
all about his adventures with the lady saints of
Exater-hall circles, and laughed until the tears
ran down his dusky cheeks as ho described how
effectually he had humbugged Miss Tait, daughter
of the Archbishop of Canterbury, by “gammoning
to be pious.”
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no other.
Matvieff, superintendent of Queensland
telegraph-service, has the rare gift of being able
to add the three columns, pounds, shillings and
pence, simultaneously, without the slightest
difficulty.
Everybodynow-a-days drinks Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The late Mr. Boehm’s heavy piece of
statuary, “The Bull and Headsman,” is still a
source of irritation to the artistic eye in Mel-
bourne National Gallery. The supports, which,
on the sculptor’s authority, were to be cut away
directly his work had been safely landed, remain
under the bull’s belly and knee, consequently the
beast is robbed of all suggestion of movement,
and the herdsman, represented as leading him
along, ought to be prosecuted for cruelty.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Judge Paul (Q.)holds views regarding crime
which shock the Conservative mind. Thus, when
he delivers the ante-sentence homily to the
burglar, the forger, or the horse-thief, he says:
“ I am sorry for you because I know you cannot
help it; it is a part of your nature for you to do
these things. Nevertheless, society must be pro-
tected, and, therefore, it is my duty,” &c., &c.
Mr. Paul has extended the privileges of the Eirst
Offenders’ Probation Act to four times as many
prisoners as any other judge. Even if hardened
offenders when sent to gaol by Judge Paul do not
leave the world with a full determination to
return better men, they go to prison without
cursing for his apparent malice and cruelty the
judge who sentenced them, which is at least some-
thing.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
As showing the growth of the Californian
wine industry, we out the following from a ’Frisco
paper
Mr. W. B. Bourn enjoys the distinction of owning the
best, most extensive, and costly wine-house in the world.
Ii is three stories in height, made of hewn stone, covered
with a roof of slate, nearly 500 feet in length, 90 feet in
breadth, with extensive tunnels penetrating the adjacent
hill. Mr. Bourn will have, when finished at an expense of
one million of dollars, a place for storing and treating-
more millions of gallons of wine than we dare to say.
The future of wines in our Stite will, if they are properly
handled, make this one of the richest States in the Union,
and Will equally contribute to advance the morals and
character, the industries, habits, and economies, of its
working class. If half the effort expended in politics and
t emperance reform were devoted to the encouragement of
the small vine-growers, it would be of infinitely more
value than that accomplished by the prohibition agita-
tion. If our priests and preachers, our good men and
first-class citizens, would make a success: ul effort to place
good, cheap wine on the table of the labourer, it would
wreck the saloons and destroy the breweries sooner than
any plan that could be adopted. If every working man
in our State who could be excused from the mechanical
industries of the towns, could have his dwelling upon a
small tract of vine and raisin lands, or upon a small fruit
farm, for the production of olives, nuts, citrons, and
other fruits, we'should have a community par-excellence,
at the head in morals, and in the most advanced position
in wealth and material prosperity.
President Smith.
•Tan Ibat Iha htolu. Alftrad Unb a Sjn&wy,
tmtiy bwagbft tbonl tba rtrik*. u U haaw iU
labour bodies intended to poailpone it until tae
height of the wool-season, which would h*Te
placed the employers in a much worse position.
Mr. Lamb, therefore, hastened on the result.
Wolfe’s Schnapps for lowness of spirits.
A Russian has produced a gun which will
send a bullet through ten men standing in a row.
This is ingenious, no doubt, but considering that
the men who stand in a row are the poor devils
who fight for twopence a week, while the Emperor
who sends them out is generally hidden under a
bed somewhere, a boomerang would probably get
at the root of the matter a great deal faster.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should be in every house.
“While Mr. Kisch was addressing the
judge at the Brompton County Court on Wednes-
day the ceiling fell in. Fiat justitia mat ceiling,”
says London Hawk. History repeats itself.
Thirty years ago the late Mr. Broad hurst, Q.C.,
said the very same thing under similar cir-
cumstances at Sydney, and eight years ago the
story was related in The Bulletin.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—look for £1 orders.
The British army contains 57,000 men
under sft. 6in. The proportion of men whose
chests are under 37in. in girth is 657 per 1000.
That does not prove so much that the race is
deteriorating as that the army is more and more
becoming a refuge for the incapable and physically
inferior.
One of Duncan Gillies’ parliamentary
friends has taken the opportunity to inform
Speaker Davies, in the usual official way, that
Duncan “has no feeling, and is too cold and cal-
culating to bleed, even if you stick a pin into him,
The saokbut, harp, dulcimer, and all kinds of
music, if you please :
In Scotland, the other day, • colliery
manager killed a man through negligence and
veekleae disregard of the precautions required fey
law, and he was fined one shilling. The next
ease was that of two men who had killed a rabbit,
also contrary to law. They were hned two
guineas each. Evidently it takes 84 men to equal
one rabbit in the grand old mother country.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
The conflagration of the scaffolds intended
for fireworks for the celebration of the marriage
of Louis the Sixteenth is historic. Amid the dis-
tracted multitude pressing on every side, trampled
under the horses’ feet, precipitated into the ditches
of the Rue Royale and the square, was a young
man, with a girl with whom he was in love. She
was beautiful; their attachment had lasted several
years ; pecuniary causes had delayed their union ;
but the following day they were to be married.
For a long time the lover, protecting his betrothed,
keeping her behind him, covering her with his
own person, sustained her strength and courage.
But the tumult, the cries, the terror and peril
every moment increased. “I am sinking,” she
said ; “my strength fails. I can go no further. ’
“There is yet a way,” cried the lover in despair;
“ get on my shoulders.” He feels that his advice
has been followed, and the hope of saving her
whom he loves redoubles his ardour and strength.
He resists the most violent concussions; with ms
arms firmly extended before his breast, he with
difficulty forces his way through the crowd; at
length he clears it. Arrived at one of the ex-
tremities of the place, having set down his
precious burden, faltering, exhausted, fatigued to
death, but intoxicated with joy, he turns round.
It was a different person ! Another, more active,
had taken advantage of his recommendation. His
beloved was no more !—Ex.
If out'of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps.
London Echo comments on Major-
General Bland-Strange’s statement that “ while
The Bulletin calls Gordon “a sainted nigger-
butcher,” on the other hand “ the people of Mel-
bourne raise a statue to this butcher. Th e
people of Melbourne did nothing of the kind ; the
Melbourne Argus raised the statue. Any news-
paper with a circulation of over seven copies a
week can raise a statue to anybody in or out of
Sheol. The Bulletin has seen an effigy raised in
Australia by good churchmen to a man who, now
that he is properly dead, is chiefly remembered by
his shameless seductions. And, for a wager, The
Bulletin will undertake, within eighteen months,
to raise by public subscription the necessary funds
for a statue to Judas Iscariot, George the Fourth,
or Thomas Griffiths Wainwright.
Amusement of a profitable nature. Ladies,
make vour own dresses by procuring one of our
dress stands ; they are indispensable for altering,
trimming, and re-arranging dresses. They are, in
fact, a household necessity. We make them to
fold up so as to go in trunks. Write for parti-
culars to Eastway Brothers, Dress Stand Makers,
411, George-street, Sydney.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
The United States is a nation of traders. Two-
thirds of the business men of the Republic use
Esterbrook’s “Falcon” Pen. Samples free at
all Stationers.
Here’s a little point that one can
Settle very soon indeed ;
If you drive a nail in Duncan,
Will that crafty cherub bleed ?
If you thrust a long “ pig-sticker ”
Right through his immortal toe,
Does a ruddy-tinted liquor
From that politician flow ?
If a persevering looby
Bored a hole in Duncan’s face.
Would —what boxers call —the “ ruby ’
Trickle from the open place ?
Is he troubled like the poet
When he sits upon a pin?
And, in shaving, does he show it
If he cuts his sallow chin ?
Could we get a drop of gore from
Duncan Gillies in a week,
If a pound of flesh we tore from
His impassive, chilly cheek ?
No, by Jove ! we swear it kneeling—
To next biz’ness let us pass ;
Duncan has no kind of feeling,
And his “ blood ” is molten brass.
One might wipe him out for ever
(Though it were a sinful deed),
But no truthful man can ever
Say he shed the old ’un’s bleed.


A fair beautiful skin.—Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like b'ooro of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. 6d. tablets. Every-
where.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Go. one trial,
they guarantee satisfaction.
Goleiiane and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypti
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Loze- >_s. Try them.
Ladies’ Silver Watches, S6s. Dahms & Co., King-street
Arcade.
How to Grow Bioh. —Invest in land at Perth,
W. A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
1 dmited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms&Co., King-st. Arcade.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Tea in 201 b. and 401 b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
Reliable Watch Repairs. Dahms & Co., King-st. Arcade
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Give the London and Sydney Tea 00. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.
ss-H >■
i *
m
f=ZSSLt
SJ*f*fs
g§§gg
n
s&\*g
: -
miiiiiiiil
i\\\ mmssu/'/
mmm
S£==S&{/.
wm
mm
I
1
V#
.'V
t
Notice to Artistic and Literary Contributors
Strictly Original matter contributed to The Bulletin
will he paid for. The Editor will he glad to receive and
consider contributions as under
1. Original humorous or political matter, illustrated or
otherwise. (Drawings must he made in clean lines
of Indian ink on while paper or Bristol-hoard.)
2. Unpublished anecdotes of living celebrities, or people
who ought to be celebrated.
3. Humorous poems (from eight to forty-eight lines pre-
ferred ).
h. Serious poems, of similar or greater length, especiall%
those suitable for pictorial illustration.
5. Short Australian or other stories, up to, say, 3000
wprds. About half that length, or even less, will
be preferred.
All Contributions must be Written Legibly, on One
Side Only of the paper, and folded, not rolled. '1 he
name and address of the writer must appear, in all
cases, on the MS. itself, and not mereh on an accompany-
ing letter or paper. The Proprietors do not hold them-
selves responsible for Dejected Contributions; but, if
accompanied by a stamped and addressed envelope or
wrapper, every effort xvill be made to return them.
The Editor does nut undertake to enter into any
correspondence respecting rejected Manuscripts.
The Queensland shearers who refused to
work unless provided with proper shears were
threatened with forfeiture of wages and imprison-
ment and taken to court at St. George, 75 miles
distant. There the case lapsed, and the men were
told that if they went back to the shed they might
be paid. Considering that their case had been
misrepresented in the columns of the St. George
Standard they burnt the editor in effigy after
parading the streets.
The Christmas Bulletin of 1890 was
(we speak of it in the past-tense because not a
single copy remains on the publisher’s hands for
sale), in point of number the biggest paper ever
issued in Australasia. It was published at the
paper’s usual price, sixpence, and consisted ex-
clusively of original paid-for literary matter and
original paid-for pictures, and, we may add,
specially-contributed and smartly-paid-for adver-
tisements. It was no mere ghastly jumble of
cheap screed, ‘ ‘ cabbaged ” engravings, scissored
tales and general resurrection. Guess, gentle
public, whom we are here assassinating in so
cowardly a manner ?
God save Australia!—from the Australians
for when they get hold of pen and ink and com-
mence to write about their country, they resemble
Allah when he created the camel. Mr. J. F.
Hogan has written a novel called “The Lost
Explorer,” in which he is really very rough on
that ill-used ghost, Leichhardt. Under the dis-
guise of Louis Louvain, he credits the poor old
boy with a son and marries him to a black gin.
Apparently Mr. Hogan is under the impression
that “ Sturt’s Stony Desert” is still an unoccupied
waste, so he locates his lost explorer there, and
his descriptions are about as unreal as the greenest
new-chum’s could be. “ Every prospect of another
Brickfielder,” cries one of the characters, and a
foot-note informs us that “Brickfielder ” (a mere
local old-Sydney term) “is a common expression
in Australia for an exceptionally sultry day.”
Thanks, Mr. Hogan. The party cross a land
where “the volcanic forces of the Australian
interior seemed to nave literally played in the
distant past, for there was a certain grim humour
in the multiplicity of fantastic forms that the
leviathan rocks had been compelled to assume in
their helpless molten state.’ (Pass the bottle.)
Then, although in the tropics, they witness a
grand display of the Aurora Australis. According
to Hogan, the natives chop their shields out of “the
hard wood of the iron-bark tree,” although most
people suppose they cut them out of the soft,
pithy wood of the coral or similar trees. Finally,
by means of constantly shouting “ Coo-e-e ” to one
another they find L.L. in captivity amongst a
tribe of half-civilised blacks at the foot of an
active volcano, and they rescue him in an Allen
Quartermain manner. This portion of the yarn
seems to have been suggested by a tale contri-
buted to the Queenslander, a year or so ago,
called “ The Burning Mountain of the Interior,”
by Ernest Favene. On the whole, we think Mr.
Hogan might have stuck to “the Australian in
London,” of which he evidently knows most, and
given old L.L. a spell. The Australians in London
don’t know much about Australia. It is only one
out of fifty of them who haven’t lived all their
lives in Melbourne or Sydney, and thus become
mere cockneys before they left Australia’s shores.
There have been two cases in Melbourne,
within the last few days, of men’s lives being
almost sworn away by worthless women. In one
there had been an adjournment, and a police-
man, with a full knowledge of the prosecutrix, as
an abandonnee, accidentally saw the newspaper
report, came forward, and extricated an innocent
man. In the other case there has been a public
howl over a poor girl being outraged, and a cold
douche follows on her being arrested helplessly
drank with a muddled male companion. The
present writer has seen at leant fifteen women
give perjured evidence as to criminal assaults,
and gain either by their judicious hysterics or
their calm, modest dignity an enormous amount
of sympathy. One delightful instance of this
was in New Zealand a few years ago, when a
rich man’s handsome wife, who appeared to have
really been caught by her wooden-headed old hus-
band in flagrante delicto, sought, for the purpose
of clearing her character, to establish a capital
charge against her particular friend, a bank-clerk.
It was a charming study of human nature. We
happened to know what the people in court did not
know—that a female relative of the much-injured
prosecutrix had basely handed over to the defence
a number of compromising letters addressed to
her by the lady whose virtue had been so brutally
assailed, and so were able to discount and snigger
at her woeful story as it went along. But how
symmetrically, how deliciously, in what a lady-
like style, that woman of good position lied!
Almost arvone would have believed her. Poor,
dear old Judge Gillies took it all in, and up to
the very last gasp tried to pot the prisoner at the
bar—but unsuccessfully, even though the Crown
had challenged every juror who wasn't old awi
married.
Writes A. M. Moore in the Hawk ;
I observe that the late Lord Beaconsfleld is claimed as a
Jew. Heine is claimed as an Israelite, and so are Men-
delssohn (the musician), Sarah Bernhardt and Augustus
Harris. Disraeli was most certainly horn, of Jewish
parents, but he was no more a Jew than Mr. Spurgeon is.
He was baptized at the age of thirteen under the auspices
of Samuel Rogers, the hanker-poet, and expressed a devo-
tion to the Protestant Church, under the aegis of which
he lived, died, and was buried. Heine was certainly
born a Jew, but was an out-and-out; atheist, and
laughed at all forms of religious belief, the Jewish
more particularly. Mendelssohn’s grandfather was a
Jew, the renowned Moses of that ilk, hut Felix Bartholdy
knew as much about Judaism as the Nelson Column. The
divine Sarah was born of Jewish parents, and was so proud
of her Judaic connections that she joined the Roman
Catholic Church ; while Augustus Harris has not a drop
of Jewish blood in his veins. I admire my Jewish friends
exceedingly, but they are rather too prone to claim all
our clever people. It seems to me, you know, that
directly a Jew achieves a certain eminence he displays a
considerable desire to get out of the fold. When Baron
Henry de Worms got into the Ministry he immediately
resigned the presidentship of the Anglo-Jewish Associa-
tion, and he never now appears at any communal gather-
ing.
What shallow nonsense! No man can slip
off his skin. It is the Jew’s blood and not
his racial religion which gives him his special
abilities. When those who are proud of the
typical genius of the Jewish race or of the special
abilities of any particular Hebrew say So-and-So
is or was “a Jew,” they mean that he or she is or
was of Jewish blood. The Jew is too intelligent
to adhere to dogma once you educate him; he
gets rid of the superstitions of his fathers far more
quickly and effectually than that gorgeous egotist,
Disgustus M. Moore, gets rid of his miser-
able prejudices. Disraeli was caught young, but
the baptismal water of the respectable Anglican
Church and the magnificent aegis of banker Rogers
did not spoil his Jewish keenness nor rob him of
his ricli Oriental imagination. The fact that
Heine was an Atheist (like a large per-centage of
the great men who are ticketed “ Christians ” by
the clergy, who christen them when they lie help-
less in the nurse’s arms, marry them when 'they
are helpless in the arms of a woman, and bury
them " hen they lie helpless in the arms of death—
and who hardly ever see them at any other time)
does not alter the fact that he was a pure-blooded
Jew ; Felix Bartholdy’s mother was a Jewess ;
Sara Bernhardt is none the less a Jewess because
she has become a Roman Catholic than Karl Marx
or Lassalle were the less Jews because political
economists and agnostics. It is quite true that
-lews often abandon their traditional religion
when they become somebodies, just as they aban-
don their ancient names when they become some-
bodies, and just as Mr. Augustus M. Moore
abandons certain of his former friends because
he happens to have got a leg in with a cheap and
nasty section of the alleged British aristocracy.
Like Mr. Disgustus M. Moore, the Jews wish
to be in the fashion. The man who should
have been Mr. Arthur Solomon becomes Sir
Arthur Sullivan. Mr. Frederick Cohen becomes
Mr. Frederick Cowen, just as Mr. Smith becomes
Mr. Smythe, and Mr. J. Bug becomes Mr. Nor-
folk Howard. Marcus Clarke once said: “If
your name is Cohen call yourself Colquhoun and
start a Berkshire-sausage manufactory.”
FREETRADE OR PROTECTION
Some vote Protection, some Freetrade,
As best for this young country’s weal.
But ask they rath or blushing maid,
And each will answer— Pemell’s Meal !
As best, because it has been tried,
There’s nothing half so good beside.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap, I wean.
Many in and out of the city will be pleased to
know that Creelman and Co., photographers in
the Sydney Arcade, have reduced their charges
for photographs. Cabinets now 15s. per dozen.
The Shannon File and Transfer Oases are
indispensable to the modern business or profes-
sional office. They pay their cost in a week in
time and temper saved. W. M. Maclaedy, 319
George-street, Sydney.
To overcome weakness. —Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. Bottles, 2s. fid. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
We notice with pleasure that the Equitable
Mortgage, Discount, and Deposit Bank, of 4
Moore-street, Sydney, has recently been incor-
porated, and is now opened for business. This
bank has been formed for the purpose of assisting
those who may at any time be in pecuniary diffi-
culties and wish to avoid paying the excessive in-
terest which is too often charged. The bank has
secured the able services of Mr. Henry A. Birk-
myre, which should be a guarantee that clients will
be fairly dealt with. In these days of extortion, the
above institution should about fill a long-felt
want.*
HOW TO GET RICH.
Send your sons to College, have them all
graduate as Doctors; then have their name en-
graved on a brass plate, placed outside of a door
in College-street.
First Patient: “ Doctor, I was recommended
to your office as one who understood your busi-
ness.” Doctor (smiling): “Let me see your
tongue. Hum ; appetite good?” “ First-class.”
“Ingestion all right?” “Yes. Digested Jack
Want’s Sunday Bill, and one of O’Connor’s Pill-
her-boxes last night. ” ‘ ‘ Good. Are you troubled
with sleeplessness?” “Never; I am a Member
of Parliament.” “ Great Scott, what an affliction !
Take this prescription at once, you can obtain it
at any first-class hotel in Sydney : Sarsaparilla
and Ironwater, or St. Louis Lager Beer—both
grand tonics,”*
The Choicest Jewellery. Dahms & Co., King-sk Arcade
Perfection with Simplicity disttugmshea the
Shannon Letter and Bill File. No folding;
all papers open flat. No endorsing; always in
order of date and alphabet. No indexing ; papers
self-indexed. Disarrangement or loss impossible.
W. M. Maolahdt, 319 Georgre-stree* Sydney.


Medical.
m
mm,
&
\ I \EUREKA \ V
ELECTRIC BELT
®STf nsa&sN''
i'
\5
m
It
If-S'&SLS
Z\-
, .....
A NEVER FAILING CUBE FOR ALE.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
inwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt,will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all •weakness caused by indiscretion. 1 ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. . Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear tlngi afiy other Belt.
A Book' illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until thev have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. i»
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
VIGOR
FOR MEN.
Los. of Nenre Fora*,
.Debility mid Decay.
NDISH
taly os perfectly regemed 6y the 0-A."V
f(c
6d..
TREATMENT.
One
ox, 12s
Full Course, £l. TreniUe Mini eeolca, 4 St&mpe.
lddre«<rTbO CAVENDISH LABORATORY.
6« BUSSSIA STREET, MELBOURNE. Via
DEBILITATED
WEAK AND
NERVOUS
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Skjn
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny 'stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE. Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
Barry’s
% 1801 0
ţ
Tricopheroas
for the
An elegant dressing ex-
quisitely perfumed, re-
moves all impurities from
the scalp, prevents bald-
ness and gray hair, aud causes the hair to grow
Thick. Soft and Beautiful. Infallible for curing
eruptions, diseases of the skin, glands and muscles,
and quickly healing cuts, burns,bruises, sprains, &c.
Caution.— None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
n
Barry's
Pearl
iCream
forthe
Complexion
Impart! to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with thefaintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan, and mantles
the faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTIOK.—None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle
Throw Physic I Dogs!*’
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
PROFESSOR,
MINIATUR
, ALLEN'S
i
Galvanic Battery :
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
Is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century, v
This BATTERY is not larger than- a half-crown
Siece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ed by a silk cord around the* neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
(Tom the Battery Into the system, purifying the Blood,
Strengthening the Nerves "Brain and Muscles, Infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and e»>
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
urinal Organs, Brpnchitns, Asthma, DiphfSieria, Pits,
Constipation, Pile's, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, end almost
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use,
Price FIVE: SHIIiLIMGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Ohcmlete
and Storekeepers. H DAVY & Co , Agent*, SM
Elisabeth St„ Melbourne.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
$
TO
t>
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
snob as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-;
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams*
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
PlI U> and ttev will be aqknp^j edKe( f t 0 be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all' aces these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the sj'stem. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
fihfi livp.r. iihpv anf. lilrp u AT AfiTfl n o faw Haqoo wtll
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the lotig-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the .whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tesdfled
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeeham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the-world.
Beecbara’s Magic Gougli Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbroiiam’s Couoii
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist,St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. Ud. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N B.—Full directions are given with each box.
' X K A /,
G
m
ť
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree In praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An In full lug Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by theappliance above referred to.
Ou? confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for out large illustrated treatise, fuss,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also con tains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application,
lEST” The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Cam. Krupf.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtioit.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647. G.P.0., Sydney, N.RW.
Rcmwtber—-The K.O. Chain Belt cures -without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
PROFESSOR SKLfi V,
J 37C Cleveland Street, Surry Hills, Sydney,
Personally or by letter on Chronic Complaints
of the Nervous System, Diseases of the Urinary
Organs and all Impurities of the Blood. A Positive
Cure in all cases amendable to treatment. Suf-
ferers should read the Professor’s valuable treatise,
sent post free to all who send their address. 11
contains ArmoE on Marriage, worth its weight
in gold.
Business Announcements
THE BAfK OF NEW / ZEALAND
Sydney branches:
64 PITT STJtEET* and STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Liability
Ms,m
76,000
1,500,000
£2,400i000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special'facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms; at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
II
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OL LOW AY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes » grandmedicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers’. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfobd-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to - the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious. ,
£5
IP
75
56
tT
ŧ
7
EVERY
DESCRIPTION
HAIR WORK
PRIVATE. \
ROOMS
FOR LADIES
/n % 2 4\
/ROYAL ARCAdK
MELBOURNE
- - '
J. SITTERLIN,
FROM PARIS,
Ladies' Hairdresser. Wigmaker, & Perfumer.
25 SYDNEY ARCADE, SYDNEY.
HISTORICAL AND FANCY HAIRDRESSING A
SPECIALTY.
Manufacturer of All Kinds of Theatrical
and Street Wigs.
Amnion iatcd Quinine,
The most efficient Hair Lotion, to prevent prema
ture baldness.
Sitterliu’s Vegetable Hair-dye,
The only Hair-dye in the colonies to restore .Light
Hair to its natural colour. All shades.
a-CACcess C5B-TA.&.3ra.a3Ltie€ica..
MANUFACTURING
HATTERS
GtORGEkSTKEET
N
S
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWEST SHAPES.
■ ..■ ; -» 7
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
m
<p
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
hH
m
■
us
i
rax
►7,/.
rtf
•'•f' v/.V'(^
Fa
i Mt
Sferr.. ,
UfACTURtO BV •
t /dM£S CMNNOb S/arUvrS* &
'eld. Vu nil &»*C*U> <J S'fer^ttAero
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
tOXfiON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Ais Reduced from 305. , to '2ls,-
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Hear Tattcrsall's,
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AfTD
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight,
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
GOLD E X A N T Y
Price One Shilling.'
Bound in handsome Cloth Bindifljr, 25.-(5d., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 IMLAIH-IKHEIT STZE&IEJiET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A
RJCOCELE
-Its cause*, symptoms, and patho-
h gy, together with a description
of a HEW and SUCCESSFUL METHOD of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Port frea, two
atamp-.
PROFESSOR CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE, TIC.
Dr. westoott’S amenorrhcea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising : 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d-,
by post 3s. and ss. W. H. SOUL and 00., 190
Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
EPPS’S
GEATEFDIi—COMFORTING-
COCOA.
Read I Read. I Read I
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay,
By Arthur Gayll.
Profusely Hlustrated by Thb Bulletin’s well-
known Artists,
L. HOPKINS and PHIL MAY.
Price - One Sbilling
Per post, Is. 3d.
Hotels.
THE 6EOEGE HOTEL
(opposite Railway Station, near Baths),
St. Hilda, Victoria.
First-class Family & Commercial Hotel.
ter For particulars, apply to
F. WIMROLB,
PROPRIETOR.
PFAHLEET’S HOTEL,
SYDNEY, N 8.W.,
Opposite the Park, Wynyard Square.
(Under If etc Management.)
mniS for 25 years well-known First-class Central Hotel,
J- recently thoroughly renovated throughout, has every
comfort and attention of a home. The Cuisine Department
is under competent French supervision. Dining Room
open for Non-Residents. Open-air Recreation Garden.
A well-ventilated Billiard Room adjoining Recreation
Ground (three Aloock’s best Tables), under the manage-
ment of A. Buckingham, late of Empire Hotel. Winee
and Spirits of the very best quality only, and the Finest
and Coolest Bar in Town
HOT AND COLD BATHS.
|ar MIGHT rosm, French ]
(Senuan 1
TiUffcw I*. UO. Italian J
Spokm.
SPECIAL SUITES FOR FAMILIES.
OOA& HBOBT ... Miuoa.


SHBVILL & c 0
AUCTIONEERS and GENERAL AGENTS,
CORNER
Queen’s treet stud Flinders Lane,
BRANCH OFFICES:
32 Chapel Street, Prahran;
2 Albert Street, Windsor.
MELBOURNE.
C 5. H. SMITH & SOW.
MANUFACTURERS h IMPORTERS OF
PAH'S AND CAPS.
302 George Street, Sydney.
| Doon South ol Hunter Street.
t
Sole Agents foi
HKNKY HEATH,
Oxford Street, London.
ows
R
EMBROCATIONS/
l#
_ t
'SOLD l/M
/" I
\EVERYWHERE'! ■ l !
%
WHY REMAIN DEAF
Deafness completely cured by Professor Harvey’s
Pate' t Electric Head Battery. Self-applied and pain-
less. Ear-drums completely superseded.
Pamphlet fre- i « Collins s> --et Fast. Melbourne.
BOLLINGER’S CHAMPAGNE.
ID JEllT —ZEZXITIRJL QUALITY.
SOLE AGENTS fob NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
A.
SOEIN’S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THIS BEST.
Otto Sander & Co., 336 ICexLt-st.,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
Sydney,
gg:
mb/.
z / //
J.
I
*
YORKS T WYNYARD SQUARE-
„ SYDNEY“«r .
Complete house furnishers
v - *t* SEND FOR CATALOGUE
r v
■
ţ
H. R. Leach,
SUCCESSOR TO
GB. MODINI, Gunmaker, informs his Customers
■ and the Public in general that he has the largest
assortment of Firearms in the colony. Qualities and prices
to defy competition. Guns by the following celebrated
gunmakers;— J. Pukdby & Sons, Cii. Boswell, John Right
and •Go., Joseph Lang & Sons, Cu. Osborne & Co., Tiiouab
Bland & Son, W. Powell & Sons. A large assortment of
various other makers always on hand, viz., W. \\. Greener,
Scott, Weblby, Hollis & Sons, Riley and Cashmore. All
goods w r ill be faithfully guaranteed at 602 George-
street, Sydney. Price list on application.
Facial Blemishes.—' “SSPSSZST
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and gua-antees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
AddressHEßß H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agent*
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
I^rOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
j w cannot be received LATER than 1 p.ni. on
TUESDAY.
Free Frescriptiona
Are to be found in the “Lig;ht and Life,’
for the Speedy-Cure Of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
flHUttiiHlon 31111.
Knowles’ I
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&ts., «Sco-, «&o.
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Koch Breakers.
* Engine*.
n>stlnjrli«iisc E
Taylorßro*
HIGHLY NU f RlTitfE
Coeoa
MAY Bk 08IA1NHJ IN IAHFUiO HNS UH KfICRMa IHHUUHHmJI IHt CULUN*
DRiM
//ini'-
' A
i
‘UNA
Jules
HAMff
AMPAdI
(UN
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
ttU ItMirhr Street, Sallilmrj Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
E
JOW READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
Price, Is. All Agents and Booksellers.
IMPORTERS OP
€(as fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ materials.
m
ULETCHF.RS GAS COOKING STOVXS
Of Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney,
