

CADBTTET’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A ITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IMF THE MARKET
AM>
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SUPPLIER T® THU PRINCIPAL CLUBS IV SVDVEY.
HARRIBOIT & ATT WOOD, ,251 George-st. Sydney, Sole Agents for Mew South Wales.
ROBERTS
5
George, and Streets, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
IB'oiir J*L.<3L<SL*?&SBSsi, <£ Manager.”
fg
f
stasffi
c HiI dr en|
trunksuwcsc
/3d77rw™i&
BROWN’S ,
SATIN
POLISH
—FOR —
LADIES’ AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876 Melbourne, 1880
Berlin, 1877 Frankfort, 1881
Paris, 1878 Amsterd’ra 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be used by
anyonq without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’f’gs.
Pi.
- <r
o*
rue
iff
Tli© Oxford. Hotel, JEEi-xig 1 StiX’eoi:, SS'srs3L:Ba.©'sr.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Propeietoe.
A POSITIVE CURE.
TVR. BOH ANNAN'S Curative Remedies for all Private
Nervous, and Special Complaints. Always reliable.
Descriptive chart sent, sealed, for two stamps. Address
Hotel Metropole Pharmacy, Phillip-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
O. DESNEUX ... PROPRIETOR.
TABLE D'HOTE PABISIE’MNB, 2s. fid.
(Wine Included).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Dinners & Suppers,
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for PARTIES up to FIFTY.
Service a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEH OM SUNDAYS.
Dinners from 3s. 6d. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes' Notice.
J. &
f-
POINTS OP SUPERIORITY.
1. Steel drag bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. —Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
3-—All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4, Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
5. Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
jf
Prizes Wob, 1890 (
Queanbeyan, First. Wagga, First.
Jerildevie ~ Hay ~
{ Prizes Won< 18S0
HOWARD STEED ORIENT MOWER.
HOWARD’S OBIEUT BAKES.
Howard’s Anglo American Rakes.
200\ PITT STREET, SYDNEY
• *
f*) QfQ.
no®
a p w
O ;. J -;r .-: ; :Tsk
«3
CO
gen
to
Acknowledged
The Best
The Bulletin
Yol. 11—No. 583. j
[Saturday, April 18, 1891.


TO ISA
£3^
I mm
IJJT,
i»
mmmm
«Jli ■
OSISSSMMS
Customs i&eturna
American Leaf.
Dixson and Sons consumed in 1888 ’52 592 Jins
“mSic-S? IIS (OVe [ r 4 f, tons ) »8,:93!) Junior,
wKSiS&S” *“ «“ <* Ke>v Sort!
DIXSOJSAS TOBACCOS having-’ tin, larges,
sale ot any m Australia are
O.U £
o
rX
'it.
gjf
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. Ac. Wji. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS,
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MASON BROTHERS,
LIMITED.
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET, SYDNEY’
Have always in stock for sale to the trade and whole-
sale buyers only,
rw e
H OVA U
.fcOiNflURGh
' CASTLf
SpKCMkflftCftV*
AAA
iCOfCHWHISKY
I
Aatttyfa o-y
vwtjhojrtui
Ironmongery, and
GENERAL HARDWARE
Cement, Class, China and
EARTHENWARE.
WINES, BEERS d; SPIRITS,
AND GENERAL
BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for
lar J. T. GAYEN’S, "Ei
Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELYIN and CO.’S
Champagne Pale Ales.
Maehen's
“ PELICAN ” STOUT. <
" The Royal Edinbugh Castle” old Scotch Whiskies.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Rowlands
Macassar
Oil
Has been known for 100 years ns tne (/reßenot
ami beauiifier of tho hair: it prevents it falling off or
turning grey, strengthens weak hair, and eradicates
scurf and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a brillianliue
for the beard and moustaches, u. which it imparts a
soft and silky appearance ; it is also sold in a golden
colour for fair-haired
Rowland’s
Kalydor
a soothing and emollient milk tor the face, and Is most
cooling to the skin in hot climates; it removes freckles,''
tan. sunburn, roughness and redness of the skin,
pimples, cutaneous eruptions, &c ., and produces soft
fair skiii, and a lovely delicate complexion.
SGVVLAHD’S ESSENCE £F TV RE, a harmless preparation
for dyeing red or grey hair a permanent brown or
black, Ask chemists and Rowland's
articles. *
Caution.
Tho extraordinary reputation of Rowland’o Macassar
Oil, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap;’
the principle on which each is prepared it conffned
solely to the knowledge of A. Rowland & Sons, of 20.
Hatton Garden, London, and therefore it is highly
necessary to buy noMacasßar Oil, Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them, and wilich hear their
name in red ink on the wrappers.
01 ' the Liquor Habit (in any form) POSITIVELY
and RAPIDLY CURED by administerinv>:
the world-renowned
«GOLDEN SPECIFIC,”
prepared according to the formula of DR. HAINES.
It i
lie
u a cup of coffee or. tea, or in food, either
WITH OR WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE of tho patient if
necessary; it is absolutely harmless, and will effect a permanent
and speedy cure, whether the patient is a moderate drinker or an
alcoholic wreck. IT NEVER FAILS. THOUSANDS PROVE
IT. It operates so quietly and with such certainty that the
patient undergoes no inconvenience, and ere lie is aware his
complete reform is effected. Write for Book, sent with’lull
particulars and Colonial testimonials free by return.
BEWARE of worthies ? imitations and plagiarisms of
our Advertisements. We have no Agents.
Note our Solo Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.
145 So 147 Colling St., MELBOURNE, Vio.
ATKINSON'S
WHITE ROSE
The most refined of all Perfumes.
Sweet as the Rose itself. Imitated the
world over, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the
German kinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinson’s.
Of all Sealers. .
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION } —Only genuine with shield- !
shape blueand yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Bose J
and address in full.
JjJERVE or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
—BY—
Consulting R. J. POULTON Chemist,
77 Bourkk Street, MELBOURNE,
Who, after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Cvnsu/t pevsonully or by letter.
Hilliams’s Australian
Yeast Powder-
isr is THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST. c^|
Breacl,, &o,
ARE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
.WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian If east Powder.
FOB THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold ill TS.PS at 61 the Half-Poillld
j
k
Purchasers should sec that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus ;—•
Ask for Lea A Perkins’ Sauce, and sec Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export In/ (he Proprietors, Worcenier; Crosse <f Blackwell, London, sc,,
and by Grocers and Oilmen ihrcicjhoul the V'orld.
NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin.
O Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INCH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
J V cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, bv
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, which
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney,
i
\l/
D
vlx
■"A
e
M5>jO
Offices
»t/
/j>
/Jx
Mildu p.a _
Melbourn e
Renmar k _
ADELA I DE _
England„
.Victoria.
Chaffey Irrigation Offices, Swanston Street.
South Australia,.
-Cavendish Chambers, Grenfell Street.
J. E. Ma thew Vincent,(Chief Com miss inner)
Cornwall Buildings , 35 Queen Victoria St
U. O N DON E. c.
frosda; 4. it
“-A- O-OLDEfTST SHAITTr:”
Australian Ske.' ekes in Prose and Verse,
By Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
Book ot 3STatvire.
fj
Book of KTatu-re.
■rPCOK OF N ATURE and Illustratod
J3> Guide. A full and exploit explanation of the
ctmr-t'nfe and uses of the organs of life and veneration in
man and woman, intended (specially for the married,
t i lose intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
“ j nature of coniugnl pleasnn w and duties, to which is
Ll A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or aliuss, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
Imm-avim'S fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation 5 from ‘the time of conception to the period of
delivery ’ No such complete panorama of the mysteries
cf human production has ever before been given to the
... 01-1,1 by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3,0 post
. I rj he ’ art 0 f Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
ntlil’te price!/-.' Plain Home Talk about the Human
Svs'etu new edition, 210 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7 0 The Emils of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Sirs. Hesanfs
lw of Population, I/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
‘ t ./- Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
uostl/2 WonderfuJ Song Book, extra large, 10. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments. &0., price 1/0.
“ Every Man his own School mast ,r, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modem Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visitin v Introductions, Weddings, &c.. 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6,
The Secret of Beauty Revealed, and Guide to Female
Loveliness ; price Is. . TJ .. „„,
“ Nigger Stump Speeches and Comic Pattern, 6d.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man s own
urivate use: illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, hy Dr. F. Rollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, pnoeS/,-
cost free R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
For Mosquito Bites
?TE e * tract
&
s?°
*«•/?/>
For Bad Eyes Use
Our EucalypteVictory
OINTMENT
For Consumption use
Mm*Son*
?n
v
%-Mm
/
THE ONIY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLtt
It is the only known cure for Asthma, Consump
lion, Bronchitis, and all affections of the Chest ami
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel ano
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of a!
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banishei
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Childre:
should have Euoalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls ot
great price. external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamund ra
ROSES
m
&
$
wvy
WSM]m
X
&
I
; 5
oS
m
m
LOti
B 5
r pHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLINU
X and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene
floial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
3EH.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
{3F" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT ami
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
[APSES’
TANSY PILLS are 'better than
Steel, Pennyroyal, or Ergot. Cures
obstruction's from ■whatever cause.
Never fails. No Pills or Powd** v 8
like them. Particulars free.
W. PARKER. P.O. Box 100, Melbourne.
T XX E
Brunswick Land Mart,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA-
JOSEPH ROGERS, AUCTIONEER,
proprietor.
a
timu tn* S B'id8*S' St fay.
TO
INVESTORS
—AND—
SPECULATORS.
I have on hand some
of the best
Station*
\
Mining*
Farm*
AND
Building Properties
in Western Australia.
Send for Plans
and Particulars, which
will be forwarded with-
out delay.
Yours faithfully ,
Joseph Rogers,
Extract from West Australian Newspaper
<• The Brunswick Land Mart is by far the most commodious and best appointed
place of its kind in the colony.”
m- Before investing in W.A. in Land or Mining Properties consult the above.
Gr. HE. SMITH & SONS,
302 George Street, SYDNEY.
HAT MANUFACTURERS.
Sole Agent for XX. Heath & Sons, London.
I /Kl
f
5%
a
u
tammumi
YORK S T -WYN1YARD-SQUARE
SYDNEY*
fOMpLCTEHoUSE FURNISHERS
v- «> JU ?pun for rATAi nr.iiF
SEND FOR CATALOGUE ®
UOW OIPIBIIiT!
Queen's Birthday Cup, Rand wick, 25th May, 1891.
20,000 I W at 5 each 20,000
• s. o
02 s S
p-
o o o o
o o o o
0091 '■ a !.'l
fg
3rd No. after 2nd... ... 100
3rd No. before 3rd ... 80
3rd No. after 3rd CO
Total amount ... 5000
All Accounts PAID day after. Less 1) per cent.
N.B.— On my last I paid 600 more for 5 than others did for 10.
Address :
p r ed A.. Bruce, Care of “THunited aid bank,”
115 & 117 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Medical.
Dr, RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome hia
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1
$
: .
□
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research* thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or-
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
free, a large cloth-bound
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after hia case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NEB
VOUS DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write yon, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a l ! st of carefully-pre-
pared questiohs, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
j) r Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE,


Musical.
READ THIS CAREFULLY I —Revolution in the
Music Trade ! ! ! —For cash or on time payments, 700
Violins, from 3s lid to £25 ; 550 Accordeons, from 3s 6d
to £3; 120 Banjos, from 2s to £10; Zithers, from 21s ;
Mandolines, from 255; Guitars, from 7s 6d; Cornets,
30s to £3O; Flageolets; Flutes, from (id ; Drums; Anglo
and English Concertinas, from 25s ; German Concertinas,
from 2s lid ; Nigger Bones, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Double
Basses, Brass Bands, String Bands complete, Pianos,
Organs, Comic Song Books. New Music by every mail;
New Waltzes every week ; New Songs by every mail.
Pianos Exchanged and Tuned, Any kind of instrument
thoroughly repaired hy experienced English workmen.
Write for full particulars ; the prices will astonish you.
25,010 Songs and ricces—3d each.
HOWARD & CO.,
OCEAN STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY.
I®” Agents Wanted; Good Commission Paid for
Good Business.
MUSICAL.
Pianoforte Pupils should buy INGHAM’S PATENT
SCALE INSTRUCTOR to learn scales quickly, 3s. 6d.
Note—Anyone would play the most intricate scale with
five minutes instruction.
Ingham’s Improved Piano Vamping Instructor,
Without a knowledge of Music, ss. od., posted from
Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
DEPOSITORS. BORROWERS.
The Intercolonial Investment*
LAND & BUILDING CO., Ltd.,
AND
deposit zo^k.:Kr:Esz.
Incorporated under the Companies’ Act.
Dices i SO3 BH &TBBR, SIM
Directors:
WM. M'COURT, Esq., M.L.A. (Chairman);
R. J. BRANDON, Esq., J.P. ; TIIOS. TATE. Esq.;
J. T. LAWLER, Esq.; G. DYSON, Esq.
BORROWERS.
Loans Granted on Approved Securities.
DEPOSITORS.
Moneys received on Deposit:
Three Years
One Year
Six Months
Participating
in
Bonus.
}
per cent.
7 percent.
G per cent.
Five per cent, allowed on Daily Balance of Current
Account, which may be operated on by cheque.
Latest Balance-sheet on application.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capita], £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Subscribed, £151,305; Capital Paid-up, £101,757.
Id OSes: fill I Market Streets, Sydney,
/ Board of Directors :
Francis Abigail. Esci., M.L. A., Chairman; Ald. S. G. Dawson,
J.P.; T. H. Hassell, Esq,, M.L.A.; William Bub, Esq., J.P.;
Robt. Cunningham Esq.
Branches :
NEW South Wales : Goulburn—Auburn Street. C. H.
Atkinson, Manager. Grafton—Prince Street. James
Brownhill, Manager. Queensland: Brisbane—Queen
Street. W. J. Taylor, Manager.
- The Bank transacts all usual banking ousiness in every
particular. Special advantages granted to Commercial
Clients.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Accounts calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, Chairman.
April 2, 1891.
Miscellaneous.
Messrs. MAUDE & CO.,
Artists in Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London,
are prepared to place before the public all the latest
novelties in Floral work. Table decorations for Balls,
Weddings, and Dinner Parties receive special attention
for which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Bouquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs
Sprays, and Buttonholes
are arranged in the latest London style at
The Home of Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nursery, Peakhurst, .Hurstville,
|ADIES!
CONSULT the Eminent Specialist
DR. SPEER,
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
PILLS GUARANTEED, 10s and £1 per box, post free
3. &
8c
o^ ERY
\'<u
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May ho obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
P v V
*°iui SU-e^
Lctrcre of imitations. T ha genuine is signed
XRADE MARK .—MUSK DEER
jfg
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
THe Brighiton. of Wew South ’Wales,
o
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
o— :
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
.... Proprietress*
■
" T i
5-..
•*
HOT Et
as
m
■ • -'a
W
KT ''
&
Hoyal Slotel] T. BROWff, Proprietor. [Randwick.
Specially adapted for Families. 6®“ Trams Stop at Door.
wmmm
■r jfe.
''"BE
! Dr. M, PEKHIT,
I M.8.C.5., L.S.A , &c.,
SPECIALIST for the Treatment of Nervous
Complaints, Diabetes, Tumors, See.
Registered by the Medical Boird of .V. S. IF. Lite Rouse Sur -
geon t> the Great Aor them Hospital. Lsnd-.n
I am aware that I am not strictly following the paths
of professional etiquette by advertising myself as a
Specialist for the treatment of this class of disease, but,
unfortunately for the suffering public in Australia the
apathy shown by Qualified Men in the treatment of
Chronic and Nervous Complaints has induced men of the
lowest grade of intellect (whose only qualifications are
unlimited assurance) to spring up, and by specious
advertisements and false promises trap the unwary.
It is very evident that sufferers from these diseases
have been scandalously treated by these unqualified
persons The evidence taken at tire Medical Enquiry
held in Sydney (published in the Daily Telegraph, Nov.
Gth 7th and Bth, 1890) plainly shows the disgraceful
manner in which patients are duped. Not only are
they robbed of their money, but what is of infl.dtely
greater Importance, their health is injured also. It is
therefore time that legally Qualified Men entered the
field to fight these pests of society with their own
weapons, viz., Advertising.
It is utterly impossible for those who are suffering
Horn the.e diseases, who are scattered over all parts of
Australasia, to ascertain which Qualified Practitioner
makes these diseases his speciality unless he advertises.
I consider therefore, that by advertising I not o.ly
strike a Mow at the Quackery which now exists, but I also add
to the usefulness of my profession ami in no way lessen my
personal dignity.
_ My Qiiiiliilcntlons I Invito Iho fullest investigation into. For some considerable time I was House Surgeon to the
Great Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of observin ; the many phases of the Nervous amt
Sexua, System,and to become acquainted with the most scientific methods of effecting their cure.
My sole attention la given to the treatment of these diseases, and when a person consults me he is Informed at I lie
if°l undertak™the c° ther 1 tan effeot his oure or not ‘ The P atient is not deluded with false arid specious promises, and
I Absolutely Guarantee a Complete and Permanent Cure.
My great success 'in the treatment of these diseases enables me to give this guarantee without fear
EL»£IILY nmnLE-AGEI) DIES, AHI) YOlJSft MES
Buffering from Impaired Vitality should send for my Work on Disenses of the Unproductive Organs, which, in addition to crnlninlna
my method of treatment, contains many useful hints ns to -elf Management, the observance of which is of great use to all and in maij
instances ts sufficient t . check the progress of disease. This Book will he forwarded Free on application. '
Patients residing at a distance can be treated at their own homes without interruption to their business. Medicines packed and sent
free from observation to nil parts of Australasia. r 1
„ Varioceie quickly and permanently cured without operation. Diabetes and Tumors treated by a totally new method of Cutaneous
Medication. Consultation Hours—From 10 a.m. to 4p m. daily (except Sundaysf; and from 7 to 9 p.m. on Tuesday and Saturday
evenings. Consultation [either hg letter or in person) Free. *
Address all Communications
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c,, Elmley House, 151 Elizabeth-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
tloner B B 7AnlTaiverUBlnff.auS? S bef ° re consuUins s P eolalista to asßertoin if they are really Duly Qualified Fraoti-
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Aarons 7 Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
ggr MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAIIiY in the Building-.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES
■ ■- •' ■<
« n Th J S fir i‘ ,t p cl fi- H r° tel ! ias be -A” Han dsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Eletram
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention i
visitors. tW Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day . Special Rates for Families , attention to
AARONS’ BXCHAN<»II HOTIlli COMPANY - . Proprietors.
W * W ‘ AIKKN S Manager (IS years In the establishment).
Shipping.
COMPANY OF NEW
Limited.
TTNION STEAM SHIP
ZEALAND,
SAN FRANCISCO ROYAL MAIL SERVICE.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
calling at
AUCKLAND and HONOLULU,
Avoiding- alike the heat of the Red Sea and the Cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmaster-General of New
Zealand, the steamers of this line are appointed to leave
"■' ( r ” le y :lnd Auckland for Honolulu and San Francisco
EVERY POUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Each steamer carries a duly qualified Surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with electric light, and with
a refrigerating chamber for ship's provisions, ensuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations, and have at San Francisco choice
of the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines'of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other Companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
for San Francisco, and 2501 b. “ overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL,
1- IRST-CLASS ... .... £O3 to £66,
For time cards, railway maps, and guide hooks showing all
other information appy at the Company’s Offices 15
Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
£|OMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MAK T
TIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government or
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACIIEE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powesfcul steamers of 4000
tons and 30.00 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows
Steamers.
Commander. Leav ® S^dne Y Leave Mel-
nt 11 a.m. bourne! p.m
27 .April 30
26 May 28
AVSTRALIEN G. Didier ..Urrll
OCEANIEN A. Poydeiiot iMay
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month!
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including, table wines and Sue-z Canal dues On passengers!
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
rmgnsn interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arvival.of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. B. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. °For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. OONIL, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
U K S’
VICTORIA HOTEL,
J J Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Bound to no man. Only the choicest liquors.
Scdlinayr’s Kavariau “ Spalen,” Export”
and “ Tafd” Lager—SPECIALITY.
K
ATOOMBA FAMILY
JOSEPH NIMMO
HOTEL.
First-class Accommodation for Tourists and Families
Wires and Letters o be addressed “Proprietor.”
Arrangements can be made to provide transit for persons
wishing to view the celebrated Jenolan Caves and
other places of interest.
Medical.
. r A PATERSON
A;M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.0.5., Eng.,
157
ELIZABETH STREET,
Sydney.
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC,
NERVOUS,
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Look Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, palpi-
tation, singing and pains m the ears and head.,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, Rains in the back'and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening,discharges, impaired
vigor,sterility,premature decay,stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. Gd. he will forward his book on the “Malm
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
157 UlizabeOi Si., Hyde Park, Sydney.


HOLDSWORTH, MCPHERSON & CO.
254 & 256 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
COOKING & HEATING STOVES.
IN NEWEST DESIGNS.
■WITH ALL THE LATEST IMPHOVEME3STTS.
THE
"PARRAMATTA”
STOV(E.
|ar A SPECIALITY!
jfg
m
Suitable for WOOD or
COAL, having an adjustable
Fi r e-B ox, easil j cleaned
and drop-door.
'Bhe Oven-door opens from
fire, and the Oven* is so
constructed to ensure quick
and even heating, with small
consumption of fuel.
mm
To Toe had of all Ironmongers and Storekeepers.
Fencing 1 Wire, Rabbit-proof
BUTCHERS' REQUISITES.
Sausage Machines and Fillers,
SCALES, CHOPPERS, CLEAVERS.
P*
SALTING PUMPS, &c.
Netting
NEUROTIC/.
A Wonderful Cure for Neuralgia and Headache. Will
give relief in two doses and effect a cure in 12 hours.
NEUROTIC
Claims to be the only medicine exclusively prepared for
THE CURE of NEURALGIA and HEADACHE.
Uetirotic KTeurotic
IS the greatest discovery of the present age, for the cure
of that distressing complaint, NEURALGIA.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Robertson's
Whisky.
flrummer .Stout.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Registered
oV
a
Trade Mark
Silver Grlit, or Pile Cure,
Is the recipe of a celebrated German
physician. This specific for Piles is a
§We and Safe Cure. Testimonials
from all parts of the Colonies.
Price, 2s. 6d. per Jar ; by Post 3s.
The Testimonials are a proof of the
effectiveness of the Cure, -which will be
forwarded with each Jar.
To be had at Lea'ding Chemists—
Messrs. Washington H. Soul, Mar-
shall’s Australian Drug Co., &c.
Apply—JOHN POPE,
Care of Harrison & Co.,
194 Castlereagii Street.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
HIGHLY (MUTRITJVh
MAY BE OBTAINFR IN I ABELEU.IiNS UM PACKETS rHHOUGHQUTJFHE COLONY.
DhSPEEM
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
| physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., theCHRONICand SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 p ra.
Mervotis Oetoility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS AND
SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion, for his many
years of practice with this dreadful disease enables him
to remove all traces of it and to return the victims to full
VIGOUR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR, SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated pills
!•—-AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &e., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2- AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3. —“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his— A., Extremely
Moderate Charges ; 8., Effectual and Rapid Treatment;
1 C., Absolute and Permanent Cure.
jgf
jf
Evingf’s Indelible
Marking* Ink.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and
the Elite
Patronised by Vice-Royalty and
of tub Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist . ‘I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. —Signed, Wm. Johnston. ”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In oases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. Ewing;
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Fitzroy,'MELBOURNE.
'&■
D
gjf
j
Bass’ Pale Ale
mmm
&uinness’ Sxtra Stout
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED..
AGENTS:
Balchin, ,Johnston, & Co.,
/ SYDNEY.
m
m
V
m
.
; .
*****
taom.mam f^S
■
j
■£*s■ & • a 'Fai&lzS*!,
STRATTON'S HOTEL, COWPEE STREET, WAVEELEY.
0. F. Stratton ... ... Proprietor.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.”
In Handsome CLOTH BINDING, 2s. 6d., Post Paid,


IJTH
'y
111!! 1
slum
! . **
■Mm
a
WHEN
sswa
Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
T. E. and Co.’s Improved STEEL EAETH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid.
T. 11. and Co.’s DAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. E. and Co.’s New DRAIN FORMERS.
T. E. AND Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OVER BOX WOOL-
PRESS—the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. E. and Co.’s STEAM, HORSE or HANDPOWER WOOL-PRESSES.
'l'. E. and Co.’s HARVESTING MACHINERY of every description.
T. R. and Co,, Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
:
407 & 409 Elizatoetn- Street.
MELBOURNE.
;;
LIMITED
GEORGE ST„ SYDNEY.
mJKted Catalogue of Glassware, China and Earthenware.
IPOIS' 8 !?
Write for E.P. Ware, Cutlery, and Jewellery Catalogue.
POST FREE -«a
SIPHTEISTIDIX) STOCK; OK ELEOTEO SILYEE "Vvce-UK,
The BIGHT HOUSE for CHINA, EARTHENWARE, GLASSWARE, E.P. WARE, CUTLERY, BEDSTEADS, &e.
The “ Sydney ” Spray.
Price, 30s. Set.
SET OF 51 PIECES.
This service is ’of best Staffordshire make,
and is a very neat and effective Floral Spray
Design, in brown or green, on ivory-coloured
ground, fluted_shape.
S-v*
V . 4 ft?? *
»•■' "• •-;
Sr.
Sk-^6
isS
%
*1
The “Baronial” Dinner Set.
Price, 30,3. Set.
SET OF 51 PIECES.
This is a spray of “Ivy ” Leaves, printed in
brown on an ivory body ware. It is of the best
Staffordshire make, and is a very neat and effective
design.
r
m
Oak Tray.
E.P. N.S. Rail
18in. 20in.
05/- 70/-
22in. 24in
80/- 85/-
Claret Jugf.
20/- E.P. B.M.
Tantalus Spirit Frame.
Oak and E.P. N.S.
One Pint, £6 10s.; One Quart. £7 10s.
E.P.N.S Egg Frames,
4-cup, 55/- ... 6-cup, 70/-
E.P.N.S.
Gilt-lined Sugar Basin.
Price ... 40/-
Money.
-dUSTMLWN
gfj
Loan jS S Guarantee
Co., Limited.
Incorporated under Companies’ Act 1874.
):(
CAPITAI „ „ £300,090 3u 109,000 Sharps of £5 pacli.
HEAD OFFICE: YORIT & MARKET STREETS,
Branches:
f LONDON—IIO CANNON STREET, E.O.
I MELBOURNE— 2S’3 COLLIMS STREET EAST.
I BRISBANE—EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
I NEWCASTLE- 37 HUNTER STREET.
§. §owe, { Esq., MS- .... Chairman.
Xiondon Board, of A.clvice s
LORD ULICK H. BROWNE.
HON. J. F. VESEY FITZGERALD.
JOHN HOWARD, Esq.
The Company is prepared to advance money on all classes of approved securities
for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
Twelve Months .. .. © per cent.
NOT FOE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
The DIVIDEND declared for the year ending' 30th dune is NOW PAYABLE.
TO INVESTORS.
A limited number of SHARES are now OFFERED for distribution in the colonies,
payable ss. per share on application, ss. per share on allotment, and the balance as
required by calls not exceeding 2?. per share, at intervals of not less than three months.
Tim whole of the capital derived from calls goes to the Company’s credit.
Forms of application, balance sheets and ether information can be obtained from the
Head Office of the Company, or at any of the Branches.
A. MILLER, Go eral Manager.
A Golden Shanty.
FREEHOLD INVESTMENT and DEPOSIT BANE,
173 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Australian Star Office).
Fixed Deposits received in any sum, and interest payable quarterly, as under, viz.;—
12 months 9 per cent.
9 months 8J per cent.
6 months 8 per cent.
3 months 6 per cent.
Depositors for 2 and 3 years receive 10 per cent., and in addition a bonus of 1 per cent, per annum. Remittance**
receivable by cheque and deposit receipt forwarded. Promissory Notes Discounted on deposit deeds without
delay. Prompt Advances made on Land and Freehold Property, in town or country. All correspondence
immediately replied to. BDWD. A. MORGAN, Secretary
ALLAN A. MARSHALL & CO.,
Engineers, Coppersmiths, Brass and Bell Founders,
Finishers, Plumbers, Ship & General Smiths,
Gasfitters, Art & Medi asval Metal Worker
KOLLEIt SKATES (any make) with Kit ASS or WOODEN WHEELS.
Verity’s Gas Fires, Heaters and Ventilators at greatly Reduced Prices—ll,ooo Fires already in use
Importers and Manufacturers of Diving Gear, Yacht and Boat Work of everv description in
Iron or Brass, Ships’ Single and Double Action Valve Closets, Fire Hydrants, Hose and all appliance
Bon Accord Works, 9 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Cleoverb
Terebene
Soap
Unrivalled
for the Complexion.


The Bulletin
Vol.ll—No. 583.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1891.
Price, 6d.
“AND USE THEM IF NECESSARY.”
“ BRISBANE, Thursday.—Evidence is accumulating that the strike is fast approaching a close. The Colonial Secretary has received a letter from the country cadet
corps expressing disgust at the recent cowardly acts of the unionist shearers and offering to-shoulder their rifles, and use them if necessary. "—Daily paper.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South W ales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum 0
ITa'/yearly 0 12 G
Quarterly ... ••• OGG
Cheques, Drafts, etc., end all Business. Communications
to hs addressed to William Jlacleod, Managing Director.
Biterarry Communications to he addressed to J. P.
Archibald.
The Bditor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 00G0 words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or N ewspaper-Clippings. All
communications will bo regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin ” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may jjay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with U'hom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, 1801.
The Consummation of the Crime.
When reviewing, a month ago, the debate
in the Federal Convention on the resolutions
framed by Sir Henry Parke,s— a debate
which was useless on resolutions which were
considered merely to sop an old man’s petu-
lant vanity— The Bulletin declared that if
the Conventionists did not reach in their
later discussions a higher level of patriotism
and intelligence, they could hardly help
consummating a crime. That crime has
been consummated. The Conventionists
have sold the liberties of the Australias, and
now ask the people to ratify the scandalous
transaction.
# # #
Owing its origin to the strategic party-move
of a man whose grasp of power in New
South Wales was being fretted away by the
scandals and follies of his administration,
and who was under the necessity, therefore,
of diverting the popular mind—a man who
is a cunning Parliamentarian and an ornate
rhetorician and nothing more—a man who
has been swept into office, time and again,
by the accursed waves of sectarian hate,
who has never passed a law that he did not
crib, and never advocated a principle that
he did not before denounce or afterward
betray ; a man who has never manifested the
faintest symptom of constructive genius or
genuine nobility of soul, and whose solitary
title to be termed a statesman rests upon his
capacity to put his opponents in the
wrong ; a man who is so little as to
endure the smile of aristocrats who publicly
insult him in what should be his dearest
relationships ; a man who feels proud because
the Times, organ of Pigotism and slander,
s dutes him with a lie—a lie founded upon its
own preposterous ignorance—owing its origin,
we say, to this political paralytic, the Conven-
tion was discredited from the moment of its
conception. It was net created by the
people ; it arose from no enthusiastic popular
sentiment ; it was not preceded by the
labour-throes which herald the birth of a
strong vitality ; it was not originated in the
necessity of events. We said this before,
tßough we were reluctant to do so, because,
as our readers know, we have toiled as no
other paper has toiled to unite the Austra-
lias in a Federal Union, and were prepared
to welcome any form of Federation that
promised permanence. We say it again ;
not with reluctance this time, but with
bitterness and sorrow with bitterness
against the men who could so abase the
noblest opportunity which ever fell to the
lot of politicians ; and with grief that the
“great men ” of these provinces have proved
themselves so contemptibly small that they
have sacrificed their one chance of immor-
tality for the petty distinctions to be con-
ferred by a fast-falling Throne.
# # *
There is no doubt about it. This is no
time to mince words or to soften to the ear
a brutal strength of phrase. If the Conven-
tionists spoke truly when they one and all
averred the magnificence of their task, then
smooth, pretty-sounding syllables are not
wanted in this discussion. If the work be
great and worthy of men in their intellectual
and moral prime, let it be criticised with
virility of tone and strength of passion. If
the Constitution is to dominate a Common-
wealth, not of four millions of souls, but of
ten, twenty, forty, a hundred millions—and
this is the alleged hope and aim of the men
who framed it—there is no demand for the
employment of the elegancies of language
and the “tinsel clink of compliment ” till it
is seen whether the praise is deserved. What
is wanted is the cool steel of logic, and then,
if need be, the bludgeon of invective.
We do not hesitate to declare that
there is no doubt about the influence,
the pernicious, traitorous influence, exerted
over the Convention by the fact of the
Imperial Connection and the probability
of Imperial “honors.” The members of
the Convention had an absolutely clean sheet
before them whereon to write a Constitution
which should have asserted to the crack
o’ doom the sanctity- of human liberty and
the dignity of the individual man. It would
have been an accident of the situation that,
with the immortal document itself which
might have transcended in worth the Declara-
tion of Independence by so much as that
transcends Magna Chart a, their own names
would have gone down to the grateful ages,
but the accident would have conferred a dis-
tinction besides which the Knighthood of
the Round Table itself would pale its bril
liancy. And, now, what has been done?
The Conventionists have written on the
sheet words which will be erased by the
keen edge of the Australias’ scorn, and they
have bartered the reverence and applause of
the mighty Future —not that of -Australia
alone, but that of the World—for the smile
of a Prince— such a Prince ! —and the two-
fingered shake of his local agents.
# # #
Tliis is their shame and their crime. They
cheered the Queen at the conclusion of the
final session, but they did not cheer the
Commonwealth. Even their eifrontery did
not go that far. The omission was, perhaps,
trifling, but as a straw shows the direction
of the stream, and the thistle-down the
impulse of the wind, the incident indicated
indubitably the trend of the Conventionists’
thoughts and aspirations. Not on the Aus-
tralias were tin ir eyes fixed ; but on the
foreign throne which is to grant the
baronetcies, and the Privy Councillorships,
and the knighthoods, and in their legislative
result they succeeded beyond the measure
which most men receive when they strive to
make their work coincide with their wishes.
All through the Convention, the Australian
and the democratic element was steadily
voted down ; all through it, the Imperialists
had their own way. The falsities and the
shams which cannot be separated from
Imperialism without death to it as to theili-
selves are to be implanted in the Common-
wealth, and in it is to be perpetuated the
social system, which is the product of the
aristocratic idea —a system which is based
upon class-wrong and class-villainy,. upon
privilege and wealth, and upon the emascu-
lated humanity which is a condition of the
existence of caste, privilege, wealth. The
Conventionists proposed to call into being a
new nation. They have done their best to
endow 7 with life a thing which will reproduce
in time the scrofulous sores of the Old World.
# * *
Look at the record. Obey, whose pure
and honourable past should have commanded
respect if his words in the present could not
win assent, jeei’ed at and insulted for his
repeated attempts to give the people an
absolute voice in the framing of machin-
ery which is to control their destiny ;
Kingston pityingly patronised, as one
patronises a crank or a child, for his effort
to constitute an industrial judiciary, the most
rational and well-considered scheme yet
promulgated by any Australian politician to
meet the social problem ; Cockbubn ridi-
culed for his democracy, and reminded that
his personal interests would not be served
by his claim that one man should have one
vote and no more ; Downer contemptuously
smiled upon as, paraphrasing The Bulletin,
he prophesies discord between the States
and the Federal Government. These on one
side ; and on the other— Fitzgerald, the
beer-drawer, denouncing Cockburn’s sugges-
tion as “ impudence • Griffith, with the
assertion that “ every prerogative of the
Throne not retained by her Majesty w 7 as
vested in the Governor-General ” —a state-
ment which is true, but which is
damnable, inasmuch as its plain sig-
nificance is that the Federal Government
will be far less free and far more dependent
on the Crown than any one Australian pro-
vince is at the present day ; Munro, with
22 Victorian votes In his pocket, bestowing
verbal approval of the “ One man one vote ”
principle, and repudiating it on division ;
Playford, with his expressed hope that the
Constitution will be submitted to the people,
and his laughter at the idea of eliciting the
people’s will on the details of the measure:
“ How can you expect an intelligent decision
from the electors ?” ho asked, in effect ;
Gillies doing his best to disfranchise the
electors who had put him into political
power, and who had paid his bread and
meat bill that he might have leisure
to learn how he could betray them ;
and Parkes —the President, whose “ p
solutions ” were literally tossed contemp-
tuously aside at the first meeting of the
Constitutional Sub-Committee, Parkes, who
got down from the Chair to pour out hog-
wash and vituperation. These on the other.
On the one side, the force of manhood and
the Australian conscience ; on the other, the
power of Imperialism and Caste, of the Beer-
vat and the Plural Vote, of the Banker’s
pass-book and its correlative, the Insolvency
Schedule. Need we say which side was in
the .majority ? There was a loud chorus of
“ Ayes ! ” when the Constitution as a whole
was put to the vote. Sir George Grey’s
voice rang out in a solitary “No!” The
coming generations are going to vote with
Grey, though now it may be as President
Parkes declared, “ That the Ayes have it !”
* * *
Look further. You will find in the Con-
stitution no clause to secure, at any stage of
the progress of legislation, the effect of the
popular will. It is a written Constitution —
and almost every clause will have to be
interpreted by precedent—British precedent
—or by reference to that other and non-
written Constitution —the British ! The
popular, the Australian will is never pro-
vided for ; the Imperial will always. Time
and the popular judgment have been filing
away the Imperial connection to a shadow
but the Constitution lias renewed its sub-
stance. Note the vicious circle ; Legislatuics
elected by the plutocratic and, therefore,
privileged vote, are to enact the Constitu-
tion ; the same vote will elect (he Fedeial
Parliament under the Constitution ; from the
Parliament thus erected there are to be selec-
ted Ministers of State ; these Ministers are
to be chosen by the Croivn, and it will be
through those Responsible Officers of the
Crown that the life of the Constitution is to
to express itself. Will a Ministry so chosen
from a House so elected do aught to affect
the Imperialistic and privileged interests of
which it is the creature ? It would be
expecting the impossible and giving the lie
to all our knowledge of politicians, to suppose
that anything of the sort could happen. The
Federal Executive will be the voice, not of
the People, but of the Classes and the Crown.
A majority vote in the House of Represen-
tatives would not necessarily drive Ministers
from office, because it would rest with the
Governor-General to retain them in power,
and if the occasion of the vote were a ques-
tion of the Imperial relations, it would be,
manifestly, the Viceroy’s unquestionable
duty to keep them as “ his advisers.” The
Constitution, in times of political conflict,
will give to a Viceroy who is strong in self-
confidence and in the support of the Crown,
an enormous power which has no analogy in
British institutions, properly so-called. Its
analogue is the Viceroy-ship of India, which
is the supreme authority of a conquered
country. The Bulletin asserts that the
closer the relation of the Federal Parliament
to the Executive, and the relation of
the Executive to the Governor - General
and to the Crown are studied, the more
apparent it will be that a fatal conces-
sion has been made by the Constitution
to Imperialism. That the result will be
ultimate good we believe, but the path to it
will be marked with evil. The popular will
must rule in the end, but, if the Constitution
remain as it is, the end will only be reached
after deadlocks and suffering. Had the Con-
ventionists steered for the Australian ideal,
or had they even' been content to leave
unassailed the liberties already enjoyed by
the Provinces, the end would have come
naturally and without violence.
# # #
The Constitution must not be allowed
t > remain as it is. This paper was the
first to demand that the Constitution
should be submitted in detail to the
popular will. There is very little ques-
tion now that this claim will be sup-
ported in the several State Parliaments. If
the Constitution be placed before district or
State Conventions in detail, we shall be as
content as if a referendum on particulars
were, made to the whole people, always pro-
viding that the State Convention is elected
by the adult male vote. Every male of
legal majority must have a vote for
the local Convention, whether a registered
elector of his State or not. The plan
would be novel, no doubt, but so is the
machinery of the State Convention. Then,
from the State Conventions must go back to
the State Parliaments the Constitution as
affirmed, or amended, or rejected ; an,d from
the several State Legislatures', it iiiiS.be
sent on to a second and, if need be, a third:
Federal Convention. Jill The Bulletin
affirmed the need of a second Convention in
its last issue, the possibility of holding one
never occurred to the delegates, and it was
not till then that the majority strenuously
exerted themselves to demonstrate that if
another Convention is held, there will be no
finality to the job of Constitution-making.
There never will be finality, and for that
reason there is no hurry to begin, or, having
begun, to prosecute the work. Had the
Conventionists framed a Constitution which
provided the essential condition of per-
manency —elasticity of machinery to give
effect to the people’s will—their work,
humanly speaking, would have been final.
But in their eagerness to protect Im-
perialism, and to win their rewards, they
have betrayed the Australians, and the Aus-
tralians would .be unworthy to possess a
free, self-made Constitution if they do not
decline, by refusing to give their decision in
haste, to imperil their national greatness at
the bidding of the creatures of Imperialism.
Judges’ Sentences.
Ip any other body of men administering public
affairs delivered, on open evidence, judgments
of such manifestly irrational disparity as those
daily dispensed, by the occupants of the New
South Wales and District Court benches, it is
beyond doubt that the people would long ago
have risen in indignation and demanded either
that the travesty on commonsense should be
restrained or a radically different system in-
augurated. The embezzlement boom through
which the country is now passing, appears to
have afforded New South Wales judges a special
opportunity of placing prominently on record
that they care nothing for one another’s
opinions, nothing for the opinion of the public
and nothing for the prisoner’s sense of what is
an equitable average punishment for his crime.
Some may think this last a small matter. Tire
approval or disapproval of a, convicted em-
bezzler may be regarded as of lit tip consequence;
but we contend that sufficient thought will
show that, taken in relation to social reform,
its importance cannot be over-estimated. A
criminal’s natural tendencies in difficulties
are towards the avenues of his original
sin, and the man who remembers that for em-
bezzling a small sum he was punished more
severely than another for embezzling -a large
one will not, at his second fall, steal simply to
meet a need, but will take all he can lay hands
on to.meet the possibilities of judicial caprice.
6 * #
If Judges cared for one another’s opinions,
the wide discrepancies between their sentences
for similar offences would have long ago caused
them to meet in council and determine an
approach to a common basis of thought as to
punitive methods ; and if they regarded public
sentiment otherwise than as a thing to spurn,
they would make some effort to allay the shame
and irritation which the public feel when they
find one member of the bench rioting savagely
among pains and penalties to overwhelm the
embezzler of a few pounds and another cour-
teously despatching for a brief recess the em-
bezzler of tens of thousands. A few well-known
recent cases will put our meaning clear. At the
Sydney Quarter Sessions the other day Judge
Backhouse gave six years to bank-manager
Bradley, whose defalcations admittedly
amounted to £20,000 or over, and whose proven
embezzlements came to £6040 ; while Judge Fos-
ter, at Hay, sentenced Land Agent Sidney H.
Haynes, whose total defalcations amounted to
£l6O, to eight years’ hard labour! The very
same week Judge Innes sentenced John
Morgan Dkuce, whose embezzlements amounted
to £5OOO, to four years’ penal servitude, while
Judge Windeyer gave John Dodd Beckett
two years and a-half for embezzling £6B 10s.
Where, w r e would ask, is the line of reason in
these diverse conceptions of punitive justice ?
It is true that though offences be equal the
habitual criminal merits heavier punishment
than the criminal novice, and under shelter of
the supposition of such past character, judicial
vagaries often escape unscathed. But, taking
Haynes and Bradley, Haynes and Laser -
touche, Haynes and Druce, and Haynes and
any other of the recent victims of the embezzl-
ing mania, the Hay and Balranald land-agent’s
character, public and private, was equal to that
of any of them. No allegation of any previous
impropriety was produced against him, and evi-
dence was established that when arrested he was
preparing to gradually refund to the Treasury
the sums he had misappropriated or ‘ ‘ advanced
to himself.” Now, why should Haynes have
got eight years for £l6O, and Bradley only six
years for the proven £6040, and Druce only four
for the proven £5OOO ? These figures may be
placed in a row and looked at from many
points, but we confidently assert that there is
no point of view from which they do not con-
stitute an arraignment of judicial capacity to
apportion sentences.
* # *
This brings us to our old contention. The
jury which declares a man guilty should declare
how far lie is guilty. The discretion as to
sentences now given to judges should be given
to the juries. A juror, like a judge, may err;
he may indulge, like a judge, in the luxuries of
the table, and approach his duty next morning
with a torpid liver and congested blood-vessels ;
he may, like a judge, have found when young
that wine made him sleepy, and thus cultivated
a habit of bilious abstemiousness at feud with
the requirements of his gastric juices ; and, as
a man is the creature of his secretions, he may
in the performance of duty exhibit therefore
malignant severity or indulge in weak pity.
But there is this to be said of that juror—he
will have eleven others to correct him. A man
might as well be tried by one juror as sen-
tenced by one judge. Trial by one’s peers covers
the whole ground of acquittal and punishment,
and to this view society must come. Until this
point is reached the interposition of the judge
will continue to be a spectacle of power anoma-
lously exercised and of personal caprice which
goads commonsense to revolt.
“Failed to get Evidence.”
The Victorian authorities are holding an official
inquiry into the conduct of a certain constable
named O’Callaghan, who is charged with gross
neglect of duty, inasmuch as he “ failed to get
evidence.against, Margaret Ryan,” and should
the charge of failing to get evidence lie sub-
stantiated, Mr. O’Callaghan will probably
slide down that steep track which does not lead
to promotion. The accusation brought against
Margaret Ryan was one of homicide, and to
the disgust of an intelligent and cultured nation
it fell through. A good many months ago Mr.
Ryan, husband of the prisoner, was found,
either drunk or insensible or both, on the read
some distance from his home, and when he died
shortly afterwards the prevailing impression
was that Ids crust had been rent asunder
through falling on one of those eight-pound
masses of blue-metal with which an intelligent
department loves to repair the highways ot
Australia. Mrs. Ryan was looked at by the
sagacious eye of the law to see if her conduc
could throw any further light on the matter,
but she was absent when the event took place,
and apparently quite undisturbed, and there
were no brains or gore about her, and no visibt 0


symptoms of a deadly conflict, so the matter
dropped for the time. After a while, however,
some new suspicions were aroused, and the
widow was arrested, but owing to the neglect
of Constable O’Callaghan in failing to get
evidence against her she was acquitted, oo tai
the case is sufficiently simple, and can be
summed up in three propositions: (l)loliceman
O’Callaghan was sent out to gather sufficient
information to hang Elizabeth Ryan ; (2) he
didn’t get the information; (3) Elizabeth
Ryan was not hanged, as a natural consequence.
Whether there was, or was not, any such in-
formation in existence as the authorities wanted,
nobody can tell. The charge against O’Calla-
ghan simply sets forth that he failed to get
evidence, whether it was there or not, and if ho
comes to grief, he will serve as a warning and
an example to the next officer who goes out on
a similar errand. The police force is naturally
divided into three classes—the first consisting
of policemen who get evidence that actually
exists; the second, of policemen who get evi-
dence anyhow; and the third, of policemen who
don’t get evidence, possibly because there isn’t
any to get; and this latter class are a horror
and an aggravation to their superiors, and a
disgrace to the traditions of the force. And as
the O’Callaghan plainly belongs to the third
category, he is not likely to be a success in that
s( a .ion of life to which Providence has called
him. An officer who lets a really good and
interesting hanging fall through for want of
evidence is a failure.
# * *
The case, however, presents another aspect.
If Mr. O’Callaghan had been a sufficiently
energetic man, and had accumulated enough
shady and dubious evidence, or any other kind
of evidence, to hang Mrs. Ryan, it would then
have been the business of that prisoner’s
solicitor, if she had one, to hunt up testimony
on the other side. If he neglected to do so, it
is a matter of absolute certainty that the police
authorities would not have taken any proceed-
ings against him for “ failing to get evidence.”
If the evidence was waiting for him in the
next street, and he declined to go there and
look for it because there wasn’t enough money
in the job, or because his corns were troubling
him, or on account of the weather, Mrs. Ryan
would probably have been hanged for no other
reason than that her legal representative was
too much exhausted to go round the corner.
If he hired a cheap and idiotic counsel, on the
other hand, and this individual neglected to
make use of the evidence when it was found,
nobody would have instituted an inquiry into
that circumstance either. Or if the counsel
failed to turn up at all—if he merely collected
his fee and stayed away, and left Mrs. Ryan
to toss up with Providence whether she would
hang or not—the police would certainly not
take any steps to make that legal gentleman sit
up for his conduct. There is plainly abundant
legal machinery to squash Constable O’Cal-
laghan if he “failed to get evidence” against
a prisoner, but there is none at all to squash
anybody who fails to get evidence for the de-
fence of the same prisoner. Consequently,
O’Callaghan, or any other individual in the
same situation, is likely to get evidence in
future with the vigour of a man whose billet is
at stake, and with the calm confidence of a
policeman who knows that the prisoner’s lawyer
has no such incentive, and consequently is not
likely to create much trouble.
* * *
If the prisoner has no lawyer and no money
the path of the typical O’Callaghan is made
still smoother for his large and weary feet. In
that case the prisoner has to get his own evi-
dence, and as he is locked up and can’t get
evidence at all, he has to leave the matter
entirely to others, who, as a rule, leave it alto-
gether. No one can prosecute the prisoner for
“failing to collect testimony” on his own
behalf, or any such charge, because the first
sign that he has neglected his duty in this
important matter consists in the Judge sen-
tencing him to be hanged, and it is obviously
impossible to hang a man and prosecute him as
well. A man who is going to be hanged is
impervious to imprisonment or penal servitude,
and unless he is flogged for not gathering facts
for his own defence, and then hanged for want
of the facts, he can’t be reached on this charge
at all. But as the prisoner himself is safely
deposited out of sight and hearing, the logical
course is obviously to prosecute all his friends
and relations for not getting the necessary
information on his behalf, and unless this is
done the course of justice is lopsided and un-
even. The next O’Callaghan may fill up his
case with lies and glaring perjury rather than
risk being ejected from his situation and forced
to sell fish for a livelihood, and nobody on the
other side has any sufficient incentive to burst
up his assertions. The accused, of course,
has incentive enough, but as he is planted
in a secure stone place as if he were
coal, and is not allowed to give way to
any natural craving to be on O’Callaghan’s
track, he does not count. When an inactive
and somnolent officer can be prosecuted for not
proving Mrs. Ryan was guilty it follows that —
if that same officer had proved her guilt—some-
one on the other side should have been pro-
ceeded against for not demonstrating her inno-
cence. If the man who conducts the prosecu-
tion is fighting for his position and all his future
prospects, and the man who conducts the de-
fence is only fighting for a fee which will be
paid just the same even if he stays in bed all
through the trial, the proceedings are ridicu-
lously uneven.
* * *
It is one of the noblest features of the Aus-
tralian judicial system that no person goes un-
defended on a capital charge. In some of the
provinces that cheap and useless barrister, Mr.
Thomas Noddy, junior, is generally induced to
take up the case at the last moment, gratis,
without any evidence or any preparation or any
knowledge of the circumstances whatever ; and
in others the law now makes arrangements to
pay the same individual for his services at a
moderate rate, the other circumstances being
much the same as of old. In amazingly few
instances is there any c nee called for the
defence. The prisoner u unable to hunt up
evidence himself; he can seldom stand the
tremendous expense of hiring anyone to hunt
up evidence for him, the men whom the police
arrest on capital charges being all in exceed-
ingly low circumstances; and even where the
State allows the prisoner a certain sum for
his defence it only allows enough to hire a
cheap and muddled barrister, and leaves nothing
over to find materials for that barrister to
go upon. Consequently the defence consists
entirely on the “brilliant speech” of Mr. Noddy,
and as he knows practically nothing, and can
know nothing, of the matter except what he
has heard from the prosecution, his oration con-
sists partly of generalities and chiefly of wild
clawings and poundings at the empty air.
The various links of circumstantial evidence
may be all idiocy and hard lying, but this sort
of barrister is utterly ignorant of the fact, and
can oidy accept them as true, and try to explain
them away by asserting that his client is a
lunatic, or by vague whizzing noises concerning
Magna Charta, and the “ inalienable rights of a
British citizen,” and other matters quite as
remote and unavailing. The prisoner himself
may be equally ignorant, and equally unable to
explain matters. The cheap sixpenny knife
with blood and hair on the blade may be his or
it may not —the local ironmonger may have laid
in a dozen of the same pattern, and it may be
impossible to get at the truth without tracing
them all, for possibly it was the seventy-second
one of the lot with which the crime was com-
mitted. The prisoner’s boots may exactly fit
the footmarks on the high-road, on the strength
of which the case is built up, and considering
the absolute similarity of thousands of factory-
built boots, he may be utterly unable to tell
whether his boots actually caused these
marks or not unless he sees them. The
detectives have probably spent eight weeks’
hard labour and a large amount of
money in getting up their evidence, and
if the prisoner can hire an equal number of
detectives for a similar period he may be able
to find and produce another man whose boots
and whose knife fit the case just as well as his
do. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred,
however, he is utterly unable to hire any
detective, and if he should by any chance be in
a position to do such a thing, there is nobody
whom he can hire except the useless and extor-
tionate private enquiry office fiend. And in the
hundredth case he is probably hanged when his
investigations are half through, because to
disprove the police evidence he has to begin his
proceedings where the police leave off. The
police may spend three months in hunting up
the one damning fact which will hang the
prisoner, but if he requires anything like the
same period, he will be comfortably hanged
before his business is half through.
* * *
Consequently he depends on the eloquence of
his cheap and hollow-sounding counsel, who
chiefly clears his throat because he has nothing else
to do, and who might as well lecture about the
crater of Vesuvius so far as any practical results
are concerned. Then the Judge sums up the
case and demolishes the wretched counsel’s
argument in one act. He also tells the
jury that the prisoner’s case has been care-
fully and ably represented, and, as a rule, the
jury utterly fails to see that the prisoner’s
case has never even been opened. And
so they bring in a verdict of guilty, and
the Bench solemnly informs the accused
that he has had an impartial hearing —
which is a hollow lie—and an equitable trial—
which is a glaring falsehood. And occasionally
it throws in a courteous allusion to the able
manner in which the evidence has been col-
lected for the prosecution. What becomes of
the police who don’t collect evidence in an
able manner, or at least in a sufficiently able
manner to hang any prisoner, nobody inquires,
but when the case of Mr. O’Callaghan is dis-
posed of a certain amount of light will probably
be thrown on this branch of the subject.
The “Society” Disease.
When account is taken of the many depart-
ments of human indulgence into which the iron
hand of legislation is sought to be thrust, it
comes as a surprise to find that there exists no
company of reformers proclaiming the necessity
of applying prohibitive or restrictive legislation
to the levees, “at homes,” the dinners, balls,
picnics and other swerves and swirls for which
Society, on its public and fashionable side,
displays so rapacious an appetite. When a man
with frayed sleeves, broken boots and a bottle
of beer appears in public many persons become
deeply affected. They connect the slatternly
state of his raiment with the liquor, and con-
stituting themselves an organisation command
Parliament to suppress public-houses. In-
dividuals are disposed to enjoy themselves on
Sundays, and to do so comfortably they require
the convenience of trams and boats. There is
no doubt that in popular enjoyments there is
an alloy of frivolity discordant to minds
screwed up to a severely-serious pitch of
solemnity, and here again on behalf of a shocked
sentiment an organisation creates itself and
marches to Parliament for legislation. There
is a society for putting down the use of
tobacco and one for putting down the use of
coffee. In fact, wherever it can be shown that
a habit, a practice, or an indulgence is followed
in the most remote way by evil, or apparent
evil, to the individual or the community, men
and women hand in their names, constitute
themselves an association, and proceed to urge
Parliament to frame laws prohibitive or restric-
tive of what they consider objectionable. That
is, men and women act and have acted thus in
regard to all matters except what we may call
the intoxication of fashionable life. We don’t
say that the associations referred to are to be
approved ; what we point to is the strange fact
that, with all this readiness to start crusades,
sometimes with the most trifling issues in view,
no crusaders are forthcoming as an organisation
or association, to direct their collective power
against society’s delirious extravagances.
# * *
On the ocean of alcoholism many thousands
drift. Sodden, soaked, they disappear, stupor
paralysing their brains, knowing nothing >f
whence they came or whither they go,
negations of reason and instinct. But on the
ocean ©f fashionable life, who will say
that the calamities are not greater? The
young and the old are there, with passions
mad as ever sprang from the wine-cup, purposes
more fell because more deliberately planned and
pursued, robbery is there, lust is there, murder
is there. The father is taught that it is his
duty to put wife and daughters to the front.
He may be one who finds little attraction for
himself in the garish throng ; but there is a
tyranny of circumstance to which he bows. To
the front they go, not because of intellectual or
moral worth, but because he is supposed to be
financially able to take his turn in keeping
society in feasts and pastimes. He may lie
financially able or he may not, but once in,
retreat without ignominy is almost impossible.
And if he be notable, then all the demons in the
abyss of man’s nature charge his ears with
whispered counsels. He may be one who can
turn his face about and march his family back
through an avenue of murdered hopes and >
trampled vanities, or he may be one who will
so strain his forces to sustain the .position, that
heart and brain will break and let him through
to a premature grave ; but if he be either, he
will be exceptional. Generally, once there he
will strive to stay.
# * *
Years may pass and such a man may still
stand in the front. As he grows feeble and his
eye dims, he may be pointed to as an example
of a fashionable life, which is also an honour-
able one. But what about the skeletons in
his cupboard? Had Bank-manager Bradley,
the last-tried Sydney defaulter, succeeded
in his rink speculations, would the world ever
know that only for peculations the speculations
would not have been born? His disgrace is
not a consequence of his having been a thief
and a forger, but in consequence of the public
having lost its taste for the amusement of
skating. Had the taste survived, or better
partnership management been employed,
Bradley would probably have posed as an ideal
entertainer to the end. The case is, we con-
tend, typical. The average man, with a family,
will be, owing to the false glory with which
“ society” is enveloped, easily persuaded to go
in ; and once in, the average man will not order
his wife and daughters to gather their skirts
about them and go out again while a chance of
holding ground is visible. He will straighten
his white tie with one hand, and with the other
feel if the phial of poison is safe in his inside
pocket. In his coffers is stolen gold. The
entertainment of the night will be paid for by
.the product of embezzlement, forgery, or the
malversation of trust-funds. If he is found out,
he has the poison or a prospect of escape by
flight.
* * #
How many prominent men in white ties
carry poison phials or loaded revolvers on
their persons, as Bradley says he did ?
How many start as they think they see
detectives in the shadows of their ball-
rooms, and cry out in their dreams as their
imaginations show them incriminating investi-
gations into their accounts going on ? The next
day these will be at the levee, the at-home, the
resort of pleasure, however, and so the swirl will
proceed until poison or shot or the gaol closes
the career tragically, or a turn of luck enables the
criminal to put back the plunder and find once
more the peace of an easy conscience. We have
called it surprising that, in a community where
crusaders can organise to put down cigarette-
smoking, there is no organisation to turn the
light of honest common sense on to the gigantic
engine of mischief which is. worshipped under
the name ofsociety.” No rock with a pirate
beacon blazing from its summit was ever so
remorseless a destroyer of the ships attracted
to it as is this rapacious monster of those who,
without the equipment of necessary wealth,
come within its influence. Through it wives are
corrupted, daughters dishonoured, and fathers
and sons driven from the peace of upright lives.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Philosophy and Foolery.
The fame of Tolstoi, which owes a good deal
to the modern Anglo-Saxon disposition to fossick
out strange idols, will scarcely be enlarged by
his latest deliverances on the great “ booze and
baccy ” question. The Russian novelist, being
himself a convert to the doctrine of non-
indulgence in everything that is nice, declares
“ it is not inclination, nor pleasure, nor distrac-
tion, nor amusement that gives us the universal
habit of consuming hashish, opium, wine and
tobacco, but the necessity for concealing from
oneself the records of one’s conscience.” This
may possibly explain the wherefore of a closing-
time push into a Moscow pub., or account for
the Russian sassiety ladies being so fond of
cigarettes on Sunday, but as a lesson for civilisa-
tion in general it is solemnly inane. When a
two-year-old Australian shrieks for a spoonful
of wine in his cold water, or exhibits a marked
preference for the milk that contains a nip
of brandy, he isn’t seeking to deaden his
memories of the flattened humming - top
that he took into the backyard and delibe-
rately thumped with a hammer. Neither
does a growing lad smoke brown paper behind
the fowlhouse in order that he may vomit up
his remorse for having played the wag. First
he smokes because it seems manly; presently
he smokes to air his accomplishment; next he
sucks at a pipe for the joy of getting it
coloured ; finally he becomes a human chimney,
because he derives real or imaginary pleasure
from his draws and puffs. Millions of poor
fellows daily allay their cravings for more
dinner with half a pipeful of tobacco, or a
melancholy chew. They have far less pain in
their consciences than in their stomachs.
Tolstoi’s ideas bear eloquent testimony to the
barbarism of a country whose ruler has to sleep
in a suit of armour, and can’t sit down sud-
denly for fear of exploding a mine. His mind
is provincial. What does the genius know of
this sunny land of ours, where the craftiest
swindles, as well ai the boldest daylight rob-
beries, are .committed by men who “ never
touch' anything ” which they can’t put into
their pockets ? Living out of the hurly-burly,
Tolstoi is manifestly ignorant of the fact
that the professional card-player “sharps” on
soda-water, and that the habit of total-
abstinence from tobacco and alcohol is quite the
ashion amongst those clear-skinned young mis-
creants who live upon the earnings of the demi-
monde. They, like lots of temperance
financiers, wash out the records of their con-
sciences with soft-tack. “A small squash, if
you please,” murmurs the pious land-boomer;
“ lemonade and mrsberry for me,” says Flash
Flo’s fancy-man. Strong drink makes us reck-
less, tobacco has a tendency to make us lazy
and dreamy. There are good men and true
who swear off' either indulgence from honourable
motives. Liquor also warms a naturally cold
heart until it becomes generous, and a calm pipe
creates compassion. There are bad men, d d
bad men, who take care to steer clear of these
“ vices,” in which virtues lie concealed.
Tolstoi, with a singular disregard for logic
in his reasoning, brackets together the
Eiffel Tower and obligatory military ser-
vices as equal illustrations of the world’s
squiffiness. He argues that the circumstance
of a company building the Parisian Tower, and
the further circumstance that millions of per-
sons have paid to get atop of it, proves that
everybody concerned must be blind drunk. He
doesn’t seem to understand that the financial
success of a bold scheme is convincing evidence
of the promoters’ sobriety. As for the illustra-
tion of compulsory military service —a state of
things which is patiently endured by the tem-
perate French, and mocked at by the bibulous
Britishers why, it merely proves that a
brilliant Russian writer of fiction can be a cast-
iron fool on questions of cosmopolitan fact.
Tolstoi has started to study human nature at
the wrong end. He has got to learn, no doubt,
that savage races never lose the desire to kill
and eat one another until they have tasted rum,
and no great naked nation has eve; been satis-
factorily civilised in the absence of vhat divine
spirit. Nevertheless, people smoke because it
is soothing and conducive to partial anaesthesia.
Therefore, Tolstoi’s “ conscience ” is probably
also lulled by “baccy;” but, it is not evident
that forgetfulness is an essential to the develop-
ment of immorality.
A Beastly Democrat.
Chief-Justice Lillev, of Queensland, lias ,
trodden on quite a number of ancient political
corns by attending a trades-union meeting, and
listening to the singing of the spirit-stirring
“ Marseillaise,” and when Parliament meets it
is expected that someone will “ call attention ”
to his conduct. What will happen after atten-
tion has been “ called ” is not known, but it is
vaguely assumed that it will be something
horrible, and that the Government will come
down with a roar and a ghastly crash on the
offender. Nominally, of course, a judge is not
in any sense responsible to Parliament for his
actions, so long as he discharges his duties
honourably and with reasonable intelligence,
and does not break all the ten commandments
at once, but in practice this freedom amounts
to very little. He has a sort of general license
to howl aloud for the cause of Property, and
when he does so the authorities invariably de-
cline to interfere on the ground that the bench
is not subject to political control; but should he
be suspected of an inclination to howl even in a
whisper for the cause of Labour then his sacred
character falls to pieces on the instant. The
charges against Sir Charles Lilley are three-
fold, and any one of the three is serious enough
to prove fatal. In the first place, he attended a
trades-union gathering, and though every poli-
tician in the Queensland Assembly regards
trades-unionism—when a general election is on
—as the noblest institution in the country, most
of them would as soon attend a snake, or a
quantity of condemned fish and guano, at any
other time. The men who propose to “ call
attention ” to the Chief Justice’s conduct have
almost all grovelled abjectly to the Unions and
the Churches and anything else that could get
them billets and votes, but they object to the
horny son of toil when there is nothing to be
gained by him, on account of his obvious want
of “ respectability,” and the bag of tools which
he carries on his back. Consequently, they feel
disgusted at a man who lias voluntarily associ-
ated himself with anybody or anything belong-
ing to Labour, just in the same way as the
fatted Archbishop shudders when he rubs
against one of his “ beloved brethren ” when
the “ brother ” is engaged in the honourable
avocation of carting dirt. In the second
place, Sir Charles Lilley listened without
protest to the singing of the “ Marseillaise, ”
and apparently the Government dislikes that
fiery hymn, and recognises that its denuncia-
tion of tyrants is a direct insult to itself
collectively and individually. Just here the
question naturally arises—supposing Judge
Lilley had attended a gathering of zoologists
who had met to consider the extinction of bulgy
reptiles, and the Government had suddenly
resolved that it was the reptiles alluded to—
what then ? The “ Marseillaise ” existed
before Queensland was heard of, and there is no
more reason why the Griffith Ministry should
boil over about that martial hymn than about
the voluminous curses of the Hebrew prophets.
And in the third place, the Chief Justice neg-
lected to get up on his hind legs and curse when
the meeting groaned at the Government. It
seems a gruesome suggestion to make, but,
perhaps, Sir Charles doesn’t like the Govern-
ment, and therefore simply let the meeting
groan. He couldn’t have prevented it groaning
anyhow, and he isn’t paid his salary for the
express end and purpose that he may admire
the Griffith Cabinet, and as he didn’t groan
himself he preserved a strictly impartial atti-
tude, so there doesn’t seem to be much to
complain of. But despite these precautions and
reservations on his part, Sir Charles Lilley
has got into a tight place. The charge against
him virtually is that by expressing his sym-
pathy with Labour he has demonstrated that he
cannot be trusted to adjudicate in any ques-
tions that may arise between Labour and
Capital—in other words, he may happen to
adjudicate the wrong way. He might have
dined at a bankers’ institute, or appeared at a
pastoralists’ banquet, or fraternised with a man
who wanted to “fire low” and demolish all
unionists, and the party of Property would
still have trusted him ; but instead of doing
these things, he appeared at a trades-union
gathering, and consequently the varnish of his
outer respectability has cracked.


A Tale of Three Lunatics.
I he latest steep assertion from the “ disturbed
districts ” in Queensland is to the effect that the
shearers camps are full of prisoners who have
been seized by the strong hand of violence and
anarchy, and dragged away from their lawful
associations to be slaves in a damp and leaky
lent. these captives are all peaceful men who
desired to work honestly for the squatter upon
his own terms, and to dwell in harmony with all
mankind ; but the brutal unionist keeps them
m chains and misery, and guards them with
guns and other weapons, and scares them with
hideous threats lest they should attempt to
escape. r J hree of them, however, succeeded in
dying to a place of refuge—in fact it is on the
statements of these three that the whole story
rests and there the Age correspondent met
them and dished up their piteous narrative.
Curiously enough he starts each interview with
an emphatic assertion that the individual inter-
' i®wed was not mad, neither was he drunk, nor
subject to delusions, nor otherwise mentally in-
capacitated. Concerning the first victim : —
T found him in the hospital for observation of his
sanity. He was weak and nervous, but quite able to aive
a clear, intelligible account of himself. , . . He was
invalided from China owing to a fall from aloft which in-
jured his eye, but lean not otherwise affected. He said
about four weeks ago he had a queer feeling in his
•head, and had some drinks, but was only drunk
t A \ .u only poillt 011 which he seems crazy is
ns belief that the men were digging a grave for him near
ins tent. . . The second man . . had had half-a-
dozen drinks since a fortnight before Christmas when he
had a small spree. ... He showed no sign either of
drinking or madness. . . . The third refugee .
showed no signs of mental weakness , though recovering
horrors dnnkin " b ° Ut a fortni - ht with a touch of
Xow, nobody asserted that the three men who
propounded the gruesome narrative above re-
ferred to were drunk, or insane, or just recover-
ing from delirium tremens, until the daily
press went out of its way to point out that they
were not, and the one thing that damages the
writer s case is his own protest. And to illus-
trate this point would the Age allow the same
correspondent write a paragraph like this : —
. o 1 interviewed the Chief Secretary this morning, and he
assured me that the Government would keep order at
any cost. He showed no signs of mental weakness and
dm not appear to have been drinking violently. He fell
on Ins head some time ago, but is not seriously affected
and is quite able to give a clear, intelligible account of
leper H ° d ° 6S ‘ 10t S8em t0 be a hovvIill S maniac or a
Unless the Chief Secretary was very far gone
the Age would probably take him for granted
and leave out that explanation altogether. And
unless its three escaped shearers looked very
much like three lunatics it would probably have
done the same in their case also.
A Husband’s Rights.
Ceorge Hoaee, a Daylesford (Yic.) jeweller,
has run away rather than “ face the scandal”
of prosecuting the jealous husband who took
corners oft him with a wood-axe. Little sym-
pathy is likely to be wasted upon this chipned
Lothario, in that he was giddy and they
found him out. Nevertheless,'' Hoare’s deter-
mination to hide his diminished head will rob
t he Law of a most desirable opportunity to lay
down rules for the better guidance of Othello,
as well as for the preservation of unscrupulous
lovers, be they jewellers, aides-de-camp, or—
humph 1 — even vice-regal personages. Ob-
viously, a husband, suddenly shocked by the
discovery that the wife he believed to be vir-
tuous has been quite otherwise, is not in such a
case accountable for what he does to the other
fellow, if the other fellow be within arm’s
leach. An uncontrollable impulse compels him
to strike, with or without a weapon, at the
intruder—always provided that the intruder
hasnt already committed further immorality
by knocking the avenger down. The punish-
ment of instantaneous death has ere now
been meted out to the man engaged in
coveting his neighbour’s wife when his
neighbour came home unexpectedly. And
the Law has maintained the justice of such
slaughter, even though the outraged husband
may himself have been a less excusable adul-
terer than the person he slew. The Law allows
us to get carried away by certain sacred “feel-
ings ” in the moment of those feelings being
really, truly, and genuinely shocked. But
jealousy, even the most legalised jealousy, does
not entitle a husband to commit a cold-blooded
murder, nor to “ wait upon ’ the man who has
wronged him, with reckless indifference to what
may happen when they meet. The Daylesford
husband, one Thomas Avison, was not startled
out of his senses when he found the jeweller
usiu ping bis position. On the contrary, he
slunk into his home by the back door expecting,
as he told the friend whom be so prudently
asked to accompany him, that he would find
his wife in the jeweller’s arms. It is not
unfair to say that this irate husband had set a
trap for the man who, when caught in a trap,
he proceeded to chop about with a tomahawk.’
As tomahawks are not usually picked up in
bedrooms we may suppose that Mr. Avison,
like a thoughtful Othello, took his instrument
of destruction into the room with him. In
short, he deliberately laid himself out to maltreat
the defenceless man who had robbed him of his
wife’s affection—if he ever had it. The good
folks of Daylesford are understood to be loud
in their praises of Avison, and their denuncia-
tions of the wicked jeweller, but had the latter
brought his wounds into Court he might at
least have enjoyed the satisfaction of hearing
the outraged husband told a few wholesome
truths, and perhaps sentenced to three months.
Avison may think himself lucky that the other
fellow hadn’t pluck to pay back blow for blow,
and the guilty female is to be sympathised with
m her choice of a lover who was even less of a
man than her husband.
Another intelligible item about the Queensland
shearers, from a monopolistic daily paper .
A few more arrests have been made. Evidence of a
violent programme is accumulating. The township is
(jiuefc. Considerable drunkenness is noticeable, but no
disorder.
There is a lot of information in that paragraph
when you come to look at it. Evidence of
violence and wild insurrection is accumulating,
And there is “no disorder.” Bloodshed and
carnage arc impending, but “the township is
quiet.” In a general sort of wav a terrible
calm is raging, and the insurgents are filling the
air with fearful blasts of profound silence. Also
the men have suddenly continued to sit down
and not say anything in a way that justifies the
worst forebodings, and the manner in which
they are doing nothing in particular wants to
be put down, lest they should grow reckless
and do it again. Furthermore, they have been
seen sleeping in an ominous fashion which has
caused the authorities to telegraph for rein-
forcements, and the footprints of the hand of
anarchy are visible in the deep and darkly sus-
picious way that nothing has been heard for a
ong time about the insurrection which hasn’t
taken place.
- ' ♦
Sydney Echo, while admitting that Sir George
t*REY s speech in favour of making the
Governor-Generalship of the Commonwealth
was earnest,” says “it was hardly taken
seriously. So far as that goes, we have never
yet met anyone who took the Echo seriously
unless it was one of the Messrs. Fairfax as he
looked lugubriously at the monthly balance-
sheet. I hat, however, is by the way. Few
motions of reform have been taken seriously
when first promulgated, yet that circumstance
lias not in any way affected the ultimate con-
quest of the race. Mirabeau was taken any-
img but seriously in the States-General, but
the guillotine was not a joke by any means to
those people whose heads tumbled into the
basket. Not that we compare Grey with
Mirabeau, except in this respect; Both were
men who, born aristocrats, learned, in their
intense humanity, to curse their caste and to
extend the power of the Common People.
One of the effects of the traitorous act by which
the federal Convention referred the franchise
of the new Parliament to the States for settle-
ment will be the absolute annihilation of the
vole of the itinerant labourer. Had the Con-
stitution been erected on manhood suffrage it
would only have been a matter of time—per-
haps the thing would have been done in the first
session of the Federal Parliament—for residence
m any one electoral district of one State to have
been made a qualification for voting in that
district, even though the elector was nominally
claimed as a unit of some other State Thus
a Victorian or New South Wales shearer
who goes to the North on shearing tour and
works southwards will almost certainly be dis-
qualified year by year, simply because he is
not sufficiently long a resident in any one
electoral district to qualify. As with shearers
so with thousands of railway navvies, seamen
and the other forms of itinerant labour The
organisation of the vote of nomadic labour is
one of the most pressing needs of the hour.
Up to date, St. Mary’s Cathedral, Sydney,
has cost £143,899 15s. lid. *
We wonder what the electors of Ashfield
woufd say if they knew that the Inspector-General
of 1 oboe and the local Fire Brigade were arranged
with to dragoon them into listening to Mr. Car-
ruthers speech on Thursday week, in case they
had manifested any symptoms of exasperation ?
Provision was also successfully made by Joseph’s
supporters for “packing ” the building.
Someone writes to Sydney D.T., quite
surprised that a water-bottle, refracting the sun’s
rays, should act as a burning-glass. Heaps of
fences and miles of grass are destroyed annually
through flames raised by the sun in conjunction
with carelessly-thrown-down bottles. Fires have
of ten been purposely kindled by such means, and
tall lies are told about the cooking of fat steaks
by the suns rays focussed on a nicely-adjusted
sheet of glass.
There are fifty-four Me s at Millers
i oint. Only one of them was on the electoral roll
for the last Wast Sydney election and the others
walked round the polling-booth ejaculating—
i ney struck me off ’cause they knew I’d bo agin
the Government.” That’s it. Now who is
responsible for the disreputable roll-faking
earned on in all the N.S.W. electorates year after
year ? We should like to see these political wire-
pullers and underground mine-layers get ten years
apiece. J
Editor BuLLEnN,—Sir, permit me to contra-
dict the statement appearing in .your issue of March 28
asserting that the Republican was boycotted by the local
typos, on account of employing boy-labour. The facts
aie these : One man fell ill and no one was engaged in
ms place, thus making the number of boys in excess of
the proportion allowed by the Union. This lasted a week.
Advantage was taken of the circumstance by a bare
quorum of typos, who had been threatened with dismissal
by their employers, to hold a hole-and-corner meeting
and pass a condemnatory resolution. Upon this the
Secretary of their branch, who had formerly been in mv
employ, threw up his position in disgust. I never at any
tune exclusively employed boys, and with the exception
above quoted never broke the rules of the Tvpographical
To" April 2, a 'lB9U UrS ’ P ‘ C ’ B Vomk Carters
An erudite “own correspondent” for
Melbourne Sportsman wrote: “In its way
though not a national affair, the meeting of
Carbine and Marvel, at Randwick, reminded one
of the great event between the English flyer
1 1 fince Charlie, and the I rench mare, Putcitc ” It
might also have reminded one that the animal
matched against Prince Charlie was named
Pcut-Ltre. However, there is a certain appear-
ance of culchaw about Palate, and the Spoilsman
historian would seem to have a natural turn for
picking up the French language, as she is spok
seventeen years ago, as the present writer ra-
ni embers, the “ talent ” used to shock police ears
by talking of that “sanguinary Pertater.’'
At the send-off given in London to Phil.
Mennell, who used to work the cable for the Age
Sydney Gaily Telegraph—S. A. Advertiser
combination, a great deal of slobber was poured
on the cable-crammers. Henniker Heaton said
It appalled him to think at periods of great impulses
such as the recent labour crisis, what momentous conse-
quences the two or three men addressing all Australia
through the cable daily might through prejudice or
ignorance or want of kindliness bring about.
Now, everyone who knows anything of the inter-
nal working of an Australian newspaper office is
aware that whatever the responsibility of the well-
paid London sender of the skeleton of news may
be, that of the local “interpreter,” who gags at
the hidden in the scanty words, is far
The latter is, in many offices, a poor
hack paid 355. a week or so. Here is a sample of
the skeleton cables which he has to lick into
shape :
Australian Investment dividend four—Salisbury O’Brien
postponed—Tupper reciprocal states result severe Canada
England—Russia massing Polish German frontier-Tisz i
resigned—Pilling precarious—Baird judgment irregular -
Exclusion Pelican injunction refused proprietary—Boi a
partists recognise Victor—Privy reversed Victorian jud ■•-
meat—German Government purchasing coal
Cartwright ridicules treason.
Sydney University students are sadly
Jacking' in self-control. A course of Marshall’s
ionic Nervine is recommended.
florist Maude, of King-street, beautifully
decorated Government House ballroom and two
drawing-rooms for the late chavoo.
Recent events have degraded N.S.W. pro-
fessional sculling to the level of pedestrianism.
Prize-fighting up to date is respectable in com-
parison.
Mr. F. E. Joseph is a candidate for one of
the vacant A.M.P. directorships. He is a son of
Hon, S. A. Joseph, M.L.C., of Montefiore,
Joseph and Co., and as a clear headed, cautious,
energetic man of business has proved himself a
chip of the old block.
“As the letter signed “M.L.A.,” con-
tribnted to Sydney Evening News on the subject
or Past Sydney election, contains the phrase “a
giant service to the country” in its first three
lines, it is perfectly safe to attribute the author-
ship to John Haynes.
t 1 one need be surprised at ex-Freetrade
Secretary Pulsford getting a bad hearing at his
election meetings. Under the most favourable
circumstances he can’t be heard five rows away
iiom his front teeth. Pulsford is a nice man fora
small, very small, political tea-party.
At the close of the Convention almost
everybody was thanked, but there was one trifling
°nnss’on. There was no vote of thanks to the
i iW* taxpayer for bearing the expense of the
whole show. The direct cost of permitting
Parkes to pose for another title amounts to
thousands of pounds.
As was generally anticipated under the
plural-voting iniquity, the East Sydney election
resulted in the easy return of a representative of
Capitalism. Here are the figures :—Bradley
(Beer, Projection and Jackrobertsonism), 1502:
Pulsford (Cast-iron Foreign-trade and Imperial
Federation), 1332; Cotton (Labour), 1188.
Sydney Morning Herald in a leader
says that Sir George Grey at the Convention
unfortunately allowed his whole effort and
attention to be taken up with one or two side
issues.” Let us twist this into shape: Grey
unfortunately devoted his attention to the bed-
rock of the constitution, the equalisation of the
franchise.
The Victorian loan has been a partial
failure, only two millions out of three having been
tendered for. Apropos, someone has apparently
been forging Chief Justice Higinbotham’s signa-
ture to an article in Greater Britain depre-
cating further Australian loans, for the Chief
Justice has denied the authorship of the article
ascribed to him.
An apparently inspired paragraph from
Sydney D.T.
The Convention delegates insisted on building upon
lines against which every instinct of Sir Henry Parkes’
political nature revolts, consequently he sat with folded
arms nearly all the time.
What does this mean ? Does it not mean that the
slippery Parkes, should it suit him, will stump
the country against his own Constitooshun ?
During the live weeks of the Convention
the Union Jack floated over N.S.W. Parliament
buildings. The other day someone mentioned to
Parkes that the fact had been commented upon—■
(by The Bulletin, which enquired why the flag
should be run up over the Convention when it did
not float over the ordinary sessions of Parliament
and suggested that it was indicative of Parkes’
special loyal effort). Parkes said, “ why Hi
didn’t know the flag was there !” ’
Sir George Grey hammered away so con-
sistently at great democratic principles in the
Convention that four-fifths of the delegates re-
garded him as a bore. Parkes smiled pityingly
at him and winked his eve at other delegates
as though to say, “What an old flapdoodler
“ ,8 » while Cdhes persistently sneered at
the old Pro-Consul. “ The hon. member mis-
understands me,” said Sir George, gently, to the
Hon. Duncan Gillies one afternoon. “I never
have understood the hon. member,” returned
Gillies with a derisive laugh. Grey looked
at him for a second or two, and then said in his
usual slow and smooth style : “I don't misunder-
stand the hon. member; I fathom him.” Gillies
went under.
A cable message has been received by the
N.S.W. Premier, from Agent-General Samuel,
London, in the following terms :
The S l D !f the , 10th > s P eaki »g of Sir Henry Parkes
S A*y s ’ f ri^m ph of that statesman has been remark-
able. He has carried within an incredibly short space of
time a Constitution which makes Australia one. To how
many other living 1 public men can an achievement of
equal greatness be credited ?”
Now, who stands the cost of cabling this inconse-
quential pack of lies across the ocean for the
greater glory of H. Parkes and to again display
the gross and unpardonable ignorance of the
Times ! Hid Saul Samuel put down the £l5 out
of his own private funds ? No fear. Hid Parkes
Hay out of his private funds the cost of a
Collect message? We smile. Our bleeding'
country ! When Parliament meets we may find
out. J
Taken altogether, the N.S.W. delegates
showed up badly during the Federal Convention.
The better the delegates became acquainted with
1 arkes, the more contempt they had for his pro-
fessed ability; M‘Millan was a frivolous fizzle •
Hibbs was a bunch of Chinese crackers, always
popping and spluttering in a weak sort of way •
Abbott was a frost, except in the chair, where he
made the most of his square jaw and iron hand •
Jennings was neither useful nor ornamental ; and
buttor was only of service as Parkes’ man Friday.
Parkes would say : “ Hoes hany gentleman second
this? and look straight at Suttor. Suttor had
perhaps been dozing, until he felt the Eve upon
him, when he would straightway arise from his
trance and second the motion. The delegates
who did most work were those from South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania, with Queensland, Victoria
Maonland, N.S. Wales, and W.A. following in
the order given. Griffith, of Queensland, per-
formed most of the labour, and little Clark of
Tasmania, was close up to him. The man who
wanted to put in a big innings at democratic work
winch should make the day of Australian union
worth celebrating in the future was not permitted
to have a finger in the Constitutional pie, but his
persistency has awakened Australia to the imme-
diate necessity of a strenuous fight for equal
voting and equal justice. This was Old Man Grey.
A Tedeeal Remedy.—We consider it our duty
to inform the general public that, in our opinion
there exist no better remedies in Australia than
Herr Rassmussen’s famous Denmark Herbal
Remedies, which have all the best herbal extracts
federated together, and are consequently capable
of curing any known disease of the blood and
nerves. Head depot : Central Arcade, George-
street (between Liverpool and Bathurst streets),
Sydney. h
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Corsican Brothers.”
Theatre Royal “ London, Day by Day.”
Garrick “ Bridget O’Brien, Esq.”
Criterion “The Colonel.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
School of Arts Vaudeville Company.
Aquarium Bondi.
Aquarium Coogee.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK. -
Theatre Royal “Transported for Life.”
Opera House “ Falka.”
New Bijou “The Schoolmistress.”
Alexandra “ Wages of Sin.”
Princess’ “ The Old Guard.”
“Schoolmistress,” at Sydney Criterion, is
a vastly-improved show. Maggie Moore, the
instructress, who vows, at tire conclusion, to keep
her loafing spouse on low Di/ott, has toned down,
and the others have tinted up; the result is—
harmony. Miss Romer’s timid, faltering, flustered
female is an excellent impersonation. Mr.
Clitherow’s excellent little character sketch of
Otto Bernstein is reminiscent of Baron Von
Mueller. Pattie Browne, at times, so burlesques
the romantic school that she suggests Brown-
Potter, and Dot Boucicault’s “pompous pauper”
is much less Parisian cafe and boulevardian than
on first night. Percy Lyndal looks more of a man
and less of a curate when he wears a beard, and
we should advise him always to don one when “on
the mash.” The after-dinner speech of George
Anson’s apoplectic and irascible Admiral is a very
happy one, and his indictment of the humbug,
Queckett, is even better, though a regular Chinese
puzzle in a logical way. The classical contingent,
with Mr. and Mrs. 8., George Titheradge, Cecil
Ward (they concluded the Brisbane season with
1 Modern Wives,”) open on Friday night, as
previously announced, in “ The Colonel.”
» * » jfc
At Sydney Garrick business has been
good, and the “Widow, Esq.,” has drawn some
illigant dress-circles. .Johnny Sheridan’s new
song, “ The Shwate Kilkenny Band,” is likely to
become very popular. One weak point about the
show is a tendency to withhold all the best people
from the stage in the lump. Johnny skips to
Melbourne Royal on the 24th, and Myra Kemble
opens for a two weeks’ season of “Dr. Bill” or
“My Flat ”on Saturday week. Janet Achurch
follows on Oth May, probably with “Masks and
Faces. ”
* * * *-
At Sydney Her Majesty’s, that lugubrious
and lackadaiscal seaman, “My Jack,” we arc
“jack” about him, gets more support than his
personal merit entitles him to. The blind lady of
Mrs. Rignold is a harmonious, clean-cut and
dignified piece of work, and Jack Sweeney’s Irish
tar furnishes the only glimpse of sunshine the
tearful tale can boast of. The “ Corsican
Brothers ” will be put up on Saturday.
Ht * * *
That series of extraordinary inslances of
the special interposition of Providence, named
ihe Golden Ladder,’ wJI soon be rung down
(in this connection the word “rung” is appro-
priate) at Sydney Royal, and the Sims-Pettit
play “ London, Day by Day ” will be unfolded for
the first time to a Sydney audience on Saturday.
Business at the old house has been highly payable
throughout the season.
** * *
At Sydney Natatorium, last Saturday
afternoon, W. J. Gormley, of the Enterprise
Club son, we believe, of the member for Wagga
—with six watches on him, swam 100yds. in Imin.
and 200yds. in 2min. 25 l-osec., thus beating
the English amateur record by a trifle less than ssec.
Gormley, who makes as much wash as a Balmain
ferry-boat, was too much exhausted to go on in
pursuit of the 220yds. record. However, he’ll
annex that at a later date.
*- * * *
At Sydney School of Arts, Fred. Garnett’s
Silence and Fun ” act is a big feature. The
little man has put on flesh of late years, but is as
nimble and boneless as ever. The glove-fight
between Tom Thumb and Frank Finger, two
sturdy dwarfs, is comical. A new corner-man,
Tommy Rosman, has been engaged, and “the
sensational song and dance ladies, the Sisters
Anderson, have been engaged at an “enormous
salary.” More thirty-pounders? Professor
Rhodes presides at the piano.
** * *
At Coogee Aquarium the Sunday concerts
are being kept up to date by the engagement of
Nina Osborne, Fred. Spencer, Miss Swift, the
siffleuse, and other good people.
*m * *
The sword-contest at Bondi Aquarium,
between Ma’mselle Hermione and Professor Par-
ker, was won by the lady, after a lengthy tussle
and some disputes over the deciding hit, by a
point. The sympathies of the crowd were, of
course, with the representative of the softer sex.
** * *
Had the programme of the preliminary
Albu concerts been selected on similar lines to
the third, it is more than probable that these
talented young ladies would not have had quite
such a large audience as that which greeted them
on their first Town Hall appearance, last Thurs-
day. Not only do Sydney music-lovers like
grand arias, but, in addition to the taste culti-
vated by many admirable local ballad-singers,
they have had many opportunities, from the days
of Catherine Hayes down to those of Charles
Santley and Janet Whytock Patey, of discovering
that simplicity, clearness of enunciation and
feeling” are indispensable for ballad-singing.
Now the forte of the Misses Albu, particularly
Julie, does not lie in that direction. In fact, we
think that the theatrical straining for effect in
“Love’s old, sweet Song,” which broke the time
and destroyed the significance of that delightful
melody, furnished an admirable example of how
ballads should not be sung. This (Thursday)
evening concludes the present season, when the
sisters will sing a duet, and will have more suit-
able matter for the display of their fine, highly-
trained voices than on the last occasion,.
** * *
Arthur Gordon has transferred his Sunday
concerts to the Me-Mel, and Harry Rickards is
utilising the interval prior to his departure by
running the Alathea on the same lines, twice on
that day.
** * *
Planquette’s opera, “ The Old Guard,”
produced at Melbourne Princess’ on Saturday,
seems to consist of Billy Elton in three acts. The
management have mounted little William in a
style worthy to be called immense. They have
supplied him with noble backgrounds and interiors
by Goatcher and Brunton, the usual bevy of


d
6»
INC
'ifCtUBRATio
H
lUßoiyv,
W- »
/'heeler &C?
HEADQUARTERS
—FOR —
Buggies, Phaetons, Waggons, etc.
The F. B. WHEELER CO.,
218 Castlereaglx Street, Sydney.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 13th April, 1891,
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the Conveyance of
Mails between Barraba and Elcombe; Cooney
Creek and Hillgrove West; and Brooman and
Brimbramalla.
Tenders will be received up to 11 a.m., on the
6th May next, and must be addressed to the
Secretary to the Post Office, Sydney.
DANIEL O’CONNOR.
Exhibition building,
MELBOURNE,
GRAND NATIONAL BABY SHOW.
WEDNESDAY, 29th April ; THURSDAY, 30th April;
FRIDAY, Ist May ; SATURDAY, 2nd May.
PRIZES, £4OO. PRIZES, £4OO. PRIZES, £4OO.
Awarded as follows :
Class A.—Baby Girls, from 3to 0 months old. Class B,
Baby Girls, from 6 to 12 months old. Class C.—Baby
Girls, from 12 to 18 months old. Class D.—Baby Girls,
from 18 to 30 months old.
Class E. —Baby Boys, from 3to 6 months old. Class F.
—Baby Boys, from 6to 12 months old. Class G.—Baby-
Boys, from 12 to 18 months old. Class H. —Baby Bovs,
from 18 to 30 months old.
Ist prize in each class, £lO ; 2nd prize in each class, £5 ;
3rd prize in each class, £3 15s. Twins, not over 2 h years—
-Ist prize, £lO ; 2nd prize, £5 ; 3rd prize, £3 15s.
TRIPLETS —A Valuable Special Award.
CHAMPION PRIZES, £5O.
£25 for the Best Girl in the Exhibition.
£26 for the Best Boy in the Exhibition.
SPECIAL AWARDS
To the value of about £2OO have been offered to the com-
mittee of management by leading business people in Mel-
bourne, particulars of which will be shortly announced.
TO THE LADIES.
Ladies wishing to exhibit their children must, at time
of entry, clearly fill in the form provided for that pur-
pose, and which may be obtained at the Office, Exhibi-
tion Building- (Nicholson-street entrance).
Entries mnst be made, with the Secretary if possible,
prior to 5 p.m. on the 22nd April. For the convenience
of parents residing- in the country or in adjoining
colonies, entry-forms will be posted free on application.
The Committee have engaged a Special Staff of Trained
Nurses, who will see that every attention and care is
bestowed upon the children and their parents, guardians
or nurses during the Exhibition.
Certificate of registration of birth must be produced to
the judges.
The judging in the several classes will be controlled by
a committee consisting of prominent medical gentlemen.
The awards for the Champion Prizes and Special Prizes
will be made by public vote. Every person paying for
admission to the Exhibition Building will receive a
ballot-paper, upon which they can vote for the children
they consider entitled thereto. This ballot system will
be controlled by a committee, to be elected by the exhi-
bitors themselves.
The committee, which consists of prominent medical
specialists, intend giving lectures every afternoon and
evening to mothers on “Nursing and the General Treat-
ment of Children,” and will distribute a pamphlet for the
guidance of parents,
The limited number of entries are rapidly being
received, and early application is necessary.
On behalf of the Committee of Management,
T. G. HAMPTON, Secretary.
beauty to stand around and smile at his eccentri-
cities and a ballet which, for delirious abandon
and poetry of kick, surpasses all previous efforts
on the Princess’ stage. Its exciting whirl causes
big beads of perspiration to sparkle upon every
manly brow in the house. Its effect upon the
female organisation must be left for the pens of
lady reporters to portray. With Elton laid up,
and the ballet all down with lumbago, there would
be little “Old Guard” left to talk about, however.
It is not an attractive musical work. Certainly
not as taking as the same composer’s “Paul
Jones,” which is poor again by comparison with
his “ Cloches de Corneville.” There are no grand
finales, and no anything in the way of melody
which doesn’t immediately recall a brighter tune
to recollection. But as a farcical military
comedy, written for one character and extrava-
gantly interpreted by the right person, “The Old
Guard ”is distinctly good. The scene is laid m
Napoleonic times, and the story deals with the
gory Corsican’s decree that one of his many
captains shall marry the daughter of a marquis of
the old noblesse. The Marquis, wishing to avoid
such a catastrophe to the blood of his ancestors,
allows his daughter to change places with the
supposed base-born offspring of Elton, a vulgar
village mayor person who maintains his official
position on a business of 16 barrels per week. In
brief, Elton keeps a pub., where the local popula-
tion are expected to get drunk when they are not
singing choruses. Sometimes they sneak away
and ‘ 1 set ’em up ” at a ri val pub. round the corner,
a dereliction of duty that disgusts the mayor
beyond measure. But this by the way. In due
course Elton learns that the two daughters were
mixed up soon after birth, consequently the
ignoble captain is really going to marry the right
girl instead of the wrong girl, as was intended by
the Marquee. Each, girl, however, puts matters
right by falling in love with different fellows who,
for their parts, turn out to be one another, and so
everybody marries somebody in a suitable
“sphere of life.” The Marquee clasps his in-
-1 tended son-in-law to his coat-of-arms without
much family pride, whilst the worthy licensed
victualler escapes the ignominy of becoming
related by marriage to the naughty old nobility
of France. Some small amount of interest
attaches to the musical love affairs of the two
young couples, and the Marquee is not quite a
nonentity. Elton is fully three-quarters of the
plot, though. He has never worked harder with
his head, legs, or hands, and some of his acrobatic
business with a musket is an entertainment in
itself. He takes such complete possession of the
opera that one cannot imagine it ever being suc-
cessfully performed (on this side of the line) with-
out his assistance. Ida Osborne (she, like Flora
Graupner, improves in the art of dressing)
is a vocal success; likewise Florence Young,
who begins to look happy and to show a
considerable intelligence on the stage. Ryley’s
dreadful way of combing his hair is the only thing
against him in the monotonous part of the Captain,
but Leumane is less satisfactory in a feebler char-
acter. Howard Yernon is always at home as the
noble fellow conspirator of the little mayor,
although he unfortunately happened tobea liUe
hoarse (original joke!) on Saturday. Vio.ut
Varley, with a pleasant song, and Flora Graup-
ner, without a note, chip in occasionally along
with the Old Guard which gives the opera an un-
suitable name.
** * *
“Falka,” at the Opera House, loses “go”
as time progresses. Lay Brother Pelican, in the
hands of Knight Aston, is found to be a growing
affliction, also such trifles as Lena Salinger’s
smile are giving some cause for complaint. All
things considered, the setting up of the other
opera will surely necessitate an early withdrawal
of “ Falka,” in which nothing, except Snazelle’s
cultivated -warble, seems to improve on acquaint-
ance. Miss Merivale has novelties in store, they
say, and the dress-circle is evidently waiting for
one to be fetched out.
** * *
Business in the more expensive parts of
Melbourne Bijou took a sudden spurt with the
production of “ Doll’s House ” on Wednesday of
last week. Sassiety came along and yawned in
such considerable quantities that Ibsen’s play was
expected to pay its way for eight nights instead
of three, and all idea of producing “ The Wager ”
was joyfully abandoned. By Saturday, how-
ever, the demand for petty details, spiced with
strange philosophy, had collapsed, and Miss
Achurch jumped about before one of the thinnest
houses of a poor season. Probably the public
have lost more interest in the actress than in
Ibsen. Her style, always hard, has become
harder during her residence in Australia, and her
oddities have no longer the charm of novelty to
recommend them. The characters of Nora and
Torvald Helmer, as played by Miss Achurch and
Charles Charrington, are placed in impossible
positions. No such snuffling prig as Torvald
could monopolise the heart and soul of Ibsen’s
Nora for five years, or five minutes. A man of
his sort —the frock-coated, white-livered, plati-
tudinising pillar of commerce and dull “ respecta-
bility ’’—never enjoys the love of any woman save
the mother who suckled him, and even mother
prefers his wicked younger brother, who is reck-
less, amusing, and a general disgrace to the
family. Neither could Miss Aehurch’s Nora play
at being a “little songbird,” and scream for
maecaroons, previous to the arrival of that mys-
terious miracle. “New Magdalen ” goes up on
Wednesday for two nights, and on Friday the
star benefits in “ Forget-Me-Not.” A managerial
benefit is not an event to gush over, however.
** * *
The regular Bijou followers will roll up
again on Saturday to welcome some of the old
B. and B. faces in “The Schoolmistress,” and
clap the two paws of good fellowship together in
honour of Maggie Moore.
** * *
‘‘Belphegor, the Mountebank,” is well
suited to an Alexandra audience, who like to take
their pathos in a plain, straightforward way, and
want nothing left to the imagination. Dampier s
performance, which runs on Charles Dillon lines,
even to the make-up, kept the boys very good on
Saturday night, and fetched a big burst of
applause at the end of the second act. Miss Lily,
too, and Mabel Russell (as the Henri who is
balanced on the back of a chair) played their best,
and the whole show was put through with suffi-
cient feeling to satisfy the not yet extinct craving
for a weep. It will be a pity when there are no
more people found willing to enter into the simple
joys and sorrows of Belphegor and his family, and
derive homely comfort from the thought that it
all came right in the end. Mr. Dampier starts
his “Shakespearean Fridays” this week with “As
You Like It.” On Saturday afternoon he gives
the use of the big house for a matinee-benefit to
the widow and orphans of Mr. Fewster, an Akgus
compositor, who was recently killed on the rail-
way-line. . And in the evening he revives “The
Wages of Sin,” which in real life are usually £5OOO
a year and a periodical trip to Yurrup.
** * *
“Moths” leave the Royal after Friday,
and may anon be seen, gnawing away at the ermine
of sassiety on the Princess’ stage. One last word
of praise may be given to Miss Nethersole’s
infinite tenderness in the last act, her interviews
with Lord Jura and the ’Murrikan duchess being
each of them two-column subjects, and worthy of
a poem. There is only room for the poem—
After this artistic production—George Darrell.
He is going to “star”—for George always does
star until we wonder what we are —for a grand
farewell fortnight, and the trouble starts on Satur-
day with “ Transported for Life.” They say he
intends to transport himself to England. But not
for life. No such bad luck.
** * *
All the other shows are carrying on in an
average manner —Gaiety, Victoria, Waxworks,
Cyclorama, and the Aquarium Alligator. The
People’s Palace has left off fetching the ungodly,
because there is a limit to the fascinations of even
a Punch and Judy Show. But the church people
are still trickling in at a low figure, and as the
expenses are said to have been covered all the
money now paid at the turnstiles is understood to
go straight to the good cause. On April 29th.
another Baby Show opens at the Exhibition.
Babies, it seems, are fatter and more plentiful
than ever. Candidates will be accepted, too, up
to the age of 30 months, so when prizes come to
THE MISSES ALBU.
be distributed we may expect to see a herd of
disappointed infants walking straight up to the
committee and giving them beans.
** * *
Alec. Mayne, business manager at the
Bijou, is just off for a trip “ home,” with one eye
on his health and the other looking after B. & B.
interests.
** * *
Despite the fact that indisposition on two
occasions withdrew the leading lady from the bill,
“Dr. Bill” was a big success throughout his two
weeks’ season at Adelaide Royal. He has now
finally taken in his brass-plate and “Our Flat,”
produced too late for us to discuss its merit, or
otherwise, this week, reigns in its stead. “Our
Flat ” is a three-act farcical comedy by Mrs.
Musgrove. Williamson and Garner hold the
Australian rights, and it has not been played in
this country before. At Garner’s Rooms, Jack
Cameron has a good minstrel company in full
swing; the Cycloraraa flourishes, while Scotch
Kennedy has been giving an entertainment in the
Town Hall.
** * *
On the 29th of this month the Federal
Baby-Show opens at Melbourne Exhibition,
and will continue to suck its thumb and
squall until the 2nd prox. Many ladies and
gentlemen who have achieved heaven-born infants
weighing two tons and under have already entered
their exhibits, and those who have not are re-
quested to hurry up if they want any floorage
space. The chief perpetrators of the entertain-
ment are Messrs. Arons and Glass, and people are
advised to camp in Nicholson-street early next
week and so avoid the inevitable crush.
So long as we can walk around
Upon a pair of leather soles—
Until, beneath a grassy mound,
We sleep our final sleep profound,
We’ll praise, with no uncertain sound
This acting of Miss Nethersole’s.
At Poverty Point.
Ibsenility is the latest expressive word.
This tickles you awfully. The late Berlin dramatic-
censor struck God out of all plays—except for the Court
Theatre.
Irving’s magnetic needle declines, for he has to make up
a composite week’s bill: “ Much Ado,” “ Lyons Mail,”
“Charles I.” Hey for Australia ! Race Bernhardt.
Macready said Ristori was inferior to Rachel, who could
not be named in the same breath with Mrs. Siddons.
Noah was the best actor.
Old Charlie Wheatleigh, who brought the “ Colleen
Bawn’’ and “Shaughraun” to Australia, is Sir Peter
Teazle, in Augustin Daly’s New York revival “School for
Scandal.” Harry Edwards is the Sir Oliver, Ada Rehan,
the Lady Teazle. Wheatleigh fairly replaces the eminent
Gilbert.
The success of Sullivan’s “ Ivanhoe ” causes revival of
Andrew Halliday’s, in London. Twenty years ago, at
Drury, under Chatterton, the run was on Halliday’s
“Ivanhoe,” “Amy Robsart,” “Talisman,” &c., as
spectacles, in which figured Adelaide Neilson, Creswick,
and Anderson.
Melbourne Royal management restores the good old pit,
gradually encroached on by stalls, till they ate it up, and
the exasperated pittites were hoisted to that infernal den,
the gallery'. Wherefore they couldn’t be garnered in, by
the divine Billiamson, and the gallery was given up to the
brutes who spit all night.
Rev. G. Rowe, a smart Adelaide parson with literary
tastes, did a clever thing the other day. Mark Guy
Pearse, the English lecturer, was ill, and could not fulfil
his Moonta (S. A.) engagement. Rowe learnt off the lec-
ture at a few hours’ notice, and delivered it with great
success.
Patey, the solicitor’s clerk, against whom something
is charged in connection with the Bijou fires, is an old-
established dabbler in Melbourne theatrical publications.
His latest “literary” venture was a short-lived sheet
called The Live Bird, which turned out an uncommonly
bad egg.
A New York ballet-girl dances in the same row as her
mother and grandmother. The old lady can still kick
a good six inches higher than either of her descendants.
Which goes to prove that legs are not what they used
to be.
Madame Patey is returning to Australia by the Tsinan
from Hongkong.
It is cabled that “Nellie Stewart and Alfred Plumpton
have arrived in London.” By the way', Mr.—er—George
Musgrove has also arrived in London.
“ Leopold Jordan, formerly of Sydney D.T., is the
author of ‘ Bridget O’Brien, Esq.’ ” Not so. Sheridan,
who ought to know, says Fred. Lyster is the culprit.
Signor Majeroni explains that the Marquis Camillo del
Grille, whose death is reported, was not the husband of
Adelaide Ristori. Ristori and her husband, Juliano, now
reside at Rome. The Majeronis, those admirable artistes
and cultured, kindly people, everyone will regret to know,
are still in delicate health. As a small token of sympathy
it has been decided to give them a benefit, and a pre-
liminary meeting has been held at Her Majesty’s.
The success of Montague Younger’s Easter Monday
popular concert in Sydney Town Hall is likely to induce
him to give a series of these entertainments.
Signor Hazon and Secretary Green (M.L.) are getting
up a Sydney Town Hall orchestral concert for the benefit
of the wives and children of those who at Middle Head
were slain to grace a Sydney holiday.
Alice Norton travelled 1500 miles to join the Ireland-
Gerald-Duff Co., who are doing big biz. at Broken Hill,
and opened on the night of arrival as Dora Vane.
Amory Sullivan has bought the Australian rights of
H. A. Jones’ latest and biggest success, “The Dancing
Girl,” for Melbourne Royal. Laura Villiers comes out to
open in July next in the name-part.
Capt. De Burgh’s Sydney benefit has been postponed
sine die through the squabbling of an actor-manager and
an actress.
The Misses Albu will sing, at their last Sydney concert,
in duet—“Oh! that we two were marrying !” See D.T.
This is what we call the “straight griffin.”
Ambassador Lytton has entertained Madame Melba at
a banquet in Paris. Lytton, it may be remembered, was
the giddy Governor of India who struck a medal in honour
of the talents of a fascinating lady artiste, then in the
land of liver, “pegs,” and punkahs.
Charles Thompson, best known publicly by his excellent
performance of Warrigal in “Robbery under Arms” at
Melbourne Alexandra, died the other day of acute
pneumonia.
The highest form of acting is self-advertisement. Vide
Johnny Toole.
Leslie and Farren come out to Australia in the Oroya,
on April 24. The rest of the crowd follow in the Orizaba.
Some London papers confirm The Bulletin’s criticism
of “ The Idler.” They say it is unbalanced, and that
Chambers’ so-called comedy is dragged in by the heels in
a crude and unworkmanlike manner.
Fred. B. Norton, of Sydney, who is gradually working
up a steady little business, despite adverse circumstances,
has a commission to engage several variety artistes and
others for India.
The Powell benefit, at Sydney Gaiety, initiated and
carried out by Rickards, resulted in a return of £BB ss.
Expenses were but £lO or £l2.
Barnum is dead, aged 84. He started life as a showman
by exhibiting “ George Washington’s old nurse,” a
coloured woman, aged 161, so he said ; and steadily
worked up from that comparatively humble starting-point
to a plane of mendacity which will alike be the envy
and the despair of all future generations of liars.
Barnum was very pious and travelled on the game. This
world is the oyster of the arch-liar who can become a
churchwarden.
Sydney Star’s cable padder-out has been describing a
fire in Mine. Melba’s apartments and her escape by a
ladder. The cabled skeleton the Star’s ungram-
matical inkslinger expanded into three-fourths of a
column. He concludes by stating that her rescuer—
“ With the greatest difficulty and danger gained the
window, smashed in the panes with his clenched fist, and
discovered the diva quite stupefied with the smoke-laden
atmosphere of the apartment. Gripping her firmly in his
arms, he carried her towards the shattered window, robed
only in her nightdress he once more gained the steps of
the ladder, which he successfully "descended with his
precious burden. The morning was bitterly frosty, and
in the transit, almost deshabille, Madame Melba caught a
severe cold, and will be prevented from singing for some
time.” Why the gentleman should have thought it necessary
to don Melba’s nightgown (the incident has a “ Sonnani-
bula ” flavour) ere descending the ladder, is not
evident’ nor is it apparent why the deshabille of “the
transit” should have given Melba cold, but the
deshabille of this cable-distorter is likely to give the
“ Star ” a bad cold shortly.
A Melbourne paper, enumerating all the innocuous
glories of the “People’s Palace,” mentioned that the
management had “even provided a shadow pantomime.”
Which somehow reminds us of the Daily Telegraph re-
porter who once summarised the entertainment at a
chapel festival as “an endless variety of instruction and
amusement, including buns and lemonade.”
We touched up the abolition of the grand old man from
the modern stage—the character enacted in London by
Farren and Chippendale, in America by Blake and Gil-
bert, in Australia by Rogers and Lambert. It remains to
sigh over the departure of the old woman, -the Mrs.
Phillips, Mrs. Wooldridge, and Mrs. Jones.
G. V. Brooke’s Sydney residence having been located, it
may be added that his Melbourne house was in Flinders-
lane, on the east side of the corner now occupied by Dr.
Rowan as his private hospital. The Mrs. G. V. Brooke of
the establishment was a mysterious lady, not Madame
Marie Duret. Brooke afterwards married Avonia Jones.
He was not an intellectual man off the stage, though men
like Jas. Smith, Blair, Sinnett, and the luminaria of the
era used to do their best to draw him out. Yet he
struggled manfully against the Bohemian tendencies he
had in common with Edmund Kean, and of him it might
be said, as Charles Lamb said of another actor: “ Every-
body liked him for his no pretensions at all.” Never for-
gotten.
Dear Bulletin, —“Poverty Point” declares re John
Knipe, of Melbourne, that he has never been an actor.
Apropos , let me tell you a yarn. When John first
landed in Victoria, after many vicissitudes he Joined a
Co. of travelling players at Bendigo diggings. They had
very bad luck, and at last the ghost ceased to walk at all.
The Co. consulted together, and finally' agreed each to
take a benefit commencing with the “ first lady ” and
descending the scale, each to choose the to be
played on his or her behalf. When it came to Knipe’s
turn (he was about the last, being in low’est ranks of the
players)he chose “ Jack Sheppard,” a piece which at that
time was not permitted to be played on the diggings with-
out special consent. The Co. said it was impossible to
have this piece, but Knipe was determined, and rode
away to a prominent magistrate and persuaded him to
give permission. The piece was played, and, of course,
was a tremendous success. John Knipe cleared nearly a
hundred pounds, which was the commencement of his
present fortune.—Yours, Jellyfish.
More or less socially shady are the antecedents of
Signora Crispi, the Italian Premieress. Well, the Queen
of Italy and the Signora sat, in separate boxes of course,
so see a Roman play a few weeks back. It proved objec-
tionable, and Signora Crispi went away disgusted, which
offended the Quq,en, in the Signora’s assumption of
superior virtue.
Billy Heffernan, erst of Sandhurst Shamrock, has left
this planet, starting from N.Z. They say he would even
take a turn at blacking the boots at the Shamrock, such
was his hatred of idleness. He established the Shamrock
Music Hall, where Thatcher was the star, with such ditties
as (air, “ Ben Bolt ”)
Mrs. J. A. Dobbie, known first on the concert platform
as Miss Foxall, leaves for England in search of health.
E. E. Rice, composer of “The Corsair,” “ Pearl of
Pekin,” &c., America’s Sullivan, came over in the
Alameda to conduct “Evangeline” at Melbourne Opera
House. He brings the nucleus of a company—twelve
in all—with him, including Agnes Paul, Edith Cole,
Eileen Karl and Jessie Fortescue. George Fortescue, the
latter lady’s dad, a 3101 b. comedian, plays Katharine.
General Sherman was a bit outspoken. “He called
into the Roosevelt’s one night late, when the curled male
darling who sat at the piano said, with a lisp: ‘What
kind of music do you like, General —a morceau of Chopin,
something by Mozart, or a wee bit of Beethoven?’ ‘ Any
kind except piano music,’ said the General, carelessly,
after surveying the musician for a moment. Then Miss
Roosevelt’s mamma observed: ‘The General wants to
hear you sing, Blanche, dear. You know' your voice
always soothes him.’ ‘ Excuse me, madam, but I don’t
care for any music to-night. I’ve just heard Patti in
‘ Lucia.’ ”
Only one church on this globe has a ballet. It is
Seville Cathedral, w'here, once a year, on Corpus Christi
Sunday, a religious ballet is danced in front of the altar,
but only by male dancers. It dates from time imme-
morial, and is regarded as a solemn function.
Most refreshing is dramatic-critic Archer’s pen in
London World. Apropos to “ Lights o’ London ” revival,
he looks back wondering to the time when he “ gushed
three columns” in the Figaro. Now he slaughters Sims
as a sordid dramatist who has not made the least pro-
gress -indeed, never wwote anything since so good as the
“ Lights,” wherefore Archer contrasts his stagnation with
the progress of Jones. The question is whether Jones or
Pinero will fly the highest.
“ Oh, don’t you remember Mud Gully, Jack Baggs,
Mud Gully of gullies so fair ;
Where we buckled in and lined our old swags
With three hundred ounces a share?
Jas Churchill Fisher, the well-known musician, author
of “The Emigrants,” once conductor of the Sydney
Metropolitan Liedertafel, died at Parramatta the other
day', aged 65.


PULVER.MA.CHER’S
WORLD-FAMED
Electric Belts and Appliances.
As recommended and prescribed by the most
eminent physicians throughout the world.
THE O\l, Y (.CM INK O>E S.
The most Simple, Effectual and Rational Cure
for Sciatica, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Paralysis,
Nervous Debility, and other nervous, muscular
and functional maladies.
Pamphlets and full information on application.
FROST & SHIPHAIVT,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne: Allison Bros., 418 Chancery Lane.
BARK-MARAGERS and LAWYERS
If you have any old correspondence
„ , ... , _ iu your possession, dated 1849 to
1 “to!? 6 stamps affixed (hereto are of value— ranging from (say) £1 each to Cd. per dozen. VVE
AKE 1 REI ARED to purchase ANA' NUMBER of old Australian Stamps for IMMEDIATE CASH, and invite
correspondence from anyone able to supply us with same. Look up your old papers, and send us samples of the
different stamps you come across. The return will more than repay you for any loss of time.
DAWSON A. VINDIN <Sc CO..
The Foreign SI amp Depot,
i) and 11 Victoria Arcade, Elizabeth and Castlereach Streets. SYDNEY
(And at HAMBURG. GERMANY).
WORTH IT’S WEIGHT IN COLD!
g n n (1 Stre n ?rh
t] ieuing I'll: 1,0-
XI OX, f or a p t ji s ea
f cs of tlio Eyes, more
1 articulnily Sandy Bliglit, Inflammation of tlie Eyes and
Eyelids, Weakness of i Sight,&c.ltgives
not only immediate relief intbe very worst
c.isc sof Sandy Blight but effects a per.
manent cure in a few , days.
I’rlrc, Is Gd per Itolllo.
PPEPAB D ONLY BY
JOHN WATSON,
< ht-misi, r t B! (,un;io Street, Sydney.
And Sold jiv am. BEsim'.ctaule StokeristorEits.
WATSON’S
EYE
LOTION
Tales of Old Sydney.
No. IV.—Mr. Pounce’s Reprieve.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Do you recollect how Copper-Plate
Josephs, an experienced bank-note forger, estab-
as a card-plate engraver in Jamieson-street,
rp- S y dne y> received a commission from Mr.
Timothy Pounce, the expert in concocting pardons
and tickets-of-leave, to engrave his (Pounce’s)
name on his card-ease ? If you do, you will also
remember how “ Copper-Plate,” just by way of a
joke, you know, took the trouble to print a few
cards like this :
Timothy Pounce,
Writer and Forger,
Macquarie-street.
Documents of all kinds
forged and uttered. Pardons
a speciality.
And to mix them up with the pretty scripts with
which Mr. Pounce was accustomed to introduce
himself and his professed business to the patron-
age of the good people of the old town.
Here is a copy of Mr. Pounce’s proper card: —
Timothy Pounce,
Writing Clerk,
Macquarie-street.
Documents of all kinds
drafted and written. Legal
work a speciality.
In this narrative we have to recount what
happened when Mr. Pounce handed one of the
former style of pasteboards to Captain Charles
Sturt, H.B.M.’s 30tli Regiment, by mistake for
one of the others.
* * *
One day Mr. Pounce, having taken a
morning constitutional on the racecourse, was
returning home to his bower of domesticity—he
lived in a little cottage in Macquarie-street built
on the site occupied at a later date by that parti-
cular house in Lyons’ Terrace which was tenanted
for some years by Judge Alfred Stephen (vou can
see “Stephen” scratched in half-a-dozen places
on the window-panes now) when he chanced to
espy a military-looking figure standing just
where William-street takes the sudden dip to
Woolloomooloo.
“ Captain Sturt, for a dollar!” ejaculated Mr.
Pounce. “He’ll be wanting some one, I’ll swear,
to assist him with his journals for the London
press.” And impelled by the thought that in the
brilliant galaxy of rogues which Sydney at this
time could furnish he was the one competent man
to aid the great Explorer in the preparation of his
book for publication, he strode towards the Cap-
tain. Very anxious was Mr. Pounce to get into
confidential intimacy with all men in high places.
There were so many little perquisites which
attached to Officialdom, and Mr. Pounce, keen
man of the world as he was, knew perfectly well
that the indirect method—such as a grant of land,
or a fat contract, or a dozen blank pardon-forms,
or a casual “ minute ” dropped promiscuously in a
mass of documentary matter—by which an official
would pay for “confidential services,” was oftener
more valuable than direct remuneration. That
was one reason why Mr. Pounce cultivated the
big men of the colony. And another was one that
’ Mr. Pounce hardly dared whisper to himself.
For, you see, Mr. Pounce’s intimacy with an
official generally meant a perfect mastery by Mr.
Pounce of the official's handwriting. And we
scarcely need tell you how useful that capacity
could be made in Old Sydney days by a gentle-
man like Pounce, who was as expert with the pen
as he was facile of conscience.
“Ever hear of Old Pounce, the forger?” we
once asked a solicitor’s managing-clerk, who had
held his post for over forty years in a Sydney
office.
“Old Pounce? God bless my soul, sir, when
any property comes into our hands to prove title,
and I see that the deeds bear what purport to be
’s, and ’s, and ’s signatures, I
am never at rest till I get ’em under Torrens’
title. That’s what I know of Old Pounce, as you
call him. His expertness has made us doubt even
documents dated at a time when he was out of the
colony under sentence of transportation to. Van
Dieman’s Land or Norfolk Island.”
That was Old Pounce.
* # *
A genial, pleasant-looking person he looked
in his blue coat and white ducks, and frilled shirt,
and snowy hair, as he strode swiftly and erectly
across the treeless expanse which now sustains the
umbrageous glory of Hyde Park. Well up in
years was Friend Timothy, but as alert and as
strong on his legs as a boy of twenty. As he
neared Captain Sturt, for the figure was the
Captain’s, he slowed his pace. So great and
dignified a man—Pounce did not think much of
him as a discoverer, what he honoured in Sturt
was his Brigade-Majorship—was to be approached
with deference.
The Captain, from the hilly eminence where he
stood, was gazing at a party of convicts cutting
down the William-street extension. His thoughts
were not, however, on the scene, prolific of con-
trasts, which wooed the light of his steel-grey
eyes. Over the dusty, jangling wretches that
toiled laboriously with pick and shovel; over the
overseers, who, to prevent themselves from falling
asleep in the sunny balminess, as well as to keep
their proteges up to the desired point of assiduity,
flicked the short-handled, long-thonged whips
here on to a face that had once been human, and
there on to shoulders that had once been brawny ;
over the soldiers of the guard as they leaned on
their shotted muskets; over the sparse Woolloo-
mooloo buildings ; over to the bold brown of the
distant headlands as they jutted into the sapphire
of the harbour; over all, glanced and roved
Captain Charlie’s vision, and yet he saw them not.
He was looking into the future with the prescient
orb of the man who is at once imaginative and
practical, and speculating, as was his constant
habit, over the possibilities with which the time
was pregnant. Darling had called him a dreamer,
and John Mackanass, after he had been deposed
from the post of Sheriff for making remarks
offensive to Church and State,” spoke of him as
a visionary. The men who were at his right hand
during his expeditions, Hamilton Hume and
George Macleay, used to say the same of him,
with an addition—that he dreamt dreams, and
saw visions, but he knew how to make them real.
Sturt saw in fancy the waving field of corn where
he found aridity, and white sails gleaming over
inland waters which he had found trackless;
and he did his best —a best which ranks with
Livingstone’s, and beside whicli Stanley’s is an
mfamy— to sow the corn and to spread the sail,
the men who rubbed shoulders with him in Old
Sydney before and after his expeditions thought
he was cracked when his thin lips quivered and
his steely eyes gave forth a spark of fire, as he
spoke of the Interior. They could not understand
enthusiasm in any pure undertaking, and they
laughed one day in May ’29 at Government
House—Sturt had been back from his first journey
ten days or so, —when Sheriff Macquoid remarked
jestingly “Well, well, we’ll have to build you a
statue now, Sturt, I s’pose?”
“Its sufficient for me to know,” said the
Lxplorer, “that I led where others must follow.
I hey can t forget me, if they would.” Dreamer
and seer as he was, he could not foresee that the
Australian would, however, act on Macquoid’s
idea. lor we have erected the noblest memorial
to him, have we not? What sublimer tribute
could a great spirit crave than to be left entombed
neath a mountain of Neglect by an age in
which every charlatan can have his effigy? But
we are rambling—and Forger Pounce is waiting
to be introduced to the Captain.
* # *
( “H’m, fine morning, your Hon—, I mean
Captain.” The Captain was roused from his
reverie, but not sufficiently to notice Mr. Pounce’s
slip of the tongue. It was a slip for so venerable
a man to address an official as “Your Honor,”
for it at once betokened the ex-convict. To
transports and expirees of the lower order—to the
latter because they could not readily shake off
the subservience of the former stage of their
colonial career- it was second nature to so salute
one of the Great Powers.
“ Beg pardon, sir. Did not catch your words,”
A FELLOW FEELING.
(Overheard in the Zoological Gardens.)
ELEPHANT: “Well, old ship-of-the desert, how does your back feel after the ’olidays?”
responded Sturt, always as courteous to free men
or transports as to private soldiers or officialdom.
Of course, Sturt knew instinctively that Pounce
was an Emancipist. Had he been free on landing
he must have met him before.
“ I was only taking: the liberty of wishing you a
good morning, Captain.”
“Oh, good morning,”
“Sad sight, sir !” and Pounce waved his hand
feelingly towards the iron-gang.
“Some great ruffians, there, sir!” he went on
as the Captain remained silent. “ Ah, sir, how
awful are the consequences of crime !”
“ Very !” said the Captain, drily. “ But were
you wishing to speak to me about anything in
particular. You know me, but I .”
“Don’t know me! Of course not, sir. But
then, if I may be permitted to say so, it is a pride
and a pleasure for everyone here to know by sight
at least the heroic ”
“You are not permitted to say anything of the
kind.” And Sturt, swinging his light rattan,
turned his head away. He had taken the measure
of his man.
“ Oh, Ido trust no offence, sir. I—l—ventured
to intrude a remark.”
“ Come, sir, to business ! I suppose you had an
object in addressing me. ’Mancipists don’t
usually speak to Officers of the Garrison without
some motive.”
The genial Pounce was momentarily discon-
certed. What really was the use of his being
honest and apeing virtuous demeanour and so
forth, if an official eye could in a moment see
through his mask and penetrate to the expiree t
“It is true, sir, lam a ’Mancipist!” he at last
found strength to say, “ but my little difficulty
with the law, Captain Sturt, was, believe me,
more—more to my credit than to my shame.”
“I cannot understand what your concern is
with me, therefore I am not interested in your
conflict with the law.” The Captain was here, of
course, strictly official, but none was readier than
he to avert from some poor transport the conse-
quences of a hasty and erroneous conviction, once
he was convinced injustice had been done.
“I crave your pardon, sir—l should, p’r’aps
have disclosed my business. Of course, I have
business, sir ; otherwise I would not have dared to
trespass upon your notice. I humbly desire to
offer my services to your Honor ” —he might as
well out with the title now—“ as a transcriber for
the press of the account of your valuable ”
“No compliments ! ”
“Your book, then, sir. It is known all over
Sydney that your journals are soon to be pub-
lished.”
“ Well, they will, and Ido wish assistance. But
what are your qualifications ! Are you a reporter ?
Are you Watts or O’Shaughnessy ? ”
“Neither, sir. Pm” He stopped, to
fumble for his card-case.
“ Can you write legibly, condense, punctuate,
and so on ? ”
“Most competently, Captain Sturt, I assure
you. And permit me to hand your Honor my
card.”
With a graceful bow and dignified flourish of
his white hand, he withdrew from his case and
placed in Captain Sturt’s extended fingers, this :
Timothy Pounce,
Writer and Forger,
Macquarie-street.
Documents of all kinds
forged and uttered. Pardons
a speciality.
The Captain took it, glanced at it, then at
Pounce, and with a harsher stridence in his tones
and a reddening flush over the bronze his cheeks
had brought back from the sun-dried Unsettled
Districts, demanded:
“ Pounce ? You are Pounce, are you ? ”
“Y—es, sir!” Pounce was startled. The
Captain’s polite aspect had changed ominously,
that was obvious. But what had he said or done
that could have associated his name in Sturt’s
mind with something discreditable. He could not
on the instant recall any act of his —at least, any
that had received publicity —which should have
occasioned the alteration in the Captain’s judg-
ment of him.
“ Pounce, the forger ? ”
In holy horror at the imputation, Mr. Pounce
lifted his hands ! How could his Honor think
anything of the sort ? He was simply a writer —a
mere writing clerk, open to do all things honor-
able and artistic that were possible to the pen. It
was true “his little difficulty at home” had been
termed forgery, but he was merely the victim of
misplaced confidence in a friend who had, by way
of illustrating to an admiring circle his, Pounce’s,
artistic penmanship, induced him to write two or
three well-known names on a piece of blank paper.
How could he know that his base friend would
turn the paper into an order for transferring bank-
stock? Mr. Pounce grew pathetically eloquent
as, in flowing periods he told to the listening
officer, the story of the cruel way in which Fate
had treated him, and how nobly he had striven
to retrieve the position which the Law and not
his own misdoing had wrested from him.
“No, sir !” he cried with a thrilling quiver in
his voice, and with an admirably-successful effort
at squeezing two tear-drops from behind the white
handkerchief which he held to his face. “No,
sir ! lam no forger! I revere the laws of my
country too much to become one, to say nothing
of the penalty attached to so heinous a crime !
Call me a ’Mancipist if you like, Captain Sturt—
I can’t help being that, but don’t, your Honor,
pray—pray—term—me a forger.”
Hamilton Hume used to declare Sturt had no
sense of humour. That might be so; but certainly,
as he patiently listened to the plausible old sinner,
he relaxed the stiff lines of his face somewhat.
As well he might! He had never before seen
Pounce, but the artistic excellence of that brilliant
“penman’’was well known to him “by repute,”
and he was consequently in a position to gauge at
its true worth Mr. Pounce’s touching speech in
defence.
* * *
“ You’re not a forger, then, Mr. Pounce?”
“No, sir—indeed—no—sir.”
“But I have had it from your own hand that
you are!”
Pounce was dumbfounded. He had been, he
was convinced, exceedingly cautious in all his
correspondence and had never, so far as he could
recollect, written a word that could be construed
into the statement that he was a professional
forger. He had not looked at the card he had
handed it to the Captain, and could not suspect,
of course, that Sturt had gleaned his knowledge
from Copperplate’s humorous little invention.
He was forced to reply, however, when “True
Charlie ” —Sturt was so known among the gar-
rison and the transports—repeated the assertion.
“I have had it from your own hand, sir, I say,
How dare you contradict me !”
“ May I—l beg, sir—l would humbly submit,
Captain, you must —be mistaken. With
deference, sir, I submit so, sir.” Pounce got
bolder as he found words, although a sinking of
the heart warned him that Sturt, the model of
veracity in a lying society, would not speak so
emphatically without having full reason for his
accusations,
“ Mistaken ! No, sir !” Sturt grew sterner in
voice and feature as he retorted. “I am never
mistaken in dealing with men of your stamp.
I’ve been a friend to the ’Mancipists when they
obeyed the law on release, but when they know-
ingly set the law at defiance, and flaunt their
defiance in the face of the authorities, then my
duty bids me mete out to them punishment.” As
he ended, he drew from the breast-pocket of his
undress jumper a letter-case in which he placed
Pounce’s card, and, from his vest—a whistle. The
hero sank into the police-constable. He blew the
whistle.
Ho not discredit Sturt that he did this duty.
lor that, the System was responsible—the System
made men like him and Franklin, and
Mitchell under-gaolers. They were penal officers
first ; explorers, heroes, thereafter.
* * *
At the sound of the whistle there came
running up a couple of soldiers and a Civil side
overseer. Poor Pounce, on the first impulse
turned to fly. Something, he knew not what, had
brought the fair-seeming edifice of reputation
which he had striven to erect, suddenly to the
ground, and he felt for a second that the game
was up. But second, and cooler thoughts came
to him, whicli bade him see the trouble through.
As, indeed, he could scarcely help doing, inas-
much as :
“ Stop, sir, or I bid them fire !” fell from Cap-
tain Sturt’s lips ; and the “ readying” of the fire-
locks rang a dull second to the officer’s sharp
treble. So Mr. Pounce, writer and forger,
stopped—stopped and smiled as though, after all,
it was only his little joke the whole affair.
The smile vanished quickly, though, as Captain
Sturt ordered the Overseer to arrest Pounce, to
search him at once, and to take him and the
effects found upon his person to the Barracks.
“I will lay the charge there, Overseer. Will it
weaken the gang-guard to send a man with him
and yourself. ”
The man capped and responded : “ I’m ’fraid it
'viH. We’ve a desperate lot there, sir, and are
short-handed as ’tis. It would be bad ’miff for
me to go, sir, let alone a Private. To weaken us,
Cap’n, is just to ax ’em to bolt.”
The most repulsive task which ever fell within
the bounds of Sturt’s duty was never evaded by
him. So
“ Search the prisoner, give me his papers, and
I will take him myself.”
Pounce felt he needed all the moral support
which he could derive from his personal dignity
and his unsullied conscience during the trying
moments that followed. For the Overseer’s
hands, felicitously expert at such work, and
accustomed to find half-figs of tobacco and iron-
filing tools in the most unexpected places, ran up
his person and ran down his person, into his
pockets, into his hat-lining, into his very boots.
With this result
A large sheet of parchment.
A small sheet of stiff paper.
A pocket-book.
Half-a-dozen letters, some in his own hand-
writing, apparently about to be despatched, and
others addressed to himself, very evidently from
clients.
A watch and bunch of seals, a tooth-pick—very
natty in his personal habits was Pounce — and a
card-case —which carried on its outside
Wimotf[y jounce,
and inside a number of visiting-cards. That
unfortunate card-case !
The documents and effects were, with a salute,
passed over by the Overseer to Captain Hturt, who
took them, and pointing with his cane to Hyde
Park Barracks, simply said “ March ! ”
And Mr. Pounce, calling once more to his aid
the Spirit of Integrity, moved three paces ahead
of the Captain in the indicated direction.
And Captain Sturt, the owner of a deathless
name, followed his prisoner !
To such base uses, in the accursed days of Old
Sydney, and Old Hobart, and Old Moreton Bay,
did the System, invented by the Devil in his
mundane residence at No. 14 Downing-street, *
put English gentlemen in whose breasts beat the
hearts of Drake and Raleigh. The soul that
burst the heat-forged bonds which held the Un-
known Australia from the touch of human
interests, and that brother-soul which shattered
the frozen fetters of the Arctic, were, in the wiles
of the Devil, allotted by his creatures, the Men of
the System, the task of controlling convicts.
Sturt and Franklin loathed their task, but per-
formed it. Nothing of its shamefulness attaches
to them. They sought to dignify their work, and
if they failed, the fault lay with the work that
could not be dignified. But what of their Masters,
the Eminent British Statesmen ? The future
will make answer in voiceless scorn. The hand
can frame an expression so infinite in its contempt
that no syllabled utterance can vie with its de-
basing significance. The New Australia will
address that gesture to the memory of the Men of
the System.
* * *
We shall not trouble you, dear readers,
with the complete accounts of the subsequent pro-
ceedings, legal and otherwise. Important though
they were to Friend Timothy, they might not, in
the expansiveness of their detail, interest you.
We shall content ourselves, and we trust you, by
a very brief presentation of the trial of the issues
in Rex v. Pounce, the same being— (l) Larceny of
one sheet of parchment of the value of five shil-.
lings currency; (2) feloniously receiving the before-
mentioned sheet of parchment, supposed to be
stolen; and (3) the forgery to the twice before-
mentioned sheet of parchment of the signature of
his Excellency the Governor, Ralph Darling, and
* In convict days, the official residence of the Secretary
of State for the Colonies. It was in a room in this house
that Wellington and Nelson met for the first, if not the
only, time in their lives.


FINN BROTHERS & CO.
(Successors to Mr. E. F. Flanagan),
CATHOLIC BOOKSELLER*, STATIONERS, Ac.,
586 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Near Bathurst Street.)
All the latest Books and Periodicals by every mail at
PUBLISHED PRICES.
Dublin Freeman, Labour World, United
Ireland, Irish Catholic, Avb Maria, Catholic
Times, Universal Shamrock, &c., &c.
Write to Messrs. Pike Bros., Brisbane,
for price-list of their goods for gentlemen’s wear ;
also for self-measurement forms and patterns
from the Tailoring Department.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
Land at Perth, W.A., the best Investment
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking-Powder.
Bladon’s Health Saline. Invigorating and
refreshing. W. C. Smith, 251 Elizabeth-st.
Colkmane and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Also, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
BITE
Ye Fishes, Bite. Fishing Nets
made ready for use. Try bur
Improved Fish Traps. We have an immense
assortment of Lines (samples sent). Every kind
of Hook, Bait’, Floats, Flies, Heels, etc. A
splendid assortment of Fishing Rods. A small
parcel of Tackle can be sent by post. We have
every'requisite for fishing. EASTWAY BROS.,
411 tleorge-street, Sydney.
f 4-w other potentate, the Honorable Alexander
“«E Secretory and member of
°Thetot charge fell to the ground. There .«
no evidence of larceny, and Law, in the person of
Judge Dowling and seven military officers, made
ran /fhougli rare) cause with Justice and
rhSorelcqffiftd hiS. Law did tins transcen-
Hpnt act with the greater pleasure that it was
pretty well convinced it was going to hang 1 ounce
on the third charge.
As to the second charge, of course the Crown
pressed and proved it. Pounce could not get
v from it; for the sheet of parchment, you
mi/st know was a Conditional Pardon which he
had prepared for his next order. It was in the
form following
NEW SOUTH WALES.
CONDITIONAL PARDON.
By his Excellency Ralph Darling, Lieutenant-
General in His Majesty’s Military Forces, Captain-
General and Governor-in-Chief in and over His
Majesty’s Territory of New South Wales and its
Dependencies, and Vice-Admiral of the same.
WHEREAS his late Most Excellent Majesty King
George the Third, by a Commission under the Great Seal
of Great Britain, bearing date the eighth day of Novem-
ber in the thirty-first year of His Majesty’s reign, was
graciously nleased to give and grant full power and
authority to the Governor (or in case of his death or
absence, the Lieutenant-Governor) for the time being
of His Majesty’s territory on the eastern coast of New
South Wales and the Islands thereunto adjacent, by an
instrument or instruments in writing, under the Seal of
Tie Government of the said territory, or as he or they
respectively shall think fit or convenient for His Majesty’s
Service to remit, either absolutely or conditionally, the
whole or any part of the term or time for which persons
convicted of felony, misdemeanour, or other offences
■unmable to the laws of Great Britain, should have been,
in- should thereafter be respectively conveyed or trans-
ported to New South Wales, or the Islands thereunto
1 B\°vivtue of such power and authority so vested as
„to resaid 1, Ralph Darling, Lieutenant-General in His
Majesty’s’ forces, CapiAin-General and Governor-in-Chief
if" Her Majesty's territory of New South Wales and its
Dependencies, and Vice-Admiral of the same, taking into
consideration the good conduct of , who
arrived in this colony in the ship , master,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and ,
under sentence of transportation for , and
whose description is on the back hereof; Do hereby
remit the remainder of the term or time which is yet to
come and unexpired of the original sentence or order of
transportation passed on the aforesaid at
on the day of , one
I housand eight hundred and
Provided always, and on condition, that the said
continue to reside within the limits of this Govern-
ment for and during the space of his original sentence or
order of transportation Otherwise the said
shall be subject to all the pains and penalties of reappear-
ing in Great Britain and Ireland, for and during the term
of'his original sentence or order of transportation, or, as
if this remission had never been granted.
Given under my hand and seal of the territory at
Government House, Sydney, in New South Wales, this
day of , in the year of Our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and
RALPH DARLING.
By his Excellency’s command— Alexander Macleay.
Now, a blank form of the kind was presumably
never to be found outside of a certain locker in
the room of the Clerk of the Council, except when
in course of preparation for the Governor’s signa-
ture. There was a rigorous regulation which was
supposed to prevent access by convicts or ’Manci-
pists to the place of keeping of departmental
“ blanks,” and coupling the presumption and the
ivgula'.ion, with the fact that the blank pardon
was on Pounce’s person, the jury of officers had
not the least difficulty in finding that Mr. Pounce
was guilty of receiving a stolen sheet. Eor which
offence he was then and the.re awarded seven
years’ transportation He should have got four-
teen, but Judge Dowling probably let him off the
second seven years because he was to bo hanged
on the final accusation. A most tender-hearted
and considerate judge was that dear, old gentle-
man.
Upon God and his country arraigning him upon
the third charge the accused pleaded “Not guilty !”
in the touchingest of tones. That Providence and
his fellow-men could so misjudge him as to sup-
pose him capable of so terrible a crime cut him to
the heart! That was the sentiment made audible
in his plaintive reply to the Clerk of Arraign’s
interrogation. Ah! Fate is often cruel to the
best of men !
During that part of the Crown’s case which
was made up of Secretary Macleay’s evidence
that he had never signed the pardon, and that he
was authorised by His Excellency to state that he
had not done so, the prisoner was gallant and
composed. But his admirable demeanour was
suddenly broken up by a word from Captain
Sturt, who submitted himself to becross examined
Even the best of men make mistakes.
“May I ask, Captain Sturt,” respectfully ques-
tioned the accused, “what you meant by saying on
the morning of my arrest that I had communicated
to you with my own hand that I was a forger ?”
Now, Sturt, in his testimony-in-ehief, had made
no allusion to the visiting-card. It may have
been from forgetfulness, it may have been from
kindness, but so it was. He might, if he had
so chosen, have abstained, through pity, from
telling the whole truth, because, you must know,
he was not placed on his oath. A garrison officer
seldom was placed on his oath in those days in giving
witness in the institutions which were ludicrously
termed the Courts of Justice. Which was an
arrangement very convenient to the officers gener-
ally; to the defendant, or accused, rarely.
The Captain, in answer, took from his envelope-
case the card—
Timothy Pounce,
Writer and Forger,
Macquarie-street,
Documents of all kinds
forged and uttered. Pardons
a speciality.
and said ; “The prisoner, your Honor, introduced
himself to me by this card which I submit for
your Honor’s inspection.”
A moment of curious silence in the court, while
the card was handed up. Pounce forgot his
posturing, and wondered what the devil was
coming next. He had thought of—and provided
for—most possibilities, but this out-ran his judg-
ment.
His Honor looked at the card, looked at Pounce,
took a half-turn in his chair, to let the light fall-
upon the bit of pasteboard, and read out with a
labored distinctness : “ Timothy Pounce, Writer
and Forger. Pardons a speciality .” Then he drew
a deep breath and said, “ Well! ” Nearly every-
body in Court said “Well!” too, sotto-voce. Only
Timothy thought it was 111 Very! He was
staggered.
“ I know —nothing—of that card ! ” he managed
to say at last.
“The witness has declared it ! ” pronounced the
Judge. “Do you challenge Captain Sturt’s evi-
deuce ? 55
Of course he didn’t. What prisoner would dare
to impugn the veracity of an officer of the garrison,
especially “ True Charlie’s ? ”
“ May I suggest, your Honor, that the prisoner
should be permitted to see the card ? ” said Sturt.
The card was handed down, and to Pounce. He
took it eagerly—those in court held in their
breath, anxious not to lose a jot of the words
with which the old rascal would explain away the
damning inscription—and then, with a wild im-
petuosity of utterance, he shouted to where
Copper-Plate Josephs, present as an “ expert wit-
ness,” was sitting :
“ You devil, this is some of your work !”
* * *
“It was very indecorous, that remark,
said Judere Dowling, and “particularly in
decorous,” he further called it, when Copper-Plate
Josephs was put upon the stand and swore he had
no knowledge of the card.
“Do you mean to say, witness,” cross-examined
Pounce, “ that you did not engrave that card ?” i
“Ido. But supposing I did, you must have
A TYPICAL CASE.
HUSBAND: “ I’m always forgetting—let me see, what is your
correct age, dear?”
NEW WIFE: “ Twenty-four. What do you want to know for?”
HUSBAND: “It is not I, dear, it’s the Government Census.”
NEW WIFE: “Well, then, I’m twenty-one.”
given me the order. I couldn’t engrave cards for
your use without your knowledge, could I ? ”
The court laughed at the poser. On the restora-
tion of order :
“Did you not, when I left you my card-case,
engrave this card just to do me harm and put it
with my own ones ! ”
“No !” swore Witness—and Perjurer—Josephs.
“Again, no!”
The Attorney-General, prosecuting for the
Crown, here rose. “I submit, y’r Honor, the
pris’ner should be allowed to insult the
witness in this way. The witness, lam glad to
be informed by the police, is earning his living
honestly. And, further, y’r Honor, I can pro-
duce evidence, if y’r Honor thinks desirable, to
prove, first, that pris’ner at the bar carries on an
illicit trade in forged pardons, tickets and passes,
and, second, that a number of cards, precisely
similar to this, were found on his person in the
card-case to which he refers. It is quite obvious,
y’r Honor, that he has used these cards to prose-
cute his illegal and immoral business, and that
the presenting of his card to Captain Sturt was the
careless act of a criminal made reckless and over-
confident by long immunity.” .
Of course, after this pronouncement, it was only
a matter of minutes for Prisoner Timothy Pounce
to be sentenced to death. Which was done in a
very affecting fashion, indeed, his Honor dropping
at least three tears. He never gave more than
three to a man; a woman got five ; he was especi-
ally affable to the sex.was Puisne Judge Dowling.
# * #
The trial was on a Tuesday ; in the estab-
lished routine of things, Pounce would visit
George-street on Friday morning alive, and
return dead. That the routine was interrupted
was due to a conversation which took place on
Wednesday between a certain high official and the
Condemned.
“ If you and the other gentlemen of the staff
let me be hanged, sir,” declared Pounce, “ within
an hour of ray execution there will be placed in
Dr. Wardell’s hands a full statement, with
proofs, of all the forgeries of land-deeds, and
contract-forms, and pay-warrants which I have
done for you and others. Moreover, I shall tell
the crowd as much as I can on the gallows.”
“ But—we can’t, Pounce—the Governor’s away
at Windsor, and will not return before Friday
noon.”
“ And what’s my time ? The usual, I suppose,
sir?”
“Yes -Nine !”
Mr. Pounce, no longer blue-coated and wlute-
linened, but in hodden grey—and irons—mused.
“Well, I see how to do it! You oblige me
with a sheet of the Council’s paper, and arrange
to get the document to Sheriff Macquoid, and I’ll
forge my reprieve. Then you arrange for ratifica-
tion when the Governor returns, three hours
later.”
Pounce died in his bed at Richmond,
V.D.L., in 1843.
PRICE WARUNG.
It is stated in a recent book about Joe
Smith, the Mormon prophet, that Brigham Young
once had nine children born to him in one week.
It is related of the famous Red Prince
that he used to smoke two cigars at a time in a
speci ally-constructed cigar-holder.
It was the Carrington family who baulked
Disraeli in his Wycombe candidatures, though
Wellington and Lyndhurst urged them to give
way.
Wolseley’sbrother, Brigadier-General, com-
mands in the disturbed Manipur districts. Another
brother is the Australian shearing-machine in-
ventor.
A wealthy Sydney M.L.C. sold the N.S.W.
Government some land at North Sydney for
tramway purposes at £25 per foot and rides on
the train free.
“ Assam,” “ Cup,” and “ Hindoo ” Blends, of all
storekeepers, wholesale, Pitt, Brown & Co., Syd,
Ask your grocer for the Assam Blends.
Western Australia, the coming colony. Perth
and should be worth buying and holding for a
rise. W. J. Douglas, £6 Batburst-street, Sydney.
FEDERATION.
This scheme for Federation
Will soon or late secure,
For our Australian Nation,
A power that must endure,
And win for us as much of fame
As Ssowwiiite Flour for Pk.mell’s name.
Tea in 201 b. and 401 b. packages at 1/0, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
Sir Alfred Stephen and Cardinal Moran
were present in the Ruin Chamber for a consider-
able time during the last sitting of the Conven-
tion, and sat side by side. As usual, Law and
Religion were in at the death of Justice.
An American writer says ; —Stanley’s lec-
ture course is a distinct and decided fizzle. He is
a very uninteresting speaker, and he is completely
overshadowed by the brash behaviour of his
mother-in-law, who declares that “ Henry is the
most docile man on earth. ”
London Lord Mayor Savory’s plagiarised
sermon was not stolen by Savory himself, but by
the man whom he employed to write the sermon
for him (though Savory published the thing as his
own). The world is ruled by shams. Behind
all to-day is the skeleton in the cupboard, the
ghost.
The “Professor Parker” now exhibiting
his swordmanship in N.S.W. must not be con-
founded with the “ Professor Parker” (husband of
Rose Beaumont, the singer) who appeared in Aus-
tralia years ago. This latter Parker, it is interest-
ing to know, was the original of Sergeant George
in “Bleak House.” He was killed while riding
in the Gippsland Ranges.
It is said that the denouement of Rudyard
Kipling’s latest story, “ The Light that Failed” —
the blindness falling upon Hick Heldar—was
based on Kipling’s own experience. A Bulletin
man has made a calculation that if Kipling had
been paid for the reproductions of his stories in
the larcenous Australian press—and our con-
tributor sees only a moiety of that influential
section of the newspaper world —Kipling would
have been the richer by over £5OO. As to which,
more anon.
Migraine.
Nervous neadaches and neuralgia are the first,
surest, and most reliable symptoms of approach-
ing decline of physical health. They are distinctly
nerve pains, an infallible telegraph message prog-
nosticative of approaching physical weakness.
They are intimations that the strength is being
impaired. Over-work of any description must
result in enervation and enfeeblement of the
corporeal structure. This wear and tear (termed
by scientists destructive metabolism) may be ,
brought about by worry, excessive mental or
physical labour, by continual attention to business,
by bad food, bad air or any acute sickness, the
duties of maternity, the strain of motherhood,
dissipation, and many other causes. The proper
remedy is Clements Tonic. This must and will
cure the worst and most severe cases. This is a
positive fact; it has done it, and will do it again
always. We are thus emphatic because we know
we are talking facts, which the evidence of dis-
interested persons proves. Mr. Henry A. Crane,
a gentleman well-known all over the colony,
writes ; Dear sir, —Tor the last seven years I
have been a victim to the most excruciating agony
from neuralgia, and also suffered from extreme
nervousness. I tried hundreds of so-called
specifics, but without avail ; and, being a com-
mercial traveller, am particularly liable to colds
from exposure to draughts, &c. ; a slight one even,
always fled to my facial nerves, and caused
neuralgic pains, preventing sleep and causing
excessive sympathetic headache. I saw Clements
Tonic advertised, procured a bottle, and in two
days tlie pain was completely cured, a consum-
mation I had never expected and am deeply
thankful for same. This was four months ago,
and from then till now I have never had the
slightest twinge of the excruciating torture I used
to have. You may make whatever use of this
you like. W. H. East, Esq,, Stanthorpe, Dulwich
Hill, N.S.W., suffered a martyrdom of headaches,
due to disordered liver and indigestion, frequently
having to leave his work in the middle of the day.
He took a course of Clements Tonic, and writes ;
Stanthorpe, Dulwich-street, Petersham. —Dear
si r> —]?or years I have been a great sufferer from
headache, which has at times so prostrated me
that I have been totally unable to attend to my
work. I have consulted the most skilled phy-
sicians in Sydney, and spent considerable money
in fees and medicine. I, however, obtained only
temporary relief, as they treated the effect, and
not the cause. I was recommended Clements
Tonic, and determined to test its efficacy, and I
am very grateful for the good results which have
followed its use. I took five bottles, and am
wonderfully improved, and have had no return of
those excruciating headaches since taking that
valuable remedy. Results like this must encourage
your laudable efforts to alleviate the sufferings of
your fellow men ; and you have my sanction to
publish this. Sydney Cunningham, Esq., 70,
Watkin-street, Newtown (N.S.W.), writes as fol-
lows -.—Dear Sir,—Having been a long sufferer
from neuralgia, which weakened me considerably,
and using various remedies without benefit, I was
induced to give Clements Tonic a trial, and am
pleased to inform you that the result exceeded my
utmost expectations, and after taking five large
bottles I feel better than ever I did in my life
before. My wife and other members of our
family have used it with equal success, and I can
strongly recommend it to others suffering in alike
manner, and offer you this unsolicited testimonial
to use as you think fit.” Reader, can any other
medicine show such a record of cures as Clements
Tonic? We think not.
■ : —♦
The progress made by the Mutual Life
Insurance Company of New York during the year
1890 is fully exhibited in the figures which appear
in the business columns of this week’s issue.
During the year the Company issued 49,188 new
policies for insurances amounting to £33,538,740
19s. lid. and it is stated that this amount is the
largest volume of new business transacted in any
one year since the organization of the Company
in 1843. The policies in force at the close of the
year numbered 206,055 covering insurances amount-
ing to £132,963,930. The payments to policy-
holders for the year amounted to £3,536,683 6s.
lid. The assets of the Company, all invested in
undoubted securities, are quoted at the prodigious
sum of £30,657,283 11s. Bd. After providing full
and stringent reserves for obligations of every
kind, the Company reports a surplus of over two
millions of pounds sterling. These figures should
prove comforting to the Australian policy-holders
with “ the largest and wealthiest insurance
organization in the world.” The principal Aus-
tralian Agency of the Company is at 131 Pitt-
street, Sydney, and is conducted by Major Z. C.
Rennie as General Manager.


-^o/rac/e^
Sittii'jo ej* ~f\det
dtioiy C of )^kj)^ ot ) 't* 1 5 0
Jouyd y°~ iyk 1 S^ofM
/nshf 'S
/ SfautrJ f|
v ' rt.foo.ir yJJIi'
(^Y^ Ll/ . cj ts ksifr
J L $ J° r & 5
Caryhy^o r ~' — 7a)
Pj
fcf-
r
\ *
v °- fr'l
T uS y^VX -
V*-
h c °y)
r '"> p “5
7u'/eo<t ~ 1 / J K<jo*J yt
,Jsic.i> a rZff fcLv'eC.°yc.ou.t! hOs ’
illy blu
'Yr.ijA ' n. I ?^ dcr r V ’t' r
- w4/i a CtrfayiV^V^
3-W «e I /9-T.ct ■
G J~ ffo 0 }
as stv^ir.oCf^
J)j( '
A^C"’V ,r ~,
i- I PRo(jß\nrjj£
~y % ~ /foO 6oyS_,/four j°y >o^<: /S a ?%
Ooy /7 rf/s e r><z A iSapy // / f ee / > S y > ° r
a. $ /''ye.
frajrjei/y, /fcutfj<,//?,.jam* %v<y C/ - AAO .
a l/nir&'si/jf' Za'rffy/faef*. /as A aJafi/rctay /i's6A
l/P&t A sun'*C$ un '*C tfiere. yy A /fcyps^
THE WEEK.


HMH NTS
vixh C u p o|~ Tea , HotWate^
AM Ta T^"T-
-s. pbe p.py cf©: .
Goosfeber r,
f nd /^SrVNrir
l^P f "~
ty 9
A
i
I p
JDi.
O 1 • G’€. Cl
c^) u^c 1 ‘s
Tr
Vou
1 S or v^>
“osi'


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK,
90 KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia.
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deeds,
and all the usual banking business transacted.
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits ;
3 Years ... ... 9i per cent.
12 Months ... .. 8| per cent.
6 Months 7| per cent.
3 Months ... 5| per cent.
5 per ent. allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One peu
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates.
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON.
General Manager
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Is the coining colony. Responsible Government
is now in force. Railways and Harbour works
are to be constructed. The goldfields are proving
to be rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £25
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note. —These allot meats are in selected positions. They
have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“ There is money in it.”
Pamphlets and marked plans posted on applicat ion to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
t 501) PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Society
The affable millionaire, ex-Mayor Burde-
kin, of Sydney—he resigned in order that he might
travel—has depaited for London amid such pomp
and splendour as on occasions of the kind always
surround gilded public men who are not absolute
curmudgeons. The Burdekin is understood to be on
the track of a baronetcy or earldom or marqui-ate,
or some such little trifle. Not long ago Governor
Carington stepped into a city bank, apparently
on business bent, and was followed by Burdekin,
upon whose arrival much hat-lifting and pump-
handling took place. The pair conversed for a
few minutes, and in the course of the confab
Burdekin, with “Excuse me, your Lordship,” set
Baron Charlie’s beautiful blue tie straight, Lady
Carington apparently not having run her pretty
eyes over it that morning. It strikes us
that a millionaire who is on tie-straightening terms
with a Baron, who in his turn is on t’e-straighten-
ing terms with the Heir Apparent, should have
a very excellent chance of “ getting something ”
from the Colonial Office.
# * *
By the way, we hope the ex-Mayor will
remember that it is not considered the cheese in
London West End circles to wear a big cigar in
your jaw if you are driving with a lady. We
mention this to prevent any such awful occurrence
as the public fumigation of Victoria Regina et
Imporatr x with Partaga-smoke.
* * *
Alderman W. p. Manning has unani-
mously been elected Mayor of Sydney. Mr.
Manning is a professional financier in a very large
way and is the Australian representative of some
of the wealthiest of the British investors. As he
bears the reputation of being both straight
and inqu sitive, it is likely that the finances
of the corporation will be put on a thorough
business footing during his term of office. In
public Mr. Manning always eats his peas with a
fork, but it is not known whether his influence
will prevent apple-tait being eaten at the Town
Hall with soup-spoons.
# « #
It happened quite recently. Governor Jer-
sey, with “ Joe ” Carruthers, and another N.S.W.
Minister of the Crown, found themselves together
at an institution where there wai a visitors’ book
to be signed and comment to be made. His Ex.
led off, and having affixed his signature, putin three
lines of favourable comment opposite thereto.
Carruthers was the next to sign, and he, of course,
put his name two lines below “ Jersey’s,” in order
to bring it clear of the overhanging comment.
That was as it should b° ; but then the third man
came along to sign, and he was mentally disturbed
at seeing Carruthers’name next to the Governor’s.
He thought that » his place, seeing that he had
been shadowing H.E. all day, so he acted ac-
cordingly. He ignored the fact that the “turn-
over” of Jersey’s comment required, in due form,
two blank lines to be left below his name, and
straightway splodged, right under Jersey’s and
before Carruthers’, his own immortal monniker.
Name ? Quite unnecessary.
# *
The conduct of the undergraduate yahoos,
or “Liver Push,” of Sydney University at
Saturday’s Commemoration outvied the most
doughty deeds of the Woolloomooloo or Shepherd’s
Bush brigade. These gowned and privileged
hoodlums showed the utmost discourtesy to every-
one present, insulted and silenced the octogenarian
Chancellor and addressed Lady Jersey in a style
which will probably induce her and most other
ladies to stay away from Commemoration next
year. As the University authorities appear in-
capable of leading out these larrikins to gaol by
the ear, the State should step in with a few
muscular policemen as the alternative of with-
drawing all subsidies from an institution which,
instead of being a seat of culture, appears to be a
seed-plot of privileged blackguardism and a train-
ing school for the N.S.W. Parliament. The antics
of the Sydney undergraduates are of the most
hackneyed and undiverting type and are merely
misc-nhle exaggerations of the unmannerly pranks
of he r English prototypes. Up to date, no
Syc ne/University undergraduate has ever said
an original or witty thing at Commemoration,
except once ; on the occasion when a man and a
girl went up together and solemnly stood before
the Chancellor to take the same degree and some-
one said with a loud voice “ I will! ”
# # #
Mr. R. B. Pell, of Broken Hill, N.S.W.,
has just been gazetted town and district coroner.
“ R. B. Pell” is advertised as referee at Felix
Tanner’s 40 days’ fast; “R. B. Pell” was also
stake-holder and referee at the Burge and
M‘Carthy slugging match, when the men fought
19 or 20 rounds, and “at the finish Burge got a
belt under the jaw that sent him to sleep for three
minutes,” There are evidently two people at
Broken Hill named R. B. Pell —or else the old
original R.B.P. went to the prize-fight in his
coronial capacity.
* # *
London Truth has informed its readers
that there is every prospect of Broken Hill Consols
touching ten guineas (as though they were gold
watches or oil-paintings) on the London market.
From which we assume that somebody has already
bought a lot at fifty “ bob.”
* * *
Hawk states that Governor Hopetoun
will shortly abdicate in favour of Governor
Onslow, he (Hopetoun) having been a failure. It
is Mr. De Moleyns, Governor Hopetoun’s brother-
in-law, who has been the failure, and if you don’t
believe it just enquire at Toorak.
* * #
Hopetoun is a veritable artesian well of
wisdom, and a perennial flow of sparkling ideas.
The other day he found himself called upon to
offer advice concerning agriculture, and virgin
soil, and other matters of that description. Now,
the larger the subject the better for Hopetoun—
give him plenty of scope and his lordship becomes
immense. With knitted brows and an eye peer-
ing into the distant future, he said, calmly, deli-
berately, and with the air of a thinker who has
just struck it rich —“Every rood of land in Vic-
toria must be made the most of.” A gasp of
astonishment, followed by a loud peal of applause,
proclaimed that another of Hopetoun’s proverbs
had sunk deep into the hearts of the people.
* * #
James Johnston, who, while in a state of
mental depression, consequent on the discovery of
a big forgery he had committed, killed his wife
and children at Ballarat, and then almost fatally
cut his throat, has been convicted and sentenced
to death. He was carried into court on a stretcher.
It is pretty certain that he will not be executed —
although one can never reckon what the Executive
—generally wooden-headed in such eases —may do.
The question of Johnston’s mental responsibility
IN RE THE CAPITOL.
ANXIOUS INFANT: “And where is
the seat of Government likely to
be, Old Man ? ”
PARKES : “Wherever Hi sit, my little
dear, and don't you forget it! ”
at the time is,-in the opinion of sensible people,
completely settled by the fact that he admittedly
did his very level best to kill himself. If Johnston
had killed himself without killing his family, the
coroner’s jury would, of course, have found a
verdict of suicide while temporarily insane; and
surely it is no proof of a man’s sanity that he did
kill his wife and children. If the law hangs
Johnston, Johnston will die for the logical pur-
pose of encouraging homicidal cranks who have
committed murder, to be sure and slit their own
weasands in the right place.
* # #
We again read in a Sydney daily of the
man who was “much surprised and affected” on
receiving a testimonial about which there had
been fulsome “ progress paragraphs ” in all the
papers.
# * #
It is cabled that an Englishman has been
arrested in Paris for having married 43 wives and
decamped every time with the wedding-presents.
What a lot of electro-fish-slices he must have !
* * #
American girls are alleged to be finding
fault with women doctors for their want of delicacy.
The nicest he-leeches always used to drop their
voices and look dreamy when certain mysterious
matters came under discussion, whereas the prac-
tical doctoresses talk of Nature to one of their
own sex as though it weren’t in the least bit
indecent. Briefly, the transatlantic nymph has
no longer any excuse for giggling during medical
treatment, nor is there any joy in sharing strange
secrets with a practitioner who can’t make her
feel so dreadfully awkward, my dear, every time
she meets her in society. Therefore, something
seems wanting in the life of a high-toned Yankee
maiden, and now that she can’t have her pulse
felt by a manly, lingering paw, she has loft off
experiencing a strange sinking sensation so often
as she used to in the old, happy days.—
Lay-’em-out Price and his melodramatic
Mounted Rifles are sure to be a success at the
military tournament in London. The cockneys
will treat them as a new Australian edition of
Buffalo Bill and the cowboys.
* # #
One incident of Sir George Grey’s visit to
Sydney has not yet been fully recorded. It was
the funniest thing seen in public for a good while
and occurred at the meeting between Sir John
Robertson and Grey at the historically enthusiastic
reception given to the latter by the Maorilanders
in Sydney Town Hall. Neither of the two
Knights knew the identity of the other, but old
Jack’s flowing locks and the cheers of the crowd
indicated that he was a popular old fossil of some
kind, and when he went to sit down next to Sir
George the latter put out his hand as if to wel-
come him. But Sir Jack hadn’t been introduced,
you know, and being perhaps in one of his
tantrums quietly turned away—didn’t like liber-
ties. Then people laughed, and he had another
look at Grey, and they both looked at one another.
In a few moments they began to whisper, and
finally (after having sat together for about five
minutes) they started to shake hands vigorously—
which dumb show set the house in a roar. From
that out Sir Jack was the most hearty in his
applause of his brother veteran. In fact, so
boisterous did he become that at the close c f the
proceedings he started to rush everybody forward
to present them to the great pro-consul, and
amongst others took the hands of Mrs. Seymour
George (Sir George Grey’s own niece) and her
daughter to lead them up to him ! At this the
Maorilanders simply screamed.
* # #
During his final speech in Convention, Sir
George Grey made a trifling slip by referring to
Attorney-General Clark as the representative of
“VanDieman’s Land.” There was a guffaw at
this from the assembled Convention’sts, the
cachinnators overlooking the circumstance that
for thirty years of strenuous official life the
veteran had been in the habit of accurately writ-
ing and uttering the ancient designation of the
island colony. Their breach of good manners
provokes the retort that Grey was the one speaker
who never tripped into a barbarism of speech.
Even the rhetorical Deakin, who stood next to
the MaoriJander in point of precision of phrase,
fell more than once into painful solecisms. As for
Parkes, his speech on the motion to adopt the
Constitution Bill was perhaps the most aifch-less
and aitch-ful that he has ever delivered. Which
is saying a good deal.
* *
Petherick has sent us a copy of “A
Colonial Reformer,” Rolf Boldrewood’s latest-
published story. At least that is what the re-
viewers call it. We recognise in Mr. Ernest
Neuchamp, the hero of the book, however, a very
old friend indeed. We wish Rolf, in addition to
being so exact in his Australian colouring, were
not so dreadfully anachronistic. His books pro-
fess to be pictures of Australian life, but strict
attention to the mode of the period is
the essence of faithful portraiture, and in the
whole series of his works, chatty, vigorous
Boldrewood too often errs in making an episode
or a character move in a sphere chronologically
impossible.
# # *
A newly-married woman, the bride of a
fortnight, named Priscilla Petrich, committed
suicide in Sydney a few days ago, because, poof
soul, she couldn’t cook. If all other wives simi-
larly situated were to follow her sad example
there would be a terrible number of gaps in tins
year’s census-papers. The danger is not imminent,
however.
® # #
The Women’s Literary Society of New
South Wales has made its second public appear-
ance, as host at an invitation conversazione. If
literature can be encouraged among women by the
formation of a society it is high time that some
such movement were pushed forward in Sydney.
Women who can write are generally glad enough
to write for money, and yet, curiously enough,
The Bulletin does not remember having pub-
lished six purely literary original contributions
from N.S.W. ladies in over ten years. Nor does
it recollect having seen in any of its N.S.W. con-
temporaries any work from local female hands
the privilege of publishing which it envied.
Leaving out of the question members of the fair
sex who are paid salaries for more or less newsy
and compilatory work, and who may or may not
be capable of doing anything better, we know of
but one N.S.W. lady whose copy commands
money wherever offered in Australia, and that
lady is an Englishwoman who writes equally
well in both French and English, prose and
verse, and who has been in Australia for
about five years. On the other hand Queensland
has at least two or three excellent women
writers ; Victoria also ; likewise South Australia,
Tasmania and Maoriland.
# # *
Verbatim extract from the casualty book
at Melbourne Hospital as the police found it last
week, when they went to inquire about a gentle-
man with a broken head
Whilst he and his wife was in old Joe Thompson’s house
n Bouverie-street, Mary Ellen King came in and knocked
him down with a bottle, and seven men went for him.
The statement was plain and to the point, and
yet a row was kicked up because it didn’t set forth
that the patient was suffering from some profound
Latin complaint in the head, and an old Greek
root in the right eye.
* * *
Never again shall we write the phrase :
“He was no one’s enemy but his own.” In future
we say this : “He neglected life’s solids for its
fluids.”
* # «.
Her Gracious’s ironclad Penguin has been
a profitable speculation for the Australian police-
man. At every port which that vessel has visited
every man bolted who could possibly get away,
and for each deserter there was offered the cus-
tomary reward of £3 —which is increased to £6 if
the missing individual doesn’t turn up within the
first day. When the absentee is recovered he is
locked up for a few weeks or months in a cell, and
his pay is stopped, and in addition he is debited
with the reward paid for his recovery, so that ho
is generally in debt to Victoria by the Grace of
God, &c., and that sovereign lady has a good deal
of trouble and difficulty in collecting the bill.
The band will now strike up “ Rule Britannia.”
THOSE DELICATE GIRLS.
The delicate girl has been heard to declare,
With a shake of her scandalised tresses,
That when she is ailing she cannot abear
The treatment of rude doctoresses ;
Oh, whether she’s plump, or as lean as a goat
That staryes in the time of a famine —
Whate’er her complaint, she’ll religiously vote
For a man to come in and “examine.”
A creature in skirts (very likely in specs.),
May be of diseases a curer,
But maidens find folks of the opposite sex
More innocent-minded and purer ;
There’s something so nice in the gentleman’s
touch
For a girl in a weakly condition,
Whereas she is never made happy, not much,
By the squeeze of a lady-physician.
Her friend, Doctor Bill, was unmarried and
young,
And smirked as he offered his greeting ;
She’d sigh when he gazed at the tip of her tongue,
Or timed how her bosom was beating ;
And when dearest mamma had tried to explain
How long daughter Lil had been sick, he’d
Turn round very slowly and eye her again
In a way scientific and wicked.
But Mary M.D. calls a shovel a spade,
And isn’t the least sympathetic,
She knows, right away, what is wrong with the
maid,
And orders a pill, or emetic;
She don’t want her patient, in scanty attire,
To show her those natural beauties
The doctor was always so apt to admire
Before he completed his duties.
The delicate girl means to go upon strike
For Bill, as of old. to attend her.
The kind of advice that such sufferers like
Comes best from the masculine gender.
Yet ice, who are up to the tricks of mankind—
We husbands and fathers, or couriers—
Think Mary M.D. was by Nature designed
To doctor all Mother Eve’s daughters.
E. F.
THE LOVE THAT LASTS.
I do not love a maiden fair;
Her tresses shame the carrots,
Her lips are not a happy pair,
Her nose is like a parrot’s;
She has not got the witching eye
That people write a verse on—
But yet she is, -which none deny,
A capital young person.
In spite of all her “ blooming cheek ”
Her face is rather pasty,
Although her wit is slow and weak,
Her temper’s strong and hasty ;
They say her form is long and lank :
I’ve heard her called a “rafter ”
Her nice, round figure at the hank
Is what I’m looking after.


To overcome weakness.—Pepper’s Quinine
and Iron Tonic gives new life, appetite, health,
strength, energy. Cures neuralgia, indigestion,
nerve debility. .Bottles, 2s. Od. Insist on having
Pepper’s Tonic.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Ttie London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Clarenoe-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
or port in N. S-Wales.
—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD.
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OP YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES
LONDON —110 Cannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE—2S3 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE —Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE - 37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE
Lord Click H. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classes
of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits
3 Months ... 0 per cent.
6 Months
12 Months
3 Years
7 per cent.
8 per cent.
9 per cent.
The dividend of 10 per cent, (the last), declared on
28th January, 1891, is now payable at the Head Office,
Pitt and Market streets.
A. MILLER
General Manager.
GOOD
Packed in
SO-lb. and 40-lb. Chests.
Price:
1/6, 1/9, 3/-, & 3/6 per lb.
Write to us for
Samples, Post Free
Things are unusually bad in Melbourne.
Nobody is getting any “ fines ” worth mentioning
—’oept the hangman, who now has a steady
average of a wictim a week.
* .* *
Mayor Cohen, of Adelaide, is advised by
his doctors to take a sea-voyage. Mr. Cohen has
a just claim to the £5OOO a year paid by the State
to Gov. Kintore, as, owing to the social reserve
and “ Scotch ” finance conspicuous at Adelaide
Government House, all the entertaining falls on
his shoulders.
* * *
In the smart Australian novel, “ The
Bride from the Bush,” which the Cornhill in
London and several weeklies in what Mr.
Hornung was accustomed to call “the Aus-
twalian Kawlinies ’’—published as “ a work by a
new author ’’—the heroine, Gladys Bligh (the
“Bride”) is a caricature of a living person who
sent Mr. Hornung, the author, about his busi-
ness. Hornung was a tutor at Mossgiel Station,
Riverina, for about eleven months, and spent
another three or four months in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and it must be said that the local colour
which he managed to impart to his book certainly
indicates a keenness of vision and a clearness of
brain seldom found in the imported tutor, don-
cherknow. Hornung, however, errs —“ lies ”is a
nasty word—in calling Gladys a typical Aus-
tralian girl—we should be glad to think he was
equally inaccurate in depicting high-toned English
society. The society in which, according to him,
judges, members of Parliament, and royalty com-
mingle equals the blackguardism of the Rocks and
Little Bourke-streets—with a gloss on.
* # #
When Premier Ballance was lately ban-
queted by his Wanganui constituents, some joker
lent a dress-suit and gave a guinea ticket to a
local sot known to be very rowdy whe.n drunk.
But the boozer, much to the disgust of his patron,
kept reasonably sober all the time and made no
noise. Next day, however, he pawned the dress-
suit for a pound, sent the ticket to the owner, and
went on a howling spree.
# * *
A Sydney lodginghouse-keeper was very
thankful the other day when one of her boarders
—who intended to leave next day—volunteered to
fill in her census-paper. Having obtained par-
ticulars concerning all in the house, he retired to
his room and described his hostess as “55,
divorced, hashmaker, idiotic, native of Kilkenny,
and a fanatical Roman Catholic.” A very swell
“master-hairdresser, who resided in the estab-
lishment, was put down as a “shearer,” and a
Civil Servant, who thinks no small beer of him-
self, was described as “Boots and generally use-
ful.” The fraud was only discovered when the
Census-collector arrived and started to check the
returns.
# * *
A month or two back The Bulletin
wanted to know what the Government were going
to do with the convict who went into Darling-
hurst twenty odd years ago, as a boy under
sentence tor life, now that they know he has in-
herited a large fortune? This prisoner has never
seen the sea, having been born up-country, and
having lived there till his conviction. In all
worldly matters of an honourable kind he must be
a literal innocent. The least the authorities can
do is to take care that when he goes out he does
not exchange his capital for somebody else’s ex-
perience.
# # #
Lord Rosehill, A.D.C. to His Excellency
Hopetoun, sailed for London by the Ballaarat
The band of the N.S.W. Naval Artillery
Volunteers have been dismissed, because, having
a grudge against their superiors which they wished
to “feed fat,” they played in discord at the
officers’ mess. There is a lot of humour in this
situation if you only dig down for it.
* * «
The other day an Australian legal official,
now on leave, appeared in George-street, Sydney,
in a most fantoddical condition, carrying a very
long-handled and gaudy lady’s sunshade under
his arm. We are glad to see him enjoying his
little self.
* * *
“ The Servers,” a new Trade League, is
proposed at Melbourne. These are the •“ lady
helps,” between Scylla and Charybdis, the Devil
and the deep sea, the missises and the Connemara
girls. The lady helps had better turn out, like
the tailoresses, in the Trades’ Hall procession,
skipping over the gutters. This Union, and the
vulgar domestics’, prosper.
# * #
A small youth who was arrested last week
for sleeping in the Melbourne streets told a tale
that made even the hardened constables weep and
the horny inspector of nuisances break down
from emotion. His beloved parents, he said, had
A DISTINCT ALIBI.
SCHOOL TEACHER ( sternly ): “Now, sir,
tell me who was the infamous author
of the Gunpowder Plot?”
SMALL CULPRIT (withering under teacher's
eagle stare) : “Please, sir, it wasn’t
me. We only moved here last week
from Dubbo!”
passed away, and left him homeless and friendless
in a strange, wild land ; and for a fortnight past
he had slept on the cold, moist grass above their
graves, with nothing but two cold tombstones to
keep him up. The kind-hearted policemen made
him comfortable for the night, and were just
growing lachrymose over some further details of
his sad history next morning when his mother
came and “skelped ” him away.
* * *
A Melbourne man was brought up the
other day at the Police Court, charged with
travelling without a railway-ticket and using
appalling language to a porter who asked his
address. He acknowledged the ticket, but, with
regard to the swearing, he stated briefly that he
trusted Providence would strike him dead and
blast his remains with lightning if he had sworn
at that crimson porter. So he was acquitted
right there.
# * *
Gov. Kintore has had a week of banquet-
ing, picnics, dances, &c., at Port Darwin. These
items come under the heading “ Privations of the
Journey.” The only thing necessary to complete
the agony would be for Algernon to negotiate a
Chinese shduffin’ lunch.
* * #
The first performance of marriage at the
new Melbourne Cathedral was to come off this
week (Wednesday).
# * *
Mr. Kenneth Mackay, of Wallendbeen
(N.S.W.), the well-known amateur jockey and
verse-writer, has just been married to Miss Mabel
White, of Kyneton, Vic.
# * *
Percy Macdonnell, the well - known
cricketer, now manager of a Sydney branch bank,
was last week married to Miss Grace Macdonald,
fourth daughter of Mr. W. Macdonald, “ Invera-
ry,” Rand wick.
# # *
The worthy Italians have started a public
subscription to purchase bronze wreaths for two
seamen of H.M.S. Rodney. They are brave
fellows apparently, but if they don’t flinch at the
thought of those wreaths they must be more than
human. Picture Jack ashore, with a yellow-
haired girl on either arm, and the Italian tribute
slipping down over his dexter optic.
# * *
Melbourne Duffy, the Victorian P.M.G.,
has returned from Sydney with a stern resolve to
improve the Melbourne Post-office arrangemen s,
as regards counter business. Hitherto the Mel-
bourne “ registered-letter ” department nymphs
have been studied through a wire network, just as
though they were wild animals, or an aviary or
feathered songsters. For the future they will
beam across the counter in the ordinary way.
Anon, when the building is further enlarged,
Duffy intends to abolish the wooden partitions,
with holes in ’em, that shut off the fair stamp-dis-
nensers from an outside world and make them so
uncommonly suggestive of a peep-show, in due
course their veil of mystery will be torn away by
the official iconoclast, and a fellow who wants to
communicate with Matilda through the post will
no longer feel like a sinner at confessional when
he goes to buy a penny Queen’s-head with gum
behind it.
** . .
"' r The man who inserts a satirical In
Memoriam notice of his mother-in-law’s death was
probably deserving of all her persecution when
the old girl was on earth.
# * *
Taken from a little jewel-robbery yarn by
Sir Somebody, Bart. : “He had several interviews
with the body servant of that well-known klepto-
maniac, the Duke of St. Pancras, and his Grace s
'curious hiding places were carefully searched, but
beyond a few coroneted forks and spoons, two or
three cigar-cases, and some half-dozen serviettes,
nothing was discovered.” Which seems to remind
us for some unaccountable reason, that the Lari or
j) ’ s name has quite dropped out of notice.
** * •
The Chinese fight chiefly with stink-pots.
That being so, they will never dare to invade
Smellbourne.
An Adelaide drunk pleaded “sore feet”
the other day. Pater, P.M. muttered “sore
head ” and fined him the usual.
A correspondent suggests that the prize-
fighters, “who are a lazy and useless lot when
they haven’t got ’em on,” should be “hired to
punch the insulting cabmen who always want
twice their fare.”
« * *
All the widows of the men killed in the
Lithgow Colliery explosion have re-married, and
have claimed £lOO dowries out of the explosion
relief-fund. Such is life.
# # #
Charles Shaw, prominent Victorian Free-
mason and erstwhile wholesale jeweller, died last
week. Melbourne business men will remember
him as the hero of a big insolvency case which
threw a brilliant light on the machinery of the
Bank sweating-room.
* # #
From S.M. Herald’s London correspond-
ence :
A good mot is credited to Mr. Haddon Chambers. On
the first night of his new piece, “ The Idler,” he was in-
troduced to the Duchess of Leinster, one of the reigning
beauties of London society, who congratulated him very
warmly on the success of his play, saying that she should
send all her friends to witness it. “In that case, your
grace,” said Mr. Chambers, with a courtly bow, “ the
piece will go on running for ever.”
Nothing succeeds like success, dear friends.
Haddon’s alleged mot (which isn’t original—and
was no doubt communicated to the Herald’s
London correspondent either by the beautiful
Duchess or the little man who made to her what
no little man can possibly make—i.e., a “courtly”
bow) is a poor thing, and we should be .ashamed
to throw it off our chest at the yard-dog, to say
nothing of the Duchess of Leinster. Sheol is full
of men who have tried to advertise themselves on
such ghastly “witticisms.”
* # *
It is cabled that the police have raided an
English Baccarat-club and arrested 100 persons.
Not at Tranby Croft, but in the Strand.
Buy Wolfe’s Schnapps by the bottle.
Drunkards employed as Victorian Census-
gatherers. Results —none.
Five hundred and twenty-one people own
half the sold land in N.S.W.
As a lot, the S.A. delegates took the palm
as debaters at the Convention.
The latest ukase from the N.S.W. Free-
trade Council : “We must fight the Labour
Party.”
Most of the Convention delegates who
constructed the “ Commonwealth ” stayed, while
in Sydney, at the “ Empire ” Hotel.
The Union Club has 500 votes for Last
Sydney ! And yet nearly every club member has
a vote or votes in other constituencies.
The electoral-bill of the Parkes Ministry
provides for the closing of publie-houses on elec-
tion-day and for the abolition of the hustings.
What may happen to a N.S.W. candidate
for Parliament. Elector: “Mr. Pulsford, are
you in favour of putting wooden legs on one-eyed
dogs ?”
Premier Parkes, “cerebrated,” if he did
not cabbage, the motto “ One people, one destiny ’
from Quaker John Bright. Never original. Same
old Parkes.
The N.S.W. Local Government Bill “ will
positively be dealt with next session.” r loolate,
too late as a political “fake.” Parkes has travelled
on it for 2G years.
Fitzgibbon, Melbourne’s Recorder, over-
shoots "the mark in connection with the Bible in
schools. The League partially disclaims him, but
he shows the true reductio ad absurdum.
Premier Parkes has asked the N.S.W.
Labour Commission when they can furnish him
with a report, as he “wants to introduce legisla-
tion next session.” Beautiful old humbug !
A certain wealthy N.S.W. M.L.A. gives
his committee £1 sterling for every vote recorded
for him, out of which they pay all expenses and
whack the balance. On his committee is a member
of each of the leading religious creeds.
Rosebery moves to alter the title of the
Imperial Federation League. Henniker Heaton
moves an amendment that the League, having
failed to achieve its objects, be dissolved. In
other words, that it commit suicide to avoid a
natural death.
The Bennett family, of Sydney, issue
papers to suit all political tastes. This is cut
from their high-toned organ—the one which prints
half-page likenesses of amateur warriors with
feathers in their hats :
Signs are not wanting that a strong anti-Democratio
movement will set in before long 1 , as the outcome of all
the seditious drivel that has been preached of late. In
the best interests of society and our country the awaken-
ing cannot come too soon.
Her breath is not exceeding sweet,
Her teeth are black and yellow,
I often think her heavy feet
Were made to kick a fellow ;
Her song is like the nanny-goat’s,
But, put her to the test, O !
And she’ll produce the richest notes
From out her wooden chest , 0 !
A straw for girls with noble necks.
Whose curve our pulses quickens—
One sovereign of the softer sex
Ain’t fifty thousand “thick ’uns.”
Poor envy’s jest but makes me laugh.
Nor in my bosom rankles—
My idol is the golden calf,
And never mind her ankles.
E.F.
THE ROSEHILL SMILE.
In Melbourne’s uppah classes
All the maidens’ eyes are red,
There are tears upon their pillows
As they ruminate in bed,
They 101 l around and languish
In a touching toney style.
And they utter cries of anguish
For his lordship’s toothy smile.
He used to thrill their bosoms
With his simple sandy glance,
He was chiefest of attractions
At the dinner fete or dance;
He always looked so winning
And so destitute of guile
For the sweetest thing in grinning,
Was the toothy Rosehill smile.
At the vice-regaelic function
It was ever to be seen,
So remindful of our childhood
In its innocence serene;
’Twas a feature of the races,
Where we’ll miss it for awhile —
It was just like “making faces ”
Was the toothy Rosehill smile.
At a certain favoured cafe
Where his lordship loved to eat,
His grin was as a sunbeam
Falling brightly on the meat;
When he toyed with his pertaters
In a spirit volatile,
O ! it paralysed the waiters,
Did the toothy Rosehill smile.
Have you ever, gentle reader,
Seen him grace a pnvate-box,
With the angels watching o’er him,
Clad in Worth of Paris frocks?
Or, in circle-seat, delighting
Half-a-dozen nymphs nubile,
Who were femininely fighting
For their darling’s toothy smile?
In Melbourne’s uppah classes
Even wives are looking glum
(As regards that social subject
We had better murmur “ mum
And the poet, too, is weeping
Like a good old crocodile,
For it haunts him when he’s sleeping,
Does the well-remembered smile.
Peculiar Infatuation.
DIFFERENT METHODS OF FOLLOWING THE IN-
JUNCTION “ LOVE ONE ANOTHER.”
Do men ever fall in love with each other?
Women do. Not long ago a young woman in
Jersey was married to a youthful labourer on her
father’s farm. Some time afterwards it was dis-
covered that the husband was a female. The
young wife refused, however, though earnestly en-
treated by her friends, to give up her chosen
consort. The strangest part of the discovery was
the fact that the bride knew her husband was a
woman before she was led to the altar. _
If men do not exhibit this strange infatuation
for one of their own sex, they at least oftentimes
give evidence of the fact that they love one
another. There are many instances on record
where one man has given his life for another.
It is a proud possession—the knowledge that
one has saved a precious human life. Diraboola,
Victoria, is the home of such a happy man. Mr.
y. Hughes, cordial manufacturer, of that town,
August 22, 1890, writes : —“ Four years ago, when
practising for the local sports, I became pros-
trated in health, X was under the impression that
heart disease would cut short my life. My liver
was enlarged, and my doctor ordered me complete
rest from business as well as training. My
kidneys became disordered, and my water was
filled wuth brick-dust and gravel. Finding my
coinplaint, instead of being checked, assumed a
more serious form, I took a friend’s adv’ce, and
started upon a course of Warner’s safe cure.
Almost instantly relief followed, and after the
third or fourth bottle, felt convinced that my
disease, though far advanced, would soon be
cured. The pains in the heart ceased entirely,
the urine became clearer, and the medicine has
wrought an unexpected change in my condition.
I always recommend Warner’s safe cure.”
Friendship expresses itself in very peculiar
ways sometimes ; but the true friend is the friend
in need.


The Commercial Agency
Trading Ik Banking Co.,
Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1874.
CAPITAL Authorised, £‘500,000.
Head. Office:
579 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Sydney Arcade).
NEWCASTLE BRANCH—HUNTER STREET.
Chairman of Directors :
J. IS. TONKIN, Esq., M.L.A.
Make advances on Approved Mercantile, Agricultural,
and 1 astoral Securities, Negotiate Mortgages, and transact
all usual ° ° ’
BANKING BUSINESS.
Special Facilities Accorded to Mercantile Clients.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED
at the following rates of interest:
“ months 8 per cent.
C months .. .. ~ ..7 percent.
■i months and Current Accounts . 5 per cent.
Payable Quarterly, Half-Yearly, or Annually.
Depositors of 12 Months Renewed Share in Bonus out
of Profits of the Company.
JOHN 11. NATHAN, General Manager.
Miscellaneous.
QENTENNIAL TOWN HALL.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
of the
MISSES ALBU.
TICKETS-ss, 3s, 2s, and ONE SHILLING,
AT NICHOLSONS.
Over 2800 Persons visited the Town Hall on the
occasion of the MISSES ALBU’S Previous
Concert.
ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
“ -A-DiLM BEDE.”
The Original Promoterl
BIRTHDAY CUP
RANDWICK, MAY 25, 1891.
10,000 At 10 each 10,000
gjf
N.S 450
10 at 5 each SCO
25 at 20 each 500
40 at 10 each 400
Address
“ Adam Bede,” c/o H. N. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TATTERSALL’S
BIRTHDAY cxjp.
50,000 at 10 50,000
First, 10,000; Second, 3000 ; Third, 2000; S. 2000; N.S 3000
20 at 100, 2000; 20 at 50, 1000; 25 at 20, 500; loo’at 10
1000 ; 100 at 5, 500.
265—extra—265
Address—" TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Club, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LYCEUM THEATEE and HOTEL,
now in course of Erection,
PITT + STREET + SYDNEY.
For Terms to Lease Same Separately, apply to
W. T. MUSTON,
Royal Park, Willoughby, SYDNEY.
..To Proprietors of Concert Companies, &c.
~we . ‘^l”n ed is °P en t 0 undertake BUSINESS
MANAGEMENT for first-class Musical Entertainments
visiting Sydney.
W. S. SI •- IiCAIiFP, 55 Hunter Street, or care
lalmg & Co., George Street, Sydney (late Agent and
Mana;er for Mdms. Anna Bishop and De Murska, Pro-
fessor Pepper, Levy, Giorza, &c.)
MEDCALFE’S Musical, Educational, and General
Agency, 55 Hunter-st. (Conservatory Music),
Mornings only.
Now Ready : Post Tree, Is. 6d.
THE LIFE, ADVENTURES and CON-
FESSIONS OF A SYDNEY BARMAID;
being a truthful account of Private and Public
Bars, the Inner Life of Cafes, and the Manners,
Habits, Customs, Aspirations, and Morals of
Barmaids generally, with a glance at the patrons
of Private Bars. Highly interesting. To be had
only of Mdme. PANZA, Box 913 G.P.O.
NEVER HEARD OP BEFORE.—Dorothy Waltz
Is lOd ; Blue Pacific Waltz, Is lOd ; Paul Jones
Waltz, Is lOd; Love’s Golden Dream Waltz, Is lOd ; and
500 other Waltzes at same price; Kowalski's March
Hongroise, Is lOd ; Old and New Gavotte, Is lOd ; Alice
.by Woyke), IslOd ; and heaps of others to chose from •
Ora pro Nobis Is lOd ; Jack Ashore (charming Baritone
song), Is lOd ; Why must we say Good-bye, Is lOd • The
Bogie Man (rage of Sydney), lid; and'piles of other
Favourite and popular songs ; all Is Music Books and
Annuals at lid. Tutors and Exercises for every instru-
ment. 6s Cd parcels and over sent post free. ' Violins
not the cheap, painted boxes (which ruin the touch and
ear of the performer), but real good models, with correct
gauges, at all prices. J. ALBERT & SON, King Street
Sydney, the cheapest place for Music, Violins, Aocordeons’
Anglos, Flutes, Strings, Guitars, Banjos, and Repairs. ’
ID STOUT PEOPLE
CORPUS reduces superfluous flesh
easily, p.casmtly, and certainly, without hardship
Ireatme containing advice and full explanation of
method sent in plain ciu elope on receipt of six stamps.
Edwin Peck, Box 161 G P.O. MELBOURNE.
N
OTICE - Mr. J. G. MOLLER has been
appointed solo agent for the sale of Thk
dixktin in Orange.
Furniture, etc.
John Lawler & Sons,
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinet Makers, Im-
porters of Bedsteads, Chairs, Furniture,
Carpets and Floorcloths,
608 George Street, Sydney, isn
Price List & Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
i^ 0I A?A I mmT,x??? ETCIIER WITH WIRE
Jr, MAIIRES&. For Hotels, Camps, and
Bakonys. Sizes, 2ft. 3in., 2ft. Cin., 3ft. 3ft. 6in.,
4ft. Gin. x 6ft. 2m. Price, 205., 225. Gd., 255., 275.
ucl., each.
gjfgjf
Bedsteads. Half-
Tester and Four-
p:)st, black and brass, lin.
post, extended footrail,
3ft, 30s; 3ft Gin, 35s :
4ft Gin, 40s.
No. 1131, 2in taper foot-
rail, 50s, 555, GOs.
~ 457, hand nol-
idied, GOs, 70s, 755.
~ 4G4, 2in taper hand
pol., 80s, 90s, 100 s.
Childrens’ Go's, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 455, 50s.
OVEN WIRE SPRING MATH ESSES.
No. 0, Single wire
Nc- 1, ~ „ with ply-
strands
No. 2, all double wire
No. 3, all d. close woven
stronger frame
No. 4, the national
hravy wTe and fi ,
centre. This style is made to suit parties
sensitive to any motion arising from the ordin-
ary spring bed, which this device entirely
obviates. The fabric is cut through the mid-
dle so that each person has distinct and
separate sleeping arrangements; price, for
4ft G n, 30s.
Wire Mattresses for cots -
4x2, 10/; 4J x 2Jr, 12/; 5x 3, 15/
EDDING, best’quality—
-77 _ 2ft 6in
.Paillasses, white Forfar 9/
Mattresses, flock 15/
~ Java kapok 20/
J ava kapok, extra super.,
sin. borders, d. thick. 27/6
Hair Mattresses, extra
super., 2/per lb. 40/
Bolsters, hair 7/
„ kapok 5/
Pillows, kapok (lar. size) 3/6
~ white Irish goose
feathers 7/(j
gj
We Manufacture a
TRADE QUALITY
BEDDING, which
we can SELL at 25
per cent, less than
the above prices, but
we do not care to
recommend it.
LAWLERS most effective DRAWING.
ROOM SUITE, comprising ; Full-sized
Circular Settee, two Tub Easy Chairs and six
other Chairs, may be had ebonized and gold, or
the frames polished a beautiful walnut colour.
Spring set, top stuffed hair, and covered in hand-
some silk and wool tapestry, with plush borders.
£27 10s.
u
lAWLER’S fast-sell-
J ing and luxurious
“ Eugene,” spring set
head and full spring set
■edge and seat ; uphol-
stered in very best man-
ner, top stuffed hair, and
covered in first-class fancy cretonne, £3 19s.
LAWLER’S “Easiest
of Easies the most
comfortable Easy Chair
made; spring set, splen-
didly upholstered, stuffed
all over, and covered in
Artistic Cretonne, £3 3
If in Repp, £3 15
If in Leather, £5 0
f
it£V
r,
dr
CO IT c H. - Stained
and polished Wal-
nut or Mahogany and
covered in leather cloth
and castored, £1 12s Cd.
If in best cretonne, £llss
repp, £2 2s Gd ; hair-cloth, £2 15s Gd.
FOR HALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing-room Furniture, Bed-
room and Kitchen Furniture go to LAWLER’S
GOB George-street, Sydney. Write for estimates. ’
Enquiries ANSwERED~and~PRicEs
quoted^immedlately upon receipt of letter.
JOHN LAWLER % SONST
608 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Q. A R R I C K THEATRE
Castlercagh Street, between King & Maiket Streets.
TO-NIGHT AND EVEIIY EVENING,
‘ BRIDGET O’BRIEN, ESQ.”
The Sheridan Boom, a Pronounced Success.
A VERITABLE COMIC OPERA.
ADMISSION—Ss., 45., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s Tickets for all parts Garrick
Hotel next theatre. Manager for Mr. Sheridan, H.
Vincent West.
J£ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager ... Mr. Geo. Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 8. Carriages at 10.45.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
IMIIR.. G-. DaiG-3sTOXjXD
and
HER MAJESTY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY,
. including Mrs. Geo. Rignold in
BENJAMIN LANDECK’S SENSATIONAL DRAMA,
“My Jack.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITER I ON THEATRE*
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicauit.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.30.
'FRIDAY, APRIL 17, REAPPEARANCE
of
Mr. and Mrs. Brough, Mr. Titheradge, Mr 1 Ward,
and
OTHER MEMBERS OF THE POPULAR COMPANY
in
F. C. BURNAND’S Comedy, entitled,
TIEUE COLONEL.”
Pi ices ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s
■J* HEA T R E ROYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
rnI re fk llr T v; •• Mr * Geo - Goodman,
under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18, will be Produced
London Day L»y Day,
By Messrs. Sims and Barrett.
Prices of Admission—ss., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
QOOGEE palace aquarium.
Lessee .... Wm. Larmour.
1001 —Attract inns Every Hay J— JOOl *
laiied Entertainment every Saturday Afternoon at 4.
Select Sacred and Classical Concert every Sunday
Afternoon at 4 o’clock.
SELECT QUADRILLE ASSSEMBLY
Every Wednesday Night from 8 till 11. Ingham’s String
Band. Double Ticket, Is. Cd. ; Single, Is.
The Wild Buffaloes, the Herd of Spanish Donkeys the
Kangaroos, Emus, Monkeys, Aviaries, Talking Parrots
Eagles, Ponies, and the Finest Collection of Fish in Aus-
tralia are sufficient to repay a long journey to see them.
Visitors come to Coogee for a Pleasant Day.
C Y C L O R A. M A..
The Battle of Gettysburg.
Just added, New and Wonderful Effectsßugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wounded in the gloom of night. The Dead March!
The Storm: Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
d and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Oyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Brino-
the children. s
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY a SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
gCH O O L
Lessee ....
Business Manager
O F
ARTS
Mr. Dan Tracev.
Mr. Ai.f. M. Hazoewood.
TREMENDOUS SUCCESS OF
DAN TRACEY’S VAUDEVILLE, MINSTREL
and
SPECIALITY COMPANY.
Entire Change of Programme—Every Item New.
Tieniendous Hit of America’s Greatest Dancer,
DAN TRACEY.
o,v°j?.x?^,? ric . o , B: ol ' ohestla chairs. 2s ; stalls, Is ; gallery,
SIXPENCE Matinee every Saturday, at 3 o’clock, doors
open 2.3o—Matinee Prices, Adults, Is; Children, Cd.
FRED. 23. IN" ORTON,
General Theatrical and Amusement Agent.
H ®“ es > Garden Parties, Fetes, Coming of Age,
riiendly Societies, Demonstrations, provided with
every description of Talent from £5 to £5OO.
ELOCUTION, DRAMATIC ART, STAGE TUITION.
Pupils received. Private or Public Lessons.
Twenty-four years Experience as Actor, Manager, and
Pro] r.etor, graduating in the famous Princes Theatre
(Manchester) School, 1867.
Office Hours — lo.3o until 5 oclock.
7 Victoria Chambers,
CASTLKREAGH and ELIZABETH STREETS,
SYDNtY.
Third Floor. Take the Elevator.
JJONDI AQUARIUM
Lessee and Manager ALFRED WYBURD,
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS of AUSTRALIA.
The Famous Switchback Railway.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Admission. Is. j Children, Cd. Trama to Gate - Fare. 4d.
■VTOTICE.— Advertisements for Current Week
TUESDAY >e rm ' ived LATKft than 1 p.m. on
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N and lamb.
FURNITURE and pianoforte
« WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
, AND
bedding manufacturers.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY;
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS.
ill
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order in
any mater al.
PTANOFORTES, by R. LTPP and SOHN,
L. NEUI ELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
B
AGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
BEDROOM SUITES, complete, in various
. "Pods, and very handsome designs, with
l leet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEW TON LAMB;
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Wardrobe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door ; Washstand, with marble
top and tde back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
O Connell and Spring Streets.
jt
CANVAS FOLDING
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb,
DIIN ING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, stronodv
made, £3 10s. J
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
r FURNITURE, CENTRE and
JLi SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, 6xB,
6 n ,; ,£ x8 ’ 95,; 9 x8 > 9s - 6d -i 10x8, 10s. 6d.:
12x 8,12 s. 6d.; 12 x 10, 15s. Newton & Lamb,
1 urmture Warehousemen, Spring and O’Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
Self-adjusting chair and couch
_for Invalids and Medical Men.
T> OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
J t restful-a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
drt6
CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY,
NEWTON & LAMB.
udr
0 ANY AS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Pkice Very Low,
NEWTON and LA M B
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring a nd O'Connell Streets.
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. Gd., 195., 255., 325. Gd.
Newton and Lamb.
V
ERANDAH CHAIRS.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGE
S.
Rattan verandah lounges, from
155.; and large variety of Chairs,’ from
10s. Gd.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring ami
O’Connell Streets.
EWT O N AN I ) LAM B.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
- warehousemen,
cabinetmakers, upholsterers
, , AND
bedding manufacturers.
i Show Rooms and Manufactory-
SPRTNCI and O’CONNELL STREETS.


Rose’s Lime Juice Cordial.
(:)
Recommended by the Lancet and the Medical Faculty as
the best drink at all times. Invaluable in warm weather.
Insist on getting the genuine brand— “ ROSli’S.”
Wholesale Agents:
inwnxrißS & co.,
u €ASTLEKEAGH STREET, SYRNET.
.A.. W. STEEL,
16 HANOVER STREET, FITZROY.
How’s This for High?
CARBINE! CORREZE! PARIS !
Such was the SYDNEY WIRE of
COMMON SENSE
(Alias Mr. W. A. STEEL, the well-known ARISTO-
CRATIC TOUT), who also sent out
HIGHBORN! HIGHBORN! HIGHBORN!
to ALL his SUBSCRIBERS, and to EVERYONE in his
Monday morning’s wires also.
AFTER this, and coining AFTER his recent V.R.G.
Tips, WHAT need to ask WHO IS NOW the CHAMPION
Tipster of Australia ?
ANNUAL SUBSCRIBERS of £5 ss. receive all such
information as the above WEEKS before the events take
place, as Mr. S. points them out in his WEEKLY
LETTERS to SUBSCRIBERS, hence it is much to the
advantage of sportsmen TO JOIN HIS SUBSCRIPTION
LIST.
Terms now reduced to 10s. for a wire ANY race-day,
with REALLY RELIABLE SELECTIONS, sent out by
11 o’clock on the morning of the race to ANY address or
to the grand stand ; or, THE INFORMATION may be
had each morning by calling at address at foot.
Mr. S. varies very much from all other tipsters, inas-
much as he NEVER gives more than ONE horse in a race.
Mr. Steel advises THIS W’EEK over :
EPSOM RACES, SATURDAY, 18th inst.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MEETING on 18th inst.
Some REAL GOOD THINGS for all the above
meetings. Send at once or CALL.
Send for Mr. S.’s circular, wherein he demonstrates by
COMMON SENSE WHY he MUST be in a better position
than ANY OTHER Turf Adviser to impart REALLY re-
liable information.
A. delaide O n p.
A “DEAD SNIP,” only 10s.
Send immediately, well worth backing AT ONCE. This
information has been obtained only at the greatest expense
and trouble.
Address, with remittances —
A. W. STEEL,
16 HANOVER STREET, FITZROY,
MELBOURNE.
Government
m
Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 13th, 1891.
1 LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29.
Bridge, Quirindi Creek, Road Quirindi to Walla-
badah
Bridge over Burringbar Creek, Road Brunswick
to the Tweed
Bridge; Minamurra River, Road Shellharbour to
Kiama. Cont. No. 2, Erection (fresh
tenders)
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Euabalong
Construction of Wooden Hull for Steamer for
Sydney Harbour
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Wee Waa
Additions, &c., Police Station, Gundagai
Roadway, &c., Coast Hospital, Little Bay
Repair's, &c., Murrumburrah Police Station
Repairs, Courthouse, Parramatta _
Conversion of s.s. Hector into a Lighter
Erection of Cottages for Maintenance Men,
Sydney Water Supply
Additions, &c., Police Buildings, Deepwater
Repairs, &c., Public Instruction Office
Construction of Stormwater Channel, Iron Cove
Creek, Croydon
Additions, &c., Stable, Fencing, &c., Lockup,
Bourke
Fire Service, Benevolent Asylums, Macquarie
and George-streets, Parramatta
Construction Of Wooden Punt, for Grab Dredge,
Sydney
Wharf, &c., at Long Reach, Macleay River
Cottage at Chatsworth, North Shore Water
Supply (fresh tenders)
Water Tanks, &c., Coast Hospital, Little Bay
Contract No. 73 Sydney Sewerage, Supply of
Ironwork
Conveyance, &c., of Pipes from Wharf at Sydney
to Pipe-line between Potts Hill and Crown-
street
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13.
Bridge, Saltwater Creek, road Eden to Pambula
Bridge, Emigrant Creek, at Tintenbar
Culvert over Warroo Creek, road Yass to Cor-
rad igbee
Repairs, Courthouse, Quirindi
Additions, Lockup Gaol, at Silverton
Erection of Bridge at Wilearegang over Back-
water, road Tintaldra to T ouw
Supply of Launch in steam at Grafton Ferry,
Clarence River. (Designs, &c., to be sub-
mitted)
Bridge, Mrrtin’s Gully, Main North-road
Repairs Post and Telegraph Office, Gunning (fresh
tenders)
Construction of Timber Punt for.Larg’s Ferry,
Hunter River
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Warri
Repairs, &c., Sydney Mint
Election of Fire Brigade Station, George-street,
North
Repairs, &c., Walgett Gaol (fresh tenders)
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27.
Low Level Bridge over Yellow Creek, on road
Ten ter field
Footbridge, Allyn River, at Allynbrook to
Lawrence.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 24.
Supply of 175,000 tons of Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales (offers may be
sent to the Agent-General, London, up to this
date)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 8.
Construction of further length (23|m.) towards
Mullumbunby, Lismore-Tweed Railway.
(Plans to be seen after April 13.)
Bridge, Lane Cove River. Contract No. 1 -
Supply of Materials. Contract No. 2—Erec-
tion. (Alternative tenders for Contracts Nos.
1 and 2 combined may be submitted.)
WEDNESDAY, JULY 15.
Construction of Railway fiom Molong to Parkes
and Forbes, in two sections. (Plans to be
Aeibn after April 30, 1891.)
, : WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 19.
Supply of Pipes, special castings, &c., Cootamundra
Water Supply
BRUCE SMITH.
THE WATERURY WATCHES are so cheap
that anybody can afford to own one. Aj
watch, however, to be cheap, must be serviceable
it must be both accurate and reliable, and in al s
other ways peform tire functions of a tirst-clas
timekeeper. In these particulars the wonderfu,
Waterbury Watches exactly “fill the bill.’
Therefore, because cheap, do not think they are
only toys or “ good enough for children.” They
have all the traits of the best makes, and as they
add to these unusual strength and durability,
besides cheapness, they are essentially the
watches for the mechanic, the fanner, the clerk,
the working man and woman - in a word — The
Watches fqr the People.
Series E, the old long-winding favourite, the
Schoolboy’s Delight, the Workman’s Mate,
the Shepherd’s Boon Companion. Price,
13s 6d.
Series J, the new short-winding marvel, is the
Reporter’s Eriend, the Parson’s Guide, the
Lawyer’s Reference, the Banker’s Security,
the Sailor’s Anchor, the Soldier’s Ally, the
Civil Servant’s Counsellor, the Farmer’s
Faith, tlie Squatter’s Joy, the Editor’s
Dream, and Everybody’s Success. Price,
22s (id.
Series L, the new Ladies’ Waterbury, is the
Mother’s Treasure, the Housemaid's Help,
the Lover’s Warning, the Nurse’s Necessity,
the Schoolgirl’s Idol, the Maiden’s Prayer,
and a wonder of horological ingenuity.
Short winding, stem-setting ; price, 22s 6d.
These world-famed watches may be obtained
from any leading storekeeper or dealer through-
out the colony.
COLGATE’S
Soaps
Perfumes
REPUBLIOUE
FRANCAIS
COLGATE
GOLD MEDAL,
PARIS, 1889.
DR. SCOTT'S Electric Hair Brushes will
positively CURE Nervous Headache or
Neuralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary everyday use they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dan-
druff, and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles —not wires, _ which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
.
To be obtained from T. W. Johnston & Co.,
Washington 11. Soul & Co., and all chemists
and storekeepers, or from the
Pall Mall Electric Association*
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
[?]
846 Maoquarie-street North, Sydney, April 15,1891.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
Sydney sassiety - loyal enough to go about shoeless if
vice-royalty only set the example —is now whispering over
its tea-tray that the little Jerseys (who, after all, are “ no
more than schoolgirls, my dear”) are being drafted into
society at a very unconventional period indeed. Races,
banquets, and balls are all adorned by the presence of the
two eldest children, still in short frocks, and there is
likely to be a strike' in various fashionable nurseries
where the budding belles are kept chained up until dear
Gertrude goes off. Whether Lady Jersey turns her hope-
fuls loose in this reckless way because she wishes to give
them a sort of sugar-coated object-lesson on the Horrors
of Bad Breeding, or whether she thinks local matrons
don’t know a debutante when they see her, deponent is
unaware—anyway, there are the young ladies bowing in
their mother's ball-room while society has a vague sense
that its powerful opinion is being flouted. But this isn’t
how' society ought to feel about it by several chalks.
What higher mark of confidence could Lady Jersey pay
the cotton-backed duchesses and gay and festive men-
about-towm who constitute the local Llue-blood than to
let her girls listen to the vapid little cackle of the one and
waltz in the arms of the other?
But while on the subject, I really think that, consider-
ing how badly the Australian girl w'ears, the age
of the average debutante—eighteen or nineteen-
ought to be lessened and Ermyntrude allowed to figure
on ball-programmes at sixteen or seventeen. Even as a
schoolgirl the Australienne has often a weary, dragged
expression, and if you keep her under lock and key when
she is in the morning of her charms (if she has any), you
leave her only one or two years of, conquering kittenish-
ness. For when the rubicon of twenty is passed the
antipodean damsel is a woman, powder, paint, and all.
What do you think of the new society walk ? My
theory is that it is a natural consequence of the New.
market coat and the mannish plain skirt, but, above all,
the fault of that double-breasted jacket. The idea is to
stride as far as you can with each-ahem—ankle, at the
same time slightly raising your shoulders and giving a
bad imitation of the masculine shoulder-swagger to be
observed in all its full beauty in the athletic young man
Your pace, too, must be a cracker. If you want an exact
model of the sideview of the fashionable gait just at
present, take a pair of wide-open scissors and straddle
them violently up and down the table, and then you have
it. Apropos to deportment-is it because a leading
member of the vice-regal staff has a pronounced Grecian
bend that the Sydney dude is circulating round with a
kink in his spine ?
Sydney Ladies’ Sanitary Club met at the Town Hall on
10th inst. with Lady Jersey in th 6 chair, and, of course, a
crowd of members present. It was a lovely sight to see
how, while worshipping at the footstool of Hygeia, they
wore corsets that seemed to be rather worse than a com-
fortable fit. Lady Jersey showed her contempt for the
law of chromatics by appearing in a mauve and violet
frock, blue gloves, and a canary-coloured bonnet, and
opened the meeting in a small, nervous voice, after which
a medico, who seemed to appear under protest, gabbled
through a paper on “Colds,” and then a rush was made
for another room, where the same gentleman held up and
expatiated upon a collection of curry-coloured hygienic
undergear of the most confidential cut, at which your
Sappho blushed up to the roots of her hair and fled pre-
cipitately.
Lady Jersey talks very nicely, but as an orator she’s not
a little tiny patch on Lady Hamilton, Governoress of
Tasmania, who ripples along in a silvery voice without a
gasp or a pause, except at commas and so on. It would
be a pleasure to hear Lady H. giving out her views even
on Imperial Federation or the Moral Aspect of Freetrade.
The second vice-regal hop on 10th inst. was more
successful than the first since fewer guests were bidden)
and the evening was quite fine. The halls of dazzling
light were conventionally decorated by a Sydney florist,
and the electric-light shone brightly everywhere, turning
the pink make-up on many a blushing cheek to a soft
faint mauve. The ball opened with a set of Lancers.
Lord J. danced with Lady Mar .in in soft black silk and
lace, the front cut square and filled in with soft white
fluted mull, diamond ornaments; Lady J., in ciel-blue
armure en traine festooned with flowers which didn’t
exactly match the gown, diamond ornaments and huge
bouquet, graced the dance with Sir George Innes; Lady
Margaret Villiers in pale-grey chiffon had Captain Davis
for a partner ; the other vice-regal daughter in pale fox-
glove pink danced with Mr. Haggard. Mrs. Rupert
Carington, who also took part in the opening dance, wore
a Letty Lind dress of soft grey chiffon over shrimp-pink
silk, diamond ornaments.
“ Why does her husband allow it V” said a woman sitting
next me in a Sydney dress-circle the other evening, look-
ing across at a matron whose decollete was rather
astonishing—“ I thought he was a rabid prude over bare
shoulders.” But to me, the bare-back show of the woman
who is always clothed severely to her ear-lobes when
Augustus is along didn't call for the least surprise.
For once, when I had a tedious wait in a theatre cloak-
room, I gathered how matrons arrange a regular meta-
morphosis in the garments they leave home in. The lady
who introduced me to the trick had a rich, black-beaded
gown, with a deep yoke fore and aft of passementerie, afl
very nice, and according to the lord and master’s ukase,
I have no doubt; but guess my surprise when, in a
twinkle, she unhooked that yoke fore and aft, and tucked
it where the cotton wool usually goes, and stood revealed
in a shrieking see-more jacket! From her fan she took a
cluster of red roses and pinned them in a festive position,
and then, with a final flourish of the powder-pad, she
sailed forth to conquer. What would happen if hubby
chanced to stroll in front on some of these occasions is
quite beyond the conjecture of yours truly.
On the doleful occasion of the popular Mr. Walshe’s
crowded farewell benefit, in Sydney New Masonic Hall,
the trebly-encored beneficiary was miles ahead of his
field as a vocalist. Of the lady soloists, Signora Fabris was
dramatic in “Pace miodio;” Mrs. Vanderveer Greene—the
best-dressed woman on the stage in her tulle and sequins
and saffron roses-contributed two numbers in splendi
voice; Miss Colbourne-Baber sang “Bel Raggio veiy
daintily in Italian style, and Mrs. Riley was best in her
encore “Speed On.” The instrumentalists were Miss
Lottie Hyam and Mr. Alpress (in conjunction) and
Kowalski, none of whom would respond to the double and
treble encores which followed their efforts, though
Kowalski had to bow three times after his “ Maltha
paraphrase. The vanishing tenor goes abroad to put a
final flourish on his top 0.
I want to point my finger at some of the male soloists
at the aforesaid benefit who, in more than one instance,
made their bob and marched off the platform even while
the accompanist was still scrambling through the
harmonious finishing-off. Vocalists should remember
that the man at the piano holds their fate in the hollow
of his hand, as it were, and that a sympathetic accom-
panist deserves a lot of consideration. How different
they- looked from the more gracefully-mannered songsters
who did not take any notice of the applause until the
final chord was struck !
Apropos to farewells, a friend of mine who attended a
Sims Reeves farewell ere she left England twenty years
ago, took a trip ’Ome the other day, and the first concert
she attended was another Sims Reeves farewell! If she
goes back a hundred years hence she may strike against
the same placard—unless the veteran tenor be then con-
sidered rusty enough for an Australian tour.
Rather a fortuitous circumstance in connection with
the late military holocaust at Middle Head was that the
unfortunate Lieutenant Bedford insured his life for a
considerable sum before going into camp. It was all
owing to a cast-iron agent who would not take No. “ I
have no money to buy a policy,” said the doomed man.
“Raise it,” said the agent, and the result was that a
valuable horse was sold and the insurance completed.
The sequel of Widow O’Brien, “ Bridget O’Brien, Esq.,”
at the Garrick, shows the former loveable eccentricity in
several new and raging garments, and a fete-dress of plum
velvet, cream brocade and crystal trimmings, with Paris
bonnet of mauve feathers and gloves en suite. The cos-
tumes are fresh and good and pretty. Grade Whiteford
(by the way, why does she talk like the Olive Berkley
Fauntleroy?) wears a perfect “Fiddle and I” suit —all
brown velvet and frizzed hair—and I saw by the gloating
eyes cf a matron with a small boy brat that he would
hurtle forth to the next juvenile costume ball clothed in
similar robes. There was a good circle the other night,
and a decollete female in a melon-pink empire skirt and
sleeves (she really hadn’t any bodice) whiled away the
fleeting minutes between the “ax” by powdering herself
all over arms, face, and buzzuin with a powder-pad the
size of a boxing-glove.
I have before me at present (though I really do not
deserve it) a strange, awful composition yclept “Under
the Southern Cross,” by “ Vaga.” It is called a serenade,
though the midnight vocalist who would spoil his adored’s
beauty-sleep by singing “ What are the old countries’
fights to you and me ?” would merit all the hull-dogs and
cold douches meted out to him in the comic papers. The
spiric of the thing is Australian-national to the last dot.
Nevertheless, it is “ dedicated to the Countess of Jersey.”
In the “My Jack” revival at Her Majesty’s, Watts
Phillips dresses Dorothy Prescott quietly, and has im.
proved her stage appearance by putting on a little more
colour; and Mrs. Rignold, as Mrs. Prescott, wears a soft
grey and white gown in the last act, which accords well
with her silver hair. A novel feature in the d.c. on
Saturday, was a pretty Japanese lady dressed a VAnglaise,
which means all the colours of the rainbow, and corsets .
but she wore her rounded olive arms and hands ungloved >
and although garbed in blue and red and pink all at once,
the effect was not vulgar—only Oriental. She did make
a pretty picture.
On dit that a recent presentation by all the lost souls
attached to a big Sydney newspaper to a member, of the
firm who was about to marry was done in an extra-dark
way and was evidently a long-drawn-out torture to the
“ happy ” recipient, who looked all the while as if he
were being tried for manslaughter. The presiding
Patriarch was all to blame, opening his epithalamium:
“ Dear friends, some people say that our birth is the most
important event of our lives; others again yield that
place to Death, but to my idea marriage is far the most
serious of the three.”
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
A queer mixture of society and wharf sightseer as-
sembled at Circular Quay on 11th inst. to see Mrs. Burde-
kin and other friends off by the Orotava, and several
launches hung about in readiness to follow the steamer to
the Heads. Innumerable floral compliments were paid to
the pretty ex-Mayoress, while much popping of corks in
the saloon and cheering was deemed a suitable send-off
for the ex-Mayor. While in England Mr. and Mrs. Bur-
dekin will make a short stay with Lord and Lady
Carington.
r lhe marriage of Mr. Geoffrey E. Fairfax, second son of
Mr. James Fairfax, of the Sydney Morning Herald, to
Miss Hixson, eldest daughter of Captain Hixson, R.N.,
took place on 7th inst. at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, Sydney,
which was florally decorated for the occasion. The bridal
garments were of white armure royale over a jupe of white
satin brocaded, with lillies of the valley, sleeves of puffed
white chiffon, the long tulle veil held by a -diamond star,
hive white bonnet. The bridesmaids were in ,white Ben-
saline and chiffon, with white hat and feathers and posies
of chrysanthemum-autumn leaves. The bride’s going-
away gown was of grey tweed. Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey
Fairfax left for Europe by the Orotava on 11th inst.
During the race week, Mrs. Bland Holt gave several
ladies’ luncheon parties at her hotel—the last one happen-
ing on 10th inst. A compact number sat down to the
table (artistically decorated with pink and white cosmea
and ferns) and a most enjoyable morning was spent.
Mrs. Bland Holt (who made a tireless hostess) wore a pale
mushroom gown with vest and rekvements of brown silk.
The Minerva Dramatic Society tendered a farewell per-
formance to Mrs. L. D. Hage, prior to her departure for
Rockhampton, at “ Oak wood,” Forest Lodge, the resi-
dence of Mrs. Dwyer, on 7th inst. “Shipmates” was
played by the society in the theatre attached to the
house, after which the company adjourned to the local
Town Hall, where dancing was kept up till a late hour.
“ Shipmates” is a thin play, but amateurs too often pro-
voke unfavourable comparison by the selection of high-
class and popular works. However, the performance all
round was finished and intelligent, and Mrs. Hage, Miss
May Dawson, Messrs. J. Davis and E. J. Redman gave
evidence of the possession of more than ordinary abi ity.
Among recent weddings are those of Miss Hope Lake,
step-daughter of Mr. W. H. Paling, to Captain Proctor,
of Torquay, Devon, and Miss Ida Mann, of North Shore,
to Mr. Lungley, of Adelaide.
THE GREAT REMEDY FOR PAIN.
ST. JACOBS OIL.
WHAT IT IS.
SIX STANDARD VIRTUES.
Ist, It is in one word a cure ; it is not merely
a relief, and in no sense a cure-all; it is the pro-
duct of scientific research.
2nd. It strengthens while it soothes and sub-
dues, heals, and cures ; it literally conquers pain.
3rd. Its effects are curative and permanent to
the whole group of muscular miseries and nervous
agonies.
4th. It does not merely irritate the outer sur-
face, nor does it merely soften or relax a con-
stricted muscle. To its specific action-a superior
curative virtue is superadded.
sth. It penetrates deeply but gently ; search-
ingly and surely seeking the pain spot in an effort
to conquer.
Gth. Each constituent of the formula has a
recognised intrinsic virtue to serve most surely
the cure of pain.
For rheumatism, neuralgia, sprains, bruisesi
stiff joints, swellings, and similar ailments, St-
Jacobs Oil has positively no equal if used accord"
ing to the directions which accompany each bottle-
Aches and pains succumb in a truly marvellous
manner to the potent influence of this world-
famed remedy. Thousands of testimonials have
from time to time been published in the Australian
press—testimonials from all ranks and conditions
of men—from statesmen, judges, eminent divines,
barristers, the medical profession, merchants,
athletes, &c., and though a large standing reward
has been offered to any one who could produce
proof that any one of these was not strictly
genuine, none have dared to question their authen-
ticity. Under these circumstances is it to be
wondered at that the sale of St. Jacobs Oil greatly
exceeds the combined sales of all other advertised
lotions, liniments, embrocations, &c., in the world ?
No home can afford to be without a bottle of it
always handy, and purchasers would do well to
observe that they get the genuine article and not
one of the many spurious preparations made up to
trade upon the enormous reputation which St.
Jacobs Oil has built up for itself upon the solid
foundation of merit.


Try Colemane and Son’s Eucalypte
Lozenges and Honey.
A fair beautiful skin.—Sulpholine Soap
gives the natural tint and peach-like bloom of a
perfect complexion ; makes the skin smooth,
supple, healthy, comfortable. 6d. tablets. Every-
where.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Cup Blend, a delicious tea,
SUICIDE OR NO SUICIDE.
The New York Life Insurance Company
Fays Its Policy.
It being evident that most cases of self-destruc-
tion involve causes not under the victim’s own
control, and that accident and murder may easily
give rise to a suspicion of voluntary death, the
New York Life Insurance Company, in order to
prevent wrongs to the unfortunate, makes its
policies absolute security. It exercises caution in
granting a policy, and never issues one unless its
officers consider the applicant a good risk. But
when it has once issued its policy and taken the
premium, it feels bound to insure. It does not
insert in its policies the usual clause making them
void in case of “self-destruction, voluntarily or
involuntarily, sane or insane,” and claims no re-
lease from its contract except where there is
evidence of a purpose to defraud. In short, so
far as a life policy may pi-operly be such, the New
York Life’s policies are incontestable from the
moment the first premium is paid. The man with a
New York Life Insurance policy may feel sure that,
incase of his death, no delay, litigation or loss will
arise from the question of self-destruction —
whether it be accidental or otherwise. If he has
been honestly insured, and honestly conforms to
the simple requirements of the contract, the pay-
ment of his' policy is sure on proof of his death.
Chief offices, department of Australasia, corner o'
George and Bond streets, Sydney.
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
“ I will GIVE A BOTTLE of my Remedy for Nothing,
so that sufferers may have an opportunity of testing
the truth of what I fearlessly state.”
Thousands of Bottles of this Marvellous Medicine
GIVEN A IVA V every 1 'ear.
I have made a life-long study of the disease of Fits,
Epilepsy, or Falling Sickness, and when I say Core, I
do not mean merely to stop them for a time and then
have them return again, I mean a Radical Cure. I
have known my remedy to cure the worst cases. Because
others have failed to cure you is no reason why you
should continue to suffer. Send at once for ray Treatise
and a Free Bottle of medicine. It costs you nothing
for a trial and IT WILL CURE !
Dr. H.G. R00T,28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston-rd.,
LONDON. N.W
£lOO,OOO
CAPITAL:
£lOO,OOO
HEAD OFFICE :
MERCANTILE MUTUAL CHAMBERS, 118 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
tub::e .A-TTSTia-A-iii-A-ißr
ACCIDENT INSURANCE A GUARANTEE COY., Limited.
Victorian Branch: 323 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
This Company is prepared to receive proposals for all classes of Accident Insurance ; also, under
the Employer’s Liability Act, Public Risk, Workmen’s Insurance and Common Law.
H. GRAYSON CROSSLEY, General Manager.
A Hint to Hairdressers.
pT) \T P P T \ T U 1 \T are the people to send to for your Requisites. They are in
VjJIALVJ Co a LIJV ljiN the Trade themselves, and know where and what to buy.
STOCK
THEY HAVE -A GRAND
—OF—
HAIRDRESSING CHAIRS (American and Ordinary), MIRRORS. HOTWATER URNS,
SHAMPOOING BASINS, TAPS, TANKS and APPARATUS, BARBERS’ POLES,
CUTTING CLOTHS, APRONS, STROPS, RAZORS, SCISSORS, BRUSHES, &c.
In fact, everything connected with the Trade.
SEND for a SAMPLE of our SHAVING SOAP—the Finest in the World for Hairdressers.
Saloons Thoroughly Fitted Out. CASH or TERMS.
Send for Price List to their ONLY ADDRESS—
CRAIG <sc AITKEN, 680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
161 Clarence-st., Sydney, & at Melbourne & Brisbane,
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OP THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &c.
ENGINEERS
- -
General Machinery Merchants.
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EPSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., &c.
Jtaqqa^
m
W
,
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEYANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
4ND EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS.
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
&c., &c.
STEAM ENGlNES— Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined, from two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from twn rr •, •
Fee , d w ie M M -, E * MNE . E » S ' MACHINE TOOLS including Turning‘Lathes, Radial and ottelSfg Eh So“S MaehiS S
FATRBANK S Scales and Weighbridges. _ Denison s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease! Belting, **Emery Whee£
Sight Feed Lubricators. Pickering Engine Governors.
Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
7
Commercial Depression.
Dear Bulletin,-— After carefully reading the article
headed “ Commercial Depression ” which appears in The
Bulletin, March 7, 1891, in my opinion it can only be
summarised thus: All capitalists are a nuisance to
society. All employers of labour should be hanged. To
my mind, a more grotesque absurdity could hardly be
imagined, if there is such a thing in this world. The
Bulletin, might reply with its usual outspokenness, “ we
write articles, but we do not find brains to read them.”
These remarks would not apply in the present case, as the
following illustration will show. Supposing a digger who
has been working - on a gold-field for a number of years
bad accumulated sufficient capital to allow of him going
out prospecting. After several years he discovers pay-
able gold, and at the conclusion of his operations he
becomes the owner of £lO,OOO. He now becomes a
nuisance to society because he is a capitalist. With the
£lO,OOO he starts business as a manufacturer. Therefore,
as an employer of labour, he ought to be hanged. A few
weeks ag - o a deputation waited upon Sir S. W. Griffith
when it was shown that 1000 men were out of employment
in Brisbane. These unemployed men, like The Bulletin,
denounced all capital, and according to speeches
and manifestoes, are, trying to crush capita), and
drive it out of the country. A strange comment upon
the intelligence of the working-classes in this age of
progress. Again, the article states a person cannot culti-
vate the soil or enter into manufacturing pursuits because
he has to pay rent. If this position holds good in
England and other parts of the world, it certainly is not
the case in Queensland. If a man is inclined to settle on
the land he can do so by getting 150 acres orf payment
of the survey-fee, while a manufacturer could purchase
a piece of land just outside Brisbane for a few pounds,
where he could erect a factory large enough to last to
meet all requirements for the next 100 years. Again,
under that prince of humbugs’ system, Henry George,
the people would have to pay rent to the State instead
of paying it to private ownership. So that according to
the writer’s own showing, neither agriculture nor manu-
facturing industries could be carried out at all unless the
person interested could acquire land rent free. Surely
there is something wrong in a statement of this kind.
Take my own case. lam a manufacturer in a small way,
rent free, residing in one of the best business centres of
Brisbane, and yet I am only getting a bare existence.
And my case is the same with others nearly all over the
to ony. Does this show that in order to become prosper-
ous in business it is only necessary to be rent free ? The
cause of this state of affairs will be seen in the following—
(1.) A rotten system of Government, backed up
by men with no principle, whose main object is to grab
£3OO a year. 2. Borrowed money, for building political
railways and giving work to the unemployed, which show
a dead loss of £500,000 a year, which hangs like millstones
rou id the necks of labour right throughout the colony.
3. The curse of Freetrade, which, instead of giving the
work and wages to the people of this colony, is sent out
of the colony and divided amongst the workmen of
foreign lands, which leaves the people of Queensland
without the means of subsistence. If The Bulletin
would only use its wonderful power and try and destroy
the above evils, I feel sure that it would gain the grati-
tude of the vast majority of thinking people in Queens-
land.—Yours respectfully, A. Ockelford. ' Brisbane.
* * *
In reply to the above eloquent letter, The
Bulletin has only to say that it cheerfully accepts
the dilemma upon which the writer impales it in
his opening paragraph—the individual capitalist
is a nuisance. And as The Bulletin has asserted
this fact in the plainest language and the largest
type for a good many years, it feels but little
flattered that even one of its readers should have
been so long in discovering its meaning. The
individual capitalist is a nuisance and a curse, and
the natural order of things is Co-operation, not
Capitalism. It is no more a part of the scheme
of Creation that one man should work for another
than that one man should belong to another. The
existing system began with the invention of per-
sonal slavery, and the first man who gave up his
independence to toil for another man’s profit was
the serf, who bought and sold and bar-
tered and exchanged like a mere beast of
burden. Any system by which the labourer has to
surrender half or three-fourths of the produce of
his labour in order to pay for the privilege of re-
ceiving the remainder is a glaring absurdity, and
but for the petrifying influence of countless ages
of habit and precedent it could not endure for a
single day. The capitalist who runs this system
is a slave-holder and a dealer in the bodies and
souls of his fellow-men as truly as ever was the
planter of Virginia or the feudal noble of the
Middle Ages. His accumulated wealth —that
which he invests and lives upon without personal
toil or exertion —is not merely money, for money
is only valuable as a representation of wealth ;
it consists of land which he does not require for
his own occupation, but which he holds so that
other men must pay him for standing room on the
earth which God made, and in human beings who
are denied the right to live except at his pleasure
and on his conditions. The earth, the air, and the
sea were given for the equal use of all mankind,
and the capitalist who denies to another man the
use of the earth might as reasonably charge him
for the use of the atmosphere and supply him with
breath through a meter at so much the thousand
cubic feet. And as the whole modern system of
Capital depends, directly or indirectly, on the
great land monopoly, the capitalist is a nuisance,
a usurper, and a curse.
•Jt* •Ji'
Another clause of our correspondent’s letter is
worthy of attention. He says
Supposing a digger, who has been working on a gold-
field for a number of years, had accumulated sufficient
capital to allow of him going out prospecting. After
several years he discovers payable gold, and at the con-
clusion of his operations he becomes the owner of ±IO,COO.
He now becomes a nuisance to society because he is a
capitalist.
We reply briefly that he does. He is a nuisance
through the working of a nefarious system wh'ch
allows him very little chance of being anything
but a nuisance, and even if he wishes to be any-
thing else, it is his misfortune that cno man
cannot abolish the existing system of slaveiy, any
more than one man could abolish the old system
of personal serfdom. In the first place, it is
almost an impossibility that he should have
acquired £lO,OOO by his own unaided exertions.
He must have been in a position, as capitalist or
monopolist, to levy embargo on other mens
toil in order to become possessed of such
a sum. Then, if he invests his money in
the purchase of land he proceeds to monopoli e
the earth, which no man has any right to buy or
sell, and lie helps to deprive coming generations
of their birth light, even as he was deprived of his
birthright by the generation which went before
him. If he invests his capital in a bank or a
building society, he lives partly by land-stealing
and par tly by usury. If Ire spculates in Govern-
ment bonds, he assists in a plan by which men
make unjust wars and fill the earth with misery,
or else build public works at ruinous prices, rtr
order to assist in land swindles and booms and all
manner of public frauds, and beggar posterity to
pay the bill. He is part of a great plan which is
rotten rh every part, and while it endures he is a
nuisance ; and, therefore, The Bulletin has con-
sistently denounced the whole scheme on which
modern society is constructed, and has preached
Socialism as the one available remedy for an evil
which is otherwise incurable.-
# # *
Our correspondent then follows Ins digger a step
further :
With the £lO,OOO he starts business as a manufacturer.
Therefore, as an employer of labour, he ought to be
hanged.
In other words, he has already acquired far more
than his fair share of the world’s wealth, and he
still wants more. His good fortune having placed
it in his power to take advaxAage of other men’s
necessities, by confiscating a certain proportion of
the produce of their labour, he proceeds—being
already rich —to make himself richer and to make
other men poorer, and because he does this he
claims to be a benefactor of his species. He
“affords employment,” which is an inverted way
of expressing the fact that other men are com-
pelled to afford him a certain percentage of their
wealth, and if he fails to make money despite
these advantages it is because he has to compete
with other cormorants, some of them larger and
more rapacious than himself, whereupon his failure
is set down to the wickedness and general infamy
of Labour. But still The Bulletin does not say
that this particular capitalist ought to be hanged.
What it did and does assert is that the entire
army of capitalists, land-holders, and usurers have
established a system whereby the man without
capital is dependent for existence on his employer ;
that this army, having, for its own purposes,
monopolised all the sources of wealth, is morally
bound to find employment for the whole human
race as the only excuse for its own existence and
for the privileges which it enjoys; and that for
every man who dies of hunger in all the cities of
the earth some monopolist ought to be hanged—
so long as murder is regarded as a capital offence
—if only the right monopolist could be found.
Recognising, however, that among so much vicari-
ous responsibility the ri[>ht monopolist seldom
can be found, it does not propose to hang any-
body ; but still it cannot suppose that the God
whom the pious capitalist worships sends any
human being into this world without providingsorne
means for his sustenance, and when those means
are not there when he arrives, it presumes that
some one stole them, and, having thus doomed a
fellow-being to death by slow starvation, became,
from a moral standpoint, a homicide. And if this
theory be not correct, then God has badly botched
His universe, and Providence is a failure.
* * #
Our correspondent further complains that
according to the system of “ that prince of hum-
bugs, Henry George,” every man will pay rent to
the State, and therefore things will stand very
much where they are. To this it is hardly worth
replying. Under the system of the future men
will pay rent to the State only ; whereas now they
pay to the State and the municipality and the
“divisional board ” or the “shire council” under
the name of taxes, and to the landlord under the
name of rent; and the difference between these
two situations is plain to the meanest compre-
hension. Under the new rtc/ime, too, the purpose
of labour will be to support the labourer and not to
enrich the capitalist, and all work will be on the
co-operative principle ; so that when there is not
enough employment to go round, the hours of toil
will be reduced, instead of a certain number of
men continuing to work and the remainder being
consigned to misery and starvation. Then
charity and benevolence will be abolished, for a
system of universal insurance will make provision
for everybody in old age—not by any policy of
loud-mouthed philanthropy, but because it is as
much the duty of the State to abolish the disease
of poverty as it is to wipe out the disease of
drunkenness or homicide; and the mere acquisi-
tion and hoarding of money will be no moie a
virtue than the acquisition of one's fellow-
creatures in avowed slavery. And till that time
comes the capitalist will continue to be a
“ nuisance,” and the individual who, like our
correspondent, is “a manufacturer in a small
way,” or in any other way, will continue to write
letters in defence of the system under which he
tries to prosper and generally does prosper; and
the man who is filled with a good dinner will
refuse to believe in the existence of hunger, and
this world will continue to be the best of all
possible worlds—for the dog that is uppermost.


Xa.x Use 100 Years
THE TOOK MAN'S FRIEND.
DR. ROBERTS’ OINTMENT.
WfWfm
;in
[IN
[IN
[IN
[IN
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
THIS VALUABLE OINTMENT
(as originally prepared by G. L.
ROBERTS, M.D.) is confidently
recommended as an unfailing
remedy for Wounds of every de-
scription, Chilblains, Scorbutic
Eruptions, Burns, Sore and In-
flamed Eyes, Eczema, &o.
Dr. Roberts’ Alterative Pills.
For the BLOOD and SKIN.
rjTjisjjum
SIN DISEASES.
KIN DISEASES.
KIN DISEASES.
KIN DISEASES.
KIN DISEASES.
KIN DISEASES.
Very effectual in the cure of that
form of skin disease which shows
itself in painful cracks in the skin
of the hands and in all scaly
diseases. They may be taken at
all times without confinement or
change of diet.
Sold at Is. IJd., 2s. 9d., 11s. and
225. each, by the Proprietors,
Bridport, England. :
BY LETTER*
BY LETTER,
ult Free— Herr Rassmussen
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist and
n cittn PRIVATE & NERVOUS DISEASES*
the 3ST
ID O CT OR
DULY QUALIFIED BOTANIST
And Discoverer and Proprietor of the Famous and World-renowned
Celebrated Denmark Vitality Pills,
Which VITALII Y ’
Denmark Vitality Pit's
(REGISTER!®).
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
—A—
Guaranteed Cure
FOR
Kervous Debility*
LOST VITALITY.
o
vs>
er
/o :q\
o ASaTOKEN of gratitude c 1,
X fMMNINEOFHIS PATIENTS tPMi
KJ
**a
Ssnmark Vitality Pills
(registered).
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
Denmark Vitality Pills
—A—
Guaranteed Cure
roK
Kervous Debility*
lost vitality.
Who has received so many THOUSANDS OT ™jmONI ALS from CUM®
who proved on oath before the BABUAMENTABY
that he never used any poisons, and that he had CL R T? postered by the Gover-
had been Riven up as incurable, and whose Photo., Name, and Title are e Remedies,
ment of New South Wales, as his Trade Mark for his Celebrated Herbal itemeaies.
DISCOVERER. and
Of the Purely Herbal and Registered
OR
Celebrated .-. Denmark Vitality Remedies.
Which were the means of curing over 20,000 Sufferers last year-and which are a Guaranteed Cure
for all Private Complaints.
£3?” A Valuable Book sent Free on receipt of a Self-addressed Cd. Stamped Env~ p
All Sufferers using Herr Rassmusseu’s Remedies will get 1 ree Advice by jett.i.
Opinions of the Press.
It is a well-known fact that Hen- Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures
during the past few years, as his numerous testimonials
will prove.— Sydney Bulletin.
Genuine Testimonials.
To Herr Rasmussen.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that
vour remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease,
after many doctors had failed.-JoiiN Reynolds, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen. —We havebeen shown
some excellent testimonials of the great
cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist. Austra-
lian Star.
Herr Rassmussen has now been estab-
lished in the colonies for 10 years.—
Sunday Times, April 28,1558.
Herr Rassmussen has become a cele-
brity in the curing of all diseases of the
nervous system. His name has become
a wonder throughout the Southern Hemi-
sphere. He was presented with a Gold
Medal for some of his miraculous cures.—
Balmain Leader, May 12,1888.
Herr Rassmussen. The remarkable
cures which he has effected are pretty
<>-enerally known. —Balmain Observer,
April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters
from Herr Rassmussen’s cured patients,
requesting us to make known to the
public the wonderful medical skill this
remarkable man possesses, and he has
just been presented with a Gold Medal
from several of his cured patients.—
Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen, the Danish Herba-
list, has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, which he has
received, certifying to a number of im-
Tlic Nervous System.
To Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated
Danish Herbalist.—Dear Benefactor —I
have much pleasure to inform the public
that your remedies cured my wife of an
internal complaint of a very serious
nature after all the doctors had given
her up — Aeciubald Macfarlane, Eden
Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To Herr Rassmussen, Specialist in
Nervous Diseases.—Dear Sir,—l hereby
thank you for the great cure your reme-
dies performed on me for a very compli-
cated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous
Debility.— Thomas Mudiman, Merchant
Tailor, King-street, Newtown.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.
—Dear Sir and Benefa ;tor,—lt gives me
great pleasure to testify to your wonder-
ful skill in the treatment of Disease.
Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up,'
and, although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend your
remedies to all. —Yours, gratefully, R.
Albbry, Gi Washington-street, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Specialist in
Nervous Diseases —Dear Sir,—l hereby
certify that I have been under your
skilful treatment for a very obstinate
case of iicivous debility, and that your
remedies cured me, one course of your
portant cures effected by his remedies.-Sydney Evening
News, March 7,1890.
Vitality Pills being sufficient.— D. M'Neill, Hornsb>
Junction, N.S.W.
\\ / /
DENMARK
%
%
%
%
'f
%
tyjd
L
1 1
'#i e
Wo*
m
r6y
$1
£
r o£
'REGISTER
%
jdr
tyi
A Guaranteed
Cure.
LIST OF
Herr RASSR^USSEN’S
CELEBRATED HERBAL VITALITY REMEDIES
Registered in all the Colonies.
Awarded Gold Medal by Cured Sufferers.
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
Despondency. Melancholy and Errors, Barrenness of both
Sexes. Price—23s. 6d. per course ; small box, 65., posted.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS,
Rest Remedy in the world for Irregularity, Whites, and cures
alt Complaints that cause Barrenness. Price_23s. 6d. per
course ; small box, 65., posted,
LOCK CURE PILLS,
A Guaranteed cure for all Diseases of the Blood, and will
Hmrnmrlilv cure all Discharges, Scaldings, and Contagious
Emet and y Stoctures. Purely herbal, Pnce-235. 6d. per
course ; small box, 65., posted.
DENMARK LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS,
Excellent for Costiveness, Indigestion, Wind and Dyspepsia.
St boxes at is.. 2s. 6d.. and Ss.; posted, 6d. extra per box.
DENMARK SKIN AND HAIR BEAUTIFIED.
A Guaranteed cure for preventing Dandruff, ana the Hair
turning Grey, and eradicates Pimples and Freckles. Price
2s. 6d. per packet ; posted, 3s.
SPECIAL NOTICE*
Alwavs send Post Office Order or Cash in Registered Letter.
' ’ Make Post Office Orders or Cheques payable to
P issmussen Sydney.’ Add Is. for exchange, if Cheques
Send Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address Letters— HEßß RASSMUSSEN,
one G.P.0.. Svdnev.
\\ I /
%
\
%
%
i
•0^
\
k
M]
E
S f
T *
tK
R/
I
I
Mi#
[#
itH.
(#
ft
drty
»
#
#
i
jt
'REG IST 5"
%
%
yj
/
A Guaranteed
Cure.
All Herr Rassmussen’s Celebrated Herbal Remedies
MAY ALSO BE OBTAINED AT
No. S. Central Arcade, George Street
(between Liverpool and
Bathurst streets),
Sydney.
An Enterprising Queensland Colonist.
MR. THOMAS SHELSWELL. ROMA.
, r Tumi \s Shelswell, the subject of our
Mb- r , - a f a i r sample of a truly repre-
illusfcration, ' , j Bom in Warwickshire
sentative f]ays were
tofarming' pursuits whereby he readily
devoted knowled „ e regarding the
pSa of sheep, horses and cattle wh.ch have
served him so well in the land of Ins adoption,
But Warwickshire farming was a trifle too slow
for Mr. She!well’s ideas _ of success, and, likt
many other young men, with a view to bettering
his state he struck out for London. Here
Iig remained two yGtirs in tlio tiucle,
but about that time some glowing accounts
reached England respecting Queensland as a new
colony for settlement, and Mr. Shelswell deter-
mined to go out and see for himself what the
colony was like. Leaving a young wife in
England he sailed direct for Brisbane and arrived
there in 1809. To be “up and doing ” were the
thoughts uppermost in his mind, and, as nothing
better offered, he procured a digger’s “ kit ” and
made for the Gympio ilns proved
barely a “tucker” field, and hearing that things
were more flourishing in Victoria his first con-
sideration was how to get there with profit and
advantage. By a man of resource such a matter
was easily decided. Mr. Shelswell took steamer
to Sydney, proceeded to the Liverpool Plains,
purchased. a large mob of unbroken horses at
prices as low as 4s. (id. per head (many of them
brumbies), travelled them to Victoria, sold, and
made a very good spec, indeed. His next step was
as timber contractor supplying all heavy forest
woods to the railway contractors for the Worth
Eastern line in the neighborhood of Euroa and
near the river Murray. This completed, Mr.
Shelswell could not resist his old love for farming
and grazing pursuits, and during the early days
of Victorian selection he took up the usual com-
plement of 320 acres which with purchased land
soon totted up to close on 1000 acres - a very good
estate, the size of Victoria being considered. This
was in the neighborhood of Euroa, one of the most
fertile districts in the Murray Valley. Here Mr.
Shelswell followed sheep-farming, cattle-grazing
and cattle-dealing for 10 or 12 years with fair suc-
cess. Having received a good offer for his farm
he let it go, and, returning to Queensland, he
purchased a cattle-station in the Darling Downs
district near Dulacca, in 1882. Thus was a b
the time of one of the worst droughts Queensland
ever encountered, but, nothing daunted, Mi.
Shelswell turned his attention towards business
pursuits and purchased in 1884 a sound butchering
establishment in Roma which he worked in con-
nection with the cattle-run, selling the latter the
following year. His next and probably most sup-
cessful Queensland move was to purchase within
two miles of Roma the compact Estate of I air-
view,’’which with selected and purchased land,
makes about 2000 acres worked in conjunction
with a rented property of G40 acres. Fair view
occupies one of the healthiest sites in the neighbor-
hood of Roma, and irrespective of the genuine
hospitality of its popular proprietor is remarkable
for its extensive richness of pasture and the large
number of sleek, well-fed, fat cattle grazing there-
on. Here a sight meets the eye of the visitor,
and one which very few portions of Queensland
can boast. It consists of a large number of
beautiful black-polled Aberdeenshire cattle, many
of them being first crosses but carrying all the
characteristics of the pure breed. This is a case
in point where Mr. Shelswell has made consider-
able advance as compared with his central Queens-
land neighbours. “Not for me,” remarked the
proprietor of Fairview, “I decided to have a
distinct breed of cattle whose markings I can swear
to,” a matter not so easily managed when one is
confronted with innumerable heads of roans,
“baileys” and “reds.” In connection wit i
grazing and cattle-dealing, Mr. Shelswell still
carries on his butchering establishment in Roma
and is a live-stock judge of the first order as all
business people with whom he lias been associated
will testify. Mr. Shelswell is a man full of energy
and enterprize, great force of character, robust
constitution, genial and kindly disposition and
always with an eye open to the “main chance.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at Sydney, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin^”
Premier Australian Literary Join ual,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dts
tinctive Australian National Pokey.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Person, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Comolete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces —
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily ami
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while I he Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the .Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is the journal wliich, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast massof original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
cations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and farmers at wholesale prices.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
To darken grey hair.—Lockyer’s Sulphur
hair restorer is the quickest, best, safest, and
cheapest. Large Bottles, Is. 6d. Everywhere.
Insist upon having Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
THREEPENCE
Ask fov
TONI
CIGARS
WAKKEN & STBANG,
Sole Agents, Barrack Street.
THE BEST
CIGAR MADE
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINES
STEAM to
Victoria...
/MELBOURNE.
" (.GEELONG.
South Australia—ADELAlDE.
West Australia
f ALBANY.
I VASSE.
IEREEMANTLE (Perth).
I And all North-west Ports.
Tasmania
f HOBART.
•" \ L AUN CESTON.
The Steamers of this Line are all of modern
construction, built of steel, and embodying the
latest principles in Electric Lighting, Sanitary
Conveniences and Ventilation.
The provedoring is on the most liberal scale,
and carried out by the Company’s own provedore.
FREIGHTS and FARES on all Lines are
very much REDUCED.
For DAYS and HOURS OF SAILING see
daily papers, or apply at the office, where all
informed will be afforded.
Huddartj Parker £ Co,, Limited.
OFFICES AND WHARF:
Foot of MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
o,
t
imm.
'■ r )
m
IES5
m
SB
* \ m - Jtc
u ■
t /
HUDSON’S
SOAP
. Tl . “DRINK, PUPPY, DRINK!”
6 y om ifc. The Water Trough is one of those supplied by the Proprietors of Hudson’s Soap to Storekeepers, with a request that tbf
ma Y be placed on the Pavement during the Summer Months, for Thirsty Does. H
HUDSON’S EXTRACT OF SOAP reduces the Hours of Labour.
A Queensland Civic Magistrate.
MR. FREDERICK BOURNE, J.P., MAYOR OF ROMA.
Mr. Fred. Bourne, J,P., twice Mayor of Roma, was
born at Seaham, Hunter Rtver district, N.S.W., in
1841, and is one of a family of 12, of which Mr.
Alfred Bourne, one of the oldest and most res-
pected citizens in Sydney is the head. Mr.
Alfred Bourne, senr. (by the way, a fellow-
passenger of Sir Henry Parkes), arrived in
Sydney in 1832 by the ship Strath fieldsaye,
and almost immediately proceeded to Seaham.
After a short stay there he decided to settle at
Stroud, Port Stephens district, where he occupied
a farm in connection with the A.A. Co., and
where his family obtained the advantages
of a fair education. Here Mr. Frederick
Bourne spent his early years in farming,
stock-keeping, and general station work, in
which all_ Australian natives about that time took
a hearty interest. The knowledge thus acquired
enabled Mr. Bourne to strike out on his own
account, when he visited the Darling Downs, and
was connected with station work in various
responsible positions, and for nine years was over-
seer at Mount Hutton, a cattle and sheep station of
some magnitude in the Leichhardt district. About
12 or 13 years ago Roma was a promising settle-
ment full of life and activity, so much so that
Mr. Bourne decided to “pin his faith” to the
town and district. The result was that he
started several important industries. It is
not every town that has the good fortune to
have men of Mr. Bourne’s stamp taking an active
part in its progress and prosperity. Mr. Bourne
accepted aldermanic honours about eight years
ago and is now in the second year of his
mayoralty.
In this sketch it may be mentioned that whilst
Mr. Fred Bourne is the eldest of four brothers,
the late M.P., Alfred Bourne, junr., was the
youngest —a young man of great literary promise,
who, in the commencement of a most brilliant
career, was cut down in 1884 after a short illness.
Respecting Mr. Alfred Bourne, junr,, a few
words may be here apropos, inasmuch as for a
young man his literary ability was greatly admired
by all leading men of letters. Having served on
the typographical staff of the S.M. Herald, he
obtained a good appointment in the Govern-
ment Printing Office, and whilst the official his-
tory of N.S. Wales, 1788 to 1883, was being pro-
duced Mr. Alfred Bourne, junr., was selected for
the task of “ Extracting matter for the Epitome
from the official records and compiling in its
present shape.” How well the work was per-
formed a reference to the official history will
amply testify. Mr. Fred Bourne has two brothers,
one with Messrs. Clark Bros., East Talgai, and
another in business at Tamworth. The head
of the family, Mr. Alfred Bourne, senior.,
now about 76 years of age, is one of the most
popular and highly-respected citizens in Sydney.
Answers to Correspondents.
“Walter Goodwin”: Your personal remedy
seems to be to avoid law. You have probably mixed up
the affirmation business. You should also have had a
written agreement and stood on safe ground. You can
appeal personally to Gormly, M.L.A., and your supplica-
tion will assuredly be pigeon-holed ; departmental
reports will outweigh your statements. The address of
Spain and Moore, solicitors, is “ Exchange Buildings,
Bridge-street, Sydney”.... “W. K.”: If a tenant who has
not paid his rent removes his goods to prevent distraint,
he is liable to be fined twice the value of the goods
removed, in default, six months’ gaol with hard labour.
This law applies, we believe, in all the Australias, certainly
in Victoria, N.S. Wales and Queensland. However, if the
absconding tenant can dodge personal service of the
summons the Court can’t touch him “Newcastle”:
There have been many such changes. Look at Dibbs, the
howling Soudan statesman of a year or two ago, trans-
mogrified into an uncompromising Republican. Grey has
all his life steered by the same star “E.W.”: Letty
Lind is not coming with the Gaiety Co “ Scotus ”
(Balmain) : We suppose we are dense. Nearly every man
connected with The Bulletin office has a Scotch name
“O.J.R.”: Thanks “F.J.C.”: Please call
“ Harry B.” : Many thanks.... “ J.R.” (L. Ponds): Very
welcome... “ C.H.E.” (Mel.) : Thanks....“ Jos, Hanka”:
A hoary joke, 100 years old. Besides, you can’t draw
“ A Correspondent ” : Beelahville, Forbes, New South
Wales “H.F.”: “Civil War” not suitable ...“J.M.”:
Apropos to nothing,,,. “ Werdna Yelnah ”: It won’t do!
You spread your humour, as poor foils do butter, out
thinly.... “Thunderer” : Every sheet of paper has two
sides; the compositor knows only one “ Observer ” :
The capitalist lends out his money, not from benevolent
motives, but that he may be able to tax the community
for its use.... “ Single-taxer ” : For George’s sources of
inspiration see J. W. Sullivan’s “ Ideo-Kleptomania,”
price 15 cents, published by the Twentieth Century Co.,
N.Y “Unfortunate Subscriber” (Milpa): Thanks
“Subscriber” (Tas.); We never print such things.,..
“Republican” (Dunedin): Sorry to say too late
«‘A. M‘G.”: Many thanks . “Torrid”: Horrid
“A.S.”: “Ryebuk” is a cabmen’s term for money
swindled from the employer. “Barrackin’” is not Irish
as supposed (from Barkin’), but is London slang—see
Mayhew’s “London Labour and London Poor.”
“ S.E.” : Thanks. It was not Dalton of Orange (N.S.W.)
who “landed Tim Healy a facer,” but one Dalton, a
Tipperary storekeeper. The popular English belief that
all Australians are pugilists was, no doubt, at the bottom
of this mistake.... “ A.M.0.”: You cannot fasten on the
general body of the shearers the odium of such acts as
the sawing of railway-bridges. And how can you charg
a lot of people with conspiracy simply because one or two
of them happen to write boasting letters to others?
“E. E. Bowen”: Sydney will find him. He is in business
still “Waraane”: Received... .“Abel May”: Wilj
consider—“ Joseph ” (0. Towers): Old as the hills
“Albert H. B.”; Will consider.... “G.H.G.” (Mel’b.)!
Yes, hut you must condense “ Thos. F.”: Yes, it is
evident that Davitt has reversed his opinion of Parnell....
“ Constant Reader ”: Don’t you really think there are
enough papers devoted to the work of keeping the
“sterling qualities” of politicians steadily before the
public}? “Circuit”; Next week probably “Wise.
head ”: You must condense. That is what’s the matter-
“W.L.” (Melh.) : Many thanks for extracts
“ Spartan” ; We have your letter. Argus ” : A very
superficial statement of the case, such as we see every
day in the daily press. We only agree with you on one
point, namely, that it was a mistake for the union
shearers to decline to work for those squatters who had
“shorn union.” “Karl Boesen ” : We can’t afford to
print your letter in full, but will give its purport: What
earthly reason could there have been for the order that
the two mines, one of which exploded with such deadly
effect at Middle Head, should be laid down one at a time
and exploded one at a time, instead of being both laid ere
it was sought to explode either? “One who was Pre-
sent” : Will read for next week “ 8.C.” (Mount
Morgan): Thanks. You ask: What are your religious
views? “A wise man never tells his religion,” said
Disraeli.... “ Jimmy Pannikin ” : Just a little over-blue.
“ L.G.” ; Weak verse, spoilt by the equivocal title in
any case.... “Geo. P.” : Please tell exact date on which
enquiry appeared ...“ Spartan ” : Good letter, but we
have already remarked to same effect “W. Murphy ” ;
After reading the illustrative schedule on the N.S.W.
census-paper, we don’t see that your nationality has any-
thing to complain of. Statistician Coghlan has fairly
apportioned the “can’t-read” business, &c., between the
various religions in the schedule... “Monaro”: A fine
type. But we dare say the poor wretch means what he
says “ 1.C.” (Broken Hill): Many thanks.... “B. A."
(Barcom): Please call “Jas. Osborne”: Not good
enough “Servabo Fidem”: Not in our vein
“Quaero”; The French Canadians, as Roman Catholics',
don't want to separate from Great Britain. Their schools
are maintained at the public expense, and they have
numerous privileges, granted by the Imperial Parlia-
ment in order to strengthen R.C. allegiance at the time
of the American Revolutionary war. If the Canadians
joined the Union, the American Constitution would not
pel'll!it those privileges longer to exist “J.H.S.”:
“ Radical”: (1) They are out of print, but you may be
able to get them second-hand ; try Dymock, bookseller,
Sydney, who will hunt them up if'anyone can. (2)
Kendall’s poems are published at 6s. 6d., by George
Robertson, Melbourne. (3) “ Ballads of Babylon ” will
cost you 15.... “E. West ” : The public, which doesn’t
regard grog as the be-all and end-all of existence,
doesn’t take half so lively an interest in the question of
Sunday-closing as the whisky-millowners imagine. The
Bulletin doesn’t mind public-houses being shut on Sun-
day except on the ground that the shutting is effected—
as part of a big scheme of organised tyranny—by a set
of people who, if they could, would flog the population to
their own particular churches with stock-whips
“A.W.”(8.): The Government statists will probably
adopt the simple expedient of adding 30 per cent, to the
census ages given by the women “H.Y.A.”:
We pinch you very hard for stale news .’
“ J.P.8.”: Re “Unchanged” we should advise you to use
the “ R.”...." D’Arcy Richie”: Your verses are weak..
“ Airey Bell”: Imitations we don’t care for, and stale
Cockney humour is not relished by the public. Re-
turned— “ H. N. Quick” : “ Morehu’s Last Battle ” de-
clined with thanks. Returned... “ 11. H. Vincent” : Too
lengthy “ A.W.” (Paddington): Too improbable
“ W. Byrnes”: Use fewer words and shorter sentences.
Your “ Legal Dilemma,” surely a misnomer, might be
better hit off in a paragraph. Box” ; “Lay of Land,
agent ” laid 0ut.... “ Ne’er-do-w'ell ”; Not bad ; may use


Clarke’s “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp Food-Warmers
■
0.0:03
risa
fm
f f*oi
a\
o'
■VO
ggs
i
SI SIB
aoj
SbnoHes
ip& s 3W
®w»«Ad s
TOM
i3tU 3av
1*316
633 U
tfawavM 000,
IV3X\,. .-
MEVi PATTERN
Including BRASS
“PYRAMID” Lam.-
and Registered
Pannikin. By this
invention any liquid
food can bo poured
out or drunk, with-
out seam or grease
passing through the
epout, and prevent.)
spilling when poured
into a Feeding Bottle
so unavoidable with
all other Pannikins
Theso Pannikins
will et all the old
“ Pyramid” Nursery
Lamps and can
be purchased
separately
Is Fireproof
Plaster
Casing
with
Single Wicks
in Boxes
.'.ontaimng 8 Lights,
BUKN
9 Hours
«aoh.
‘PYRAMID” LIGHT
The®!!
ai/ourib
svs
the.
&URCLAB s
Horror
V
“FAIRY PYRAMID” LIGHT
With DOUBLE Wicks,
in. Boxes containing g
Lights and Glass BURN
6 Hours each Burn
(0 Hours with Single
Wicks. Those arc smaller
than “ Fairy" Lights,
consequently loss expen-
sive, and will burn in
any of the Fairy ”or
•Fairy Pyramid” Lamps
Id Glass
with
Double
Wicks
in Boxes
containing
6 Lights,
BURN
(0 Hours
each
“FAIRY LIGHT."
t he Queen
OF
SINGLE Wick in boxes
containing g Lights and
Glass. BURN if) Hours.
These are smaller than
“ Fairy ” Lights, conse-
quently less expensive,
and will bum in any of
the ••Fairy” or “Fairy
Pyramid” Lamps.
FAIRY-PYRAMID " LIGHT.
fty
OLD SHAPE
PANNIKIK
SEW
SHAPE
PANNIKIN
R.qq?
M.B —AD Clarke’s Lights are warranted free'from Paraffin, or other dangerous material.
FAR, FAR AND AWAY THE BEST.
Bold, toy all -tlx© leading netail Houses.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia : FRANCIS FORREST & CO., 484 Colling Street, MELBOURNE.
Lethe.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Through the noiseless doors of Death
Three passed out, as with one breath.
Two had faces stern as Fate,
Stamped with unrelenting hate.
One upon her lips of guile
Wore a cold, mysterious smile.
Each of each unseen, the pale
Shades went down the hollow vale
Till they came unto the deep
River of Eternal Sleep.
Breath of wind, or wing of bird,
Never that dark stream hath stirred ;
Still it seems as is the shore,
But it flows forevermore
Softly, through the meadows wan
To the Sea Oblivion.
In the dark, like drops of blood,
Poppies hang above the flood,
On its surface lies a thin
Ghostly web of mist, wherein
All things vague and changing seem,
As the faces in a dream.
Two knelt down upon the bank
And of that dark water drank.
But the Third stood by the while,
Smiling her mysterious smile.
Rising up, those shades of men
Gazed upon each other, then
Side by side, upon the bank,
On a bed of poppies sank.
“ What,” one to the other saith,
“ Sent thee through the doors of Death ? ”
“ While life throbbed in ev’ry vein,
For a woman I was slain.
Love is but a fleeting spell,
Hate alone remembers well.
For my slayer I shall wai l,
And though he at Heaven’s gate
•Stand, and wear an angel’s crown,
I shall seize and drag him down ! ”
So the stern shade made reply.
Then the first that spake said, “ I
For a woman’s sake, also,
Slew myself—and slew my foe.
Slew myself, that in no shape
He my vengeance should escape,
Till oblivion swallow both :
And I swore a solemn oath
I would—hate remembers well—
t Hunt his spotted soul to hell.
.But I left, ere leave-taking,
’Round her white throat a red ring.
I shall know her —you shall note—
By that red ring ’round her throat.
A Veil I loved my fair, false wife,
And, perchance, in this new life
She may love me—we shall see —
She shall choose ’twixt him and me. ”
Softly did the other sigh
“ My love’s love will never die.
Love is not a fleeting spell—
Love, like hate, remembers well.
Soon—mayhap on this dim shore—■
We shall meet to part no more.”
Then the first Shade spoke and said,
“ In this Kingdom of the Dead
Let us, who so strangely meet,
Pledge each other in this sweet
Water, our revenge to wreak
Side by side, and so to seek,
Side by side, whate’er our fate,
Those we love and those we hate.”
Kneeling on the dim shore then
Side by side they drank again.
And they saw, like drops of blood,
Poppies nodding o’er the flood,
And they gazed upon the thin
Ghostly web of mist, wherein
All things vague and changing seem
As the faces in a dream ;
And, by some enchantment weird,
As they gazed thereon appeared
Unto each, down-bending low,
Form and features of his foe,
For a moment, then were gone,
And upon the meadows wan—
Half in Death and half aswoon—
Shone a pale and spectral moon.
Then these twain rose, drowsy-eyed,
And departed side by side.
But the Woman-Shade the while
Smiled her cold, mysterious smile.
And her beauty made a light
In that realm of pallid night
(Beauty ends not in the grave)
jfike the moon beneath the wave.
Back she flung her hair of gold,
Glowing, gleaming, fold on fold,
Showing—all but these might note—
The red ring around her throat.
But they passed witli cold surprise.
And unrecognising eyes.
Lightly laughed she then, and said
“ In this Kingdom of the Dead
“ Strange the sights that one may see !
There go twain who died for me
“ Seeking, through Creation wide.
For each other—side by side !”
Then she Wove a poppy-crown,
Placed it on her head, and down
On the river’s margin sank—
But not of the water drank—
Saying : “In the world above
Long he tarrieth, my love ;
Here beside this river’s rim
I shall sleep, and wait for Mm.”’
VICTOR J. DALEY.
Dear Bulletin,— Let me tell you a story
apropos to Robert Louis Stevenson’s graphic
account of the willing manner in which the
melancholy Marquesans go more than half way to
meet death. Some years ago I was field-overseer
on a N.Q. plantation. During one crushing, when
we were working double tides in. our endeavour to
get in the heavy crop before the wet season, we
had a gang of Mallicolo boys feeding; the
“ rollers.” These boys were the pick of the plan-
tation, fine, healthy strapping fellows; and as they
had unusually heavy work, viz., carrying bundles
of cane from where the cane-carts left it to■ the
rollers - a distance of about ten yards and all up-
hill—they were given an extra ration and more
tobacco than the regulation allowance. One day
the owner had occasion to soundly rate the chief
of the gang for interfering with a woman belong-
ing to some other Islander, and the fellow turned
sulky. However, he worked on that day, but the
next morning did not turn up, and on my inquiring
from his mates what was up with him, I saw
directly by their tone and manner that something
was wrong as they answered me : “ Him plenty
sick, that fellow, master been make him no good
altogether.” I then went down to his quarters and
found him lying on his back, but on seeing me
enter he turned his head to the wall and would
not answer. I reported to the owner what the
boys had told me, and he came up to see the sick
boy, but, on our entering the hut, the boy showed
such signs of fear, cowering up in a corner of his
bunk and averting his head from us, that the
owner thought it better to leave him. He went
then to the rest of the gang and tried to get some
explanation from them, but although they did
not seem afraid of the boss, all we could get out
of them was: “ By-and-bye, to-morrow, that
fellow ‘Taracca’ (the sick boy’s name) finish.”
Sure enough next evening he did die. The gang
were then very sullen for a day or so; then
another lay up, refused to be comforted, and died
in two days. A third and fourth followed quickly
—just lay up and died from pure cussedness.
Things began to look serious, as these were our
very best boys, and the example was beginning to
demoralise the remainder. So when the seventh
took to his bed, I just went down to his quarters
and had a look at him. There did not seem any-
thing the matter, but he refused to eat or drink.
I got him put on a stretcher in the back room of
my quarters and made him drink a half-pannikin
of 30 o.p. rum, kept him gloriously drunk all day,
and then left him to sleep it off. Next day he
arose with a headache ; I gave him a nip and "sent
him to work. I had no more sick nigs, from his
gang that season, and all the boys firmly believe in
me as a doctor. “My word, you plenty savee,
make ’im boy very good. Suppose you make ’im
all same nother fellow boy ’im no finish.”—
Kookabubba.
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A descriptive writer in the Queenslander
tells how nearly 18ft of rain fell at Geraldton, and
Johnston river, N.Q., in 1890, and in seven weeks
of this year, 78 inches were recorded there; while,
in 1889, at Goondi, two miles from Geraldton,
198 inches fell. It was from Geraldton that an
application for a boy was made to bale out the
rain-gauge, it being found impossible to regulate
it any other way.
Queensland authorities will try to “ jug”
Vosper, “trustee” of the comically “seditious ”
Republican, for brandishing his tin-dagger, reek-
ing with stage clots incarnadine, and howling for
more vats of gore. The “ seditious ” article is the
jaggedest panorama that ever spurted from a
crank’s brain, and drops in its moods suddenly
from star-heights of bombast to the ludicrous mud-
sprawling of a circus-clown. Its author, in one of
his forked-lightning zigzags, yells that the unionist
shearers “ must have either bread or blood —
WOOL or heads— and if the Government be not
careful they will have both.” Sheep’s jimmies
with the wool on ! Black-puddings and damper !
After an impassioned tally-ho to all “MEN” to
“strike for your rights, your manhood, your
country and your lives,” the astral acrobat falls
headlong to earthy burlesque as thus daubed : — 1
“ If your*oppressors will not listen to reason, let
them feel cold lead and steel; as they have
starved, so do you shoot them; and allow them
not to destroy your liberties and deprive you of
your bread without a fight. Better to see the last
squatter and the last member of this hateful
Government butchered than to see one jot or one
tittle of the sacred rights of the people lost!” The
Bloody Liberator is here supposed to hoof-paw th
slow music and veiled bull’s-eyes, three strides iil
a bar, ricocheting from each wing of the stage,
with nitro-glycerine in his heart and livid light-
ning in his eyes. Seriously, how can you crimi-
nally arraign a burlesque ‘ ‘ sedition ” of this sort 1
Any judge who visited such laughable tommyrot
with the stern penalties of the law would pro-
claim himself utterly devoid of humour.
Many people seeing the words “Microbe-
Killer” have been led to believe that it is a
disinfectant. It is not a disinfectant, but a
powerful medicine, for while it kills the germs of
disease, it does it in a different manner. It is
taken internally or applied externally as the case
may require. It attacks and kills the microbes in
the system which are the direct cause of disease.
After these germs are destroyed the medicine will
thoroughly cleanse the blood and tone up the
whole system—in short, it restores to a healthy
condition all the members of the body. Although
this medicine has only been for sale in Australia
a short time the constantly increasing sales bear
witness to the good it is accomplishing. People
who have been using the Microbe Killer for con-
sumption, kidney and liver troubles, indigestion,
and, in fact, for almost every disease, are loud in
their praises of its virtue. Being composed of
pure water charged with powerful germ destroy-
ing gases it is as pleasant to drink as pure spring
water. Send for the book, “History of Microbes
and the Microbe Killer,” posted free. The head
office is 40 Blizabeth-street, Melbourne, but
agencies have been established at 319 George-
street, Sydney; 17 Hunter-street, Newcastle;
and 26 Queen-street, Brisbane, where the medicine
can be obtained.*
Fortune for a few pounds.—Buy land in the
Capital City of West Australia. W. J. Douglas,
96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.


m
i
m
=^iii
mmm
m
%3S
mmm
wmmm
m
I
>;%
*' -m-i'&r:
win
is?i
Wmmm
s«S9»»
IflH
: -V2
'V> 'vfl
Us/;-:-;/.-
mSishv/
wki/;..
m
w,
:
f
Feminine Morality.
Mrs. Mayo, an English writer, proceeds to argue
in the Leisure Hour that women are distinctly
inferior to men in many important elements of
human character. To begin with, women, she
says, blind themselves to their own wickedness by
using innocent terms to describe plain sins.
Treachery is called tact; lies, fibbing ; drunken-
ness, over-stimulation ; while thoughtlessness is
simply sheer vulgar selfishness and disregard for
the rights of others. Selfishness may be equal in
both sexes, but it manifests itself pre-eminently in
some women lay their capacity for petty pushing
and grasping, and by their callous indifference to
the rights and feelings of others ;
I am afraid that disregard for others’ rights, an indis-
position to look not only on one’s own things, but also on
the things of others, is a besetting weakness of our poor
sex. I think it is John Ruskin who somewhere says, in
his rather sweeping fashion, that he has come across very
few women who seem to realise that there is anybody
else in the world except themselves and their own
children !
Sometimes out of spiteful inquisitiveness, some-
times to gratify a mean vanity, women will
recklessly undermine or damage the influence or
authority which is really responsible for the wel-
fare of young lives. Nor is this all. While men
and women are far more alike than they are dif-
ferent, women are much wickeder in being more
spiteful :
For instance, women go out of their way to inflict pain
or contumely on each other, even when there is no ques-
tion of revenge or spite, or scarcely of personal know-
ledge. I have no doubt some men are quite as purse-
proud or house-proud as some women, but generally they
will simply neglect those whom they outshine. The
woman wishes to drive home her triumph and enjoy it
with the flavour of somebody’s humiliation.
Then, again, few women have among themselves
any share of that which among men is called
“honour.” A room full of girls will indulge in
the most spiteful remarks about a visitor whom
they see coming up the avenue, and then the
moment she has arrived in the room they will
surround her with greetings, hugging her, kissing
her, and generally teaching a terrible lesson as to
the possibilities of feminine treachery :
I have heard men make remarks about others both
spiteful and severe. . . . But those men would not
straightway fawn upon the object of their contempt and
profess an unctuous joy in his society. If any man did
so, his fellows would instantly dub him a cad and a sneak.
And yet too many men only laugh when they detect
women in these mean treacheries! Quite recently a
“society” journal said airily, as a matter of course, that
women are allowed to speak and behave in ways which
would cause the immediate ostracism of a man.' I think
the virtue about which women should examine them-
selves and their ways is truthfulness ! I do think it is the
lack of this which underlies much bad manners, and social
treachery, and petty injustice.
Mrs. Mayo fim'shes up by quoting Canon Little-
dale, who says that men rarely stab one another
with the personal stilettoes of concentrated spite
which women are apt to wield. Men are loth to
strike a fallen enemy, whereas too many wemen
delight in trampling on him to the last. He also
says that there is a lower standard of truthfulness
among women than among men, proved by small
social hypocrisies, continual inaccuracy, and a
marked tendency to exaggeration.
Then another writer in another magazine con-
tinues the music :
It was a lady of title (he remarks) who brought about
the present gambling trouble at Tranby Croft. It is well
known that among card-players in private houses ladies
are notoriously the most persistent and open cheats, and
that they do again and again with complete impunity the
very acts which are accounted disgraceful and ruinous in
a man. It was only recently that, at a card-party, one
htled ! ac| y violently boxed the ears of another and
accused her of cheating. So far, however, from the
acC usation injuring the latter, the laugh went entirely
against the aggressor for getting violently excited about
an everyday occurrence. Nay, more, the explanation given
of this unusual excitement was that* probably the
boxer had herself cheated, and the foul play of the boxed
J lad rol3bed the former of the profits of her own dis-
honest Y- So callous, moreover, is Society on this sub-
jeot that if a one refused t 0 play with these ]adieg nov
0 n the ground that they cheated, he would be regarded as
an imbecile, who neither knew the world nor its manners,
It is recognised that women must cheat if they play at
cards, or, indeed, at any game where cheating is possible,
They can no more help it than they can keep a secret, or
reft-fiiii from tattling, or keep away from men (especially
lf the i a tt er do not want them). They do not realise the
criminality or disgrace of it, and a man might talk him-
self black in the face before he could succeed in persuad-
ing them’that there was any more harm in it than in
abusing a prettier woman than themselves or cutting out
a hated rival. To treat the offence, moreover 'when
committed by a woman as being on a level with cheating
by a man, would really be as rational as to punish a child
for ill-treating a doll in the same measure as one would
mete out to a man kicking his wife,
. In short, in England as elsewhere women are a disturb-
3ng cbment in all preconceived notions or schemes of
“- the worst of the thing is that if any effort
were made to impress the right view on the mind of affair
culprit by harsh measures, she would not only get the
sympathy of a majority of her own sex out of fellow-
feeling, but she would also have the strong support of a
number of the other sex, on the purely illogical ground
that she was pretty, or attractive, or sensitive, or per-
kaps only delicate in health ; all of which excuses, if a
man a ttempted to urge them, would merely be regarded
as an aggravation of her offence. Men, in fact, may con-
sider themselves fortunate if the ladies confine themselves
merely to cheating, for many of the harpies who play
regularly with a determination to wun at any price, not
not only call in dishonest skill to avert the unkindness of
chance, but very often decline to be bound by the decision
0 f the blind goddess, and, in short, refuse to pay as well,
t
The gl . eat Pittsburgh strike, which a
,r , , , 6 , , ’ ~
tb P u f“ d , tl '° + °P s have b f n fto “put down ”
?' nse ' ’!®. ironworkers demand for eight
f urs { io thinks eight hours work not enough
01 a lam merman ‘
,11l Clermont (Q.) they get prisoners to do
sundry “chores” at the lockup. Not long ago
one was thus emnloved and was fetcbino* wafpr
VLI J f fetching water
buckets fiom the tank outside. After a time
I. constable in charge, who was very busy in-
side, thought the bucket was long in filling, and,
going out to hasten matters, he found the tap still
running, the tank nearly empty, and the prisoner
vnrl Another nrlsraisr bad 1m-
Another prisoner had his sweetheart let
mto see him. JNext morning the bird had flown
through a neat, square hole in the floor, bored
out with brace and bit “ she ” had smuggled in.
The late Policp-sero-eant 1)1111011 AJWad
Dalton (alleged
. , ■ * e word larrikin ), while once
K 1?%
. ‘ . , e that for weeks past they had
been a terror f the T ghbourhood, and that it
nf “f t 0 * a warni »f. them.”
® ne 7 P llsoners hereupon averred that Dalton
TfwTJif j IS 'tow-accuse had
y .. rpf p tvvo days, after serving 18
'^^h o Bench to DaLon : “Have you any
knowledge of these men. Do you know them at
all?” Sergeant Dalton (seeing he was clean
bowled outl • “Your Worshins fhnlHincr nut hid
j V. I TI. orstnps (Holding out his
# •*-'0 know my band . The
Bench enjoyed the joke and discharged the
larrikins.
A Murrumbidgee whaler, way back from
Carrathool, declares to The Bulletin, that the
fish in that part of the river are the best in N.S.
Wales, and better than Newfoundland cod.
Dear Bulletin,-— lt is not the unemployed
of the big cities whom the Unionist shearers
despise for co-operating with the pastoralists. It
is the free selector—he who leaves 9, good home,
with a gold ring on his finger, to play the role of
blackleg for filthy lucre which he does not press-
iugly need. That’s the fellow. The man who
despoils his poorer brother of a few pounds in the
hour of the latter’s need.—S.
It is related that in the neighbourhood of
Cooper’s Creek, on St. Patrick’s Day, a Milesian
gentleman, who had collapsed, was left to rest in
the bush whilst his friends carried on the spree.
On awakening he was terrified by his loneliness
and sought refuge in impromptu prayer:—“ O Lad
Cad Almighty, look down upon me, Patrick
Doolan, Esq., Jay Pay of Jumba Station, brother-
in-law to Michael O’Grady, Esq., Jay Pay of
Yarrowlahmine Station, lost in the wilds of this
black Australian hush for ever and ever, Amen.
Glory be to Gad !
A Victorian reporter, after hideously
depreciating Sydney’s dowdy women and “ dirty,
miserable shops, stocked with fifth-rate goods,”
winds up about the gutter gamins thus :
Everywhere the children, even those of parents whom
we should crown in Victoria as belonging to the class of
respectable tradesmen, are shoeless, hungry-looking and
thinly clad, and among the people one meets in the
street-ways there is nothing of that sleek, plenty-to-eat,
shot-in-the-locker look that characterises the Victorian.
A visit to Sydney in the year 1891 is only a saddening
experience.
A number of the Australian daily papers
the other day received a cablegram, probably
originally worded thus :■ —
Influenza Chicago 300 deaths Monday funerals congest
traffic.
The Australian Star, however, obviously has a
special cable-service of its own, for do we not read
in its columns the following :
London, April 1.
The influenza is raging in Chicago with unprecedented
deadliness. The paralysing influences of the terrible
malady have assumed the alarming dimensions of a
plague. The distemper is of a powerfully-destructive
character, and shatters its victims with fearful sudden-
ness. The severity of the visitation eclipses all previous
appearances of this discomforting disease. The medical
faculty of America fails to account for the present out-
break, and is equally powerless to control its spread. The
doctors, nurses and charitable institutions are doing
everything possible for the sufferers, but are overwhelmed
by the multitude crying bitterly for relief from the
tortures of the fatal influenza. A despatch received from
Chicago, where the malady is raging most violently,
states that last Monday’s record was 300 deaths. This,
also, is about the daily average. The city has
been cast from a condition of activity and happy vigour
into indescribable gloom and unbridled terror. The great
streets of the populous city are congested with vehicles
carrying to the sepulchre the silent victims of the visita-
tion. The aspect of the burial-grounds is tragically
mournful and mysterious. Grave-diggers are delving
into the turf night and day, and another company is
ceaselessly engaged shovelling clay on the dead influenza
dust. All the time hearses crowd the cemetery gateways
and coffins of luxurious and humble designs are shoul-
dered about with promiscuous regularity. Hysterical
mourners for the dead are entangled everywhere, and
confusion reigns conjointly with lamentation. The in-
habitants of the city are filled with terror, and the sad
vacancy of death depresses every household. Fears are
entertained that the influenza outbreak has by no means
reached the climax of its furies and terrors, aud that the
next few weeks will show more shocking dimensions of
the visitation.
This kind of thing is an insult to human intelli-
gence, and deceives nobody but the gabbling idiot
who sends it over the ocean at such an alarming
expense to the enterprising Stab proprietary.
They hanged a man in Melbourne the
other day, and there was the usual blab of pathos
in the two evening papers when the affair was
over. The Herald looked at the matter from a
subdued religious standpoint, with a wail in it,
and a dash of left-off prophecy ; and warmed up
the cold hash that was left from the last sermon,
and in a general way, it banged a moral hymn in
a muffled tone of tears and lamentation. But the
Standard wisely spread itself rather on the
artistic aspect of the picture, and dealt with the
fleeting shadows that were cast by the sunlight
upon the gallows, and the rich, dark colouring
and tranquil hang of the noose, and the mellow
tints of the door of the condemned-cell as they
stood out boldly against the profound calm of the
whitewash in the corridor. The following are
typical specimens of these two distinct orders of
literature—the coarsely-daubed snuffle of the
Herald coming first ;
Man, notwithstanding his education and his surround-
ings, still has, to a greater or lesser extent, that jealousy
and that passion which developed in Cain, and led to the
murder of Abel. Now as then man is a ship afloat on an
ocean, and too often, though there may be an attempt to
steer by the best promptings of reason, the gale of passion
proves too strong and drives the ship on to the rocks,
where destruction is inevitable. As it was with Cain, and
has been since with thousands of others, so apparently it
will be until those halcyon days of universal selfrrestraini,
wisdom, and happiness, which poets sing of, and which
the weary storm-tossed would long ardently to see.
After this garish hunk of pious reflection the
Sabbath calm of the other paper is an oasis in the
desert. One sentence will do :
A stray sunbeam played furtively through the roof as
though anxious to see too, and for a moment lit up the
spot where, in another minute, the condemned man would
stand to take his last farewell of every thing .earthly.
There is nothing repulsive about that picture.
The writer doesn’t rise and throw the strangled
corpse at your head in a manner of speaking.
He rather seeks to cast a delicate witchery about
the gallows, and to evoke a morning radiance out
of the hangman, and he finds a solemn, im-
moveable grandeur in the solid repose of,the trap-
door. And if the patient, instead of being exe-
cuted, had had his head knocked off in a tram-
accident, the same author would have told how
the moon rose, like a silver shield over the brains
scattered on the track, and the deathless stars
smiled softly down on the squashed ear of the
deceased. Looking through his story we begin'to
realise how the genius of Byron would have shone
forth if he had gone to report a gaol-flogging, and,
if Milton had only fixed up an account of a hang-
ing when he was in his prime the literature of his
country would have been a good deal richer than
it is. And, even if Tennyson'happened to drop in
at an inquest on a man who had fallen off a
particularly high roof, and put the details about
his banged and damaged fellow-creature into
imperishable verse he might do a lot to lift up the
moral tone of the community.
If people who are troubled with colds will take
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral before going to church,
they will avoid coughing. The pectoral soothes
and heals the irritated tissues, and controls all
disposition to cough.


jd
s\i\.?Vvm
T S
Sole
Proprietors
<FR£ZEK& 6? Ii.IuDGATE Square. London. e.c.
est Them Free of Charge.
What we are Prepared to do
We are prepared to supply 100,000 of the Australa-
sian public with samples of FRAZER’S SULPHUR
TABLETS, gratis and post free.
A Word of Advice.
Don’t write for the samples simply because we offer
them free of charge, nor because your neighbour does.
Read our advertisement through to the end, and then
decide whether you or yours need or would be benefited
by the use of FRAZER’S SULPHUR TABLETS.
We do not pose as philanthropists. This is a business
offer. We have an article that we know from severe
tests and from results achieved will sell on its merits if
seen, tasted and tested. Sulphur is the oldest, the best,
and safest remedy for the blood, for the skin, for the
complexion, for rheumatism, and for constipation.
FRAZER’S SULPHUR TABLETS are composed of
sulphur incorporated with cream of tartar and other
curative ingredients. They are much more efficacious
than sulphur in milk or treacle. This has been proved
time and again. They are liked. Men favour them,
women hail them as a boon, and children think them as
pleasant to eat as confectionary. They benefit all, and
are as efficacious and curative as/they are safe and agree-
able.
Their Success.
“FRAZER'S SULPHUR TABLETS” are the
latest and greatest British success. They have so much
merit as to always do good. They are so palatable and
agreeable that a child will take them with delight. They
are so safe that the weakest person may take them with-
out injury. They benefit every function of the body by
tonic action on the blood vessels.
Why do we take this H.isk?
This is what people ask us. We reply, because
those who write for the samples afterwards buy packets
of FRAZER’S SULPHUR TABLETS by post from
us, or obtain them from chemists, stores, or medicine
vendors. People likewise recommend and keep the
Tablets by them. The consequence is that we sell several
hundred dozen packets weekly, and the sale is rapidly
growing. This is trade by merit. The public have
shown discrimnation, and that they can appreciate merit,
and it was in firm reliance that this would be the case
that we were led to incur this risk.
Do 1 need them ?
If you have Rheumatism, Yes. They will kill the
decomposed and poisonous excess of uric acid in the blood
causing the disease.
If you have Constipation, Yes. They are a gentle,
safe, and a simple laxative, as suitable for children (in
smaller doses) as for adults.
If you have Hemorrhoids, Yes. They relieve the
congestion of venous blood at the affected parts, and
afford relief.
If you have Ulcers, Scrofula, Scurvy, or other
impurities of the blood, Yes. They neutralise the blood
poisons causing the diseases and expel them out of the
system.
If you have Skin Disease or Eruption, Yes. They
have a specific curative effect on all such, as they open
the pores from internally, and free them from obstruction
and disease taint. They likewise control where they do
not kill the disease principle from the blood, which causes
Eczema and other diseases.
Write a letter or post-card to the Australasian Depot, naming The Bulletin, and samples of FRAZER’S SULPHUR TABLETS
will be sent you gratis and post free. They are for internal use for the Blood, Skin, Fevers, Complexion, Rheumatism, and Constipation. They
ward off Typhoid and all other infectious and contagious diseases. They are put up in packets, price in New South Wales, Is. 6d.; in Victoria
Is. 9d. (postage 2d. per packet extra), of all chemists and storekeepers throughout Australasia.
PP" It* your Chemist or Storekeeper cannot supply ihcm apply to the Australian Agency.
T. K. STEANEB
*(eee xoh odt sninoo arwn: ees
<BOOl x oa: 'Ovac)
Wholesale of The Australian Drug Co., Lim., and Messrs. Elliott Brothers, Lim.-, Sydney, and Messrs. Elliott Brothers, Liin., Brisbane.
Test Them Free of Charge.


The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no rival.
An exhilarating cordial is Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Hindoo Blend, a blend of choicest Indian teas.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—a mild stimulant.
Wolfe’s Schnapps will do you no harm.
“Assam,” “Cup,” and “Hindoo ” Blends of tea.
EVERY HOUSEHOLD—especially where
there are yo<ung cnildren—should he provided
with Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the prompt use of
which has saved innumerable lives. Its effect
Is immediate and certain. It stops coughing, pro-
motes expectoration, and soothes the irritated
membrane. The most famous and successful
Cough“OuB*e
in the world, it has no equal as a remedy for
asthma, bronchitis, inflamed tonsils, loss of
voice, whooping-cough, croup, and the sudden
pulmonary complaints to which children are
liable. Taken in the early stages of consump-
Mon, it often cures that disease and always
checks its progress; and even at a later period
in the malady, it relieves the distressing cough
and induces needful repose. A safe, palatable,
and economical medicine, Ayer’s Cherry Pecto-
ral should be always at hand in case of an un«
foreseen and sudden emergency.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
ritEPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & C0„ Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Bold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
A pure spirit—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A good bed companion—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
If ill need of a stimulant take Wolfe’s Schnapps,
tyj
EIGHT 4-
(LIMITED)
J"S the most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
Jl Seven Octaves. Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action. Brass
Pin Plate, Cross-strung, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black and Gold or
Walnut Cases.
This Piano is introduced by W 11. PALING & CO., Limited, for the
, purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost even' household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a hrsticlass Piano at a price heretofore
«« I paid for a much inferior instrument. 4
f-~ , Ungth4‘-TlO- CJepth I £
If out of sorts try Wolfe’s Schnapps;
Ask for Wolfe’s Schnapps and take no oilier.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—for the liver and kidneys.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—the ladies appreciate it.
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the purest spirit procurable.
The Assam Blend has stood the test of TO years.
If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—popularity increases yearly.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Tlie to 3F B or'tta.:n.e !
Experience teaches us that one of the safest investments to be got is land close to large centres
of population, if bought at low rates. Such a chance now presents itself in WESTERN AUS-
TRALIA, and persons buying land there now will reap the same benefits as the early buyers of
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE have done. We have SPLENDID BUILDING SITES at PERTH
from £l5 each, CITY BLOCKS for £25, on very easy terms. Also, ALLOTMENTS and BLOCKS
at ALBANY from £lO each. £1 deposit and a few shillings a week will -meet the payments. All
guaranteed good, level, building land, and a Free Deed to every purchaser. Send for plans to
T. TATE & CO., 278 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. (Interesting Books, with Maps, Views, etc,
Is. each. Send stamps.)
THE CEEEJ3 RATED
EXCEL
ALL OTHERS!
FIRST PRIZES
—ALL
aasa
' Wholesale Depot':
231 CLARENCE-ST
SYDNEY.
Regd .
By Special Appointment to H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES.
Buy Direct
PURE LINENS
AND
Oamasl( Table Line!)
FROM
The Oldest Establishment for Linen in the North of Ireland.
SUPERIOR QUALITY.—IMMENSE SAVING.
“ The celebrated Damask liable Linen from the Royal Manufactory , Ardoyne, stands unrivalled
Our Silk and Linen Tea Cloths and Dinner Table Centres are the lichest things yet produced. Openwork and Fancy
Linen Goods in endless variety. Ladies and Gentlemen furnishing or replenishing should write for Price Lists and
Samples. A Parcel 2-lbs. weight can be sent by Parcel Post for Is. 6d., and for each lb. additional up to 11-lbs.,
9d. per lb. Large Orders forwarded by best and cheapest route.
« ART LINENS.—EMBROIDERY CANVAS.-DRESS CAMBRICS.
Telegrams,
Muror, Belfast.
i MURPHY Sc ORR, Belfast, Ireland.
HERE ARE MANY
I
m
To clean tombstones.
To polish knives.
To clean dishes.
To renew oil-cloth.
To scrub floors.
To whiten marble.
To renovate paint.
To wash out sinks.
To remove rust.
To brighten metals.
To scour bath-tubs.
To scour kettles.
EVERYBODY USES IT.
Dentists to clean false teeth,
Surgeons to polish their instruments.
Confectioners to scour their pans.
Mechanics to brighten their tools.
Cooks to clean the kitchen sink.
Painters to clean off surfaces.
Engineers to clean parts of machines.
Ministers to renovate old chapels.
Sextons to clean the tombstones.
Hostlers on brasses and white horses.
Artists to clean their palattes.
Wheelman to clean bicycles.
Housemaids to scrub marble floors.
Chemists to remove some stains.
Carvers to eharpen their knives.
Shrewd ones to scour old straw batfl
Soldiers to brighten their arms.
Renovators to clean carnets, '
EVERY ONE FINDS A NEW USE,
BOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS,
Wolfe’s Schnapps—lt is errand.
Mind you get Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Known Throughout Ihs World.
BRITISH
ARGOSY
BRACES,
*
A Lasting Favourite with all Wearers-
Patentees is Sole Manufacturer* fur Great Britain
and the CvUnics,
ZBlejOLlsiron «Sz Son,
123 WOOD STREET, LONDON.
COWPASTTOE FARMS.
3-0 for £65.
Five Years’ Terms. Only S 3 Miles from Sydney.
SOIL, RICH CHOCOLATE LOAM.
Church, I’ublic School, and Post-office. Inspection invited.
Plans and pamphlets post free.
BOYD & KING,
29 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
11l
?SI
K
DOUBLE PRESSED FACIKG- BRICKS.
T'HE LAND CO. of AUSTRALASIA, Ltd., is prepared
to accept orders for an unlimited quantity of Ordi-
nary and Plastic Building- Bricks, Sewer Bricks, and
Double-pressed White, Light Brown, Dark Brown and
Golden Brown Facing Bricks. Architects and Builders
who favour us with orders for Double-pressed Bricks need
not fear delay, as we keep a large stock. Other Brick-
makers supplied. A. H. CODLINGS, Works Manager,
Gore Hill, North Shore.
ROYAL HYDE PARK HOTEL,
BATHURST AND ELIZABETH STREETS,
(Opposite Hyde Park) SYDNEY.
Superior Accommodation. Private Apartments , Ac.
All Trams Stop at Door.
MICHAEL SHALYEY, Sen PROPRIETOR.
When DOCTORS fail to relieve or Cure you Consult
Personally or by Letter
PROFESSOR G. W. GIBSOrt,
Medical Herbalist,
137 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Pamphlet, startling disclosures, Free on receipt
of 2d. postage stamp.
WE beg to draw the attention of the Public
to our choice and well-selected Stock of
ifll
2*
-J((
a
V
SIPPEL BROTHERS,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
520 and 496 George Street, Sydney
(|®” The Trade Supplied.)
United Service Club Hotel,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
Most Popular Commercial and Family Hotel
Sample Rooms a Speciality.
CLOSE TO ALL PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
S,. PHILLIPS
Proprietress
Sydney Daily Telegraph : —
Such rights as the masses of any country now possess
have been wrung from reluctant rulers by the constitu-
tional force of majorities after incessant struggle.
This argument evidently rests on theD.T.’s inter-
pretation of the word “constitutional.” Was the
force used by the Magna Charta barons “con-
stitutional?” If so, why hound down the Queens-
land shearers ? Was the Cromwell interregnum
“ constitutional ?” Why, then, execrate the mild
rebellion in the Northern colony? Was the in-
dependence of the United States gained by “ con-
stitutional force?” Yes; by the constitutional
force of unconstitutional but successful rebellion
against despotism. All successful rebellions arc
“constitutional”—after they have succeeded.
Haddon Chambers, we are told by a man
just from England, lives in “slap-up” style in
Clanricarde Gardens, Bayswater. He is as full
of “orders’’for plays as possible, having two in
hand for America and two for London —one for
Mr. John Wood, and the other probably for Tom
Thorne, of the Vaudeville. He is the parent of a
fine baby girl {not a boy, as reported), named
Marjorie. He has entirely ceased to write tales
for the magazines, “ as they don’t pay, anyhow ”
—The Bulletin, by the way, was never much
struck with Haddon C. as a story-writer. His
first literary start in London was with a short
Anglo-Australian story called “Outwitted,” pub-
lished in Society in March, 1884.
There was a breach of promise case on
recently in Christchurch (Maoriland), and, judging
from the evidence, the plaintiff had drivelled more
to the defendant, and the defendant had been
more helplessly maudlin with regard to the
plaintiff, than even the average of their kind.
But when the defendant stated that the plaintiff
had declared “ it would be joy even to faint at
his feet ” the court stopped to laugh. The court
always does laugh on such solemn occasions. Once
when the present writer was a good deal younger
and more attractive than he is now, and when he
had more hair and 100 per cent, less spectacles, a
love-sick maiden told him that even to have fits on
his sideboard would do something to relieve the
pains of unrequited affection that troubled her
weary heart, and most likely if that fact had oonu
before a court, it would have laughed, too. Why
should love’s bright dream be held up to scorn
before a judge and sold for 6s. 8d., and wherefore
are the tenderest emotions of the human soul
dragged before a bench and labelled “ Exhibit A ?’’
In the prisons of Macedonia, when a
convict persistently breaks the gaol regulations,
he is fastened down naked on the floor, and fifty
large ants are shaken out of a bag on top of him.
Then he and the ants are left together for an hour
or more, and at the end of that time he is allowed
to shake the insects off and go back to his work.
The English paper which reports this painful cir-
cumstance feels shocked at the barbarity of the
unspeakable Turk. In an English prison, under
similar conditions, they would humanely flog the
convict till he was nearly insensible and partially
skinned alive; and then he would be sent to the
hospital till his hide grew again; and a pious
Britain naturally feels disgusted at the “ tortures”
applied by the Ottoman gaoler. The great soul of
England is a whale in the matter of sympathy.
One of the saddest stories we remember is that of
a British working-man who broke most of his
wife’s ribs and kicked her teeth down her throat,
because she hadn’t got his supper ready when he
came back from a meeting where they had been
denouncing the Bavarian “atrocities.”
“What town is this?” “Nyngan.”
“ Does anybody live here ? ” “ Rather ! It is the
centre of the real life and intelligence' of N.S.
Wales.” “Is that dilapidated barn there, with
the scoopy roof and the bag-stuffed window-holes,
the Moated Grange ? ” “ That, sir, is the Nyngan
Court-house, where the great palladium of the
people is centred and enshrined.” “Is it mag-
nificently furnished?” “You bet it is. It
possesses three chairs —one for the magistracy,
one for the bar, and one for the press—besides a
dozen broken ones piled up in a corner.” “ How
did they get broken?” “In fair legal fight.”
“ Do you decorate the Court-house on great occa-
sions?” “Oh, yes; and when Nyngan is pro-
claimed the Federal Capital, we are going to
decorate it -with repairs, and new chairs, and,
maybe, panes of glass and a form and a table and
an inkpot, out of the first Federal Judicature
Vote.” “Thank you. And now show me the
shortest route out of this magnificent city.”
How to Grow Rich. —Invest in land at Perth,
W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co.,
Limited, 96 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
Until lately an Australian official Gazette
used to offer so much a head for dingo’s tails.
Our old friend, Giovanni Sala, late of the
Oaloola, Cowflat marble quarries, is at it again.
This time at Los Angeles, in California, where he
has just discovered a petrified man near Fresno,
who, judged from the description, is own brother
to the marble gentleman that drew in so many
shillings in Sydney.
A word on a faded photo. That of the
Victorian cricketers in Sydney, 1859, now draws
much attention in Melbourne. There is only
one survivor of the team, Thornton, who lives at
Camperdown, but rarely misses an “Inter-
colonial ” match. On the other hand, four mem-
bers are alive of the N.S.W, team in 1859.
Sir Thomas Elder’s exploring expedition
will advance into the Northern Territory by a
route between Warburton’s (1873) and Gregory’s
(1850). This will take the party into a tract of
unexplored country between Tennant’s Creek and
the West Australian boundary, and in which
there is thought to be a faint hope of finding relics
of Leichhardt.
“Hi hobjec to Aldevmine Bungstarter
makin sotty-voshy remarks while Hi’m speakin,”
said a Sydney suburban alderman the other day.
“Sotty-wotty ?” said the interruptive and in-
quisitive Bungstarter. “There 'e goes agin,”
said the illused alderman. “ Mr. May re, I de-
mand your protecksliun ; I don’t purtend to be no
French soholard, but Hi can talk English with
Bungstarter or any other man in this council, and
for two pins etc.
‘ ‘ But for sailors Australia would not now
be happy and prosperous,” pipes Lord Hopetoun.
This statement had better be referred to a select
Board of aborigines for approval.
Chicago Millionaii’e Lathrop left £2000
last February for a 75ft.-high elm to be moved
12 miles, and put over his body, and they did it.
“ He used to sit under the elm, and now it sits on
him.”
In Hongkong purchases are not often
made with ready cash. The vogue there is to give
a signed order and await the end of the month.
The month’s total can, if necessary, be “paid” by
giving a fresh “chit ’for the lot and tearing up
the other evidences. This explains the yarn about
the Chinaman who, being pressed by his banker
to reduce his over-draft, replied blandly : “All li;
givee blankee cheque, me payee off ovadlaft.”
Black and White, the new rival to the
Graphic and Illustrated London News, is out.
It is a charming paper, but, we fear, too high-
toned for a world in which people live on beef
and beer.
“Blue-ribbon” Clark, Mayor of Brisbane,
declares that, during 22 minutes on a recent Sun-
day morning, he counted 110 men as they entered
a Brisbane pub. That means £1 9s. at the very
least, if the Blue-ribbouman didn’t see multi-
nularly.
A wire from the North states that not one
of the arrested shearers had a penny on him.
Very likely, indeed. The'shearer is not the man
who years ago collared all the beautiful North
Western country for an old song, worked it with
cheap labour and made his immortal pile.
Sherman’s march to the sea, over 300
miles, was accomplished, by the 100,000 men who
composed his force, in 23 days. Wherever he
passed, slavery vanished, and at length the
Federal troops had in their rear from three to four
hundred thousand negroes.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
w
f/
3?
EUREKA
MS
ELECTRIC
3ELT^
iv
■CSG
m
/*
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
onwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. J ains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves What we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
tails!, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Bore 916, Q. P. 0., Sydney.
VIGOR
FOR MEN.
Loss of Nervo Force.
Debility arid Decay
3STIDISDJ
nijf be perfectly regained by the CA.V
treatment'.' 1 One &ox, 12s. 6d„
full Course, £l. Treatise sent eealed, 4 Stamps.
addjeaa-The CAVENDISH LABORATORY.
aaCU Kfi nnsssi.t. STREET. MELBOURNE. VIC.
LIT ATE D
DEB
WEAK AND
NERVOUS
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Skin
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise
HOME CUKE. Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
dfty
Its causes. S’. mptonis, and patho-
-- gy. t gether with a descr ption
a NEW and SUCCESSFUL METHOD of TREAT-
MENT WITHOUT OPERATION. Tost five, two
stamps
PROFESSOR CARL STINEWAY,
21 ELIZABETH ST , MELBOURNE, VIC
“Throw Physic
to th.
I”
1
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
professor*
MINIATURE
ALLEN’S
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by-
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy lor
nearly all tire ailments mankind is heir to. The effi-
cacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century,'
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
a constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
strengthening the Nerves,Jßrain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments:—
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Ulcers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility, Impotence, Liver Com-
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Bronchitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use.
Price SMILJLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by ail Chemists
and Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 254
Elizabeth St,, Melbourne.
BURROUGHS & WATTS,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Every description in Stock. ***
Large Assortment of Lawn Tennis Goods.
Oiir 10s. (>d fane Handle frlekct Hals
a speciality.
Lacrosse, Football, and Materials for other
Games always in Stock.
BUEEOUGHES & WATTS,
& :Bc»mlc3L street, 33rca.3ta.03r
ARTHUR N. WALCOT,
CONVEYANCER, &c.
Loans on Mortgage of Freehold and Leasehold
Estates. International Patents.
Australasian Trade Marks and Copyrights.
Tie Sydney, Country and Intercolonial Law Agency.
\ OFFICES;
QUEENSLAND CHAMBERS, BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beechaxn’s Pills
&
%
PATENT
PILLS
4>
Ik
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tivcncss, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
rills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECIIAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of 'all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
wffiole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” tes ifled
continually hy members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in. general, Asthma, Bronchia,’.
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecuam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beecham, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each.—Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions arc given with each box.
CD
a.
CL
DO
«V*
cr
CD
/
V
j
I
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,'
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gold, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhea, Specks, before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Aarlcocclc.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. _ The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Gael Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtniy.
Address all eommunicatmns to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 617, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price One Shilling.
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. 6d., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. >. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... *. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can bo ascertained on
application.
N. E. GIBLIN, Manager.
|3P~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur*
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four' Weeks by the use of
o® R * CORD*
. i ft-
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
*nd unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's Essence of Life restores manhood to the most
shattered and debilitated constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
In cases of ns., or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra . Pamphlets free on receipt ofstamped addressed envelope ;
Agents for Australasia—Perry & Co. , 73 Gertrude Street,
titzroy, Melbourne.
Agents forN.S. Wales—W. H. Soul & 00., Pitfc-sfc., Sydney,
IKTERVOUS SUFFERERS, from secret or
In other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMFORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
m
PURITY
CIGARETTES
□ ■
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SYDNEM
IMPORTERS OF ALL THE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
RJcdhih
(
CO
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
Wa
•r**.
.
-
B
S'
• . '■./,
, -WifV |‘| Yj
■3^
62i‘^
MANUFACTURED BY , _
JjM£S CWNNOH J/arLovrSt x
Sold Inj all sAadt'l<i C S&reAi*/>-ero-
Si<‘
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Xaoaa.cfi.esaa. Fasliiojas,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
WHISKY
M.W.S.G5
' SOLD
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agent JAMES MOIR&CO,, 58Margaret-st., Sydney
WILLIAM CAEGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
2s imia-IRlkiiet stbeet,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
C O C O A.
Medical.
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
I KTe. KmELMAm]
OP
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
WRo Xlas Cured
More Cases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
%W ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
Notice.—lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN CERTIFICATE.—One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, ISSS.
To 11. F. Kugelmanx, Esq.
Dear Sir,—This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. I consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity of medicine without it doing me the slightest
good, blit I became worse everyday, wasting away until
I became a perfect skeleton. About February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day,.! became very much alarmed.
Heaving of your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sura. I agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
cr.d of three months I vas taken bad one morning, and
vomited about two pints of blood, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before rne, one of Her Majesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 3SS3.
Peter SurniE, J.p.
Dr. westcott’s amenorrhcea
RILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly _ correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising : 2s. 9d. and 4s, Cd.,
by post 3s; and ss. W. H. SOUL and GO., 190
•Pitt-street, Sydney, Agents.
■TWTOTICE.—W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.


E. SOCIETY.
a MEAU OFFICE! e"7
General manager and actuary
ASSISTANT ACTUARY
SECRETARY .... . . '
PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
D. GARMENT, F.F.A., F.I.A.
ROBERT B. CAMERON.
ASSURE YOUR LIFE IN
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOOIETV.
THE OLDEST, LARGEST, WEALTHIEST, AND MOST PROSPEROUS AUSTRALASIAN LIFE OFFICE.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY IS A PURELY MUTUAL INSTITUTION, governed by
the Policy-holders, local to Australia.
ITS FUNDS, NOW OVER NINE MILLIONS STERLING, ARE INVESTED IN THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES,
under the direction of a BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN EACH C A PIT AT. CITY.
IKT ote Mame and. Address, because
IT IS THE ONLY AUSTRALASIAN LIFE OFFICE WHICH DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The Sanatorium of Queensland!
BLUE MOUNTAIN HOTEL,
HARLAXTON, .TOOWOOMBA.
THE above magnificent Hotel, NOW OPEN,
situated on the S. and W. Railway, 90 miles
from Brisbane, 3000 ft. above sea-level, offers to
those suffering from the enervating influences of
the Australian colonies, most beneficial and health-
restoring ch anges.
Visitors met at Harlaxton platform on receipt
of Telegram. Bridal Suites furnished in a most
recherche manner. Wedding Parties and Tourists
—Speciality.
J. HOLMES ... Proprietor.
Facial Blemishes. — s lSi™f*rS™T
Pimples, Bieakheads, Red Nose, Oilyßkin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Here H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
AddressHEßß H. SALOMON, Post Office,- Auckland,
New Zealand.
Tasmania. Messrs, eitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “ A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Free P^rescriptiosas
Are to be found in the “Light ami Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
tyjf
SI
3
Oitb
S:
m
m
ii /
m
m
tyjf
everywhere
THE GENUINE
Jaeger Trade Mark.
«S«w
srahP>
Caution.
No goods without this
trademark are guaranteed
by Dr. Jaeger as pure or
in accordance with his
system.
These goods may now
be obtained at all high-
class Drapery Establish-
ments since ihe London Jaeger Company has
opened an Australian Branch. Wholesale only.
THE
UTUAL
Life Insurance Oompany of New York
4- M<4&
Statement for the year ending 31st December, 1890.
Assets
Reserve on Policies at 4 per cent, ..
Liabilities other than Reserve
Surplus
Receipts from all sources
Payments to Policy-holders
Risks assumed 49,183 policies
Risks in force 206,055 policies
£30,657,233 IX 8
The Assets are Invested as Follows s
Real Estate and Bond and Mortgage Loans
United States Bands and other Securities
Loans on Collateral Securities
Cash in Bank; and Trust Companies at interest
Interest accrued. Premiums deferred, etc
£15,943,589 18 10
10,689,923 4 9
1,796,750 0 0
740,925 6 8
1.486,095 1 5
£30,657,283 11 8
I have carefully examined the foregoing statement and find the same to be correct.
A. N. WATERHOUSE, Auditor.
From the Surplus above stated a dividend will be apportioned as usual.
Business for 1890 shows Increase over that of 1889 as follows
In Assets
In Reserve on Policies and Surplus ..
In Receipts
In Payments to Policy Holders
In Risks assumed .. .. 4,611 policies
In Risks in force .. .. 23,745 policies
£2,240,340 4 11
2,193,769 3 1
804,116 9 S
369,289 13 8
1,954,896 5 10
15,057,694 0 6
Year
Risks
Assumed.
Risks Payments to • , a
Outstanding. Policy-holders. uecemra.
1884 £7,225,290 £73 289,434... £2,900,637 19 2 £3.978,191 6
1.885.. 9,688,987 76,871,134 3,000,427 1 3 4,211,448 16
1886.. 11.840.150 92,043,584 2,735,229 18 11 4,403,578 9
1887.. 470.306 89,089,361 2,943,421 11 8 4,816,650 10
1888.. J 21,502,971 100,442,747 3,068,239 12 7 5,461,652 12
1889.. 117,906,236 3,166,793 8 3 6,483,129 1
1890.. 33.538.747 132,963,930 3,536,083 6 11 7,287,245 11
New York, Jan. 18th, 1891.
..£21.640,871
..,.22.689,368.
....23’7^7,90S
~..24,751,427
....26,267,115
....28,416,943
....30,657,284
jak.-o.stl2ra.lia.aca. Department s
Principal Agency: 131 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager.
R. L. FAITHFUL, M.D., L.R.C.P., Chief Medical Referee.
HON. W H. PIGOTT, M.L.0., Legal Adviser.
VICTORIAN BRANCH.
446 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
R. T. Booth, Manager.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH.
131 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Alex. Mac Knight, Manager.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH.
223 Qneens-st., Brisbane.
W. H. Kelynaek, Manager.
J. EL Sailer & dc
IMPORTERS OP'
€[<is t%mi[ciiEPS Sittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS’ MATERIALS,
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVEL
Of Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
drwKi
wm\
i
’LANA
JULB
)RAN
M
H AM
HAM PA
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOS lE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
433 Bonrke Street, Salisbury Building*,
MELBOURNE,
N
OW READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.’
Price, Is. All Agents and Booksellers,
BOIsIaIMGER’S CHAMPAGNE.
UDIRNT —EZTEA QUALITY.
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BORIN'S BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THIS BEST.
Otto Sandler <Ss Co., 336 Klexit-st., Sytiliey,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
Huutiuuton Will.
Hunv. ;(-!>' fi itia«|i»
PARKE & LACY CO.,
, MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
W
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., «Szc., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
S'VIOIMIHI'Y, 3V.S.W.
And SAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kock Breakers.
Wostliifflionso Engine?.
