

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A TOCKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES
the best in the market
AMD SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
ROBERTS’ HOTEL,
George and Market Streets, SYDNEY*
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
For A-partmeuts, Address, “ Manager.”
ó
ALTED COCOA.
PW
XA»l2»*
?6ltaoEN|
Tj»UNHGtfcC* c
fl£77rv**lG>
OOSTOM_-
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
-FOB-
LADIES' AND CHILDREN'S
BOOTS AND SHOES.
Awarded highest honors at
Phila., 1876
Berlin, 1877
Pari*, 1878
Melbourne, 1880
Frankfort, 1881
Amsterd’m 1883
New Orleans, 1884-85, and wherever
exhibited.
Paris medal on every bottle.
Beware of Imitations.
This Blacking is in liquid form and is applied to shoes
or other articles of leather by means of a sponge, attached
to the cork by a wire, so that the blacking can be Used by
anyone without soiling the fingers. No polishing brush
is required. It dries immediately after being applied, and
will not soil the most delicate clothing.
Sold largely in Australia through Commission Merchants
and Dealers.
B. F. BROWN to CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MT’gs.
- <
- ..J J
£a a><
'•a* ■ 'Ot
ts
o£S
Sx£
'
r.SeJ«*£y
ms
HIM
The Oxford. Hotel, Klixxg Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Peopeietok.
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAiS.
O. DESNEUX ... PROPRIETOR.
TABLE D’HOTE PASISIENNE, 2s. 6d.
(Wire Included).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
Being in close proximity to the leading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Dinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for PARTIES up to FIFTY.
Service a la carte Daily from S a.m. till 11 p.m.
OPEN ON SUNDAYS.
Dinners from 3s. 6d. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes' Notibd.
&
■A
POINTS OP SUPERIORITY.
1. —Steel drag bar, in place of cast iron, relieves
all strain on main frame.
2. —Side draught obviated by draught rod being
adjustable on drag bar.
3. —All complicated gear replaced by one bevel
wheel, one pinion.
4. —Knife can be drawn by removal of one colter.
5. —Machine will start on dead centre without back-
ing horses in heaviest crops.
ò
Prizes Won* 1890 \
Queanbeyan, First.
Jerilderie „
Wagga, First.
Hay „
{ Prizes Won* 1090
HOWARD STEEL ORIENT MOWER.
HOWABD 7 S
Hioward’s Anglo American Xlakes.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Tile Mirtml “'VZ,T
RICHARD A. McOURDY, President.
THE LARGEST, BEST, %MQ MOST POPULAR
Insurance Company in the world.
Assets, January Ist, 1891 ... ... £30,657,283 11 8
New Business in 1890 ... ... £33,538,710 19 11
Annual Income £7,287,245 11 3
PURELY MUTUAL, MO STOCKHOLDERS
No other company has shown results so Profitable and Gratifying to
Policy-holders.
Its Policies are the MOST LIBERAL AND
DESIRABLE ISSUED.
It has paid Policy-holders since organization, £63,469,822 OS. 7d.
The Twenty-Years' Distribution Policy
Issued hy the Mutual Life Insurance Company is a MODEL CONTE ACT
The Company’s Policies are now held by 206,055 members.
Principal Agency in Australia, 131 Pitt St., Sydney
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager. . .
VICTORIAN BRANCH:
446 Collins St., Melbourne
K. T. BOOTH, Manager.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
131 Pitt St., Sydney
A. MAC KNIGHT, Managhr.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH:
223 Queen Street, Brisbane
W. H. KELYNACK, Mana«ir.
The Bulletin
Vol. 11—No. 589. j
[Saturday, May 30, 1891.


ô
Rowland’s
Macassar
Oil
Ba si been Known yoarß'aß the oest ptesefve*
and fbeami tier of the hair t it-prevents it falling off o#.
turning grey c-ri3'' > 'iveak hair,® and eradicates
eourl and dandruff; it is unsurpassed as a briUiamlne
for the heard and moustaches, t« which U loiparta’a'
Stf/t ad 1 silky appearance ; it is also sold in a goideii
colour for tair-haired children.!'-* *
---- *
rn m w— mr — 1 iißinim
Rowland’s
Kalydor
•redo thing and emollient milk tor the fade,-and is oi<n»
tooling to the eltln th hot climatgg; it removes treoktea?
t«n, < and redness of .«the shin, 4
pimples, cutaneous eruptions,"die.', and produces soft
fair skin, and ft lovely delicate complexion.
ROWLAND’S ESSENCE' harmless' prep aratfata
(or dyeing red or grey .hair a‘ permanent brown
black. SAfiklchenußts „ and druggists for Howland's
articles.\ v [~ _t. __ .
m
yflie extraordinary reputation of Rowland's Macaasa*
011, Kalydor and Odonto, induces some shopkeepers to
offer spurious imitations under the lure of being cheap- 1
the principle on which each is prepared is confined
widely to the knowledge of A; Rowland & Sons, of 20.
[Hatton Garden, London; had-therefore it is highly
iuecessary to bay no Macassar Oil. Kalydor or Odonto
except those made by them,end; which
name in red ink on the wrappers.
-- —jib irM-|>
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
srrnu’p
IUUUIlJ
HISKV
SOLD
; 9TMW
EVERYWHERE
Sole Agent JAMES MOIR & 00., 58 Margaret-st., Sydney
KMlliams’s Australian
Yeast Powder.
IS THE ONLY PERFECT SUBSTITUTE FOR YEAST,
j : y
Bread, Tgsl Cakes, Pastry, &c s
ARE
Light, Wholesome and Digestible
WHEN MADE WITH
Williams’ Australian Yeast Powder.
FOR THE TOWN, THE BUSH, AND THE SEA.
Beware of Worthless Imitations. Sold in Tins at 6d. the Half-Pound
LEA
SAUCE
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
a.
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <$ Blackwell, London, sc., fyc.;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— The Sydney Bulletin.
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
CHEAP ARTESIAN WELLS
Sunk at a quarter of the usual cost by the combined
Hydraulic and Pole-Tool Processes.
A SIX-INOH WELL, 529 ft. deep, has been sunk and
cased in eight hours, and 100 ft. in forty minutes, by
the Hydraulic Process. A 1000 ft. Plant, with Derrick,
Steam-engine, and Boiler, for £3OO. Can be run by any
intelligent man. Lighter Plants from £lOO up. We pub-
lish a Treatise on Well-Sinking, with Illustrations, whiob
we will send you prepaid for Is. THE AMERICAN
WELL WORKS, Box 799, G.P.0., Sydney.
o
E. G. GOERTZ
(Member Brisbane Stock Exchange),
STOCK & SHARE BROKER,
178 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
M
1 - V
R.axxcL Rock Drills.
JjJERVE
or PHYSICAL FORCE
WHEN LOST,
QUICKLY REGAINED
Consulting R. J. POULTON Chemist,
77 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE,
Who. after intense study and deep research, has
lately discovered a New, Extraordinary, Quick,
Certain and Inexpensive Cure for Diseases- of the
Brain and Deranged Functions of the Nervous
System. Consult personally or by letter.
For Itching,
Eczema,
finofo
Insect Bites,
Eruptions, &c.
Pot acne spots on the face, and particularly for eczema, it is undoubtedly efficacious, frequently
healing eruptions and removing pimples in a few days. It relieves itching at once —The Baby.
6*
fiiialra
“ Of unqiiestionableexcellence, and much in favour with the profession.”— British Medical Journal
An ideal soap, delightfully perfumed,” —Chemist and Druggist.
Dmalfei | mxrder*
“ ‘ Vinolia ’Powder is an impalpable rose dusting powder, soluble, of remarkable fineness, and well
adapted for the nursery, toilet, • weeping' surfaces, and sweating feet."—British Medical Journal.
Agents—ELLIOTT BROS. & 00., Australian Drug Store, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
“.A. C3-OLI3EIT SH^-ZSTT'^r 33
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIN" Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.


Medical.
ools: of 3NTatnre.
ò
Book of Matvire.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
post!/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should !)■>, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &0., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmasi ,r, or How to
Educate One's Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price ]/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
For Mosquito Bites
?TE E * TRACrr
■&<<<>
If''/fit
For Bad Eyes Use
Our EucalypteVictory
OINTMENT
For Con sumption use
pf£
fy#
u
■ V
(r x
P
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD)
It is the only known cure for Asthma, Consump-
tion, Bronchitis, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra
m
&
MU////
7A
Q
9
(85
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
r i<t »"d SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
iicial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSS. By Post Ss. Gd.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
A
golden
SHANTY.
TRICE : ONE SHILLING.
“ Gr OLDEN SHANTY”
A literary treat for Australians abroad, and for absent friends
of Australian readers of The Bulletin.
fAiili mm
i ; <
A, \
:■:/ i 1
m
s.'ii
*
ft
22
<l. 1
//
m
:
a na
m
m
m
m
A
■
-■
r
i
s#k
ii
ARREST OF THE DOWN STROKE.
Little Pemberton fas the slipper is about to descend) : Alt, Mama, did you notice that great
bargain sale at Hordern’s in Pittstreet to-morrow ?
G. H. SMITH & SOKT,
302 George Street, SYDNEY.
HAT MANUFACTURERS.
Sole Agent for Henry Heath, London.
£lOO,OOO CAPITAL; £lOO,OOO
HEAD OFFICE;
MERCANTILE MUTUAL CHAMBERS
118 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
-4 C
cicl
e at
&
Co
*•*4.
This Company is
prepared to receive proposals for
all classes of Accident Insurance; also
under the Employer’s Liability Act, Public
Risk, Workmen’s Insurance and Common Law. —
11. GRAYSON CROSSLY, General Manager.
Victorian Branch: 323 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
•f A
BROKEN -HILL.
ISTOW OIPIEISr I
-A..J.0. 'Winter Stakes. Randwick, 13th June, 1891.
5000 AT 5 each;
Caulfield. Cnp. 17th October, 1891.
10.000 AT 5 EACH.
M! elb ourne Cup. 3rd November, 1891.
50.000 AT 10 EACH.
All Accounts PAID day after. Less 10 per cent.
My Queen’s Birthday Cup of 20,000 at 5 each (Hied long before the race, and paid the full amount, which showed
that I paid 1000 more for 5 than others did for 10. Why ? Because others did not get theirs quarter-full. lam the
only Promoter in Queensland that got a sweep full, Ask your hankers, they must know, because my cheques pass
through hanks in all parts of the colonies, Send for circulars, etc., giving all particulars.
Adhress : Fred. JSSk.. Bruce, c.m; oe “THE UNITED AID BANK,"
115 & 117 Queen Street, Brisbane, QUEENSLAND.
Medical.
Dr. RICUAR.DS.
The now ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, 1' •.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome b .*
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34: COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY,
I <urlll'l
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourabl y-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleg j i
and hospitals of Europe, He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly inveß i-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources an I
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the sure
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification i
combined with unswerving faithfulness to Id i
patients, he has during his practice, extendi:i ;
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-dcservc I
pre-eminence in their treatment. J 1 is practicj
embraces diseases which probably cause more u i
happiness than any other class of troubles Lh.i;
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of eaxdy follies, Iran )■
gressions or excesses of more nature age, b.ad.u-r
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment i i
the water, accompanied by slight burning
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness durin g
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddine.-i ,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eye*,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pain)
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dream •,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impur >
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hackin »
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in
sanity and death, should consult him, for he bn;
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of Gd. i i
stamps he will send secure from observation in i
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and p\ -
manently without unnecessary expcnce. Th\i
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you bo perfectly well its general inform-
lion and prescription may assist you in restorin'
some poor friend to health oven after his case luu
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He wi I
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will bo found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
l)r. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has'successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.


HOLDSWORTH. MCPHERSON & CO.,
254 & 256 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OOOIECHrsTGr *Sz BEEA.TIKTG-
/r IN NEWEST DESIGNS. - “
WITH THE LATEST * IMFMOVBME3XTXS.
THE
"PARRAMATTA'
STOVE.
A SPECIALITY !
o
Efeafeags
Suitable for WOOD or
COAL, having an adjustable
Fii’e-ißox, easily cleaned
and drop-door.
The Oven-door opens from
the fire, and the Oven is so
constructed to ensure quick
and even heating, with small
consumption of fuel.
as
To be bad of all Ironmongers and Storekeepers.
BUTCHERS’ REQUISITES.
Sausage Machines and Fillers.
SCALES, CHOPPERS, CLEAVERS.
SALTING PUMPS, &o.
Netting*
Sheep Shears, Fencing' Wire, E&abbit-proof
4-
-*v
o
O
t*'
a
ò
>5
v-
“c£-
o
C®
4s:
Robertson’s W H|SKY -
Drummer Stout.
all leading hotels.
Registered gilver Grlit, OP Pile Cure,
» o>
o
a Hill I ■' n«»is.s»
Trade Mark
Is the recipe of a celeoratcd German
physician. This specific for Piles is a
Sure and Safe Cure. Testimonials
from all parts of the Colonies.
Price, 2s. 6d. per Jar ; by Post 3s.
The Testimonials are a proof of the
effectiveness of the Cure, which will be
forwarded with each Jar.
To be bad at Leading Druggists—
Messrs. 'Washington Soul’s, Austra-
lian Drug Co., Elliott Bros. Chemists,
Marsilall, 3C Park-st., and others.
Apply- JOHN POPE.
Care of Harrison & Co.,
191 Castlbreagii Street.
A
G O L 1) E N
PRICE—ONE
S II A N T Y.
SHILLING.
Everybody Should Read
A GOLDEN SHANTY.
ni=»K=j«i
Australian Stories and Sketches in Prose and Verso,
— iby —
“Bulletin” "W r iters.
_):(
Handsome CLOTH BINDING, 2s, Gd., Post Paid.
Dr-SPEER
29 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
P.O. Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
physician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
Governments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 10
years to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit ,£2OO. His vast experience
tells him that whore there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. .He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.m. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 pm.
Nervous Deloility.
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS AND
SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion, tor his many
years of practice with this dreadful disease enables him
to remove all traces of it and to return the victims to full
VIGOUR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS:
1. —AMERICAN “VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes,
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3. —“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his—A., Extremely
Moderate Charges ; 11., Effectual and Rapid Treatment;
C., Absolute and Permanent Cure
o .s*-
ó
Ewing*’s Indelible
Marking 1 Ink.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and Patronised n Vice-Royalty and
the Elite ok tub Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist - ‘I have examined Ewing’s Indelible Mai king Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wash out.
It may be well recommended. —Signed, Wm. J oiinston.”
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers. In cases, Is. Proprietor, T. A. 1 wi - r j,
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brnnswick-strect, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE:
D
h
A
THE f AMOUs OiD
ô
Bass’ Pale Ale
I'!A ,
'’J.'
Quinneßß’ Extra Stout
FOSTER'S ALE r.nl STOUT
AUK GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PUKE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
STRATTON’S HOTEL, COWPER STREET, WAVERLET.
0. F. Stratton ... ... Pkoi’kiktok.
A Second Edition of “ The Bulletin’s ”
History of Botany Bay ” will be shortly issued.


Musical.
BEAD THIS CAREFULLY J—Revolution in the
Music Trade !!! —For cash or on time payments, 700
Violins, from Ss lid to £25 ; 550 Accordeons, from 3s Cd
to £3;’120 Banjos, from 2s to £10; Zithers, from 21s;
Mandolines, from 255; Guitars, from 7s 6d; Cornets,
80s to £3O ; Flageolets ; Flutes, from Gd ; Drums ; Anglo
and English Concertinas, from 25s ; German Concertinas,
from 2s lid ; Nigger Bones, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Double
Basses, Brass Bands, String Bands complete, Pianos,
Organs, Comic Song Books. New Music by every mail;
New Waltzes every week ; New Songs by every mail.
Pianos Exchanged and Tuned. Any kind of instrument
thoroughly repaired by experienced English workmen.
Write for full particulars ; the prices will astonish you.
35,010 Songs amt Pieces 3d eaeli.
HOWA.III2 <Ss CO.,
OCEAN STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY.
p&"’ Agents Wanted; Good Commission Paid for
Good Business.
MUSICAL.
Pianoforte Pupils should buy INGHAM’S PATENT
SCALE INSTRUCTOR to learn scales quickly, 3s. 6d
Note—Anyone would play the most intricate scale with
five minutes instruction.
Ingham’s Improved Piano Vamping Instructor,
Without a knowledge of Music, ss. 6d., posted from
Sydney Arcade, SYDNEY.
Public Companies.
THE
Australian Banking Company
Of SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital, £250,000, in 50,000 Shares of £5 each.
Capital Subscribed, £151,305; Capital Paid-up, £101,757.
Head Office i fill £ Market Streets, Sydney,
Board of Directors:
Francis Abigail. Esa., M.L. A., Chairman ;AId.S.G. Davison,
J.P.; T. H. Hassali, Esq., M.L.A.; William Bub, Esq., J.P.;
Rolit. Cunningham Esq.
Branches :
New South Wales : Goulburn—Auburn Street. C. 11.
Atkinson, Manager. Grafton —Prince Street. James
Brownhill, Manager. Queensland : Brisbane —Queen
Street. W. J. Taylor, Manager.
The Bank transacts all usual banking ousiness in every
particular. Special advantages granted to Commercial
Clients.
The Highest Rates of Interest given for
Fixed Deposits.
Interest allowed on Current Account* calculated on the
Minimum Monthly Balances.
By order of the Board of Directors.
FRANCIS ABIGAIL, Chairman.
April 2, 1891.
Miscellaneous.
Messrs. MAUDE Ik CO.,
Artists in Natural Flowers,
Having engaged a competent Lady Artist from London,
are prepared to place before the public all. the latest
novelties in Floral work. Table decorations for Balls,
Weddings, and Dinner Parties receive special attention
for which our visiting artist may be engaged.
Bouquets, Wreaths, Presentation Baskets, Floral Designs
Sprays, and Buttonholes
are arranged in the latest London style at
*S7ixo ZEaZcsarao of Flowers,
141 King Street, SYDNEY.
Royal Exotic Nurtery, Peakhurst , HurstvUle,
o
CONSULT the Eminent Specialist
DR. SPEER,
29 tore'STREET, SYDNEY
iTLLS GUARANTEED, 10g and £1 per box, post free
p Aq Va
-,<s r o. S
<2, i
tx'om
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
b v V°
°nd street
Beware of imitations . The genuine is si/jaed
THA.DE. MAJlii . JlUou I.LKU
o
COURT HOTEL,
BEAUFORT STREET,
Perth, Western Australia.
J, R. North, Proprietor,
Telephone No. GO.
Metropolitan Kotel,
Edward and Mary Streets, BRISBANE.
Mrs. MOXLEY’S compliments, and calls public
attention to this old-established and popular
; Hotel, which has been thoroughly renovated and
'improved to meet the progress of the times.
Superior Commercial Boom and Silting Rooms.
Tirst Quality Table. £2T Charges Moderate.
.STOUT PEOPLE
CORPUS, BEAN reduces sup. rUuou., liesh
casijy, pleas wily, _ and certainly, without hardship
•*containing advice and full explanation of
method sentin plain envelope on receipt of six stamps.
'Edwin Peck, Box 161 C P.O. MELBOURNE.
The PROVINCIAL BANKIN^™f™ OCIATION '
INTEREST allowed on FIXED DEPOSITS at following rates, viz.:
At Call .. .. 5 per cent, per annum.
Three Months ..6 ~ ~
Six Months .. 7 per cent, per annum.
Twelve Months ..8 ~ ~
Longer terms, sp da arrangements, with a Bonus at maturity if renewed.
A SAVINGS BRANCH is also open in connection with the above Company, and deposits are received and interest
allowed on the daily balance at 5 per cent, per annum.
To Borrowers.- Advances made on Freehold and Leasehold Properties (first and second mortgages), Stock
Mortgages, Scrip, Merchandise, Crops, Machinery, etc. Bills discounted daily. Repayments to suit borrowers.
A. M‘GREGOR, Secretary.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
■’XMxei Briglxtoia of Sovitli Wales.
o
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
' suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
o
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
o
ZESXXjFREIEII>J"S 0 X O IIESJF2. ... Proprietress.
Cold Medal
The
■ ~
f-
ò
Tf: s\
m- 'jw
rts* . '
W£fmm
!*»:; «l v' *
V « wwfi
«mu„i-JJ BH?
Dr. M. PI3HHIT,
M.E.U.S., L.S A , &c.,
SPECIALIST for the Treatment of Nervous
Complaints, Liahetes, Tumors, &c.
Registered by the Medical Bo ir lof N.S. W. Lite House Si.r-
geon to the Great Northern Hospital, Linda »
I am aware that I am not strictly following the paths
of professional etiquette by advertising myself as a
Specialist for the ti eatm'nt of this class of disease, but,
unfortunately for the suffering public in Australia the
apathy shown by Qualified Mon in the treatment of
Chronic anil Nervous Complaints has induced men of the
lowest grade of intellect (whose only qualifications are
unlimited assurance) to spring up, and by specious
advertisements and false promises trap the unwary.
It is very evident that sufferers from these diseases
have been scandalously treated by these unqualified
persons The evidence taken at the Medical Enquiry
held in Sydney (published in the Daily Telegraph, Nov.
6th 7th and 6th. 1890) plainly shows the disgraceful
manner in which patients are duped. Hot only are
they robbed of their money, but what is of infinitely
greater importance, their health is injured also. It is
therefore time that Legally Qualified Men entered the
field to fight these pests of society with their own
weapons, viz., Advertising.
It is utterly impossible for those who are suffering
from the e diseases, who are scattered over all parts of
Australasia, to ascertain which Qualified Practitioner
makes these diseases Ins speciality unless he advertises.
I consider therefore, that by advertising I not o ly
strike a hhno at the Quackery which now exists, but T also add
to the usefulness of my profession and in no tony lessen viy‘
personal dignity ,
My Qualifications I invite the fullest investigation Into. For some CO’ siderablo time I was House >Surgcon to the
Great Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of ol servin ; the many phases of the Nervous a d
Sexua System, and to be ome acquainted with the most scientific methods of effecting their cure.
My sole attention is given to the treatment of these diseases, and when a person consults me he is informed at lie
commencement whether I can effect his cure or not. The patient is not deluded with false and specious promises, an I
if I undertake the case
I Absolutely Guarantee a Complete and Permanent Cure,
My grevt success in tlie treatment of those diseases enables me to give this guarantee without fear.
KUiEitiY mm, *■ !•:», a\b» yoi su jses
Suffering from. Impaired Vitality should send for my Work on Diseases of < lie Reproductive Organs, which, in ndditio / to er.pl niniug
my method of treatment, contains many useful hints as to 'elf Management, the observance of which is of great use to all, and in many
instances is sufficient t > check the progress of di ease. This Rook wifi he forwarded Free on application.
Patients residing at a distance can be treated at their own homes without interruption to their business. Medicines parked and sent
free from observation to nil parts of A n strain sia.
Ynridcelo quickly and permanent’ y cared without operation. Dlahefes an f Tumors treated by a to'ally new method of Cutaneous
Medi.alion. Consultation Hours—From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m, daily (except Sundays); and from 7 to 9pm. on Tuesday and Saturday
evenings. Consultatlo a {either by letter or in person) Free.
Address all Communications
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c., Elmhy Housd, 151 Elizabsth-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
N 15.—T would alvise all persons before consulting specialists to ascertain if they are really Duly Qualified Practi-
tioners, or only advertising fiauds,
MENTION THIS PAPER.
Aarons 5 Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
(..) _
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE Hg|
Posted. several times DAILY in tlie Bull ling.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on thu PREMISES
—jgi
1
*
.•■, . V -
An - ■■ iR.
.
. ,
N...
This .first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Elegant
Hilliard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention tc
visitors. S3T Tariff, IQs. Od. per d(n/. Special Bates for Families.
(..)_
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - Proprietors.
W. VV. AIKKN, Manager (-18 years in the cslahlialmimft
Shipping.
TJNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW
ZEALAND, Limited.
san Francisco royal mail service.
OVERLAND ROUTE TO ENGLAND VIA SAN
FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK,
calling at
AUCKLAND a\d HONOLULU,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea dnd the Cold
of Cape Horn.
Under Contract with the Postmaster-General of New
Zealand, the steamers of this line are appointed to leave
pui'ov a nl uci{lail(l for Honolulu and San Francisco
MEll\ .POUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Steamer
Monowai
Alameda
Mariposa
Kach steamer carries a duly qualified Surgeon.
These steamers are fitted with electric light, and with
a refrigerating chamber for ship’s provisions, ensuring a
plentiful supply of ice throughout the voyage.
Passengers are booked to San Francisco or through to
European destinations, and have at San Francisco choice
of the unrivalled Atlantic Steamship Lines of the Cunard,
Inman, White Star, and other Companies.
All first-class passengers are allowed 3501 b. of baggage
for San Francisco, and 2501 b. “ overland ” free of charge.
THROUGH FARE TO LIVERPOOL,
FIRST-CLASS £63 to £66.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide nooks showing all
other information apply at the Company’s Offices 15
Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
f*OMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
v TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
ó
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
o
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N, B. Passengers’ luggage-
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINES.
STEAM to
Victoria...
/MELBOURNE.
/GEELONG.
South Australia — ADELAIDE.
West Australia
ALBANY.
YASSE.
FREEMANTLE (Perth).
.And all North-west Ports.
Tasmania
f HOBART.
I LAUNCESTON.
The Steamers of this Line are all of modern
construction, built of steel, and embodying the
latest principles in Electric Lighting, Sanitary
Conveniences and Ventilation.
The provedoring is on the most liberal scale,
and carried out by the Company’s own provedore.
*ar FREIGHTS and FARES on all Lines are
very much REDUCED,
For DAYS and HOURS OF SAILING see
daily, papers, or apply at the office, where all
information will be afforded.
Huddari, Parker h Co., limited.
OFFICES and WHARF;
Foot of MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
H UK S’ VICTORIA HOT EL,
U J Auckland, N.Z.,
Still in the hands of the old and well-known proprietor.
Round to no'man. Only the choicest liquors.
Sedimayr s Bavarian “ Spatcn,” ‘'Export”
ami “Talc!” Lager— SPECIALITY.
ROYAL HYDE PARK HOTEL, ‘
BATHURST AND ELIZABETH STREETS,
(Opposite Hyde Park) SYDNEY.
Superior Accommodation. Private Apartments , Ac.
{PIT’ All Trams Stop at Door.
MICHAEL SHALVEY, Skn PROPRIETOR.
Spectacles v. Blindness.
A. P. GREENFIELD,
The only Consulting and Manufacturing Oculist
Optician in Queensland, and Honorary Ophthal-
mic Optician to Brisbane Hospital,
Treasury Buildings (op. Savings Bank), tieorge SI.,
BRISBANE.
Send for Self-Measurement and Pamphlet on the Eye.


Machinery and Implement Manufacturers and Importers.
o
T. B, AND Co.’s Improved STEEL BARTH SCOOPS, on Wheels or Skid.
T. R. and Co.’s HAM-SINKING or ROAD-MAKING PLOUGHS, all
sizes.
T. E. AND Co.’s New DEAIN EOEMEES.
T. E. and Co.’s “ Solway ” Patent TUMBLE-OYEE BOX AYOOL-
PEESS —the Cheapest and Best yet made.
T. E. and Co.’s STEAM, HOESE or HANDPOWEE WOOL-PEESSES
T. E. AND Co.’s HAEYESTING MACHINEEY of every description!.
T. E. AND Co., Ltd., are SOLE AGENTS for the
New Light Steel “ Brantford ” Reaper and Binder.
Address : 407 Sz 409 Ellzatoetlx Street,
MELBOURNE.
& GO.
LIMITED
GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Write for our New Illustrated Sports and Game Price List.
NOTED as being the Best and Cheapest House in Australia for all Sporting Materials. We respectfully direct attention to the fact that we can supply all the necessary requisites for GYMNASTIC
i 1 OALISTHENIC EXERCISES. EVERY SATISFACTION GIVEN. Communications receive prompt and careful attention. Fully-illustrated Sports and Games Trice Eist tor reason
Lawn. Tennis Sets.
HICKORY HORIZONTAL BARS.— 6ft. long, IJin., Ifin., Ifin., l|in., and 2in. thick. Price, 9s. 6d. each.
mm •■inß
-. ■
aafgßMa^»»
g&p«Sfe®BfeS
■
:r.
rs
,-l
No. 1 Set comprises four Racquets, one dozen Balls, Net 42 x 3.1 ft.,
upperior Poles, Lines, Runners, Pegs, Mallet, and Book of Rules. In box
• isjniplete, £3 17s. 6d.
No. 2'comprises four best Racquets, one dozen Tournament Balls, one
42 x 3Jft., two superior Lancewood Poles, Lines, Runners, Pegs,
I i .diet, and Book of Rules. In box complete, £4 15s.
No. 3 Set comprises four best Racquets, two dozen Tournament Balls,,
ope best Machine Tarred Net, two polished superior Lancewood Poles, Lines,
L r ioners, Pegs, polished Mahogany Press, Measuring Tape, Mallet,, and
L ok, of Rules. In box complete, £6 10s.
Write for Illustrated Lawn Tennis Price List for Season 1891.
SINGLE RACQUET
PRESSES,
2/6 each.
MAHOGANY FOR FOUR,
12/6 each.
BOOK OP LAWN TENNIS
RULES, 1/3.
ALL REPAIRS
Executed on the Premises.
Racquets Restrung'.
Ditto Repaired.
ALL ORDERS
receive
Careful and Prompt
Attention.
THE
CAX T O N TENNIS
COURT MARKER,,
Paice, 32/Cj
si m
I J
BOXING GLOVES.
Best Tanned Kid ... ••• 20/- set
Best White Buff ... ... 17/6 „
Best Chamois Leather ... 12/6 , f
aUOITS.-BEST QUALITY STEEL,
41b. to 71b. pair.
12s. 6d. to 265. Set of Four.
WRITE FOR
LAS SETTER’S
WONDERFUL
Gun Catalogue.
Post Free on application.
Dumb Bells.—l/- to 5/6 pair.
r m
■ V. - -
T-
mm
ma
sW
CLOSE SET, Barbs only Sin. apart, 120.4 point.
The Best and Cheapest House in the World for all
FENCING WIRE. GALVANISED IRON, WOOD
LATTICE, etc., etc.
Sole Agents for the
NEW “SCRUTCH” GALVANISED STEEL
j3-a.:ol:b wire.
Will make a Permanent and Indestructible FENCE
that withstands Wind, Fire, Flood, or Trespassers.
Made from genuine Steel Wife, galvanised by an
exclusive patent process, securing great strength and
imperishableness.
Money.
-fIUSTMLMN
nCKCANTILC
INCORPORATED UNDER COMPANIES’ ACT 1§74.,
CAI’ITAI, ... „ .. £500,000 in 109,000 Shares of £5 cncli.
HEAD OFFICE: YOrTV MARKET STREETS,
s'snonxriES'K’.
Loan#Guarantee
Go., Limited.
Branches :
LONDON—IIO CANNON STREET, E.O.
MELBOURNE-283 COLLINS STREET EAST.
BRISBANE—EDWARD and ELIZABETH STREETS.
NEWCASTLE-37 HUNTER STREET.
g. flows, (Esq., M.g.
(Qhairman.
T.onclort Board, of Advice :
LORD ULIOK 11. BROWNE.
HON. J. F. YESEY FITZGERALD.
JOHN HOWARD, Esq.
The Company is prepared to advance money on all classes of approved securities
for a fixed term, or repayable by instalments.
INTEREST ALLOWED ON DEPOSITS:
Twelve Months
Six
Three ..
O per cent.
•7
e
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
The DIVIDEND declared for the year ending 30th June is NOW PAYABLE.
TO INVESTORS.
A limited number of SHARES arc now OFFERED for distribution in the colonies,
payable ss. per share on application, ss. per share on allotment, and the balance as
renaired by calls not exceeding 2s. per share, at intervals of not less than three months.
The whole of the capital derived from calls goes to the Company s credit.
Forms of application, balance sheets and other information can be obtained from the
Head Office of the Company, or at any of the Branches.
A. MILLER, General Manager.
A Golden Shanty.
FREEHOLD INVESTMENT and DEPOSIT BANK,
173 I»itt Street, SYDRTEY
'(:) “
Fixed Deposits received in any surti, and interest payable quarterly, half-yearly, or annually, as under, Viz.;—
12 months, 9' per cent. ; 6 months, 8 per cent. ; 3 months - , 6 per cent.
NOTE.—SPECIAL RATES FOR LONG TERMS.
Depositors for 2', 3 and A years allowed 10 per cent., and a bonus of 1 percent, per annum. Remittances
receivable by cheque and deposit receipt forwarded. Promissory Notes Discounted on deposit deeds.
Advances made on Land and Freehold Property. All correspondence immediately replied to. Usual banking
business conducted by letter to the undersigned; EDWD. A. MORGAN, Secretary.
ò
Best and Cheapest
In the Market.
Silver Plate.
Durable
Duality.
Moderate Prices.
FOSTER & El
Ironmongers, BRISBANE.
WIR I T IB
FOR
prices
AND ALL
Information.


The Bulletin
Voi. 11—No. 589.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, 1891.
Mm,M.
MR. JOHN M'ELHONE GETS READY TO RE-ENTER THE N.S.W. PARLIAMENT.


The Bulletin
He National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
A.T 2i PITTSTREET SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Ilalf-ymrZu*. -. 0 12 6
Quarterly _.O. G. G
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralia:!, subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
SATURDAY, MAY 30, 1891.
Queen Victoria’s Birthday—A Retrospect.
The Queen had a birthday this week, and
there was joy throughout all the great empire
on which the sun never sets, and the darkness
never comes to an end. For though it is the
proudest characteristic of the British monarchy
that the daylight never ceases in its wide
dominions, it is equally characteristic that the
night is also eternal, and Victoria is the only
sovereign on earth who rules over a land of
perpetual midnight. Her Majesty was seventy-
three years of age on that memorable occasion
a few days ago, and the empire whooped—
apparently for no reason than that she was
aged seventy-three—and knocked off work to
celebrate the event. It is difficult to sort-out
the emotions which take possession of the
widely-scattered nation on this annual holiday
—provided there are any emotions at all; and
on the present occasion they were, as usual,
undefinable. Possibly the' people rejoiced
because they had managed to live under
the burden of Her Majesty and Co. for another
year, and went in for a mitigated form of
revelry on that account, just as the man who
has wheeled a barrow-load of iron up a hill
manifests signs of relief when he gets to the
top. Possibly they were glad because Victoria
was another year on the road to the end which
overtakes all monarchs, sooner or later, and
rejoiced as an undertaker does outside the
house of an aged customer, or after the fashion
of a coffin-maker executing a pas seid at the
door of an hospital. It is difficult to suppose
that the great empire was actuated by a spirit
of malevolence and universal cussedness ; and
yet if it rejoiced at all—as we are solemnly
assured it did—it must have done so from one
of these two motives, for, apart from them,
there was nothing whatever to rejoice about.
There is no particular joy in being seventy-
three years of age, even in a palace. At that
period, under the most favourable circum-
stances, there is not very much in life that is
worth living for ; and there is something cold
and grim and bowelless in the idea that three
hundred million people should want to go out
and hold an orgy, merely because their
sovereign is drifting into a toothless and fat
old age. Senile decay is a disease as truly as
consumption or bronchitis or asthma, and the
“ loving subjects ” who would hold a festival
because their monarch was getting very ancient
would as willingly pound on the tuneful lyre if
the same monarch Avere suffering from phthisis
or some other equally incurable complaint.
These are unpleasant reflections, and therefore
it can only be hoped that Victoria’s subjects
forgot all about Victoria’s existence on the
recent holiday, and that they would not wil-
fully vociferate outside the door of any aged
person with a view to reminding that person
that she or he was in the sere and yelloiv leaf,
and had left most of life’s pleasures far behind.
# * #
Unfortunately the “ loyal ” press, in all parts
of the British Empire, keeps up the hollow pre-
tence that Victoria’s “ subjects ” are in a state
of active rejoicing on each succeeding anniver-
sary, and for want of any visible cause of glad-
ness it professes that the holiday is a sign of
general thankfulness, because a great and uni-
versally beloved monarch lias not yet been
snatched away by the hand of Providence.
This is unfortunate, as well as supremely
idiotic. The theory amounts to an assertion
that a vast proportion of the world’s inhabitants
are so filled with happiness that they must let
off'fireworks and hoist banners merely because
their monarch isn’t dead ; it is sufficiently
obvious that there is no such element of thank-
fulness in the human constitution. The world
doesn’t raise an annual dust because its own
aged father has been spared, neither does it put
up banners and decorations because its mother
still holds out; and it doesn’t become hilarious
in honour of the fact that its venerated
grandmother has so far kept up with reason-
able success. It doesn’t even let off rockets
once a year in the back-yard because it is alive
itself ; and if any loyal driveller imagines that
any single individual is more rejoiced because
his monarch is alive than because he is alive
himself, then that driveller is past being
reasoned with. A nation that never dreams of
keeping high festival to celebrate the fact that
it isn’t dead, doesn’t worry itself whether its
monarch is dead or not. To the vast majority
of her subjects Queen Victoria is as far-off and
as impersonal as the Devil, or any other equally
unseen influence, and nobody is at all elated
over the fact that he is keeping healthy and
carrying on business as usual. The nation, in
fact, cares not one individual straw about its
sovereign, and as it cares very little about its
own relatives ; this is not surprising—in fact, it
would be very surprising if it were other-
wise. It cares very little about anything, in
fact, save itself. Its capacity for sympathy
and affection and other gentle emotions' can be
gauged by the records of prize-fights, brutal
assaults, wife-beating, seductions, premeditated
homicides, and nigger massacres, by the misery
and hunger and neglect which fill every city in
the empire, by the hideous tales of thousands of
wretched women who labour at 113, d. per diem
to make the biled shirt and the new tail-coat of
the Christian philanthropist, and by the stories
of the workhouses and gaols, and many similar
evidences. A nation which takes no particular
note of things like these is incapable of raising
any active affection for any monarch, alive or
dead. There is no particular reason why it
should have any affection for a monarch in any
case, but that is a consideration which lies
altogether apart from the present subject.
* * *
If Victoria had been dead last Monday
instead of keeping a birthday the nation would
have mourned in place of rejoicing, but its
mourning and its joy are so much alike that
it is difficult to tell them apart. There were a
few sickly flags hoisted on the royal anniversary
which would otherwise have been replaced by
emblems of rusty black—flags that looked like
red shirts dipped in molasses and garnished
with old horse-flies and hornets. These
w'ere the outward and visible symbols that
revealed how the great heart of the nation
was rejoicing within it, and if the day
had been one of mourning instead of grati-
tude they would not have been visible ; but the
rest of the show would have been much the
same. It was his joy because Victoria was
alive that made the city lout hire a raw-boned,
razor-backed horse from a livery-stable, and
wallop the wretched animal within an inch of
its life, and gallop it frantically over all the
surrounding country; and if he had got a
holiday because Victoria was dead he would
have pounded the same dejected beast in pre-
cisely the same way. It was a similar sentiment
that made another athletic lout hire a boat
instead of a horse, and go blaspheming with
beer-bottles on the water, and running down
other small craft amid general execrations ; and
he would have conducted himself no better and
no worse if his beloved monarch had had a
funeral instead of a birthday. The individual
who drank too much, and then had a free fight
on the pavement, and stamped on a policeman
in honour of Her Majesty’s anniversary, would
have done the same thing at an execution if the
opportunity had been afforded him, and he
would certainly have preferred the execution.
Nor would he have cared very much whose
execution it was, so long as it wasn’t his own.
And as for the rest of the population, some of
them ate more than usual because Victoria
was still alive, and some stayed in bed for the
same reason, and some hung about half-dressed
on the verandah, and smoked and quarrelled,
and some leaned up against a lamp-post in the
excess of their joyfulness ; and they would all
have done just the same things if Victoria had
been no more. Therefore, regarded as an occa-
sion when the Anglo-Saxon people rise up
unanimously and are filled with gladness because
their sovereign isn’t dead, the occasion was a
failure. The nation was as joyful as an aged
pauper on his birthday, and that was about all.
• * *
And yet, when the situation is considered
apart from all political feeling either for or
against royalty, there is hardly a doubt that
the nation would have rejoiced a great deal
more last Monday if Victoria had been dead.
The human race likes somebody to be dead. It
finds a deep and fearful joy in hangings, mur-
ders, dog-fights, and horses that have fallen
down in .the street, and every human being
within a radius of 800 yards will run his hardest
to see the mangled remains of a fellow creature
hauled out from underneath a tram-car. On
these occasions it is full of sympathy and assist-
ance, but yet it is rather pleased, for the sake
of the novel thrill of the situation, that the
victim was squashed by the car, and it gets up
a subscription for his widow, chiefly by .way of
expressing its gratitude for the entertainment
afforded by the deceased in his last moments.
If Victoria had died last Monday, even the
abjectly loyal journalist who fixes up fifteen
colums of tearful slush and biography would
not wish her alive again. He would much
rather lose a valuable potentate than not
have a big sensation for the front page of his
paper, and if he learned just before going to
press that his revered sovereign was still alive,
he would probably fill the office with strong
cuss language because she wasn’t dead. He
would do the same about any other public
character who neglected to be dead under the
same circumstances. As for the public, it
would wear, from sheer force of habit, a certain
appearance of sorrow, so long as it believed the
news to be true, and it would be mad enough to
set fire to the newspaper offices and the tele-
graph department when it found the news was
not true. It would say, of course, that a load
had been lifted off its soul because Victoria
still survived, just as the mob, which rushes
for “ special editions,” would feel a load lifted
off its soul when it got the paper, and found
there was no truth in the report that a promi-
nent citizen had hashed up his whole family
and flayed the cook behind the kitchen-door.
And in each case it would be about as glad as a
man is when he is disembowelled by a reaping-
machine. The nation is loyal—reasonably loyal,
that is—but it hungers after novelty, and there
is no novelty about any prominent individual
being alive, seeing that every prominent indivi-
dual has been alive quite frequently; while
there is a joyous freshness about the same person
being dead, as he has never been dead before.
There is no evidence of personal ill-will in this
sentiment. We are not writing about the
feelings of that advanced section of the com-
munity which throws bombs at monarchs, and
demonstrates in other ways that a coolness
exists between it and the crowned heads of
Europe. The class to which we refer is that
which—either through habit or prejudice or
indifference—passively props up the throne in
every country where there is any throne ; and
even this class would rather that its alleged
royal idol were dead, than that nobody should
be dead at all. For the love of funerals, tomb-
stones, obituaries, and the like, is a deep-rooted
instinct, and even the most intense loyalty
cannot altogether eradicate it.
# # *
The fact that almost every nation will fight,
more or less, for almost any kind of a monarch
is no proof that loyalty is an active sentiment,
except in those who make a material profit out
of it. It is one of the most striking character-
istics of man that he will fight for anybody or
anything, and the Englishman, being a trifle
more bull-headed than the majority of his kind,
will often fight for nothing at all. In every
war which takes place in every part of the
civilised world there are sundry stray Britons
to be found, fighting sometimes for a miserable
pittance and more frequently from mere super-
fluous cussedness ; and when there is not even
a Chinese potentate to fight for, the Briton will
maul his fellow-creature in a prize-ring, or
damage a nigger in Central Africa, rather than
not fight at all ; and failing even this resource,
he will throw a brick at a hen. The so-called
affection of a nation for its sovereign is only a
hollow superstition at the best; it may make
war on behalf of that fetish, and whoop for
him, and worship him, and die for him, andyet
if the object of its adoration fell down and
broke his neck, not one of his subjects would
miss a single meal through grief on his account.
A few tears would doubtless be shed —such
tears as are shed in the gallery to the accom-
paniment of peanuts and ginger-beer when the
stage baronet abducts the stage maiden from
her ’appy ’ome—but these things do not con-
stitute grief. The typical loyalist is merely an
individual who doesn’t care enough about the
next monarch to worry himself about unseating
the present one, and the fact that he will fill
the earth with dust and execration on account
of this shallow sentiment only proves that he is
fond of dust and execration in any case. When
thousands upon thousands of drunkards, homi-
cides, hypocrites and adulterers have fought and
died through century after century in religious
wars, while caring nothing at all about religion,
it is in no way surprising that men should shed
blood and profanity without limit on behalf of
a sovereign in whose existence they take no
interest at all. The British people may be
loyal enough to die for their beloved Queen,
but they are certainly not loyal enough to raise
a decent birthday celebration, and one of the
saddest spectacles on earth is that of a nation
which holds a celebration and yet isn’t able to
celebrate.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Victorian Railways.
The Victorian Government is getting ready an
Act of Parliament for the partial suppression
of Railway-Commissioner Speight. The effect
of this measure, if passed, will be to convert a
gentleman, who might have built for himself a
benevolent despotism upon a firm foundation of
public confidence, into a mere underling of the
Senate. Speight is to be deprived even of the
power to add a special train to the time-table
upon his own responsibility. He will not be
permitted to erect anything bigger than a one-
room station without first putting his idea
before Parliament when it is incubating, or
before the Minister of Railways when members
are off the nest. During about seven months of
the year the Minister will boss Speight, and
during the remaining live months the House
will argue matters out with the Minister. There
will be excited discussions over such national
matters as a cheap excursion to Ballarat, and
fights in the lobby when the country is asked
to decide, through its representatives, whether
a rising suburb requires a more commodious
ticket-office. In fact, the entire meaning
of Speight, as the public understood it
seven years ago, is to suffer a revolution.
Whereas he was imported to overcome poli-
tical influence and manage the railways
on commonplace commercial principles, Premier
David Syme— no, James Munro— now proposes
that political influence shall openly control
Speight. The man is to degenerate into a
largely supervised traffic-manager, pursued by
applicants for free passes, and robbed of every
attribute of greatness save his salary. Should
the railways begin to pay then every member in
the House will paralyse his constituents with
reference to his wise discretion in voting for
more goods-trains, and sitting on royal com-
misions to enquire into the working of the
through express to St. Kilda. But when claims
for compensation come rolling in the senators
will simply snort at their vassal Speight. They
will scramble for the glory, and leave that bald-
headed bon vivant to keep all the accidents for
himself. This projected reversal of the policy
which was inaugurated in ’B4 with a wild
flourish of trumpets doesn’t seem to worry the
people of Victoria, for the reason, perhaps, that
Speight is not now believed in as he was then.
When he used to thump his fist down upon the
table, at an engine-drivers’ dinner, and declare
his intentions to manage the country’s railways
for the country’s good, and to close bis ears to
the voice of the political charmer Speight was
regarded as a great commercial blessing, all
business and no bunkum. When the old, dis-
credited log-rollers began to abate their
vituperations of that “ hexpert from Hingland”
the general sense of security in the Chief Com-
missioner abated likewise. Gradually there
spread whispers of Speight’s undoubted falling
away from grace. He was observed to crack
bottles of champagne with Duncan Gillies and
other representative persons whose reputation
for business (in the legitimate acceptation of
the word) never stood high. Then came that
mysterious water-picnic on the Lady Loch,
when the Premier and his Commissioner went
away and lost themselves so completely that
they couldn’t be advised of another smash-up
which had occurred in the meantime. A little
later and Duncan was seized with a morbid
anxiety to raise Speight’s salary in defiance of
the terms of contract.' Finally that festive
bachelor came forward with a Railway Bill, so
hopelessly bad and jobbish that it shook all
faith in the department which could allow
itself to be associated with certain of the pro-
posals therein contained. Granting that
Speight didn’t propose many of the lines, it was
felt that he discredited himself by not commiting
self-destruction, or something almost as violent,
when his friend Gillies attempted to put them
through the House. Naturally, or not un-
naturally, the revulsion of feeling against Mr.
Speight is stronger than it ought to be. He
possesses the experience and ability that were
looked for when his appointment was made,
and would be a first-class Commissioner if the
other fellows would leave him alone, or if he
could keep the other fellows at arm’s length.
They stormed the citadel of Speight on its
social side, and poured volleys of funny stories
into him, until he was forced to surrender his
original policy, and sacrifice his highest am-
bitions on the altar of conviviality. Long, long
ago, somebody wrote a little book entitled
“The Dangers of Dining Out.” It was a
domestic, not a political story, and a descrip-
tion of its plot would be irrelevant to the sub-
ject under discussion. Yet the title reminds
one that if Mr. Speight had never dined out
with people whose contact could scarcely fail to
blunt his business keenness, he might not now
be threatened with a bill to curtail the juris-
diction so readily granted to him seven years
ago. He is a good man, and he hasn’t "gone
wrong. On the other hand, he hasn’t gone
right so unswervingly but what he could with
advantage retrace some of his steps and start off
again, if they would only leave the old goal of
success open to him.
■ ♦
Law as a Fetich; “It is no longer regarded
disgraceful by a Queensland workman
to go to gaol.”
The most aggressive offspring -of the moral
obliquity of current social views is the idolatrous
worship of what happens to be Law. At times
of industrial tumult—whenever, in fact, the
sections on top determine to keep the sections
at bottom in what is regarded as their native
slough—Law is galloped out with ceremonial
surroundings akin to those with which the idol
■ Juggernaut proceeds on his homicidal way.
Law, because it happens to be Law, is presented
as a divine vengeance-bearer, an. inexorable
Rhadamanthus, an agent sole, complete and
perfect for the Government of human affairs.
Now, in what does the sacredness or virtue of
Law consist? In what respect should it be
incumbent upon persons to stand by it, to enlist
as special constables under it, to be its guard of
honour, its bodyguard, or its enforcers or sup-
porters in any way ? The most undebatable of
democratic principles is that Law has an
obligatory force upon an individual only when
that individual has helped to make or has
acquiesced in its provisions. Law made
without his consent or against his consent
can only claim to operate on him to the
extent that pains or penalties may follow its
infraction. It possesses in itself no recommen-
datory virtue. When, therefore, in a professed
Democracy, Law which has not been made by
the people is put in operation the people are
bound to observe it on no other ground than
that of saving themselves from injury. In
helping its enforcement they are acting blindly
or interestedly, and such action retards instead
of furthering the true ideal of democratic
citizenship. Sometimes, it is true, a law not
overtly assented to is worthy of assent; but the
vice of applying to a democratic community any
law not overtly assented to, re-appears in the
fact that the application is generally accom-
panied by obnoxious proceedings provocative of
fierce dissent. Take the present shearing
trouble in Queensland as an illustration. Queens-
land bush-workers are practically debarred
from making their voices heard in the framing
of laws. Nominally they are members of a
democracy, but in reality they have as little
weight in shaping the constitutional destiny of
the country as if they were dingoes. Neverthe-
less, they are invoked, exhorted, commanded
to obey Law. Now, what is that Law to them ?
they had as little to do with it in the making
as the people had who were given laws from
Sinai. Ihe latter were a Theocracy, however,
while Queensland calls itself a Democracy. The
Queensland bushworkers no more made the laws
than do the Russian serfs the will which the
Czar imposes on them. Where, then, is the
virtue in obeying Law—ancient Law, George
IV.-made law, law which has been repealed in
England, but which is still good enough for the
Queensland squatters —as Law ? Until these
bushworkers obtain their citizen right of help-
ing to shape legislation, Law cannot, we con-
tend, put forward any just claim to their
allegiance. In relation to them it can only
stand as the will of the Czar stands. The
difference, if any, between the two is one of
degree, not of kind. Invoking men to stand
by and support as a holy thing a law, because
it is Law, which they neither overtly and
covertly assented to, but against which their
influence, had it been given vent, would have
been directed, is a proceeding amounting almost


to burlesque. But, as we said, even when a
law not assented to is in itself worthy of assent
its application is democratically dangerous
because of obnoxious accompaniments. The
Queensland bush workers would, it is reasonable
to suppose, have been contented to fight the
battle with the squatters on ordinary strike
lines had they had the power in the Constitu-
tion which their numbers warrant. Had they
had this power they would have, when
labourers were brought from Victoria, done
what several of the United States did in
similar circumstances—they would have shut
these recruits out. Those bushworkers were
therefore placed in a position of double disad-
vantage. A law which might have been fair,
but to which they did not assent, was applied
to them, and concurrently another law, or
legal privilege, from which their dissent would
have been vehement, was put in operation in
their opponents’ interests. In this view of the
matter those who consider that men like those
bushworkers will be induced to treat as a sacred
thing Law, made as it is, forget that the
process of making is now understood, and that,
with whatever ceremonial worship the idol is
surrounded, those who suffer under it will try
to break it.
*
Going Bung.
Brisbane generally seems to be “ going bung,”
and therefore it is quite natural that the
Queensland Government should proclaim that
it intends to amend the whole law relating to
how to cheat one’s creditors —to bring in a new
Bankruptcy Bill, in fact. The immediate
impulse came from the Brisbane Chamber of
Commerce, which has only just discovered that
a secret bill-of-sale is an iniquitous thing, and
has deputationised the Government in conse-
quence. The indirect shock emanated from the
insolvency of an individual who, besides being
a very pious and very efficient Sunday-school
superintendent, is the son-in-law of one of
Brisbane’s prominent citizens. At a meeting of
creditors, the Sunday-school superintendent
announced to his creditors that two years pre-
viously he had given a secret bill-of-sale to his
father-in-law, and that, though he had been
obtaining credit and goods as before from un-
suspecting merchants, this bill-of-sale covered
every stick on his premises. Here was a how-
d’ye-do ! Some emerald creditors “ felt cer-
tain” that “the old man” would, &c., &c.
But the old man didn’t—he, as a man of
business, straightway claimed on the bill-of-
sale. One of the principal creditors, a mer-
chant of standing, a man of sound sense,
and generally of immovable coolness, exploded
when he heard of the bill-of-sale, and imme-
diately proceeded to risk the whole libel-
law ; but though some weeks have passed,
neither the Sunday - school superintendent
nor his father-in-law appear to have asked
for any explanation or retractation. Now
the Queensland Government has promised to
make secret bills-of-sale illegal, or at least null
and void —a step that should have been taken
ages ago. We could give the career of a very
pi’ominent Queenslander who has made his pile
on the game. He went up North and, legiti-
mately or otherwise, saved £9OO ; bought pro-
perty, married and settled all his property on
his wife ; went into business again apparently
on his own credit but really on his wife’s ;
“ enlarged ” his business and bought consider-
able property in another province; went bung—
Whew ! The marriage settlements couldn’t be
touched; the property in another province would
have been difficult to get at in any case, but that
also was “in the wife’s name;” result—about
2s. in the £. However, he started in Brisbane
next on a big scale and—went bung again with
a similar result. He is living in splendour now
at Erzeroum, or Stamboul, or Dubbo, or some-
where. Another notorious Brisbane insolvent
coolly told his creditors—the amount was nearly
£20,000 —“ Well, gentlemen, I’ve got nothing
myself, but I think I can get £5OO from my
friends, if you’ll take it to save trouble.” The
creditors laughed sardonically. “Then you’ll
get nothing,” said the buck. So they made
him insolvent instead of ‘ ‘ liquidating by
arrangement,” and—they did get nothing.
They, too, will back up the Government in
suppressing secret bills-of-sale.
+.
Samaritans at Sea.
The First Lord, in “Pinafore,” has made us
familiar with the fact that “the British seaman
is a splendid fellow,” but he omits to mention
that the marine flower in question usually
blooms at his best aboard a steam-tug. The
tug itself is a gallant little craft which comes
waltzing o’er the briny billow when’the stormy
winds do blow, in order to be near some chance
sailing sister in distress, and the duty of the
tug’s skipper is to breathe through a speaking-
trumpet his employer’s lowest cash price for
emulating that historical land-lubber, the Good
Samaritan. The figure named is mostly heavy,
or monstrous, just according to circumstances,
but as it is opposed to sound commercial prin-
ciples for succour to arrive until things look
mighty bad for the distressed party, the terms
on offer amidst the tempest are more apt to be
monstrous than merely heavy. To liken, at
such times, a steam-tug to a vulture hovering
round a moribund sheep would be absurd,
because, whilst the bird of prey wails to fatten
on the dead, the ocean “puffing-billy” hopes
and expects to save the unhappy sailing vessel
with a view to exacting its pound of flesh later
on. Rather should we describe the steam-tug
as a philanthropic usurer ready to lend assist-
ance to the sinking ship of commerce-—for a
modest shixty per shent. Men versed in the
modern history of mercantile marine service
declare that a schooner aground, or a brig with
its keel full-reefed, is regarded as a legitimate
mark for the extortion of any tug that can tow
it out of peril. Moreover, nautical persons seem
to agree in stating that it is the rule, rather
than the exception, for the little friend in need
to lie dark off the weather-bow until the luck-
less sailing-vessel can lie ‘ ‘ pinched ” into
acceptance of the terms offered through a speak-
ing-trumpet. In short, the tug’s skipper dis-
plays business smartness when he postpones his
proposal to “ take ’em, or leave ’em,” till such
time as a refusal of the hard bargain means
destruction to the other vessel. This is a custom
of the trade, say those who ought to know, wher-
ever the English language is spoken, and doesn’t
specially reflect upon any tars who plough Aus-
tralian waters. It would ill become a journal like
The Bulletin, to insinuate that the Craigburn
recently went to pieces near Sorrento for want
of assistance that was uncharitably delayed till
it couldn’t assist, or to suggest that the merci-
less elements were not alone responsible for the.
loss of life that ensued. We will confine our-
selves to quotations from published state-
ments of parties aboard the Craigburn in her
last extremity. Pilot Blanchard says that
“ the Eagle remained alongside for about an
hour, but what transpired between the captain of
the Eagle and the captain of the Craigburn he
would not say. He mentioned that the Nemesis
steamed around the ship and between her and
the land and spoke her; but, shrugging his
shoulders, he also declined to say what passed
between her captain and the captain of the
Craigburn. The tug Racer likewise spoke the
ship. No arrangements (a significant word in
this connection) were made with either of the
steamers other than the Rescue to tow the ship
away.” Able-bodied seaman Poulson says :
“ When we were outside the Heads, in a
dangerous position, the Eagle tug came along-
side the Craigburn and offered to tow us off for
£5OO. The captain and pilot were on deck, and
the latter advised Captain Kerb to give the
£5OO. He declined, and offered £5O. . . .
Subsequently he said he would give the tug
£100.” And the captain says:—“The only
time I interfered with the pilot was when he
engaged the tug, and I only did so then because
I wanted to get the work done cheaper, as it
was my duty to the owner to do so.” Evidently
Captain Kerr regarded the rescue of his vessel
as a question of money, and only wanted to
give a sum just sufficient to induce the Eagle
or any other tug to pull his charge out of
danger. These statements on the Craigburn
side can be taken for what they are worth.
So with the declaration of Captain Wilson, of
the Eagle, that “ there is no truth whatever in
the impression that the owners of tug-boats
seek to extort exorbitant sums of money from
a captain when his ship is in danger.” Captain
Wilson may speak for himself and employers
truthfully enough, but when he speaks thus for
tugs all the world over he is trying to sweep
back an ocean of contrary expert evidence with
a broom.
♦
“ Woa! A Disgrace to the Bench.
The following is a slab from Judge Hardings
observations at the unionist trials at Rock-
hampton (Q.) as reported—with commendations
—by the Australasian :
Mr. Charles Fairbairn described how a party of about
200 unionists met the free labourers at Clermont railway
station on the 11th February, how the crowd frightened
the horses in the waggons in which the free labourers
were to be taken out to the station, and called out “ woa,”
and “ boo-hoo,” when the drivers urged the horses for-
ward. The witness also said that he asked the police to
interfere, and they said that they had no orders. The
judge said, “Do the police want to see a man’s throat cut
before they do anything? How do they act in this
country? They seem to have no system. It’s funny,
very funny, indeed. It’s a nice, pleasant country where
such a state of things exists.” The witness, in reply to a
question, said that there were four policemen present at
the time. The judge, “ Let me see. They all have six-
shooters. Four sixes are 24. That would be 24 of them.
There would not have been many who boohoohed the
second time if I had been one of them. It is monstrous
to consider how any free nation can exist when such things
are considered justifiable and allowable.”
Now, though Judge Harding may not have brains
or coherence or human capacity his remarks mean
that the police ought to have started a course
of promiscuous murder and shot down anybody
or everybody who was suspected of saying
“Woa!” or “Boo!” He did not absolutely
say that they should have done this, but unless
the English language is dead and disused and
out of date, he meant that and nothing else.
Judge Harding, so far as The Bulletin can
learn, is a Christian, and his language would
seem to point him out as an aggravated and in-
curable kind of Christian as well. According
to his theories, the shearers who said “800 !”
were committing a very bad kind of a sin—the
violence of his language is a sufficient guarantee
of that; and he is apparently mad because the
police didn’t instantly blaze away and start the
unionists off to hell in midst of their iniquities.
Then, according to all Christian theories, they
would wander around and boil and fry and
simmer and frizzle for billions of centuries
because they said “Woa!” to an imported
blackleg, and would be stirred up with pitch-
forks, and dissected with red-hot rakes, and
howled at by three-legged devils and centi-
pedes and serpents, and hunted by immense
worms and salamanders, and chased by shriek-
ing skeletons armed with blazing kerosene, and
torn by ghosts and gnomes and hideous squashy
goblins through all the ages of an endless
futurity. Judge Harding, the impartial arbiter,
holder of the scales of justice, seemingly is
howling with disgust and indignation because
this didn’t happen. Providing his words are
correctly reported —and we see them similiarly
set down in half-a-dozen papers—what he dis-
tinctly hinted at was murder, pure and simple ;
for there is no law which authorises the promis-
cuous killing of anybody who says “ Woa !” or
“ 800 !” in the street, and the policeman who
went out shooting under such conditions would
be hanged in short order. Making a noise is
not a capital offence, and if it were, Judge Hard-
ing probably makes more noise on the bench
than was made by any individual unionist in
Queensland. If there had been any absolute
violence on the part of the Unionists there
might possibly have been some excuse for the
J udge’s suggestion, but so far the only serious
crime has been one murder committed by the
Age’s pet blackleg — the same blackleg whose
tale of woe was used as a tremendous indict-
ment against the whole Labour party in Queens-
land. Also, if Judge Harding had reserved
his remarks till the end of the trial he would
have at least preserved some shred or semblance
of decency, but this alleged “ Justice ” give
way to frenzy after hearing one side of the case
only, and started to preach riot and bloodshed
on a more liberal scale even than the prisoners
were accused of doing. And as his remarks
very nearly amounted to a declaration that the
prisoners should have been shot in cold blood
without a trial it was hardly worth going on
with the trial at all. A Judge who howls for
gore when he has heard one side of a story only
is a lopsided individual who has obviously
missed his vocation, and a man who suggests
.starting a massacre because someone said
“ Woa !”is a failure as a human being. How-
ever, we suppose Harding will stay on the
bench—for the present—and it is idle to re-
monstrate with the authorities as at present
constituted concerning him. We must wait
patiently for Big Berry and Big Black Wednes-
day. And then—Woosh ! not “Woa!”
Dear Bulletin, — I read with no little pleasure
your recent article on “ Home Rule for the
A.M.P. Society.” In no province would de-
centralization and local election of local direc-
torates be hailed with . greater satisfaction than
in Queensland, where the Society’s membership
is very large and where its investments are
considerable. To refuse to Queensland members
a voice in the election of the Queensland Board
seems a suicidal policy if it be remembered that
three American companies are successfully com-
peting for business in Brisbane. From a tele-
gram in a Brisbane paper I learn that the
“general tone” of the annual meeting of mem-
bers held the other day in Sydney was “ appar-
ently in favour of opening a London office.” I
very much question whether the ‘ ‘ tone ” of
Queensland members harmonises with this ; but
so long as Queensland directors are nominees of
the Central office, that “ tone ” cannot be ascer-
tained nor given effect to. Yours, &c., —A 15-
years Member of the A.M.P. Society, Bris-
bane.
[According to the press reports of the annual meeting,
out of 13 speakers, 8 advocated the establishment of a
London office ; I (among whom was J. S. Turner, of
Queensland) do not appear to have touched on the sub-
ject ; and 1 (F. Lee) mildly opposed it as being “not
ripe.”—Ed. B ]
The gods certainly do send some people mad—
mad as the swine of the Gadarenes. Protesting
against his ill-luck in having a “labour war”
on his hands, having those same hands also full
with an unemployed difficulty in Queens-
land’s capital under his office windows, with an
empty Treasury chest and a majority of about
one unsure member and half-a-dozen see-saws
— with all these handicaps, Premier Griffth
proposes either to introduce or to permit to be
introduced into North Queensland, an Italian
colony. A colony of Italian peasants, every
manjack of whom is possibly a member of one or
other of the secret societies that have made
things lively in New Orleans (U.S.A.) lately.
The people of Queensland have fought a Chinese
question, have conquered a Kanaka question,
have refused a Coolie question, and have eluded
a Javanese question. But they are to be inocu-
lated with an Italian question full of evil virus.
Three hundred and fifty Italians are to leave
Genoa for North Queensland towards the end
of June. For what ? To save the sugar-indus-
try, which enterprise, hitherto, has stubbornly
refused to be saved ! Kanakas failed to save it.
Central mills were half-failure, half-fraud. A
rotten institution that has boomed itself out of
all bounds can’t be saved by anything. One
might as well hope to save the Premier Per-
manent Building Society. Small sugar-growers,
with small, cheap, yet sufficient plant for their
estates, like Grimes near Oxley, still make the
game pay. But those who, in the sugar-boom,
erected plant worth thousands in order to do
only as much work as could efficiently be done
by a plant worth hundreds, have gone under.
The “fly” men sold out on flood tide. The
greenhorns paid through the nose and were in
difficulties from the start. The whole industry
was unsound from the commencement. M‘ll-
wraith tried to save it with kanakas, and this
plan seemed to work wonders at first, but the
supply of Polynesians soon ran short, “ black-
birding ” flourished, and the traffic was doomed.
This put the finishing-touch on expensively-
made sugar. But it is folly to try and save the
sugar-industry with—ltalians,
A Gisborne (N.Z.) gentleman named C. M.
Maunsell was, some nights ago, found illegally
on a neighbour’s premises, barefooted, and with
suspected sinister intentions auent one or more
girls sleeping therein; the parents being, within
Maunsell’s knowledge, absent up country, and
the hour being 1 a.m. When accused appeared
before the Resident Magistrate, other gentle-
men, members of the local club, presented them-
selves as witnesses and swore that Maunsell
was speechlessly and helplessly drunk at 10
o’clock on that night. Other evidence was that
between 11 and 12 o’clock he was thoroughly
sober. The facts deposed to by the girls were
not disputed, the defence being : “ Don’t know
anything at all about itthe Chinaman’s “no
savee,” in fact. In going from the club to the
girls’ house, Maunsell had to pass his own
dwelling by a considerable distance, and he
entered their dwelling barefooted. The Magis-
trate admitted in his judicial address to the
Court generally that Maunsell was an old
friend of his, and that it was painful for him to
act. Then he severely let him off on his own
and a correlative recognisance of £5O to ‘ ‘ come
up for sentence when called upon.” Not long
ago, in the same Court, a wretched drunkard
who mistook a settler’s house for an adjacent
hotel, was promptly sent up for “ three
months’ hard. ” In the latter case the culprit
was most unmistakeably drunk, and his mis-
take was topographically natural; in Maun-
sell’s case, the alleged intoxication is to be
suspected, the conditions of locality made it
hard for any undesigned unlawful entry, and
the man left his boots outside the house. But
the first man was a nobody; Maunsell was a
“gentleman of means,” and admittedly more
or less a crony of the Magistrate.
* —,—
Where does the infallible principle of “ free-
dom of contract ” come in with the cabman ?
His fares are fixed and graded both as to time
and as to distance! He cannot even refuse to
carry a passenger without rendering himself
liable to a penalty. He cannot make a free
bargain with any would-be passenger who likes
to bind him down to the regulations. His only
“freedom of contract ” is to take his cab home
and not ply for hire at all. Why is a cabman
selected as one of the scapegoats of a breach of
this monopolistic sacrament! Because lie is a
mere convenience for the well-to-do, the rich,
who regard him as a sort of off-and-on chattel
provided specially for themselves? Is not that it?
The mighty steamship companies, which are
august types of the humble Jehu, are per-
mitted without let or hindrance to arrange
their own terms of fare and freight, subject
only to the laws of competition, and with the
fullest “freedom of contract.” This is because
they are monopolies compounded of capitalists,
and whenever the capitalist speaks from his
own end of the telephone “freedom of contract”
is the holiest commercial emotion that can
agitate his being. In a word, “freedom of
contract ” only exists wherever and whenever
the ruling classes choose that it shall exist, and
it is only ignored when it is to the pecuniary
advantage and personal comfort of the masses
that it shall be ignored.
The Bulletin publishes the subjoined well-
timed epistle for the edification of the X. 8. W.
Trades and Labour Council and in the interests
of the Democratic party as a whole, not for the
purpose of “ putting a head ” on the Sifigle-tax
League, whose representatives should ' he ac-
corded the support of the Council (and of the
Protectionist Labour party) whenever and
wherever their chances appear to be better than
that of other available labour candidates ;
Why have you been silent on the subject of the N.S.W.
Trades and Labour Council’s conduct in regard to Par-
liamentary elections? Did they not make a still more
fearful hash of the Newcastle election than that at West
Sydney, though the former vacancy was simply a gift for
them? Do you approve of their pig-headed stupidity of
trying to force a candidate on them whose fixed views were
obviously objectionable to the electors? “The fiscal ques-
tion must be sunk ” —even so. Still, there is no reason why
they should not display tact in the selection of candidates.
It is fair to say that 80 per cent, of trades-unionists are pro-
tectionists. Should not this be taken into consideration ?
Here we have East Sydney, and New-castle, and the Wel-
lington elections, and the labour candidates in each
instance are Single-taxers or Freetraders. Two seats are
already lost (by labour—l am not speaking of Protection)
and the only hope for Wellington is that the candidates in
favour of Protection will be so numerous that Riddell,
with the help of the Freetrade vote, may sneak in. If he
is opposed by one Protectionist he will be out of it for a
certainty. What else can they expect? Riddell is not a
working-man ; his fiscal views are opposed to those of the
bulk of the electors of Wellington and to the majority of
trades-unionists in the province ; he is a inember of the
Trades and Labour Council because the Single-taxers (all
agents, hotel-keepers, and “ on the job men,”) consider it
part of their policy to get into Parliament by the easiest
route, for the advancement of their own particular views.
There is no doubt that they are using the Labour Party—
that they have great power is equally certain ; no better
proof can be shown than the acceptance of their latest
nominee, Riddell—who is a new and comparatively un-
known man—who is not a bona fide working-man, and
whose fiscal views are objectionable to the electors of
Wellington. Why, in the name of thunder, was he chosen?
Are the Single-taxers, for their own individual glory,
leading the Labour party by the nose, or are they not?
While those political sciolists, Pabkes, Munro
and Fysh, are blatantly trumpeting forth their
achievement in Constitution-making, and think
they have settled in a month the problems
which have agitated the minds of the world’s
great publicists since the days of the Athenian
democracy, it is instructive to read that the
“Century Club” of Xew York—the globe-
famous association of the most brilliant intel-
lects which the United States can boast—was
incessantly discussing, at a late date, the rela-
tions of the States to the Federal Power. • The
annalist of the Club says :
Libber, rich with European experience, skilled in
dialectics, aggressive and suggestive, provoked many an
argument. ... He fully grasped and clearly" ex-
pounded the true doctrine, that the Union created a
Federated and not a consolidated nation, with a Govern-
ment limited to a delegated Sovereignty, and supreme
only in its permitted sphere. . . . His arguments on
this theme with jurists of the century filled many an
evening with eager and instructive debate.
The italics are The Bulletin’s. The historian
gives other instances which prove that the
limits of State and Federal Powers which our
Conventionists in their shameful ignorance, or
wilful duplicity dismissed almost in silence—
were within the last year or two, and probably
still are, subjects of constant debate at the
Club. A Bulletin man, by the way, asked a
member of the Convention, “had he looked
into the works of Liebeb and Yon Holst?”
the two great Germans who informed their
practical study on the spot of the American
Constitutional System by their Teutonic specu-
lativeness. “ Never heard of them ! ” was the
reply, “and I have no time to go deeply into
the matter. I trust to Griffith and Pabkes!”
Of such were the Fathers of the new Australian
Nation!
Reprint from Twentieth Century. There is
nothing like seeing both sides of a question :
London Times, March 17.
It is all very well to repro-
bate a resort to violence,
but in such circumstances
as these, what way is there
for emancipating the com-
munity from an intolerable
tyranny excepting to resort
to violence? The law re-
quires trial by jury, and
trial by jury has been re-
duced to a farce by the
knowledge possessed by
every juryman, that if he
convicts a member of the
Mafia his life is not worth a
week’s purchase. It is really
a misuse of language to
speak of a resort to violence.
The standing rule in New
Orleans is is the rule of vio-
lence, and all that Mr. Par-
kerson and his followers
have done is to accept the
conditions prescribed by the
Mafia.
All law rests ultimately
upon force ; and when the
courts are dominated by the
criminals whom they exist
to punish, nothing remains
but to go back to first prin-
ciples to effect their deliver-
ance. Let lawless violence
be abandoned by all means,
but que messieurs les assas-
sins commencent.
Among the men who were
lynched there may have
been some who did not
actually fire at Hennessy,
but it is not pretended that
there were any who were
not members of the detest-
able society that decreed his
death. That being the case,
it is impossible to feel any
very acute distress because
in the midst of the violence
they had rendered indis-
pensable, they have been
somewhat more severely
punished than if they had
been legally dealt with.
Imaginary Anarchist-Com-
munist Revolutionary
Organ.
It is all very well to repro-
bate a resort to violence,
but in such circumstances
as these, what way is there
for emancipating the com-
munity from an intolerable
tyranny except co resort to
violence? The law requires
trial by jury, nnd trial by
jury has been reduced to a
farce, by the knowledge
possessed by every juryman
that if he convicts a member
of the ruling class his posi-
tion in society is not worth
a week’s purchase. It ia
really a misuse of language
to speak of a resort to
violence. The standing rule
among monopolists is the
rule bf violence, and all
John Most and his followers
would do is to accept the
conditions prescribed by
the monopolists.
All law rests ultimately
upon force; and when Ihe
courts are dominated by the
m onopolists nothing remains
but to go back to first prin-
ciples to effect their deliver-
ance. Let lawless violence
be abandoned by all means,
but que messieurs les mono-
polistes commencent.
Among the men whom
the revolution may destroy
there may be some who did
not actually, personally op-
press the wage-earners, but
i t is not pretended that t he re
will be any who are not
members of the detestable
class that decreed their cv
slavemont. That being (In-
case, it is impossible to feel
any very acute distress, be-
cause, in the midst of the
violence they have rendered
indispensable, they will be
somewhat more severely
punished than if they could
have been legally dealt with.


The Charles Carkeek, of Blackall, struck
off the roll of J.P.’s for showing sympathy with
unionists, is identical with the senior member of
the late firm of Carkeek and Hart, who three or
four years ago owned the Cunnamulla Express.
Carkeek afterwards went up to Barcaldine to edit
the Barcoo Independent.
The diabolical insurrection and blood-and-
fire picnic up in Central Queensland must instantly
be put down by the strong arm of everything.
'The reports that reach us from Barcaldine simply
show that everything and everybody will have
to be suppressed by everything and everybody
•else, and that the army must be allowed to go
home peacefully and cart earth, or be at once
■deprived of its special constable baton and Govern-
ment billy-can. Samuel Holmes was, the other
■day, arraigned for “ insulting the military,” and
very properly so, too. He “crowed like a cock
■only this, and nothing more. And he crowed so
well that he “insulted the military ” to such an
•extent that Major Des Yceux could hardly restrain
them from spitting him on their bayonets. Major
Des Yceux further gave evidence that “ any refer-
ence to stealing fowls would be considered an
insult to the military.” Why ? Do they steal
fowls? Perish the insinuation and pass us a
gobbler. The general charge of intimidation
against a “free labourer” is an indictment that
he called out—“ Come along, boys; we’ve got
lots of fat horses and plenty of johnny-cakes
down at the camp.” These terrible “threats” have
oeen sworn to and form a literal quotation from
the words of the informations.
Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co. have just
■entered into possession of the new seven-door
building erected for them on George-street, Syd-
ney, as a music-warehouse. The front is of red
brick with mullioned windows and is after the
Italian style of architecture. The ground-door is
fitted up as a shop, to whose rear is situated the
business offices. On the first door is the show-
room where instruments by all the noted makers
are on view. The second door is devoted to
■ similar uses, except that portion set aside for the
■offices of Mr. Paling and his manager, Mr. P, E.
Manich. The third door is occupied by organs ;on
■he fourth door, the wholesale department, are to
)e found all kinds of musical instruments and sheet
and book-music to the value of £lO,OOO. The
fifth door is sectioned off into teaching-rooms, 16
in number, each containing a piano, which are
leased to local musicians. These rooms, in
order to be sound-proof, are separated one from
another by walls composed of wood, plaster, felt
and sawdust in layers (happy thought for the
builders of terraces !) Above are the workshops
where tuning, repairing and polishing are carried
■on, and a showroom containing pianos for hire.
Above all is a room for the storage of pianos left
for safe keeping and some additional teaching-
rooms. The building is well lit and thoroughly
ventilated. Messrs. Castleden and Robertson
were the architects, the builders, Mc-ts, Jones
■and Sons, while Mr. Manich gup. , , sed the
whole
[?]
SIC Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 27, 1891.
Mv Dear Moorabinua,—
The reception of La Bernhardt on 2Cth hist, would have
haen an unqualified success if the committee had either
e.iained Dan O Connor to the Post Office tower, or forced
him to spachify in Frinch, although when he did essay
the Gallic, his remark, “La bella Frongsay,” was natur-
ally received with shrieks of mirth from the assembled
crowd. The reception took place in the saloon of the
Monovvai. The only Sara (the entire Bulletin isn’t large
enough to do pen-and-ink justice to this charming, red-
haired, dimpled, divine creature, with grey eyes like
electric sparks, which she narrows, cat-like, at the adoring
multitude) received in a curtained alcove, leaning grace-
fully against an immense gilded presentation basket
of lovely flowers, and holding a large bouquet of
' iolets presented by the rather Bernhardtish-lcoking Mrs.
If. M'Quade. She wore a quaint gown of violet silk
fashioned in gaberdine style and trimmed in unexpected
places with iridescent violet-beads—the waist held by a
silver zone, the front opening over a vest and collar of
grey fur; her hat was in black gauze trimmed in a hap-
hazard way with violets, daffodils, and yellow silk (by the
way, she held a violet between her teeth most of the
time, and now you’ll see every woman on the Block fol-
lowing suit), and her little taper fingers were bare. After
ihe speeches, the majority of those present were intro,
iluced to the lioness by Dr. deLambert (who deserves a
pat on the back for the calm and diplomatic way in which
he managed everything against many obstacles), and then
the fun began. “Javais plaisheer de voo voir mah-
d.ihme, * and, so on. Only one man present had
the nerve to kiss the hand of the Bernhardt (even the
inevitable OC. was not equal to the occasion) —
alas for the decadence of the ancien regime! After
t.ie reception “she” went on board the gaily-
gotten-up launch, whore unlimited fizz was opened
(it was a deal too early in the day for champagne), “ her’’
gold-top being presented on a silver salver, and didn’t the
waiter’s hand shake, poor man. Nearing the wharf
“ she ” was induced to make a little speech to the ladies in
1 luglish. “ Laties. and sheutlemen, I tank you for—vat is
it?—you kindness,” and once more the band played La
Marseillaise. Among the ladies and gentlemen present
were; Mr. and Mrs. Russell Jones, Dr. Burne (who takes
lets wife over to Melbourne to be present at the Bernhardt
prdmifcre), Mr. Calvert, Mr. and Mrs, Moss, Kowalski,
1 lallewell, Poussard, Jewett, Hazon, &c., &c. On landing
Madame Bernhardt drove to the Grosvenor Hotel.
Like the first Burdekin shivoo, the initiatory mayoral
reception of Mr, and Mrs. Manning on 20th inst. in Sydney
down Hall happened in the pouring rain, the extreme
l.mpncss Of the weather leading many economists to
appear in faded front-breadths and hats that “didn’t
matter,” andmethought the atmosphere was pervaded by
the subtle aroma of goloshes. The hall looked very gay, the
winter-green decorationsforthelndustry ball the following
evening being gracefully festooned from pillar to pillar”
and fl igs and string band lent a festive air to the proceed-
ings. Tea and ices were served on long tables under the
southern gallery (a much better plan than locating them
i,u. the digmal basement), and in spite of the slush and rain
the first civic reception was a, well-attended and cheerful
function.
Of course, everybody wasn’t in seedy clothing. Mrs.
\V. P. Manning—who on closer inspection was revealed
tq.be a short, stout, agreeable Mayoress, with Jersey hair
and a kindly smile—wore grey cashmere, the round skirt
finished off with a deep floral border in pink and cream
colours, the bodice with vest of the border and reverse of
grey velvet, the basque finished off with pockets of grey
velvet and the floral pattern, capote in black and gold,
cream gloves; the Mayor (who,is built on the lines of a
London Journal hero), carried off the purple and ermine
to the manner born,; the Misses Manning in dark blue;
Mrs. Roth in black ; Mrs. (Dr.) Warren in neat grey, with
a modest Quakerish bonnet en suite ; Mrs. B. R. Wise in
electric blue, relieved with bands of gold trimming, brown
hat; Mrs. Foreman in black lace and armure, small black
bonnet relieved with scarlet butterflies; Miss Burdett
Smith, green corded silk with chenille borders, and
touches of magenta in gown and hat; Mrs. D. O’Connor
in brown; Mrs. J. H. Carruthers in black. Miss
Amy Roberts was absolutely charming in light-brown
peppered with <Scru lozenges, and trimmed with brown
velvet, hat en suite; Mrs. Bouverie in sepia tints,
lightened by a yellow scarf. One or two dresses hurt my
artistic feelings. For instance—but no matter.
Owing, it is imputed, to the absence of vice-rega l
patronage at Sydney School of Industry hop on 21st inst.,
the attendance seemed the smallest for years, although
what constitutes a crowded success in Needs’ rooms
(where the ball has been hitherto, held.) turns to a dismal
numerical failure in the big Centennial Hall. There are
many close-fisted people who are glad of the excuse “ The
Governor’s wife isn’t going, so why should we ? ” to avoid
subscribing to any charity, so it is a great pity that Lady
Jersey was,unable to be present at so deserving a charity
(estival. Those who were there had dressed themselves
to.grace the occasion, Lady Martin wore trained black
v.elvet relieved, on the bodice with folds of white erfipe
diamond ornaments; Lady Manning wore grey; Mrs.
Montgomerie Severn, Mrs. Flood, Mrs. (E. J.) Jenkins.
Mrs. Alison, all wore pink of various shades. Mrs. Bur-
dett-Smith wore a charming pink and white gown, and
diamonds; Miss Cox was in white brocade and chiffon.
Music, floor, and supper were generally excellent.
April weather on the first day of the Birthday race-
meeting, at Randwick, at whose watering-pot I suppose
one must lay the blame of the redivivus rags which were
visible everywhere. And yet I don’t know whether the
showers had so much to do with it. Local society is not
ashamed to appear at six or seven shivoos in precisely the
same get-up to tbe very bonnet-strings be the weather
never ao dry. Neither Lord nor Lady Jersey was present
to lend a V.R. interest to the Grand-stand, and the pro-
ceedings seemed to lack snap in consequence, though
Hop. Rupert Leigh and the boyish Earl of Ancrum repre-
sented Guv'ment ’Ouso to the best of their ability. A
most simple yet effective toilet was worn by a tall, hand-
some blonde: a plain, dark-blue, well-out skirt and slick
bodice, a soft brown fur bon, cluster of violets'- in front
and black Spanish hat. Another nice gown was in sage-
green with sleeves and revers of sage-green velvet
brocade, the jacket opening over a vest of gold tinsel,
bonnet en suite. But a perfectly ghastly get-up observable
on the members’ stand was in navy-blue trimmed with
gold braid, the bodice having an untidy front of yellow
satin, the whole topped off by a tol-tol-ish hat in black
gauze and black feathers. The lady also sported yellow
gloves.
The opening of N.S.W. Parliament at noon on 19th inst.
was a short, sharp ceremony, crowded with sisters and
cousins, and aunts, who refrained this time from seizing
the members’ chairs and rioting in the reporters’ gallon’,
as they did at the prorogation. “ Why they come I don’t
know," said to me a chronically-astonished Parliamentary
o.fieial, “for it’s a dry-as-dust ceremony all through, but
some of ’em (indicating with a wave of his hand the sea of
bonnets dow’n below) haven’t missed it for years.” Per-
haps they go to steal a millinery-tip from the Governor 8
hat, or to get a pointer as to how to arrange a point-lace
jabot from the Speaker—anyhow, woman is in a “com*
pact majority” on this as on every similar occasion. I
wonder why a rough-and-ready community like this still
clings to knee-breeches ceremonies? They are dreadfully
out of place. A man in ruffles and a big wig does no*
subdue Young Australia; on the contrary, as the cos
tumes amble up the centre a wide, amused smile goes
round the audience, and the air of the House resembles
that of the estatic front row at a Punch and Judy.
At the opening aforesaid lots of women turned out
without cards (it’s a funny little way some Sydney people
have whenever there seems the ghost of a chance of
getting in), and I really must admit that the extremely
“ come-one-come-all ” arrangements encourage this sort
of tiling. I clasped a bilious-tin ted ticket-of-leave in my
right hand, but nobody looked at it. If Parliament is
gaby enough to suppose that the Sydney female is going
to keep out of a show which doesn’t employ ticket-takers
simply because she hasn’t been asked, it is quite time its
component parts were reverently returned to their con-
stituents.
Speaking of uninvited guests—one pushing little Potts
Pointer takes the laurel wreath from all-comers at that
sort of thing. For instance, cards were sent to her and
her husband for one of the April balls at Government
House, but, lo and behold, on the strength of those two
bits of pasteboard, mamma introduced four daughters
into the halls of dazzling light, while Secretary Goschen
leant up against a pillar and tried to think whether he
really- had sent a family-ticket to a boarding-school in an
unguarded moment.
To resume. Beginning with the Gov.—whose splendour
made the rest of the people look bleached—the gowning
w’asn’t distinctly dreadful. The ensemble of Jersey in
full fig showed him to be an Adonis who could carry
plenty of dress; Lord Ancrum was like a Valentine in
gorgeous red and scarlet; Lady Jersey looked graceful in
pale-blue woollen with moirb panel, the bodice trimmed
with gold and jewelled trimming, bonnet in black and
canary velvet and jet, ecrii lace gamp ; the eldest Jersey
girl in red pongee spotted with white, trimmed with
guipure, flat hat and cream feathers ; Lady Hay in black
with chrysanthemums in her bonnet; Miss A. M. Stephen
(who sat with Sir Alfred among the vice-regal party) in
dark crimson and brown checks relieved with ruby velvet,
black and ruby hat en suite . And so on.
It’s doubtful whether it is better to be an old man’s
darling unless you have cheek enough to spoon on the
housetops, as it were. For instance, 1 was passenger by
a train recently, and right in front of me, in a saloon
carriage, sat the ricketty dyed-hair-and-whiskers old.
Moneybags who is about to marry (he has bowed out two.
wives already) a girl young enough to be his grandchild.
In the exigencies of the journey Henry VIII. put up the
window, from whence he let his wizened arm fall negli-
gently about the waist of his third Pansy Blossom and
kept it there until there wasn’t a single tunnel ahead. It-
was no use for the lady to remonstrate in a whisper—
Lothario is too seasoned a lover to object to a “gallery”’
in his moments of dalliance—but his bride-elect needn’t,
have been so bashful. Any uninitiated observer wouldl
have put him down to be her grandfather.
The latest Sydney tabby aggregate is the University
Women’s Society, with Lady Jersey patroness and Lady-
Manning and Mrs. Charles Fairfax as president andl
vice-ditto. But the thing that amuses me is the
“annonce” that “a letter was read from Lady Jersey-
containing valuable suggestions as to the choice of sub-
jects for the future use of the society. The committee'
was authorised to follow out the suggestions.” This isi
what makes me smile. Possibly Lady J.’s tips may be
good ones, as she is understood to be a brainy woman
but still she should remember that if she hinted that the
members ought to walk on their hands and keep time tc
“Annie Rooney” with their feet the committee woulc
be solemnly “authorised” all the same. Whenever 1
read of vice-regal advice “being thankfully received,” I
am always reminded of the deep old diplomatist who.
once ignored a Governor’s “suggestion” as to how hisi
particular society ought to be run, and put his own plant
into practice. When everything was going on smoothly
the Governor was invited to inspect. “ There, your
Excellency!” said the diplomatist, “see how well your
suggestion has worked out.”
On the same evening Mrs. W. H. Chard gave a birthday
dance at her residence, Elsinore, Potts Point, which, im
spite of the uncertain weather, proved a success. Mrs.
Chard wore coal-satin trimmed with autumn leaves ; her
daughters were in pretty white gowns; Mrs. (Dr.)Kendal 1
in maize-satin relieved with mignonette; Miss Maud
Galbraith in white satin with gold bullion braid ; her
sister in white satin and chiffon. White was' the.
favourite colour.
The presenters of that element of Parliamentary
discord, the “address-in-reply,” are greatly flattered at.
the way in which Governor Jersey received them andi
their ambiguous missive. Carington used to be hearty
enough, but stood rooted like a rock. Jersey— whose ■
“ graciousness ” is on the verge of becoming oppressive
(that is to say for a member of the old aristocracy)—
mingled among the councillors and finally wound up a.
free and easy red-tape ceremony by personally showing
the deputation to the door. That pleased the bevy of
white weskits to fluttering-point.
The farewell dance which Captain Davies, of H.M.S.
Royalist, intended giving on board on 20th inst., had to.
be held at Tattersall’s Hall, owing to the “weather”
forbidding the trip to the ship. The stable-perfume that
hangs in the air of Tattersall’s Hall forms no bar in so
horsey a community as Sydney, and the dance was
thoroughly enjoyed.
The Rose dance, given by twelve maidens of the “Sister-
hood of the Rose,” held at Nithsdale on 15th inst., was
another bright, little social outbreak, at which everybody
enjoyed itself. The proceedings were rosy to a degree,,
all the hostesses wearing these blossoms, which were also,
exhibited in profusion on the supper-table and among the
decorations. Miss Hill wore the prettiest gown—of white
silk and crepe, looped with pink dog-roses ; and Miss
Miller, in a white chiffon skirt over bright blue silk, the
toilet, trimmed in blue ribbon, jewelled in turquoise and
diamonds, also looked exceedingly tasteful.
The first night of “ Porget-me-Not ” at Sydney Garrick
on 23rd inst. drew a nicely-frocked d.o.—the three society
ladies in the Hon. George Goschen’s theatre-party of six
looking especially festive : the chaperone of the occasion
in eau-de-nil silk skirt, with bodice of pale-pink trimmed
with gold bands and clusters of pink flowers ; the others
respectively, in black with sleeves of black water-net,
diamond ornaments; and black tulle powdered in gold
spots with gold butterflies on the shoulder, and opera-
cloak of white satin stamped in silver and edged with
swansdown. In other parts of the house a “ Manola ”
opera-wrap in seal plush lined with yellow satin, the yoke
and high collar in gold embroidery, was equally effective,
and Mrs. B. R. Wise, who came with her husband, wore a
pretty cloak in coffee-brown lined with cream satin and
trimmed with gold embroidery. As the light and airy
“ Stephanie,” Achurch wears three sumptuous coverings-
In Act 1 the jupe of shell-pink lisse and silk, with train
and bodice of forget-me-not blue silk, sleeves anddraperie B
of pink chiffon, and bunches of forget-me-nots everywhere
on the toilet; in Act 2, sap-green velvet bodice and train
lined with coral satin, the front of cream Libert}’, adorned
at neck, waist, and hem with gold sequin trimming ;
coral-red felt hat trimmed with black feather’s, a coral"
red chiffon gamp, and a little red basket completing the
toilet. In the 3rd Act, a Cleopatra costume in Nile-green
velvet, designed in black, the front of golden brown
velvet, half-hidden by long strands of gas-green chiffon ;
immense peacock-feather fan. At the end of the second
act Mrs. Charrington was the undulating recipient of
divers badly-aimed floral offerings, some of which left
their lace paper behind them as they hurtled wildly into
the orchestra.
By the way, it’s rather good to see a crowd of many
society women and an equal number of men come
tumbling into a show under the guise of a theatre-
party. Of course they are a theatre-party, but when
matters are so equal—each gentleman with a lady to
match him—the tout ensemble is awfully like the common
occurrence of each Jack “standing Sam ” for his ownpai-
ticular Jill. As when Club bachelors unite to pay off old
scores with the hostesses of the season by rounding them
up at a theatre-party, it is the bachelors’ entertainment,
of course, but Gussie provides Mrs. Three Stars’ paste-
board, and Cholly puts up for Miss Smiffldns in the good
old gallery way. Or so I am informed by one of them.
Quite a public holiday crush surged out to Randwick
on 25th inst., with Lady Jersey—attended by brother
Rupert No. 2—at the head of affairs, supported by most
of her olive-branches, who viewed the scene with an air of
blas6 indifference that was distinctly edifying. There was
’appy ’oliday dressing on the grand-stand, where the fat
woman in black satin, trimmed with beads, waddled about
with a red plush reticule full of carefully-” weeded ’
sweep-tags, and the gowning generally looked as though
chaos had come again. Everybody was resurrection. The
loyalty of the Australienne doesn’t apparently get as far
as a “noo” frock for the Birthday meeting (which
happened just when autumn garments are beginning
to fray at the lower end), and, consequently,
she is a sort of sartorial tautologist, so to speak, and
her general effect is mouldy. Lady Jersey looked very
well indeed in a gown the colour of a king fox-glove
trimmed with black braiding, tiny bonnet in crimson
velvet and black jet, and black fall—the Jersey juveniles
in tan silk and leghorn hats and feathers, with the
younger son in a sailor suit. Speaking of juveniles, there
was one unfortunate child dressed A la Sheridan in the
‘‘Little Peach,” with a long black silk gaberdine almost
to her ankles, who cut a very queer figure, indeed. Yet
I did not smile. I always waste a vast amount of pity on
helpless infants whose dressing is left to the tender
mercies of a “romantic,” tangle-headed female parent
whose main idea apparently is to attract attention to
herself.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ County Fair.”
Theatre Royal “Taken from Life.”
Criterion “Jane.”
Garrick “Forget-Me-Not.”
Cyclorama Gettysburg.
Aquarium .. Bondi.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “Bridget O’Brien.”
New Bijou “The Idler.”
Alexandra “The Scout.”
Princess’ Sarah Bernhardt Co.
Opera House “ Evangeline.”
Town Hall I Ernest Hutcheson-May 30
' / Albu Concert—June 3.
A large and fashionable audience as-
sembled at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night last. Proceedings opened with “ Hook and
Eye,'’ badly cast and indifferently played, whose
author, Eille Norwood, received and took a call —
but not surely for his wooden acting. Despite a
rather weak concluding act, “Jane,” judging
from its first-night reception, is likely to be one
of the biggest successes in the B. and B. calendar.
Excellently played and staged (Hedley Church-
ward’s interior is chaste and original), it is
broadly farcical and contains so many lines
susceptible of doubtful interpretation, that it is
bound to catch on. Jane, played by Pattie
Browne, who received a warm reception, is
parlourmaid at the bachelor-quarters of Charley
Shackleton (Cecil Ward), a selfish spendthrift,
who, in order to draw an increased allowance,
has informed his guardian that he is a husband
and father. Guardian Kershaw (Arthur Law-
rence) suddenly announces his intention of
coming to remonstrate with the extrava-
gant, supposititious wife, and Charley, hav-
ing vainly endeavoured to induce his fiancee,
Lucy (Brenda Gibson), to fill the vacancy, bribes
Jane (secretly married to William (Brough),
Charley’s butler, that morning) to take the position
for twenty-four hours, and they go off to buy her
dresses and jewels. Meanwhile Kershaw arrives,
and William, not knowing of Jane’s promotion,
induces an amorous old frump, Lucy’s widowed
aunt (Missßomer), to receive him as Mrs. Shackle-
ton. Just then the shoppers arrive and the
curtain falls on the bewildered guardian, the
horrified valet w'ho has lost a wife, the perplexed
swell who has found two, and the rest of the com-
pany variously flabbergasted. The aunt got rid
of somehow 7 , the fun in the next act is chiefly
built upon the jealousy of William, w 7 ho is uncere-
moniously ordered about by his wife and mistress,
and driven to madness by the way she is kissed,
hugged, and lolled about with by the benevolent
idiot, Kershaw, and Charley. More fun is
created by the old goose’s request to see the
child; one is borrowed after some trouble
(a badly-dressed, ill-made doll), and the second
curtain falls on its production just after the
well-meaning William had informed the guar-
dian that there “aren’t no sich pusson.” In
the last act trouble begins with the circumstance
that the borrowed baby is twelve months too
young, and another one is invented, two years
old, “at school and winning lots of prizes.” Mr.
and Mrs. Pixton (Mrs. Edouin Bryer and
Olitherow), a termagant and a matrimonial cipher,
next turn up to demand the return of their rag-
babe ; Kershaw gets suspicious; William at
length rebels, and receiving promise of wage-
arrears and £2OO from Kershaw, “blows the gaff.”
The Pickwickian party, however, at length
relents, and agrees to let Charley off the money
fraudulently obtained if he will espouse his Lucy,
a milk-and-water creature, at once, and the curtain
falls. Pattie Browne has a part that just suits her,
in four costumes whose various obligations come
easily. William isabit tooquiet for Brough, though
handled by him with considerable effect in undis-
guised personality. In Charley, Cecil Ward again
scores heavily, and the Kershaw of Arthur
Lawrence is a beautifully-bewigged, excellently-
disguised, loveable, old-style ass. Miss Romer’s
amorous ruin is a very clever study, and all the
other parts are well-played, including the undress
page of Master Plumpton, who is new to us. „
# * -*
Owing to the fact that the lease of the
newly-acquired premises at the Criterion’s rear
(necessary to projected extensions) does not fall in
till June, ’92, the theatre’s alteration will be
delayed till then, but the electric-light will be in-
stalled before summer arrives. James MacMahon
has made arrangements for the production of
“ Evangeline ” at this house on June 28th, a date
on which a few histrions’ engagements expire and
when the full force of the balance of the two com-
panies will be needed for Melbourne revivals.
** * *
Despite the bold advertisement afforded
by Russian cablegrams, “ Siberia ” has not exactly
drawn millions to witness a realistic display, the
horrors of whose massacres, it is suggested, could
only be increased by a wholesale distribution of
gore and bullocks’-liver. “ County Fair,” Neil
Burgess’ play, goes up on Saturday night. This
is the tale of a prim Yankee spinster, who keeps a
farm which, of course, is mortgaged up to the hilt
and from which she is about to be eliminated by
the villain who has designs on her orphan niece,
when Cold Molasses, the surreptitiously-entered
farm-colt, wins the big prize at the county fair
(despite the fact that he has drawn eight people
to the ground in a cart) and frees the farm.
Interwoven, of course, is a love-plot. Eor
this occasion three American artistes will
enter H.M.’s service : Miss Stringham, who plays;
Abigail Prue, the spinster, Virginia Earl (late of
“Evangeline”) as Taggs, the niece, while Prank
Courier, who has been hustling to construct parts
of the racecourse machinery left behind at Liver-
pool, handles Otis, the comedy-merchant, who
eventually espouses Abigail. Three jockeys have
been engaged to assist the member of the company
who rides the winner, in a desperate mile race,
in which the horses never quit the stage, but are
given the appearance of getting over the ground,
by the device of keeping the scenery moving as
they gallop on a sort of treadmill. Things may
be expected to wake up at Her Majesty’s next
week accordingly.
** * *
After twelve weeks’ big business, Bland
Holt begins to pall somewhat on the Sydney appe-
tite for sensation and stereotyped slush. Misfor-
tunes never come singly. Norman’s accident (he
is improving gradually) has been duplicated by
one (somewhat less romantic) which happened to
his fellow-villain, W. H. Seagrave, last week.
Coming to the theatre, he trod on a banana-peel,
fell, and broke the smallbone of his left arm.
Despite this, he struggled through for two nights,
but his place was eventually filled by H. Plimmer.
Seeing “The Bells” again, one is puzzled to
understand how some of the beautiful, if Lyt-
tonnish, lines allotted to Nora, finely delivered by
Maggie Knight, crept into a play of this character.
“ Taken from Tufa.” bv Henry Pettit, was revived


INgSo
rto
W Celeb
no
HEELCR&
1
HEADQUARTERS
—FOR—
Buggies* Phaetons* Waggons* etc*
The P. B. WHEELER CO.,
318 CMtlereach Street, Sydney.
on Tuesday for five nights, and the Opera Com-
pany, “no flies,” open at Sydney Royal on June
2nd for cert.
* * * iK
“ Forgefc-me-Not,” by Herman Merivale
and F. C7Grove, as played at Sydney Garrick, is
a raonohippic show... The Stephanie of Janet
Achurch, over-young even for a woman that
carries age well, is less flinty than that of her pre-
decessor, but also less consistent, and is blemished,
at times, by the prolongation of odd strained
sounds, that would be effective if less lengthily
dwelt on, by angular gestures and occasional
nosings in unnatural attitudes. In short, her per-
formance falls short of greatness in that it Jacks
sub-editing. Of the others, George Leitch, in an
old part, as Prince Malleotti, is easy, consistent,
and intelligent, but lacking, perhaps, in accent; his
foil, Meta Pelham, as Mrs. Foley, is not half-bad.
As Barrato, Herbert Flemming, in a mere outline
study, is all right, but seems to lack the intensity
that suggests “reserved force,” and Emma
Bronton’s Alice Verney is monotonous, colourless
and tame. The de Mohrivart is heavily handi-
capped by association with Charles Charrington,
whom Horace Welby fits as ill as do his trousers,
and whose attempts at the simulation of the
cynical, ready-witted man of the world are as
clumsy as his pedal coverings. W. J. Wilson’s
interior with a garden-view is very pretty. So far,
“Forget-Me-Not” has been doing holiday busi-
ness. “ Devil Caresfoot ” may go up on Saturday
next, and the Achurch season, by arrangement
with W. and G., will be followed by “Our Flat.”
»* * *
With fine weather and thirty-five per-
formers things at Bondi Aquarium boomed on the
anniversary of H.M.’s birthday, and Proprietor
Wyburd contemplates a trip to Europe in a
steamer of his own should things continue thusly.
Eleven thousand cash-customers passed through
the turn-stile on the holiday.
» * * stf
It having happened that Manager Larmou 1 ’
was born on the 24th of May, it was though 1 ’
advisable to postpone the celebration of Vicky’s
for a day so that the two should not clash. Thus
it was that Coogee Aquarium received two coats of
vermilion in rapid succession.
* ** *
That strongly flavoured flower, “ The
English Rose,” has been appreciated in the popular
sets at the Adelaide Royal, but there is really
little merit in the drama, and this, notwithstand-
ing that London audiences have suffered it for
two years. Lawrence Cautley and Harold Russell
have had their old parts, and George Darrell has
had an opportunity of piling on the agony.
George Walton and Shine made the most of their
opportunities, while Dick Stewart, as the priest,
looked uncommonly sad. Christine Darrell has
improved considerably, but has got hold of the
Achurch-Charrington-Cartwright-Nethersole style
of pronunciation, which is annoying. Constance
Deorwyn and Lilian Bryer do themselves credit.
The Adelaide people are now engaged in ponder-
ing over that mysterious drama of George Darrell’s
“Transported for Life.” Krietmayer, with the
fighting marsupial, waxworks, and other novelties,
is at the Town Hall.
»* * *
The Monowai arrived off Sydney Heads
late on Monday night, but, in Bernhardtian
reception interests, lay off until morning, and
steamed up the harbour at an early hour in com-
pany with the steamer chartered by the “Phirm ”
which had anchored during a harmonious and
convivial evening at Watson’s Bay. Tuesday was
bright, warm and clear, and a goodly company—
in which all the arts were strongly represented,
except the histrionic one (there was not a single
actress on board)—steamed from Circular Quay to
Darling Harbour to meet the great French-
woman. Arrived, folks streamed up the side to
the strains of “The Marseillaise,” brayed forth
by a German band into the “ social-hall,”
where the divine Sarah, surrounded by
lovely flowers, stood awaiting the torture that
was eventually hers. It was as good as a play to
see her posed artistically (she slightly resembles
Myra Kemble) with her ruddy hair floating round,
a fascinated look in her dreamy eyes, a faraway
smile on her lips, twiddling a violet between her
white teeth, while Dan. O’Connor, sure (you bet
he was there—will he go and welcome J. L.
Sullivan ?), delivered an oration in which he
said, at least ten times, that “the gift of God-
given genius was not f or a cottery but for the
wurruld,” and strung r ives together in reck-
less profusion. He f*,» d his audience, how-
ever, when he sty I x the diva a native
of “ley bellee Fro’ 'shay,” for a yell of
laughter went up tha lasted for some seconds
and would have disci nfited anyone but Daniel.
But one thing mus, be said in his favour:
never a word ut ered he about William
Charliss Wintworth or Daniel Hinry Dinahee.
Kowalski then spoke, and Dr. de Lambert replied
on behalf of Madame. Everyone circled round
then to be introduced, and - the actress’s small
white hand received many a good Australian
grip. This got over, everyone drifted back to
the little steamer, where wine was served and the
“God-given genius,” who climbed on board over
the rail, made a h'ttle speech in which she thanked
everyone from her heart for their kindness, and
arriving at Circular Quay was driven to the Gros-
venor, amid the cheers of the populace. She was
to be received on Wednesday afternoon at the
Town Hall by the Mayor and Mayoress ere leaving
by train for Melbourne. Sara has already made a
compreliensive “mash”—everyone is already in
love with her, and the women especially don’t
know how to gush enough. We had nearly for-
gotten to remark that Sara, 47 years old and a
grandmother, is.now pleasantly plump and with a
healthy colour on her cheeks, doesn’t look much
more than half her days when compared with
some of our withered Australian buds.
*# * *
“ The Idler,” as now reproduced at Mel-
bourne Bijou, is unlikely to run up to its first
night’s trial. The audience on Saturday came
prepared to find strong situations, and, having
found them, expressed their delight in the usual
manner and went home persuaded that Haddon
Chambers’ tricky story had hit the popular taste.
But recent experience has proved that a city
which sends forth per cent, of the entire popu-
lation to shriek at various football-matches on a
fine half-holiday is a very hard nut to break with
a play like “ The Idler.” It contains no jokes,
dances, clowning, incisive dialogue, or Red
Indians, calculated to split the sides of the body
politic. Spectators who are not buoyed up by
excitement will complain that “ The Idler” only
strikes them at times when they are growing
weary and feel indisposed to be struck very bard.
They will dodge, so far as possible, the blow aimed
at them as each of the intervening curtains falls,
and one drink of Bijou whisky will send them
back to their seats without much recollection of
having been struck at all. The interest aroused
at the end of an act dies away considerably after
ten minutes of the act following. The dialogue,
studded with aphorisms, is dull without
being stupid ; the attempts at humour are
outside of the plot and not at all happy; and
the leading characters are both unnatural and un-
pleasant. It is true that the heroine now drops
her bouquet, in a limp, helpless manner, instead of
tossing it at her pursuer’s feet, but the fact that
she is thereby working a French melodramatic
swindle on the giddy gentleman still sticks out
aggressively. Neither she, nor her husband, nor
her lover, nor the Yankee stranger within her
gates, is a lovable or consistent personage. They
seldom move us, save with their situations—
cleverly contrived out of old materials. Situa-
tions that cast their shadows before, so that it is
only a question, with hardened playgoers, of wait-
ing to see how effectively they will be introduced.
Even the remorse of Mark Cross, born of his
devotion to his mother (suggestive of an Evan-
gelical tract) is foretold with maudlin persis-
SARA BERNHARDT.
tency. Mark’s repentance is a hollow affair,
anyway. The fellow who would take an un-
willing, shuddering woman to his embrace
is more likely to swear at than by his
mother. Or, granting that Mark ivas con-
stantly thinking of the old lady, he would
surely have covered up her picture with a table-
cloth, or something, when he expected Mrs.
Harding to come and meet him by midnight
alone. Why give the mild blue eyes a chance to
stare at his evil carryings-on? With all its faults,
however, “ I he Idler ” is at least the product of a
capable workman, a better-finished and stronger
thing than “ Captain Swift,” to which it bears a
family resemblance. The performers who sup-
ported Cartwright and Miss Nethersole in Sydney
are now, with one exception, replaced by the
Bijou Company, but it cannot honestly be said
that the result is excellent when judged by B. and
B. rules. Titheradge is a red, awkward, kind of
Sir John Harding, giving everybody the impres-
sion that his act of manslaughter in Golden
Valley wasn’t much of an accident. Bouci-
cault’s assumption of American millionaire-
ism is also uneasy, nor does he talk and
dress the part of Simeon as though he had
actually lived in New York. He requires more
“push” and “smartness,” likewise a coat with
tails to it, and a glossier bell-topper. Mr. Merry-
weather seems to be representing George Anson,
and Miss Watt-Tanner is the necessary mother,
as in Sydney. Miss Enson and Emma Temple
do everything possible with their fragile parts,
the latter lady throwing herself at Simeon’s head
with exceptionally girly ingenuousness. Cart-
wright’s worst mannerisms are always apparent
in his present character, and the force with which
he rises 'to each big occasion would be none the
less if he rose in a better “get-up’’and didn’t
shout so often. Miss Nethersole repeats her
Sydney success. She is so sweet that it seems
monstrous to object to her way of carrying her
head. To be allowed to carry it at all is a proud
privilege. B. and B. have mounted “ The
Idler,” with a< tender regard for the possibility of
a long run. It is an elegant show.
** * *
“The Old Guard,” after presenting arms
to the divine Sarah, will retreat from Melbourne
Princess’ this Friday nierht—in full marching
order, and with banners floating triumphant on
the wintry breeze. For an opera that is thin in
orchestration, and unremarkable for melodies,
“The Guard” has scored a quite phenomenal
success. The singers, with their lays, are little
more than lay figures throughout. Now, as in
the first notice, the entertainment may be termed
a savoury ragout of Elton, spiced with a delicate
suspicion of can-can dancing. Mrs. Royoe, herself
the pupil of a famous mistress in old Mrs. Con-
quest, has worked wonders with her bevy of fair
young kickers, and many a Melbourne Johnnie
feels like warbling, after Tom Moore, “Oh! the
last rays of feeling and life must depart, Ere the
bloom of that bally shall fade from my heart.”
From Elton, in the snappiest London English,
to Bernhardt, in the most mellifluous Parisian
French, is a bold move. “ The greatest of living
actresses ” opens in “ Camille ”on Saturday. On
Monday she will teach the callow young critics
how Mrs. Brown-Potter ought to have played
“La Tosca,” and for Tuesday they have “Fedora”
in rehearsal. Circumstances will guide the man-
agement in their choice of bills for the three nights
following, and circumstances will probably point
to “La Tosca.” In the meantime The Bulletin
warns sassiety against over-loading Sarah with
floral tributes, because she only boils them down
into soup for her tame tiger. The surest way to
win the goddess’s regard will be to throw her an
iguana or a native bear. Sarah would be deeply
touched by a native bear with silver bells attached
to its suitably-inscribed collar. A small kangaroo
would likewise strike home to her heart.
“ Bridget O’Brien ” (the “ Esq.” ought to
be dropped) is doing substantial business at the
Royal, notwithstanding that the variety show
attached to this tragedy is rather a drug on the
market just at present. A good word tor Ima-no’s
warble was omitted last week, when a minor
note of admiration for the Little Peach duet should
also have been included in the summary of events.
But, after all, it is Sheridan’s bright and decorous
picture of the raging Widdy that people come out
for to see, and when she melts into medley the
spectacle reminds one of the glittering nightmare
that waits upon a pork-chop supper. They cer-
tainly breed strange ideas of art in America— the
dramas and comedies of Emmett, Sheridan,
Minnie Palmer, Katie Putnam, Carrie Swain and
Co., for examples. It’s surprising that Edwin
Booth has never supplemented ‘ ‘ Hamlet ” with a
harlequinade.
** * *
At the Opera House they are getting
ready to withdraw “Evangeline” when it shall
have completed a game struggle extending over
five weeks and a bit. Catherine will soon cease
chortling “Into the water we go-o-oh,” prepara-
tory to bathing in a dry ocean with all his
beautiful clothes on. “The Lone Fisherman” is
about to leave off vegetating upon his monotonous
camp-stool, and the heifer is on his last legs,
so to speak. The bead-clad Amazons will not
glitter in the lime-light’s gleam after June 2nd,
for on the following night an “inauguration (the
enterprising M‘Mahons are terrors for inaugurat-
ing) of a new season of comic opera ” will come
to pass. Clara Merivale and Company in “ Poor
J onathan, ”
** » m
“ The Scout,” with its eye-opening sensa-
tions and Wild Western devices, is blowing great
guns at the Alexandra. Dr. CatftepnoW speaks
up as a giant should, and his new Jiorse drops
tamely into the water without turning ‘a hair.
The Indians yell more savagely than at first,
which adds to the terrors of the night, whilst Lily
Dampier is coming out as a shooting star undei
Carver’s tuition. She can open a bottle of whisky
with a bullet at a considerable range, and if that
enterprising maiden should spot a burglar in the
back yard, he will do well to close his career of
crime with a short prayer. Miss Lily is a more
killing girl than ever. ;
** * *
A complimentary concert is being arranged
for the Misses Albu, and will come off with ccldt.
judging from the warm feeling that is being shown
in the cause, at Melbourne Town Hall on Wed-
nesday next (June 3). Rev. Charles Clark has
lectured his last at the Athenaeum, but the minstrel
shows, &c., are continued as usual.
** m *
The gaudy mummery of a “Military
Church Parade ” was perpetrated at Melbourne
Anglican Cathedral, last Sunday afternoon, when
about 12J0 men in full buckram clanked into the
tabernacle. This religion-cam-breechloaders
spectacle was patronised by Lord Hopetoun and
sundry civilians of the lay-’em-out persuasion, in-
cluding ladies who came to dote on the captings
and things. After Bishop Goe had explained how
Hingland’s present greatness is due to the per-
sonal character of V.R. the choir sang “God Save
the Queen,” accompanied by the organ and a brass
band —and possibly the Lord saw that it was good.
But of this The Bulletin has its doubts.
** * #
The matinee benefit to the shipwrecked
mariners was a big success at Melbourne Royal,
more than £3OO being seated or stood up in the
house. A well-assorted and quick change enter-
tainment included items from everywhere but the
Bijou, whose company had “The Idler” in
rehearsal at the time. Under these circumstances,
Mr. Boucioault generously chipped in for a
“ tenner’s ’’-worth of tickets and added a donation
from self and partner.
At Poverty Point.
Lady Violet Greville, who bemoans in magazines the
decline of the British drama, has written and produced a
trivial farce entitled “ The Baby.”
“Pony ’ Moore, the Christy Minstrel man, observes
that all eminent artists black their faces at some time or
other—when they play Othello, for instance.
it is on record that James Anderson once received £l2O
a week for a “ star" season at London “ Brit.,” a theatre
where prices range from two shillings downwards, espe-
cially downwards.
The new Coppin regime at Melbourne Royal will com-
mence in another fortnight or so, and the alterations to
the old house are expected to be finished by July 25.
Laura Yilliers, who comes over as leading lady, is the
sister of the Grapuid “ war artist,” and niece to Villiers,
of the Pavilion Music Hall. A pretty girl, and quite
young, considering.
About eighty season tickets (£l2 each) for Sarah Bern-
hardt had been sold in Melbourne up to last week. The
tickets are transferable and will probably meet all the
requirements of 300 people, more or less'. By the way,
there is a wide prevailing doubt in sassiety as to whether
Sarah and company act in French or English, but the
Finn will, of course, prevent any gasps of astonishment
on the first night by announcing the truth beforehand.
Somebody expresses a hope that Haddon Chambers’
now play, “ The Pipe of Peace,” will draw well.
One of Dr. Carver’s Indians is already troubled with a
consuming passion for Lily Dampier. This susceptible
savage doesn’t indite odes to the eyebrow's of Miss D., or
turn pale under his w'ar-paint every time he hears her
footfall tinkling by the margin of the Alexandra tank, but
ho loves as the last of his tribe never loved before, all the
same for that. Directly Lily puts in an appearance at
rehearsal this hired barbarian breaks out in weird emo-
tional gruntings. Then, pointing to Lily and himself
alternately, he says “ Her !”—“ Me !” or “ Me Her 1”
just. like a bit out of a Fenimore Cooper romance. Anon
the gloating redskin slaps the place where his pocket is
supposed to be and grunts “Dollars!” After which the
frightened damsel usually makes a bolt for her dressing-
room, remarking “This is too horrible!” or something
equally suitable to such a situation. One morning the
Indian managed to creep up to Lily from the rear and
chop off the tail of her sash with his little axe, afterwards
tieing the trophy round a wisp of his bonny black hair.
The flash in Lily’s lustrous orbs, when she observed the
fag-end of her habiliment fastened to the thatch of her
dusky idolater, was worse than lightning against a stormy
sky, but the Choctaw didn't die of shame by any means.
He merely went on with his “Me!”— “Her!”— "Dollars!'’
until Dr. Carver thought it was time to sit upon him.
This never-ending love-suit has its serious side. The Wild
West Indians are not half as tame as people imagine, and
Dampier is haunted by the fear that Lily’s mash may one
day make a mad rush for the leading lady and eat her in
despair. Then he wdll place both hands upon his corpora-
tion and grunt “ Her!”—“ Me !”
Jennie Lee has been playing “Jo” to big business at
Wellington, Maoriland.
Ernest Hutcheson, the boy-pianist who was sent to
Europe by subscription some few years ago, will make his
re-appearance as a young man at Melbourne Town Hall,
on May 30th. German critics speak highly of Ernest's
recent performances.
The Montague-Turner operatives play in Bathurst on
May 1 and the three following nights, opening in
“ Maritana.” “Jack” Leete is in front.
Professor Baldwin's Butterfly Company are in South
Africa.
Heller’s Odds and Ends Company is working from
Young towards Bourke.
The Australian Athletic Club having burst up through
lack of patronage, after 12 months’ trial, Larry Foley has
determined to do what he should have done 12 months
ago, and will open the Gaiety as an athletic-hall, under
the style of the Olympic Club, on June 2.
Williamson and Garner would not be heartbroken even
if they dropped a thou, or two over Sara, because the
prestige of Sara, Toole, Gaiety, and the like, gives them a
slight pull in London over other managers, for whatever
may be going. A fortnight ago every Melbourne quid-
nunc said Sara would fail—financially, but now the note
has changed. W. and G. are satisfied that, so far, they
could not do better. It is like the Melbourne Cup, a
dead lull always before the rush. It is fancied that the
other Jimmy made a mistake in letting M'Mahon mop up
all America. London people have ample choice, with
four Melbourne managements straining every nerve.
David Christie Murray has sailed for England in the
Oruba, taking with him a new novel and the nucleus of
an Australian dramatic company, including Alice Dudley
and Mrs. L. Greenwood(who are they?) for which he intends
to write dramas, and leaving behind him the statement
that he would never forget the two years, the happiest of
his life, spent in the Australasian bush. Murray is a
manly and unaffected soul of sound Bohemian instincts.
We wish him luck !
Sir Henry Parkes was 76 years old on
Wednesday, 27th May.


PULVERMA-CHER’S
WORLD-FAMED
Electric Belts and Appliances.
As recommended and prescribed by the most
eminent physicians throughout the world.
THE ONLY GENUINE ONES.
The most Simple, Effectual and Rational Cure
for Sciatica, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Paralysis,
Nervous Debility, and other nervous, muscular
and functional maladies.
Pamphlets and full information on application.
FROST & SHIPHAM,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
474 & 587 GEORGS STREET. SYDNEY.
Melbourne; AlliSOn Bros., 418 Chancery Lane.
WE SELL FOREIGN STAMPS.
WE BUY OLD STAMP COLLECTIONS.
P. A. VIUDIKT & CO..
THE STAMP DEPOT, • • i
1 Victoria Arcade, Euzabrth and Castlereach Streets, SYDNEY,
STAMP ALBUMS, and everything required by Stamp
Collectors. Price Lists and all information gratis.
or EARLY AUSTRALIAN STAMPS
off Letters dated 1849 to 1860. High
Prices Paid : Cash Down.
The “3|nglidh” Typewriter,
SIMPLEST AND BEST.
VISIBLE WRITING
Unlimited Speed. Perfect Alignment,
Least Wearing Points.
PAMPHLET FREE, from
lE. 3E3. DE3I3Gr3E3, manager,
334 Clarence Street, Sydney
Tales of the Old Regime.
No. VIII.—The Burial at Govett’s Leap.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Turn out the pris’ners !”
The Sergeant of the Guard revolves on his heel
at Lieutenant Achison’s order, and passes on the
eomjnand.
“No. 1 -—make ready—with elevated muzzle —
Fire I” And the right-hand man of the rank of
soldiers points his musket to the mist-veiled
heavens, and sends the rousing shot echoing
through the gorges and valleys.
Before the first echo returns within the
Stockade-gate the '’Civil Side overseers who are
standing by the doors of the three caravans (as
the men of the Old Regime termed them,
“boxes” as a great Bishop called them, and
“ hells-on-wheels,” as they were known among
such of the convicts as strove to keep a soul
within their bodies) fling open the hinged slabs,
and cry, with one voice :
“ Turn out, men, turn out!”
Needless to say the “ men ” obey. The System
lias a weakness for facilitating early rising by the
“cat.” Even on Sundays its children were not
allowed that extra snooze which is the preroga-
tive of free Britons on Sunday morning all the
world over. Not at least in the forenoon. They
could sleep in the afternoon if they wished—-and
sleep were possible. That to them was the
advantage of Sunday. It is a Sunday this day of
our story.
* # *
The Blackheath road-gang is, save one
(that at Mount Yittoria*), the farthest in location
from Sydney of the long line of chain-gangs which
are making accessible to a wider civilisation the
virgin plains of the Great West. Civilisation has
already established some of its refining agencies
beyond the Blue Mountains. There is a twofold
township at Bathurst —a “free” side and a
“ bond ” (now Kelso), in which are already
existent a chapel and a school, a gallows, and at
least two sets of triangles—one for military use
and the other for the edification of transports.
And even beyond Bathurst, the foremost ripples
of the advancing waves of settlement and progress
are fretting against the Boundary. For, already,
at Molong, there is one military-post and a
triangles, and at Wellington Valley there is
another military-post and another triangles. But
the iron-gangs go no further than the Mount as
yet. _
It is not the important “ settlement ” that it is
to prove a few years hence, this Blackheath Stock-
ade, and its greatness is overshadowed by the
Stockade at Mount Vittoria where the mighty
work of cutting the Pass is soon to be begun.
Here there are only some 38 prisoners, three over-
seers, nine soldiers, one sergeant, and one subal-
tern, At the Mount there are already 150 trans-
ports, 10 overseers, 30 privates, 5 “non-coms,” a
surgeon, a subaltern and a full captain, and in a
year there will be 500 convicts and a correspond-
ing increase in the military strength. But Lieu-
tenant Achison redeems the Blackheath Stockade
from insignificance.
The Lieutenant is an altogether exceptional man
for —will you believe it ?—he is beloved by the
convicts. Through fire and water would they go
for him. In the Invalid Depot, at Launceston,
Tasmania, which the tender heart of a man of the
New Regime has surrounded with exquisitely-
gardened grounds so that not a few storm-lost
convict souls may glide quietly to haven amid
placid beauty, we asked, four or five years ago, of
an old man tiiis question :
“Now, tell us was there never in the old days
any officer who treated you as well as Mr. Jones
does now ? ”
“ Never’un, sor! On’y, sor, Major Achison
wot was Left’nant at Black’eath w’en I was on th’
roads, oh ever’slong sunce, ’e’d ’a done it, sor, if
’e’d cud! ”
“ What do you mean,” we asked—knowing full
well what the reply would be—“by ‘if he
could ?’ ”
“ ’Cos th’ Systum didn’t let ’im.”
The chasm from the Old to the New Regime,
the measureless distance between the Twenties
and the Eighties which was yet embraced
within the scope of one man’s life, had
been bridged by the subtle influence of a kindly
nature. And the more we learnt of Achison as he
was on the Mountains in the late Twenties and
the Early Thirties, at Hobart Town, in the Middle
Thirties and Forties, and at Norfolk Island in the
late Forties, the more we knew of his goodness—
the deeper became our conviction that he was
an exception—a phenomenon. He hardened as
the years rolled on, but, tested by the gauges of
the System, he was never hard.
* # #
It was with a shudder of sympathy that
the Lieutenant watched the gangers turn out.
Could he but have his wish he would permit them
stop on their planks a little longer, so wretched
was their appearance. “These men who had
gone to rest overnight physically exhausted by
their week’s labour! Great heavens—who’d have be-
lieved they had ever known a sleep ! ” This was his
thought—which entered his head only to be driven
out by another thought that even if he could send
them back to their roosting cages, would he do
so? And he shuddered again as he reflected
that he would not. Why ? You shall know part
of the reason - the full reason dare not be printed
dare not to be spoken of even—is only to be
whispered to grown men when they discuss the
things which were done in the brave days of old.
* * *
The overseers went down the accursed
rank and straightened them for muster. Thirty-
five men drew up in the. line. The Senior-Over-
seer, the mustering official, pulled a long narrow
book from Ids pilot-coat pocket, and, saluting,
looked towards the Lieutenant, who, catching the
glance, mutter-ed the monosyllable
“ Muster ! ”
The section of twelve men which issued from
No. 1 Caravan, was mustered by name and num-
ber, and the Senior-Overseer informed the Lieu-
tenant that: “No. 1 is right, sir.” He knew it
beforehand did Senior-Overseer Higgs, for “No.
1 ” was his special charge, and as his men tumbled
out from the “hell” into the fresh morning air,
he had counted them. That man intended to rise
in the Service if he could.
He mustered No. 2. Which was right also.
But No. 3 was not right. Eleven men only
reply. James Tinsley, 18, colonial convict, from
Van Dieman’s Land, is missing. Overseer No. 3
(Dent) looks flurried. He was not particularly
ambitious of rising in the System, as he had fixed
his desires on a certain bulky Sydney widow with
a small but profitable pot-house, and he was con-
sequently not very alert in details of supervision.
Still, to lose a prisoner was dangerous, and as the
mustering overseer gazed at him for an explana-
tion, he feels and looks discouraged.
“I’ll swear I locked him up last night!” he
pleaded in deprecation of the coming rebuke.
The Senior-Overseer faced Lieutenant-in-Com-
mand and made report.
, “James Tinsley, mustered with No. 3Yan over-
night, sir, missing. No. 14 in gang-roll, per Brig
Vansittart from Hobart Town,”
The Lieutenant appeared unmoved. But in his
heart he was glad. If only Jim had got away
safe! —for he had a genuine liking for one-time
merry Jim, had the Lieutenant, and wished him
well out of the network of mountains and gorges
which had tempted so many transports to freedom
—and to death.
“Tinsley, is it? Overseer Dent, what do you
say ?” ’ 3
“ I locked him up, sir. I did, sir, all right. He
was mustered in yes’night.”
‘‘lnterrogate the men.”
The Senior-Overseer turned to the late contents
of No. 3 Van, and proceeded to ask for informa-
tion as to their knowledge of Tinsley’s movements.
The first man interrogated “’adn’t seen ’im
since yes’day !” This with a grin.
The second made a like response; so did the
third, the fourth, and the fifth ; each man grinning
as he answered, and exchanging with the others
A POSER.
PRISONER (found guilty of murdering a woman): “I would not have cut her throat had I
known I had not the courage to cut my own afterwards.”
GENTLEMAN OF THE JURY : “Whoi didn’t ye cut yer own fust?”
of his section amused glances. There was some-
thing behind this similarity of retort, that was
evident, and the officials concluded it was a com-
mon knowledge of an escape. The soldiers of the
guard grew interested as they heard the answers,
and a convict —one of the two servants who were
not “ van’d ” overnight—and who was passing to
the Lieutenant’s hut with a tray of coffee, stopped
to learn what was in the wind.
It was the sixth man—Jusan—who let out the
little joke. With a laugh as hearty as his wasted
frame could emit, looking towards Lieutenant
Achison, he said ;
“ Why, he’s in the van now, is Mary Jane! ”
A cackling chorus ran up and down the line ;
one or two of the soldiers joined boldly in the
merriment; the convict with the coffee spilt the
liquid as he shared in the laughter; even the
Lieutenant could scarcely forbear to smile. It
wasn’t half a bad joke, as joking went in convict
settlements, thus to take in the Authorities—
Senior-Overseer Higgs was an Authority by virtue
of Act of Council and Regulation—though it was
only for three or four minutes.
Overseer Dent, hearing the words, and not
heeding the laughter, sprang impulsively towards
the van. The iron-clamped doors of “No. 3”
were still apart, aiid the whole of the people on
parade saw his actions, as he peered into the van
and then went into it.
They saw him, too, as he emerged, after the
sound of a heavy thump on the deck of the vehicle
had revealed the fact that he had pulled down—
something—from a shelf to the floor.
When he emerged he dragged with him the half-
dead carcase of James Tinsley. This, was the joke
of the contents of Van No. 3. They knew the
boy had been on a top-plank all the time.
# * *
The Senior-Overseer and his junior Dent
spoke together in their indignation at the joke.
_ “Yes, he’s here, Mr. Higgs, and Mr. Achison,
sir ! He’s shirking, sir !” This from Dent.
“What did you pris’ners mean by stating you
hadn’t seen him since yesterday?” This was
Higgs’ demand.
The first man of No. 3’s section answered that
he had spoken the truth. He hadn’t seen “Mary
Jane ” since lock-up overnight. He himself was a
“ bottom-planker,” and “Mary Jane” was top,
and he was first out that morning. The second
man and the third were also bottom-plankers,
and they’d take their davys they’d not seen Jim
since overnight. Much the same answer came
from the others who had before spoken. “The
hell was dark,” said one, “an’he c’u’dn’t see in
th’dark!” And the other “’ad felt Jim base’
was a-gettin’ hup, but ’ad never seed the y’ung
’tin.”
Literally, these answers were true. Once the
doors of the vans were banged to, no light could
enter into the conveyance, save that which pene-
trated the double row of holes—one, an inch from
the decking, the other two inches from the roof,
which furnished ventilation, and these were prac-
tically closed by the bodies of the convicts who
were accommodated on the top and bottom planks
respectively. In the doors were fixed gratings,
but an iron lid always dropped over these narrow
interstices, unless it was lifted noiselessly by a
vigilant overseer —its pivot was kept well-oiled to
that end—for the purpose of detecting the crime
of conversation. It was a grievous crime for con-
versation to take place between sun-down and sun-
up, between occupants of the caravans ; very
grievous, to be put down with a strong foot.
Literally, these answers were correct. Techni-
cally, they were false, and therefore insubordinate.
To be insubordinate was to commit the unpardon-
able sin.
With an angry flush adding an unnecessary
tinge of ruddiness to his fresli features, Senior-
Overseer Higgs once more faced the Lieutenant-
in-Command.
“ I report these men, sir, for prevarication.
They attempted to deceive me, sir, on specific
enquiry. Regulation 43, sir !”
There was a malice in Higgs’ tones which every-
one noticed —everyone, that is, except poor Tinsley,
who was beyond noticing anything. The prisoners
ceased to indulge in their laughter (the very
phantom of wholesome merriment), and the
Lieutenant’s face fell into shadow. The matter
had grown serious once a formal complaint was
lodged. No matter what the commander
thought in such a case, he had no option but
to administer the Regulations, which distinctly
commanded him to investigate every charge of
insubordination or deceit preferred against a
prisoner or prisoners when formally made. Next
to mutiny, there was nothing the Regime detested
so strongly as a lie. The Regime was moral.
Achison had blessed in many an instance where
the System banned, but he could only do so with
safety when he could take ad vantage of some loop-
hole in the Regulations. Here, on this Sunday
morning, trifling though the offence was in his
eyes, the Regulations made it serious. And there
was no loophole, no shadow of a crack, in Regula-
tion No. 43. So
“Do you press the charge, Mr. Higgs?” he
enquired, after a moment’s reflection.
“ Yes, sir, I do press it!”
Higgs being an aspirant for increased place and
emoluments, considered the System was getting
under weigh to the Devil if the Law and the Regu-
lations were not enforced with the utmost rigour,
and he had a dozen times already ventured to insinu-
ate to the higher powers that the Lieutenant-in -
Command was not sufficiently System-atie. Now
that his vanity, that excessively sensitive vanity
of the low-class official, had been hurt by the
prisoners’ paltry joke, he was going to heal the
smart on homcepathic principles if he could. Like
to like ; the prisoners’ smarting should cure his
own. He pressed the charge.
“Bring them up after breakfast, then, Overseer.
Now complete the muster, and report what is the
matter with Tinsley. ”
“No. 14, Tinsley, James—why don’t you
answer, pris’ner?”
James Tinsley, being in the drowsy stupor
which is to precede his last sleep, fails to answer.
A pause of a full minute is broken by the Lieu-
tenant :
“Don’t you see he’s ill, Mr. Higgs? Report,
sir, at once.”
“Please, sir, ‘Mary Jane’—l mean Tinsley,
sir, was a-taken very bad in th’ night, sir. He’s
croakin’, sir.” The eleventh man of No. 3 Van so
speaks.
“Why didn’t one of you call out?” demanded
the Lieutenant, as he strode towards the sick boy.
The man saluted, as he replied with a grim
reminder : “ We rec’lected Smith, sir—Smith of
the Emu Plains readers, sir!” (Smith of the
Lapstone Hill iron-gang, had called out in agony
one night for water, and had been given a bayonet
by the sentry—as per Regulation. They buried
Smith, and possibly—there is no record —repri-
manded the sentry. It is also possible they pro-
moted him.) “Then why not report when you
came out ?”
Again the man saluted, again he replied: “We
hadn’t been a-mustered, sir—mustn’t speak till
mustered !”
“Well !” thought Mr. Higgs, with indignation,
“ would the Gov’ment believe that a pris’ner had
to teach an officer his business !” He’d remember
that, he would, and would let it be known in the
proper quarter some day, that he would.
* * *
Lieutenant Acliison saw the lad was dying.
The hue of the cadaver was gradually stealing
over the worn features, and as he gazed, the
human within him rose and swept with a tide of
pity over the instincts of the Official.
“ Here, one of you, off to my quarters and bring
me a flask standing on my shelf.”
Of course the command was to the prisoners.
No soldier could move ; no free officer would think
of moving.
Jusan started for the hut with such celerity as
his irons would allow. While waiting for the
spirit the Lieutenant stooped and raised Tinsley’s
head. Then he recalled himself to his duty, and
speaking to the Senior-Overseer ordered the men
to breakfast.
There was a clanking of irons as the men shuffled
half-about and stepped slowly to the overhanging
shed where the buckets of “smiggins”j were
waiting to satiate their appetites, 'there, grouped
in messes of six, they dipped their pannikins into
the stuff, while the Senior-Overseer read Grace
and watched that others did not steal the portions
due to Jusan and Tinsley.
Jusan did not return promptly. He could have
gone to the hut and return to the spot in front of
the caravans in a couple of minutes. The Lieu-
tenant-in-Command grew impatient—the lad was
dying—a nip of the whisky might, at least, ease
his pain, if it failed to rouse him from his deathly
apathy—why did the man not come ?
“Dent, see what’s up with that pris’ner. Or,
stay —hold Tinsley’s head.”
Higgs, from beneath the shed, was momentarily
amazed to see his junior relieve the Lieutenant
and the latter pass rapidly to the hut. The
System was, indeed, due for the Devil when all
this fuss was being kicked up over a sick boy-con-
vict, who was, very likely, not sick at all—only
“ shamming Abram.”
He was not amazed, however, at the next de-
velopment of affairs. Wise after the event, he
remarked to himself that was “just what might
have been expected.” For a commotion in the
neighbourhood of Officers’ Quarters drew his
eyes in that direction.
Holding Jusan by the collar with his left hand,
Lieutenant Achison angrily pushed the transport
through the doorway with the other. Jusan still
held the flask in his hand. It was empty.
“Here, guard—overseer—double-iron this man.
And, Mr. Higgs, produce him for punishment
after breakfast.”
The whole Stockade understood. Jusan had
drunk the Lieutenant’s spirits. That was why
he was so prompt in obeying the Officer’s instruc-
tion.
“Achison might ha’ known it! ” said Higgs to
Dent later. “Put liquor into a pris’ner’s grasp-
why, in Major Lockyer’s time he’d ha’ been
cashiered for the same. I don’t blame Jusan ! ”
* # #
And Tinsley, what of him 1 He was get-
ting away safely over the gorges and valleys.
It is doubtful whether the spirit would have
done more than impart a spasmodic vitality to
the boy’s debilitated constitution, or whether it
would have kept him an hour longer from his grave
in the head of the Grose valley. The Lieutenant,
in after days, used to solace himself with that
thought. Within a few moments of the Officer’s
return to the lad’s side, he watched the last tremor
shake the recumbent form, and knew that over
the Valley of the Shadow, gloomier than any that
hemmed in the site of the Stockade with their
fathomless sombreness, the convict’s soul was
speeding to the sphere of a very different Regime.
It was not the first convict-death by many
that Achison had witnessed, but none had touched
him so deeply, for in no other case had he wit-
nessed the gradual decay of all that was physi-
cally and morally worth preserving in a convict’s
nature.
He had stood by while, on Pulpit Hill, they had
stopped a caravan and had taken from a shelf a
canvas-clad transport wdio craved to die in the sun-
light. He had sighed over the man who had
invoked his mercy to convey a message to his
father. “ ‘ The Rev. , M.A., Rector of
,’ —I am his son !”
He had stood by when another “gentleman”
had taken his leave of life in this very Stockade—
a gentleman who “ threw back ” to the gentle-
hood which he had bartered for the husks of the
penal styes, in the last moments which the System
granted him, and who had entreated the Lieuten-
ant to transmit a tender, last letter to a lonely
manor-house in sleepy Dorset. “It’ll be my last
lie to my wife !” the Condemned had said. “I’ve
told her many; and none to save her pain—only
this. Let her think, Lieutenant, I died—ldied-
not as I die !”
Those deaths had touched him somewhat,
because they were men of his class. This one of
Convict James Tinsley, alias Luffy Ned, alias
“ Mary Jane,” touched him more deeply still.
He had liked the boy for his own sake since he
had been mustered into the gang at Penrith.
Then the lad was round-faced, merry, laughter-
loving. Coming under sentence from Hobart
Town, for horse-stealing—a boyish freak—he was
too young to realise all the infamies of the Regime
and the System. Knowing what he (Achison)
knew of the caravans in which it was customary to
lodge the members of the road-gangs, he shuddered
that day of the first muster at the prospect before
the bright boy once he was “van’d.” Had he
had power he would have prevented the lad going
into the itinerating “hell.” He had no power,
of the late “ Twenties ” and “ Earlv Thirties”
always referred to this historic hill as “ Vlttoria.” “ Vic-
toria’’was a loyal afterthought of Major Mitchell’s, in
t An old Newgate term, which was frequently used by
road-gangers to describe their ration of rice or maize when
it was mixed with the water in which their meat-ration
had been boiled.


PINN BROTHERS & CO.
(Successors to Mr. E. P. Flanagan),
I'ATHOLIC: BOOKBGUGKS, STATIONERS, Ac. r
686 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
(Near Bathurst Street.)
AH the latest Books and Periodicals by every mail at
PUBLISHED PRICES.
Dublin Freeman, Labour World, United
Ireland, Irish Catholic, Aye Maria, Catholic?
Times. Universe Shamrock, &c m &c.
The London & Sydney Tea Co. supply squatters
and fanners at wholesale prices. _______
WORMS IN CHILDREN Watson's ginger^
BREAD WORM NUTS, a perfectly eafe and certain remedy,
in an agreeable form. Sold by the leading Storekeepere, and
by ‘boToprletor. Joan Wat*o*. Cl.emUt, 681 George Street.
- • In Boxes, la. • by Fort, 1». 2d.
MAGIC LANTERN BUREAU.
tttF DEAL in all kinds of MAGIC LANTERN APPa
W E RATUS (Oil or Limelight). We HIRE LANTERNS,
SLIDES, etc., for Lectures, by the NIGHT, or for any
period We EXCHANGE SLIDES, and Sell on Commis-
sion any Lantern Apparatus. Lectures accompany al
Sets. We can supply almost every known Set or hlide, 01
make any Slide to order.
Newest and Latest Sets by every Maid,
mw- write to us for any particulars connected with the
** Lantern.
Pamphlet and Price List free anywhere on application.
Save Money by Dealing with
“IWCY O lE* TI O I
11. S. JERDAN & CO.
(Late with Messrs. Frost and Shipham),
Optician* Electricians, Piiotoorapiiic & Maoic Lantern
’ Stock Dealers,
462 George Street, Sydney.
Write to us on any subject connected with our business.
It is no trouble to answer questions.
although he was in command of the gang. The
Regulations were peremptory on the P°‘nt ot
showing favoritism to a transport. _ A harder
man would have been less conscientious m his
obedience to the Rules. Aohison obeyed them—
and James Tinsley, aged 17, went into the
caravan on that first night at Emu Plains with
only one aims: - When he came out the next
morning with an ineffaceable terror drawing out
the plumpness from his cheeks, he owned a second
hour, the lad deteriorated. Aohison
when he could, saved him from awful companion-
ship in'the day ; from that of the night, there was
no saving him—the Regulations were peremptory.
He was too young for a billet, even if the Regula-
tions had permitted the Lieutenant to appoint so
recent a convict when there were nominal good-
conduct ” men of longer alliance with the Regime
hungry for such. But the Regulations through
which an indurated unscrupulous officer could
have driven a chain-gang and a dozen caravans
were to Aohison, holding an exaggerated sense of
his duty, binding and ineradicable.
All that he could do for the lad was, when, on
Sundays, he made short trips of exploration into
the valleys and gorges of the wondrous Mountain
region to take him in his company to carry a rope
and lunch-bag. In these trips he had, m such
talk as could pass between a Military Officer and
a convict boy, urged Jimmy to keep off the
cross.” Consistently with his allegiance to the
Establishment he could not denounce the Regula-
tions to the lad ; but by precept and by example,
lie strove to revive in Tinsleys heart those
qualities of hopefulness and self-respect which,
once crushed beyond recovery, the convict became
lit for the Inferno. Nino months at Bulpit tuu
and the Stockade had instilled a precocious
bravado into Jimmy ; but, Sunday after Sunday,
as the Lieutenant took him out m the ranges,
Acljison gained courage as ho thought he dis-
cerned a softening of the soul so early encrusted
with the vices of the System. And now—and
now—the boy was dead !
* * *
As he stood over the stiffening corpse, he
recalled a conversation which had taken place
between himself and the boy as they stood, eight
or nine Sundays back, on the brink of the precipice
which was to be known by-and-bye as Lovett s
Don’t, sir—don’t, Mr. Achison !”—Tinsley had
had cried.' “ Don’t go so close—ye may get giddy,
sir.” Achison had swung himself out on a rocky
ledge to view to more advantage the fall (the
“ Leap” proper), with which the wind was sport-
ing now dashing it in mist against the rook and
now puffing it magically into filmy lace, and the
youth, noting the precariousness of the officer s
position, could not refrain from an alarmed shout.
“ Tush, lad, tush ! I’m safe enough ! I think
I’ll try to reach that talus. The view from there
should be very fine. ”
“ The what, sir ?”
“That jutting point of rock below. Sling tne
rope, Jim—l’ll get you to lower me down part ot
the way. Take it round that tree, there.”
“ Oh, Lieutenant, don’t go. I ain’t strong, you
know ”
“The rope’ll help me down forty feet or so, ana
there seems to be a ledge there, and hauled round
the tree, it’ll be safe enough.”
“ Leave it to next week, sir—please do ! ion
can have ’nother man here then.”
“ What are you afraid of, Tinsley ? For me .' ’
“ For you, sir—an’ myself, sir, too. S’pose I
let you drop they’d say I’d-I’d murdered you ! ”
The youth spoke with an earnestness that was not
affected, and Achison, knowing well that the
descent of the precipitous wall was really a dan-
gerous task, consented to postpone his attempt till
more help was at hand.
“ All right, I won’t go down to-day. But
suppose I did drop, Jim, one couldn’t die in a
grander place, could he ? ”
The boy didn’t speak, but gazed long over the
awe-inspiring ravine with its floor of hills and
forests, its formless void, its imprisoned immen-
sity. Then something of the mysterious influence
of the scene —one of those terror-tipped shafts
forged in the arsenal of awe-inspiring Nature
which penetrate to the brain of the unreasoning
and the rude - forced him into dumb tears.
“ Why, Tinsley, why, lad, what’s this ? Gome,
come, no whimpering—be a man ! ’"
The convict-boy threw himself on a slab of rock.
“I can’t help it, sir! It makes me think—l—
shall—never see —mother —again.”
The Officer put out his hand and touched the
boy’s shoulder; other reply he could not fine.
Nor did he speak again till the lad had moaned
another confidence into his ear.
He was looking with his damp eyes to the sky,
which seemed to have borrowed a deeper tint of
blue from the violets and purples which nestled
between the ranges.
“ If I die, Lieutenant, sir, in the roader, don t
bury me ! Throw me over here or somewhere like
this.”
“Die! —what’s put that in your head, dim?
The officer tried to laugh.
“Will ye promise, sir? Do, sir! —in a grave,
sir—oh, it’ll be too much like my plank in the van.
The old men say the grave means freedom, sir.
When I’m free I want to forget the hell-on-wheels
—I want to forget it when I’m dead !”
“ Hold your tongue, Jim —you don’t know what
you’re saying!”
“ I beg pardon, sir, I do ! If I’m cooped up
when I’m—free —l’ll think I’m in the van again,
sir. But to lie at the bottom of the gully, sir—to
draw a breath an’ to know I’m not robbin’ no one
else—to look up an’ know heaven’s above, an’ not
the roof of a hell-on-wheels —oh, that’ll be grand !
Promise, sir, wall you ? You’ve been so good to
me—oh, promise !”
Blaming himself for his foolishness in acceding
to the boy’s silly fancy, Achison had consented.
# * *
That had been eight, nine Sundays ago ?
And now, on this Sunday, Achison recollected.
And when, after breakfast and prayers, and.
that other devotional rite, the reading of the
Regulations, and that further sacred ceremony,
the flogging for theft of Convict Jusan, Senior-
Overseer Higgs presented the five men who had
enjoyed their little joke at his expense, for
enquiry and punishment; and when the Lieuten-
ant-in-Command had found them pjy-j at
other could he do, the evidence and the Kegula
tions being respected ?—he ordered the five a
unusual punishment. . , ~ j j
Which was to carry, sewn in a blanket, the deaa
body of James Tinsley, No. 14 (Colonial-convict)
per Vansittart to the head of the Gorge.
It was a punishment the severity of which wm
not in accordance with Mr. Higgs notions no,
possibly, with the Lieutenant s own for had_ the
offenders spoken earlier, the boy s bfe vmght have
been saved. Still, it was not a light task to bear
the corpse through two miles of dense scrub, and
to bear it reverently. For he took care they
should not hustle it. Though the Regmie had
killed Tinsley, it should show him some respect
at They l low’ered It down by a hundred feet of rope
to a spot midway, so it seemed from above, to the
bed of the gorge. On a rocky fragment it rested.
Achison read a psalm over it. . ,
Three years afterwards, he (now Captain) stood
with Assistant-Surveyor W. R. Govett by the foot
of the Fall, and as he told in part the story we
now narrate, he looked up-up hundreds of feet-
and saw a bunchy protuberance between a chrome-
coloured rock and the blue heavens.
“That’s the spot!” he pointed as he spoke,
“see, I take it the ferns have wound their fronds
round it. Nature can be kindlier than .
“The System? Yes!”
* * •
Achison established a precedent that Sun-
day, which certain old members of the islaok-
heath Stockade remembered when they desired to
bury Senior-Overseer Higgs—alive.
PRICE WARUNG.
An appeal has been made to the inhabitant®
of Liverpool, (Eng.) on behalf of a church o
England incumbent who has a wife and family, is
dangerously ill, has no private means and a
“living” of £26 yearly.
An Argus reporter who understands
French the other day interviewed the
governor of New Caledonia, who can t speak
a word of English, and took down in short-
hand his French remarks. There’s nothing
wonderful in that —the writer once gave, a
verbatim report of an interview with the
capitano of a Spanish man-o’-war at Hobart;
the capitano knew not a word of English
and the reporter not a word of Spanish, and
there was nointerpreter present. Both also
A DELICATE SUGGESTION.
CENSUS-COLIECTOR (who is filling up her paper for her) : “How old did you say your son was,
madam?"
SHE (prompily): "Sixteen"
C.C.: "And now for the last item—your own age? What shall I put you down at?”
SHE: “Twenty-eight.” .
C.C.: “ Don’t you— er—think you’d better make it twenty-nine.
talked at once, and pretended to thoroughly under-
stand each other. The report was a marvel.
The present “finishing schoolmaster” of
Victoria is described by a Bulletin correspon-
dent as “a much better class of man than hang-
men in general, and much superior in appearance
and manner to half the warders over him. His
nom de galloivs is “ Jones ’’-another injustice to
Wales I—but when he is collecting his rents he is
<< o s,” of East Brunswick. When
spoken to about his office he explains—by the way,
at least six hangmen have told us the same story
fchat ** the warders do more of the actual work
of hanging than he does,” and if he “ lets down ’
one who is innocent, that is not his fault, but the
fault of those who put them there. Good old
Jones ! Hemp is apparently just as tough as red-
tape. Nobody is ever responsible.
Ex-Governor Carington is going to publish
some more of his views on Australia. The worst
of the Baron’s views are that most of them were
taken at an acute angle. All the time he was here
he was yawning so violently that his face was in
danger of disappearing down his back, and a man
who is wrenched and contorted into that un-
natural attitude can’t get a good view of anything
unless he goes down on all fours. A plain,
ordinary yawn can be accomplished by simply
dropping the under-jaw so that the patient can
■still look out ahead of him, but Carington couldn’t
Jo that because his breast-bone would have been
in the road—he had to throw all his features oyer
the back of his head, in a manner of speaking, and
he couldn't see anything in that situation. Nobody
■could.
Personal Items.
Damala resembled Majeroni. No wonder
Sarah loved him. _
W. H. Cropper, an old Victorian identity,
has left £56,000 behind him.
Mr. Turner, M.P., still sports his Salva-
tion Army uniform in the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly.
P. B. Macgregor, a recently-ad nutted.
Brisbane barrister, is to be made Chief Justice
Lilley’s Associate. _
Dean Cowper, of Sydney, is believed to be
about the oldest native of Australia belonging to
any of the learned professions. He is 00.
Gladstone’s voice is said to be losing its
old vigour. However, his whisper will go tar
enough if he can only breathe it from the front
Government benches. .
It is whispered in legal circles that Unet
Justice Darley, of N.S.W is anxious to retire,
and that Judge Wmdeyer will succeed. The new
Supreme Court Judge will be Barton.
Dr. Densmore, champion for many years
of a vegetarian diet, in which cereals formed the
principle component, now believes wholly in tr
feeding, and styles bread “the staff of death.
Parkes keenly resents any personal re-
ferences to himself, but in the words of G!en Innes
Hutchison, M.P., he “thinks it honourable to
talk about a man’s bald head.” (Great laughter.)
Overheard at old Jack Robertson’s funeral;
“ There’s John Lucas in that there carriage, ana
his son on the box with the driver. vvny
ain’t he sitting with his father.' Oh, there
ain’t room !”
A Queensland official who advocates shoot
ing down shearers who “ boohoo ” squatters, is
famous in private life for enforcing family disci-
pline in the good old Solomonic style. And the
girls are grown-up, too !
By some curious coincidence, at the pre-
sent moment the world’s greatest men are all
under a cloud of some kind or_ other. Boulanger,
Bismarck, Parnell, John Davies—even Tummy
and Abigail, to a certain extent.
Arthur Hang Gong, the leader of the
Chinese who banqueted Governor Kintore at Port
Darwin, is a native of the Northern Territory ; his
mother hailed from Liverpool, England. It is
rumoured that Kintore recommends him for a
0.M.G.-ship.
At Borah Creek station, adjoining Garra-
willa (Sir Patrick Jennings’), there is still stand-
ing some 3-rail fencing erected over 50 years ago
by old Jack Robertson with his own hands. Jack
meant the brackety thing to hyphen well stand,
and it apostrophe well has stood to this interroga-
tion day.
Caran d’Ache, Paris, is the greatest living
caricaturist. His proper name is_ Poire. His
grandfather was a French officer in Napoleon s
grand army, and married a Muscovite lady.
Poire is very careful to maintain strict decency in
his drawings, and worships the Punch men.
“ Carandache ” is Russian for pencil.
At a Fenian meeting of nearly thirty years
ago treachery was whispered. Bradlaugh, who
was present, drew out a revolver and said, signifi-
cantly : “ The man who betrays me had better say
his prayers directly he comes out of the witness-
box.” Bradlaugh’s name was omitted from the
lists afterwards furnished by the informer Collett.
The ‘“breeze” between Justice Hodges
and Purves, Q.C., in l^lelbourne Supreme Court,
recalls the quarrel between two Sydney prac-
titioners—Mr. William Manning and Mr. James
Martin, who were engaged on opposite sides, as
usual, when the former objected to some line of
examination taken by the latter. Martin s answer
was not, perhaps, over courteous, when Manning
Raid; “Thank God, I am a gentleman.” Mar-
tin’s retort came like a snap : “ We have only the
learned counsel’s word for that.” It was years
before the breach was healed.
Sir John Robertson not long ago was
trying to secure a candidate for-a certain parlia-
mentary vacancy. A certain Sydney newspaper
proprietor (who would fill any “ vacancy”) haying
declined Jack’s nomination, the old man sat, in a
white heat, nursing his wrath at the Reform Club.
Presently a well-known city man blundered in.
“Hello,” said the veteran, cheering up, “you’re
the very man I’ve been looking for. ' I want some
fool to shove in at !” ~
Says Lady Florence Dixie, a member of a
family of cranks —“ For myself, lam not ashamed
to confess it, in that marriage form prescribed by
Church etiquette, in which a woman is bidden
pronounce the words ‘love, honour and obey,’l
did not pronounce them, merely substituting ‘er,
er, er,’ in a low voice for them.” In a recent
Anglican marriage in London the clergyman
omitted the “ obey ” at the bride’s request.
The venerable Victorian yarn about
Colonel Smith’s Bombastes boots, which comes to
the surface once more, is about as big a fiction as
“Up, Guards, and at ’em.” The facts of the
matter are, that 20 years ago, the Ballarat
member was a handsome man, with particularly
graceful pedals, so a malign humorist raised the
legend about seven-leagued boots, and averred
that any horse bestridden by the gallant officer at
once took it for granted that he was in shafts.
Thomas O’Grady, Y.C., died last week in
that paupers’ dog-hole, Melbourne Immigrants’
Home, aged 65. His Cross was the emblem of
the abject misery and destitution which is the
portion of all common soldiers who bear arms foi
a monarchy. After spending his best years and
his manly vigour in its service, the Crown allowed
the man who bore the Victoria Cross to die in the
social gutter. And after O’Grady, V.C., had
died, the authorities insolently sent a file of sol-
diers to fire a volley over his grave.
A pretty story is being told in Maoriland
just now about the new Minister of Lands, John
Mackenzie, cockatoo-farmer and sturdy democrat,
to the effect that when some neighbour called tc
see him one day before the last election,
he found the future Minister standing on the
kitchen-table delivering a political address, while
Mrs. Mae. and a crowd of little Macs, sat before
him and constituted an admiring and appreciative
audience. “Hear, hear, daddy; well done,
daddy ! ” shouted the youngsters, as they clapped
their hands at the end of each grand peroration.
They could see the old man had something in him
besides parritch.
The inventor of the now famous “ Wolse-
ley ” sheep-shearing machine was, when in the
old country, a maker of horse-clippers. When
hard-up and in want of a job he chanced to stroll
into a Melbourne engineer’s shop (M'Cann, Sloss,
and Co.’s) and was told there was no work in his
line. “But,” said the manager, “we had a sheep-
shearing machine left here some time ago- can
you make it work?” “No,' 1 was the answer ;
“not that one” —and hurrying home to his lodg-
ings he started to make what is now the Wolseley
machine. The first thing shorn was a rabbit, and
the invention, we are glad to say, has give" the
engineer a modest little fortune.
The influenza is raging again this year
with unprecedented deadliness. The paralysing
influences of this terrible malady have assumed
the alarming dimensions of a plague. The dis-
temper is of a powerfully destructive character,
and shatters its victims with fearful suddenness.
The severity of the visitation eclipses all previous
attacks. The medical faculty fails to account for
the outbreak, and is powerless to control its
spread. Doctors, nurses, and hospitals are doing
everything possible for sufferers, but are ovei-
whelmed by the multidude crying bitterly for
-elicf. A dispatch from one town states that 3(X)
people died in one day, this was about the daily
average, and the streets were crowded with
vehicles carrying thb dead to their last resting
place; and the sad vacancy of death depressed
every household. Such trying times as these
demand immediate attention. r lhe doctors fail,
and the many advertised cough and cold cures are
only sedatives which interfere with the proper
secretions of the respiratory tract. Recourse must
be had to a genuine stimulating restorative, which,
whilst curing the grippe, will also strengthen and
support the patient, and no article the world has
so far seen can compare to Clements lonic for
these effects. During the great outbreak of in-
fluenza in Sydney in 1890, over 50,000 bottles of
Clements Tonic were consumed, and its praises
were sung in every quarter when the disease was
completely stamped out by the use of this remedy
in four weeks. Such facts as this prove beyond
the doubt of the most unbelieving sceptic, the
value of Clements Tonic for such diseases. Mrs.
M. Kellett, Parramatta, N.S.W., writes : Sir,
Four years ago I caught a severe cold which
settled in my head and chest, and caused an in-
cessant cough and copious discharge of phlegm;
this brought on great weakness and debility.
After considerable attention and doctors’ treat-
ment, the cough was relieved and finally cured,
but the debility remained and seemed to defy the
skill of the medical men and the power of medi-
cine I had no appetite, and was almost reduced
to a skeleton, having entirely wasted away. I
had taken pints of cod-liver oil, malt extracts,
and other medicines without relief, when 1 was
recommended to take Clements Tonic. I procured
a bottle, and am thankful to say that i im-
mediately began to improve; I could eat better,
and relish and digest what I did eat, I gained
flesh every day, and my strength rapidly returned,
and after six week’s treatment with Clements
Tonic I felt a new woman altogether. I took
Clements Tonic six months ago, and have never
had any sickness since, and am only too glad to
add my name to your list of grateful
Remember you must get the genuine Clements
Tonic, sold by chemists, grocers and storekeepers,
everywhere.


66 °)
Ml®. AP PRIH INili
jf *\\ • H><£ C* » kK® hj> tp ir ©Q] (Q© ts r •
■" ‘ ■ —- —I ■ 1 •
§b ©
f ! Revolve:* l
x p r <a cTi c e
m /xj.bep't’ rf
„J( ,j'o€ kel/ die
r '• / ’ J oil fhe -
i
S rr-> e. (I -fk C rr> you
stay icuatc K igo
£<. -fke (S'pv'6 r<csrr, e nt -(ro
eyuc a. /oo‘ reuvjarci ~
IJ f i-s .said ff>e u ♦~> < s are
useless weiUul~ forpecioes * G
appearance <s[ d'Ke -H-e-ad ■& wsker>
fK*? ar*e comp]e*f^
THE WEEK—IN MELBOURNE.


o
o
THE WORKMAN’S CROSS: DISUNION.


The SYDNEY DEPOSIT BANK.
90 —KING STREET-90
Established 1885.
Agencies in London and throughout Australia
Overdrafts granted against Deposit of Deed’s
and all the usual banking business transacted. '
The following are the Rates of Interest allowed
for Fixed Deposits ;
3 X ears , ••• ••• 9i per cent.
Months ... ... 8J per cent.
o TY ont , 71 P er cent.
3 Months ... .. 5J per cent.
6 per ent. allowed on daily balance of current account.
For the past Four (4) Years a Bonus of One per
Cent, has been paid in addition to the above rates
This is the first and only Bank in the Colonies
which divides its profits with its depositors.
Communications from the country will be
promptly attended to.
T. S. RICHARDSON,
General Manager
BITE,
Ye Fishes, Bite. Fishing Nets
made ready for use. Try our
Improved Fish Traps. We have an immense
assortment of Lines (samples sent). Every kind
of Hook, Bait®, Floats, Flies, Reels, etc. A
splendid assortment of Fishing Rods. A small
parcel of Tackle can be sent by post. We have
every requisite for fishing. EAST WAY BROS.,
411 George-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A BOON TO HUMANITY
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There’s nothing in the market sold
Like Pkmell’s patent Snowwiiitb Flour.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Is the coming colony. Responsible Government
is now in force. Railways and Harbour works
are to be constructed. The goldfields are proving
to be rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £25
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS ... ... from £l5
Noth.—These allotments are in selected positions. They
have been inspected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“ There is money in it.”
Pamphlets and marked plans posted on application to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
;50» PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
W. J. DOUGLAS. Manager.
Society
Admiral Lord Charles Scott has had
bairn administered to his torn vanity. He
was pompously announced at a meeting cf
the United Service Institute the other night
as “His Excellency,” whereupon every warrior
present promptly sprung to his feet and salaamed.
The Admiral didn’t say it was the proudest
moment of his life, but he looked it. By the
way, “ His Excellency ” doesn’t appear to be a
very disagreeable sort of potentate privately, and
does not hold more than ordinarily ridiculous ideas
on things in general.
« # •
The hooting indulged in by the crowd at
the opening of the N.S.W. Parliament bn 19th
inst. was directed, not at Earl Jersey, who has
personally made a rather good impression all
round, but at his Ex.’s flunkeys, gorgeously
arrayed in white ul ters and scarlet plush
breeches. Such things in Australia never serve
for anything save marks of the heartiest derision.
* # *
The officers of “A” Troop, N.S.W.
Cavalry (formerly Sydney “ Lanceahs ”), are much
exercised in mind as to what they should do with
one of their troopers, who is said not only to have
unfavourably commented on the per onal appear-
ance of a high local Imperial official, but also to
have moved, at a recent smoke-concert, an amend-
ment to “ Three cheers for the Queen.”
# * #
“ Si non e verodc. A lady who recently
started an academy of needlework sought the
patronage of Lady Jersey, to whom she unfolded
her scheme, dilating upon its feminine usefulness.
“I have no doubt,” said Lady Jersey, “that you
are competent and that the institution would be
useful : but I must really, you know, see some
credentials as to your character and I'eputation,
because - ” “ Madame !” haughtily interrupted
the needle-expert, “my character is my own.
Good afternoon.'’
The JN.o. vV, Foresters, in presenting an
address to Lord Jersey the other day, remarked
in conclusion “We hope yourself“ and Lady
Jersey may enjoy your term of office as Governor
of this colony, and on leaving it carrv away
pleasant memories of the Order and the' colony
generally.” The Foresters are quite right Lady
Jersey is Joint-Governor of N.S.W.
# *
Mr, Mansell, laio private secretary to
Governor Kintore, and who was found dead, with
his head crushed on a Melbourne railway-line,
complained bitterly that the Melbourne ‘police
were hunting him as though he were a felon.
Under official instructions, detectives searched
a leading hotel for Mansell—illegally and without
a search-warrant. Luckily (or unluckily, in view
of after events) Mansell was not there. It is
doubtful whether the detectives would have
ventured to arrest him, as his only alleged offence
was that he had left Government House, Adelaide,
without leave. On the day of his death, a friend
asked him why he left the Kintores, and his
answer was : “Oh, I’m too much of a Democrat
for them. I could not stand it any longer, so
cleared out. The society of the upper-circles is not
congenial to me, but I do object to the Victorian
police, or any other people, ransacking hotels or
houses of ill-fame for me when my whereabouts
have got nothing to do with them or anyone else.”
* * *
A N.S.W. man who had lived unhappily
with his family, deserted them and went to Mel-
bourne—to look for work, he said. He was there
arrested, brought back to N.S.W. and charged,
under the new law, with desertion, found guilty
and sentenced to twelve months’ gaol. Under
the old law, a wife who had had her husband
arrested could accept his promise of amendment
and have him released without sureties; but
under the new Act he has, whatever his wife’s
wishes, to stay in gaol for the term of sentence
and let his people starve. Apropos, the old law
had some queer points about it: for instance,
when a man had travelled a long distance from
home and did not care about paying his own fare
back, his wife, at his own instigation, frequently
swore an information against him, got him
arrested and brought back to her at the expense of
the State. Then she made it up with him, and
they left the court arm-in-arm chuckling over how
they had “ bested ” the Colonial Treasurer.
■* * *
The captain of an ocean-going steamer
that trades to Australia has just developed some
new ideas of a skipper’s functions. At an Austra-
lian port, a young woman attempted to secure a
first-saloon passage to another Australian port.
The captain arrogated to himself new and dual
offices—that of medical man and that of father
confessor, the result of his unusual catechism
being that he point-blank refused to accept the
girl as a saloon passenger, notwithstanding that
the full fare was tendered on her behalf. In this
he was backed up by the steamship company’s
local agent. The girl was suffering from malarial
fever, a harmless, non-contagious complaint, and
the captain’s harassment made her very ill indeed
It was only after the application of much in-
fluential pressure that the captain was induced to
take along the suffering young woman. The
consideration of this incident opens up a very
interesting field of speculation, as to a captain’s
or an agent’s powers to refuse business for em-
ployers on any ground not connected with the
good order of the ship. In this case, the girl was
thoroughly well-behaved, and her transport to a
more civilised port was a matter of medical
necessity.
* * *
In the medical libel-case up at Mackay,
Q., the Police Magistrate’s wife relied for her
defence upon the circumstance that the facts of
the scandal were known to several other persons,
and that she was only discussing a current topic
of news when she spoke about the doctor’s alleged
escapade. The jury “caught on” to this idea; they
found thatsix otherpersonsknew as much about the
alleged slander as Police Magistrate, and
so they found a verdict for the defendants (she
and her husband, theP.M.). So we have the Jaw
deliciously defined. If you want to disseminate
a spicy tit-bit of scandal, proclaim it from the
housetop, and, should you be called to book, you
can point to the many who know it, and you are
safe. If you tell your bosom friend as a great
secret and she tells another as another great secret
you run much risk. But this theory didn’t work
in the Reseigh Martin-Eddy case.
* * *
The joke is against a certain Queensland
M.L.C. who has just returned from a N.Z. tour.
At one seaport-town in the islands, he took a
spasm for fishing, and it was his habit to engage
the same boatman always, “ because, doncher-
know, the feller was so deuced handy, doncher-
know, that a feller didn’t have to take off his
gloves or let down his umbreller, doncherknow.
A POLITICAL PLEASANTRY.
PARKES : “Well, George, they say you have one good eye and one artificial one; now which
eye have you got on the Premiership?”
REID : “The bad one. The good one I shall keep on the Premier.”
all the time. This feller, don’teherknow, would
bait the hooks and take off the fish, and some-
times haul in the line for a feller, doncherknow.
Ya-as, we had great sport, I assure yah.”
* * *
Bishop Stanton, it will be remembered,
helped a skipper to discharge coal during the
recent strike. The skipper, so it is averred, cor-
dially thanked his lordship, and after informing
him that the job had been done in a very work-
manlike manner, remarked: “You areanoble man;
you ought to be an (adjective) archbishop, you ought
to be a (adjective) Pope !” Which reminds us of a
certain burial at sea. The captain of the ship was
a great drunkard, and as he was specially incap-
able on this occasion the task of conducting the
burial ceremony fell upon the mate. “I am the
resurrection and the life,” began the mate. Just
then the captain staggered on deck. “No, I’m
blamed if you are— l’m the resurrection and the
I'fe aboard this ship !”
# # *
The Victorian Government is now badger-
ing Speight to reduce the train service, especially
on Melbourne suburban lines. The inevitable
effect of this alleged “policy of retrenchment”
was made apparent during the late strike. When
trains-wero knocked off the number of monthly
ticket-holders diminished, and people were un-
willingly compelled to patronise the trams. See-
in" that suburban lines are the only ones which
pay expenses, there is no imaginable reason for
“ reforms ” in this direction, save a desire to swell
the already bloated Tramway Company’s divi-
dends.
* * #
A man stepped up to the barristers’ table
before the Victorian Full Court the other day,
asking what was the best way to become a
barrister. Their Honors’ answer, advising long
and arduous study, betrayed a ready grasp of the
position ; nevertheless it was not a patch on that
vouchsafed by the N.Z. lawyer who, when asked
a similar question in one of the local courts-ten
years ago ; held out his right hand and demanded
6s. Bd.
» # *
The great grievance with the Port Darwin
people during Governor Kintore’s stay there was
that they had to restrain their free fluency of
Anglo-Saxon. It was splitting fun to hear the
head man of a mine down which Kintore ventured
explaining the points, something like this —“You
see, y’rexoellency, when we fust saw this bl
(cough, cough) er, this stuff, we didn’t think it
was any bl (cough, cough) er, any good.” Or,
“ By er, I mean, your Excellency should just
go down the (it would come out this time)
sanguinary No. 2 shaft, witli a condemned lode
17 gory feet wide and ” —but Kintore was 10 yards
off talking to Government Resident Knight.
#
# *
A Melbourne artist’s wife writes to The
Bulletin. Here is the lady’s letter, with all its
logic and illogicalness :
A man in Melbourne was recently fined £lO and treated
to a disquisition upon his outrageous cruelty in working
a diseased old horse. I don’t suppose that he particu-
larly enjoyed employing a spavined, knock-kneed, broken-
winded old brute, with sores on its shoulders, but perhaps
his theory of prevention of cruelty to animals consisted in
getting something in the way of food and clothing for his
wife and children, which he could not get without the
assistance of something on four legs to draw his produce.
One of this class of criminals (aided by a ruin, once an
equine) has been in the habit of supplying us with vege-
tables. The other day he failed to appear, and subse-
quently reported that the police had ordered him to
dispense with the services of the ruin. Of course, the
man was a fool. He ought to have considered the animal
as dead and himself penniless, but the horse not being
dead; was in the way, and the man wanting to feed his
children, designed that the horse should do it for him.
Accordingly, he took the u»,happy companion of his
misery to the Zoological Gardens and offered it for sale,
but the keeper of the carnivora kitchen would “ha’ none
of it,” said that it would make the lion ill and the hyaena’s
stomach go round ; and while its owner spent his time
trying to dispose of the white elephant “ the Mongol who
tends the cabbage and the leek ” was annexing his cus-
tomers. I mention these incidents to show how
unique is the law and how wall-eyed the public.
At the Alexandra Theatre every night the bold
Carver (of Wild West fame) arrayed in a shirt of gorgeous
colour, rides over a bridge which, being cut, precipitates
—oh, dear me—his horse, into a river (otherwise a
tank) some eight or ten feet below. The bold Carver does
not fall—he clings high and dry on the bridge, but the
unhappy horse nightly advances tremblingly, has the
support cut from under its feet, and is plunged into cold
water. This nightly expectation and experience must
certainly come within the bounds of “ cruelty.” When
the delighted audience shrieks with applause, the unhappy
brute is fished out, and trembling in every limb, wet and
terrified, is displayed in response to a call. Now, what I
want to know is—Where are the disciples of prevention of
cruelty to animals ?
* # \ #
Tom Robinson, one of the most respected
pioneers of the Mount Zeehan silver fields, died
of typhoid the other day. More are sure to follow
unless the Government hurries up with the drain-
age work. Zeehan is fearfully wet, and horrible
stenches arise from foetid matter lying all over the
place.
# * #
Dear Bulletin, —You are mistaken about
the Fantodsia Amphibia Jimjama having been on
Thursday (Q.) since the advent of the first white
man. The first white man was an enforced
teetotaller (a well-known bush order). When the
second white man arrived he brought two tins of
kerosene, six pounds of ration-sugar, six pounds
of sheep-wash tobacco, a pound of bluestone, a
bottle of turps, a keg, and two free-tight tumblers.
Then he set up a shanty, with the first man as a
customer, and shortly afterwards the Fantodsia
was seen.—Delcomyn.
* # #
In a Melbourne suburban train, last week,
a lady was travelling whose whole family are
daughters. A little Red Riding Hood, one of
the flock, was with her, and was very much in-
terested in a little boy. She looked up innocently
and said, “ Ma, why don’t you have a boy ?”
* * #
The book on which Cingalese and Hindoo
witnesses have been sworn at Rockhampton Police
Court for a few years past, and which was sup-
posed to be a copy of the sacred volume, the
“Vedas,” is (according to an educated Cingalese
who was recently a witness in that Court) nothing
of the kind, but a small text-book of “information
for boys.” This reminds us of another Queens-
land Police Court where, for years, a dirty and
half-obliterated “Ready Reckoner ” did duty for a
Bible, until some over-scrupulous witness examined
it and “ gave the fraud away.”
* # #
From the “regulations,” it would appear
that gaol-warders must assist at executions. The
warders at Ballarat refused to assist the hangman
in Johnston’s case, and are being hauled over the
coals in consequence. Very different was the
conduct of a certain warder in Darlinghurst at
the execution of Mrs. Collins. On that occasion,
when a, mechanical delay occurred, the officer in
cpiestion quickly took a hammer and put the lever
in motion, thus ending the wretched woman’s life.
* * *
One of the strangest spectacles ever wit-
nessed in a Melbourne court was that of Purves,
Q.C., weeping violently and mopping up his
countenance with an immense handkerchief, while
Judge Hodges also broke down and slopped over
miserably on the Bench. Purves sassed Hodges
to begin with, and Hodges virtually told Purves
that he should shut up, and Purves seemed to
imply that Hodges had no manners, and then they
both hinted that each of them was another. So
far Purves kept up his end of the row with his
accustomed vigour, but when the Judge sent for
the sheriff, he suddenly collapsed and wept all
over the premi-es, and Hodges also broke down
to some extent, and there was a pathetic boo-hoo
that made the whole establishment feel damp.
Then Purves apologised in broken accents, but in
the middle of his apology he suddenly threw his
brief up in the air and fled from the scene. When
he turned up next morning and resumed his
apology he was still in tears, but whether he had
been weeping all night, or whether he had been
calm and composed during the night and had
broken out afresh after breakfast, couldn’t be
ascertained.
* * #
A Melbourne bookmaker, charged with
bigamy, pleads that he was so drunk on the first
occasion as not to know what he was doing. In
the ordinary way, though, a husband realises his
situation during the honeymoon.
* * *
A surgeon in a London hospital asking a
female patient, admitted for treatment, if she had
been bitten by a dog, received the reply ; “No,
sir, by another lydy.”
* * *
Useful all-round reporters are working all
day and three parts of the night for £2 per week
in Brisbane. Night-porters at hotels there get
nothing a week “and their tucker” as a great
favour.
* * *
Age advertisement, reprinted as a puzzle ;
WANTED to Exchange, H.T. 30 to 50, strong, 40
’’ miles from Melb., easy distance from railway,
lovely district; wifeW.M., P. 0., £35, large residence
Suburb, care of - —bookseller, Bourke-st.,
Melb.
# # #
The explanation given as to the exclusion
of doctors with Irish qualifications from Sydney
Alfred Hospital, is that that institution, like the
medical school of Sydney University, is controlled
by people from Aberdeen awa’, and thereaboots,
who dinna sae much dislike the Irish hs they love
the Scoatch.
* * *
Facial massage is booming just now at
“Home.” It is reported to remove that hide-
bound appearance which makes the tired society
female look like a slab out of a wrinkled yellow
elephant, and it also shifts spots, furrows, crows’-
feet, and that fallen-in aspect of the lower jaw
that accompanies premature old age, when the
old age is brought on by exposing the upper-half
of a British peeress to draughts and other atmo-
spheric influences. Likewise, when the social
female begins to turn yellow, and looks as if she
had spent ten weeks in a tub of water, and fed on
old, decayed greenstuff, facial massage is said to
restore the complexion to its original purity;
and it removes undue redness of the nose, and
helps to quell any tendency on the part of the
ears to look large and conspicuous and to stand
right out on each side of the head.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — A yarn of the Botany
“push.” Two regular unmistakeables are about


—THE-
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LOAN & GUARANTEE CO., LD
HEAD OFFICE
CORNER OF YORK AND MARKET STREETS.
BRANCHES
LONDON—IIO Gannon Street, E.C.
MELBOURNE-283 Collins Street E.
BRISBANE—Edward and Elizabeth Streets.
NEWCASTLE - 37 Hunter Street.
LONDON BOARD OF ADVICE:
Lord Ulick 11. Brown.
Hon. Vesey Fitzgerald.
Howard, John, Esq.
The Company grant Immediate Advances upon all Classed
. of Mercantile or other Approved Securities.
Interest Allowed on Fixed Deposits :
3 Months ... 6 per cent.
ti Months 7 per cent.
12 Months 8 per cent.
3 Years 9 per cent.
The dividend of 10 per cent, (the last), declared 0..
JBth January, 1891, is now payable at the Head Office
Pitt and Market streets.
A. MILLER ... .... General Manager.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“ Drink, pretty creature, drink.” What? The
London & Sydney Tea Co.’s pure teas.
Pettigrew’s Wheat Meal is proclaimed
to be the best, as it is made from the primest
grain to be obtained in the Colonies. Made up in
31b. and 71b. bags, and obtainable from all respect-
able Grocers and Storekeepers. Wholesale from
Wni. Pettigrew and Son, William-street, Bris-
bane.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Give the London & Sydney Tea Co. one trial-
they guarantee satisfaction.
FEDERATION OR NO FEDERATION.
The latest scheme for Federation
Claims to be for the country’s weal,
While all may prove but botheration,
Which can't be said of Pemell’s Meal.
His Golden Meal is what I mean,
’Tis good and pure and cheap I ween.
The “Cup ” Blend Tea nothing like it any where’
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Tl\e London & Sydney
Tea Company,
167 Olarence-st., Sydney
Delivers carriage free
to any Railway Station
■tv port in N.S.'Wales'.
o
Packed in
20-lb. and 40-lb. Cheats.
Price:
1/6, 1/9, 2/-, & 2/6 peril).
"Write to ua for
Samples, Post Free
to enter a tram. One ia making for the smoking
compartment of an ordinary car, when the other
says : “ ’Ere, Bill, don’t be a mug, ; come to the
two-storied car and we’ll go upstairs.” “No,
Jack; you’ll get all the bloomin’ smoke from the
iniin in ver eyes.” “ Yes, but you’ll miss all the
fun if you stop here.” “What fun?” “Why,
a-spittin’ on the top of all the toffs as passes us by
in their bloomin’ swell kerridges. You take one
side and I’ll take the other.” “An right; I’m
on.” And away they sprang aloft. I followed
them. Thev faithfully expectorated on every
unfortunate "'“toff”-in carriage or afoot—and,
what’s more, they made bets on the different
events. Bill beat Jack, as far as I could make
out, by “five full-spouts and one slider”- what-
ever that may mean. Yours, &c., The D.
# * *
At a recent N.S.W. political meeting a
gentleman who advocates the disposal of the dead
by cremation asked the “Do
favour the establishment of a crematorium ?” The
candidate looked bewildered, but presently re-
plied, his face glowing with sudden enlighten-
ment : “Of course I do. In a country like this
so admirably fitted for the purpose, one cannot
but favour the establishment of butter-factories.”
* * *
Melbourne Evening ’Erald’s “Humour
of the Day ” is now generally recognised as the
leading horror of the night.
# * *
Melbourne Standard gives a circumstan-
tial account of how an alleged lunatic called at
Government House and was interviewed by Lord
Rosehill. The toothy nobleman in question
happened to be in England at the time.
* * *
Gr. R. Sims playfully insinuates that it was
the Judge’s wife, and not the .Judge, who drew
up the decision of the Court in the Jackson
abduction-case.
* * *
Cast an eye of suspicion upon the man
whose beard hangs limp and straight from a
tallow-coloured face. He usually robs the widow
and the orphan, and always takes round the plate
in church.
* * #
The statists of the different Australian
provinces ought to endeavour to discover how
many young men staying at hotels and boarding-
houses amuse themselves by being “funny” on
the census-paper. One would like to know the
exact number of idiots who called themselves
’Enry Parkes, Ned Kelly, or William Shake-
speare. „ „
* * *
“ The man desires the_ woman, but the
woman’s desire is for the admiration of the man.
# * *
A South Melbourne Salvation Army cap-
tainess, ere leaving for Brisbane, was kissed by
■five hundred women at a farewell levee. She
lives!
* * *
It is stated that a “noble” English lord
recently gave a boxing-show in his drawing-room
at which many ladies were present. Six pugilists,
several not unknown to “fame,” were divided into
three pairs. Each wore rubber-sole boots to pre-
vent slipping on the polished floor. The boxing
was of a business-like character, and blood was
drawn in every bout. The noble ladies, however,
showed not the least squeamishness, and applauded
enthusiastically, clapping their gloved bands, and
rapping chairs with their fans. 1 hree separate
fights were brought off, and the whole affair was
voted a great success, worthy of repetition.
The weii-adverfcisea Mr. Jackson is in a
peculiar position. He cannot, according to the
English law, compel his wife to live with him,
nor can he obtain a divorce on account of her
desertion. There is only one way to get rid of a
tie that is not a union. Jackson must go to reside
in some Scottish city ; there ho must take a house
and a place of business. He must put his name
up, register it, and have his address inserted in
the directory. After being domiciled for nine
months he must write his wife inviting her to his
loving arms and offering to send money to pay
travelling expenses. Should she refuse, after nine
months he may petition for divorce on grounds of
desertion, that is, if her absence has lasted four
years. Desertion, on either side, aiming, as it
does, a fatal blow at the sole purpose, the vital
principle of marriage, is the most legitimate, and
should be the most legal, ground for divorce.
# * *
The case of station-master Lenehan, sen
fenced to three years at Bathurst for embezzling
money, recalls a similar case in which a now
prominent member of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly was an active participant. The station-
master in this case was in charge of a Sydney
suburban station, and to oblige a customer (the
now M.L.A.) took his cheque for freight anf
agreed to hold it over. Unfortunately, an inspector
came along and discovered the cheque in the safe.
There were no funds when the cheque was pre-
sented and the unfortunate S.M. was dismissed
the service.
* * *
Wherever you see “Guinea,” sniff swindle_
# * *
Speaker Davies, who has not been a lavish
“ entertainer ” since the land-boom times, has in-
vited Hopetoun and both lots of Vie. legislators
to feed in the Queen’s Hall on June 22nd. The
Bulletin is open to bet that his lordship drags in
a reference to “this noble Hall, so appropriately
named after Her Gracious Majesty.” Loyalty
grows rank and greasy in that costly, unnecessary
Hall, like toadstools in a mist-enshrouded
paddock.
* * *
When Governor Onslow visited Te Kooti’s
country lately he had a Pakeha interpreter with
him who could transmute the crude Maori Hau-
Hau lingo into pure Haw-Haw English, dontcher-
know, with perfect fluency, efficiency and des-
patch. At one of the pahs visited by the party,
however, he paused abruptly in the first verse
of a Maori song he was interpreting from the
tattooed lips of a high caste native lady, and was
obliged to confess his inability to conclude the
contract. The song was so ravishingly tender (and
so exquisitely indelicate) that it made him blush
to the tips of his ears, and when the Governor,
“VARIETY IS THE SPICE OF LIFE.”
MARRIED MAN (to doctor): “The wife? Oh, she’s pretty well; but, look here, couldn’t you
advise her to go away for a change for a fortnight ? There’s an old flame of mine
in town.”
vho was becoming interested, invited him to pro-
ceed, he replied sadly ; “Your Excellency, there
has been only one man in Maoriland since Captain
Cook’s time who could have translated that song
properly, and he was a missionary, and was killed
rnd eaten by his converts long before my time;
consequently, I must inform your Excellency that
he is dead and his skill as a translator has died
with him.”
# # #
An eyeglassed “ rabbiter,” attired in loud
English checks, waited on the editor of the
Watrarapa (N.Z.) Daily, and, after a fluent
exordium, said Having spent what money I
had in the purchase of the necessities of life, I find
myself in a condition of absolute impecuniosity,
and having for years been a patron of the fragrant
weed, I am at a loss to know how to procure a
supply. Could you lend me half-a-crown ? ” Ho
perorated with a promise in Shakesperean language
to repay the loan in rabbit-skins. The editor
effusively replied ;—“I haven’t got half-a-crown,
or you should have it with pleasure, old man.
But there’s a friend of mine will give you one
at my request, I’m sure. I’ll give you a note to
him, and, so that he need not know you’re on the
borrow, I’ll say that I owe you half-a-crown.”
:“ Thanks, awfully.” Then that editor indited a
note to the secretary of the local Benevolent
Society:—“l beg to bring under your considera-
tion a deserving case for genuine charity—a
rabbiter out of luck and bacca. He tried to tap
•me for half-a-crown, but I have no desire to cir-
cumscribe the limits of usefulness of your society
and therefore send him on to you.”—Yours, &c.
The editor saw the rabbiter start on his new
quest, and immediately left the town on a week s
holiday.
m * *
The interesting cross-examination in bank-
ruptcy of Rev. Andrew Gardiner, of Sydney
Divorce Court celebrity, tells the same 8 i'T'
The man of the next world who wanted to be a
big man in this world, and who was not satisfied
with, say, £6OO a year for preaching the Gospel
and marrying people, the interest on £lO,OOO I
by his father-in-law, and his own handsome wife
—who, now that the matter is put as one of £.s.d.,
will for the first time secure full public sympathy.
The shadiest aspect of the ex-pastor s career is
shown in his admission that he banked trust-funds
to reduce his own personal overdraft.
* * *
Freemasons are bound by one of their
solemn oaths not to violate the wife or daughters
of a brother mason. This rule is relaxed, as a num
ber of gruesome rites and ceremonies are relaxed,
in very blue-blooded cases, and we don t hear o
Past Grand-Master Lord Tommody being mur-
dered by the brethren, after he has bolted with a
noble Deputy Grand-Something’s missus, btm
the aristocracy are not altogether unmindful of the
fact that they came to some demned understand-
ing when they were sworn in, doncherknow, with
that old chappie up amongst the skulls and things,
baijove! Consequently they endeavour as far as
possible to confine their amorous depredations to
the other fellah’s cousins and aunts, dash it all .
(4th chap., 2nd vol., “Bulletin’s” Secrets of
Masonry “Blown.”)
# * *
A New Zealand M.L.C. of cleanly personal
habits was recently compelled to “room” with a
brother M.L.C. of another sort. On retiring for
the night Brother Muck explained: “You see, I
never take off my collar and necktie when I’m
away from home, as I never could manage to put
’em on again without the old woman’s help.” A
few days later, Muck was in the legislative halls
delivering an impassioned declamation against
the revolutionary tendencies of the “great un-
washed.”
# # *
Police-Magistrate Pinnock, of Brisbane
(to woman who has come up regularly so soon as
she gets out of chokee) : “ Why don’t you go and
live in South Brisbane, or somewhere out of this ?”
In other words —“Why don’t you give my col-
league, Day, or some other beak, a turn ?” Good
old Pinnock ! It’s a similar remedy to that pro-
posed by “ General ” Booth —“ Let us shunt our
sinners into another parish.”
# * *
The Turkish Consul’s skull-cap incident at
Goulburn has revived the anecdote of the Parra-
matta Bench which insisted upon a Jew or
Quaker taking off his hat while being sworn,
though he explained his conscientious objections
to the bare-headed business. A few days after-
wards, in a superior Court, a Judge had the oath
administered to the same individual with his hat
on, and soundly berated the Bench for having
outraged any man’s conscientious scruples.
The British Sunday school Union states in
a recent pamphlet that six out of every seven con-
victs in British prisons have been Sunday-school
scholars. And now we want to know if there is
any basis at all for that good small boy in the book
—that pious though delicate orphan whose front
name is always Henry, and who gains the esteem
of his teacher, whose name is generally Mr.
Thompson, and sends his stickjaw money to the
heathen, and gives a penny to an impoverished old
female at the front door? Is he all lies from the
start, or has he only died out, or what ?
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —I ask people to note the
inhuman way in which stray dogs are done to
death in Goulburn. Yesterday while passing the
court-house I saw three burly policemen hanging
a dog to a tree with a view of strangling it. Had
any private person been seen —by a policeman —
doing the same thing I am sure they would stand
a good show of being heavily fined or imprisoned.
—Humanity. Goulburn, 14th May, 1891. [The
very same thing obtains in Sydney. Therefore it
must be right.— Ed. B.]
# # #
On visiting St. Vincent’s Hospital last
week Lord and Lady Jersey handed Cardinal
Moran £3O towards the funds of the institute.
# # *
A Melbourne lolly-maker being sum-
moned last week for filthy premises, his barrister
said it was “ the act of God, stopping-up a sluice-
pipe.”
Consumption and the
“Microbe Killer.”
, Radam’s Microbe Killer Co. Gentlemen,—l
think it only right to let you know I am getting
on with your great remedy, the Microbe Killer,
and the great benefit that I have received from its
use. Having suffered for some time past from
bad hemorrhage, night sweats, and pneumonia,
the doctors said my lungs were in a very bad
state. I got very much alarmed as I lost a large
quantity of blood, and, like a drowning man
catching at a straw, 1 tried many remedies, but
with little success. A friend of mine knowing
how ill I had been, advised me to try the Microbe
Killer. I did so, and I am thankful to God, that
I did. After taking the Microbe Killer for about
a fortnight it made me feel very sick, but after-
wards I began to Improve. I have now taken
four jars of the Microbe Killer two of No. 1, and
two of No. 2—with the result that my appetite has
improved, the night sweats have stopped and I
ha r e had no more hemorrhage, and my health
has greatly improved, and I hope by God’s bles-
sing through the use of your great remedy, that I
shall soon be restored to my usual health and
strength again. I hope that I shall still have
better news to tell you later on. Gentlemen, I
write these few lines for the benefit of the suffer-
ing, believing that if they will give it a fair trial
it will restore them to health. Yours respectfully,
W. Cowdrill, 70 Nelson-street, North Annandale.
May 7 1891. Pamphlets sent free on application.
Head office: 40 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
Agencies : 319 George-street, Sydney; 17 Hunter-
street, Newcastle; 26 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Local agents wanted.
Women Not Admitted.
The Mosque of St. Sophia is one of the most in-
teresting buildings in Constantinople, to visitors.
It is in the form of a Greek cross, and has a
central dome 100 ft. above the floor; it was doubt-
less once much higher, as the gilded cupola could
be seen 100 miles at sea, and was a landmark for
ships coming up the harbour. The inside is very
beautiful, with its 60 columns of marble and
granite and porphyry, some brought from
Heliopolis, some from the temple of Diana at
Ephesus. It was built 531-538 a.d., and is one of
the finest specimens of Byzantine architecture.
But all the grandeur and all the beauty of this
magnificent Mosque is for male eyes alone. The
peculiar religion of the Koran, as proclaimed by
the priests, has set a rule of inhibition against the
Mohammedan women visiting the Mosque; if
permitted to enter on any special occasion, they
must sit in the galleries, with their faces closely
veiled. This is the intolerance of a superstitious
religion, but it will not do for the decendants of
those who hung old women as witches at Salem to
denounce the Mohammedan discrimination too
loudly. We are growing more tolerant as we grow
more intelligent, but there are still physicians who
will not prescribe, but proscribe, Warner’s safe
cure, solely because it is a proprietary remedy,
though they know it is the only known specific for
kidney troubles. The more intelligent, follow the
true inspirations of the healing art, and knowingits
virtues, do not hesitate to use it in their own
practice, however, and readily recommend it to
those afflicted. The Warner’s safe
cure have published many physicians’ testimonials
during the past five or six years, and Dr. J. M.
Card, of St. Mary’s, Pa., Avrites June 24, 1890
“ I have used Warner’s safe cure now for the last
three months for my own benefit, and am pleased
to certify that it has done me more good than any
medicine I have tried for kidney trouble, and I am
recommending it to all my‘patients. ”


The Commercial Agency
Trading & Banking Co.,
Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1874.
CAPlTAL —Authorised, £500,000.
Head. Office:
379 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Sydney Arcade).
NEWCASTLE BRANCH—HUNTER STREET.
Chairman of Directors:
J. E. TONKIN, Esq., M.L.A.
Make advances on Apprn*’“d Mercantile, Agricultural,
and Pastoral Securities, Negotiate Mortgages, and transact
all usual
BANKING BUSINESS.
Special Facilities Accorded to Mercantile Clients.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED
at the following rates of interest:
12 months 8 per cent.
6 months 7 per cent.
3 months and Current Accounts . 5 per cent.
Payable Quarterly, Half-Yearly, or Annually.
Depositors of 12 Months Renewed Share in Bonus out
of Profits of the Company.
JOHN H. NATHAN, General Manager.
Government
Notices..
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 28,1801.
rfIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 10.
Bridge, Moore Creek, on road Tamworth to
Barraba.
Bridge, Bogan River, road Narromine, via the
Oaks, to the Bogan.
Additions, Hillston Gaol. Fresh tenders
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, East
Maitland
Construction of North Shore Main Outfall Sewer,
Cont. No. 70, Sydney Sewerage
Improvement of Approaches, Punch Bowl Bridge,
at Enfield
Culvert on Main Weste n Road, at Homebush
Construction of Tramway, Newcastle to Tighe’s
Hill
Construction of Tramway, Newcastle to Mere-
wether
Bridge, Munmurra River, road Cassilis to Mudgee
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Euabalong (fresh
tenders)
Repairs, Benevolent Asylum, Liverpool
Construction of Jetties, Erskiue street, Sydn°y
Punt for Bega River, road Tathra to Wapengue
(fresh tenders)
Erection of Quick-firing Ammunition Magazine,
Spectacle Island
Sheds, Drainage, &e., Office of Inspector-General
of Police
Additions, Sydney Observatory
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 24.
Supply of 175,000 tons of Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales (offers may be
sent to the Agent-General, London, up to this
date)
Bridge, Lachlan River, road Forbes to Marsden
and Condobolin.
Bridge, Macleay River, at Sherwood
Bridge, Dulguigan Creek, road Tulbulgum to
Dungay Creek
Bridge, Dungay Creek, road Tulbulgum to Dun-
gay Creek
Bridges Nos. 1 and 2, in approach to Warrego
River
Bridge at Ford’s Bridge, road Bourke to Hunger-
ford
Bridge Swamp Oak Creek, road Tenterfield to
Lawrence
Erection of Police Quarters, Port Macquarie
Construction of Hand-geared Punt for Burns Point
Ferry, Richmond River
Supply, &c., Pump ng Engines and Boilers, Cont.
No. 2 Cootamundra Water Supply
Construction of Engine-house, Pump Well, Cont.
No. 3 Cootamundra Water Supply
Construction of Service Reservoir Cont. No. 4
Cootamundra Water Supply
Alterations, &e., Court-house and Gaol, at
Bingera
Bridge, Urana Creek, at Urana
Bridge, Waugh’s Creek, road Kiama to Jamberoo
WEDNESDAY, JULY 8.
Construction of further length (23|m.) towards
Mullumbimby, Lismore-Tweed Railway
Bridge, Lane Cove River. Contract No. 1 -
Supply of Materials. Contract No. 2—Erec-
tion. (Alternative tenders for Contracts Nos.
Land 2 combined may be submitted.)
Bridge, Wilson’s Creek, Road Lismore to Bruns-
wick
WEDNESDAY, JULY 15.
Construction of Railway from Molong to Parkes
and Forbes, in two sections.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 22.
Supply of Materials and Erection of Bridge over
the Murray River at Tentaldra
Supply of Materials and Erection of Bridge over
the Murray River at Jingelie
(For full particulars re the above bridges see Go-
vernment Gazette No. 318, page 3899, dated
22nd May.)
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 19.
Supply of Pipes, special castings, &c., Cootamundra
Water Supply
Construction of Railway, Marrickville to Burwood
Roads. (Plans, &c., to be seen after 10th
J une.)
BRUCE SMITH.
Pianos Mastered in a Week !
» tyhy spend years in learning the Piano by Music V wher
ALBERT'S VAMPIMG CARD teaches you to play accom
panihientato thousands of songs and waltzes in all majoi
and minor keys without the slightest knowledge of music
whatever. Price Is (3d (discount to trade). Book contain
ing Annie Rooney, Ask a P’liceman, and 32 more latest
•ongs (words only), price, 7 stamps. Same with music
(melody, suitable for vamping), Is Id, post free. Kazoo
the only musical instrument that anyone can play at s
moment’s notice. This instrument is comical and amus
ing to extreme, annoys your neighbours, cures snorers
and a positive remedy for seasickness, price, 19 stamps’
post free. Shegt music at a great reduction. J. ALBERT
® SON, 108 King Street, Sydney, cheapest Music Store foi
Songs, Music, Violins, Bofrs, Strings. Concertinas, Anglos
Guitars, Tambourines, and Repair*, Catalogues Free?
Furniture, etc.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
COMPLETE HOUSE FURNISHERS,
UPHOLSTERERS, IMPORTERS, AND
MANUFACTURERS,
608 George Street* Sydney*
New Goods for Complete Furnishing for
Villas, Cottages, Hotels, Mansions, &c.»
Arriving every week,
And turning out of the Factory every day.
FURNITURE DEPARTMENT:—
John Lawler and Sons hold a large and
varied Stock of CABINET FURNITURE
suitable for all classes, and being thoroughly
reliable can be highly recommended.
DRAWING ROOM SUITES in handsome
Tapestry and rich plush borders, 9 pieces,
from £8 10s. to £3O.
AUSTRIAN SUITES, covered in Tapestry or
Plush, from £5 to £lO.
DINING-ROOM SUITES in Leather, Cloth or
Hair Seating, from £lO to £lB 10s. In REAL
LEATHER, £lO to £45.
RICH AND MASSIVE SIDEBOARDS, with
Plate Glass Backs, in Cedar, Walnut and
Oak, prices ranging from 00s. and 70s. up to
£3O.
HANDSOME early ENGLISH CABINETS
with Bevelled Plate Glass, in splendid style,
from £5.
BEDROOM FURNITURE, in full suites, in
Ash, Walnut, Pine and other woods at all
prices.
7 Drawer Cedar Chests of Drawers, from 455.,
525., GOs., up to 120 s.
7 Drawer Pine Chests of Drawers, from 40s.
up to 100 s.
Cheffonier Safes, from 455. to 70s.
All other furniture in
Immense Variety and for Every Place
AT EQUALLY LOW RATES.
Bedstead and Bedding Department :—
In this Department we stand
SUPERIOR AND ALONE
We are original manufacturers here, and whether
to the trade or the general public we offer excep-
tional value. Just note ;
Our own make, V7oven Wire Mattresses
OF STEEL WIRE.
Size : 2ft. 3ft. 3ft. Gin., 4ft. Gin.
Price v
10/- 10/- 12/- 12/G Single Wire
13/0 14/0 10/- 20/- Double Wire
*.17/6 20/- 22/0 25/- Treble Wire
BLACK & BRASS Half-Tester BEDSTEADS.
An immense assortment to select from;
Prices, 205., 225. od., 255., 30?., up to 100 s.
SPLENDID BRASS & PEARL BEDSTEADS
full size, £6 10s., £7, £B.
ARTISTIC BEDHANGINGS, in extra fine
cretonne, white sateen drops and rich fringe,
festooned design, from 305., 355., 405., 505.,
605., 70s. upwards.
CHAIR BEDSTEADS, with cushions, 255.,
325. 6d., 50s.
COTS, 205., 225. 6d., 30s.
BEDDING re-made at moderate prices.
Carpet and Floorcloth Department :—-
This Department is well supplied in all re-
quisites of the trade. The cutting and fitting
of Carpets, Linoleums and Floorcloths re-
ceives special attention so that our customers
have no loss. This is not so in every place.
TAPESTRY CARPETS range in price from
Is. 2d., Is. 4d., Is. Gd., Is. 9d., 2s. up to 30s.
BRUSSELS’ CARPETS range in price from 35.,
3s. 3d., 3s. Gd., 3s. 9d. up to 4s. 3d.
VELVET PILE CARPETS, from ss. upwards.
LINOLEUMS, from the best factories in England
and Scotland. Full pitch brands and real
cork fabric. Prices from 2s. to 4s. per square
yard.
FLOORCLOTHS, thoroughly seasoned, from Gd.
up to 3s. 9d. per yard.
CURTAINS, Tapestry, Silk and Art, from 10s.
to 60s. per pair.
LACE CURTAINS, from 4s. Gd, up to 50s. per
pair.
TABLECOVERS Tapestries, Hair Seating,
Cretonnes, Trimmings, Fringes, etc., and all
Upholstery Goods.
*
Furnishing Ironmongery and China Department; —
BREAKFAST SETS, from 195., 225. Gd., 325. Gd.
DINNER SETS, from 18s. Gd. to 70s.
TEA SETS, from 10s, to 255.
BEDROOM WARE, from 7s. Gd. to 255.
KITCHEN FURNITURE in every variety.
BOILERS, COPPERS, MANGLES, STOVES,
KNIFE CLEANING MACHINES, etc.
John Lawler & Sons
Beg respectfully to invite Intending Purchasers to
visit their Establishment, compare prices and
decide for themselves. Estimates given •
608 G-EOEGE BTEEET,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. too, Rignold.
Doors open at 7. Commence 8. Carriages at 10.45.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
nVCE,. Gr. EIGITOLD
and
HER MAJESTY’S DRAMATIC COMPANY,
in the Realistic Drama,
-+ -p-
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 30-“ COUNTY FAIR.”
Box Office at Theatre from 10 to 5. Prices as usual.
J. P. Macdonald, Acting-Manager.
QRITERION THEATRE*
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault.
Acting Manager ... Mr. H. J. Magee.
Overture, 8. Carriages, 10.30.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCE3S !
of the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in
Harr}' Nicolls and W. Lesfcocq’s Farcial Comedy,
“ JANE.”
Preceded at 7.45 by Eille Norwood’s Comedietta, entitled,
“HOOK AND EYE.”
Prices—ss, 3s, 2s and Is. Box Plan at Nicholson's.
npHEATRE ROYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer ... Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the direction of Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Henry Pettitt’s Domestic Comedy Drama,
TAKE3N IFZROJVC LIFE.
Prices of Admission—Es., 3s. and ONE SHILLING.
CT-OLOEIA.M: iY.
Uac Rattle of Gettysburg.
Just added. New and Wonderful Effects:—Bugle Calls
Cannonading, Musketry Firing. Military Band every After-
noon and Evening. The Battlefield by Night: Gathering
up the wt tin ltd in the gloom of night. The Dead March.
The Storn : Thunder, Lightning, Rain. Special effects,
3 and 8 p.m. No matter if you have seen the Cyclorama
before, come again and see the wonderful effects. Bring
the children.
LECTURES HOURLY. OPEN DAILY, 10 to 10.
ONLY A SHILLING NOW!
Children Half-Price.
GRANDEST SIGHT IN AUSTRALIA.
O N D I AQUARIUM
Lessee and Proprietor ALFRED WYBURD.
OPEN DAILY from 10 to 6.
The Most Popular
PICNIC and PLEASURE GROUNDS op AUSTRALIA.
Splendid Asphalt Open-Air Skating-Rink Free to Visitors.
Saturday next, engagement of the celebrated FAUST
FAMILY. Sunday next, first appearance of the HUN-
GARIAN CORNET QUARTETTE.
Admission, Is.; Children, 6d, Trams to Gate-Fare, 4d.
Garrick theatre
Proprietors and Managers,
F. E. lIISCOCKS and W. J. WILSON.
Treasurer A, E. POOLEY.
PRONOUNCED SUCCESS.
JANET ACHURCH AS STEPHANIE
in the World-famous Comedy-Drama,
POBG-ET-ME-FTOT.
JANET ACHURCH as STEPHANIE DE MOHRIVART.
Box Plan at Vestibule of Theatre.
Prices 55., 45., 35., and One Shilling.
FRED. B. NORTON,
General Theatrical and Amusement Agent.
At Homes, Garden Parties, Fetes, Coming of Age,
Friendly Societies, Demonstrations, provided with
every description of Talent from £5 to £5OO.
ELOCUTION, DRAMATIC ART, STAGE TUITION.
Pupils received. Private or Public Lessons.
Twenty-four years Experience as Actor, Manager, and
Proprietor, graduating in the famous Princess’ Theatre
(Manchester) School, 1867.
Office Hours — lo.3o until 5 o'clock.
*7 Victoria Chambers,
CASTLEREAGH and ELIZABETH STREETS,
SYDNEY.
Third Floor. Take the Elevator.
Registered address for cablegrams, “ Vigilant,” Sydney.
Now Beady : Post Free, Is. 6d.
THE LIFE, ADVENTURES and CON-
FESSIONS OF A SYDNEY BARMAID;
being a truthful account of Private and Public
Bars, the Inner Life of Cafes, and the Manners,
Habits, Customs, Aspirations, and Morals of
Barmaids generally, with a glance at the patrons
of Private Bars. Highly interesting. To be had
only of Mdme. PANZA, Box 913 G.P.O.
LYCEUM THEATRE and HOTEL,
now in course of Erection,
PITT + STREET + SYDNEY.
For Terms to Lease Same Separately, apply to
W. T. MUSTON,
Royal Park, Willoughby, SYDNEY.
UNION HOTEL,
Petrie’s Bight, BRISBANE.
Mrs. HURLEY ... Proprietress.
Only Best Brands of Wines, Spirits and Beer
kept. First class Accommodation for Travellers.
One of Burroughes and Watts’ best Tables.
(SARAH BERNHARDT, a Biographical and Criti-
O cal Sketch, written by AUSTIN BRERETON, author
of the Life of Henry Irving, Shakespearean Scenes and
Characters, etc., for seven years editor of Dramatic Notes,
assistant editor of The Theatre, dramatic critic of Tub
Stage, and other London newspapers. This memoir of
the great French actress is illustrated by Five Full-page
Portraits, specially engraved and separately printed.
Price, ONE SHILLING; per post. Is. 3d. Marcus and
Andrews, 13 Printers and Publishers, To
he had of all Booksellers and Stationers
Furniture, &c.
EWT O N AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and FT ANOFORT R
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMA KERS, UPHOLSTERERS
AND
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS.
SHOW ROOMS AND MANUFACTORY:
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
v*-
m
EASY CHAIRS, for Parlour, Library, or Bed-
rooms, new designs, covered to order, in
any mater al,
PIANOFORTES, by R. LTPP and SOHN,
L. NEUrELD and other Celebrated
Makers at WHOLESALE PRICES. Newton
and Lamb.
BAGATELLE BOARDS, Portable, various
sizes.
Bedroom suites, complete, in various
Woods, and very handsome designs, with
7 feet Wardrobes, or with smaller Wardrobes for
single rooms. Great variety.
NEWTON and LAMB,
Furniture Warehousemen,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
BEDROOM SUITES, fashionable early
English designs—Ward robe 4 feet, with
silvered plate-glass door : Washstand, with marble
top and tile back, Towel Rail; Toilet Table,
with Swing Glass attached; and Two Cane-
Seated Chairs, 14 guineas.
NEWTON & LAMB,
0 Connell and Spring Streets.
o
Canvas folding
COTS, for camping
out. A cheap occasional
bed light, strong, and
handy, 10s. Gd.
Newton & Lamb.
DINING TABLES, with patent extending
screws, from 5 feet long and up to 20 feet.
WALNUT TELESCOPIC DINING
TABLES with extra leaves, strongly
made, £3 10s.
HALL FURNITURE, HATSTANDS and
CHAIRS. LARGE ASSORTMENT.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Library furniture, centre and
SIDE TABLES, BOOKCASES, SECRE-
TARIES, READING and LOUNGE CHAIRS.
COMMODE CHAIRS, BIDETS, with Pan,
SHAVING STANDS, NEWTON and
LAMB.
JAPANESE BLINDS, White or Green (extra
quality), fitted with pulleys and cord, G x 8,
6s. 6d.; 8 x 8, 95.; 9xB, 9s. 6d.;10. x 8, 10s.'Gd.;
12x8, 12s. Gd.; 12x10, 15s. Newton & Lamp.,
Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and O'Connell
Streets.
EASY CHAIRS for Parlour, Library or Bed-
rooms. New Designs covered to order in
any material. Newton & Lamb.
SELF-ADJUSTING CHAIR and COUCH,
for Invalids and Medical Men.
n
OCKING EASY CHAIRS, elegant and
restful- a speciality. Newton & Lamb.
ò
A.
USTEIAN
CHAIRS
in
GREAT VARIETY.
NEWTON & LAMB.
o
Q ANYAS FOLDING
CHAIRS.
Substantial and Light.
Suitable for Shipboard and
Verandah.
Price Very Low.
NEWTON and LAMB
Furniture Warehousemen,
Spring and o‘Connell Streets,
GARDEN SEATS, 6ft. long, Rustic Cast-iron
Standards, 14s. 6d., 195., 255., 325. 6d.
Newton and Lamb.
Yerandah chairs.
INDIAN LONG ARM LOUNGES.
"O ATTAN YERANDAH LOUNGES, from
Jell 15s. ; and largo variety of Chairs, from
10s. 6d.; special designs, extra quality. Newton
and Lamb, Furniture Warehousemen, Spring and
O’Connell Streets.
N
EWTON AND LAMB.
FURNITURE and PIANOFORTE
WAREHOUSEMEN,
CABINETMAKERS, UPHOLSTERERS
and
BEDDING MANUFACTURERS,
Show Rooms and Manufactory:
SPRING and O’OONNELIi STREETS.


The London & Sydney Tea 00. supply families,
and deliver teas free anywhere in N.S. Wales.
D R
RENDLE, BRISBANE
(opposite the Post Office).
iar ADVICE BY LETTER IF REQUIRED.
Rose’s Lime Juice Cordial.
Recommended by the Lancet and the Medical Faculty as
the best drink at all times. Invaluable in warm weather.
Insist on getting the genuine brand —“ ROSE’S.”
Wholesale Agents:
ICTCTESS & 00.,
14 €A»TLKREI(iH BTBKET, BYBNBV.
A perfectly sound body and a mind unimpaired
ar* possible only with pure blood. Leading
medical authorities indorse Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as
the best blood-purifying medicine in existence.
The “Cup” Blend a marvellous tea in the cup.
MR. A. J. HARRIS, of 69 Market-street
(next door to Uhde & Co.), Sydney, has
always on hand the best of POULTRY and
GAME, Dressed or otherwise. Customers will
always receive hero full value for their money,
and orders by letter will be promptly attended
to. Maw the address !
THE WATERBURY WATCHES have
derived their reputation of being
RELIABLE TIMEKEEPERS
from the myriads of grateful purchasers who have
satisfied themselves that they are fully up to the
standard of excellence claimed by the makers.
They are STRONG,
HANDSOME,
SERVICEABLE,
WELL-FINISHED WATCHES,
and far more reliable than half of the jewelled-all-
over-patent-half-cock-go-as-you-please-back- action
chronographs of the day. Genuine testimonials
as to their worth can be produced by the thou-
Messrs. Thompson Bros., storekeepers, Cor-
dillera, N.S.W., writes “It gives us great
pleasure in stating that out of 100 watches sold by
us, only one has ever been returned, and this one
was afterwards proved to have had unusually
rough treatment. We can strongly recommend
the Waterbury as a cheap and honest watch.” _
John C. Teelawney, Esq., Maidenhead Station,
Tenterfield, writes: “Having had a practical
acquaintance with your watches for nearly five
years, I beg to testify to their invariable accuracy
in recording time. The paucity of the English
language fails to furnish me with terms adequate
to express my high approval of them.”
Lieut. Wm. Waddilove, R.N.R., Commander
of the R.M.S. Iberia, says : “I beg to state that
I have carried with me for the past two years one
of your short-winding Waterbury watches. It
has proved a most reliable timekeeper, and I find
it most useful at sea, as moving its hands does
seem to affect its accuracy.”
A better proof of the known excellence of the
Waterbury Watches could not be wished for than
the fact that many unprincipled dealers attempt
to palm off on the unwary inferior imitations as
“as good as, or better than, the Waterbury.”
Purchasers should note that no watch sold as a
Waterbury is genuine without it has the word
Waterbury printed in fine type upon its dial face,
and also the interlaced letters W.W. Co. The
genuine articles may be obtained from any leading
respectable dealer or storekeeper throughout the
colony. Prices : Series E, the old long-winding
favourite, 13s 6d ; Series J, the new short-winding
Gentlemen’s Waterbury, 22s fid ; Series L, the
Ladies Gem, 22s fid.
COLGATE’S
Soaps
Perfumes
Colgate
GOLD MEDAL,
PARIS, 1889.
DR. SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will
positively CURE Nervous Headache or
Neuralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary everyday use they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dan-
druff and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow’ long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles—not wires, which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
Dr Scott’s Electric Brushes, Corsets, Belts, &c.
May be obtained from T. W. Johnston & Co.,
Washington H. Soul & Co., and all chemists
and storekeepers, or from the
Pall Mall Electric Association*
68 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
CORRESPONDENCE
“Italians”: The Now Orleans lynching affa.r
happens to bs within the State jurisdiction of Louisiana,
and, curiously enough, the Federal authority of the
United States has nothing to do with it. Italy can do
nothing but foam and curse anyway, unless she likes to
declare war against Louisiana. That would come within
ihe meddling powers of the Federal Government....
“ Sugar” ; The planters have got two years yet in which
to find a substitute for Kanaka labour ... “ Borroloola :
Vour story could not bo given in so direct a fashion.
It is dealt with elsewhere impersonally. Thanks
“ Eidsvold ” (Q.): Head the yarn again and you will see
that The Bulletin does not say that the “Big” Joyces
are “ natives of Toowoomba,” but that it was the account
of themselves which they are said to have given to the
showman “Bushman” (North Bourke): We scarcely
pose as financial advisers. If the company has departed
from its articles of association, you and other shareholders
can combine if you like either to oust the directorate (if
you are strong enough) or to move for compulsory
liquidation before the law courts. “Is it worth your
While to pay any more calls?” Head up the articles of
association first and see what provision is made for forfeit-
ing shares on non-payment of calls, and judge for your-
self whether you can be compelled to pay. We
venture no opinion about the solvency or future pro-
spects of the company.... “Mrs. Fred. K.” : Thanks...
“Disgusted Australian”; This seems to be the same
marine monster who was brought before a Sydney
police-court by bis men. The captain who denies his men
vegetables, limejuice and proper food, while kicking and
beating them, deserves imprisonment. If the law fails
to punish him, the men have only one remedy—mutiny.
If you have a real grievance, and only if you have one,
refuse to obey orders and defy the captain “James
Penman ” (11. j: Yes, but Hopkinses don’t grow on every
tree ~. “ R.H. St. 0.” :To hand. Will read “John
B.” (Montague I.); The only thing you can do, other
means failing, is to apply to a solicitor. We don’t know
how far your claim will be affected by this recent
bankruptcy .. “Constant Header” (Ballarat): You are
quite right. Ballarat should have more letters, per-
haps, but, then, space is valuable, and we are not going
to give it silent letters anymore than we are going to
say “ Wagga Wagga ” when one Wagga will do. We have
half-a-mind to spell Ballarat with one “1 ”....“0.0. :
Douglas Jerrold, Sir Boyle Roche, and Aspinall are purely
legendary personages . .“P.A.L.”: Dr. Dobson, Mel-
bourne, is the lawn tennis czar—not we....“ J.S.” : But,
then, who in “Walter Graham?”. ...“Ne’er-do-weer :
An excellent but coarse story, hideously true, no
doubt. Will consider.... “Jimmy P”: Thanks, but
you didn’t send the Gordon notice “ Barcoo :
Thanks “ W.N.E.” (Cunnamulla, Q.): We think
with you that the misrepresentations of tlm capi-
talistic press do not seriously hurt unionists. No one
believes that the Cunnamulla committee receive £3OO a
year each, the Cunnamulla Argus to the contrary not-
withstanding “Peace”: We understand that you
have reported the blustering and blasphemous officer to
Colonel Secretary Tozer ; we suppose that the latter has
sufficient sense of fair-play to hold an enquiry. On the
other hand, it is just as likely that the bully will get pro-
motion and a honorarium for his blackguardly offensive-
ness. Was he sober?.... “True Blue ” (Adavale, Q.); See
above “J. B 1”: The whole thing rests on a pun,
which is not a sufficiently good pun... “ Janies Tait ”:
No report received.... “ James Chisholm ”It is the old
series of The Bulletin which is now especially difficult to
get “ M.S.”: The unionists should not resign from the
defence forces. On the contrary, they should see that
they are well-represented therein, so that military power
may not he a monopoly of the classes... “ J.H.C.” :
Rather late. It tianspires that at the Convention Dele-
gates’ picnic to the Hawkesbury some months ago the
ladies of the party conferred upon Dan O’Connor
the title of “the elected squire of dames.”
“ A. 0.”: “ Waning ” is, we believe, the native name of
Blue’s Point, North Shore, Sydney "H.T.”: But
Tennyson’s “ In Memoriam” lines, “I hold it truth with
him who sings,” refer to Goethe, not the Psalmist....
“Arthur Mullett” (Gin Gin): Never heard of the animal.
Write to Sydney Mail. ...“ H.G.T.” (Carlton): Haven’t
time to hunt up galloping consumptives. Try some
medical journal ~. “ A.S.U.” : The Private Callaghan so-
called poisoning incident was all fudge. Callaghan was
not given strychnine at all, as analysis shows. The story
had a Dixiesh flavour about it from the first “ F.C.” :
The element of chance makes whist superior to chess
“Balmoral Brown”: Interesting and unique, but too
malodorous... “J.H.G.”: Will print one shortly....
“Daniels.”; Thanks for clipping. .. “M. Ay.” : Thanks.
Wesleyan item is pretty ancient “E.E.Q.” (Bns.):
Have read your good-natured letter, and apologise....
“W.C.”: Will read “A. 0.”: Let us condense your
argument:—
“ Spare the rod, and spoil the child,
Were the words of Solomon Mild.
That’s the way to heart and head,
Wallop’em, widlop’em, Solomon said.”
“Central” (Wagga); We have forgotten “Orb’s”
address perhaps he will himself supply it... “J. C.
Doughty ” ; Thanks “A. C. Duesbury ” ; The Bulletin
does not advocate, and never has advocated, “the
abolition of capital punishment with a view to the
abolition of punishing murderers.” It sees that, philo-
sophically' considered, capital punishment can be no
deterrent of murder, and that in practice it does not
deter murder. Further, that it is a punishment for the
unjust infliction of which no earthly reparation ispossible.
The Bulletin does not “sympathise with murder”—it
only argues logically', and in opposing torture and
capital punishment, it has reason, experience, and the
growing instinct of civilisation on its side. The “maud-
lin sentimentalists” are not those who object to the law
keeping a butcher on hand to cold-bloodedly slaughter
criminals, but those who support an ancient and illogical
barbarity to the alleged efficacy of which modern
psychology and the history of fifty centuries give the lie..
“ Arty ” : Don’t think your verses pithy enough, doncher-
know I..“Tobul” : Bathetic and unmetrical. .“Glynn ” :
Bad verse and worse sentiment “Wortley Clutter-
buck ” : As we do not pronounce the word “ ideer,” and as
you give us no instance of the lady’s brightness, we do
not feel impressed by the brightness of your “idea.”
“ Ralph ”: Yes, love makes men write “ cronk ” verse
“H. G.”( Brisbane): No, thank you. .. “ Nulla-Nulla ”
You aim high but don’t hit.... “W. M. Me.”: Your article
rather long and heavy; no new points “A. A.”:
Learning the noble art of self-defence is like keeping a re-
volver in the house-safer, on the average, without
“Scotty the W.” : “ Payable Gold”—lovely. Do it again.
.... “P. Bourke ” : Well, this is the most positively last.
(1) Barry Sullivan acted Long Tom Coffin in “ The Pilot,”
and sang “The Wonderful Crocodile.” (2) Harwoood
burlesqued him in “Catching a Conspirator.” [Many
replies held over.]
The Impending War Between Prance and
Germany.
The Empress Frederick has returned to Berlin,
and related her experiences and practical expulsion
from Paris to the Emperor William. His Im-
perial Majesty flew into a rage at the treatment
to which his mother was subjected, expressed his
indignation to the Chancellor of the Empire, and
ordered the immediate mobilisation of three army
corps. Thus the gloomy European political
horizon has assumed a Gilt more sombre hue, and
the immediate future will probably witness one of
the most desperate struggles between two nations,
who, during the past two decades, have lived in a
high state of tension. One of the last utterances
of the great German warrior, Von Moltkc, who,
rich in years and honours, after a stormy and
glorious career has just been carried to his final
resting-place, was : “ Woe to him who sets Europe
on tire by hurling a brand into the powder-cask.”
In this instance France once more furnishes
the casus belli. The Empress came on a peace-
ful mission, but her overtures were rejected, and
it appears the royal visitor treated with but Scant
courtesy. As a result of it we quake with fear at
the possibility that Europe may be ablaze at any
moment, the flower of manhood swept into war
with its attendant horrors, while grief-stricken
widows and orphans in their bitterness of sorrow
weep for their dearly-beloved husbands and
fathers ! We shudder while contemplating the
dangers and horrors of war, little thinking that
we expose ourselves daily to similar perils, and
through neglect foster the creeping march of sick-
ness. Especially in the present season of the year,
the atmosphere is charged with disease germs,
which act as yeast in the material of the human
fabric. Subtle influences taint the air, and a re-
storative is required to generate pure blood. No
beter remedy has ever been discovered than Menti-
play’s pills. They are in reality the most potent
medicine for chronic diseases of the kidneys and
liver, and are warranted to cure Bright’s disease in
itsmostincipientstage. Being prepared in the shape
of a pill, the medicine does not produce any hurt-
ful effects, as liquid preparations containing
strong alcohol usually do. Writes Mr. J. F.
Armitage, a well-known colonist, residing at No.
.3, North-street, Balmain, under date May 15,
1891;—“I suffered for along time with catarrh
of the bladder, a diseased state of the water,
accompanied with intense inflammation of the
kidneys. The bowels were much bloated at times,
while I suffered from unbearable headaches.
Since the use of Mentiplay’s pills I feel radically
improved, and a new man in mind and body.”
Mentiplay’s Blood Elixir is a high class medicine
for producing a healthy circulation of the blood,
is a safe cure for neuralgia, gout, and muscular
rheumatism, as well as all diseases of the skin. It
is a matchless remedy for women undergoing a
change of life, and imparts a beautiful complexion
to the skin. Wholesale through Elliott Bros.,
Ltd., the Australian Drug Co., or S. Hoffnung
and Co., Sydney ; Rocke, Tompsitt and Co., Mel-
bourne : or direct from the manufacturers, W.
Mentiplay and Co., 78 Bourke-street E. Mel-
bourne. ’insist on getting what you ask for, let
not the words too late be written against you, act
before Nature’s forces declare war against your
life.
Round the Shops and Shows.*
That most becoming material, astrakhan,
has fairly caught on this season, scarcely a costume
being complete without a dash of it, somewhere.
Very pretty pelerines, with high collars, in black
astrakhan are being shown in Messrs. Cecil Hor-
dern and Co.’s establishment, 486, 488, and 490
George-street, which are not only stylish-looking
but extremely comfortable wearing. Here another
speciality is shown in clouds, the prettiest being
of all silk in the most beautiful shades, and are
sold at the wonderfully low figure of 10s. 6d.
* # *
The Ceylon-Pekoe-Souchong tea is sold by
Messrs. Harris and Co., 18, Royal Arcade, at 2s.
per lb. This tea possesses a particularly delicate
flavour, and is one of the purest teas in the
market. It can be highly recommended.
# * *
Mr. P. Stanich, aurist, from the Imperial
and Royal University “clinics” for diseases of the
ear, Vienna and Germany, has removed his con-
sulting-rooms to 20 Wynyard-square, where he can
be consulted daily. Dr. Stanich will devote his
attention to the deserving poor for ear, throat and
nose diseases every Tuesday.
# * *
In summer time, when a lady spends a
day shopping in Sydney, she is generally content
to partake of the lightest refreshment at mid-day,
but now, when the air is sharp and keen, some-
thing more than a cup of tea and confections is
needful to sustain her throughout a fatiguing day,
so the best thing she can do is to go straight to
the ladies’ room at the City Buffet, George-street,
where an excellent dinner is served from one
shilling upward.
# * *
Good health and good humour can be
preserved by taking daily a dose of Marie
Brizard’s rum—obtainable at any wine merchants,
leading hotels or grocers. It is put up in wicker
bottles.
# * *
At the Burwood Private Assembly ball,
which eventuated on one of this month’s Fridays,
much favourable comment was made concerning
the artistic decorations which were carried out by
Messrs. Llewellyn and Wilfred Jones, under the
guidance of Mr. Wyatt. The material for the
decorations was from Mr. Wyatt’s Oriental
Bazaar. The wall drapings were extremely
graceful, and the two divans very cosy—conse-
quently well patronised. These Oriental decora-
tions promise to hold good through the season, if
not longer, and are a pleasant change from the
everlasting flags, tree-ferns, &c.
# * *
* Any lady who is prevented through cir-
cumstances from doing her shopping, can have
any commissions quickly and faithfully executed
at any of the establishments mentioned in this
gaper by sending her orders, addressed to “ Mab,”
IutLETiN Office, Pitt-street.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Henry Sampson, of the Referee, who died last
week, and who visited Australia a few years ago, was
defendant in a couple of big libel actions. A ”Out t
years after Irving bad jumped into fame, a serio-comic
letter appeared in Fun (a paper which is generally se
and seldom comic), denouncing the new tragedian as
man who devoted his genius to the glorification of crime
upon the stage. Burgomaster Matthias, / J ■
Charles I. and Eugene Aram were characters instanced in
point. Irving went savagely for Fun, or, rather, i
writer of the letter—Sampson. The actor wanted no
money damages, but an abject apology, and Samp ,
declining for some time to apologise, was about to oe
committed to the dungeon, when his friends mduc
to eat humble pie and retain his liberty. Clement ®c
action against the Referee was another theatrical cans
celebre in which Sampson, as editor of the Sunday journal,
got the worst of the deal. The Referee P u bbsh
rumour that Scott had levied blackmail upon Admiral
Carr-Glynn, the elderly swell to whom Adelaide Neilson
bequeathed most of her money. Scott obtained
solatium for his feelings, and had the satisfaction, a tew
months later, of reading the Ref.’s admission that it naa
been imposed upon by false information. Quiterecen y»
own Frank Slavin was said to be getting up a case ag.
the Ref., on account of Sampson’s nasty insinuations re
the genuineness of M'Aulitfe’s “knock-out, but the
matter seems to have dropped into oblivion. Considering
that poor “Pendragon” was the boldest and bluntest
truth-teller on the London,press he was very successful in
keeping outside the law-courts. More especially as ne
had a host of enemies in his own profession, bampson
never tired of scoffing at the mutual-adnnration school of
journalists, the men who advertise one another into
positions of sham distinction, and pose at fashionable
functions as representative oracles. He was very I ' OU S >
too, on the grovelling humbug of theatrical criticism, ana
several of his gibes at the managerial system ot quoting
slaver “ notices ” from obscure rags—notices
the double purpose of being published amongst opinions
of the Press,” and ot securing free admissions tor
the papers so prostituting themselves—have been re-
printed in Tub Bulletin. Sampson wrote on art and tne
drama almost as capably as he held forth upon
variety of sport. He could make a disputed l-16th ot a
second in a foot-race the subject of a readable article, ana
his reminiscences of prize-fighters would interest a
Church parson in spite of himself. Versed in all turf
intricacies, and an especially good judge of horse L 0 ™ >
Sampson had no faith in racing prophecy, not even in tne
usually creditable efforts of his own Referee soothsay er.
In the old days he supplied Fun with several astoundingiy
good “tips” in rough verse. Afterwards he stated, in
the Ref., that the winners he then gave had been chosen
at haphazard just to meet the exigencies of his rhyme.
Mr. Sampson was a right-down good fellow, a little rous
in his style, but with a big and good heart. He ml Ihe
affectionately remembered by the many friends he made
in this country as an embodiment of all the best points of
the manly Englishman.
MR. JOHN MACNAMARA
(The discoverer of the celebrated Ti-Ta remedy).
We had occasion lately to express a doubt as to
whether George Watson was altogether flawless as a
starter, hut that need not bar, as with a six-barred gate,
our congratulations on the 39th anniversary of the Master-
ship of the Melbourne Hounds, a few days back, when he
led out a hunting-party of 300. When it is set down that
George has thus officiated since 1852, an enormous tribute
is involved to his combination of the sportsman and the
gentleman. A host of his compeers have gone under be-
cause of the illusion that the brandy-bottleis a necessary in-
gredient. Watson has been considered knocked out several
times but the man of wire came round again. One can
never sufficiently admire that pluck which has inspired
him to start the Melbourne Cup race field of 30 horses,
while he stood in the centre facing them on foot.
• * •
Common ought to win the English Derby if he
starts first favourite. The horse is trained in a stable
that makes very few mistakes, and knows what sort of
card is required to take the big trick.
* # *
The stewards of Wyndham (Vic.) racecourse
have passed sentence of ten years’ disqualification upon
an owner and trainer whose identities are said to be
“ shrouded in mystery.” If the offending animal hasn’t
got an owner or trainer, the police ought to run it in for
roaming at large.
* * *
It is expected that the conditions for this year’s
Melbourne Cup will make provision for the possibility of
a Ally winning either of the Derbies. Tub Bulletin has
solemnly and repeatedly warned the V.R.O. Committee
that the minimum Cup weight for Derby winners should
be five pounds less for Allies than for colts. This is a
question of women’s rights which such a notoriously gal-
lant club must see to.
# * *
A certain Sydney sporting scribe is said to be a
candidate for what are known as “parliamentary
honours.” So far as The Bulletin is aware, his only
public utterance up to date is: “Now, gents, you know
the rules, but let me tell you if you don’t make it willin’
there’ll be no stuff.”
« • *
“ Jack ” Fielder bids fair to shine at the illegi-
timate game as brilliantly as he did in the past as a light-
weight on the flat. It was Fielder’s riding that won the
race for Letty Lind over the Hurdles at Randwick on
Saturday.
* * •
The sporting medico must have smiled at Rand-
wick on Monday when Grafton literally walked in for the
Steeplechase. It was freely remarked after the race that
he ran without shoes and with a marked contrast to the
race at Rosehill when ho carried the same weight (list.
21b.), not including the “hunter’s plates.”
# * *
The long-expected fight—Jackson v. Corbett, at
California Club—has ended, it is cabled, in a draw after 61
rounds, Jackson having the advantage in the first 30.
The pair are to fight again for £l5OO, the club having
now presented each man with £5OO. At Charters Towers
the Lees-Goddard fight resulted, after the first round, in
Lees sprinting round the ring with Goddard in chase, and
finally the police stopped the trouble. To end, the
Ohoynajki-Pooley fight at Melbourne ended in the second
roiindTwhen Choynski hit Dooley on the point of the jaw .
A NURSE’S REPORT.
Medical men say that a good nurse in a difficult
case is better than medicine, but when we can get
a good nurse and good medicine, the patient
stands a much bettor chance of recovery. The
few words of advice given below by nurse Eliza
King, of Great Massingham, Swaffham, are well
worthy the attention of all readers of this paper.
They are as follows ; “I have constantly used St.
Jacobs oil in the various situations I have occupied
as nurse, and have invariably found it excellent
in all cases requiring outward applications, such
as sprains, bruises, rheumatic affections, neuralgia,
&c. In cases of pleurisy it is an excellent remedy
—well rubbed in. I can strongly recommend it,
after several years’ use and experience. It should
be in every household.” Sister Carolina, St.
Andrew’s Hospital, Clewer, Windsor, writes
“ I take this opportunity of stating that I have
found St. Jacobs oil a most efficacious remedy in
gout, also in sprains and bruises. Indeed, we
cannot say too much in its praise, and our doctor
is ordering it constantly.”
Henry and Ann Bright, hon. superintendents
of the North London Home for Aged Christian
Blind Women, say that a remedy has proved itself
unfailing : that rheumatism and neuralgia have,
in every case, been removed by St. Jacobs oil —
the remedy referred to —and that many old ladies,
some of them 90 years old, instead of tossing about
in agony, now enjoy a good night’s rest through
its influence. Mrs. Bright says she cannot say
enough in its favor.
Six gold medals have been awarded to St.
Jacobs oil for its marvellous power to relieve and
cure pain. It acts like magic. It cures when
everything else has failed. It has cured people
who have been lame and crippled with pain over
20 years. It cures rheumatism, neuralgia, face-
ache, backache, sprains, and other bodily pains.
It is an external remedy. It penetrates to the
seat of the disease. It is simple, safe, and sure.


The Potts Point young lady is a waist
product.
Wolfe’s Schnapps should ba in every house.
An Adelaide Afghan recently had his head
shaved prior to getting married. Ho married an
Englishwoman !
The “Assam” Blend Tea has stood the test of
10 years.
Recommended by doctors—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The Maorilaud papers report a somewhat
agitating incident which lately befell a man named
Sewell and shook up the even tenor of his exist-
ence. Mr. Sewell was driving a three-horse dray
on the road from Westport to Reefton, and in a
moment of abstraction drove over a precipice 100
feet deep, with the Buller River at the bottom of
it, and he, and the three horses, and the waggon,
and a ton of produce all went bursting through the
air together. He remembers distinctly having
started on that unexpected journey, but after that
there is a gap in his recollections, and the next
thing he can realise is that he was hanging head-
downwards in a bush, and far below him there
were some splinters of a waggon and something
else that looked like a butcher’s shop fallen from
the clouds. After a while some kind friends came
along and hauled Mr. Sewell up again, and
picked out a quantity of branches that had got
imbedded in his system, and unless some of the
tree that was driven into his head should produce
an injurious effect on his brain he will probably be
all right.
The original genuine article —Wolfe’s Schnapps
New Goods for Winter Wear —Hosiery,
Mercery, Suitings and Trouserings. Write for
Patterns and System of Measurement. J. S.
MAN WARING, 59 Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Tea in 201 b. and 401 b. packages at 1/6, 1/9 and
2/- per lb., delivered free by the L. & S. Tea Co.
AYER’S HAIR VIGOR is unrivaled for
the restoration of faded and gray hair to its
original color and freshness, and for keeping
the scalp clean and healthy. The most popular
and elegant toilet preparation in the world, all
who use it, pronounce it, also, the best hair-
grower. When the capillary glands become en-
feebled by disease, age, or neglect, this dressing
imparts renewed life to the scalp, so that the
hair again assumes its original
Fullness and Beauty.
Ladies find that this preparation imparts to the
hair a silken pliancy and a delicate and lasting
fragrance. Gentlemen use it to prevent bald-
ness, to restore faded and gray hair to its former
color and abundance, and to relieve the scalp of
troublesome humors and dandruff. A proof of
the superiority of this preparation over all
others of the kind is the constantly-increasing
demand for it in all civilized countries.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
' PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
LADIES’
(English) TANSY PILLS
are better than Steel or Penny-
royal. Cures obstructions from
whatever cause. Never fails.
No pills or powders like them,
IF. Cavendish,F. rne
THE LATEST TRIUMPH OF ELECTRICAL SCIENCE.
ó
“ A Useful and
Beautiful Inven-
tion, which WILL
BE UNIVERSALLY
APPRECIATED."
Retail, 3s 6d each.
“ Since I used the Electric
Hair Curler my hair has
gained in strength and lustre,
and crimps and curia as if by
magic, lam determined that
all my friends shall use it.’
Unsolicited testimonials, couched in the most eulogistic terms, have been
received from all parts of the world by the inventor of this ingenious, time-saving,
and altogether admirable piece of mechanism. . .
By its aid the hair, beard, or moustache can be curled in any style in two
minutes. It produces any form desired by ladies wearing their hair in the fashion-
able “ loose and fluffy ” mode. A beautiful article; handle of rosewood, other
part nickel-plated. , , ~ , ~, .
Entirely harmless to the hair. Saves time and trouble, and never fails to
curl or crimp in the most graceful, beautiful, and artistic style.
Ladies who wear crimps, or other forms of false hair, will find the Electric
Curler an article of the greatest utility. It is simple in its operation, and can be
used by everybody with entire success the first time. It has become indispensable,
and within a short time almost universally adopted by the ladies of England and
America.
Can now be obtained
through all Chemists and Per-
fumers, &c., in the Colonies.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs.
Elliot Bbos., Sydney and
Brisbane; and Felton, Ghimwade & Co., Melbourne.
ELECTRIC CURLER COMPANY, 32 Snow Hill, London, E C.
ô
WITH TATTERSALL’S COMPLIMENTS.
W 6 have had our attention called to the fact that other Sweep
Promoters in Sydney are copying our NAME, CIRCULARS, etc.,
and as this may mislead our many subscribers, we beg respectfully
to call the attention of our clients to the fact that our Only
Address is
TATTERSALL,”
Care of George Adams,
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—“ TATTERSALL’S ” are the only Genuine Suc-
cessful Consultations in the Colonies.
jb Hint to EEairaressers.
CRAIG & AITKEN
are the people to send to for your Requisites. They are in
the Trade themselves, and know where and what to buy.
THEY HAVE A GRAND STOCK
—OF—
HAIRDRESSING CHAIRS (American and Ordinary), MIRRORS, HOTWATER URNS,
SHAMPOOING BASINS, TAPS, TANKS and APPARATUS, BARBERS’ POLES,
CUTTING CLOTHS, APRONS, STROPS, RAZORS, SCISSORS, BRUSHES, &c.
In fact, everything connected with the Trade.
SEND for a SAMPLE of our SHAVING SOAP—the Finest in the World for Hairdressers.
Saloons Thoroughly Fitted Out. CASH or TERMS.
Send for Price List to their ONLY ADDRESS—
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN, 680 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
õ
Craig & Aitken,
AGENTS,
680 and GB2 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Send for
PRICE.
DfA PATERSON
A.M., M.D., 0.M., F.R.0.5., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Em,
157
ELIZABETH STREET,
Sydney.
157
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, NERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Look Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with specia'
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old.
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. Gd. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease/'
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House).
ATE
DEB
AND
AK
WE
NERVOUS
AN OLD RETIRED
FRENCH HOSPITAL
PHYSICIAN will now
send free how to cure
Nervous and Sexual
Weaknesses, Blood, Skin
and Contagious Diseases.
Send six penny stamps
for sealed Treatise and
HOME CURE. Parisian Agency, Box 766, Sydney.
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
ENGINEERS
- -
General Machinery Merchants.
103. Clarence-st., Sydney, & at Melbourne & Brisbane,
HAVE LARGE STOCKS OF THE UNDERMENTIONED MACHINERY, &c.
PUMPING MACHINERY.
BLAKE’S DIRECT ACTING
STEAM PUMPS (single and
duplex).
BLAKE’S POWER PUMPS.
BLAKE’S DOUBLE PLUNGER
PUMPS.
LAWRENCE MACHINE CO.’S
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
GOULD’S HAND & POWER
PUMPS.
EDSON’S DIAPHRAGM PUMPS.
Also, all sizes of
PIPING, FITTINGS, VALVES,
HOSE, &c., &c.
Webber’s Patent Centrifugal Pump.
MINING MACHINERY.
BAKER’S BLOWERS.
STURTEYANT’S FAN, BLOWERS
4ND EXHAUSTS.
DUNCAN CONCENTRATORS.
TWO-HEAD STAMP BATTERIES.
LAMBERTON’S PATENT PUL-
VERISING MILLS.
UNION ORE CRUSHERS.
BRYAN MILLS.
TAYLOR’S HAND ORE
CRUSHERS,
HAND AMALGAM MORTARS.
HYDRAULIC NOZZLES & DE-
FLECTORS (for sluicing).
Also, FLEXIBLE STEEL WIRE
ROPE, AMERICAN FUSE,
&c., &c.
STEAM ENGINES —Horizontal and Vertical, with and without Boilers combined, from two horse power. VERTICAL BOILERS from two horse power. Hoisting
Engines. Boiler Feed Injectors. ENGINEERS’ MACHINE TOOLS, including Turning Lathes, Radial and other Drilling Machines, Screwing Machines &c.
FAIRBANK S Scales and Weighbridges. Denison’s Suspended Weighing Machines. Woodworking Machinery. Lubricating Oils, Skip Grease, Belting, Emery Wheels,
Sight Feed Lubricators, Pickering Engine Governors. Correspondence Solicited. All enquiries promptly attended to.
A C3-OL 3DE3ST SHAN'T "ST.’


IN
CHILDREN
or ADULTS effectually Cured by
WATSON’S
CELEBRATED
GINGERBREAD
WORM NUTS.
This valuable and sate Medicine possesses, in a very
pleasant form, all the virtues of the most efficacious
remedies and is particularly suitable for administering
to Children, who take it readily.
Parents suspecting their Children to be suffering from
w°tTn n ,fll 0U ! d loae t!me ln Paving the value of
hTSON S WORM NUTS. Extensively used since 1852.
vrice, Is. per Box ;by Post, Is. 2d. Prepared only at
WATSON S DRUG STORES, 581 QeorqeSt.. Sydney.
Sold by Chemists and ° ’ t>YDNSV *
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write to Messrs. Pike Bros., Brisbane,
for price-list of their goods for gentlemen’s wear ;
also for self-measurement forms and patterns
from the Tailoring Department.
Colemane and Sons sugar-coated Eucalypte
Pills. Abo, Eucalypte Lozenges. Try them.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible A Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR E,
(Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
BUCKINGHAM PARK ESTATE,
MEDLOW (Blue Mountains).
This charming Estate has its Railway Platform almost
adjoining, and its level land proves it to be eminently
adapted for residential purposes. Nature seems to have
lavished all her varied charms on BUCKINGHAM PARK,
which is, without exception, the CREAM or PICKED
SPOT on the BLUE MOUNTAINS.
BUCKINGHAM PARK ESTATE
Is beautifully surveyed. The Allotments are unusually
large—from 100 up to 180 feet frontages, w-ith long depths
—thus enabling buyers to have Garden, Tennis Lawns,
etc., if they so desire. In fact, it may be truly said, there
is no finer Residential Land on the Mountains.
"The BELGRAVIA HOTEL, MEDLOW, which cost £4OOO,
is now' open for visitors, and is the First Hotel on the
Mountains supplied with the Electric Light, and the
Proprietor is willing to supply any cottages built on the
estate wnth the electric light. Tw'o elegant Villas are
now nearly finished on this estate. The rapid advance in
the price of land at BLACKHEATH during the past three
years, amounting to fully 300 per cent., clearly shows that
early buyers at Buckingham Park will make a splendid
investment. Title is TORRENS, and the terms are liberal
and to suit buyers. For particulars, apply to the Pro-
prietor, WILLIA3YI EYRE,
119 King Street, SYDNEY.
o*l/
/faa&iCs
Dr. Wm. Xi-fIUNTGSTON, M.R.C.S., Eng.,
late Surgeon in Imperial Forces, Army Medical
Staff, Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act
ot Parliament to practise in all the
branches of Medicine and Surgery, is
now permanently located at Wo. 121 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Being convinced that a vast deal ot misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified physician
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made and appropriate medicines
sent.
The Doctor’s life-long
extending over 40 years,
method of treatment insure a speedy and
permanent cure in all Private, Nervous,
Chronic, Skin, and Special Diseases. No
experimenting, both Sexes Consult
Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY, FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
experience,
and practical
Arising from Indiscretion, Excess or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects—
Nervousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-
Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
Pace, Aversion to the Society of Females,
Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloomi-
ness Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to
Marry, Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Develop
ment, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in
the Back, Varicocele, etc, treated with success. Safely and Privately. _
DI AAH Sr CVIM niCUIldrC forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions,
DLUUU Cl Olvin UiOEifiODO Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful Swellings, from whatever cause,
treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Remedies. Stiff and Swollen Joints and Eheumatism the re-
sult of Blood Poison, CURED. Soft feeling bunch of earth-like worms ; VARICOCELE; IS CURABLE
WITHOUT OPERATION. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treated successfully.
Tumors removed painlessly and without the use of the knife. Rupture instantly relieved and permanently
cured. Fits, Epilepsy, or falling sickness radically cured. Asthma, quick relief ami certain cure. I use
only the best remedies.. Avoid unskilful pretenders and specious promised cure-alls— they are useless,
and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treatea withskill, m a
respectful manner ; and knowing what to do, No Experiments are made. On account of the great
number of cases applying, the charges are kept low. Home Treatment. Persons ailmg at a
distance can be successfully treated at home. REQUIRING IMMEDIATE
TREATMENT can by forwarding particulars of. )£® ir -faseand J e 'e‘veacourse of
treatment by return post. BEFORE CONFIDING TOUB CASE EESEWHEBE,
CONSULT THE OED AND SUCCESSFUL PHYSICIAN, DB. LANGSTON,
age and experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering and shame and add
golden years to life. No mercury or poisonous drugs used.
Dr. WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., &c.
121 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
N.B.—Doctor Langston is the Only Qualified Physician practising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
CONSULTATION FREE.
POLITICAL POINTS
To accept an Imperial title means to accept
an Imperial bribe.
Humoured that 140 prominent New Zea-
landers are to be prosecuted for dummyism.
Dan O’Connor says “ the great men never
die.” Great political frauds do—thank Heaven !
Abraham Lincoln: “Honest statesman-
ship is the employment of individual meannesses
for the public good.”
Parkes (interjecting): “Simply bosh!”
Reid : “Why, here’s the venerable old Christian
patriot talking slang.”
Sir Henry Parkes, G.C.M.G., says that
Grey was “the least-informed man at the Federal
Convention.” How he rankles !
A Victorian : “ The Government of this
province, at all events, may be safely challenged
to prosecute anyone for sedition.”
Bruce Smith says that Federation will
bring with it one instalment of Freetrade. It will
also bring with it 16J instalments of Protection.
The “ Freetrade Democratic Association”
of Victoria, started by Murray Smith, is stone-
broke, and seems likely to die of a debit-balance
forthwith.
The population of China is from three to
four hundred millions, or from three to four per
acre, and the land-tax is half-a-crown per acre
annually.
“The N.S.W. Cabinet do not propose to
appoint any more Js.P. at present.” They’re
saving them for the week before the next general
election.
Parkes: “I have one objection to the
interruptions of the hon. member for Queanbeyan:
he has a most unmusical voice.” (Laughter.)
O’Sullivan, M.P. : “ Something like your poetry.”
(Loud guffaws.)
Rev. Mr. Dixon, B '.ptist parson, of
Quee er, no, of New York. U.S.A. ; —“Let
the delay of public confidence in our judicial
process go on a little while longer, and it will be
necessary to turn the cannon at the battery up
Broadway, plant your Hotchkiss guns in City
Hall Square, and sweep your avenues with grape
and canister.”
Those who say they know, declare that
Parkes projects a trip to Europe, and are kind
enough to add his reasons (1) That he wants to
pose before the British public as the Apostle of
Federation; (2) that Saul Samuel will presently
retire, and Parkes will succeed him as Agent-
General ; (3) that he will aim for a seat in the
Commons through Oaringtonian influence; and
(4) that he wants English leisure to “run
together ” his autobiography.
An Adelaide Hansard reporter’s Parlia-
mentary “turn” (Sir John Downer was speak-
ing) ended with the words “ her Gracious
Majesty the Queen.” Rushing downstairs to
transcribe, the reporter incautiously left the
gallery-door open. Consequently, the House was
suddenly paralysed by hearing a shout (it came, of
course, from the transoribing-room)—“Hey!
Three cheers for the (picturesque) Gracious Mrs.
Brown; she ends my terracotta turn, condemn
her and Downer!”
Says Reynolds :
There is one portion of the Empire, however, which
does not appreciate our aristocratic forms of Government
that is Australia. The proposed federation of the
colonies under the title, “ The Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia,” isone of the most significant movementsdeveloped
by any of our colonies for many years. The Australians,
in fact, are Republicans, and we are Royalists. The two
strains will not mingle. A federated Republic of the
Empire might answer. The existing relationship is un-
satisfactory all round. The colonies do not want our
imperial governors, and we object to bear the burden of
the expense of protecting colonies whose commercial
tariffs are hostile to ourselves. We could hardly be worse
off if the colonies were independent. Indeed, we might
gain, as the expenditure on the fleet could be out down
seven or eight millions a year.
The West Devon (Tas.) election yielded
fun. The candidates were—Dr. M‘Call (sitting
member), J. A. Fogg, and W. B. Button, At
Fogg’s opening meeting the audience elected Dr.
M‘Call to the chair, and insisted on him taking it.
Then Fogg opened out and told tlje audience what
a dunder-headed idiot they had for their member,
and M‘Oall had to sit quietly and listen to it all.
Suddenly, an urgent messenger came for the
Doctor, who had to leave, and the audience, now
thoroughly wicked in its humour, voted. Button to
the chair. _ Fogg then waded in and held up
Button (his opponent) to withering contempt,
showing that, if possible, he was a viler and more
contemptible ass than M‘Call.
The democracy must insist on the right of
free speech as well as the right of public meeting.
One without the other is useless. If an orator
chooses to attempt to harangue a crowd in any
public reserve, that crowd has a right either to
hear him or howl him down. If a public man
rents a hall and invites people to come and listen
to him, those who don’t want to listen have no
right to attend. The howlers are there under
false pretences. The remedy is for the police to
incontinently throw out all disturbers. The will
of the meeting can be ascertained effectually by
the voting afterwards; but the hall is the hirer’s,
and the invitation given is to come and listen and
nob to come and howl.
W. P. Crick styles Sir George Grey “ the
greatest statesman and truest democrat of the
Southern Hemisphere.” True, and yet Grey
always behaves himself as a gentleman.
Thus Townsville Herald: “ Sir John
Robertson died in time to save his name from the
stigma that would have rested on it had he lived
to give the aid to the obstruction of Australian
Federation that he threatened.” Question ?
N.S.W. general election will not come off
at once if the Government can possibly avoid it.
Only the other day Parkes said privately that
“ the Labour trouble must be allowed to cool
down before we go to the country.”
Amount spent annually on gubernato-
rialism in Australasia : Victoria, £10,000;
New South Wales, £7OOO ; South Australia,
£5000; Queensland, £5000; West Australia,
£3000; Tasmania, £3500; Maoriland, £5000;
Extras, including salaries of aides-de-camp, pri-
vate secretaries, special trains, maintenance of
Government houses and grounds, gas, and in some
provinces, coals, interest on capital, &c., say,
£30,000; Total, £08,500. This is stiff, especially
if it be remembered that the salary of the Presi-
dent of the United States, the head of over 70
millions of people, is only £lO,OOO. When we get
a Royal Governor-General, the sum will be about
doubled, probably.
The hideous revelations of grasping greed
made before the N.S.W. Labour Commission, in
respect of “sweaters” in Sydney, have started
the lightnings in the leaden eyes of the ponderous
daily press, and have roused to righteous wrath
tender-hearted, pot-bellied plutocrats, whose
blood madly boils at the recital of these horrors,
and who are wonder-stricken at the possibility of
their existence. But, good people, wherefore this
anger ? Why this curdling indignation ? Know
ye not that the sweater is only faithfully prac-
tising your own gospel ? legitimately carrying
out, in its simple integrity, the “one great prin-
ciple ” on which you take your immovable stand —
the principle of “Freedom of Contract?” Nothing
more, nothing less. “ Freedom of contract,” free
competition, is the right to employ anybody at
any price, no matter how low. That is also
“sweating.”
Following the lead of “ Oommander-in-
Chief” Kintore, Commandant Downes has been
supercilious enough to inflict on the people of
South Australia his little notion that Port Dar-
win “must have Asiatic labour.” The people of
this continent have said and still say that Port
Darwin shall not have Asiatic labour, and it
wouldn’t take much for the popular verdict of
South Australia to be that it shall not have Major-
General Downes. In fact we are saddled with an
arrogant military clique that presumes to dictate
to industrial Australia what its own conditions of
existence shall be, and there seems to be a particu-
lar conspiracy afoot to make Port Darwin a
Chinese settlement and North Queensland a
second Jamaica. The whole clique of military
idlers, bullies and conspirators will be fired out
before this democracy is many years older. We
are waiting for Big Berry and Big Black Wednes-
day.
Dear Bulletin, —The Protection and Politi-
cal Reform League of N.S.W. has been making a
huge ass of itself. It has passed a resolution
“strongly condemning the extraordinary innova-
tions at the opening of the present Parliament,”
one of these objected-to innovations being that
“Parkes moved ordinary business in the House
before the Governor’s Speech had been considered
by the representatives of the people.” Why, this
is one of the privileges the Commons love to assert
as a symbol of their absolute supremacy over the
Crown. It is usual to bring in a “Bill pro formd,”
and lay it on the table before the Queen’s Speech
is dealt with ; this is generally some absurd Bill
which is never heard of ’afterwards, but is never-
theless tabled as a symbol of the paramount rights
of the Commons. In the Queensland Parliament
I have seen so tabled—“A Bill for the better
regulation of Wild Beasts,” and another “to
amend the Law relating to Deodands,” —no such
law being existent in Queensland. But when
exigent circumstances warrant a Premier in pre-
maturely tabling real business he has a right to do
so, and this P. and P. R. League should be the
last to take exception to |an action that simply
asserts the supremacy _of the popular House.—
Yours &0., The D,
“ Not one Government of any Australian
colony has taken the smallest action during the
progress of the strikes on one side or the other. ”
—Sydney Daily Telegraph. Of course not.
The Government’s gatling - guns have always
equally been at the disposal of the unionist
shearers as of the unionist pastoralists—the only
monotonous peculiarity being that the muzzles
were always pointed at the shearers, while the
breeches were the exclusive property of the pas-
toralists. Governments refused to accept unionists
as special constables and to clothe them with
extraordinary class-powers of battery and official-
dom ; but that was no bias. Governments dis-
missed railway servants for expressing sympathy
with the unions, and for declining to act as special
constables, but there was no unfairness in all
this. Governments had Riot Acts read over
unionist gatherings, and helped to find and to for-
ward blacklegs to starve out unionists, but this
was holding the scales with even judgment. In
short, as the D.T. says : “Not one Government of
any Australian colony has taken the smallest
action on one side or the other;” but every
Government—all the Governments—have fallen
flat before their idol, Proputty, and have done
these very things a dozen times over.
In a Sydney Sunday paper, P. J. Gandon
imagines that he has discovered a panacea for
poverty in England, France, Germany and America
through the enforcement of an eight hours’ system
for all forms of labour. The idea is not new and
it is not sound ; because, even if the universal in-
stitution of an eight hours’ system in these
countries provided all who desired to labour with
an opportunity, it would not ensure for them a
fair share of the wealth they produced. The
system, moreover, would not make provision
against the increase of labour’s efficiency caused
by the introduction of new labour-saving machines.
One such invention by increasing the usefulness of
each worker, in a certain industry, 25 per cent,
might throw thousands of men out of work.
Such changes would necessitate continued ab-
breviations of the hours of working. To show,
however, how little this resurrection of Mr. P. J.
Gan don’s is likely to be of universal benefit, it is
merely necessary to point out that in Australia
“ eight hours ” is an institution, yet the propor-
tion of unemployed is little, if at all less, than in
more crowded countries where hours are longer.
Monopoly of opportunity is the blot.
A NEW SCIENCE.
Advertising Agency.
One of the growing tendencies of this progressive
age is to place all matters of public interest under
jhe guidance of specialists—experts who have
made some single manifestation of human activity
a special study, and who have, through their regis-
tration of personal experiences dovetailed into
those of others, elevated apparently commonplace
subjects, if not to the dignity of an art, at least
to that of one of the subordinate sciences. That,
we take it, is the position claimed for Wimble’s
Advertising Bureau by Mr. Arthur Smyth, one of
the business’s proprietors and its managing direc-
tor. Mr. Smyth’s acquaintance with the science
of advertising may be said to have commenced
with his three years’ experience on the Federal
Australian and Melbourne Evening World,
under the leadership of Mortimer Franklyn.
Thence he migrated to the Argus and Australa-
sian, and for a further period of nearly two y ears was
in control of the Sydney agency of those journals,
only leaving to assume the managership of the
Australian Star, of which paper he directed the
business destinies for nine months. In search of
wider experience he then visited America,
and acquired some invaluable information in
connection with the great dailies and weeklies
of the Pacific Slope. Returning to Sydney
he started in the advertising agency busi-
ness under the title of Arthur Smyth & Co.,
in Post-office Chambers, Sydney, date June, 1889.
After a brief but successful existence it was found
necessary for the development and extension of
this business to take in other partners. The
venture was then merged into that of the firm of
Messrs. F. T. Wimble & Co., a company of 30
years standing, and with establishments in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, and London. However, in
December, 1890, Mr Harry Franks, of Wimble &
Co., retired from the advertising agency, leaving
the two remaining partners to carry on the
business under the style of Wimble’s Advertising
Bureau.
This firm, who assert that they have made
advertising a scientific study, are prepared to give
their services to advertisers, absolutely free oj cost,
finding their sources of income in the percentage
paid them by the newspapers, who receive
advertisements in this way, as their payment
is guaranteed and the sums due for insertion
paid over in a lump sum, the newspapers being
thereby saved the trouble and expense of collecting
small sums and entering them up under varied
ledger-headings. In this manner Wimble’s pays to
one Sydney newspaper £l3OO per month in a
lump-sum, thus saving to its clerical department
the handling of from 25 to 30 accounts.
As an inducement to advertisers, Wimble’s
point out that experience has taught them the best
media for advertising, as they know to a fraction
the circulation of every paper and have learned
from experience and close observation those
which give the best results to advertisers. As in
the case of newspapers, Wimble’s make a strong
point of the trouble and expense saved, particu-
larly to large advertisers, by placing adver-
tising business in their hands. For instance, one
of their clients advertises in 273 papers; were
this labour self-performed he would require at
least three or four extra hands. The mere copying
of the ads. to send each paper would entail a vast
amount of work. Now, one copy only is sent to
Wimble’s; there it is type-written by the Reming-
ton, and copies forwarded to each paper office.
Wimble’s also guarantee to large advertisers liberal
discounts, which they could not obtain personally
by canvassing at the various advertising media,
but which Wimble’s are able to obtain through the
magnitude of their transactions, and which it is
their policy to disseminate pro rata among their
advertisers.
Wimble’s Advertising Bureau not only inserts
advertisements, it composes and designs them, in
prose or verse, and supplies illustrations. It also
supplies engraved wood and metal blocks of novel
and artistic design, and furnishes stereos, and
electros, founded on type specially imported from
America, and is prepared to give bold advertise-
ments to all business projects whether by posters,
catalogues, or newspaper advertisements. In
order that this work may be carried on under the
firm’s own supervision, compositors, stereotypers,
wood and steel engravers and wood-letter and
poster block cutters are to be found at work
in the Pitt-street branch of the establishment. In
order to secure for their clientele the results to be
obtained by artistic display and highly-worded
advertisements, Wimble’s have secured the ser-
vices of Nelson P. Whitelocke, a gentleman of
proved artistic and literary ability, who finds in
this establishment a ready outlet for all his capa-
bilities.
Wimble’s have lately introduced and, with
slight improvements, copyrighted, the system of
triplicate checking for advertisements, now in
almost universal use throughout the United
States. By this system the transactions of each
advertiser with each medium of advertisement are
daily noted in an Appearance Book where also
omissions and imperfections are noted with a
view to having themmadegood at the completion of
the contract. Wimble’s also file copies of all news-
papers with which they do business, and furnish
copies when required to their advertisers. In fact,
nothing is omitted which tends to ensure accuracy.
It may be ment'oned that all Wimble’s adver-
tisements, estimates and correspondence are type-
written in order to minimise blunders and save
time on both sides.
Wimble’s have now in the press a Newspaper
Directory of Australasia which will contain 45
pages of illustrations, and whose publication is
only delayed pending the tabulation of the census
returns.
The steady increase in the transactions of the
young firm, now established nearly two years, will
render it necessary that they should build or other-
wise acquire new premises, in order that all their
business may be carried on under one roof. Mean-
time, their office address is : Wimble’s Advertising
Bureau, basement Joint Stock Bank Buildings,
George-street, Sydney.


'£xlenor
'T/jDewritii^
|ate^
o
• ftfW
T^ccdJi/'fcii/t:
Gl/eckii/^
JHLttMXH w/mgs
! V i r"" \
;
'pQ/jble- R|||RqcK
§ lock "?J
Mqi? q o U 7 g D lrecto i*s 13 ff w e-
WIMBLE’S ADVERTISING BUREAU JOINT STOCK BANK BUILDINGS, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


WHY REMAIN DEAF
Professor Harvey s Patent Self-applied, Painless, Elec-
tric Head Battery permanently Cures Deafness, Head
Noises, Discharges, Bilious Head-aches. Advice and
pamphlet free. Apply to Professor Harvey, 145
Collins Street, Melbourne. Magnificent Testimonials.
The popular liquor—Wolfe’s Schnapps.
ò
You really ought to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
ó
Assurance Comp , .
CAPITAL
(Fully Subscribed),
£ 200,000 .
INCORPORATED
PURSUANT
—TO—
Act of Parliament.
mjmm
:■ • ?
£
s'
SPECIAL SECURITY
—FOR —
POLICY HOLDERS.
£25,000
Deposited With
AUSTRALIAN
GOVERNMENTS
HEAD OFFICE:
21, 23, & 25, CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors.
JAMES P. GARY AN, Esq., M.P., Managing Director.
S. H. lIYAM, Esq., J.P.
F. B. FREEHILL, Esq., M.A.
W. J. LYNE, Esq. M.P.
F. COFFEE, Esq.
J. J. POWER, Esq., M.B.
JOHN SEE, Esq., M.P.
Chief Medical Officers:
Dr. M. J. CLUNE, 18 College-street, Sydney; Dr. J. BROOKE MOORE, 167 Liverpool-street, Sydney.
Bankers :
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Secretary :
WM. ALEXR. SMITH, F.S.S.
Victorian Branch: 163 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Resident Secretary : W. N. Dewak.
South Australian Branch: 8 King William-street, Adelaide.
Resident Secretary, P. J. O’Driscoll.
Queensland Branch; 35 Queen-street, Brisbane.
Resident Secretary, Joseph Butler.
West Australian Branch; Hay-street, Perth.
Resident Secretary, Chas. F. Evkston.
Tasmanian Branch: 58 St. John-street, Launceston.
Res'dent Secretary : Adam 0. Bell.
In order to brine* the great benefits of Life Assurance within the reach of all classes, Premiums may be paid to the Company’s District
Collector WEEKLY, MONTHLY or YEARLY.
Applications for Agencies Invited. Liberal Terms to suitable men. Apply personally or by letter to Company’s nearest office.
The Weakness of Mr. King.
A BALLAD OF COREENA.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Major Des Voeux, Inspector Douglas and the
mounted infantry returned from Ooreena this evening,
escorting seven prisoners, who handcuffed to the
horses The officer commanding reports
that he proceeded with thirty men to Ooreena
station and particulars of the rioting were repeated.
When the party of free-labourers had left Ooreena
station for the wool-shed, nine miles distant, they saw a
large party of horsemen also leading horses, which
appeared to them to exceed 150. The latter came down
quickly on the party, using the usual inducements to the
free-labourers to come out. When the party reached the
first fence and gate orders were given for the men to
remain outside, but they refused and entered the private
road. Mr. James Tomson then read the Riot Act. . _. .
The unionists then retired. After some parleying,
Mr. King (manager of Coreena) agreed to let 10 men
inside, and they used their powers of persuasion with
such success that they induced eight of the free labourers
to come out. This so encouraged them that they seemed
more deteanined, and Mr. King, who throughout is
described as acting in a very weak manner, promised
them six sheep for rations if they would go away. They
got the sheep, slaughtered them, and jnade a camp near
the woolshed, intending to interview the Aramac men
next day. The officer in charge, however, considered it
would be impolitic to proceed further and put up his
force and remained at the woolshed until reinforced.
Major Des Vceux’s force reached camp just after daylight,
completely surprising the unionists. . . . The officers
complain' of the inhospitable treatment received at
Coreena. Arriving there after riding all night for the
protection of the station, the manager (Mr. E. 11. King)
let them eat their food in the yard while he sat down
with his overseer at breakfast inside. —Queensland n av
Correspondence in Sydney Daily Press.
One who wishes less to crown with
Fame his brow than win a crust, _
And wherewith to wash it down with —
One who sings because he must.
Not, as when his days were younger,
Flushed with glow of inward fire,
But in view of thirst and hunger
Takes up once again his lyre.
Things have been uneven lately
With the Bard, who had designed
Many measures high and stately
To enchain the public mind.
On the thfeme of Federation
He had thought to stir the soul
Of a young aspiring nation
Looking forward to its goal.
He had pegged away like blazes,
Writing poems by the yard,
Filled with fine Parkesian phrases
And O’Connor-like with lard.
But, alas, alas, for verse ! He
In a boot-trunk has them packed ;
While he waited, “ M. E. Jersey ”
Swamped the market in one act!
While he lingered as one lingers,
Held by fear and urged by haste,
With the sledge between his fingers
Raised to strike the public taste,
She, insp red to sing as only
They can sing who have been bred
In the neighbourhood of Stoneleigh,
Drove his nail home to the head.
But so versatile a person
As the Bard is doth not long
Lack for subjects to write verse on,
Hence he bursts into a song
Of the insult and privation
Borne by braves who sallied forth
To preserve from decimation
The Best Interests of the North.
'.• • • •
In a land once the Creator’s,
But which since His time has passed
Into hands of speculators
Grabbed in sections, rich and vast;
Where the people carry crosses
That are grievous to be borne,
And the syndicates are bosses.
And the shearers are the shorn —
Where the waiting alligator’s
Eyes beside each river shine,
As the leading legislators
Squat around the leading mine,
Where the boodler has his innings,
And the landlord, ill-content,
Fat with many toilers’ winnings,
Cries for rent, and yet more rent;
In the land where Jimmy Tyson
Reigns, and British peer and drone
Come to cast their envious eyes on
All that yet the people own ;
Where the station-master straddles
All that is or is to be,
And his faithful super. “ raddles ”
Many a sheep most gleefully ;
Where the Bishop and the Parson
Of the grace of Heaven preach,
While the nights are red with arson
And the days are fierce with speech ;
In the Kingdom of Abaddon
Where, for nine of every ten
This country seems a sad one,
Rode Des Voeux and all his men.
Grim the aspect of the leader,
Bronzed his face, and set and stern,
For a reason which the reader,
Reading on, may shortly learn :
Grim and pensive were his forces,
Towing captured Unionists
At the saddles of their horses,
Bound by fetters on their wrists.
Many a time, for aught we know to
The reverse, had dread Des Voeux
Caused full many a haughty foe to
Bite the dust —for aught we know
In the gloomy Afghan passes,
Or on burning Afrio sands,
Hewed his way through demon masses,
In their blood imbrued his hands ;
Many a time, when terror’s pallor
Whitened cheeks and chill despair
Gnawed at others’ hearts, his valour
(That’s so far as we’re aware)
Won the day, and when the fearful
Hours of death and carnage mad
Were at end, he still seemed cheerful —
Why, then, was he looking sad ?
And the legion he commanded,
What of them—in fact, what sort ?
Soldiers all, who, ready-handed;
Took their part in war’s wild sport,
Warriors to the heart’s core; strangers
To the name of craven dread,
Who had learned to love the dangers
Of the reckless life they led :
Men with daring plainly stamped on
Every face, who, unafraid
Had at Brisbane or Rockhampton
Calmly gone forth on parade ;
Men, who steeled by thought of duty,
Strong to strive and dare and do,
Oft in sight of Townsville’s beauty
Had sustained the fierce review !
What depressed these heroes warlike,
That they rode with aspect sad.
Not like conquerors ; nay, more like
Men who had been sorely “ had !”
What impressed with care each forehead .
Had their sortie been in vain ?
Had there been no combat horrid ?
Had no gore bedewed the plain ?
Plenty. Lots. O, it was glorious,
One day ’mid all days to shine,
From which now they came victorious,
Back to shrieking Barcaldine !
Never had war’s annals seen a
Brave defeat of dastard foe
Like the rescue of Coreena
By the troops of bold Des Voeux.
Led by “ wicked conspirators—
Parasites that suck the veins
Of the workers —agitators
Seeking but their private gains ”
Round that station had assembled
In their thousands, Unionists,
At whose mien free labour trembled
Holding in their lifted fists
Spears and daggers, guns and waddies
With which straightway to enact
Vengeance on their hapless bodies
Who supported free contract—
Ruffian hordes with faces mocking
At the homestead had appeared
And in language truly shocking
Passed remarks and cursed and jeered.
Played up most immoral capers,
Carrying on in such a way
As the watchful leading papers
Have reported day by day ;
Caused the utmost consternation
Till, with unexampled tact,
Which alone preserved the Station,
Someone read the Riot Act.
Thereupon, almost with meekness,
They withdrew, and Mr. King—
Who throughout had shown great weakness—
Did a further flabby thing :
In a manner so faint-hearted,
That it almost makes one weep,
He allowed them, ere they started,
To take half-a-dozen sheep.
He who should have thought of duty
And the Bosses and the Banks,
And, relentless as Te Kooti,
Faced and fought the Union ranks ;
He from whose swift rage to save them
Naught should have availed that day,
Grew alarmed, it seems, and gave them
Several sheep to go away ! ■
But next dawn brought retribution
By the camp-fires while they slept,
Like a blast of dissolution
Stern Des Vceux upon them swept—
Earth and sky alike were shaken
With the deeds done and things said,
Sheep and unionists were taken,
Both the living and the dead !
Did no joyful celebration
Wait the conquerors when they
To the late beleaguered station
Made victoriously their way?
Was not led forth to the slaughter
For their sake the fatted calf ?
Did not red wine flow as water ?
Were they not desired to quaff ?
Not at all. No well-fed sleekness
Smoked preparing for their feast,
Mr. King’s besetting weakness
Seemed, in fact, to have increased.
With a lack of judgment, painful
To be thought of, he displayed
A.demeanour most disdainful,
Towards the rescuing brigade.
To the men who had that morning,
In the mighty name of Wool,
Given the rabble such a warning,
Mr. King was more than cool.
Warriors, with moustachios waxed,
Wakened in him no regard ;
With a feebleness quite flaccid,
He said, “ Feed’m in the yard.”
They who made the demons scamper
At the flashing of their swords,
For reward got tea and damper
Not describable in words ;
Unprotected from the weather
By the humblest kind of shed,
Officers and men together
Like coarse rouseabouts were fed.
From the yard each hungry trooper,
All his soul possessed with gloom,
Saw the Weak One and his super.
At it in the breakfast-room —
Noted their close application
To choice viands, and the zest
Of their frequent cacchinations
Over this weak, cruel jest.
. • •
Therefore, sad was the returning
From Ooreena, as was theirs
From Corunna’s field of mourning,
Who came back with tears and prayers—
Not that loss of their Commander,
Or a foiled attempt to drub
Haughty foes, had roused their dander
Or their grief—’twas loss of grub !
C. R.
Sydney, May G.
o
o
o
ò


ô
o
o
ò
o
o
In Use 100 Years
THE TOOK MAN'S FRIEND.
DR. ROBERTSMmiTNIENT.
KIN
s
"(KIN
8
; S
S
K i
KIN
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
THIS VALUABLE OINTMENT
(as originally prepared by G. L.
ROBERTS, M.D.) is confidently
recommended as an unfailing
remedy for Wounds of every de-
scription, . Chilblains,Scorbutic
Eruptions,' Burns, Sore and In-
flamed Eyes, Eczema, &c.
Dr. Roberts’ Alterative Pills.
For the 15LOOD and SKIN.
j^ntlN
|^KIN
j^KIN
(^KIN
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
DISEASES.
Very effectual in the cure of that
form of skin disease which shows
itself in painful cracks in the skin
of the hands and in all scaly
diseases. -They-way- be taken at
all times without confinement or
change of diet.
Sold at Is. lid., 2s. 9d., 11s. and
Eeach, by the Proprietors,
Iport, England.
"VVonca.o2:foLl Ouires ESOfecrteci..
SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE.
All sufferers
who use Herr
Rassnaussen ’s
Celebrated Her-
bal Remedies
are entitled to
Herr Rassmus-
sen’s valuable
advice by post
until they are
cured, and may
also send for ad-
vice for their
relatives, entire-
ly free of charge.
A self-addressed
and stamped en-
velope should,
however, always
be sent for the
reply.
The Remedies
are sent any-
where unob-
served, by post,
rail or steamer.
m
mm
mi
■
i>v.'
4
A Valuable
Book will be
sent free on re-
ceipt of a self-
addressed Gd.
stamped en-
velope, which
contains most
valuable advice,
useful hints,
and numerous
receipts.
Herr Rassraus-
sen’sPills all im-
prove the com-
plexion by their
wonderful power
of purifying the
Blood, and al-
ways change a
Sallow and
Freckled Com-
plexion to a most
beautiful and
enchanting one,
proofs of which
will be found in
his book. They
simply are
UNEXCELLED,
UNEQUALLED,
WONDERFUL,
and
WITHOUT A
RIVAL.
J-Pac-ocTSessoa? DEXias 0 !? Xlasaxxmsseu, HJ'.IEE.S.,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist and Expert Specialist in Blood and Nervous Diseases, Professor of Medical Botany,
Author of “The Natural .Doctor,” and honorably mentioned in “ The Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Great Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer and Proprietor
OF THE
-CELEBRATED—
DENMARK
Herbal Remedies.
Which have been proved
to have cured over 50,000
sufferers, from var ous
complaints, principally
sufferers from Private,
Skin, Blood and Nervous
Diseases. This Gold Medal
was presented to Herr
Rassmussen by several of
his Cured Patients, who
had all been permanently
cured by his Celebrated
and Famous Denmark
Herbal Remedies, and we
feel quite pleased to re-
commend them to Suf-
ferers.-
-loAsaTOKENofCRATITUDE i
From NINE of ms PATIENTS £*||||
,jor Having Restored ThemJ
te2£vr»».s&
Discoverer and Proprietor
OF TUB
—CELEBRATED—
DENMARK
Herbal Remedies.
Guaranteed Cures.
Denmark Vitality Pills.
Denmark Lock Cure Pills.
Denmark Female Restorer
Pills.
Denmark Liver and Kid-
ney Pills.
Denmark Hair and Skin
Beautifier.
Each of the above Herbal
Remedies are registered all
over the world. The sum
of £2O will be given to any
person whocan givegenuine
information which will
lead to the conviction of
an imitator.
Testimonials.
Opinions of the Press.
Genuine
It is a well-known fact that Herr Rassmussen, the cele-
brated Danish Herbalist, has performed many great cures
during the past few years, as his numerous testimonials
will prove.—Sydney Bulletin.
Herr Rassmussen. —We have been shown
some excellent testimonials of the great
cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the
celebrated Danish Herbalist. Austra-
lian Star.
Herr Rassmussen has now been estab-
lished in the colonies for 10 years.—
Sunday Times, April 28, 1888.
Herr Rassmussen has become a cele-
brity in the curing of all diseases of the
nervous system. His name has become
a wonder throughout the Southern Hemi-
sphere. He was presented with a Gold
.\ledal for some of his miraculous cures.—
Balmain Leader, May 12, 1888.
Herr Rassmussen. The remarkable
cures which he has effected are pretty
generally known. — Balmain Observer,
April 28, 1888.
We are perpetually receiving letters
from Herr Rassmussen’s cured patients,
requesting us to make known to the
public the wonderful medical skill this
remarkable man possesses, and he has
jiist been presented with a Gold Medal
from several of his cured patients.—
Sydney Weekly News, May 26, 1887.
Herr Rassmussen, the Danish Herba-
list, has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, which he has
received, certifying to a number of im-
portant cures effected by his remedies.- Sydney Evening
News, March 7, 1890.
The Nervous System.
To Herr Rasmussen.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that
y our remedies cured me of a very serious blood disease,
after many doctors had failed. — John Reynolds, Chappel-
street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, the celebrated
Danish Herbalist.—Dear Benefactor,—!
have much pleasure to inform the public
that your remedies cured my wife of an
internal complaint of a very serious
nature, after all the doctors had given
her up.— Archibald Macfarlanb, Eden
Cottage, Barney-street, Armidale.
To Herr Rassmussen, Specialist in
Nervous Diseases.- —Dear Sir, —I hereby
thank you for the great cure your reme-
dies performed on me for a very compli-
cated nervous affection, and I shall always
recommend you to sufferers from Nervous
Debility.— Thomas Mddiman, Merchant
Tailor, King-street, Newtown.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.
—Dear Sir and Benefa dor,—lt gives me
great pleasure to testify to your wonder-
ful skill in the treatment of Disease.
Your remedies cured me of a terrible
complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am
as well as ever. I shall recommend your
remedies to all.-Yours, gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-street, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Specialist in
Nervous Diseases —Dear Sir, —I hereby
certify that I have been under your
skilful treatment for a very obstinate
case of nervous debility, and that yom
remedies cured me, one course of you:
Vitality Pills being sufficient.—D. M'Neill, Hornsby
Junction, N.S.W.
-‘V s. \ N // /
&AUJ YP\\\>
\
\
%
%
n
A
%
%
ó
ò
*
ò
<l#
3.
o
si
r
SS&
REGISTS,
ô
ò
#
V
A Guaranteed
Cure for
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
Australian Verdict-Best Herbal Remedies in Australia.
Herr RASSHUSSEN’S
CELEBRATED HERBAL VITALITY REMEDIES
Eegistered in all the Colonies.
Awarded Gold Medal by Cured Sufferers.
DENMARK VITALITY PILLS
Are a guaranteed cure for Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality,
Despondency, Melancholy and Errors, Barrenness of both
Sexes. Price—23s. 6d. per course; small box, 65.; posted.
DENMARK FEMALE RESTORER PILLS,
Best Remedy in the world for Irregularity, Whites, and cures
all Complaints that cause Barrenness. Price—23s. 6d. per
course ; small box, 65., posted,
DENMARK LOCK CURS PILLS,
A guaranteed cure for all Diseases of the Blood, and will
thoroughly cure all Discharges, 'Soaldings. and Contagious
Bores and Strictures. Purely herbal, Price—23s. 6d. per
course; small box, 65,, posted.
DENMARK LIVER AND KIDNEY PILLS,
Excellent for Costiveness, Indigestion, Wind, and Dyspepsia.
In boxes at Is,, 2s. 6d., and 55.; posted, 6d, extra per box.
DENMARK SKIN AND HAIR BEAUTIFIER,
A guaranteed cure for preventing Dandruff, and the Hair
turning Grey, and eradicates Pimples and Freckles. Pnce-
2s. 6d. per packet; posted, 3s.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Alwavs send Post Office Order or Cash in Eegistered Letter.
Make Post Office Orders or Cheques payable to
‘Hans Rassmussen, Sydney.’ Add Is. for exchange, if Cheques
Send Stamped Addressed Envelope for reply.
Address Letters—HEßß RASSMUSSEN,
Box 208, G.P.0., Sydney.
Universal Opinion —Without their Equal in the World.
; DENMARK
tetfTYP^
4,
%
%
'H
%
»%
I*
\l
%
mi
o
o
ITH-
ó
ò
m
/
'# E '
'RECISTS
o
o
*
A Guaranteed
Cure fo»
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
All HSIt Rassmussen’s Celebrated Herbal Remedies
MAY ALSO BE OBTAINED AT HIS CENTRAL DEPOT
No. 8. Central Arcade, Ceorge Street
(between Liverpool and
Bathurst Streets),
Sydney.
ò
o
ò
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Give the London and Sydney Tea Co. one trial.
They guarantee satisfaction.
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
“ I will GIVE A BOTTLE of my Remedyfor Nothing,
so that sufferers may have an opportunity of testing
the truth of what 1 fearlessly state.”
Thousands of Bottles of this Marvellous Medicine
GIVEN AWAY every Year.
I have made a life-long study of the disease of Fits,
Epilepsy, or Falling Sickness, and when I say Cure, I
do not mean merely to stop them for a time and then
have them return again, I mean a Radical Cure. I
have known my remedy to cure the worst cases. Because
others have failed to cure you is no reason why yon
should continue to suffer. Send at once for my Treatise
and a Free Bottle of medicine. It costs you nothing
for a trial and IT WILL CURE !
Dr. H.G ROOT,2B,Endsleigh Gardens,Euston-rd.,
LONDON. N.W
■d^ssag® /
■Q
%
3
>
%
❖
7
|rivatc
For the Treatment of
Nervous, Rheumatic & Joint Diseases.
112 Hunter St., Sydney
(Second door off Macquarie Street).
HUNT’S BOOK OF BONANZAS.
Just the Book for the Winter Nights !
The Funniest Book in Australia !
By J. x. IBEXJIKr’r,
KNOWN AS
“Farceur” of “The Bulletin,”
“ Flaneur ” of the “ Freeman’s Journal,”
“ Venator ” of the “ Bathurst Sentinel,”
“ Ilderim ” of the “ Federal Australian.”
If you want a good laugh, send for the “Book
of Bonanzas,” which can be had of all Newsagents,
or Post Free for 15 Penny Stamps from the
Publisher.
As the edition is very limited, all who admire
the “ Farceur’s ” writings should send for a copy
of this book, which contains some of the brightest
writings of
The Mark Twain of Australia.
All orders should be addressed—
J. P. WALSHE,
Church Hill, SYDNEY.
P.S. —Newsagents who have not yet sent in
their orders should do so at once.
ò
o
ó
ò
o
ó
ò
Before she started from Paris the gifted
Sarah said the younger members of her family
(how many of ’em are there ?), were to join her in
Australia at the end of the year. We don’t fancy
there will be very much Bernhardt left here by
then.
Pear Bulletin, — Apropos to yours anent
reading the Riot Act over sleeping shrarers, I
have been looking over files of the daily papers of
October, ’BB, and can only find three insignificant
oars, referring to my arrest and trial —without a
committal —on a charge of rioting at Brookong in
August of that year. One of the pars, is headed
“A Curious Arrest.” It teas curious. Fancy
running a man in off the street, jamming him
into the, dock—Supreme Court—and charging him
as above, all inside the space of one minute.
Sudden, wasn’t it? The others indicted on same
charge were allotted three years’ hard labour, and
had a defence prepared. I had no defence ready,
of course, so, had the jury found me guilty, I
would probably have been gaoled for 20 years.
But the papers didn’t howl about it much ; not
they. curious law, good old sup-
press ! Yours’&c., W. W. Head. Wagga, May
13, 1891.
Mr. A. S. Way, of Melbourne University—
the gentleman who translated Homer very
sweetly once upon a time—read a paper, entitled
Echoes from the Lutes of Old France,” before
■Section G of the Royal Society the other day.
In it he quoted Edmund Gosse’s description of
the triolet, as thus :—“Nothing can be more in-
genuously mischievous, more playfully sly, than
this tiny trill of epigrammatic melody, turning so
simply on its own innocent axis.” And then Mr.
Way proceeded to show how he could illustrate
this statement in a few triolets dashed off on the
spur of the moment. Since then he seems to have
gone swelling around with the idea that he is the
inly poetical party south of the Line who can
write triolets. A grave mistake. Just cast your
>.yes over the following ;
Here also are two triolets on Jones the Hangman
a dainty subject:'
There, Mr. Way !
Advise your friends to drink Wolfe’s Schnapps,
A VICTORIAN PRAYER.
“ O Lord ! we’re easy fed,”
They murmured mftkly.
“ Our wants are few,” they said,
“ O Lord, we're easy fed !
Give us our daily bread,
Our hangings weekly !
O Lord, we’re easy fed !”
They murmured meekly'.
HIS VIEWS.
“ H/t/mind no nonsense warps,
I earn ray beer in blood.
I never feel remor(p)se ;
My mind no nonsense warps.
I love to hear the ooipse
Drop with a sick’ning thud !
My mind no nonsense warps,
I earn my beer in blood.”
HIS AMBITION.
“ I’ll not accept a label
That’s less than O.M.G.
Unless it comes by cable
I’ll not accept a label.
I scorn your ‘ Honorable
Within the colony !’
I’ll not accept a label
That’s less than 0.M.G.”


ó
ô
õ
o
ò
o
ó
o
ò
o
o
ò
o
Special Advertisements.
Smoke only
T 1
TONI
The best
3d. CIGARS
EVERY TOBACCONIST KEEPS THEM.
WARREN & STRANG, Sole Agents, Barrack St., Sydney
-4
Support a New Local Industry.
J&.. JT ./3k. 2U S,
COOK 3* AIIO O,
Has much pleasure in announcing' to the public
that he has just introduced a New Local Industry,
having completed all the necessary works, such as
Kilns, Buildings, Machinery, etc., at groat ex-
pense, and having received the Chemicals and
everything necessary for the manufacture of
All Descriptions of Pottery and Sanitary Ware,
SOMAN A MOSAIC TILES,
he is now able to execute orders to any extent.
Goods are ready for inspection at the Works,
Coorparoo, where large Show-rooms are erected ;
also, Samples may be seen and prices quoted at
the Shop, next door to Finney, Isles and Go.,
Queen-street, Brisbane, Queensland.
SAMUEL MACGREGOR & CO.,
STOCK AND STATION AGENTS, ’
SHEEP, ANE) CATTLE SALESMEN,
WOOL AND PRODUCE BROKERS,
Town, Suburban, & Country Land Salesmen.
GENERAL AUCTIONEERS.
188 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
T B GUEST & GO ’S NEW BISCUIT,
“GONG-GONG.
(registered. )
ORNAMENTAL. DELICIOUS, & WHOLESOME.
SPORTING-— Footballs—Cheapest and best variety
the colony. Instdes repaired. Fishing Tackle—Every
scription : Rods, Reels, Lines, Hooks, Sinkers, Floats,
it Nets, Twines, &c. Bricklayers’ and Carpenters
nes. Cricket Material—Great variety: Bats, Balls,
nards, Gloves, Gauntlets, &c. Boxing Gloves—All sizes
id qualities. Tennis Racqu»ts repaired and restrung.
>nd or call for Price-list (gratis). _
HARRY A. HOWES (late George Prentice Tobac-
iriist), the Queensland Sports Depot, Kdward-street,
rishane. Footballs, Fishing, Boxing, Cricket.
ALL THE YEAR ROUND.
&-■ “ BEDE.”
The Original Promoter I
JULY HANDICAP.
ROSEHILL, JULY 18, 1891.
4 000 At 10 each 4,000
ó
N.S 200
10 at 20 each 200
30 at 10 each 300
70 at 5 each: 350
110
Extra
110
Address
“Adam Bede,” c/o Abbott,
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ipATTERSAL L’S.
w I 2ST T B R.
RANDWICK, JUNE 6, 1891.
10,000 at 10.
ò
o
Less 10 per cent.
110 Extra Ones 110
Every 1 chance of 10.
W X W T 33 XX.
RANDWIOK, JUNE 13, 1891.
10,000 at 10.
N.S. .. - 400
cchk
First .. .. 2000
o
Less 10 per cent.
110 Extra Ones 110
Every 1 chance of 10.
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
p.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
Address —“ TATTERSALL,” care of GEOKGB
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Club, SYDNEY, N.S.Wi
ROOKING BACKW A*R DS,
With all due respect to Bellamy’s cleverness and
foresight, he omitted from his great Social Work
the fact that KSNKY’S Commercial Hotel,
BSOKEN HILL, contains Forty (40) Rooms,
and is the Premier Institution of its kind on the
Great Silverfield.
EVERYONE SHOULD READ
“ A Golden Shanty.”
-V?
Hi
m
mmmm
3U Y
HUDSON’S
CHAD
U/\
m.
?=gsm
§jm i
si
%
Ev
*5
igfc- y; -■
. •
“DRINK, PUPPY, DRINK!”
Study from Life. The Water Trough is one of those supplied by the Proprietors of Hudson’s Soap to Storekeepers, with a request that
may be placed on the Pavement during the Summer Months, for Thirsty Dogs.
HUDSON’S EXTRACT OF SOAP reduces the Hours of Labour.
o
oo
ò
o
o
ò
ó
ô
õ
ö
ø
ō
ŏ
o


If your liver troubles you take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The “ Assam ” Blend fragrant and refreshing.
eiohY 4’-’ r-' . LtNGtH 4 to- qeptM 2®.!^
IS the most complete and perfect instrument ever offered at the price.
Seven Octaves. Full Trichord, Iron Frame, Patent Check Action. Braaa
Pin Plate, requiring only the minimum of tuning. The tone
is powerful, clear, brilliant and pure. In very elegant Black and Gold of
Walnut Casea
This Piano is introduced by W H. PALING & CO., Limited, for the
, purpose of meeting a long-felt demand for a good, reliable instrument at an
easy price, and thereby giving to the head of almost even* household an
opportunity of supplying his home with a firstjdass Piano at a price heretofore
| paid for a much inferior instrument £
ò
ô
o
West Australia T
LAND in W.A., and especially at PERTH, the capital city, is increasing in
value daily, and purchasers now will in the future make handsome profits. WE
HAVE for private sale SPLENDID BUILDING sit*ls at PERTH. CITY BLOCKS
from £25 each, and SUBURBAN BLOCKS from £lO each on very easy terms, within
the reach of one and all. ALL GUARANTEED GOOD LEVEL BUILDING LAND
and an absolutely FREE TITLE DEED to every purchaser. Send for plans, etc., to
T. TATE & CO., 278 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Interesting Book with maps and
views of W.A., Is. each. Send stamps.
THK CELEBRATED
EXCEL
ALL OTHERS!!
FIRST PRIZES
J-'ALL
.ae^cmeiTxoiTs
ZBS
Wholesale Depot':
231. CLARENCE-ST
SYDNEY.
MARK
Regd.
By Special Appointment to H.R.H. The PRINCE OF WALES,
Buy Direct
PURE LINENS
AND
Damasl( Table Liner)
FROM
The Oldest Establishment for Linen in the North of Ireland:
SUPERIOR QUALITY.—IMMENSE SAVING.
“ The celebrated Damask Table Linen from the Royal Manufactory , Ardoyne, stands unrivalled
Our Silk and Linen Tea Cloths and Dinner Table Centres are the liohest things yet produced. Openwork and Fancy
Linen Goods in endless variety. Ladies and Gentlemen furnishing or replenishing should write for Price Lists and
Samples. A Parcel 2-lbs. weight caa be sent by Parcel Post for Is. 6d., and for each lb. additional up to 11-lbs.,
9d. per lb. Large Orders forwarded by best and cheapest route.
<f> ART LINENS.—EMBROIDERY CANVAS.—DRESS CAMBRICS.
Telegrams,
Muror, Belfast.
! MURPHY & ORR, Belfast, Ireland.
o
£
õ
o
onodv
To clean tombstones.
To polish knives.
To clean dishes.
To renew oil-cloth.
To scrub floors.
To whiten marble.
To renovate paint.
To wash out sinks.
To remove rust.
To brighten metals.
To scour bath-tubs
To scour kettles.
EVERYBODY USES IT-
Dentists to clean false teeth,
Surgeons to polish their instruments
Confectioners to sconr their pans.
Mechanics to brighten their tools.
Cooks to clean the kitchen sink.
Painters to clean off surfaces.
Engineers to clean parts ofmachlnes.
Ministers to renovate old chapels-
Bextons to clean the tombstones.
Hostlers on brasses and white horses.
Artists to clean their palattes.
Wheelman to clean bicycles.
Housemaids to scrub marble floors.
Chemists to remove some stains.
Carvers to sharpen their knives.
Shrewd ones to scour old straw bats
Soldiers to brighten their arms.
Renovators to clean carpets.
EVERY ONE FINDS A NEW USE,
SOLD BY GBOCEBS. CHEMISTS, AND lEONMONGEBS.
On the Range.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
On Nungar the mists of the morning hung low,
The beettle-browed hills brooded silent and
black,
Not yet warmed to life by the sun’s loving glow,
As through the tall tussocks rode young Charlie
Mao.
What cared he for mists at the dawning of day,
What cared he that over the valley stern
“Jack,”
The Monarch of frost, held his pitiless sway ?
A bold mountaineer, born and bred, was young
Mac.
A galloping son of a galloping sire—
Stillest fence, roughest ground, never took him
aback ;
With his father’s cool judgment, his dash and his
fire,
The pick of Manaro, rode young Charlie Mae.
And the pick of the stable the mare he bestrode—
Arab-grey, built to stay, lithe of limb, deep of
chest,
She seemed to be happy to bear such a load 1
As she toss’d the soft forelock that curl’d on her
crest.
They cross’d Nungar Creek, where its span is bub
short
At its head, where together spring two moun-
tain rills,
When a mob of wild horses sprang up with a
snort—
“ By thunder !” quoth Mac., “there’s the Lord
of the Hills.”
Decoyed from her paddock, a Murray-bred mare
Had fled to the hills with a warrigal band ;
A pretty bay foal had been born to her there,
Whose veins held the very best blood in the
land —
“ The Lord of the Hills,” as the bold mountain
men,
Whose courage and skill he was wont to defy,
Had named him, they yarded him once, but since
then . . „
He’d held to the saying “Once bitten twice shy.
The scrubber, thus suddenly roused from his lair,
Struck straight for the timber with fear in his
heart;
As Charlie rose up in his stirrups, the mare
Sprang forward, no need to tell Empress to
start.
She laid to the chase j ust as soon as she felt
Her rider’s skill’d touch, light, yet firm, on the
rein ;
Stride for stride, lengthened wide, for the green
timber belt,
The fastest half-mile ever done on the plain.
They reached the low sallee before he could wheel
The warrigal mob ; up they dashed with a stir
Of low branches and undergrowth—Charlie could
feel
His mare catch her breath on the side of the spur
That steeply slopes up till it meets the bald cone.
’Twas here on the range that the trouble began,
For a slip on the sidling, a loose rolling stone,
And the chase would be done; but the bay in
the van
And the little grey mare were a surefooted pair.
He looked once around as she crept to his heel,
And the “ swish ” that he gave his long tail in the
air
Seemed to say, “ Here’s a foeman well worthy
my steel.”
They raced to within half a mile of the bluff
That drops to the river, the squadron strung
out—
“I wonder,” quoth Mao., “has the bay had
enough,”
But he was not left very much longer in doubt,
For the Lord of the Hills struck a spur for the
flat
And followed it, leaving his mob, mares and all,
While Empress (brave heart, she could climb like
a cat)
Down the stony descent raced with never a fall.
Once down on the level ’twas galloping-ground,
For a while Charlie thought he might yard the
big bay
At his uncle’s out-station, but no ! He wheeled
round
And down the sharp dip to the Gulf made his way.
Betwixt those twin portals, that, towering high
And backwardly sloping in watchfulness, lift
Their smooth grassy summits towards the far sky,
The course of the clear Murrumbidgee runs
swift;
No time then to seek where thecrossing might be,
It was in at one side and out where you could,
But fear never dwelt in the hearts of those three
Who emerged from the shade of the low muzzle-
wood.
Once more did the Lord of the Hills strike a line
Up the side of the range, and once more he
looked back,
So close were they now he could sec the sun shine
In the bold grey eyes flashing of young Charlie
Mac.
He saw little Empress, stretched out like a hound
On the trail of its quarry, the pick of the pack,
With ne’er-tiring stride, and his heart gave a
bound,
As he saw the lithe stockwhip of young Charlie
Mac.
Showing snaky and black on the neck of the mare,
In three hanging coils, with a turn round the
wrist;
And he heartily wished himself back in his lair
’Mid the tall tussocks beaded with chill morning
mist.
Then he fancied the straight mountain-ashes, the
gums
And the wattles, all mocked him, and whispered,
“You lack
The speed to avert cruel capture, that comes
To the warrigal fancied by young Charlie Mac.,
For he’ll yard you, and rope you, and then you’ll
be stuck
In the crush, while his saddle ig girthed to your
back,
Then out in the open, and there you may buck
Till you break your bold heart, but you’ll never
throw Mao. !”
The Lord of the Hills at the thought felt the sweat
Break over the smooth summer gloss of his hide;
He spurted his utmost to leave her, but yet
The Empress crept up to him, stride upon
stride.
No need to say Charlie was riding her now,
Yet still for all that he had something in hand,
With here a sharp stoop to avoid a low bough,
Or a quick rise and fall, as a tree-trunk they
spanned.
In his terror the Brumby struck down the rough
falls
T’wards Yiack, with fierce disregard for his
neck —
Tis useless, he finds, for the mare overhauls
Him slowly, no timber could keep her in check.
There’s a narrow-beat pathway, that winds to
and fro
Down the deeps of the gully, half hid from the
day,
There’s a turn in the track, where the hop-bushes
grow
And hide the grey granite that crosses the way;
While sharp swerves the path round the boulder’s
base,
And now the last scene in the drama is played :
As the Lord of the Hills, with the mare in full
chase,
Swept t’wards it, but, ere his long stride could
be stayed,
With a gathered momentum that gave not a
chance
Of escape, and a shuddering, sickening shock,
He struck on the granite that barred his advance
And sobbed out his life at the foot of the rock ;
While Charlie pulled off with a twitch on the rein.
And an answering spring from his surefooted
mount,
One might say, unscathed, though a crimsoning
stain
Marked the graze of the granite, but that would
ne’er count
With Charlie, who speedily sprang to the earth
To ease the mare’s burden, his deft-fingered
hand
Unslackened her surcingle, loosened tight girth,
And cleansed with a tussock the spurs’ ruddy
brand.
There he lay by the rock—drooping head, glazing
eye,_
Strong limbs stilled for ever ; no more would he
fear
The tread of a horseman ; no more would he fly
Through the hills with his harem in rapid career.
The pick of the “ Mountain Mob,” bays, greys, or
roans,
He proved by his death that the pace ’tis that
kills,
And a sun-shrunken hide o’er a few wh’tened
bones
Marks the last resting-place of the Lord of the
Hills.
SURCINGLE.
The women stockbrokers in New York
soon went broke.
Kitty O’Shea used to throw things at
Parnell. She threw herself, to begin with.
The new Earl Granville is the same lord
who swallowed two-and-sixpence some time ago,
and the missing coin is still fixed in bis system
and interferes with his digestion a good deal. He
is the only British peer now living who has any
money in him, and if the day of revolution and
confiscation comes in his lifetime he will have that
half-crown to fall back upon, which gives him a
distinct advantage over other noblemen. So far
all the resources of science have failed to tear the
cash out of him, and the only way to extract it
seems to be to let him swallow a bill for two-and-
six and pay it with the money that has taken root
in his system.
ò
ó
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
Payment of Members.
One Person, one Vote.
State Revenue derived directly from the Land.
Complete Secularisation of State Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
The Bulletin denounces—
Religious Interference in Politics.
Foreign Titles.
The Chinese.
Imperial Federation.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
ar.d has become a vast property, because it pos.
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
witli the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity,
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office, The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
j by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
j The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the New Zealand
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based
i Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
| one reader to another.
1 The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
1 The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
i Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial commum
c aliens to be addressed to J. F, Archibald.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
£
5!
EUREKA
m
ELECTRIC
BELTh’
Si
iv
V
/r
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete -with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System . The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
■elves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
▲ Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
end informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fa*
postage, b
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
XT ERVOTJS SUFFERERS, from secret or
other causes, consult PROFESSOR
MUMEORD. You will not regret it, but con-
sider it a blessing you saw this notice. 21 Bourke-
st. East, near White Hart Hotel, Melbourne.
WICKHAM HOUSE
HYDROPATHIC ESTABLISHMENT,
BRISBANE.
Resident Consulting Physician:
Dr. J. BINNS SOUTHAM.
A Home for the Invalid seeking rest and change.
The Food Supply of the Best Quality, suitably prepared.
Further particulars and prospectuses, apply to
Mr. HARRY ROOT, Manager.
!KC. "WXSTJ & CO.,
PUBLISHERS OF THE
“New South Wales Post Office Directory,”
“Victoria Post Office Directory,”
“New Zealand Post uffioe Directory,”
“Queensland Official Directory,”
“Tasmania Post Office Directory.”
826 Flinders Lane W,, MELBOURNE ; 27 Victoria Cham,
bers, Casllereagh Street, SYDNEY; Power’s Buildings,
Queen Street, BRISBANE ; Princes St., DUNEDIN, N.Z.
"Throw Physic
to th«
S O,
02
TRY NATURE’S OWN REMEDY,
ELECTRICITY.
PROFESSOR,
ALLEN’S
ò
o
ó
. - MINIATURE
Galvanic Battery
Is acknowledged by Eminent Physicians, and by
thousands of sufferers to be a positive Remedy for
nearly all the ailments mankind is heir to, The effl-
eacy of this Wonderful Invention as a curative agent
is certainly The Crowning Medical and Scien-
tific Triumph of the 19th Century.'
This BATTERY is not larger than a half-crown
piece, and is worn on the chest, next the skin, suspen-
ded by a silk cord around the neck. The several
metals of which it is composed are so arranged that the
natural humidity of the skin is sufficient to set the chem-
icals in the amalgamated metals in motion, generating
ft constant but gentle flow of Electricity which passes
from the Battery into the system, purifying the Blood,
Strengthening tile Nerves,JJßrain and Muscles, infusing
fresh vigor into the Debilitated Constitution, Stimu-
lating the Vital Organs to their proper action and en-
abling nature to throw off numerous diseases.
The Battery will cure the following ailments: — ,
Headache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Dicers,
and Tumors, Nervous Debility; Impotence,'Liver Com*
plaints, Fever and Ague, Disease of the Kidneys and
Urinal Organs, Bronchitus, Asthma, Diphtheria, Fits,
Constipation, Piles, Heart Disease, Paralysis, Disease
of the. Lungs and Throat, Skin Disorders, and almost
every form of Aches and Pains.
The Battery has a soothing effect upon children
while teething. Illustrated Circular sent free, giving
full particulars and directions for use.
Price FIVES SHILLINGS
By Post to any address, or supplied by all Chemist*
snd Storekeepers. H. DAVY & Co , Agents, 264
Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
BURROUGHES & WATTS,
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS.
*#* Every description in Stock.
Large Assortment of Lawn Tennis Goods.
Our JOs. 6d. Dane Handle Cricket Bats
a speciality.
Lacrosse, Football, and Materials for other
Gaines always in Stock.
BUEROUGHES & WATTS,
8 Bond street, Sydney
ARTHUR N. WALCOT,
CONVEYANCER, Ate.
Loans on Mortgage of Freehold and Leasehold
Estates. International Patents.
Australasian Trade Marks and Copyrights.
The 'Sydney, Country and Intercolonial Law Agency.
OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND CHAMBERS, BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY,
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
ISM
A>.
PATENT
PILLS
&
*
sufferer is earnestly invited t 0 one
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations,_ &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring' about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills hare the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
Stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcijam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only and sold wholesale and retail by the pro-
prietor, Thomas Beech&m, Chemist, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d. each. —Sold by
all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
ô
I
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:-
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Jtheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spin-al Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Lives', Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Ats'ophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY r BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
yeur money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, eto., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action ot
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some pf our olients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor . . Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communicaUons to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
GOLDEN S H A N T Y.
Price One Shilling.
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. 6d., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
Business Announcements.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches ! _
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rates which can be ascertained on
application.
N. F. GIBLIN, Manager.
CT” A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mr -m-
-factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £aP“’ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
I\2 ANHOOD.
H EA L TH . A' 7 K ENG TH AND ALGOR •’ LIES TOR ED
In I-'our. Weeks by (he use of
o? RI.CGRID'S
iS SE»* cE V utf
The only Infallible Remedy fan ferrous or Sexual Debility.
Used for a quarter of a centra-\ with unparalleled
«nd unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. RicorcVs Essence of Life restores manhood to the most
shattered and debilitated constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements of (he human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
In cases of 125., or four quantities in one for 365, Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed envelope .
Agents for Australasia—Perry & Co., 73 Gertrude Street
Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Agents forN.S. Wales— W. H. Soul&Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
'E beg to draw the attention of the Public
to our choice and well-selected Stock of
m
/it
&
I
me
wn
33 £3P3P 13 X-* BROTHERS,
Wholesale and Retail Tobacconists,
520 and 496 George Street, Sydney
Tins Trade Supplied.)
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
, SYDNEY
IMPORTERS OF AULTHE
NEWESTSHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
AUCH'S
THE BEST
IN THE WQRL&
pUCH
€ 5
INC
*7,
2ST
PO
3m*
M»NUFACTO«EOJBy .A lyJ
|rf tJjMCS .CMAmo/t SarLovrS* A
Odd h\j SStfrtAer/irrv
ac
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattemll's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
London Fashions,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
Trade Supplied Wholesale at a Great Advantage.
DOUBLE PRESSED FACING BRICKS.
rpHE LAND CO. op AUSTRALASIA, Ltd., is prepared
to accept orders for an unlimited quantity of Ordi-
nary and Plastic Building Bricks, Sewer Bricks, and
Double-pressed White, Light Brown, Dark Brown and
Golden Brown Facing Bricks. Architects and Builders
who favour us with orders for Double-pressed Bricks need
not fear delay, as we keep a large stock. Other Brick-
makers supplied. A. H. COLLINGS, Works Manager
Gore Hill, North Shore.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 MARKET STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCO A.
Medical.
SPECIAL
MEDICAL NOTICE.
In all Long-Standing and Chronic Com-
plicated Cases of Diseases
CONSULT
| MIE E. KmELMANN]
OF
172 & 174 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE.
The Only Naturally Qualified Consulting Herbalist
of the present Century, and
WRo Has Cured
More Oases of CHRONIC DISEASE than any
Ten Medical Men in Australia.
t?T- ALL CONSULTATIONS FREE.
PISS—!
;
Notice.— lf preferred, a signed agreement given, which
provides that no cost is incurred in the event of a cure
not being effected.
Sufferers can be treated equally well at any distance and
in any part of the world. Write fully a description of case
and symptoms, and mention this paper.
SWORN CERTIFICATE. —One of Thousands more.
Noble-street, Newton, Geelong,
10th December, 1888.
To H. F. Kdgblmann, Esq.
Dear Sir, —This is to certify that I, Patrick Keenan, was
taken ill about three years ago with a severe cold, which
turned into Bronchitis and became chronic. I consulted
more than one doctor, and during that time took a great
quantity cf medicine without it doing me the slightest,
good, but I became worse every day, wasting away until
I became a perfect skeleton. Abeut February last I began
to spit up blood, and what with the cough and severe
pains in my left lung, and the quantity of bad matter I
was expectorating every day, I became very much alarmed.
Hearing of your professional skill I consulted you, and
you told me you could cure me for a given sum. I agreed
and went under your treatment in March last. At the
end of three mouths I was taken bad one morning, and
vomited about two pints of bleod, matter and stringy
phlegm. From that time I commenced to improve, and
was«gaining in weight every day. About a month ago the
blood ceased coming, the cough disappeared, and the
lung healed completely, and thank God and your pro-
fessional skill, I am as well as ever.
P. KEENAN.
Declared and subscribed before me, one of Her Ma jesty’s
Justices of the Peace, for the Southern Bailiwick, in the
County of Grant, this 10th day of December, 1888.
Pkt*r Smythe, J.P.
Dr. westcottvs amenokrikea
PILLS for Ladies, when taken for a few
days before, quickly correct all irregularities
from whatever cause arising ; 2s. 9d. and 4s. fid.,
by post 3s. and 3s. W. H. SOUL and CO., 190
Pitt -street, Sydney, Agents.
NOTICK.— W. BUSHELL is not authorised
to represent The Bulletin in any way.


2v£
S O C I IB T -Z*.
HEAD OFFICE: &~7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
SKS'® ACTUARY RICHARD TEEOE, KEA.
SECRETARY 0 * •••• • D. GARMENT, F.F.A., F.I.A.
o«.MUAK» ROBERT B. CAMERON.
ASSURE YOUR LIFE IN
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY- .
THE OLDEST. LARGEST, WEALTHIEST, AND MOST PROSPEROUS AUSTRALASIAN LIFE OFFICE.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY IS A PURELY MUTUAL INSTITUTION, governed by
the Policy-holders, local to Australia.
ITS FUNDS, NOW OVER NINE MILLIONS STERLING-, ARE INVESTED IN THE AUSTRALASIAN COLONIES,
under the direction of a BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN EACH CAPITAL CITY.
jKTotue IBBTes/km-o slxsl*3L -A-dcaLress, lbeoa<use
IT IS THE ONLY AUSTRALASIAN LIEE OEEIOE WHICH DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
The Sanatorium of Queensland!
BLUE MOUNTAIN HOTEL,
HABLAXTON, TOOWOOMBA.
THE above magnificent Hotel, NOW OPEN,
situated on the S. and W. Railway, 90 miles
from Brisbane, 3000 ft. above sea-level, offers to
those suffering from_ the enervating influences of
the Australian colonies, most beneficial and health-
restoring changes.
Visitors met at Harlaxton platform on receipt
of Telegram. Bridal Suites furnished in a most
recherche manner. Wedding Parties and Tourists
—Speciality.
J. HOLMES ... Proprietor.
"BIPTH TRAP'S Salomon’s Save Cure
rd.bi.ai Viern.iSflß3+ SPEEDILY REMOVES :
Pimples, Bleakheads, Red Nose, Oily Skin, Red Skin and all
Cutaneous Eruptions, etc. Herr H. Salomon, expert
specialist, treats with great skill all Cutaneous Diseases,
and guarantees a quick and permanent cure. Persons
desiring treatment can, by forwarding a full description
of their case and £2, receive by return of post, the
medicines required. NERVOUS DEBILITY successfully
treated. Price, £1 per course, medicines sent unobserved.
Address: —HEßß H. SALOMON, Post Office, Auckland,
New Zealand.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD ft CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
When DOCTORS fail to relieve or Cure you Consult
Personally or by Letter
PROFESSOR G. W. GIBSON,
Medical Herbalist,
137 GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Write for Pamphlet, startling disclosures, Free on receipt
of 2d. postage'stamp.
BOLLINGERS CHAMPAGNE.
HDZR/IT EXTRA Q ( TJ_A.X J ITXr.
SOLE AGENTS von NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
SOB.IN’B BRANDY,
In Bulk or Case, Guaranteed the pure product of the Cognac Grape,
IS THE BEST.
Otrto Ban-der «Sc Co., 336 lESZesjtx-fc-st:., ,
Sole Wholesale Agents.
%
i
1
m
I
I i
s.
sZZ
YORK S T -WYNYARD -SQUARE
♦I- SEND FOR CATALOGUE
ows
CATION,
m
&
m
I f
*\C A^OLO
EVERYWHERE'! \
;
ò
Don’t Wear Clothing
UNLESS IT IS
&
$
PURE,
HEALTHY,
and
COMFORTABLE.
Sr. m
SANITARY WOOLLEN CLOTHING is perfect in these
respects. It may now be had at all High-class Drapery
Establishments, since the London Jaeger Co. have
opened an Australian Branch, 9 Wynyard-st,, Sydney.
United Service Club Hotel,
King William Street,
ADELAIDE.
Most Popular Commercial and Family Hold,
Sample Rooms a Speciality.
m~' CLOSE TO ALL PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
R. PHILLIPS ... Proprietress
llautlugtou Mill,
■ : «
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
* c, j <&c. f discs.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDRTBY, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
mm
Rock Sir callers.
Westinghonse Engines.
FO
8
• •
HinWl Y NUTRITJVF
May Bt OBTAINED IN LABELLED HNS UH BACKETS THRIJDHHUUrTHF f.OIONY.
W/lUI
JUL
NA
HAM
AMPA
Sole Agents:
HOWELL & JOSKE,
Wine and Spirit Merchants,
433 Bourke Sired, Salisliitrv Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
N
OW READY. “A GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price, Is. All Agents and Booksellers.
DRjKki
J. E. Sailer & Go
IMPORTERS OF
(*as fittings,
LUMBERS & GAS FITTERS' MATERIALS.
FLETCHER’S GAS COOKING STOVES
Of Various Patterns.
119 Bathurst St., Sydney.
