

mm
$
o
nk
w
m
i
ft
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY/ PURE THEREFORE BEST.
A ITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
the best in the market
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CAUSES IN SYDNEY
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 Cteorge-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. GK WATKINS ; & CO., 107 Kent Street, „ Sidney,
• N.. • f- FOR " '' f
imping and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining 1 Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDEES’ & GEUEEAL IEOUMOITGEB Y.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of ilVEAXaT.
READ BROS.
<£
O
'At
O
2.
hi
a
o
**
o
&
AIS
Dog’s Head
ALE & STOUT.
JULES RENARD & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
'rx.
- < i
Jj
Rjg
fO
o A
fHI
rOiS
o*
W
dS^>>4»—. a
Sife^3MS
m
SSSS
“■"ftiiii i n ~m^=s3
rmasß o*®^
s' i wifia nuJc
The
Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FEEBH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
includin'!
N.Z., the Home o' Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
other’s resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will deceive Special Attention.
Him WHISKY.
JOHN WALKER, 24 BOISTD
ALLSOFF'S ALE.
STREET, SYXSWBY.
J. o. HOWARD.
± New soutla Wales for Messrs. Clayton Shuttleworfch.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and wateif-heater.
m
m
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes;. Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. it -'
r, & c. Howard, 280
i
Full Catalogues of
Fltt
;ines, Agricultural Implemen
street.
ts and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 12—-No. 666.]
November 19, 1:892.


“ TALES or the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING-.
'
n
MB*
r-: ■ d
oriel
the
E!as( te
truss has
n d
of
n D r ’ ngs
''S3?
v.'i ! Retain
_ture or gi'. r o Kolief
iPierce's Slagsietsc
This J Celebrated
radically cutoS lb dis-
eases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
_r can be worn with ease and comfort
IV and Boy. Perfect fitting Twssses sent by mail.
If you want the BlSa'A’, send for Pamphlet HO. I.
A.ia'f-f.sKtVGtiSTIC ELASTIC! ThUGil CO .Gan Francisco Cal,
,C’r l5. SSonl & €hr>.. TlfiO 9*l (ft St.,
Sydney, oi» KSSlletit Bros.,Brisbane, Agents
sd
3/6
Q VKfT A Tj NOTICE. —Th c Sv n x r.v'Tl ut.t.etix
t ) t '>’n.?.:>*.-'!tinn FdiUon Publishers, ]’ITZ
0 ERA LI) JSHOS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advr.n oh Six Shillings and Sixpence per rjnar-
icr, ci- One Pound per annum.
T hr m-’j t.ktix will be on Sale every Friday at
(lie Oilier, George Street; Launceston, or from the
Runners in (be street.
MALTO- PREP A 1 HAT 10 NS T
SSSfII.TV. A CWe for
I N FLUEMZA, 4 i> /Rll , r
NERVOUSNESS, ETC. W I IN CL .
Wholesale Agents:
LANGE <Sc THONEMAN,
3M.E A li Or 1? X K.
. CATALOGUES FREE -
to any address in Australasia. Send for Catalogue
before purchasing Guns, Rifles, or Revolvers
I elsewhere; best and cheapest guns in Austra’a-Gc ■
I English prices. All goods carriage paid to any
] address in anv eltho Colonies.
Address—THE IIIIITJSK GT'X Co
St QUEEN S'iT.r.KT, XmiOlTKl'
Or.RIOGE’S
Foes
for INFANTS add INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
wo have examined.” — Chas. H. Piks.sk,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Win. Johnstone
Pn.D., i'.C.S., See., Public Analysts.
DR. BILGE'S royal food mills
LONDON, ENGLAND.
if
Rv I
m
D 3 LI3SA \
and PHILLIPS, i W I
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CUBES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
JT. lE* IHS 3FS. 3F2. IES,
Successor to Erou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
MARVELLOUS
2=l. E 3 lAdi; jE3 !I3 IE 252 J 3,
Cairo CANCER, Amemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Dipli
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia. Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagions and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTH AC ME, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are D;sp ns d by COUNT MATTEi's
Authorised Agent.
Address- The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 51 Ehubeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DF, COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far * sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of till Dealers and of the Manufacturers — ]
J. &E. ATKINSON, |
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
ji Trade Mark- “White Rose” on “Golden /
Lyre,” with Address in full. jSA
BETTES THAN SOLS
DR. TYSON SANATORIUM,
rationts Roc;
/ -
ICILDA.
for the Treatment of
8 I v 3
NNEss
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures guaranteed, No pain, discomfort or restriction
1 rivate apartments and attendants if desired Dr
Tyson’s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case and is the Or.'y remedy which can be
taken at home v/:th cevi ainty ofsnccesa. All
bus ness strictly confidential For terms, etc.,call on
oraddrest—H. E. PEATE, Secy., Cromwell Build-
ings, Cor. Eourkc &. llizr.bcth Sts., Melbourne,
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used
For Consumption use
fQlJt'jAHk 5q NS
,pih
Its
\a
v
t-
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYP.TE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory ;
Cootamnndra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
J
•fl’ K A
iJ
S 1 ’
NE VE R TR A VEL WITHOUT IT.
wanted in every house.
£
Wi# /
Z f>‘ECTUAIXY DESTROYS
AU NOXIOUS INSECTS,
FLEAS.FU £S BEETLES MOSQUITOES,
COCKROACHES*'**' AND IS
AT THE SAMETIME QUITE
HARMLESS JO BIRDS DOGS.
FOWLS OR OTH ER
ANIMALS
(f
fsd
rlNT.MS
UPWARDS
•£WJ>T$r
anu ilORLKCtF.ERS
rVMO.CLCr.lt :1
fs
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations,
i
: ■-
9 C
Js Always fH&
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlie Brighton, of KTew Soutli Wales.
):(
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
s. !ESZHji3Md3XrST B IEm .... Jt-’rojprieti’esa,
CROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs,
d-T-5 A T —l" a i\/r>Q
PREMIER BRAND ® BOOTS & SHOES,
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
f^Vo,^u Wltl ! th , e P ublic ’ they having completely established their claim to the title of
smnmwT quality and low l )rice - Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECI 10 THE WEARER—there is neither, duty nor raiddlcmm’s profit to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLES \ 1 ] PRICE Carriage Paid
Try Tb,em.
DEPOTS 320 George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“TALES OF the CONVICT SYSTEM.
Box 1031, G.P.O. Telephone 972.
W. M A MM ATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods and Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS ; “
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY,
Also at Eoadon, Melbourne and .Edinburgh.
SPOONS & FORKS.
. M. & Sons have a magnificent selection of
their own manufactured goods always on
view at their Show-rooms, suitable for
SPORTS, PRESENTATIONS,
CLUB, SHIP,
HOTEL and FAMILY USE,
TABLE CUTLERY.
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods and Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS :
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
(Also at London, Sydney and .Edinburgh.


Shipping.
T l' vG L AND VIA AMERICA
|f] IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL mail express service.
. Irlintr alike the heat of the Red Sea and
Avo the cold of Cape Horn.
TinV STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
UNI0 1 ’ (Limited),
In conjunction with
nrt'ANlC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
U FRANCISCO.
rr] e steainers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
d Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
dsco, as under:- ■ -
are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares; Sydney Or Auckland to Eng-
SALOON £(l3 and £6O.
Combination Ticket, =£s2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For lime cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
/vOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
-0 TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
France,
Passengers hooked (o ' KURRACHEE. BOMBAY.
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried oa by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.a., Built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: ,
II ■ I, , , „ , Leave Mel-
Steamers, i Commander. Leave Sydney bourne
Armand Behic A. Poydenot November 27 November 31
A'istralien .. IG. Didier .. December 27 December 31
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
UnsrllSll interpniteis meet
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.— Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
MELBOURNE,
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
The Premier Beverage.
We Drink Nothing 1 Else.
TT is a drink that will fill a long felt want,' It will ex-
x hilarate and not intoxicate. While it is delicious to the
taste, it has rare medicinal qua'ities. It is guaranteed to
be free from all impurities, being prepared from the pure
extracts of fruit and herbs. Royal Club Nectar and good
soda water is equal to the finest champagne. Royal Civil)
Nectar, pure or mixed with water, is very delicious. It is
the best Summer drink err introduced. It greatly im-
proves the flavor of any kind of spirits. Everyone likes
it. No hotelkeeper should he without it. Price 455. per
case.
LUCAS rOIEI-O®-,
AGENTS,
5 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted.
BOOKS ! BOOKS ! BOOKS !
Kought and Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
_l_ Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
. MARSHALLS
TONIC NERVINE
Sfei.
n
iiilpiiiiiip
ilium in
GIVES NERVE POWEr||
cßomo
m
IMPROVES DICES I lON
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PRICE Is
lu Stamps,.
V'
Crcx
M.A., M.B,
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
Dr. Kelly's refutation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to Intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, to be appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows: —That the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission ; for if there Is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate with his fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
Am I subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish- Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Peeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Feeling During the Day, Pains in the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Fits,
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small pamphlet but a
LARGE BOOK CONTAINING MANY PAGESof PRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of DEBILITY. This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
for £1 Is. Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, &0., &c., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
Dr. W. H. Kelly, who is a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free'of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
Monday ,
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday ..
Saturday..
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m,
.. 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
address— x>M. w. m. KELLY,
112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
0.-DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
as
SlMPl® 31
s-SEST I
@VlNS
dfsdfs
dgf
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
%
HOME
4
<6
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
oftne Convict rstem.”
Medical.
Assisted by Dr. EL MS LIB,'
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square^
SYDNEY;
2E=».Oi SO3C 920;
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician o!
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
o£ N.S.VV. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of DISEASES. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit ±'2oo. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot he removed With the
proper remedies ; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful ana successifitl physician in N.S.VV. in
his particular speciality.
Examination and Ad rice Free to ait.
Office Honrs : 10 to VI a.m. ; 2to 4 and
7 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charg'es so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of WEAKNESS,
for his many years of practice with disease enables him
to remove all traces of it, and to return the victims to
full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.8.-TWENT'Y SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure.
In all cases of
LIVER AND KIDNEY OO.VIPL 'INTS consult Dr-
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS. 55., or 21s. for five
boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN “ PRIVATE ” PILLS, for Contagious
Sores and Blood Diseases, 55., or 21s. for five boxes.
Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. —“ FEMALE ” PILLS. 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. —ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper.
Relief from Cough in 10 Minutes •
/
a
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, COUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, &c.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE,
Immediately it is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.R. Office, BelM, On. Per-
wcmaqh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.—July, 1891,
Sold by all Chemists at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents:— Elliott Bros., S. HobtsuNG & Go.,
a d Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Coonamhle Independent.
A LIVE RADICAL NEWSPAPER
—AND—
COOB lII* ■t: 01 Ji TKV ABVKKTISKK,
CON MOOT av.d HUGH MACDONALD .. Proprietors,
Coonamblb, Castlereagii Rivf.e.
ri
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
witMii Forty <4=o) Miles of Sydney on. Western Railway Line.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Bights,
U 1 * * BEADY FOB, JZ3SrSFEOG?IQ3Sr AgTP^SjBI.EOTIOJsr.
r COACHES BEN TWICE DAILY—PENRITH TO MULGOA. “«
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Directoi, Mulgoa, C^ Ss 133 Pitt street, Sydney,


A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
advt
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia — -J.*. J. TVT illi sxzxi, 297 GEOIIGE STREET,
.^le
m'i
lllll^lWiElD
m
■ vli
■ /
llillfiAPE MABii
Cs>-ia.i.zx3a.ess
3E33C'fcX*S!L J fS'fcOT’JS.-fc
FOSTER'S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
A BSD Til Tl 3 IVY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED
AGENTS:
Balcliin, Johnston & Co.
GYDNEY,
fl. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam 3EJ ngines, 3=3 o 11. ex* s, O- n, ss El nginee,
SHAFTINQ, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
AST Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery yon may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
The only Remedy for Indigestion
*3
s 0
L^T£
*(jre
gestiow
for
ND
Price : 3s. OcL per Bottle.
Takie no Substitute
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
LADIES.— Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fix them up equal to new.
Orsuigr Sz
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER ROOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc.. Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 &EORGE STREET, SYDKTEY.
leaverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
TkR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
XJ JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
INSTANTANEOUS
HAND
m- SEND FOB ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
m
m
mm
M
r :
xsr*
mm
'm*S&
iwy
m
an hWM¥w
iwWVVfW
P£;
PHi
a ■:
sWI
SM
MONTHLY CIRCULAR POSTND ON APPLICATION.
BAKER AND R OUSE,
Photographic Stock Importers,
375 GEESOIO-GKES STHBET, (mxt A.J.s.
—AND AT— ' h "
250 GOLDINS STREET ... ... ... MELBOURNE,
09 BUNDLE STREET ... ... ADELAIDE.
40 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
Wild. .A.-dS-fcra-liEs.! ‘Wilc3. Q-ueeaslEind.!
Lectures on “Wild, Australia” and “Wild Queensland"
—BY
A. 3VE ISIS S T O 3M.
ILLUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer, called the “Terrible Rite.”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia,
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia—Hunting, Righting,
Songs, Dances, Gorrobborees and “ Boorool ” (Bora) ceremonies.
£3T The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
Will (Appear in (Brisbane, Sydney, (Melbourne, Adelaide, (Tasmania, and gl
3ZKT ZZ»E:iOE33M:I33E33EI..^—BRISBANE OPERA HOUSE, DECEMBER 5
ON THE WAY TQ CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD!
Tlio Lecturer, Mr. A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr, MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the moat beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAYWELL & CO.
OE POT-
MARVEL
TOB AC C O
- e ° ptORCE
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOWJT^SMOKII
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
“ THE BULLETIN.”
e Column ...
;erly Contracts
Yearly ~
Year ~
p-aph Advertisements ... ... ... ms. ,jc
ixtra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
Gs. per inch per insertion, nett
10 per cent, discount.
20 ~
25
~ ~ ~ _
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
rl vfuiHP
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
i3T MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted sevei’al times DAILY in tlie Suilclingf.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES,
' V, “ V
i.,
if
« *U 1 -A
mm.
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and mi s fc I, to
lliard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and at
sitors *3T Tariff , 10s. 6d. per day. Special Rates for Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - -
W. W. AIKEN. Manager (18 years in the establisn


The Bulletin
Vol. 12—No. 666.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19. 15192.
Price, 6d.
A FALSE ALARM.
B ROTHER JONATHAN (to N.S W. Freetrade Party): “Look s-here, my friend, jest you keep yer coffin on. It isn’t the last trump you hear, not by a darned sight.
The brayin' of that there doukey, and his kickin’ agin that there wall doesn’t mean that it’s comin’ down right away.”


The Bulletin
<T 'Ji3 National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
7'FILMS TO SI'HSr/tJBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £t 0 0
Half-yearly U 12 G
Quarterly... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with pout aye added where, required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
bote, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our curriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us ■
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 2000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postaye.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Xmas Edition.
—OF—
“THE BULLETIN,”
To be Published 15th December, 1892,
WILL CONTAIN MORE THAN DOUBLE THE
USUAL NUMBER OF PAGES.
A Beautifully-Coloured Humorous Double-page Supple-
ment by PHIL. MAY,
“MEASURINGJTHE BABY."
Original Stories in Prose and Verse specially pro-
vided for Tub Bulletin by Leading Writers in Aus-
tralasia, among whom may be mentioned the late
Barcroft Boake and Messrs. V. J. Daley, Edmund
Fisher, “The Banjo,” E. Favenc, “Price Waning,”
Henry Lawson, E. Dyson, “The Dipsomaniac,” “Ah
Chee,” W. L’Estrange, etc.
Profusely Illustrated by Livingston Hopkins, Geo.
R. Ashton, F. Mahoney, Percy Spence, etc. Despite
the great cost, the whole of the eontributions-artistio
and literary will be genuinely original, and not
borrowed from English or foreign publications.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 1892.
The Looming Railway-Grab.
The eye of the monopolist dwells with
greedy glare upon the State railways of the
Australasias. From time to time the voice
of the grabber makes itself heard in the land
with a hungry yelp. Wherever watchdogs
are few and shepherds unfaithful, bold and
determined attempts have been made to seize
the prey. In Western Australia and in
Queensland these assaults have been con-
ducted with insolent effrontery. The mono-
polists of the capitalistic packs have not, in
relation to these provinces, considered it
necessary to disguise % their predatory nature.
They openly disclose their determination to
be absolute owners of the railways and of
colossal areas of the richest of the world’s
mineral lands, and of as much other territory
as they can pounce upon besides. Their
scheme, in these instances, is to receive pay-
ment in the shape of vast tracts of land, for
providing railways, and then to be still pro-
prietors of the railways in addition to the
land. This, as The Bulletin has often
pointed out, is just as though a man offered
the owner of an estate to run through it an
irrigation channel worth £lO,OOO on condi-
tion of receiving £20,000 worth of land—
and the channel. If the original owner
of the estate thereafter wished to have
water from the channel he could have
by paying for it. This scheme is,
however, feasible only where there still
exist great unbroken tracts of unalienated
land of great prospective value, and where
the population is so small or so scattered that
the Legislatures can easily be captured and
converted into sub-syndicates. In the small
and comparatively closely populated province
of Victoria the land-grant principle is nearly
impracticable, more especially as the most
important routes are already provided with
trunk railways. To a less extent the same
impediments exist in New South Wales,
especially as regards its Central and Eastern
divisions. A modified system of grab has
consequently to be adopted. The plan is to
buy the existing railways and use their
possession as an instrument for further
acquisitions.
• * *
Feelers have been put forth from time to
lime with the view of testing the temper of
the public. There has never been any diffi-
culty in finding a tentacle. The State rail-
ways of New South Wales have cost over
thirty-three millions sterling, and when a
transaction involving the handling of sums
of such magnitude is in progress, there are
always handsome pickings lying round. The
operation is generally commenced through
the press. This is a process much in favour,
Tour grabber relishes nothing better than
making every stage of his enterprise pay its
way. if a speculator with his eye on the
ultimate acquisition of the tramways or the
railways can pave the way by obtaining con-
trol of a widely-circulating daily newspaper,
and get a good return for his investment at
the same time, he regards himself, with good
grounds, as a mighty smart fellow. No
stock in the Sydney Morning Herald is
for sale, but it is unnecessary in any case to
buy it up, because it never fails, under any
circumstances, to favour “ private enter-
prises” on a scale sufficiently large to be
“respectable.” The Herald is in favour
of flogging Jack Sheppard or Claude
Duval ; it had but little sympathy for the
bank-looters; but it warmly approves the
land-grant grab in Queensland and Western
Australia, and has a sort of enthusiasm for
the “occupation” of Egypt, the “annexa-
tion" of Burmah, and the “retention” of
Uganda. But there are other papers— most
of them originally started as Liberal and
Protectionist journals—now more or less con-
trolled or influenced by tram-grab syndicators,
through judicious purchases of depreciated
shares ; and there are yet others which can
be easily secured. Thus the daily organs of
public opinion are pretty well attended to,
as a commencement. It was soon after
certain of the proprietors of a Sydney
daily came round to a “ reasonable view ”
of private enterprise in relation to public
tramways, that Parkes began, as Premier,
to drop hints about selling the railways; and
since the influence of the Star has been
secured, Lyne, as Minister for Works, em-
boldened, no doubt, by the praise showered
by London Times on his individualistic
declarations, has ventured upon publicly
suggesting that the Government should get
rid of the Sydney trams.
» • #
The straight hint that the trams should be
sold is clearly thrown out on the plan of
getting in the thin end of the wedge and
subsequently driving it home by selling the
railways. The process should be resisted
from the first. The entire scheme is one
for exploiting the country. In the United
States, where the exactions by private pro-
prietaries of railways are felt and appre-
ciated, it is one of the most cherished aims
of the people to nationalize such con-
veniences. Even where competing lines run
side by side, and occasionally cut rates to
next to nothing, for a time, the main result
is just the same to the people as if there
were no competition—as would be the case
were the iSew South Wales railways to pass
into private ownership. Cut-throat rivalry
is invariably the precursor of a “ pool,” and
when that is arranged, rates are raised to an
excess which quickly recoups the syndicates
for their previous losses. That driven beast,
the public, pays for all. Once in possession
of the railways of an Australian province,
the monopolists would speedily control
everything else. It could humour its host
of employes at a convenient time, and seduce
their votes, till it was master of the Legisla-
ture. That step achieved, it would be
supreme quite long enough to suit its ulterior
purposes. Contracts once entered into are
binding upon all subsequent Legislatures.
Concessions of such rights as the exclusive
privilege of owning all additions to and
extensions of existing lines, would be quite
a possible gain. The tradesmen of the
country would become the vassals of the
railway men, who could, by delays in trans-
mission of goods and other vexations, even
if any provisions in the sale-contract against
differential rates were not repealed by
the nobbled Legislature, speedily ruin any
intractable merchant. The coastal sea-
trade would quickly fall into hands so power-
ful. Settlers, farmers, even squatters, unless
they were indifferent to prompt transmission
of their wool and produce to catch a favour-
able market, would have to toe the mark
and bow before the omnipotent railway men.
The labouring population would become
their slaves and their victims.
* * *
The democracy of Australia must be
watchful of every movement of the syndi-
cators, who are observant of their divisions,
and merely waiting a chance to o mnence
operations. The present disunion of the
democratic elements in the New South Wales
Legislative Assembly and in the country is
fraught with serious dangers. There are
sturdy radicals alike among Protectionists
and Freetraders, but at present they
have no cohesion. The most serious
danger to the Democratic cause just
now is the disposition of extremists
outside Parliament to depreciate the value
of the representatives of Labour and
Democracy within that body. It seems to
be the aim of every shouter who can find a
stump and men to stand round it, to revile
the Labour members for not doing some
extravagant thing which would compromise
Democracy and weaken the cause. The
people will do well to consider the difference
that exists between irresponsible clamours,
and actions which have immediate and con-
siderable consequences. What is wanted
just now is not denunciations of Labour
members. That weakens their influence,
just when it needs all the strengthening
which evidences of competence would afford
to it. The wild declamation of men who
merely want to supplant those they revile
affords no evidence that they possess those
qualities of firmness, reflectiveness, judicious-
ness, and ability which ought to be the
essentials of a representative of the people.
Most of the democratic members of the
present Assembly are of genuine quality,
and it needs but a suitable occasion to bring
them together not again to sunder. But
they will unite all the more readily, and
their numbers will be all the greater, if the
railers of the stump be shewn that they do
not represent the people whose views they
pretend to voice. Their frantic unreason-
ableness merely deters some of the best men
in public life from active exertion, lest they
be supposed to endorse the fanatical extra-
vagances to which the capitalistic press is so
fond of giving prominence.
The Angel-Making Industry.
A few days ago the Sydney police accidentally
discovered the private graveyard attached to a
baby-farming institution, and sundry persons
who are suspected of being responsible for the
aforesaid cemetery are now under arrest.
Other graveyards, for whose existence the same
family is alleged to be liable, are being dug
up at intervals, 15 or 16 infants’ bodies have
been unearthed, and that impersonal thing
described as society is much astonished at these
revelations, and at the light which they are
supposed to cast upon the angel - making
industry. In reality, however, there is no
reason for astonishment, and no new light
whatever has been shed on the manufacture of
the cherubim. The fact that baby-farming
exists on an enormous scale is sufficiently
demonstrated every day in the advertising
columns of the daily papers in every Australian
city, and the fact that it means bald, un-
varnished murder is an inference so obvious
that it could hardly escape observation. The
Bulletin has many times drawn attention to
this circumstance in its leading columns, but it
is not at all pi’oud of the performance ; a blind
man could have done as much. The only note-
worthy circumstance about the recent discovery
— which, whether the Makin family are proved
to be connected with it or not, is none the less a
glaring commentary on the profession of infanti-
cide—is that the police and the daily press still
profess to treat it as an isolated circumstance—
a solitary atrocity, instead of a part of a wide-
spread system. The back-yard of every house
which the Makin family has recently occupied
is being dug up with praiseworthy energy, but
the fact that the premises and practices of the
whole tribe of ghouls who adopt strange infants
for a consideration are equally in want of
examination seems to be entirely overlooked.
* # #
The baby-farming industry, like every other,
has suffered in recent years through excessive
competition. There may have been a time
when the woman who undertook to adopt
children—mostly illegitimate—at a fixed tariff
and no questions asked, could make an honest
though meagre living by her occupation, but
that time is long past. The price at which
children are now adopted for life varies, as per
the advertisements in every issue of sundry
evening papers, from £2 to about £s—the latter
being the maximum. The average is probably
about 705., and for this amount the adopted
mother is supposed to bring up the unhappy
waif in the way it should go, to supply board
and lodging, clothing and education for a
period of (say) fourteen years, and yet
make a certain profit on the transac-
tion. The very lowest price at which an in-
fant could be adopted—and not murdered
—as a commercial transaction is probably about
£.300 ; the 70s. infant is doomed from the out-
set. It has to be killed very promptly, too,
else it is certain to degenerate into a losing
speculation. It cannot receive ordinary burial,
because in that case the medical certificate and
the funeral expenses would swallow the scanty
profits ; moreover, to secure the aforesaid certi-
ficate it is necessary that the victim should not
die too obviously of starvation or strangulation;
and further, the baby-farmer cannot afford the
ostentation of funerals, even apart from the
financial aspect of the case—a house which has
a hearse before, the door every week becomes
dangerously conspicuous, and to become con-
spicuous in the pursuit of such a trade spells
ruin. Therefore, the adopted infant has not
only got to die promptly, but it has to be
bur.ed in a garden or a cellar, or tossed
into a paddock, or it has to be cremated, or
quicklimed, or dropped into a sewer, or
disposed of in some similir fashion. The
one absolutely sure thing about the pro-
fession is that every baby-farmer who conducts
the business on a reasonably large scale has her
own private cemetery somewhere, and it is the
obvious duty of the authorities to do their level
best to find that receptacle, and call its owivm
to account.
# # #
Yet when they have found it the business
will be very little further advanced. The pro-
fession of angel-making may be almost described
as one of the essentials of modern civilisation,
as that misused word is misunderstood in Aus-
tralia and elsewhere. The victims are almost
all of illegitimate origin, and their mothers
have at present only two alternatives—child-
murder or child-desertion in person, or the
same crimes performed by deputy. The “ un-
married mother ” has not, in 99 cases out of
100, the means to maintain her infant burden.
She cannot work ; the same burden is, in
almost every case, a sufficient bar to her obtain-
ing employment. Social prejudice makes it
impossible for her to support herself, and the
law gaols her for not supporting herself. And,
in addition to all this, she is a thing of loathing
and an outcast among her kind. It is unlawful to
desert her infant; it is unlawful to kill it; and
it is generally starvation and always a perennial
hell to retain it alive ; therefore her situation
is practically that of a man at the bottom of an
ice-well, who is authorised by Act of Parlia-
ment to get out by his own efforts, but who
never does get out all the same. Under these
circumstances the angel-maker becomes some-
thing-almost resembling a necessity. She is a
particularly gruesome necessity, but still she is
much less gruesome than the other alternative.
While society conspires to make it im-
possible for the unwedded mother the
one who has not gone through the mar-
riage ceremony with a Chinaman or any
other human horror—ever to retrieve her
position, so long as her offspring remains
alive as evidence against her, the doings
of this ghoul might fairly be classed as
justifiable infanticide but for one considera-
tion—though the infanticide must be done
as a sacrifice to society, every one, save
the last individual in the community, has the
option of passing on the responsibility, and
leaving the crime to someone else. Yet if it
were not for her hunger after the £5 it might
even be supposed that the angel-maker recog-
nised that she was that last individual—the one
destined by fate to perform a necessary horror
in the interests of her suffering sisters, because
all the rest of her sex had declined the respon-
sibility. The person who took in infants
gratis, and disposed of them painlessly, and
buried them with some semblance of decency,
might almost claim to be a philanthropist.
* * #
In any case, the crime does not rest entirely
with the actual assassin. A small portion, no
doubt, lies upon the mother, but she is driven
to such straits that her share is infinitesimal. A
much greater share usually rests with the father,
and if the law takes to sending the baby-farmer
to the gallows, a good many “ respectable ” citi-
zens and influential legislators should keep her
company. But the principal among the subor-
dinate criminals is the farmer’s agent and go-
between the proprietor of the newspaper
which advertises her business. The trade
is openly and glaringly one of murder,
and the paper which inserts advertisements
concerning it publishes what are practically
invitations to commit murder, and cards
stating that the advertiser has butchery done
on the premises. The newspaper owner is an
essential element in the business, for without
his aid the assassin and the victim would seldom
come in contact; and there is absolutely no
extenuating circumstance in his miserable case
save only the shillings which he receives
in payment. The actual baby-farmer is only
the extreme end in a chain of circumstances.
The case is very much like that of the aborigine
who gnaws the bones of a stolen sheep, and,
when his capacious stomach is sufficiently dis-
tended, throws them over his shoulder to his
gin. When she is finished with them she
throws them over her shoulder to the dog.
Then, if the law shot the dog, with a view to
the utter abolition of sheep-stealing, the parallel
would be about complete.
* * #
Society creates the demand for infanticide,
and while that demand endures, even the hang-
ing of a score of angel-makers will cause no
difference in the final result. It may slightly
raise the tariff for child-murder, or it mav even
make it so prohibitive that the majority of
mothers will be compelled to do their own
infanticide, but the crime will continue to be
as prevalent as ever while immorality lasts,
and immorality will endure as long as human-
ity is built on the existing pattern, and until
Providence constructs a new race of mankind
upon plans and specifications drawn in gall
with a gimlet by the Social Purity Society.
No vice—not even murder or fraudulent bank-
ing, or hypocrisy—has ever been abolished by
statute, and immorality is as impervious as the
rest. Therefore, there remain only four alter-
natives : (1) That society especially the
alleged Christian section of society, which is
the principal cause of the late gruesome dis-
covery in a back-yard, and many others equally
gruesome, past and yet to come—should learn
something of Christian charity—that it should
cease to make child-murder the only possible
escape from utter misery—and that "it should
give up advertising that it will bestow on the
repentant Magdalene a job in the kitchen at
reduced wages. (2) That the law should
recognise infanticide as a necessity, and build
an establishment where it can be done pain-
lessly, and upon the most scientific methods.
(3) That national foundling hospitals shall be
maintained by the State, where every child
brought to the door will be taken in
when the bell rings, absolutely without
question or comment. And (4) that the
baby - farming industry shall go on as here-
tofore, and the regular advertisement shall
continue to appear in the papers, and the back-
yard shall be periodically dug up in search of
dead bodies in the good old way. The first
alternative is, to all appearance, utterly hope-
less, and may as well be dropped out of the
list. The fourth is horrible,'for the baby-
farmer’s methods are coarse and unscientific,
and her mode of interment is insanitary and
likely to lead to pestilence. Therefore, there
only remain the other two—either the State
must adopt the infant waif and make the best
use it can of the raw material left at its doors ;
or else it must allow it to die in the feast
objectionable fashion possible. The Bulletin
invites society at large to choo-e which method
it will adopt.


Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as tbe purest and best of liquors.
For Is. 3d. will be posted from The Bul-
letin Office, Sydney, to any Australasian address
a copy of The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” illustrated by Hop. and Phil. May ; or,
a copy of “ Tales of the Convict System,”by “Price
Waning.” The cheaper edition of “A Golden
Shanty ”is now out of print; a cloth-bound copy
will be mailed to any Australian address for 2s,
Paradise—smoking a G N U N Darling.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Trying Time.
The conspiracy of silence entered into by the
Victorian Legislature for the protection of
Matthew Davies and Co. is not without its
amusing side. For some time past the land of
privileged swindle and glorified roguery has
been spared the infliction of “representative”
gabble on things in general. That bloated
institution, the public man—which, in Victoria,
means something that a respectable private man
doesn’t care to drink with—is abnormally un-
assertive outside the House. He has suddenly
ceased to rage round in quest of chances to take
the chair, nor does he shove his chuckle-head
out of railway-carriage windows and smile upon
the masses. He attends no banquets, possibly
because there are none to attend, and rigidly
abstains from creating opportunities to make a
few remarks at suburban town-halls. He is
afraid to “ do the Block ” in his old, advertising
way, and daren’t enter a fashionable pub. or
restaurant by himself lest an infuriated victim
of fraudulent balance-sheets might grab hinrby
the ear and ask him when he intends to do his
duty by his bleeding country. He avoids his
constituency as carefully as possible until
actually summoned to come down and show his
fallen countenance, and even then he mostly
sends word that he is too ill to attend. He
sneaks into his seat in Parliament regu-
larly enough, for the ostensible purpose
of making speeches there and voting on
the Budget. But he really goes as a secret
adherent of Davies and Co., so that in the
unlikely event of anybody making a feeble
reference to the busted banks, he may be ready
to murmur “Shame!” and boil with virtuous
indignation against the “ dangerous ” member.
The dread that one of their number may get
mad drunk and call for “ Pros’cushun ! ” by
accident, keeps the House together just now,
for the natural desire of the public man is to
shut himself up in the coal-cellar till the
financial storm has blown over. Meanwhile
the storm doesn’t promise to blow over, thanks
be to God ! The outlook grows blacker than
ever, and the condition of the public man
becomes more abject every day. His gas is
leaking and his stomach is dwindling down to
nothing. Soon there will have to be a mid-
night meeting of the Cabinet, Ministerial sup-
porters, both corners, and the straight Opposi-
tion, in order to decide upon the best means of
enabling the Senate to breathe again. As the
upshot of this discussion the Crown will
announce its determination to prosecute about
two dozen bank-directors in six months time,
at the expiration of which period it will be
found impossible to serve warrants upon the
suspected parties because they have all retired
to Timbuctoo.
-♦
The O d “Argus” versus the New.
When George Higinbotham was editor of the
Argus, he engaged in controversy over the
principle of representation with Edward
Wilson, one of the proprietors. Wilson wrote
letters urging the distinct representation of
Property. Higinbotham replied in a leading
article, and clinched the argument by the fol-
lowing passage—as succinct a statement of the
democratic position as we know. He wrote ;
Mr. Wilson says: Give every man a vote by right of
manhood, and another by right of property. But why by
right of property ? Because property is an interest. But
are there no other interests ? The labourer has an inter-
est in keeping up wages. The doctor in the soread of
noxious exhalations. The lawyer in the maintenance of
crime and quarrelling. If you go a little farther than Mr.
Wilson does you get into absurdity ; if you stop where he
stops, you abide with injustice. Property is but one of
many interests, and is itself sub-divisible into an inde-
finite number of antagonistic interests. We do not think
it is contended that the possession of property should be
rewarded with a political bonus; but that is the effect.
Yet, if you are to make any class a privileged class,
the class of educated persons is surely fitter to
be so privileged than any other. But here, again,
we should have to classify further. If you give a
man an extra vote for being able to read and write,
you should give hjm another for a higher degree of culti-
vation— ycu should give him a special vote for a com-
petent knowledge of geography. The high art of writ-
ing Greek hexameters ought not to be overlooked in the
direction of the suffrage. Quadratic equations must not
go unrepresented, while the differential calculus thruld
command half-a-dozen votes at least. No doubt this
serins very 7 absurd, butitisonly so because into absurdity
we are inevitably led in any attempt to arrange a system
of suffrage according to which different in’erests and
different degrees of intelligence are to be specially repre-
sented. We presume no one over contended that ti e
counting of heads was an infallible way of getting at the
truth ; and we advocate manhood suffrage, not because it
is an infallible, but because it is the best practicable
expedient for securing representative government.
Thus does the Argus logic of the late Fifties,
when in its intellectual prime, blow kite-high
the Argus logic of the early Nineties when in
its dotage.
Dilke and Stead.
The report that Sir Charles Dilke has pur-
chased Pall Mall Gazette has strong proba-
bilities. Now that he has succeeded in re-
entering public life, Dilke will absolutely
require an organ in the press to counteract the
attacks to which he has so long been exposed,
and to give current diffusion to his views.
Every politician requires to educate his public.
Ideas which, if presented to unprepared and
uninstructed minds, would be rejected as im-
practicable or neglected because not understood,
are often hailed with approbation and even
enthusiasm once people have got the grip of
their real import. Sir Charles Dilke has even
more need than most men of a special organ,
because he has bee'n made the victim of an
extraordinary malignity of attack by a most
active and unscrupulous personal enemy, Mr.
Stead. For some reason best known to
himself, Stead has made a dead set at
Dilke, as a bold, bad man, a type of “ the
wicked baronet ” of kitchen romance. After
a remarkable trial in court, a judg u “it imposed
upon Dilke responsibility for adultery,and some
of the evidence at the trial, denied by him on
oath, represented him as somewhat Oriental in
his relations with the fair sex. Sir Charles
has never ceased to declare the evidence false.
Yet the judgment stands, and Stead feels quite
safe in perpetually turning over the malodorous
details. But the influence of Stead is on the
wane. His peculiar advocacy of the Mattei
empiricism opened a good many eyes. But
what, perhaps, gave a better insight into his
insincerity was the circumstance that, at
the s une time that he was writing columns
of holy shrieks against the immorality
of Sir Charles Dilke, he published a bio-
graphical notice of the Prince of Wales, in
which he described that great social potentate
in terms of abject laudation. Now Dilke may
be all that Stead describes him to be, but even
so he can compare in some things very favour-
ably with Albert the Middling to Inferior.
Stead seems to have set himself to build up a
reputation for purity on very nearly the same
rotten foundations as a certain Sydney quack
banker chose for the structure of his character
for integrity. This design does not require
a man to be particularly good himself. All
it wants is a loud, shrill voice and an air
of indignant horror. It was in the Pall
Mall Gazette that Stead first began his
racking of Dilke. There will be some humour
in the situation if Dilke should use the Pall
Mall to expose Stead. There must be some-
thing to expose. No man ever yet made so
much ostentation of virtue as Stead without
having a big vice or two. When you see a man
always flapping a big cloak about him, fine
weather or foul, you may make pretty sure that
there’s a hole in his jerkin.
♦
Foreign-trade cablegram from Sydney Echo :
At a meeting; of the London Chamber of Commerce
to-day, Sir John Lubbock, chairman, made some remarks
on the effect of the M’Kinley tariff law. He declared that
although the sufferings of England were great in conse-
quence of the M’Kinley tariff, yet he assured them the
sufferings ot the Americans themselves from the law were
even greater. The M’Kinley tariff, he averred, had
proved disastrous to the lumber, barley and tinplate in-
dustries of the United States. In conclusion, he expressed
his belief that it was impossible for America to long main-
tain in existence such a tariff.
This is good enough, if the Foreign-trade press
would only hang together, but it doesn’t. The same
week that the above message appeared, Sydney
Daily Telegraph published an eloquent article
to demonstrate that, though the M'Kinley tariff
had greatly increased—not ruined—-the Ameri-
can tin-plate industry, it had done a tremendous
amount of damage to the fruit business. Also,
ex-Foreign-trade Secretary Pulsford proved,
in an evening paper, that though the U.S.
exports had increased since the M'Kinley
tariff was introduced about four times as
much as they ever did before in a similar
period, yet the increase was wholly in
grain—barley included. Therefore, the Echo
claims that Protection is a dead failure in the
States because it wrecks the tin-plate, barley,
and timber trade ; and the Telegraph asserts
that it is a sham and a mockery because,
though it booms the tin-plate exports, it
wrecks something else in the agricultural pro-
duce line; and Pulsford proves to his own
entire satisfaction that it is a hollow imposture
because, although it makes an enormous in-
crease in the agricultural produce exports, yet
it doesn’t enlarge the manufactured exports —
including tin-plate—at all. And, at the same
time, the U.S. trade statistics demonstrate that
there were practically no tin-plate manufac-
tures in the country at all till the M'Kinley
tariff came into operation, and that the fruit
industry is booming. The Foreign-trade
authorities should meet somewhere, and arrange
to make their stories hang together.
.
Hark to the Wise—B. R. Wise, we mean, i n
his latest book :
So long as there are any who are forced by external
circumstances, in whose ordering they have had no voice,
to start in the struggle for existence handicapped by
want of education: so long as there are others who are
weakened in the poweis of self-improvement by any
alterable condition of society; so long as the State or
public opinion maintain any institutions which directly or
indirectly cause to others physical misery or mental dark-
ness—so long it will be the duty of Freetraders and
Protectionists alike to agitate for a policy of action which
may bring us nearer to the day when inaction can be
justified.
Now inasmuch as the New South Wales Labour
Party’s aims are substantially defined by the
last clause in the quoted paragraph, The
Bulletin calls upon B. R. Wise to ratify his
words—which else will ever confront him in
the brutal, damning cold-bloodedness of type—
by joining that party.
These are the views of the Sydney Foreign-
trade press on Cleveland’s prospective election
as U.S. President. Let us begin with those of
the S.M. Herald (American correspondent) :
But it was notorious that Mr. Cleveland did not share
this view, and in his letter of acceptance he expressly asks
the i eaple not to be frightened by the “ spectre of im-
possible froetrade.”
Daily Telegraph :
The great stronghold of Protection has fallen. There
is not the slightest doubt that within a very short time
material changes affecting the whole civilised world, and
this colony in particu'ar, will take place in the fiscal laws
ot the United States. . . . Tne newly chosen President
who is to supplant General Harrison in a few months’
time at the White House is a Freetrader, sent into office
upon a Freetrade platform. It is idle to deny this fact,
as Protectionist advocates in this colony are inclined
to do.
Evening News :
It is not a Freetrade victory.
Echo:—
It would seem that that old superstition which goes
under the name of “Protection to native industries ” has
received its death-blow in the United States of America.
The efforts put forth by the monopolists in America to
ensure a continuance of the policy under which they had
waxed fat are said to have been enormous. The victory
for Freetrade is, therefore, so much the more pronounced.
Now, why on earth don’t these four Freetrade
editors meet together somewhere in a dry spot
and arrange to all tell the same story ? And
why, especially, doir’t'ithe Herald and Echo,
which are published in the same office and
owned by the same firm, contrive to make their
narratives hang together ft little better ?
A hard-shell Tory, signing himself T.G.8.,
writes to the Argus respecting the dangers of
co-operation amongst the working-men, and the
folly of “Capital” in overlooking the fact that
“it is safer to employ as much free labour as
can be obtained in preference to unionists.”
The folly of there being any “ free” labour at
Capital’s disposal doesn’t suggest itself to this
gentleman, not even when he goes on to remark
that “the higher wages the Australian unionists
get the more they can spare to put into their
funds, and the oftener they will be able to
strike.” Here we have potent arguments in
favour of unionism for unionists, and “ free ”
labour for mine-owners condensed into the
same nutshell. Unionism creates good
wages, and the ability to strike for
better, whilst non - unionism means pay
too scanty to admit of anybody being
able to keep body and soul together during a
few weeks of “ strike.” Regarded through the
gold-rimmed spectacles of “ T.G.8.,” the pros-
pect of universal “ free ” labour is joyous in the
extreme. Gazed upon by the naked eye of a
lead-poisoned miner, it is simply damnable.
And as the prospect always did, does, and will
continue to present these strangely different
appearances to each of the interested parties,
and as neither party can be persuaded to see
any differently, and the “ free ” labourer, being
stone blind, can’t see at all, the wonder is that
the Argus can spare space for “T.G.B.’s”
letter. On second thoughts, The Bulletin
begs to withdraw the last remark. The Argus
was invented for the purpose of encouraging
respectable idiots to echo its own evil senti-
ments.
Two consecutive items from a recent issue of
Sydney Daily Telegraph :
Five of the crew of the steamer Warrnambool were
arrested on Saturday afternoon for having absented them-
selves from their work, and on being brought before the
Water Police Court this morning one explained that it
was all through some little misunderstanding. They,
however, were all willing to return to their work, and
were discharged from custody.
A sentence of three weeks’ imprisonment was meted
out this morning at the Water Police Court to a seaman
from the steamer Ratho, named Richard O’Connell, who
absented himself from his work without authority.
The Bulletin here asks, as it has done on
many previous occasions, how long this bur-
lesque upon justice is to last. It may be
equitable to punish the seaman who refuses to
do duty at sea, where the safety of a vessel
often depends on the maintenance of discipline,
but the case of the man who “absents himself
from his work ” in harbour is entirely different.
If the above sentence is anywhere within gun-
shot of justice then the magistrate who inflicted
it should be gaoled for 21 days when he fails to
turn up on the bench in the morning, as most
magistrates not unfrequently do ; and the same
variety of law should be served out to the
Governor who leaves his vice-regal duties and
drops his reigning implements and goes off
to the Melbourne Cup ; and the Minister who
doesn’t get down to his department in the
morning ; and the clerk, and the barrister, and
the preacher, and everybody else who is absent
when he is supposed, by the terms of his en-
gagement, to be present. The brutal custom of
imprisoning the seaman whenever he leaves his
ship to have a walk up town, is a sufficient
proof that there is no justice in Australia for
the man’’ who doesn’t possess the suffrage. So
long as his vote is of no value to any member
of Parliament, he stands on exactly the same
footing as the Kanaka who has gone out mash-
ing some dusky female instead of hoeing in the
cane-field, as a well-regulated nigger ought to
do, and he gets exactly the same kind of justice
—which is no justice at all.
The weekly banker who has gone to gaol since
the last issue ot The Bulletin is William
Edgar Harold Phillips —sentenced to four
years for false pretences —who used to call him-
self the “ Austral Banking and Land Proprie-
tary.” Phillips wasn’t much of a bank even
in his best days. As far as appears from the
evidence he had no capital and not much brains,
but he opened an office, with some splendid
furniture, a safe, a blotting-pad, and other ink-
spattered trash, and called himself a great and
solid financial institution, and because of these
things complete strangers called in and left
their money with him in absolute confidence.
His strong point was the “ board of re-
ference,” consisting of a number of solid
citizens who don’t seem to have known very
much about him, and who knew nothing what-
ever about his business, but who were willing
to depose to his unblemished character when
asked, and thus help him to scoop in the
deposits. Apparently this board, by its
reckless assertions as to Phillips’ character,
was a great assistance to the Austral swindle,
and so long as the board incurred no per-
sonal risk some of its members, at least,
don’t seem to have cared much what happened.
But after a while Phillips began to shed around
an impression that the board took charge of
the business and was virtually a body of
directors, and as this also implied that
they would be responsible when the bank
burst, the solid citizens rose up and repudiated
Phillips. Some of them, at all events, had
already vouched for his good character, and
when they began to suspect that he hadn’t
any, they don’t appear to have taken any
steps to undo the mischief they had, or might
have, already effected ; so far as can be ascer-
tained, they simply provided for the safety of
their own characters by backing out of a false
position, and let things rest at that. If there
isn’t any law whereby the “board of reference”
can be made responsible for the deposits which
Phillips obtained with its assistance, The
Bulletin is of opinion that there ought to be.
Specimen of Sydney Telegraph’s logic —re the
Macdonaldtown baby-farming job :
When the total number of bodies found mounted up to
13 it was recognised that the biggest system of baby-
farming or baby-murdering operations that had ever been
carried on in the colony had been exposed, but the end
has apparently not been reached yet.
Now, how does the Telegraph know that even
the thirteen dead infants make up “ the biggest
system of baby-farming and baby-murdering ”
iii New South Wales? The Macdonaldtown
artists might have buried 130 infants, instead of
13, with impunity if they had planted them
further below the surface; and there may be
twenty larger baby-farms in Sydney, which,
being run on scientific principles and quicklime,
have never come to light and probably never
will. The Telegraph is a great deal too pre-
vious in its assumpt ions. When the police start
from the smell in a back-yard and work back-
wards they only find the practitioner who
bowls herself out by her ignorance of hygiene ;
if they started from the eveningnewspaper “ad.”
and worked forwards they might make some
other discoveries in the angel-making business
that would surprise them and raise the Tele-
graph’s hair.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications 'which arrio
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name am
address mast in every case appear on MU. •
“Microbe” : But yon must suppress youi
criminal libels. They are as bald as eggs, and it’s dan-
even to have ’em on the premises . “Erie
Uraxe ” : The man who labels his matter “ cynical ” is on
a par with the man who calls himself a poet. Neverthe-
less, passable verse.... “ The Orphan ” : Haven't seen it.
..“Morning Watch”: Try again. .“John Milne ” (Fiji):
We certainly were not previously aware that the U.S. law
of inheritance was so stringent. The Supreme Court’s
decision, of course, forms a precedent “Tinto ” (Ben-
digo) : There is poetry in it, and you mean it from the
bottom of your heart, but it won’t do as verse “ Poor
Tommy ” ; Ah, now you are sending your own verses,
which, if printed, would get us 18 months.... “ J.P.T.” ;
The dangerous “Tom Collins ” joke w'as lately explained
in these columns “ Harry F.” (W.A.): Thanks, but the
photo gives no clear idea of the trouble, and if it did no
paper with a general circulation could use it... “ Aco ” :
Who sentenced the Brookong rioters to three years’ hard
labour? The heavy sentences passed in that case were in
some sort a precedent for those passed at Deniliquin on
the Broken Hill men .... “ W.H.”; It is still necessary to
joke acridly about the mother-in-law—the gorgon who
pours gall into the ear of innocence.... “S.M.” ;If it can
be shown she knows where her husband is she cannot re-
marry, no matter how 7 long she has been deserted. Her
plea of desertion would only mitigate her sentence on
trial for bigamy. She can surely get a divorce. (2) The
Ly-ee-Moon was wrecked at Green Cape. (3) You can’t
blame a man in search of lodgings for objecting
to children. It is enough for the inhabitants
of the earth to look after their own children
“ Constant Reader,” &c. (Mossgiel): 145 Collins-street,
Melbourne....“ 0.K.” (B.): Crude throughout, and dis-
figured by many hopeless rhymes “ T.J.8.” : You may
breed good horses dow r n there, but you don’t breed good
bards.... “ Jacko ” : Please don’t send us anything about
people who “ rejoice ” in certain names “ F.S.” : Dr.
Manning is head of the N.S.W. Government asylums for
the insane. There is near Sydney a private asylum con-
ducted under Government supervision by Dr. Vause....
“Our Charity”: Must be boiled down “ Omega " :
Thanks. If you suspect leprosy 7, report confidentially to
the Government Chief Medical Officer, Sydney...,
“ Junius” (Ad.); You must condense tremendously....
“ Frank A. B.”: “B. v. B.” good verse. As to
“ Whither,” you write on the lines of “The Cry of a
Clod,” in this issue ; and the latter is much the better.
Will consider the rest.... “ Doubt ” : Yes, unquestionably 7
it does exist. Don’t be afraid to talk to a doctor....
“ The Australian Girl ” : Bright and interesting, some of
them....“ Austral ”: Thanks. Characteristic, but per-
haps hardly usable... “C.J.S.”; The daily press, of
course, does not mention The Bulletin’s name, but speak
of it as a “certain paper.” This is only fair, as The
Bulletin has always tried to avoid being an uncertain
paper.... “ A.F.G.” : Three ones only count as 19 in case
of agreement to that effect, w 7 hioh is pretty common.. .
“Colo.”: Howe and Miller were convicted on 2nd. Nov.
1891—just a year and a day before the conviction of
Abigail and Macnamara “T.C.”: Thanks, but most of
it stale— “Coro.” : Sorry to tread on your toes. So far
as we can understand there is about as much difference
between a Scotsman and a Scotchman as there is between
a Hebrew and a Jew, or between a crocodile and an
alligator ... “L.L.0.” : The black snake with the blood-
red over the abdomen is not, according to Dr. George
Bennett, F.L.S., a very venomous reptile. The poison-
fangs are small, and many instances have occurred when
persons bitten by this reptile have, as though poisoned by
opium, after much drowsiness recovered without any
treatment....“ A.S.” (Napier); We decline to believe
that the Maori divorce system consisted in eating the
co-respondent. We never saw an edible co-respondent
yet... “ W.A.S.” : Thirteen long verses full of nothing-
ness and great slabs of vacancy “ F.C.J.” (Launces-
ton) : Even in its improved state your poem doesn’t fetch
us. “ Banjo ” and “ can go ”is an aboriginal rhyme.. .
“F.J.8.” (Geelong): Thanks “G. C. Thorne”: Glad
to know that you dreamt Glenloth would win. So did
nearly everybody we know, except a man who suffers
from insomnia “The Passer-by 7” ;We only remember
two men who seemed as cocksure of everything as you
are. One of them is in gaol now, and the other at the
leper-station... “ J.F.H." (Barcaldine); We don’t believe
in palmistry. Somebody looked at our band very long
ago, and said we would rise to greatness, and meanwhile
her pal got in by the back-door and stole the blankets off
the bed. That’s about the whole science “Orpheus
Cleveland denies being a Freetrader. Therefore, he is
either a Protectionist or a liar “ R.A.C.” (Richmond):
We don’t go in for theology. All man knows
for certain is that he doesn’t know, and theology
consists in arguing violently about this ignorance..,
“ L.L.” (Sydney); Too lengthy, and subject dealt with
before in The Bulletin “ Guess ” (Brisbane): One of
the “ goaks,” as you call them, will d 0... “ The Pauper”:
Metre considerably gone in the hind-legs “J.G.R.”
(Charlton): The first verse is good, but after that you
pile up the agony about your best girl too high “L. S.
Pence”: You remind us of a man who comes in occa-
sionally to tell how he once met eleven beautiful women
all together in the Botanic Gardens, and became engaged
to the whole lot of them right there “J.M.H."
(Chines): “Price Warung ” says “the present Royal
Hotel, Sy 7 dney, was built by John Terry Hughes, who
purchased the site from Joseph Wyatt, after the destruc-
tion by fire, on the I7lh March, 1840, of the old Royal,
erected by Barney Levy. The saloon of the old Royal was
the first building in the province formally licensed for
dramatic performances.” “J.W.”: Wainwright, for
the murder of Harriet Lane, was hanged 21st Dec., 1875,
the crime having been discovered on the previous 11th
September “W.A.S.”: “P.W.” writes you direct
“ Blackall ”: Some day The Bulletin will come out every
minute instead of every week; then, perhaps, we’ll be
able to keep an eye on all the small swindles from China
to Peru “S.L.” : You seem to have blown out your
brains on the post-card. The poetry is incomprehensible,
but there is some sticky, grey substance on it that looks
like your disused cerebellum “S.F.C.” (Woodburn):
The Argus puts it better: “ The line of beauty’s curved,
they say; the line of truth is Bent.”... “Yermyn”:
You say that soon you “ will be no more.” Well, as a
poet you couldn’t be very much less.... “ Leander ”
(Charters Towers): Many thanks... “Fil Filips ” : Wants
a lot of condensation “E.D.” (Gunnedah): Don’t
recollect the MS., but will turn the office upside
down and shake it till the document falls out “A
Layman” (S. Woodburn): It isn’t the libel we object to ;
it’s the metre “D. M. M‘G.” (Melbourne); Too
late. Besides it takes a large poet to obituarise
Tennyson... “ Amoker ” (Gladesville) ; Hardly suitable...
“ The Tug” (Tibooburra): Too lat ■ to begin localising the
story of Jonah and the whale. Besides, nobody w 7 ants it
localised, so far as we know “K.M’K.”: Good verse,
but the dream of the old horse that once won the Cup has
been done too often... “ Tarantula ” : Regarded as a joke
it is heavy, but viewed as a kedge-anchor it is about the
average weight “ H.M.H.” (Masterton, M.L): De-
clined. Pure London JouRNAL-ese literature “ Wil-
liam F.” : The death of Jim and how the blossoms grew
above his grave are declined, for the following reason :
...." F.W.S.P.” (Annandale): An almost impossible case.
Moreover, you’ll never get an absolutely pertect electoral
system till you go to vote for a white-winged candidate in
Paradise, .. ”F.N.”(Bowraville): Article too ponderous to
be readable. We know of no likely publisher ...“Emu”:
The only thrilling point is where the son “wholly
decapitated his mother’s head.” Supposing he had
partially beheaded her feet—what then?....“Joe Wilson”:
Hardly suitable....“ H. R. Maguire”; You are afflicted
with a heavy and unreadable style and evidently write
with a crowbar “Alexander”; Will endeavour to u;e
“B.W.” (Gympie): Belongs to the cast-iron variety
of mirth, like the humorous aspect of an alligator’s back.
He was a bullock punching cove,
Was Jim of Booligal,
And across the dreary plains he drove.
He had no ancient ancestry
Nor knew he much of nauseous society,
Did Jim of Booligal.


THE BEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid to Policy-holders in Forty-nine Years
—BY—
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Funds Exceed £33,150,000.
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Profits paid to Policy-
holders. Bonuses larger than in any other company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and
we will forward you an illustration of the benefits to be obtained under modern forms of life and
investment assurances, in which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
immediately upon receipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Company’s
agencies throughout the world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
Principal Agency : 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches I 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; 223 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
A perfect smoke —G NUN Darlings.
Mrs. Beeton says: “Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. 6d., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clarets, and they are only one-third of the
orice.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Silver King.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
PrinceSs s.. Gaiety Burlesque.
Theatre Royal Maggie Moore Sta,
Bijou .... “Niobe.”
Opera House Alabama MinstreiS.
Alexandra Comedy Co.
Sydney had an Eisteddfod last week. An
Eisteddfod is a show with a lot of hidden humour
about it, though the conductors always insist on
treating it in a desperately solemn spirit. Six or
eight or a dozen people come out and sing
the same thing in succession, and the one who
sings it best gets a prize. By the time the third
man comes out the audience begins to wear an
exhausted aspect, and all the joy is gone out of
the song till it becomes as flat as a lease or a
deposit-receipt set to music. The committee is
armed with a bell, and when the competitor on
the platform has successfully demonstrated that he
can’t win the prize it rings that implement
sharply. Then the songster has to stop short in
the middle of his top note and trot off. If he
insists on proceeding with the song the committee
rings the bell again furiously, and if that doesn’t
stop him he is removed—by the hair or otherwise.
If the songster is very bad, it sometimes happens
that he has only had time to open his mouth and
split the welkin with one premonitory yell when
he is turned off at the tap, in a manner of speak-
ing. Then he fixes a wildly questioning eye on
the committee as one who says: “Can this be
true, or is it a horrid dream ?” After that he
sticks out his chest about two feet, and goes off
with a martial stride, expressive of the fact that
he doesn’t want the prize, and wouldn’t have the
beastly thing on any account, his suit being some-
thing like that of the cat that tries to eat a green
parrot and then departs with its tail swollen to
eight times its natural size when the bird swears
at it. The most injured-looking man at the
late Eisteddfod at Sydney was the seventh or
eighth person who started to perpetrate Hamlet’s
soliloquy. He flapped his arms twice in an in-
effectual effort to fly, and said, “TO BE ——” in
a loud, raucous voice, but the bell went just then,
and the line was never finished. The audience
laughed, and the elocutionist cast a look of rage
and undying hate at the committee, gathered up
his coat-tails, and sprinted from the scene. As he
went out he probably cannoned against the next
competitor coming in, for that individual entered
rapidly in a terrified state, and commenced hur-
riedly in a shrill, small voice, “To be ” but he
was choked off at the same point, and fell out of
the hall just three seconds after his entry. We
wouldn’t like to be judge in an Eisteddfod.
** * *
The Gourlay-Walton combination con-
tinues to gather in the root of all evil at Sydney
Garrick, but the first part in the new programme
is hardly up to last week’s standard. It consists
mostly of Mr. Gourlay, and represents a mis-
anthropic Scotch baronet gradually getting
mashed on his landlady, while his valet drops a
plate in the background. The lady deliberately
sets out to mash this pillar of the constitution,
and to undermine him with haggis, and beguile
him with cockieleekie, but as a mash she is such a
pronounced failure that when the baronet falls in
his large check pants he gets little sympathy.
Also, the man who is led astray by haggis and
cockieleekie doesn’t appeal to any but a Scotch
audience; to anyone else his overthrow is as
unaccountable as the theory that Eve fell through
reaching after the forbidden cocoa-nut and break-
ing it with her teeth. A memorable feature in
the programme is a (day without words or
scenery, in which Mr. Walton has tooth-
ache, and Mr. Baxter, as the local chemist
and dealer in Rough on Rats, fills him up
with strychnine or something, whereupon the
stricken patient proceeds to convulse himself in
dead silence all over the premises, and to shriek by
hand, in a manner of speaking. Also Mr. Walton
has built an entirely new joke about a man who,
being drunk, ran against a barber’s pole and
thereupon complained of being kicked by a girl in
striped stockings, which item wants a lot of hard
consideration ; and Mr. Gourlay does “Hamlet ”
single-handed—a sort of compressed “Hamlet”
in a tin —and manfully tackles the parts of the
Prince, the King and Queen, the Ghost, the dead
body of Ophelia, Laertes, and the scene-shifter,
and likewise sings “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.” The
compressed “ Hamlet ”is mostly rubbish. The
company has been strengthened by the addition of
Miss Marie Dunoon, a very young lady with a
sweet contralto voice, a resolute chin, a rather
short, white frock, and a pair of determined boots,
who debuted on Saturday with great success.
*- * * *
“Silver King” holds out manfully at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and there is just the
shadow of a chance that it may accomplish a four
weeks’ run before the salted silver-mine gives out,
and the quotations go down to zero. For a
revival with no legs in it, no tights, no dancing,
and no singing, there hasn’t been such a record as
this in Sydney since a period so very far back
that legend runneth not to the contrary. Possibly
it is the first sign of a general revival. No city,
except, perhaps, Nineveh of old, ever wanted a
revival worse than Sydney does to-day, and if
Mr. Rignold is the first symptom of better times,
then his memory ought to be squashed with an
18-ton monument, with a flying angel or something
on the top of it.
* * *• *
The smaller Sydney shows made a tem-
porary splash on the recent holiday, but have now
got down again to their usual level. The most
unusual feature of the holiday show was at Coogee
Aquarium, where “the fattest baby in Australia”
was exhibited on the half-shell, and a stream of
excited mothers kept coming all day to view 7 the
overgrown spring infant. She was aged six
months, and weighed 431b5., and to that class of
parents who lightly turn to thoughts of bloated
offspring the attraction was immense while it
lasted.
** * *
Fiilis’ big circus and menagerie opens
the Carrington Grounds (Sydney) on Saturday.
To call a piece of ground “ Carrington ” and then
put monkeys on top of it is such an eminently
appropriate circumstance as to require no com-
ment. The location is sacred to Governor Smith,
and the presence of the lean and hairy shapes of
his unfinished progenitors will help to remind us
that Gov. Smith is not lost but only gone before.
The show includes a big menagerie, riders,
gymnasts, clowns, tumblers, two lion-tamers —one
of them a lady—who will tackle the gory carnivora
in their lair, an aquatic entertainment in a crystal
tank by Prof. Beaumont and his daughters, and
other attractions. Sydney has been rather short
of circuses for some time, and is probably craving
for one just now.
The story of “Niobe,” the latest produc-
tion at Melbourne Bijou, is told in the foregoing
poem. It is “ Pygmalion and Galatea ” reduced
to a riotous farce on the lines of the little story of
“The Tinted Venus.” W. S. Gilbert ought to
have written “ Niobe,” but the brothers Paulton
accomplished the feat instead, and the result is
satisfactory. A funny piece might be funnier,
But this fact makes no difference to an audience
that is generally shaking with laughter, so for all
practical purposes the new bill at the Bijou is a
success. Mr. and Mrs. Brough, as “Petramos”
Dunn and the mythological female restored to
animation by an electric battery, divide the glory
equally, whilst several other members of the com-
pany come on occasionally and encourage the two
principals to further exertions.
** * *
The clever but reckless comedians who
re-opened Melb. Alexandra in “ Mixed ” seem to
have wearied of the struggle. There was nothing
for the “ ghost ” to walk upon, so they gave him
up as a bad job. On Saturday some remnants of
Dampier’s former company took possession of the
sepulchre, and made it rumble witli the sad story
of “The Stolen Goddess.” This proved to be a
desperate imitation of “ Niobe,” by an unknown
author, and the performance reminded one of a
buffalo bringing himself up on a milk diet. Free
gifts to the value of £5O were available for dis-
tribution, but as nobody in particular took tickets
for these treasures on the opening night, the
philanthropic management was, at time of writing,
waiting for a chance to hurl them at an unwilling
world.
** » w
At Melbourne Opera House, the Alabama
Minstrels have reached their last week but one,
and produced their Grand Third Programme. One
programme is a good deal like another, however,
and the glory of the Alabamas fades. The Gaiety
and St. George’s Halls —not forgetting a few other
places—are open as usual; also, Max O’Rell is
exploring the various suburban town halls, accom-
panied by R. S. Smythe, and a variety of “ funny
amusements ” are on view at the Exhibition
Building. A ladies’ tug-of-war is a treat in store
at the last-named establishment, and there is
comfort in the announcement that the six com-
peting teams of fair ones will appear in different
costumes. If they all appeared in the same
costume it might burst with the strain, and then
the young men who came to cheer would remain
to blush.
** m *
On Tuesday next (22nd) Mrs. Brough will
take a complimentary benefit at the Bijou, appear-
ing in two or three of her strongest and most
diverse characters for the last time. The success
of this important occasion is already assured.
A gigantic committee of society personages,
including judges of the land and lights of
the Naval and Defence Forces, has been formed,
and the patronage of people like Lord and Lady
Hopetoun, Tom Bent, and the members of the
Ministry is promised. The fact that some of these
distinguished patrons are hopelessly insolvent and
theoretically incapable of supporting the drama
for the next hundred years, goes far to show the
respect in which Mrs. Brough is held. And it
goes further towards proving that hopeless insol-
vency doesn’t by any means spell ruin in Marvel-
lous Melbourne.
** * *
Maggie Moore finished her season at the
Royal, last Saturday, with one consecutive per-
formance of “M’liss.” In this wild variation on
“The Miner’s Daughter” there is plenty of room
for Maggie Moore to do her best, whilst some of
her company, notably John Forde, Diver, Athol-
wood and Chalmers, make a good show. A week
of “Forty-Nine” had previously served to atone
for the sins of “ Meg,” and why the mercurial
favourite should have chosen to start proceedings
with “ Meg” in preference to either of the other
dramas, is a mystery beyond all non-professional
comprehension. When the management put up
“ Meg ” they, in effect, put up a notice-board
warning the public not to trespass upon the pre-
mises a second time.
** * *
All this while the Gaiety Company persist
in flourishing with unabated fury at the Princess’.
A week of “Carmen” revealed nothing fresh
except a slight increase in splendour and a trifling
diminution in Marion Hood’s fatigue, yet the
multitude came early and always to revel in the
things of yore that were religiously accomplished
in the same old w 7 ay. Melbourne faith in the Gaiety
Company is founded upon a rock. On Saturday
the hill was “Joan of Arc,” the success of which
historic outrage was so undeniably complete that
the revival of “ Miss Esmeralda,” announced for
Saturday next, might probably be held over for
another fortnight without making much difference.
In any case, it is to be hoped that Alice Leamar’s
touching ballad concerning the lady who gave her
husband “beans,” will not pass away imme-
diately.
“NIOBE,” AT MELBOURNE BIJOU.
Datne Niobe lived long ago, and never fairly died,
She vexed the gods by weeping, so they had her petrified
The lady lay forgotten whilst the ages came and went,
Till a party, name of Tompkins (an artistic sort of gent),
Found her buried in some lava, or, it doesn’t matter
what—
Anyway, he was delighted with the treasure he had got.
He brought her up to London, though she weighed about
a ton,
And left her in the drawing-room of Peter Amos Dunn ;
A pretty thing was Niobe, with classic form and face—
A charming stony statue, standing upright in a case.
Now, this piece of petrifaction, through a servant’s over-
sight,
Was tickled by the wires of an incandescent light,
And a strong electric current travelled up and down the
stone,
Till it acted on the liver, and the figure gave a groan.
Alive again is Niobe, and delivered from her doom
A resuscitated heathen in a modern drawing-room ;
Yes, all alive and kicking after thirty hundred years.
Peter Amos changes colour and his soul is full of fears,
For he finds, in conversation, that she isn’t up to date,
But has ancient Greek opinions on his present married
state.
She calls him “dear Petramos,” looking calmly in his
eyes:
Well, need we say, the “ missus” takes the couple by sur-
prise ;
Then Pete, in desperation, almost crazy with distress,
Swears that Niobe has come to be his daughters’
governess.
Alas for poor “ Petramos,” when he ventures to deceive !
He is troubled by the stranger, and he wishes she would
leave.
But, where the deuce to send her! that’s the awful social
rub—
She’s as simple as a baby, or a barmaid in a pub.;
Her talk is all of Athens, and her manners are unique
(Yet we think he rather likes it when she cuddles him—in
Greek),
And she leads to sinful ructions that’s the worst of
having wives—
When a solemn British governess, the real one, arrives.
’Tis all the same to Niobe, her innocence is such
That nothing which might happen would alarm her very
much.
So she says she’s Peter’s sister, and the family seem
proud
(You never in your life met such an idiotic crowd) ;
The “ sister ” gag suffices their suspicions to allay,
Till the real British sister casts her shadow on the play.
The fate of Peter Amos for a period is in doubt,
And Niobe’s in danger of a sudden chucking-out,
When that party, name of Tompkins, comes to claim his
, precious stone,
And, finding it converted into human flesh and bone,
Explains this strange appearance of the “governess” from
Greece,
And takes her to his bosom, as the curtain falls on peace.
At Poverty Point.
Julius Herz once got a real nasty one. He was con-
ducting an oratorio for Melbourne Liedertafel just after
Julius Siede resigned his baton. At its close he remarked,
“Ah, you see the change of conductors has done no
harm; that says a great deal.” Silence for 10 seconds,
and then a voice, “It says a great deal for us! ”
David James, the incomparable “ Perkyn Middlewiok,”
is a Jew, as most people know. He is a nephew of the
Belascos, the famous pugilists of a past generation. One
of the brothers, Abe Belasco, having won some big battle,
was presented by his admirers with a piece of plate. The
famous “Chief Baron Nicholson” was the spokesman,
and, in addressing Abe, said it afforded him much gratifi-
cation to make the presentation, for several reasons.
First, because he was a brave and good fighter; and
secondly, because he was of the same religion as the great
Nazarene who died on the Cross. “ Abe,” he continued,
“ has lived on it.” This is one of Herbert Standing’s
stories.
A man who counts his cash by tens of thousands went
into the reserved stalls of a Sydney theatre, the other
evening, accompanied by a lady on a “pass for two,”
obtained from some bill-displaying tradesman. The
manager threatens to furnish the papers with a list of the
“ distinguished deadheads ” who have pestered him for
passes during the last five or six years.
■“Niobe” illustrates a curious reaction in favour of the
supernatural. Such a play would not have been tolerated
20 years ago, but observe how such novels as “Called
Back ” and Haggard’s “ She ” have taken with the public.
Why not send ’Ome a new Lilliputian Opera Co. with
Flo. Graupner and Vi. Varley in the lead? They’d make
splendid “precocious” kids.
W. J. Wilson is going for G. P. Carey with his mouth
open, because he believes George has infringed his rights
in producing “Mixed ” at Melbourne Alexandra. Is there
any law to debar a man from losing money over a play if
he wants to ?
Brough and Boucicault have only taken a three months’
lease—dating from Christmas—of the Sydney Criterion,
which tends to confirm the report that they intend to do
an American tour next year.
The Sydney Theatre Royal is ready for re-opening, but
Williamson and Musgrove don’t seem inclined to rush
into the breach and set the old house going again. “The
firm ” and Mrs. Moss have had some differences as to the
effect of the fire on the lease, and an Equity' suit to settle
matters is spoken of.
Rev. Owen, 8.A., disapproves of gesture in recitation—
“it reminds one of the stage !”—and therefore at Sydney
Eisteddfod awarded first prize to the girl who rendered
the prescribed selection with greatest immobility of face
and least action !
Russell, the lion-tamer in Fillis’ Circus, has a tough
contract every night. Twice when in Brisbane the
animals refused to perform, and Bussell beat a judicious
retreat. Even betting that Russell will yet be sw'ept up
with a broom.
Poor Wilmot Eyre, who died the other week in South
Africa, was the woodenest “juvenile lead” that W., G.,
and M. ever landed on these shores. He was equally
unemotional off the stage. Upon being introduced to a
BuUjBTIN man, who had written of him that “ If he were
put up to auction without reserve, he would have to be
bought in,” Wilmot expressed no sense of joy whatever.
Herbert Standing assures everybody that “Captain
Swift ” was better staged and better played in Melbourne
than it was at the Haymarket in London. He says that
Titheradge’s acting in particular was simply perfect.
That excellent actor, W. J. Sweeney, the “ priest ” and
" policeman ” of Her Majesty’s (Sydney), says that when
he “ tuck ” to the stage he made up his mind to remain
in the one city, if he could, and up to date he has very
nearly managed to do so. He has been just twenty years
on the boards, having first appeared at the old Vic. as the
policeman in a play by Garnet Walch.
Miss Bella Bashall, whose “Serpentine Dance” formed
the principal feature of the Soldene season at Sydney
Garrick, is a clever and versatile actress as well as a
graceful dancer, and many people would like to know in
which of the Christmas pantomimes she is to appear.
What a combination was Beaumont and Farley !
Mrs. Beere says there is the same difference of taste
between Melbourne and Sydney as between Manchester
and Liverpool. Then she distributes kudos: “ Mr. Oath-
•art is the most charming and considerate gentleman I
have ever met.” Now, James ! “ Patt.ie Browne is very
clever, of the type of Mrs. Bancroft," says Mrs. Beere.
Amies Beaumont is 52, Somewhat over 30 years ago
Lyster wheedled him out of business, and from the clutches
ff his pious family. Armes would decidedly have
made a figure oh the EpgfliSh ’stage, exactly filling the
ilace of Harrison; so Tong associated with Louisa Pyne,
but nothing could separate him from Lyster.
Thirty-two shoivS are now travelling Maoriland. Lohr
writes to say Bentley is doing well.
George Bignold may follow the run of Lionel Rignold
with “Othello”—a big production in which Walter
Bentley will be the lago.
Mr. Peel, of Sydney Mandoline, Banjo and Guitar
Society gives N.Q. B. a rough time in a late issue of E.
News'
* The Stolen Goddess,” imitation of “Niobe,” is
stupidly put on at Melbourne Alexandra. Such after-
games are suicidal.
Helen Mearns, the Australian contralto who is support-
ing Mine. Melba, is a daughter of Capt. Mearns, of the
ship Torridon, now lying at Circular Quay, Sydney. She
was born at sea.
According to Lionel Rignold, “ his nibs,” Charley
Warner, expressed a willingness to fill a London actors’
club up to the hat-brim with champagne if he had only his
(Rignold s) chance of coming to Australia.
It was Carlotta Patti who refused to sing at Manchester
until the bills announcing her as “the sister of Adelina
Patti’’.were taken down. A little Sydney actress is not
similarly actuated. Now that her more famous sister has
sought fresh footlights and green-rooms new, she drops
her old nom de theatre and shines with a borrowed lustre
as Miss Mollie, sister of Miss Pal tie Browne.
A female tug-of-war rehearsing in Melbourne. Dis-
gusting.
Mrs. Brough doesn’t like leg pieces. Her “ Niobe ”
costume is referred to as a display of understanding, but
nobody can see it. Inasmuch as Mrs. Brough is a very
fine woman, connoisseurs resent this violence to the
antique.
Wilson Barrett’s “Pharaoh” is a brilliant provincial
success, and will soon be witnessed in London. Doubtless
Rignold will get it. The character should suit him well.
The Prince of Wales always pays when he goes to the
theatre, taking a box at the regular charges. He hates
the slightest fuss, and was excessively annoyed, when
Johnnv Sheridan acted “Widow O’Brien” at London
Olympic, by the orchestra playing “God bless the Prince
of Wales” on his arrival. Wales says it is an insult to
the public for any notice whatever to be taken of him, by
the performers, at a place of amusement.
Haimes’ cockatoo, far transcending all rivalry as a
talkist, has been showing in Melbourne, en route for
Chicago.
Lawrence Cautley, we regret to hear, has had to give
up his American engagements, through nervous prostra-
tion. Nobody in Sydney, however, who knows his way
round, wonders at poor Lawrence being nervously pros-
trated, under all the circs, of the case.
Julian Hawthorne, describing a dancer, says in print:
“It was magnificent, but withal we were not entirely
happy. The human soul is infinite, whereas tights and
gauze skirts have their limitations.” Next time he’ll go
to see Mrs. Potter as Hero. She knows no limitations.
They now speak of “the ill-starred Royal” in Mel-
bourne. HI-“starred,” indeed! Just remember “The
Dancing Girl.”
The latest Bernhardt advertising story relates how a
persevering Journalist was at length admitted to interview
Sara, and found her in a vapour-bath with her head poked
through a hole in the cover.
The trouble with the Melbourne Town Hall organ is
that it requires a musician of about forty-horse-power to
manipulate it, and after dashing off a little thing, say
“ Yankee Doodle,” the operator is puffed like a Cup
winner, and has to be wrung out.
Some rather good figure work in plaster is shown on the
Sydney Lyceum Theatre front. The comedy and tragedy
masks on the centre panel appear uncommonly like casts
of the features of Dibbs and Parkes, while the Cupids
bear a striking resemblance, particularly about the noses,
to the younger members of Sir Henry's family. Phil.
Goatoher is at work at, the new house getting scenery
ready for “ Red Riding Hood.”
Taylor-Carrington Co. have returned to the Brisbane
Gaiety, after netting a cool thou, over their Northern
trip. Ella is a clear-headed little woman and can run a
show to pay even in these dull times.
Sig. Hazon perceptibly wearied of the Sydney Eistedd-
fod Festival before ten o’clock, and would impatiently
exclaim, if a competitor showed less form than his prede-
cessor, “Ring de bell! ring de bell!” He announced
winners briefly—“ You waste too much time. Numbare
4!” This almost equals the criticism of an adjudicator at
one of the Newcastle Eisteddfods: “ All choirs—expres-
sion, very good; tonality, damnably bad ; tempo, not
worth much ; winner, No. 2.”
Prof. Beaumont, of Fillis’ Circus, is credited with
holding the world’s record for life-saving.
When Fillis’ Circus was at Bundaberg (Q ), a foolhardy
indi\ lual named Moncrieff, for a wager, entered the
tiger’s cage, and came out in one piece.
The good old Hinglish climate soon caught hold of
Pattie Browne. At latest dates Pattie was Just recovering
from a sharp attack of bronchitis.
Niobe gives Mrs. Brough a congenial part for her grave
humour. This statuesque fun Just suits her. Sly humour
is rather more one of her fortes than stage wit, or over-
much pathos,
A snarleyow critic: “Dancers nowadays wear long
skirts to bide the inept movements of their half-trained
limbs.”
“Lillian, the little girl-shot, at Melbourne St. George’s
Hall, breaks a pipe in a man’s mouth.
The Melbourne gallerians swear that Billy Whitburn
would make a decided hit in Gaiety Burlesque.
Just ere his death the late Lord Lonsdale bought, for
£36,000, a pearl and emerald and diamond necklace, and
gave it to some fair unknown.
Walter Bentley was playing in Maoriland with a semi-
amateur Co., and most of the members had forgotten
their parts. One of them came on in a kilt that was
cooked up in a ridiculous fashion behind, and having
straightway lost the hang of his lines he waited for the
prompter. Just then there came to him the agonised
voice of Bentley from the wings, “Pull down your kilt,
man ; ” and concluding that this was the cue he solemnly
faced the audience and started in hollow tones: “Pull
doon yer kilt, mon ! ”
Who was the financier struck over the last Alexandra
escapade ?
“ Current Cash,” at one time a Melbourne Opera House
sensation, will shortly be staged by Miss Marion Willis,
assisted by a powerful oast, in the Richmond (Vic.) Town
Hall. Date of show, Deo. 7.
Armes Beaumont came out as a vocalist the year after
R. S. Smythe threw up Journalism for management, Just
30 years ago.
Signor Foli has soiled for Europe with W. H. Poole as
travelling companion. Poole’s Australian career was
peculiar. Previous to starting for this country he was an
old chorister in King’s College Chapel, Cambridge. He
knew nothing about Australian management, but had a
certain talent for inducing individuals Or syndicates to
engage the musical stars he had consigned to him. The
system would not work; and of the stars imported by
Poole, the three principal ones, Stanley and the Hallos,
was taken over by R. S. Smythe.
H.M.S. Howe, just wrecked in entering
the port of Ferrol, in Spain, carried guns of the
largest calibre, and a commander of the smallest,
apparently.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps-
M‘llwraith, who goes to the East to re-
cuperate, is so broken in health between hard
work and associating with the man who for-
merly denounced him inferentially as a swin-
dler, and has never publicly retracted the
groundless imputation, that it is very doubt-
ful whether he will long remain a factor in
Queensland politics. The other half of the Kana-
kilgriff, having turned himself inside out, helped
to rivet on to Queensland the chains of nigger-
slavery, handed over to the syndicates the fee
simple in perpetuity of scores of thousands of
acres of the best mineral lands in the world —
having given the N.S.W. border squatters long
renewals of their leaseholds on the “rabbit-
extermination-condition ” gammon, “ purged ” the
electoral rolls —having, in fact, eaten Queensland
flesh, bones, hoofs and hide, is going—to allow
himself to be dumped into the chief seat of iustice
with a salary of .£3500 a year.


TZHUE
NEWYORK LiFEINSU RANGE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
over all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BURROUGHES
—AND —
WATTS, lto
BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS on HAND,
Time Payments if Required.
S—JAMIESON LANE—S
SYDNEY.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Nov, 15, 1892,
My Dear Mooeabinda,—
The Fisheries’ Fair in Manly Pavilion wasn’t quite all
the advertisements painted it, For instance, fishwives
were supposed to sell wares from their boats, and one had
of lovely bazaar-girls catching crabs,
just to give an air of reality to the show—but, as a matter
of fact, the boats were formed into hollow squares, with
the vendoresses in the middle, on dry land. The effect of
the Fair was rather pretty—the boats full of odds and
ends, with the sails trimmed, too—but, after all, the
whole thing was the same old bazaar, with the soggy bun
and the cobbled cosey hanging on to sails instead of
counters. Outside, in the open, there was a weak display
of decorated dinner-tables, and one original spirit had
adorned hers with a lighted candle at each corner. The
idea was, of course, to give the dazzling effect the table
would have at night—but candles in broad daylight only
remind you of a wake.
Mrs. Burdekin, who opened the Fair, was turned out
very well in a swell frock of mustard colour trimmed with
palm-leaf velvet appliqup in brown and gold; the coat
lined with cigar-brown velvet over a blouse front of yellow
silk; small bonnet of yellow roses and black jet; Mrs.
(Dr.) Molyneux looked artistic in floral crepon with rustic
hat; Mrs. Harper in black brocade and lace with a cluster
of orchids—but the vendoresses were so comic-opera-ish
that one hardly noticed ordinary dresses. Pink, blue and
white with brown fishing-nets looped on to the shoulders
looked spruce ; but the most successful figure was an old
lady in dark-blue serge with a touch of crimson and a
sun-browned visage. She did look her part.
In one thing the turn-out was here and there tolerably
realistic. The voices of fishwives are not low and sweet.
Had the woman drowned at Coogee last week not been
identified I would bet a hat that she had been a laundress
or a landlady by profession just because of the erratic
way her clothes were marked. One article was branded
“Ruth Slater” —another “ L. Dean,” while the handker-
chiefs were labelled “E. S. Slater! ” Marking-ink doesn’t
seem to guarantee that your clothes will get home after
the wash. But the person who suicides in bor-
rowed clothes plays it lowest down of all, don’t you
think ?
The worst of being a Governor is that every good-
natured thing you do is bound to get into the papers—
just as if you were Tottie Redlegs pining for an ad. The
latest about Lord Jersey is that once he was walking down
William-street when he came on the familiar spectacle in
that vicinity of three blind men, in a wavering line, try-
ing to dodge over the road. As nobody did the good
Samaritan by them, his Ex. piloted them half-way across
when a bobby observed the imposing spectacle and went
to release the Governor, who, however, would conduct
his charge to the pavement. The best of it was that a
fashionable parson had passed by a moment before with-
out taking the faintest notice of the blind men ! Is the
kingdom of Heaven “ of such ? ”
The little storm in the teacup over the N.S.W. women’s
photographs to go to Chicago, to let the world see who’s
who this side of the streak, led to the display of much
irresistible logic. For instance, a lady remarked, in
almost the same breath : “ The photographer contributing
exhibits bad a right to choose her subjects.” ....
“It is obvious that her choice was confined to those who
had given her their patronage !” Edifying, isn’t it? But
(to vivisect the last coherent remark) supposing the
feminine of Tom, Dick, and Harry had called to be “took,”
would the photographer have sent them on to world-wide
fame just because “her choice was confined?” &c. And
was it pure luck that all the members of “ committee
XII.” and one or two of the better-advertised of Sydney
philanthropists happened to get taken in the nick of
time ?
Fashionable Australians whom fate cruelly forces into
mourning in the hot summer should rejoice to learn that
the Princess of Wales and her daughters modified their
mourning for the Duke of Clarence when they struck hot
weather somewhere or other. With black serge skirts
they sported black and white checked silk blouses, and
they also wore dresses of shot serge—black with fine lines
of gold. After that, let’s hope the depressing summer
spectacle of the lady in stiff and wiry crape, with the red
dust hanging in her rosettes, will haunt us no more.
The overworked civil servant is sometimes a creature
of resource. The other day a Sydney O.S. said he felt he
hadn’t much longer to live, and applied for permission to
go and see his aged mother. Leave was granted, and the
chief shook hands with him sympathetically—one D natu-
rally nice to a person qualifying for corpse-ship. Next day
the man on leave was seen in company with a lady who
might have been his mother, viewed in a Gilbert and
Sullivan light, but not otherwise. She had,‘golden hair,
dressed d la crow's-nest, and her affectionate sou was
buying oysters and porter for his ma.
It isn’t often that Governments stoop to regulate
feminine fashions, but one reads that in Vienna they are
trying, on sanitary grounds, to prohibit the wearing of
long-trained dresses in the streets. The narration of
something I saw the other day should be a life-long
lesson to everybody on the long-dress question. A. woman
was peacocking up George-slreet whose suspender had
slipped and hauled her dress up quite half a yard !
What do you think is the chief cause of the friction
between Madame, the manageress, and Miss Utility ?
Dress. It’s this way. “I’m going to play Lady Isabel,
first act, in pink silk —you’d bettet have pale-green,”
says the manageress, and Miss Utility (who hasn’t much
wages to waste in frocks) gets a gteen obediently. And
then Madame veers and decides On a green gown, and
orders little Utility to buy a pink on 6; And then the
hair-pulling begins as a general thing.
Ever since the unedifying Victorian Customs-house fuss
over Lady Loch’s diamonds, the retiring Governor’s wife
has fought shy of being testimOnialised by her luvih’ sub-
jects! Lady Carington refused to allow the women of
N.S.Wi to contribute their nimble shilling to a farewell
offering, and Lady Hamilton, who is leaving Tasmania,
has written a flowing letter to Mrs. Premier Fysh setting
forth that as “ money was wanted for sickness and dis-
tress,” she must decline to form a bad precedent by
accepting any presentation from the women of Tasmania*
And now the bereaved denizens of the land of raspberry-
jam are denied the opportunity of expressing their grief
at Lady H.’s departure by presenting [her with a silver-
plated— er—sandwich-box.
It’s quite time presentations died out—since they really
don’t mean anything in particular. We are so tired of
the spectacle of the unctuous “representative” man
getting a silver-mounted dressing-case and a slobbering
address one week and going to gaol the next in the most
natural way in the world ! The presentation dodge has
got such a white-wash-needed-here flavour about it that
the fact of fellow-citizens suddenly subscribing half-a-
crown a piece to give you a new tea-pot makes you more
an object of suspicion than anything else.
If His Ex. isn’t too fearfully and wonderfully official
to smile at his own blarney, then Gov. Jersey must
have enjoyed his creamy speech at the butter-factory
affair at Newcastle (N.S.W.), last week, “He had been
' in India, and there were many places there remarkable
for very inferior butter. He doubted if it had any equal
here. He should be glad to send a few sample cases to
one or two governors in India, in order that they might
taste some of the New South Wales butter. And once
they tasted it, he felt confident that they would soon give
up the limp, white-looking stuff which did duty in that
country.” All butter! But is it probable (viewing it
after the banquet) that such a howling swell as an Indian
governor uses the “ limp, white-looking stuff” of the
country, so long as “ Prime Dosset ” can be fetched along
in the blessed refrigerator? It is only fair to Northern
intelligence to say that the buttery speech was received
with “renewed laughter,”
The marriage of Colonel Spalding’s eldest daughter,
Violet, to Lieutenant Cox-Taylor, of N.S.W. Artillery, took
place at the N.S.W. Barracks, on 9th inst., in the presence
of a few intimate friends. Miss Spalding looked very well
in the trying white vestments of incipient matrimony,
and went away in grey and pink, after cutting the
wedding-cake with hubby’s sword.
Apropos the effective “sword” business that the mili-
tary bride wouldn’t omit for worlds—it would be interest-
ing if the brides of other implement-hampered professions
followed suit. The artist’s bride might work on the
crummy side with a palette-knife. The doctor’s alter ego
could easily hack the bun in twain with an operating saw.
The editor’s new editress might snip off great junks with
hubby’s shears ; and the naval man’s inamorata would
have a smiling billet getting wedges off it with an anchor
gracefully used as a pickaxe. The military bride has
flashed her bare blade too long—it’s time the weapons of
other professions got a little wedding ad.
Weddings remind me of a little story told by a parson
and illustrating the deep ignorance of some bush-whackers
as to how much formality is necessary to a legal marriage.
Miss Selector had become Mrs. Rail splitter, and in the
middle of the ensuing festivities the bridegroom ap-
proaohed the parson and said in a whisper, “ Is it neces-
sary for me and Liza to go awiy ? ”
The fascinating Mr. Neild (he has adopted a frock-coat
of very severe black since his posing as Virtue’s knight,
but the fascinating mustivey is still alluringly waxed d la
Mephisto.) must feel sorry about the way Parliament
jumped on his motion that the “Vice Suppression Com-
mittee ” should make visits of inspection to, and hold
enquiries at, such places as the committee should con-
sider desirable—(undesirable ?). What a treat the goody-
goodies—the male Bible-women, as one might call ’em—
have lost by Parliament deciding that even a Tottie’s red-
blinded residence is her castle, into which nobody can
burst without knocking 1 The difference between sup-
pressing vice at a committee-meeting and suppressing it
at Delilah’s private address is like the difference between
flat beer and champagne, or that between Zola plain and
Zola illustrated. But Parliament is an unsympathetic
aggregate, always ready to take all the fun out of the
path of the devoted social reformer.
On dit that a certain church which is constantly being
bolstered up by bazaars, &0., doesn’t exactly have its fortune
made, no matter how many smoking caps sell, or how
many fat men go “on" the spinning jenny (as is the
humorous manner of inviting them.) At a floral fete
lately held, though the attendance alone must have come
to about £ ICO the church only got £6O from the whole
thing! This floral f6te system appears to be quite a
golden goose to some of the people who “assist.” While
the State is regulating the quack banks, and so on, it
had better appoint official auditors to church-bazaars.
The glory into which a certain section of womanhood
invariably bursts after a protracted bazaar-season is
absolutely Shebaic.
A muzzle should be worn at night by gay Lotharios.
In a recent Sydney divorce-suit it transpired that the wife
discovered who had supplanted her in one effort simply
because hubby called out “ Ethel! ” twice in his sleep. As
he had been on tour with a theatrical Co., Madame calmly
went through the list till she came to an Ethel, and,
without wasting words over the matter, made her the peg
to hang a divorce-suit on. But literary people must be
exempted from the operation of the “Ethel” rule.
Everyone remembers the great Henri Murget’s pretty
little story of how the grisette committed suicide because
she had found a leaf in her lover’s writing, which had
flown out of the window, containing a flaming love-
apostrophe to another woman. And yet the fatal leaf
was, after all, only part of a novel which he was writing.
Nothing is new under the sun.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
There was a bona-fide cheer for Donald Wallace
when Titan won his race on Oaks Day. The owner of
Carbine deserves well of holiday race-goers. It would
pay them to purchase, by public subscription, some of the
few good horses that are now run “crooked ” and make
Donald a present of them.
* # *
Milkman Urquhart had had enough of owning
a racehorse, and talked of selling Glenloth at the end of
the V.R.O. meeting. He wanted the price of the horse to
pay its expenses with, they say, and would have jumped
at an offer of £5OO three weeks ago. Glenloth’s victory
strikes one as being a Satanic scheme to inveigle other
milkmen into buying blood-stock, and losing all their
cows on the turf.
* * *
Glenloth, when he first ran in Melbourne, was
owned by a syndicate of four, including two milkmen,
Urquhart and Bland. Squabbling among the partners
led to the horse being auctioned among them, a stipula-
tion being made before the sale that the buyer was to let
the others know when the prad was “on the job” in
any particular event. The horse fell to Urquhart for
£4OO. Bland, mindful of the arrangement made, sent a
note to Urquhart the night before the Cup, inquiring
what show the horse had. The reply came back—“ Don’t
think he has the slightest chance.” Bland keeps this as a
memento of the Cup, and sorrowfully exhibits it to bis
friends,
* # #
Panton, P.M., after hearing the cases against
Melbourne tote-proprietors, wanted to know how it hap-
pened that the small fry were captured, at one swoop,
and had their money annexed, whilst the bigger betting
fry were seldom interfered with, and their cash was
always held sacred by the police. He might have asked
why the alleged tobacco shops (which are all “baoka”
and no “to”) had their doors closed on the night the
totes were raided, just as though the police had warned
the Ikeys, Sammies, and Barneys of what was about to
occur,
* « *
After all, there is no occasion to grumble at the
V.R.C.’s natural desire (which can’t be granted) to fence
in the Flemington Flat and make a trifling charge for
admission. Nobody ever wants to go there except to look
at races, and the “ people ” were not robbed of any rights
when the club took possession of a dreary swamp and
made it into a show place. It is common to speak of the
“ poor flattites ” as though they were being badly treated,
but they are no more victimised than dead-heads who get
orders for the gallery of a theatre and have to sit at the
extreme back. The cry was recently raised that the free
space at Flemington had been annexed by the V.R.0.,
whereas Byron Moore had only taken the liberty of laying
it down w:th buffalo grass in the interests of visitors who
appreciate small attentions. Now that new grass is pro-
vided somebody writes to the papers to complain that
the starting board isn’t turned round towards the Flat.
This sample malcontent evidently considers himself in-
jured by the Y.R.C.’s indifference to those who don’t
pay a cent for their sport, and who ought, in mercy, to
he discouraged from coming down to lose the few shillings
they have in the world.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re “A. J. Miller,” of 40
Hunter-street, Sydney, there seems some reason to believe
him identical with one “F. A. Bruce,” who ran a con-
sultation, at Brisbane, on Caulfield and Melbourne Cups
in ’9l. I was a subscriber to Bruce’s Consultation. Of
course, I got nothing. I was surprised, a tew weeks ago,
to receive a letter from “A. J. Miller” enclosing notices
of his consultations for the current year, and I fail to see
how “A. J. Miller” could get hold of my name and
address unless per medium of the books of “F. A. Bruce.”
Under these circumstances, I am led to believe that “A.
J. Miller ” and “F. A. Bruce ” are one and the same
person.—Trotter Bethune, Moonee Ponds, Vic.
# * *
Melbourne Herald still crows over its tip,
Paris for Caulfield. But in 63 races prior to the Derby
the Herald tipped only seven winners; and of the 63
winners, 34 were not mentioned for places.
# # #
Ten thousand pounds added money for next
Melbourne Cup is apparently out of the question. The rain
spoilt the Y.R.C.’s November harvest, and the autumn
prospects are not promising. Now that people begin to
regard Flemington as a Paradise for “cronk” owners,
where the authorities never notice anything wrong
(because some of ’em generally know when to expect it
and bet accordingly), the attendance will surely decline.
Even as the public are “off” financial investment since
the Government declared itself on the side of swindles, so
are they getting off races where a few influential
“ directors ” cut up the cash among themselves and are
never brought to justice. The Stand and Hill arrange-
ments may be improved at every meeting, but the pad-
dock “ arrangements ” want attending to without delay.
• * *
John Pile, the S.A. sport who has purchased
Pygmalion from VV. R. Wilson for £630, is a splendid
judge of jumping-horses, and has an idea Pygmalion will
turn out a ’chaser. Pile has made a lot of money out of
Mahdi and Confidence.
* # *
At a recent Adelaide meeting the totalisator
laid 100 per cent, longer odds than the bookmakers. An
investment of £1 on every horse in the tote would have
returned a profit of £27. The same investment with the
bookies would have resulted £l6 to the bad. No wonder
the Adelaide books complain that the “tote” has killed
all but ante-post betting.
# # »
The Argus says “ the public have come to the
conclusion that it is unwise to back Paris and Bungebah
for the same event.”
# » *
At present Mr. Bob Sevier Sutton calls his
wife an “ Ailesbury duck.” But wait till Robert has had
some bad nights at “ hazard.”
# # m
Billy Little, M.P., strongly supports the pro-
posed Q. 2J per cent, totalisator-tax, which, he says, will
yield £15,000 ; a similar tax in Victoria, he claims, would
return £lOO,OOO. Totalisators, asserts Billy, are con-
ducted quite as honestly as church bazaars. He attended
a church bazaar, once, with a friend: “We went in for a
raffle for a prize worth about £lO. There were a lot of
members, and to save time it was agreed we should have
only one throw each. My friend threw 18, and we went
away satisfied that he would be the winner. By-and-by
we went back to get the prize ; but we didn’t get it. We
were told that the parscn had thrown 19. Ever since that
I have put my bit of stuff on the totalisator.”
# * #
More than one Australian accident assurance
company refuses to take risks on cyclists’ lives.
* * *
The Australian public this year subscribed
£211,000 to the six chief Sydney sweepstakes on Mel-
bourne and Caulfield Cups.
* * »
Glenloth’s tail was plaited in the Cup race, so
he carried home no weight of mud.
e • •
One Australian newspaper gang makes a
tidy bit by promoting “schlenter” prize-fights under the
rose, puffing them in its organs, and giving to the
wretched creatures who “perform ” in the ring a fraction
of the “gate.” “ Mostly fools !”
* #: #
The V.R.O. will be between £7OOO and £BOOO
below last year on the Spring takings, and scarcely realise
anything. Last year was the worst for 10 years, with
£8770 profit. The highest was 1888, with £25,355. Added
money Melbourne Cup : —lBB2, £5OO ; ’B3, £lOOO ; ’B6,
£2000; ’B7, £2600 ; ’BB, £8000; ’B9, £5OOO ; ’9O, £lO,OOO.
# * *
Slack, the Bananaland champion sculler, also
holds the record in the Northern Province for killing,
skinning, and cutting up bullocks. He is a man of
immense muscular development, and won the Victorian
champion sculls on Nov. 9 by nearly 100 yards, which he
could easily have doubled. His weight is given as list
61b., but he looks quite a stone heavier.
* * *
Coningham, the ex-Brisbane crack, was the
hero and clown of the Senior v. Colt match on Sydney
Domain. Coningham’s monkeyish tricks and antics are
peculiar to Brisbane. There is no Melbourne or Sydney
decorum on the cricket-fields of the barbarous North.
# # #
Now that the Melbourne Cup is over an Aus-
tralian citizen can get his hair singed with comparative
impunity for the first time in, at least, two months. Any
man who gets his hair singed in the two months pre-
ceding the Cup is a fool, and next door but one to a
suicide. The resultis always the same. The same barber
man lights his taper, makes a remark about the weather,
and drops a quantity of hot grease down his customer’s
back. Then an acquaintance always comes in to tell him
about the latest betting, and the barber proceeds to talk
to him, and in his excitement he presently leans the
burning taper up against the patient’s ear, and his hair
goes off like a bush fire. By the time the conflagration
has been put out there is nothing left oh the sufferer’s
skull but a few stumps and ashes, and his fire-blasted
cranium looks like a view of the “Bad Lands” of
Nebraska, or an agricultural area in Gehenna. The
present writer had his hair singed two weeks before the
Cup, and the boiling-grease-mark on his spine is there
yet.
# * #
“ Trumpator ” Cook, of Adelaide, is now
“Terliuga,” of the Australasian.
# * #
Mr. Ben. Bailey, the well-known veterinary
surgeon, of Caulfield, *who shares with trainer Carrnody,
Glenloth’s trainer, the credit of turning out the horse so
fit in the Cup, is dead. Bailey owned many racehorses in
his time, the best of which was Dundas,
# # *
The paragraph in The Bulletin of October 29,
concerning a Sydney “tote.” man whose list of sub-
scribers does not add up correctly, has no reference to
“Leger” of King-street. The Bulletin has no desire to
guarantee “Leger’s” tote more than any other, but the
additions on his list are correct at all events.
* # *
One of two conclusions was inevitable with
regard to the Martin Denny-Griffo so-called fight at the
Darlinghurst Hall, Sydney. The affair was either a
sham, orGriffo has utterly lost his old-time phenomenal
form. For 22 rounds the pair made not even a pretence
of fighting. The next three rounds (the umpire having
announced that if no decision was come to he would call a
draw on the 25th round) were a bit more lively. Fully
3000 victims paid for admission to the miserable farce,
and it speaks well for the lawanorder of Sydney fight-
goers that the immense audience took its gruel like
a lamb. Denny fought with his hands open, and palmed
Griffo every blow. The latter had Denny bailed in a
corner all through, but he merely “fiddled” whilst Denny
patted him with his open left hand. Such exhibitions
sound the death - knell of professional boxing. The
refereeing was as poor as the lighting.
* # *
As a correspondent remarks, the most disgusting
part of this barefaced so-called fight was the “puff”
account of it which appeared in a certain weekly sporting
paper.
* * #
In great contrast to the Griffo-Denny farce, was
the genuine set-to between Con Sullivan and Jim Quigley
at “Yankee Sam’s.” Quigley never lost the lead
obtained at the start, and* in the 21st round he knocked
the plucky Sullivan completely to a standstill.
# * *
Taking a line from the defeat of George Godfrey
by Joe Choynski in 12 rounds, Joe Goddard, the twice-
Conqueror of Choynski, is warmer goods than most people
think him.
# * *
H. H. Lambton, of Sydney, on 200yds., made
an easy win of the Austral Wheel Race at Melbourne on
Saturday. The first prize for the event is a solid £2OO.
• * #
Nancy Hanks has reduced the trotting record
to 2.4. Some idea of the clean manner in which Nancy
moves may be gained from the fact that she trots with-
out boots of any description.
# * *
Hanlan’s challenge to row Stanbury for the
world’s championship quite reminds us of old times.
* # *
Peter Jackson is the only big boxer who hag
not threatened to annex the championship if Corbett will
not box at once. Peter says Corbett is quite right in
standing off for the present, for if it had been his luck to
fight and beat Sullivan he would certainly have played
the exhibition game for all it is worth before fighting
again. It is this sort of thing that makes the gallant
Jackson such a favourite the world over.
* * *
At Germanton, N.S.W., several men have been
fined for racing on Sunday. In old Ireland, the writer
has seen a priest’s cob, with the parish clerk up, win a
saddle and bridle at a Sabbath meeting.
* * *
A certain Sydney parson had an old black horse
with an unsightly white fore foot. He sold it, and for a
week after he hunted for a suitable new one without
success. At last he picked one out of a sale yard, paid for
it, and brought it home. “Hang me,” said the groom,
“ if the parson ain’t sold his old ’oss for £lO and bought it
back for £3o—paid 20 quid for clippin’ ’im and paintin’
his near fore leg 1” Is this a paraphrase of “ The Banjo’s’’
ditty. “ Our New Horse ” ?
» * •
Grimwade, M.L.O. (Vic.), says there are 2000
bookmakers in Melbourne, who “ get two millions a-year
out of the pockets of a gullible public.”
A legal manager at Bright (Vic.) has the
misfortune to be afflicted with the name Pennie
Hunter.
At the Sydney Freetrade meeting, George
Reid orating. A voice—“ Why don’t you kiss
Parkes ? ”
The steamer Lansdovvne Tower brings to
Port Augusta, S.A., 350 camels from Kurrachee,
for use in Central Australia.
Mrs. Parnell insolvent (only as executrix
of her late husband ?). What Parnell did with his
money is an inscrutable mystery.
Mr. Fred. Ward, late editor of Sydney
D.T., will probably be appointed secretary of the
new N.S.W. Department of Irrigation.
A week or two after marriage, Carlyle
wrote to his mother : “ I suffer considerably from
the agitation and disquietude of the change.”
“Love and courtship,” says a modern
philosopher, “are only the means by which Nature
tricks us into conjugality for ends of her own.”
In other words tender glances, coquettish turns
of the figure, whispers in the moonlight, and
woman's evil genius for exciting jealousy are the
natural causes of the birth-rate. The jealousy in-
fluence is, of course, the most potent. Who would
be a father but for the desire to prevent another
fellow (and a confounded cad of a fellow he always
is) from obtaining a vested interest in Angelina's
baby ? Not one young man in ten.


Wolfe’s Schnapps— Soothing and invigorating.
Wolfis’s Schnapps.— Pure, Palatable, Perfect.
Beware of Frauds, Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is
the best invigorator out.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
PULVERIAOHEE'S
“ ELECTRICITY IS
LIFE.”
WORLD-
FAMED
ELECTRIC BELTS
Have received Testimonial* from THREE PHYSICIANS to HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN, the ACADEMIE I)E MEDECINE
ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON :
of Paris, and the
following members of the
Dr. C. lIANDFIELD JONES, St. Mary’s Hospital
Dr. GOLDING BIRD, Guy’s Hospital
Dr. JONATHAN PEREIRA, London Hospital
Dr. T. W. NUNN. Middlesex Hospital
Dr. R. M. LAURENCE, Great Northern Hospital
Dr. J. R. REYNOLDS, University Hospital
Dr. R. QUAIN, Bronipton Hospital
Dr. H. ALLBUTT, Leeds Hospital
Dr. JAMES WILSON, Worcester Infirmary
®i r £, I J AR 1 LRS LOCOCK, Physician to Her Majesty
Sir WILLIAM FERGUSSON, Physician to Her Miiestv
S.r HENRY HOLLAND, Physician to Hen' Majesty '
Sn L. 11. LTLV EKING, Physician to 11.R.H. the Prince of Wales
And numberless other Medical Men.
‘X* la o Solo
Pamphlets, Price Lists, full particulars and advice given with pleasure on application to
as. atralian iLgents : TF5 1 " r f~" t&T-
-402, 474 AND 587 UEURGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHIPHAM
Write j it is no tvoulj'e to answer questions,
Personal I tems.
Epps is the man with the Ass : he pleases
nobody.
Boyd D. Morohead threatens matrimony
—with a squatter’s widow.
Clara Amy Parker is a sister-in-law of
Carr-Boyd, the classic-featured explorer.
A grandson of George Stephenson, of loco-
motive fame, died recently in Horsham (Vic.)
hospital.
Murderer Bertrand, now in the 27th year
of h' s incarceration, is the “father” convict of
N.S. Wales.
Neither Matthew Davies nor his brethren
showed up at President Macßain’s gorgeous
obsequies.
Robert Homburg, Attorney-general, is
the one man in the Downer (S.A.) Ministry who
doesn t wear a belltopper.
For defending the Broken Hill strike
leaders, “Jack” Want received =£3oo on his
brief, with ten-guinea refreshers.
Alfred Austin, mentioned as the coming
English poet laureate, is, we hear, a brother of
Mr. Henry Austin, of Sydney.
Among the passengers for Sydney by the
Oroya was A. J. Suckling-Baron. One of the
Ganngton babies come back, mebbe.
i A Melbourne man who has heard Mark
J wain accuses Max O’Rell of striving after the
American’s style and just missing it.
F. G. Monger (one of the six families)
just elected M.L.A. for York, W. A., is said to be
the first Australian native legislator of the second
generation.
( Another of Mr. Fitchett’s Review of
Reviews’ blunders as to Australian writers is to
refer to Marcus Clarke as “Clark.” This it has
done thrice.
Perhaps one of the most remarkable letters
ever written by a litterateur of the first rank is
one of De Quincey’s, in the possession of Sir
Henry Parkes.
Barlow, M.P., the Balaam’s ass of Queens-
land Parliament, lately advised his brethren “to
avoid everything that wears a gown—lawyer,
priest, or woman.’
The Age on Wales ; “There is a general
feeling that the Prince has not made the most of
his high opportunities.” The same might be
written of David Syme.
Alexander Britton, late editor of the
N.S.W. Records, died very poor. Superfluous
information this : he had given the best years of
his life to journalism.
Gresley Lukin, erstwhile “king” of
Queensland journalism, goes to Maoriland for
health’s sake, and as special correspondent to
dailies in three provinces.
B. R. Wise’s latest book is dedicated to
“Sir Henry Parkes, an honoured chief and
friend.” Parkes says he is Wise’s chief just so
long as it suits him - (Wise).
“Bob” Lowe’s English personal estate
totalled £15,261. When is the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to collect duty on the deceased viscount’s
valuable real estate in Sydney ?
Is N.S. Wales to be forever dominated by
Smiths? First, the Smith political, Gov. Smith ;
then the Smith ecclesiastical, Bishop Smith; then,
the Smith nautical, Admiral Smith.
Barriskill and Eadie, a firm of Bundaberg
(Q.) newspaper-proprietors, have been nicknamed
by their loathsome contemporary, Barrenskull and
Idiot. This is pretty good for Bundaberg.
Melbourne Presbyterian Moderator’s
eulogium of Sir Jamie M'Bain; “He was a
trusted servant of the church, and its financial
adviser. Blessed are they that die in the Lord.”
The late Sir John Robertson, of N.S.W ,
used to put letters in the lining of his hat, to be
opened when he had leisure. Quite a lot of
important official correspondence was found un-
opened in his old hats after his death.
S. M. Herald falls into a curious error.
It says the names of the Mount Rennie murderers
are not inscribed on the scaffold beam at Darling-
hurst gaol. Now, as a simple fact, the Mount
Rennie murderers are still unhanged.
The N.S.W. Treasurer says he doesn’t
mean to fill the office of provincial historian for
the present—probably not during this year.
Which, being interpreted, probably means that he
is being worried to death by applicants.
We are told that one of the Crown
witnesses at the trial of the Broken Hill strike-
leaders, who told a somewhat yarnful story, is an
individual who did a couple of years’ hard labor
for slandering the wife of a S.A. politician.
If Sir Charles Dilke has (vide cablegram)
bought up the Pall Mall Gazette it will be
interesting to watch the process of rebuilding the
fallen moral character of the new boss in the
journal that formerly danced upon his ruins.
Purves, Q.C., and Salomons, Q.C., once
met in court down Albury way. Things got hot
after a while, and Salomons screamed his estimate
of Purves thus : “ Here’s a young man from Vic-
toria who has neither law, sense, nor manners.”
Ex-Governor Loftus writes of his wife :
To her I owe 45 years of happiness, unsullied by a
cloud. She has been the partaker of my joys and my
sorrows, and her affection for myself and devotion to my
children have been a constant source of happiness and
gratitude.
Sir James M’Bain, President of the Vic-
torian Legislative Council, died of “liver com-
plaint.” But the real cause was worry, conse-
quent on the collapse of values in pastoral invest-
ments and securities he had recommended to his
friends.
Sydney Evening News depicts President
Harrison as a carcase-butcher with an udder
under his chin, while something very like the
Telegraph portrait of Cleveland appears
as the picture of baby-farmer Makin in the same
days News.
The handsome monument over Deniehy’s
grave at Waverley is still inscriptionless. Dailey,
who lies a few feet away, has a handsome memorial
over him, which notifies that he was a “ Queen’s
Counsel and a Privy Councillor,” and invoking
the prayers of the faithful.
Dr. Ren wick, N.S.W. Executive Com-
missioner at Chicago, who, at latest, was hurry-
ing back to London (where titles are dispensed),ls
said to have taken with him from Sydney a draft
for .£lO,OOO, of his own personal money, which he
means to spend in hospitality.
Haddon Chambers, whose full name is
Charles Haddon Spurgeon Chambers, comes, as
may be supposed, from strict Wesleyan stock, and
was trained in the way he should have gone, but ran
on the rails. His people were horrified when he
to ® fc , age 7 acquaintances. When his play of
Ihe Idler was produced at Sydney Garrick,
with Cartwright and Olga Nethersolo in the lead-
ing parts, the interest felt by his relations over-
came thCir life-long religious scruples, and they
were lured, for the first time, to the play, which
is understood to have met with their approval.
The oldest Adelaide
citizen is “Newhaven”
Symonds, who came out
with Colonel Light, who
laid out the S.A.
capital city. Symonds
teaches book-keeping,
although 86 years old.
There is an ugly
rumour about the rela-
tions of a certain high
Northern educational
official with certain lady
teachers.
Alfred Deakin says
he only twice acted as a
reporter. On one occa-
sion news came to the
Aoe that an important
mass meeting was being
held in Collingwood.
All the reporters were
out, and the sub. asked
Deakin if he would do
it. “Certainly,” said
Alfred, as he whistled
a cab over. He drove
about Collingwood for
two hours without find-
ing any meeting. He
wrote a report all the
same, but the sub.
wouldn’t pass it—“ just
a little too vague, Mr.
Deakin.” His second
offence was when Gaun-
son got strangers ordered
out of the House one
night when Gillies was
about to make an im-
portant speech. The
Chief Sec. took notes as
well as he could nob
being a good phono-
grapher—and afterwards
dictated a report to the
pressmen in the Minis-
terial room. Gillies, who
stood by, declared that
the report was a far
better speech than he had
made.
Sir John Morphetfc,
who died in Adelaide last
week, was present at the
proclamation of S. Aus-
tralia on 28th Dec, 1836,
and owned the first horse
introduced into the Pro-
vince. Sir John was
Speaker of S.A. Legisla-
tive Council as far back
as ’5l. He arrived a
poor emigrant, and made
a big fortune.
Treasurer See (N.S.W.) says it doesn’t
pay to be a Minister—reckoning all up, he is
poorer to-day than when he took office. John
surely can’t have counted in the assets his earl-
sponsored baby’s “monniker!” “ Villiers John
Grafton Jersey”—why, it’d fetch five thou, at
auction any day.
Fitchett runs both the Southern Cross,
a weekly religious rag, and the Melbourne
Herald, champion of busted boomers. The
Herald came out with an up to date Cup edition,
and the Cross with a whining, sanctimonious
protest against the whole wicked week of racing.
God and Mammon !
What really convicted Sleath was the
unionistic interception of the whisky which was
being sent to the non-unionists in the mines. One
of the jurymen remarked that he could stand the
picketing and intimidation, but he was determined
to put his foot down with a firm hand on all
attempts to stop a man’s grog.
Parkes shifts from Hampton Villa, Bal-
main, shortly. It is said he won’t remove the
menagerie. In that case we’d suggest to the
owner of the premises to have a wax figure of the
statesman witli a phonograph in its innards stuck
on the_ verandah. The whole show would draw
for a time at a shilling a head.
Capt. Woods, veteran in the Tasmanian
steamboat trade, has slipped his cable, and gone
aloft. Here is a man who in over 30 years coast-
ing never lost a ship, never made a mistake. He
was a Captain Gray, of the Great Britain, in his
way, and had the key of numberless homes in
Launceston, Hobart, and Melbourne.
The wine-merchant of an eminent states-
man, who is now devoting his leisure chiefly to the
interests of posterity, gives Sir Hairy the credit
of paying his liquor-bill punctually every month.
Still burgundy at <£6 per doz. is his elixir vitce,
and, thinking of his legislative and other
triumphs, he fondly refers to the bottles as his
“ enabling acts.”
Sir Julius Yogel, now able to walk with-
out crutches, is about to figure in the London
insurance world, and the success of the Maoriland
Government Insurance Office is being trumpeted
forth as a proof of what a wonderful man he is.
One thing is certain : if the Great Julius becomes
connected with any company, new or old—he will
pile up the expenses sky-high.
The character of the late President of the
Victorian Leg. Council is told in the anecdote of
the cheery man who met him on the steps of
Parliament House. “ All hail! Maoßain,” said
this harmless jester. The President fixed a dull,
unmirthful eye upon his acquaintance, and replied,
“It’s ‘all hail! Macbeth!’ I’m thinkin’.” He
was verra Scottish, was James.
Max O’Rell on Melbourne Cup (in the
Argus) is painfully stale and uninteresting.
Moreover, Max is palpably writing of a Cup other
than the one he saw, for he makes no reference to
the rain. Likewise, his jocular remark, that
“members of the Legislative Council, after passing
AN UNEXPECTED ALTERNATIVE.
MIGISTRATE (examining small boy as to his competency to take an
oath): “Do you know, my boy, what it is to tell the
truth?”
BOY: “Yessir.”
MAGISTRATE : “Do you know any place where boys go to who don't
tell the truth?”
BOY : “Yessir ; hell, sir.?”
MAGISTRATE : “And do you know any other place where you’ll go if
you do tell the truth?”
BOY: “Yessir, purgatory, sir."—(Sicorn.)
a severe Bill against betting, had adjourned for
Cup week,” is inconsistent with the fact that the
Council didn’t pass a Bill.
James Bonwick, the veteran Australian
historiographer, has just made, in London,
another important discovery to our early
days—Ex-Governor Phillip’s correspondence after
his return to England. Bonwick is the most
brilliant exemplar young Australian litterateurs
can have. Success has crowned him ! For, look
you, after a long lifetime of scholarly effort, he
draws a screw of fifteen bob a day !
The just-deceased Mrs. Wise (widow of
the late Mr. Justice Wise, of N.S.W., and mother
of Mr. B. R. Wise) was sister to Lieut. A. J. Smith
—vyho represented Castlemaine in Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly in the sixties. When J. D.
Wood and £ £ Smith came to blows over that
“quack advertisement” speech, the Lieutenant
was appointed arbitrator—he would nossibly have
been second had the affair come to a duel—for J.
D. Wood,
Theo. P. Pugh, police-magistrate of Bunda-
berg (Q.), where his planter proclivities had made
him most unpopular, has been shifted to Been-
leigh. Yet Pugh was once the hope of the
Queensland Radicals. He was the first newspaper-
editor in Queensland, and his advocacy of separa-
tion was so warm that he was once imprisoned on
a charge of libel on the then Government. He
was a prominent member of the first Queensland
Parliament, and founded “Pugh’s Almanac.”
When the witty Lord Rosebery first took
to politics Lord Salisbury cast about him for a
youthful Tory lord to play off as a counterfoil
against him. His choice fell upon Lord Hope-
toun, who was credited with the possession of a
good deal of talent, and considerable aptitude as a
speaker. When put to the test, however, it was
found that he had been very much overrated, and
that he didn’t carry guns enough for t’other
Scotchman, so he rapidly drifted into oblivion, i.e.
Australia.
It is related of manager Drury, of the
Q.N. 8., that when he managed the Brisbane
office of the Bank of Australasia the branch was
inspected by the late E. S. Parkes, a terrible dis-
ciplinarian, so exact that he counted even the
stamps. “Stay a moment, Mr. Parkes,” said
XJrury, as the latter was about to leave, “you
have forgotten something.” “I have forgotten
nothing, Mr. Drury,” replied Parkes. “Yes,
sir returned Drury, “here is the key of the
cellar you have omitted to count the coals. 99
Old Judge Lutwyche, of Queensland, wa s
famous for the affecting manner in which he used
to pass _ death sentences. “Prisoner at the
bar, said he on one occasion, “you have (sob)
been found guilty of murdering your wife (pocket-
handkerchief); the sentence of this court is that
you be taken to the place (pause while his honour
wipes his streaming eyes) whence you came and
be hanged by the neck till your body be dead, and
(loud sob) may the Lord have mercy on your soul,”
Another sob. Then (aside): “Mr. Sheriff, will you
dine with me to-night ? Lovely pair of black-
duck.”
Miss F . L. Shaw, of London Times, who
has been for some months travelling in Queens-
land, arrived there with credentials to MTlwraith
and other public men with a view of studying the
Kanaka question— to get a good grip of which, we
may remark, it is necessary for one to sail in a
slaver. Miss Shaw is a lady between 30 and 40, a
blonde with long flaxen hair and of globe-trotter
style and costume. She is, if The Bulletin
recollects aright, the lady who some months ago
was accused in the Australian press of having
written condemnatory articles about a country she
had never seen.
Nearly forty years ago the Hon. Di.
Garran was Congregational pastor in charge of a
chapel at High-street, Kensington, a suburb of
Adelaide, but he was then known as the Rev.
Andrew Gammon. Old inhabitants still remember
the curious coincidence that Mr. Cheetham
preached in the morning and Mr. Gammon in the
evening at this gospel shop, which, with its half-
hlled grave-yard, has now passed into the hands
of the Primitive Methodists. Mr. Garran, under
his old name, was editor of the .Register in the
early fifties, and when he left for Sydney he was
succeeded by Mr. J. H. Barrow, also a Congre-
gational parson, who afterwards founded "the
Advertiser, went into politics, and became pro-
vincial Treasurer. In the editorial chair of the
Advertiser Mr. Barrow, strange to say, was
followed first by Mr. Harcus. a third Congrega-
tional minister, and afterwards by Jeff. Stow the
son of a parson of the same denomination.
Great Truths.
Great truths are very simple truths when finally
they are comprehended ; but it takes a long while
to prepare any mind to comprehend a great truth.
For years one may grope in darkness concerning
some phase of his spiritual life, or some per-
plexities of a sacred friendship, or some seeming
contradictions in his innermost personal character-
when suddenly a light will break in upon the mind’
or upon the heart, which instantly makes clear
that which before seemed hopelessly dark. A
great truth is then perceived in its bearings upon,
and so in its explanations of, all that was be-
wildering and disheartening to one who was in
ignorance of that truth. What a new sense of life
and hope comes with such a new recognition of a
comforting or of an enlightening great truth. In
the joy of an experience like this one can wait
and trust in other perplexities which may yet be
similarly resolved and dissipated. Thus it is that
on the introduction of Clements Tonic everybody
was sceptical of its merits; yet now so popular has
it become, and so reliable has it proved itself, that
hundreds of bogus medicines are placed on the
market with which to gull the public. Every
genuine article is always imitated, and people will
always try to impose on the credulity of their
suffering fellow men. Patients must be on their
guard against these swindlers, for their remedies
are perfectly useless, and while time is being
wasted, the disease increases, and perhaps even
beyond the power of so potent a remedy as
Clements Tonic. Mrs. Brand, of 33 Australia-
street, Newtown, Sydney, writes: “I think it
my duty to write in grateful acknowledgment of
the great benefit my mother has derived by the
use of Clements Tonic. My mother was seriously
ill from inability to eat and general debility ; and
in fact her condition caused us great anxiety ; we
had a great repugnance to using patent medicines,
but the numerous cures we heard had been effected
by Elements Tonic, and which was corroborated
by our personal friends, induced my mother to try
one bottle. The effect of this one bottle was
marvellous, her appetite has returned, and her
health wonderfully improved. We never thought
it possible that so great an improvement could
have been effected in so short a time. Yop may
make what use of this you like, as we are sure
there must be many sufferers, who like my mother
would derive immense benefit by the use of
Clements Tonic. I am yours gratefully, Evelyn
Brand.” Care must be taken that the genuine
“Clements” Tonic is obtained, as the use of
imitations must lead to disappointment and
regret.
Now the public are assured ours are genuine
Filling rapidly. Gala, c/o H. Alexander (if
Oxford-street, Sydney. 10,000 at 5. Dec. 3rd.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Bungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. |3gr” For external use try Coi.kmanu ami
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Oootnmnndr i, N'.S.’V
PEMELIVK
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-st., Sydney.
Subscribers may witness. December Handicap at
Rosehill. 10,000 at 5.
Have yon heard the news? G-NUN Darling
s a sure cure for the “ blues.”
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
PEMELL’S
DIG ESTIVB
MEAL
Caution : Each G N U N Dai’ling is branded
“GNU N.” Refuse all others.
Use Batho s Baking Powder-
<£l-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
On the tram, smoke GNUN Darlings.
..
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-,
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM '
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
't'i A 24 ('inrcncc'Strcct*
SYDNEY.
m
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is “ Jack ” Want’s opinion that Sleath
and Ferguson’s only offence was the placing of
pickets.
The gentle Harding, Queensland’s puisne
judge, is sharpening his claws over Griffith’s pro-
motion.
The coming democratic Ministry in S.A.
will include Kingston, Oookburn, Brooker, Grain-
ger, and Gordon.
The Queensland general elections are likely
to be deferred till MTlwraith’s return from India
in April or May.
The Broken Hill miners should now all be
forced to take the oath of allegiance to Her Sacred
Majesty Queen Victoria.
“ Taxation is said to bear equally on all
classes, because it hardly presses on the rich and
presses hardly on the poor.”
Parkes is opposed to the establishment of
the Referendum. Naturally : He has lived all his
life by muddling up the issues.
Workmen, you daily put your penny into
the daily-paper slot, and what does the machine
return you ? Insults, poison.
Increased railway rates in Victoria have
created opposition carriage. A line of teamsters’
waggons now makes regular trips from Melbourne
to Maryboro’ !
The S.A. Government notifies that the
salary of Commandant General Downes’ successor
will be £750 instead of £lOOO. Low pay for a
master-murderer.
Dynamite is the infernal appliance of the
anarchists. Fools ! Why not use, to the same
end, the infernal appliance now appropriated by
the classes ? Law !
Poverty-stricken Victoria pays £13,600
yearly in pensions to absentees, headed by Duffy,
£1000; Lady Darling, £1000; Childers, £866;
Bir A. Clarke, £BOO.
J. B. Patterson has the colossal cheek to
deny that, in the dim past, he pitchforked a con-
siderable portion of the population of Castlemaine
into Government billets.
“ Chief Justice Griffith !” Ah ! alack !
The people’s heart is full.
They thought Sir Sam. would get the sack ;
He takes it —full of wool.
The N.S.W. Labour-party will more than
get level over the “ strike-time ” sentences by
showing up some of the bogus businesses carried
on by the “ law n’ awdah ” party.
Grainger, M.P. (S.A.): “The vote for
parliamentary catering was larger than that for
the library, because, though all me nbers have
bellies, they have not all got minds.”
Is the San Francisco mail service to drop 'I
Surely we are not going to let the English party
score this one, and try to distort all the U.S.
traffic, for us, round by piebald Canada.
In future, there are to be 24 days’ con-
tinuous yelling before every N.S.W. general elec-
tion. But there is a compensation : some of the
candidates will talk themselves to death.
The Bill to feather the nest of the Q. Chief
Justiceship to the tune of £3300 for Griffith's
convenience, is such a bald and undraped swindle
that it should be designated “ the nude in art.”
A weekly democratic paper is on the stocks
in Adelaide. If incubated it is to be edited by
J. Medway Day, ex-editor of the Register. The
idea is to ultimately make it a daily democratic
sheet.
The S.A. Labour-leaders talk of inducing
Ferguson, one of the imprisoned Barrier strikers,
to stand for one of the democratic constituencies at
next year’s S.A. Assembly elections. The first
thing is to get him out of gaol.
The S.A. National Ass programme for
next year’s elections is “property-tax,” anti-labour
machinations, stock-tax, butter bonus (to catch
the farmers), and herculean efforts to secure a big
majority for the present Downer crowd.
Gladstone and Redruth gaols (S.A.) are
empty, and it is suggested that they be sold for
dairy factories. The former cost about £50,000,
and was built to gain votes, by a deceased Premier
who represented the district in Parliament.
Did any member of the N.S.W. Ministry
which bought the ship Sobraon owe the vendor
thereof or his agent any money ? And, if so, how
much? By the way, £ll,OOO was paid for the
Sobraon. She would have been dear at £4500.
Premier Griffith, Q.C., winked the other
eye when Nelson introduced the bill to give the
new Queensland Chief Justice an increase of
£lOOO a year, but he wisely kept out of the House
on every occasion upon which the bill came on.
The interjections of the sultry Anarchist
who wants to “blow ’em up” at democratic
meetings are always faithfully reported by the
Argus. They give a destructive and bloodthirsty
tone to the politics of the beastly crowd, dontcher-
know.
The Queensland Patriotic Leaguers have
gone their bottom dollar in buying electoral votes
for selves and friends. Every suburban freeholder
has been shepherded on to the roll. But a sur-
prise awaits the P.L. Only fools or liars tell how
they vote.
“ Manhood suffrage includes the repre-
sentation of all interests, although it may be not
in that precise proportion which would be most
beneficial to the country—and who is competent
to say what such proportion should be ?” —George
Higinhotham.
In the Robb (Q.) railway-contract arbitra-
tion ease, the briefs are marked—Griffith, 500
guineas; Byrne, 400; Drake, 300; Shand, 200;
with daily refreshers of one-tenth of the amount
in each case. The case should end with the close
of the century.
The unemployed Jews of London are
organising a procession to last three days, during
which period they will travel through the city
barefoot. The unemployed Jews! What state
must a city be in when it contains enough starving
Hebrews to make a procession ?
Apropos Tommy Walker’s motion to have
“ titles ” abolished in Parliament. M. H. Davies,
when Victorian Speaker, used to sicken the House
by calling upon “Captain” Taylor a hundred
times a night, and most people didn’t know
whether Taylor bossed a fire brigade or a Yarra
lighter.
The Argus scoffed at the new defence
committee at Broken Hill inasmuch as it had
“never ventured to express any opinions of its
own, and had never been credited with holding
any opinion.” If the Argus got two years’ hard
for expressing its opinions, it might be a little
more reserved.
Said Pitt, speaking on the Arbitration
Act: “ The time will come when manufactures
will have been so long established, and the opera-
tives not having any other business to flee to, that
it will be in the power of any one man in any
town to reduce wages, when all the other manu-
facturers must follow. If ever it does arrive at
this pitch (sic), Parliament, if it be not then
sitting, ought to be called together, and if it
cannot redress your grievances, its power is at an
end. Tell me not that Parliament cannot—its
power is omnipotent to protect.”
The Public Works
Committee of N.S.W.
has well nigh exhausted
its business paper. It
has reported on as many
proposals forpublic works
ns N.S.W. will probably
construct during a de-
cade. Yet a movement is
afoot to make further
proposals so that this
political white elephant
may keep up the pretence
of giving an equivalent
for the numerous guineas
of which it bleeds the
State. It is now pro-
posed to send back for
further inquiry several
rejected proposals on the
flimsy ground that since
the committee gave its
decision —only a week or
two back ! additional
evidence has been forth-
coming. How easy for a
committee to play this
guinea-pig game ad in-
finitum !
In a sub-leader on
self-registration, the S.M.
Herald argues that this
electoral principle will
increase the power of
political organisations,
and nullify that “of the
unknown and unclassified
men who think for them-
selves and act upon their
own independent judg-
ments, and who may be,
on occasion, the salt of
the political earth,” but
who, nevertheless,
“ trained in habits of
dependence by the
State,” will not take the
trouble to register
their names, or, having
registered them, to vote.
The man of “indepen-
dent judgment,” whose
independence has been
taken away by “ State
intervention,” is a freak
of nature, to be found only in Hunter-street
mental museum.
The Archbishop of Adelaide is expected to
use the powers of the Holy Church against the
election of Kingston, Q.C., at West Adelaide next
year. However, Kingston is more popular with
the voting Catholics than is his Grace, whose
power would be greater supposing woman-suffrage
were the law of the land.
S.A. railway employes still declare that
Chief-Commissioner Smith put them on half-time
because they were sending too much money to the
Broken Hill strikers. The present Works Minister
(Grayson) is a city member dependent upon the
labour vote, and so will either have to set things
right or die politically in March.
Editor Bulletin, —It will be just as well
for the democratic party to press the N.S.W.
Ministry hard and violently for the release of the
Broken Hill strike-leaders. If threatened, the
Ministry can’t let the men out. If the strikers
are in gaol at election time down goes the Govern-
ment. It will go down anyhow.— Voro.
National Defence League Baker, M.L.C.,
absolutely wept when he heard that the Downer
(S.A.)Govi. was made up without any reference
to him. The Conservative Register tried hard
to get Baker into the team, but Downer (though
a knight) recognised that to take Baker was about
equal to swallowing political strychnine.
Mem. When the Dibbs Government were
first attacked in the House about the Broken Hill
arrests, they said they had nothing to do with
them. When the wretched division was over, and
the Ministry had only won (by four) by giving
seven votes for themselves, they said that their
majority was the result of their law-and-order
policy.
The cardinal maxim for every radical to
remember is—What the law can do, by the law
can be undone. Every inroad of privilege, every
encroachment of monopoly, effected by the classes
by so-called constitutional means, can be reversed
by similar means. The salvation for the worker
is to hoist the plutocrat and the monopolist by his
own petard—the Law.
MTlwraith wants to sit for Bundaberg,
and made a bold bid privately for the seat during
his recent visit, but the planters told him plainly
that only a local man could oust Labour-member
Hall, and they were dubious even about that.
Duffy will likely again be the capitalistic
nominee. He is socially popular, but the seat
will probably remain with Hall.
From Wise’s new book (p. 158)
For the purposes of the Freetrade argument, it cannot
be too often repeated, if we would persuade the wage-
receiver to support Freetrade, that the most socialistic
sentiments in favour of an alteration in their industrial
condition are not at variance with the teachings of Free-
trade.
Same old Leg-on-either-side-of-the-wall Wise.
Epps, of Epps’ cokum, secretary to N.S. W.
National Ass, won the prize recently offered by
that animal for an essay on “thejbest means of
settling the people on the land.” As a rule, it
looks suspicious when a society’s prize is won by
its own officer, but it doesn’t in this case. Epps
is about the only man who could write the only
kind of essay the Ass would give a prize for.
In S.A., as in Bananalaud, capitalistic in-
fluence has been “ purging” the rolls. The rolls
are made up from the recent census papers.
Democratic committees have been quietly at work,
however, and in East Torrens alone over 300
electors have been put on. Strange that all of
these are working men. Of course, not one
property-holder had been omitted from the roll!
Castine, M.P., has put up the record
stonewall in S.A. Parliament, by holding the
floor (in opposition to the grant of a site for
Trades’ Hall purposes) from 11.19 p.m. until
7.35 a.m. next day. This does not equal Jawbone
Neild, of N.S.W., who once spoke for nine solid
hours. A Maori member of Parliament is said to
have talked for 18 hours, and a Nova Scotian
PRESENCE OF MIND.
JONES : “ Say, Smith, old man, lend me fifteen bob.”
SMITH : “Certainly. How much did you say?”
JONES : “Fifty bob.”
legislator (once a printer in Australia) holds the
world’s jaw-belt, for 19 hours.
Murehead successfully engineered the
appointment of Hume Black, M.L.A., planters’
superannuated representative, as extra immi-
gration agent. Same old tale—a Government
billet invariably the political terminus of third-
class passengers. Annear M.L.A., expected to
get the post, but Griffith wisely decided not to
inflict John’s patent improvements in English
grammar upon a long-suffering British public.
When a Queensland sugar-plantation is
put up for auction the advt. always states that
“the labour” ( i.e ., the Kanakas) is included in
the purchase. The plantation of the late Walter
Adams, M.L.A., was some time since advertised
for sale, “ with the labour,” but owing to “ repre-
sentations ” the notice was speedily altered, and
the transfer of the “ vested interest ” in the
Kanakas substituted.
In 1890, according to Brisbane Worker,
the non-unionist machine shearers were supplied
with all shearing necessaries gratis. In 1891, they
were charged 9s. per doz. for combs and 3s, per
doz for cutters. In 1892, they were charged 30s.
per doz. for combs and 6s. a doz. for cutters. The
prices, it is alleged, are going to rise again next
year. The blessed free labourer is always getting
left like this by his friend, the squatter.
Fish, M.L.A. (Maoriland), was interviewed
lately concerning the row in the course of which
Minister MTCenzie shot the pickles at him. lie
says : “ It is said that someone placed his hand
over my mouth in order to stop my utterance.
This statement carries its own refutation with it,
as those who know me best know that such a thing
could not possibly occur.” In other words, Fish
knows that no human hand is large enough for
the job. It would require a hamper.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street,
Sydney. Dec. Handicap, Rosehill, Dec. 3rd.
10,000 at 5 each. S'md at once.
Wrixon pleaded against the reduction of
Judges’ salaries, in the Victorian Assembly, the
other night—pointed out how Hood gave up
.£9OOO a year at the bar, for .£3OOO as Judge.
All this is hollow, because the barrister is a Glen-
loth —only getting anything when he is fit, whereas
the Judge is absolutely snug for life. For
instance, if a N.S.W. Judge gets paralysed five
minutes after his appointment, he draws £IBOO a
year pension for life ; in any case he can retire on
£IBOO a year after 15 years’ service.
Thomas Walker, M.L.A., has given notice
of motion that no title “other than that of a
representative of the people or arising from Minis-
terial position” shall be recognised in N.S.W.
Legislature. In other words, Parkes and Dibbs
are to be plain Mr. Parkes and Mr. Dibbs to the
end of the chapter. Seeing that the House won’t
recognise Jennings’ Roman marquisate and sun-
dry other dignities of the same order, this seems
about fair. Jennings is as much a marquis as
Dibbs is a K.C.M.G., only one got his title from
an old man and the other from an old woman.
Each of the witnesses taken from Broken
Hill to Deniliquin for the so-called conspiracy
trial cost the Crown £33. Thirteen witnesses
subpoenaed for the prosecution were not called,
but they were paid all the same. One of these, a
journalist, was kept out of the box because it was
discovered that Want, Q.C., had been filled with
some interesting facts concerning him. A witness
who was called said in response to an interroga-
tion from the Crown Prosecutor : “I saw one man
drilling another.” That was the absolute sum
total of his evidence, which cost the State £5 a
word.
Pat Real, the ex-carpenter recently
elevated to the Queensland Bench, will probably
resign if the Queensland Assembly pass the bill to
increase the C.J.’s. (Griffith’s) salary and ignore
the other judges. Real is a brainy man and had
a big practice which he would instantly pick up
again. Judge Cooper, N.Q., also threatens to
resign. He would have a tough time making
£2OOO a year at the Queensland Bar; but he is
wealthy and so, perhaps, doesn’t care. His
appointment was one of the many political jobs
perpetrated by MTlwraith and Cos. in ’B4.
The S.M. Herald imagines that com-
binations of employers are anew thing lately
called into existence by the combination of work-
men. But in “Hard Times,” written over 30
years ago, Dickens makes Mrs. Sparsit say to
Bitzer, the employe who acted as a spy for
Banker Bounderby—“lt is much to be regretted
that the united masters allow of any such class-
combinations. Being united themselves, they
ought one and all to set their faces against
employing any man who is united with any other
man. . . These people must be conquered, and
it’s high time it was done, once for all.”
As we w'rite, the Sydney Foreign-traders
pi’opose holding a mass meeting “to congratulate
Mr. Cleveland on his election to the Presidency of
the U.S. and to express sympathy with his efforts
to secure tariff reforms in the direction of Free-
trade.” Now, in the first place, Cleveland hasn’t
yet been elected President. He has secured a
majority in the Electoral College, and if no acci-
dent happens to overset the calculations he will be
elected next January ; but a man of 19 stone, who
hasn’t seen his feet for years, is always an uncer-
tain factor to rely upon. In the next place,
Cleveland says he isn’t a Freetrader. Which are
two very considerable discrepancies.
Julian Thomas (“The Yag.”) has a manly
letter in a recent Age in reply to Edmund Mit-
chell’s (Employers’ Association) sneers at the
beaten strikers. During the whole 18 weeks of
the strike, says Julian, “ the whole of the damage
done was not as much as occurs at an Irish elec-
tion or a first-class wake.” The letter is warmly
eulogistic of the “conspirators.” And yet “The
Vag.” was on the spot in the interests of the Age,
and no man can point to a paragraph in that
paper’s treatment of the strike and strikers
decidedly favourable to the unionists. Like the
rest, Thomas was edited by the greatest journa-
listic censor of the Age, Moneybags, Esq.
The Queensland Labour-party now feels con-
fident of securing at the general election the
following seats ; —Gympie (2), Bundanba, North
Brisbane (2), Fortitude Valley (2), South Bris-
bane (2), Woollongabba, Maryborough (1), Bun-
daberg, Charters Towers (1 or 2), Kennedy, Burke
(2), Townsville (1), Ipswich (1 or 2), Barooo,
Maranoa, Woothakata, Leichhardt, Toowoomba
(1). Other seats to be retained by Radicals, who
will coalesce with the Labour-party, are:—
Enoggera, Stanley, Toowoomba (1), Burnett,
Rosewood, Carnarvon, Toombul, Rockhampton
(1), Rockhampton North. This would make the
party sufficiently strong.
Dear Bulletin, Unquestionably, the
Cleveland victory is a reaction, not against the
essential idea of Protection, but against its abuse
by monopoly. Protection has been saddled with
the tremendous burden of the great and iniquitous
trusts. Let this be a lesson to the blur-visioned
Protectionists who run the Australian Star. The
craving for trusts and other forms of mammoth
monopolies, known to be entertained by certain of
its directorate, has already expressed itself editori-
ally. That directorate, individually or corporately,
has no standing apart from politics ; particularly
from the Protectionist element in politics. There-
fore, if in their not irrational fear of trusts, the
people of N.S.W. squelch Protection, with it they
will squelch the Star crowd. Verb. sap. —A
Hireling Scribe.
Press and Subscribers thoroughly satisfied with
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street, Sydney.
Event Dec. 3rd. 10,000 at 5 each.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
THE YOUNG VICTORIAN PATRIOT.
For toil too tender and frail,
Except in the eating of dirt;
He clings to the golden tail
Of Capital’s golden shirt.


frtfessjr of ?Mcd Ectyeyy
"Hurt fefr/f'f al /
oj /Jeid.
J)ouU^)a.Uj- ?
/T\ ' S
A
fastscfthi--
a
l*jflf"
o
tt Can.
Vj e r/qfif /yay/or /fa fa///^
tfye 2 a/e x///
3rd /$
/fie ' fa 6/e
y&pss " ec/sfar
nlfa adysfa
/t°rs opals " a pcC
for Ac/o/fi/op *
//c/wrAsp/ysp/j
'/?/# //s
h^ba/pr
■■
/fme
>« aoy tfiUry pm
/PM* W m M
atfiresept 1 6 W JuriedJ-/ftey
k
-
for
V tty f a Tr
fl' 1
%
ty wi-Nq j 5 0 o
Im Sy x
Ohly, Ih j
Am
/f
_
THE GREAT BABY-QUESTION.


‘Wkrb| ini @r -fe r bi (e boFm
JSX- XXs- L
V 3 x
\ Ct CPO < S > -/~ ar> ° J ~‘ "— C
/ ' /
"hC. R/f/e
0 1,0 I'ves
K'.HU
rnar'k^P,
1 Looncler*
Ip'4 h c»i (1
Cou
* , c W !r, S'* *5 *•**_
♦ s* %.
I>-
T^o T% eu[q K
4-_ I I J_ *
° o peTtoui^
€>•%,<. n//.o m ej-i~Ac> r'y
s /
(Qrfm(e)'S
*•
1 [orve 01'* kSol Qui -AAcillee' penSe
VICTORIAN ITEMS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
TS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
x to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from I/O
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note.— These allotments are in selected positions
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good
Easy Terms. Pcrlcct Title.
“There is Money in it.’’
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
309 Pitt-street, Sydney, NSW.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Offick:
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Take Ayer’s Pills, and be cured. Misery is a
mild word to describe the sufferings of body and
mind, caused by habitual constipation. A
moderate use of Ayer’s Pills will invariably
regulate the bowels.
SCIENTIFIC CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE SIGHT.
3ST- <SS CO.
[N. LAZARUS.* N. DAVIDSON.]
(by Special Appointment to His Excellency the Marquis of Dufferin, ex-Viceroy and Governor-General of India,)
LONDON, CALCUTTA, 330 COLLINS STREET (MELBOURNE), WELLINGTON (N.Z.
Have OPENED ESTABLISHMENTS at
180 Street, Sydney, and 103 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TRADE MARK
r
REGISTERED.
-I- invention, Patent No. 4354, and has been uni-
versally admitted, both by Press and Public, to bo
absolutely the simplest and most perfect yet dis-
covered for determining all errors of refraction. The
personal experience and practical knowledge has been
gained by many years of study and diligent research.
nPTffinvo nvrv , , „ . , , We rernmd t,ie Public that we are OCULIST-
OI 1 IOIANis ONLY, and always especially desire to see all those who have hitherto found it impossible to obtain suitable Spectacles. We invite
parents to bring their children and have their sight tested. Consultation and advice free.
N.B. This is our ONLY ADDRESS in Sydney, and all New South Wales and Queensland Agents can be supplied from here.
We Append a few Australian Press Notices :
Auk, Melbourne Exhibition Report of Sept. 4, 1888 There is a most interesting exhibit by Messrs. N. Lazarus & Co., of Calcutta, the well-known Indian and
e business in Calcutta, as well as in KnidanH nnr) tPai.. „„ ... .. . “nan ana
London opticians. Messrs. Lazarus & Co/conduct~ a very extensive business in Calcutta, as well as in England! and their’rerienceas CApSftebo™^
lime surgeons. Some of the leading suigeons of London and India have borne testimonv t.o thp neemnn,. p le nlo( j e
hundreds of
C'l"
mis, if is does not surpass, the most eminent
ith r • ° c 11 o.u;u«u, as «en us m cngiaiKi, ana their experience as experts in their own par tier
ophthalmic surgeons. Some of the leading surgeons of London and India have borne testimony to the accuracy of
luring the short time they have been in Melbourne in connection with the Exhibition I hey have been interviewed bv
iistiltmg a surgeon. ”
liuvuic i civ 11 vu w, lulling klic Oil'
persons who, perhaps, would never dream of consulting a sur
From the Daily Telegraph, Sydney, August 20, 1890.—“ A valuable addition to the ophthalmic science has recently been introduced hv Messrs N I n,,,.,,. a. rv, n •
improve' method of sight-testing, and it is believed will prove of much benefit to the large number of people having defective sight Mess a N 1 »»!!I , Ifc - isa
exhibited at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, is a simple and perfect mode of discovering the slightest defect or difference in perception between the two eves dc ' ice a
From the Australian Star, Sydney, August 22, 1890.-“ Improved Method of SioiiT-TBBTiNo.-VVe have had an opportunity ofiisitinaihe rnnm* v t
and Co., Oculist opticians, and seeing a practical experiment of their patent refraction test and system of sight-testing. Certain!v nothing simpleror more eomnbUa
system of Messrs. N. Lazarus & Co. could he devised. The test will show at once the nature and extent of even the slicrhteßt critical nenniiaJftv anri me 00,n F fban the
able lenses and frames enables them to suit almost any case." * ‘‘ ll » hteit °P t,cal Peculiarity, and the system of interchange.
Society
The first meeting of the Victorian Legis-
lative Council after the death of President
Macßain was an unduly awful affair. The throne
and table in front of it had been hung with sable
trappings, and the immediate business of the
evening was grief. Nobody ventured to stand at
the table, upon the table, or near the table —they
all retired to the far end of the chamber, and
affected to be weary fragments. The religious
portion of the ceremony was then performed by
Jenkins, gorgeous Jenkins, who ground forth an
official prayer (with the air of a person who is
trying to be good) previous to delivering Macßain’s
farewell message to the noble Romans he had left
behind him. After which the meeting sighed
simultaneously, and adjourned for the purpose of
putting another man in Macßain’s place. That’s
the worst of greatness—the shadow of the next
man hangs over it always.
* # *
Much excitement in Sydney respecting the
discovery of rich lodes of babies in Macdonald-
town and Redfern. Some specimens already un-
earthed have attracted much attention. The police
are still prospecting, and it is believed that the
deposit will improve at a depth. At present, the
prospect is about one baby to the dish.
# # #
No wise baby-farmer ever buried a dead
infant in her own back-yard. The baby-farmer
who plants her deceased stock-in-trade in her own
premises is almost certain to come to grief sooner
or later. Dead offspring should always be
deposited in somebody else’s yard. If we were in
the business, when the goods perished we would
go along secretly and by night, and plant them in
good old Jawbone Neild’s garden, and when
Neild’s garden was full, we would use Alfred
Allen’s place, or that of any other obtrusively-
righteous citizen, as a sepulchre, and we
would also deposit a few infants under
the lawns of the neighbouring clergy, and
inter one or two outside Hampton Villa when
H. Parkes was asleep and dreaming about the
“ Beauteous Terrorist; ” and after that we would
probably bury the rest about the S.M. Herald
office. And when Neild was tried for baby-fann-
ing perhaps, by the irony of fate, we would be on
the jury and would help to find him guilty on the
general principle that a man of his loquacity
deserved a rough deal, anyhow.
* * *
One thing which will considerably help
the police in tracing the mothers of the numerous
children apparently handed over to the custody of
the Makin family is the fact that whenever an
illegitimate child is born some Woman other
than the mother is inevitably aware of the fact.
The newspaper assertions that the children were
killed by having the heart punctured with long,
thin needles has no foundation whatever in legal
evidence and rests on no better basis than
a venerable “old woman’s” theory, which has
done duty in a hundred more or less similar cases
in a hundred different lands. So far, not one out
of all the fifteen or sixteen infants’ bodies found
buried on premises said to have been occupied at
one time or other by the interesting family now in
custody is in a condition which permits of medical
science definitely laying down a cause of death.
The doctors may theorise, but are no more able to
decisively say what baby No. 1 or baby No. 15
died of than they are able to say what killed the
Egyptian mummy in the University museum.
The list of Cup dresses in the Melbourne
papers reached the height of humbug this year.
Half the women mentioned didn’t go to the Cup
at all, and few of those who were there wore the
gowns hitched to their names by the lady reporter.
Ihese newspiper details are supplied by “repre-
sentative ” females and their dressmakers, before-
hand, and are a great comfort to sassiety. Once
on the list a woman feels safe. She can stop
away from the Cup and make a carnival pudding
m the kitchen if she likes, but she and her high-
toned toilette get to Flemington all the same—in
the newspaper.
# » »
Melbourne Tram Co. has made a departure
in running the cables on thinly-populated roads
12 miles an hour, instead of 10, as heretofore.
Supposed benefits to be derived therefrom are not
appreciable, but the heavy cost of the alterations
necessitated in the engine-houses is. And more,
the increased rate of speed must, without doubt,
J;end to materially shorten the life of the enor-
mously expensive rope, as well as that of the
running gear beneath the track.
* * *
It is not generally known, even in Mel-
bourne, that the Tram Co. runs a special time-
table on Friday. The travelling public are
broke ” or thereabouts on that day, and conse-
quently walk in. Therefore fewer trams are
required. The world is hideously human.
Dear Bulletin, —I
always like a bet. Tell
S.G. (of your issue Oct.
22, 1892) that I’ll lay him
a good saddle hack to
five shillings 1. That
Madeline Smith never
married a doctor, clever
or otherwise. 2. That
she never drove any
doctor to drink. 3. That
whether masterful or
mistressful she was a
jolly nice girl once. 4.
That she has no property
in Melbourne under any
other name than Smith.
5. That if she did poison
the Jersey man, she got
rid of a contemptible
sneak who threatened to
show her letters. 6. That
the case being “not
proven ” the notoriety
is also not proven. I
can also lay a litter of
fox-terrier pups to half-a-
crown that she was not
seen in Melbourne a
week ago, or a month
ago, or since about 1870 ;
and that if all S.G.’s
statements are gospel
I’ll wager six large
kangaroo-skins and four
emu-eggs to one-and-six
that S.G. had better
leave MS. in obscurity,
—Scotty W.
* * *
The people of Dune-
din (M.L.) were made to
sit up the other day. A
Chinaman who had a
large vegetable-hawking
connection disappeared
from his usual beat, and
it presently transpired
that he had died or
crumbled away rather
suddenly. Also, when
he was being got ready
for interment it further
transpired that he was
in a somewhat advanced
stage of leprosy, and
now his customers are
feeling their ears every
morning for traces of the
complaint, and watching for blue skin-patches,
and for signs of numbness in their toes.
# # »
Aboard the Aramac on Saturday week in
Brisbane River: “H : , steward, I wish to change
cabin 12 for top bunk No. 9.” Harassed steward;
“All right.” “Who’s in with me?’’ “Mrs.
Jones.” His Riverence girded up his loins, and
fled like a second Joseph back to cabin 12.
* # #
A certain banker’s abrupt departure from
Brisbane to London is the topic of the hour in the
former city. The’cute man winks the other eye,
and one of the most favoured of the fair announces
her intention of giving the traveller stern chase.
# # #
A well-known Brisbane R.C. priest is the
hero of a good story. He married a sailor, and
demanded the huge fee of 416 (the usual figure).
The sailor “parted,” but, being out of work and
almost penniless, he returned to his ghostly com-
forter and asked for the refund of a note or two.
“ Hum !” replied his riverince, “God is good;
pray to Him for work.”
# • #
Archbishop Carr gave evidence, last week,
in a Melbourne case, wherein it was sought to
upset the legateeship of a priest. He laid down
the ideas of the educated Catholics, as to
the power of a priest in regard to the other world,
but the cross-examining counsel kept harping on
the more essential point, as to what were the ideas
of the mass of the uneducated on such matters.
# * *
Though the old State carriage used in
South Australia was comfortable and in good
repair, the Railway Commissioners, without con-
sulting Ministers or Parliament, have just built
another at a cost of <£4300. Lady Kintore was
asked to look at the fitting and upholstering,
which she did not like, and they were stripped off
again so that her taste might be pleased. This
“abominable extravagance” is coming before the
House.
* * #
The Sydney Morning Herald annual
wayzgoose has just been held. It would have
been dropped long ago had not a clause in old
John Fairfax’s will made the holding of it man-
datory,
# # #
The Warranee Club for Women was opened
in Melbourne on Saturday. The ceremonial open-
ing is to be later on, when it has been decided
A RACY RECOMMENDATION.
(Caulfield Cup Day. On the Flat.)
BOOKMAKER: “Four to one the fee —uld. Come on, you punters!
come on! We ain’t no common welshers; we won’t
run away with your money.”
whether “the Counters” will perform the func-
tion, or the wife of some good old democrat
(G.O.D. | like George Higlnbotham. The members
are fighting over it. As the members are women,
ten to one on the Countess. There now !
• * «
A Sydney woman in proceeding for divorce
deposed, last week, that her suspicions were first
aroused by hearing her husband call upon “ Ethel ”
in his sleep. “ Balmy ” sleep, indeed.
* * *
In 1883 a woman insured her life with a
certain Australian ofhcCj giving her age as 48. In
1884 she married, and in accordance with insur-
ance regulations she forwarded a copy of her mar-
riage-certificate to the office. Herbage on this
document was stated at 40; that of her husband
at 42. In 1890 her husband died, and this year
she married again. A copy of this second mar-
riage-certificate came to hand in due course. The
lady is now 37, her husband 38.
* * *
This last blow will about settle Victoria.
The invaluable Hopetoun, after pulling his people
through a portion of their trouble, has wearied of
well-doing and applied for a three months’ leave-
of-absence to inspect “the other colonies of Aus-
tralasia,” &c. Can Victoria afford to lose its
grip of Lord H. at this juncture? The Bulletin
thinks it would be a fatal mistake to let His
Excellency go before the prospects of the harvest
are more definitely settled. Besides, what is left
without a Governor!
Dear Bulletin, — I must take exception
to your remarks about the Sydney Lands Office
statues. Those facing Bridge-street are far better
than the two you mention, and the one of Sturt
is especially good and characteristic. The sculptor
has succeeded in conveying the idea of high re-
solve, so marked a feature in Charles Sturt. Most
of the other early explorers are well-conceived and
executed. Whatever may be the faults of the
effigy of Robertson, it is certainly quite good
enough for such a humbug. I knew him in
Queensland when he had his war-paint on.—
Delcomyn.
• * •
The other day, in Sydney, when a silver
cruet-stand was presented to a recently-married
Civil servant some malicious wag filled one of the
bottles with vinegar.
WINDEYER WEPT.
Windeyer wept salt, bitter tears,
His voice began to fail;
The pain of giving five long years
To Francis Abigail
Was more than gentle judge could stand
Without betraying grief—
He hid his face behind his hand
In tears to find relief.
Windeyer wept (a note of that—
Aye, make a little note 1)
For crime that wears a shiny hat
And pious-looking coat.
The hypocrite whose life has been
A bold, unblushing lie—
For him the party in the gown
Can pipe his learned eye.
The wretch who prigs a vulgar “ bob,”
The foolish servant wench
Who “hides her shame," don’t hear a sob
Proceeding from the Bench.
Within the precincts of the gaol
Mount Rennie boys asleep
Will dream, perhaps, of Abigail
Who made his Honor weep.
A WAIL FROM MELBOURNE.
Can Hopetoun go? All ! mo—
For then would all be lost;
His guiding hand, the land
Must have at any cost.
The flocks, and crops, and shops,
Without his watchful eye,
In our belief, to grief
Would come, and folks would die
It Hopey were not nigh.
This man of rank is frank ;
He tells us plump and plain
He wants no trip, by ship,
Across the bounding main,
On plea of biz ; it is
A pleasure jaunt he’d crave
(And, when-away, his pay
And “ tucker,” too, he’d save,
Whilst we sought each a grave).
With one accord, O ! lord,
O 1 guardian angel bright,
We cry, in fear, “ Stop here,
And set the country right!”
Our banks are bust, disgust
Pollutes the Melbourne air ;
You are the one alone
To save us from despair,
In pity hear our prayer 1
Kemain a while, and smile!
Your fair, vice-regal face
So softly beams, and seems
To glorify the place.
A change you need, indeed,
We know just how you feel;
But never mind, be kind,
And keep (our last appeal)
Your “shoulder to the wheel.”
THEY ALWAYS WEEP.
“ The defendants, who were deeply affected,
protested their innocence. Then the judge, in
broken tones, proceeded to pass sentence.”—
Extract from the report of the trial of any recent
bogus hanker :—
When the jury’s found them guilty, as it almost always
will,
And the audience is waiting, and the court is hushed and
still,
Save for some ponderous insect droning in the heavy air,
And the judge has cleared his solemn throat and duly
fixed his hair ;
Then in tones like troubled ocean fretting on a stormy day
lie asks if the defendants have got anything to say ;
Then the men who sowed a bank—whereby a big stone
gaol they reap—
Always sit up there together, and at once proceed to
weep.
And they state in broken accents, they were young and
free from guile,
And they cast their fraudful sheet upon the waters with a
smile;
But after many days the document came back once more
Like the sodden corpse whose bones will keep returning
to the shore ;
And the books came home to roost again, like curses
burning hot,
And the assets walked in darkness, like the worm that
dieth not;
But if any wrong was done by them they did it in their
sleep,
At which stage of the proceedings the defendants always
weep.
But we live in hopes that some day a banker gone astray
Will meet the fate he courted in quite a different way—
Some Unrepentant banker who will briefly make reply
That whate’er may be the sentence he prefers to take it
dry ;
That he isn’t feeling sorry for the evil life he led—
That the judge will please proceed, and that he’ll do it on
his head ;
And a warm spot in our hearts for that defendant we will
keep
As the only fallen banker in this land who didn’t weep


eose 7 s * ~
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
the best d r ink for all.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold ty irl Storekeepers, etc.
General Agents:
JULES RENARD «Sc CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
When your nerves are bad or you feel knocked
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
After tea. smoke G N U N Darlings.
Your fortune, send at once for tickets to
“Gala,” c/o H. Alexander, G 7 Oxford-street,
Sydney. Dec. 3rd. 10,000 at 5 each. Register.
Walking to business, smoke G N II N Darling
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
What is a home without G N U N Darlings ?
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and King
streets. He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address—Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sydney Arcade, George and
King streets.*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Your Own House by sending for Tickets to
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-st., Sydney.
10,000 at 5 each.
At Waterloo you can buy G N-U N Darlings.
There is no danger to human life more to be
dreaded than that which arises from vitiated
blood. Dyspepsia, rheumatism, headache, and
general debility, all result from it, and are cured
by the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“SPECTACLES: their Use, when Required,
and how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
463, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Baby-farming in Sydney appears to be
carried oh principally on the system of spade-
culture. You plant your babies in rows, about
two feet apart, and they are fit for gathering about
the Day of Judgment. Any attempt at raising
them earlier spoils the farm.
# # *
The new r admiral of the Australian squad-
ron, whose name is Smith, only he hides the
degrading circumstance behind Bowden, has the
following medals—Burundi, with Pegu clasp ;
Baltic; China, with Fatchan and Taku clasps;
and Royal Humane Society. We want to impress
upon Smith that, in Heaven, the first shall be
last, and the last first.
# * *
“ Macleay,” writing to The Bulletin, sees
a distinct peril in the projected abolition of “ sin”
by Jawbone Neild and Co., pointing out that
similar legislation attempted in other countries
only produced a harvest of iniquity. In Berlin,
for example, after a spasm of virtue, the authorities
experienced a panic of terror, and restored the
charter of Messalina and Phryne. It is inexpedi-
ent to entrust the modern police with the control
of suspected vice, unless they are made perma-
nently qualified, as in Eastern countries. And
even after a calm, physical neutrality has been
ensured, the fear remains that the “ foorce ”
would be susceptible to pecuniary temptations.
# * #
Each of the two innocent co-respondents
in the recently heard (Maoriland) Joshua divorce-
suit were awarded £l5O damages. When hearing
thecase the Chief Justice remarked that it was
noticeable how stupid the men witnesses were,
and how very clever the women. The women won.
* * *
A vag., arraigned at Sydney Police Court
last week, when asked if he did any work, said he
was writing a book. He took from his hat the
first twenty chapters and handed them up to the
Bench. The Court ruled that the writing of a
book was no defence to an indictment for vagrancy.
Such is the status of the Australian literary man.
* * *
Madden, Q.C., had a rare chance in
getting Archbishop Carr under cross-examination
in the Walsh will-case. A quarter of a century
ago, Madden used to carry round the plate at St.
Francis’, Melbourne; but when he came to get
married, Archbishop Goold wouldn’t let the cere-
mony be performed, because the Mrs. M.-eleot
was a Protestant. Tons of correspondence took
place between Dr. Bleasdale, the Archbishop’s
secretary, and Dr. Madden, but nothing came of
it, and Bleasdale “closed” the wrangle. Madden
never carried the plate after that. The wedding
took place in the Church of England, at Caulfield,
and no one ever saw Dr. Madden at Mass again.
» * #
Nothing is more stupendous than the
swagger of the British naval officer when he gets
among a pack of savages. The Gilbert Islands
were “ annexed” the other day, and an individual
in a blue coat and mutton-chop whiskers sat down
to make “laws” for the natives. He fixed the
same penalty for drunkenness and for robbery, and
made emigration three times as bad as adultery !
* * *
A witness in the Walsh will-case, at Mel-
bourne, was asked if he had not, at a previous
trial, written a letter trying to influence the judge.
He replied that he had, but that it was at his
mother’s instigation, and added that he was but a
country “ boy ” then. Counsel ; “ How long ago
was that ?” Witness : “ Two years.” “ Hew old
are you now?” Witness: “Forty-two.”
* # #
Sydney E. News item :
TYTILL a Kind Lady take Girl 12 years old. gentle
’’ birth. Mrs. , G.P.0., city.
Will somebody please define “gentle birth.”
Age advt. : “ Editor, reporter and can-
vasser wanted, must be good compositor; single
and sober. Country paper.” The genius who
gets this billet has only to do seven men’s work,
including the singleness and sobriety. These two
items are the hardest of the lot.
» • «
Apropos of our last week’s reference to
leprosy as affording strong motifs to our story-
tellers, we forgot that Price Warung’s fine story,
‘‘The Last of the Wombat Barge,” written for
The Bulletin Xmas No. of two years ago, turned
on a leper’s fate.
# # «
Mrs. Harding, the Ballarat woman who
attempted suicide two weeks after her marriage,
moans to her paramour from what seems likely
to prove her death - bed : “Oh! Jim, Jim, what
trouble I have brought upon you! And all
through marrying that pig of a man.” You
cannot offend some women worse than by marry-
ing them.
* • «
Evidence in the baby-mining case : ‘‘ He
borrowed a shovel, and when it was returned the
neighbours saw dirt-soils on it.” What else but
dirt-soils would anybody expect to find on a
shovel ? Did they suppose the man borrowed a
shovel to butter his bread on, or to write a letter
with ? Anyhow, evidence that is often given in
our courts, with an air of terrible consequence, and
received with horror, would reflect discredit upon
the discrimination of a dead mule.
« * »
Dear Bulletin, — Why do newspapers dis-
tinguish certain nationalities only when in trouble?
“ A German was charged“ Amico Bruno, an
Italian, was found dead ;” “A fire occurred on
the premises of Abraham Isaacs, a Jew;” “Patrick
O’Brien, an Irishman, was charged,” etc. Do
Englishmen ever commit offences ? Bunylp.
[No, never. —Ed. B.]
The latest Mel-
bourne form of the con-
fidence-trick is for a
man to propose marriage
to a girl, with a view of
jointly carrying on a gro-
cery business. On the
marriage morning, she
was induced to draw out
of the Savings Bank £4O,
to complete the purchase
of the business. He
entered the front door of
premises that have an
outlet at the back into
another street, telling her
to wait for him while he
“ fixed things up.” He’s
still fixing them.
* # #
Melbourne journal-
ism by boys : “ The dis-
play of fireworks on the
Melbourne cricketground
last night was postponed,”
etc., etc.
# # #
The Age says the
Lilydale Mounted
“ patriotically ” vol un-
teered for the duty of
escorting Gov. Hopetoun
and the Gov’ment ’Ouse
party to the races.
Patriotism is evidently
going cheap.
# * #
Sydney Mail should
give up publishing these
little, unexciting pictures
of Australasian scenery.
Its latest effort is a view
of Dunedin (M.L.) in
which the wild ocean is
represented as washing
over all Kensington,
South Dunedin, and St.
Kilda, and the Peninsula
is turned into an island,
and the bay is altered to
a strait. We are now
waiting for a view of
Sydney, with the Parra-
matta River flowing
through Woolloomooloo,
and the Post-office situ-
ated on Middle Harbour,
the latter being an afflu-
ent of Botany Bay.
* * *
The Trappist monks
have started a mission-
station at Beagle Bay,
W.A. It is reported a
success, as the natives
have already been taught
to work in the garden.
“ Get thee to a nunnery.”
Max O’Rell, in the Argus: —“On the
flab at Flemington one hoars no revolting language,
sees no revolting sights.” Now, the present
writer, on Cup day, saw two women deliberately
rolled in the deep mud, near the carriage paddock,
by their larrikin friends. Another woman had
most of her clothes pulled off by a youth who was
trying to lift her into a van heels-first, an atten-
tion she resisted with language that eventually
frightened the horse. At about five o’clock the
crowd on the flat affords a good average of revolt-
ing sights and sounds, the glib taffy of the globe-
trotter to the contrary notwithstanding.
* * «
It is now illegal in Queensland to use the
words “ nervous debility ” in connection with a
medical advt. The phrase is proscribed under the
new “ Indecent Advts.” Act. Proportionately as
Queensland has travelled in such commercial
rascality as nigger slavery and land-grant railways
she has grown “moral.” The Queensland Legis-
lature, than which, as shown by the work of the
session, no more unblushingly thievish gang ever
assembled under the death’s head and cross-bones,
is so very “ moral ” that it will probably soon be
proclaimed an act of indecency to be born in
Bananaland.
# * *
A new and very stringent Act against
indecent literature and pictures comes shortly into
force in Maoriland. tinder it merely showing
such things will render a person liable to six
months’ imprisonment. Reading publicly some
parts of the Bible will be fatal to freedom.
The Little Bay authorities deny that the
two nurses dismissed for insubordination were
called upon to nurse leprous patients. However,
it is admitted that a patient under observation in
the Coast Hospital, who was ultimately diagnosed
to be suffering from leprosy, was first treated in
the general hospital and then removed to the leper
quarters. From which it would appear that the
nurses, who all along objected to handling the
patient in question, got ahead of the doctors in
diagnosis.
* * #
Francis Adams, manager of the A. J.S Bank,
will shortly return to Sydney. He is at present in
EXPERIENCE MAN
Leaver i]is bocEs outside
J)ii bedroofg door fb be
deafed according lo
03d old Eljglislj
1 rad ifioyj
Late ime/t rjomNCj
' ‘v|sj |? deuce |a/e ijt
ffij
(juoty
Immo of corny ?üb. Jn
I J d(d See a pair o' bool's outside
door, tub %jj Seeif d
.^foo good to axicuj,So
enj io arj old say-
doinhjer qij'jjetoiff ey aCfij 1
Dresden locating some of his family at school.
There is apparently one place only in Germany
for Australians and that is Dresden.
* * *
Brisbane Musical Union called blushes to
the painted cheek of propriety by giving “The
Rose of Sharon ” the other day. Not being
biblical students, the unco’ pious knew not that
the words were the words of Scripture.
» « »
What we’re coming to. Scene : Divorce
Court. Presiding Judge, to fair petitioner
(becomingly dressed in black, as being about to
bury her past): “ Have you seen your hubby
lately?” F.P. : “No, your Honor.” P.J. :
“ Decree nisi. Next, please!”
• * »
There is food for thought in the following,
scissored from a Sydney daily :
At last meeting of the School of Arts Friday night
debating club the question for the evening was : “That
the extraordinary phenomena connected with physical
science are worthy of investigation.” Mesdames Todd,
Hastie, Sanger-Evans, and Jackson, and Messrs. Beeby,
Wilkes, Jones, Hendry, Speight, Farrell, and Winter
spoke on the motion, which was carried by a majority of
12 to 1. The debate for next Friday will be; “That the
railways of the province should be managed by private
enterprise.”
The Bulletin would like to be introduced to the
individual who voted that the “ extraordinary
phenomena ” were not worth investigating. Also,
it would suggest two more subjects; (1) “The
immensity of the universe,” and (2) “ Ought shirt-
buttons to be smashed in the wash ?” Somebody
connected with that society would be sure to vote
that the universe wasn’t immense.
Does the N.S.W. Government really wish
to make its province a laughing-stock for the
patrons of the World’s Fair? If it does, it must
not prevent the circulation of a certain
contribution to Australian literature, now
being published at the Government Printing
Office. The very printers’ devils who carry the
proofs of this remarkable production yell at the
author’s unconscious humour.
Rev. James Henderson, of Melbourne,
speaketh : “The globe itself, interlaced with its
network of electric wires, is throbbing with the
messages of the gospel.” True; when there are
no prize-fights to wire about, and no prime
divorces in high quarters, or marriages between
peers and members of the ballet, we do get an
occasional dot and dash referring to the “ caws of
trewth.”
*’ * *
Another Queensland bank-manager—this
time one with .£BOO annual salary—has joined the
Salvation Army. Afraid of the sweating-room
himself, eh?
* * #
Premier Shiels quoted from “ Don Juan ”
at a Council gorge in Melbourne, the other night,
and was greeted with “severe coughing ” by the
respectable Presbyterians present. The “unco
guid” reserve “Don Juan ” for private consump-
tion only.
* * #
‘‘ Prince Albert, of Monaco, has announced
his intention to refuse to renew the agreement
with the Casino Company upon its expiry in
1913
Again—let juries decide sentences.
# # #
Miss Smith looked nice as usual at the
Cup.
# # »
The S.A. branch of the Geographical
Society has for nearly eight months been post-
poning its annual meeting. The Council are alleged
to fear that awkward questions will be asked con-
cerning their conduct of the Elder Exploration
Expedition.
* # #
Bartlett, M.P., was up at the Adelaide
police court on Wednesday (Nov. 8) for the main-
tenance of an illegitimate child, aged five years.
Barty became a member of Parliament in March,
1887, and the hungry little stranger came to town
in September of the same year. He must have
carried on his canvassing in a very impressive
fashion. Barty’s political career has been
entirely barren, but there are always compensa
tions.
* * •
In a recent Sydney divorce-case, Stone v.
Stone, the wife deposed that she married Stone
merely for the sake of a home.—
A woman’s fate is here in pity shown—
She wanted bread and she received a Stone.
* # #
The daughter of a high church dignitary
in the South has left her lawful hubby (a clergy-
man) to seek congeniality in the bosom of a share-
broker. This is the second affair of the sort in the
dignitary’s family.
# * #
Samuel Jenkins, whilst sleeping in a door-
way in Melbourne, the other night, was robbed of
,£lOO. He deposed that he carried his money
about with him because he had no faith in local
financial institutions. It did not occur to him
that the deposed financiers were most of them still
at large.
A SONG.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
What fools they were ! He kissed her eyes.
Her hand, her lips, her brow ;
He swore the love that never dies,
That never takes its wings and flies—
And she returned the vow.
What fools they were !
How sweet the dream when eager arms,
Made bolder by the night,
Draw closer still her throbbing charms,
And passion sounds its soft alarms
In murmurs of delight.
How sweet the dream !
’Twas always spring ; that golden year
No change of season knew ;
They saw no winter drawing near—
No time of trouble long and drear—
Though cold the breezes blew,
’Twas always spring.
A false reply by one too proud,
When frankness might atone
For trifling fault; she laughed aloud.
They parted in the careless crowd,
And went their ways alone—
Without “ good-bye.”
Ah ! vain attempt to soon forget
The “ nonsense ” of the past—
To stifle pangs of wild regret,
To break the bonds that held them yet
So mercilessly fast.
Ah! vain attempt.
What fools they were ! Without a word
The truth is simply told.
Her captive wrist his fingers gird ;
The moon beamed brighter when he heard
Once more the vows of old.
What fools they were !
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER.
A SILHOUETTE.
He would not cringe, he could not sue
To pampered churl and clown ;
The life the lowly lead, he knew—
The bonds that bind them down.
The dust of town had dimmed his eyes,
His ears the roar and roll,
His hands were bound in toilful ties
They could not bind his soul.
Its wings were dipped in morning’s light,
It crossed the sunset bars,
And pierced the shrouds of sombre night
To mingle with the stars.
In dreamful hours through quiet lands
His feet were wont to stray,
Or where by trackless wastes of sands
The great, wide ocean lay.
And strange, wild fancies filled his head
In many a varying mood ;
But no one knew the life he led,
And no one understood.
Brisbane.
K.
In baby-farming, it’s been found,
To make the business pay,
You plant the babies in the ground
And pluck their parents gay.
*k o£. ~
We sing about a Prince, a Prince of small degree,
Whose virtue seems to wince at ill-got L.S.D. ;
His fortune has been built on legalised roulette.
He lives upon the gilt of fools who want to b. I ;
His name has won renown, his family is fed
By such as plank it down upon the black and r d.
But O ! the other day he clapped his royal brow
And swore, they say, to stop the play
When most of us are old and gray—
In twenty years from now.
Till then he’ll jog along, accumulating grease ;
Although he knows it’s wrong, they have him o:i a lease,
And while they pay the toll he levies on the game—
The little ball will roll and get there just the sani".
We musn’t blame the Prince for raking- in the reed,
But sing his praises, since he’s very cross indent.
Sing hey for us and you, who often make a vow
To change, and do our duty true,
And turn us to a leaflet new
In twenty years from now.


Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-st., Sydney.
December Handicap at Rosehill, Deo. 3. 10,000
at 5. Filling rapidly.
Hallo, there ! smoke GN UN Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 15,
“German
Syrup”
G, Gloger, Druggist, Watertown,
Wis. This is the opinion of a man
who keeps a drug store, sells all
medicines, comes in direct contact
with the patients and their families,
and knows better than anyone else
how remedies sell, and what true
merit they have. He hears of all
the failures and successes, and can
therefore judge: “I know of no
medicine for Coughs, Sore Throat,
or Hoarseness that had done such ef-
Coughs,
Sore Throat,
Hoarseness,
fective work in my
family as Boschee’s
German Syrup. Last
winter a lady called
at my store, who was
suffering from a very
severe cold. She could hardly talk,
and I told her about German Syrup
and that a few doses would give re-
lief; but she had no confidence in
patent medicines. I told her to take
a bottle, and if the results were not
satisfactory I would make no charge
for it. 'A few days after she called
and paid for it, saying that she
would never be without it in future as
a few doses had given her relief, ’ ’ <D
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling oft, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Brillian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very economical for general use; it is
the best softener and beautilier of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a, golden
colour for fair hair. Sites 3 1. Crf., 7s., and 10*. C>d.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a pure and
fragrant toilet powder in three tints —white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is. and 2s. 6 d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
Village Settlement !I !
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASES, WITH OPTION* OF PUR-
CHASE of the FREEHOLD AT ANY TIME
DURING THE SEVEN YEARS AT THE PRICE
AGREED UPON AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF
LEASE.
M'QUOID’S GRANT, OURIMBAH,
convenient to Ourimbah Railway Station, which is on the
G.N. Railway, between the two cities of Sydney and New-
castle, convenient to either market.
THE SYDNEY PERMANENT FREEHOLD LAND and
BUILDING CO., Ld., Pitt and Bathurst Streets, Sydney,
are prepared to treat with persons desirous of securing
areas from 1 to 50 acres of first-class Land on such easy
terms that any industrious man can, by this system of
leasing, with 'option of purchase, make the land pay for
itself. Prices-, as well as areas, vary, but following will
serve as an illustration. Say you decide to lease 5 acres,
the selling price of which is fixed at £2O per acre:
Ist Year.—Rent, £2 10s., payable in advance. Con-
dition : One-tenth of area to be cleared.
2nd Year.—Rent, £2 10s., payable at end of year. Con-
dition : One-tenth of area to be cleared.
3rd Year.—Rent, £2 10s., payable at end of year. Con-
dition : One tenth of area to be cleared,
At the end of the third year the 3-10ths cleared must
be fit for the plough, and the whole 5 acres enclosed with
a substantial split post and rail fence (good timber for
which is handy).
4th, sth, 6th, and 7th years’ rentals, £3 155., £5, £7 10s.,
£lO respectively, payable at end of year. Condition:
That an area of not less than l-10th be cleared each year
fit for plough. At any time during the Lease, the Tenant
to have the right to purchase for the £lOO, the price
agreed upon, on following terms: £25 cash, £25 at 1,2,
and 3 years, with 5 per cent, interest, payable half-yearly.
The Title is under Torrens’ Act.
No Conditions as to residence. All the company insists
upon is the stipulated improvements and payment of the
rent.
Two or more persons can join in taking up blocks.
In such case, only outside boundaries will be required
to be fenced.
Plans from H. KEARNEY, on the estate, close to
Ourimbah Railway Station, who will show intending
settlers over the blocks ; or from the Sydney Permanent
Freehold Land and Building Company', Pitt and Bathurst
Streets, Sydney; or
WATKIN and WATKIN,
313 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, November 15,1802.
LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30.
Bridge, Macquarie River, at Gin Gin, road
Trangie to Collie
Construction of Concrete Arch Culvert for Gar-
diner’s Road, Botany, at No. 7 Dam
Erection of Strong Room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale
Construction of Embankment for protection of
river bank, Great Marlow, Clarence River
Works in connection with Water Supply, Hay
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Annandale
Repairs, &c., Court House, Bellingen
Erection of Lockup, Penrith
Additions to Gaol at Yass
Additions to Courthouse, Parkes
Construction of Petersham Park, Leichhardt, &c.,
Branches of Long Cove Creek Stormwater
Channel, con. No. 89, Sydney Sewerage
Erection of New Wing, Parramatta Gaol
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to Myall River,
during year 1893 (£lO deposit)
Erection of Lockup, Kelso
Recaulking Floors, Hospital for the Insane,
Callan Park. Fresh tenders
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14.
Manufacture, &c., of Thirty-seven Coils of Gal-
vanised Crucible Steel Wire Rope
Bridge, Gil Gil Road, Moree to Mungindi.
Fresh tenders
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bullallaba, road
Braidwood to Cooma
Bridge, Box Creek, road Oxley to Tarrawong.
Fresh tenders
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
N
EW SOUTH WALES GOVERNMENT
RAILWAYS.
SPECIAL CHEAP EXCURSION
to and from the
SOUTHERN LINE.
TICKETS at Special Low Fares will be issued
at Sydney and Suburban Stations to Stations on
the Southern Line and Branches on
WEDNESDAY, 23rd NOVEMBER,
as under :
* Passengers for Stations on the Culcairn-
Corowa Line will leave Sydney by the
5.15 p.m. Express on WEDNESDAY, 23rd
NOVEMBER, and change at Cnlcairn.
Tickets to other stations arranged at propor-
tionately low rates. These tickets will only be
available on the outward journey by the above
special train (Culcairn-Corowa Line excepted),
but passengers can return by ordinary trains
(Express excepted) within a fortnight.
The SPECIAL TIHEAP EXCURSION
TRAIN from the SOUTHERN LINE will
leave ALBURY at 2.45 p.m., on THURSDAY,
24th NOVEMBER, and arrive SYDNEY on
FRIDAY 25th.
Handbills and further particulars can be
obtained from all Station - Masters, Inquiry
Office, Redfern, and Central Booking Office.
George-street. Sydney.
By Order of the Commissioners,
,H. M’LACHLAN, Secretary.
Sydney, 14fch November 1892.
The Wild Cat Column.
Wanted—the inspectors of certain banks which
have branches in Sydney suburban towns where many rail-
way workmen live, to investigate the shixty per shent
relations between certain of the branch managers and the
workmen in question. No legitimate bank goes in for
the usury business with orders against Government-
paid salary as security. The game must surely be the
managers’ own.
# ft ft
It was a neck-and-neok race between the Sydney
offices of the Union Bank of Australia, the plaintiff in the
complicated equity suit, now sub judice, and the Com-
mercial Banking Co., from their respective shops to
the Registrar’s office, the winner to rank as first mort-
gagee over the now celebrated Dover Heights Estate, the
amounts advanced on which run up to five figures.
Shortly after the Commercial had lent money on the
deeds, Sept. A. Stephen met T. A. Dibbs, the general
manager, when, in course of conversation, Dibbs asked
some question about the property. Stephen showed some
surprise at Dibbs being concerned in the estate, and
mentioned that the Union Bank had already a mortgage
over the deeds. This hint was enough for the astute
Dibbs, who hastened back to his office and sent up a clerk
to register the mortgage. On leaving Dibbs, Stephen
thought he would drop in at the Union Bank and relate
what had taken place between Dibbs and himself. This put
the Union Bank crowd on their guard, and they at once
rushed off to register, but just too late: as the Union
man walked in the Commercial man walked out—and the
Union is badly left, as the precedence in mortgages ranks
according to the priority of their registration.
# # ft
Nothing short of a miracle can now save a big
bank rather north of Melbourne. The institution
is question is one with "tentacles,” the operations
whereof have stunk considerably in the law-courts.
# # ft
The Sydney tramway-ring are on the job again
and are approaching members of Parliament.
# ft *
People in Melbourne still think that Matthew
Davies will have to be prosecuted and found not guilty.
# # #
The arm of the law is stretching out after
another Australian Banking Co. fiend, who, it is hoped,
will yet bs conceded a public reception in New South
Wales. Also, the law is not yet quite done with a gentle-
man who has already been tried once. There is no word
yet of Bell and Davis, but it is possible that should Mr.
Malcolm again honour N.S. Wales with his presence, he
may be able to assist in the discovery of the recent, if not
the present, address of these spirited and enterprising
speculators.
# * *
Specimen of Sydney Stock Exchange humour.
One member reports :—“ Brokers will soonhave to submit
to the uncomfortable position of being placed on half
rations, and if the shrinkage of stocks continues they will
be glad enough to satisfy themselves on porridge and
potatoes with an occasional change of bacon and beans.”
ft # *
The acting mining manager of one of Australia’s
big mines has, we regret to hear, become insane, and been
quietly removed.
# ft ft
At latest ‘advices a firm which is getting out
ore by contract at Broken Hill is engaging navvies at 6s. a
day. It is just about six weeks since the big silver companies
lied for the last time to the effect that wages were not going
to be lowered, and already they are reducing the black-
legs who helped them to swamp Unionism down to this,
with 4s. 2d. a day looming in the distance.
ft # #
A rich and representative mining-man from
England, whose operations in American gold and silver
mines are most extensive and profitable, alluding to the
sentences passed on the Broken Hill leaders, condemns
them as outrageously excessive, and says he cannot
imagine that in any other English-speaking country the
men, if convicted at all, would have received more than
three months’ imprisonment.
« # ft
It is the sometimes useful cableman who tells us
what has been kept dark at this end of the silver partner-
ship. At a London meeting of Broken Hill shareholders
“Mr. Mac Andrew announced that the cost of working the
mine under the new conditions had been reduced by a
third.” The strike is explained.
# # #
The Bulletin hears, on the authority of a
N. S. Wales M.P. interested in mining, that certain
of the mining fraternity intend sending away from Sydney
during the week to Broken Hill 100 men at a cost of £6
per man—all in the face of the fact that there are thou-
sands of men unemployed at the Hill. This is kicking the
down dog with a vengeance.
« ft *
The Australian Widows’ Fund Society (Melb.)
declines to swallow B. J. Fink’s ha’penny composition.
ft # •
The Bulletin hears on all sides “ there is going
to be a big gold boom.” Flattering unction 1 “ Let not
the wish” etc. Booms are not created on air though
they generally live thereupon. They must be born in
something sensational, nevertheless substantial, and they
can be nursed in iniquity, lying and all unrighteousness ;
but after the bitter experience of the too-recent past it
will take a mighty big sensational gold-mine to start one.
# * ft
One of the most miserable spectacles in Sydney
is the congregation of mining-bummers in Pitt-street.
Heaven knows on what they live. They will invariably
tell you there is a great boom in gold coming. They have
been saying so for years. They are magnificent liars, and
will talk glibly of tens of thousands of pounds while their
very clothes proclaim their own poverty.
# # #
The want of a more competent and practical
mining man in the N.S.W. mines department is again
evidenced by at least one of the names recommended for
a recent important appointment.
# * *
Charters Towers is now the Australian quartzo-
polis. The principal crushings for last month : Victory,
1030 tons, 50830z5.; Day Dawn Block, 2100 tons, 21960z5.;
Victoria, 520 tons, lOlOozs.; Golden Gate, 979 tons,
16340z5.; Brilliant and St. George, 782 tons, 7390z5.;
Queen Block, 248 tons, 6580z5.; Day Dawn P.C., 845 tons,
6250z5.; Craven’s Caledonia, 230 tons, 6150z5.; Brilliant
Block, 772 tons, 6110z5.; North East Queen, 310 tons,
5370z5.; Stockholm, 297 tons, 4560z5.
ft # ft
The Long Tunnel mine, Walhalla, Vie., is again
declaring dividends. It has already paid over a million
thus. Its dividends ceased some time back, and the mine
started on a big work preparatory to opening up new
ground; as time went on there many people thought
the celebrated claim was well nigh played out. Last
monthly cleaning-up has dispelled all|doubt: 435 tons for
1814 ozs.—a dividend of £1 per share on 2400 shares. The
crushing leaves nearly £2OOO in hand.
Mini and party—the four men who now own
the Oakey Creek mine at Wattle Flat, N.S.W.—have had
another thumping crushing—4oo ozs. from about 100
tons, not so much per ton as the last, but big enough to
give them £5O per week per man. They are all working
miners. Mini is an Italian who has spent half a life-time
on the field, and there is not a man in the district more
deserving of a big lift.
# • #
Beware of the man who insists upon leaving
mineral samples with you. If you obligingly become an
Involuntary bailee he will turn up after you have had a
general clearing-out and ask for their restoration. You
express regret at their being thrown out, whereupon he
will expatiate on their uniqueness and value apd serve
you with a writ, and the verdict will be based upon his
valuation. Never throwaway another man’s samples, but
throw him out when he offers to leave them.
# ft »
Things at Kookabookra, N.S.W., are said to be
“ looking up.” Bear Hill, Butchers Beef, and other
lovely mines are in its vicinity. The writer has been
there, and after spying out the mineral richness of Kooka-
bookra wondered why its name was changed. It teas
called Hell-hole.
The Nambucca Heads pyrites mine has
announced another cake of 170ozs.—but it is noticeable
that no tonnage is given. The shares have had a tre-.
mendous drop—from 30s. to 6d. They were never worth
305., but they are certainly worth more than 6d. as a pure
gamble.
* * *
It is published that Bear Hill mine is to be re-
opened in conjunction with an adjoining property, and
that a very much bigger battery is to be erected. We’ll
believe this only when we see it.
#
A Broken Hill strike-leader now says that three
weeks ago the strike-leaders tried privately to persuade
the unions to “off” the strike, but every union thus
appealed to said : “Fight on.” The public speeches were
necessarily in consonance with this position, and were
merely fiery bluster. If this be so, the leaders were the
led.
# * *
The depression sits heavily on the chest of the
Melbourne Stock Exchange Association. On the strength
of a profit of £55,000 in the boom year, 1888, the associa-
tion had its present magnificent premises built opposite the
old Exchange. This year the profits are £52 1 Income for
six yearslBB7, £6158 ; 1888, £54,853 ; 1889, £3133; 1890,
£19,256 ; 1891, £4033 ; 1892, £52.
* ft ft
To the end of last June, copper and copper-ore,
worth £15,867,000, had been exported from S. A. The fall
in prices has now virtually killed the industry.
ft # •
An action brought by the Bank of South Aus-
tralia against Sir Benjy Benjy and four other, as guaran-
tors for certain advances made to the defunct Imperial
Banking Co., throws further light on the elasticity of
Melbourne’s financial honour. One of the defences raised
is the plea that a considerable portion of the overdraft
was obtained for the illegal purpose of buying land, and
that the manager of the Bank of S.A., knowing that
Benjy and Co. oughtn't to borrow for said purpose, was
not entitled to recover. Shareholders in the Imperial
Banking Co. (defunct) have no doubt made a note of this
artless confession.
A. H. MALCOLM,
(Founder of the Australian Banking Co., &c.)
The question most ardently discussed in Queens-
land financial circles is—Will MTlwraith return from the
East before the big smash ?
ft ft ft
A great many Australian enterprises are being
prepared for flotation in London when things improve.
Amongst them is one for the disposal of Moorefleld, near
Liverpool (N.S.W.), which, according to W. J. Ferguson,
contains valuable deposits of coal.
# ft •
‘ ‘One whois on the game” has been turning inside-
out the expert reports of the Oallen Sluicing Co. The esti-
mate of the money required for water-lifting and pump-
maintenance appears to the present writer far too low.
“ One on the game ” might'justly have gone further still
and said the estimate of the value of the drift was too
high. It is useless to disguise the fact that to lift water
from the river is a gigantic undertaking. To do so in a
small way will result in ignominious failure simply because
the drift is not good enough unless worked on a big scale.
To talk of an average of a dwt. to a cubic yard is as far
from the truth as to say that interest on a big outlay in
pumping-machinery, maintenance and working expenses
can be defrayed by 3d. acubio yard. Where lots of water can
be got by gravitation the drift can be sent away for less
than 3d. Prospects showing several dwts. per load can
be had in many places near the bedrock, but the enormous
quantity of poorer ground above must be taken into con-
sideration. It is all more or less gold-bearing. Allowing
for everything, the writer believes there are hundreds of
millions of loads there which will average a shilling’s
worth of gold per load. That, if true, is such a big thing
that if it were in America or even Maoriland thousands of
loads would be going away daily, and £50,000 would be
considered a trifle if it w ould bring on to the drift a big
w'ater-supply.
# ft ft
The old Catherine Reef United, of Eaglehawk,
Bendigo, is gradually accumulating a reserve with the
hope of entering upon another dividend-era. Its last
crushing was 695 tons for 235 ozs. It is one of the big-
area claims of the district—we believe the biggest. A
quarter of a century ago it paid regular dividends, fort-
nightly, for years. It then had years of depression, but
was kept alive largely by public crushing. Its battery
consists of some 60 heads, and the main shafts and wind-
ing plants are big and powerful—£loo,ooo would not
cover the money expended in machinery, or a million the
money paid in wages. Small fortunes have been made
out of the ground in former years by tributors, but a
great number of them worked out small blocks of ground
at less than average wages. For fancy blocks, the writer
has seen as much as 33 per cent, gross royalty paid. It is
a mine with a history worth writing up.
# # *
Speaking of the Sunlight mine, the Mining
Standard says: “ The management is to be complimenled
for their determination not to work the mine for the
benefit of a lot of unionists w’ho have done more to handi-
cap mining at Hillgrove than all the royalties put
together.” A purely gratuitous insult to the miners of
Hillgrove, a great number of whom are out of work, and
who have never had a general strike, though they are
paid 2s. per week less than the miners of other N.S.W.
fields. Besides being insulting, the statement is false,
for while, so far, the Hillgrove mimrs have done nothing
to handicap mining there, one 10 per cent, royalty has
alone crushed one of the largest companies almost to
death.
# ft #
Yet another attempt is made to work the
Castlerag mine. You can never get the successful pro-
moters of a co. to admit that their mine has been proved
a duffer.
• * *
The patentees of the Lockwood-Chappie process
have selected the Sir Walter Scott mine, Cangi, Clarence
River district, for their experiments, and for the fiftieth
time we are told that, while by ordinary battery treat-
ment the stone barely averaged an ounce to the ton, by
the new process three or four are expected. There is
another thing that we are not told—in fact, it is always
concealed—namely, that the gold i n this mine is of very
low value.
G. H. Held, says he “ can now look across
the Pacific and see 70,000,000 of the Anglo-Saxon
race pulling down a discredited banner.” Not
with that eyeglass, George.
The power of a misplaced comma asserts
itself in the “European Intelligence” of Satur-
day week’s Argus. “The cholera, notwithstand-
ing was a great success.” ■
Apropos of recent charges of plagiarism,
James Payn charges Nature with plagiarising
wholesale. He accuses her of constantly intro-
ducing into her works incidents that have pre-
viously figured in his novels.
A French syndicate’s offer to build rail-
ways for Victoria, taking in payment 4 per cent.
Government bonds, has elicited a pompous cable,
to the effect that such a proposition would close
the London market to Victoria. Treasurer Berry
humbly bows. Australia is run to suit J. Bull,
and nobody else.
After all, Premier Griffith will probably
be glad to jump the Queensland Chief Justice-
ship. It is unlikely he will care to risk the
election chances of the future, after his North
Brisbane experience of ’BB. _ Griffith and Billy
Brookes were cocksure of victory. MTlwraith
was the only “ National ” —pah! how events make
the term stink now! —rival that dared to tackle
Sammy’s stronghold. Result; Two to one victory
for Mao., with irrefutable proofs that he would
have carried any nominee in with him. Had the
MTlwraith party then had the full courage of
its chances, unless Griffith sneaked into some
“ Liberal ” back-pocket constituency, the Banana-
land Assembly would not have seen his lean and
angular form since that time.
J. E. Jenkinson, the new
Maoriland M.L.C., has, at least,
one good deed to his credit. Some
12 years ago, a huge, rambling,
wooden structure, occupied by about
a dozen tenants, was burnt down in
the Octagon, Dunedin. The ram-
shackle building blazed like a vol-
cano, and several people who got
lost in the winding passages or
among the labyrinth of stairs were
frizzled to death. Jenkinson, who
was one of the occupants, pioneered
some of his companions out, and
then went back into the blast
furnace with another volunteer,
and between them they brought out
two girls from among the ruins.
Then they went back again to fish
for the girls’ father—Mr. Wilson,
of the Otago Witness—but that
gentleman and his wife were only
recovered as cinders.
It is noticeable that many
distinguished Frenchmen are of
foreign extraction, and are usually
of Jewish blood. To the names
of Gambetta, Schneider, Weiss,
Walewsky, Massena, Waddington,
McMahon, and Macdonald, we
have to add that of Zola, whose
father was an Italian.
Cole, of Melbourne Book
Arcade, is publishing all sorts of
revelations bearing upon the Wilfrid
Hall cure, at a “ tanner ” the book.
For sixpence less he could give the
cure away completely.
Sir Henry Parkes says that “ Mr. Grover
Cleveland is the very model of a high-minded,
clear-minded, true-hearted, and courageous, honest
man.’’ Remembering the fate of the last man
that Parkes (on his oath, too) gave a character to,
the probabilities now seem to point towards poor
Cleveland’s getting into gaol at an early date.


At Woollahrayou can buy GNUN Darlings.^
General elections —smoke GNUN Darlings.
STOVE POLISH
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THE WORLD,
dgf
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
LABOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO Packets of the “RISING
SUN ” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
B
xi i
mmnssmum
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.:
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers. ’ (
A BEILLIANT COMPLEXION
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
17"anish. lilies IS/. Cagic
By a few applications of
professor Devon’s (Complexion potion.
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
olear the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. ISF” Beware of worthless counterfeits—they
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
ss, 6d«, Stamps or P. 0.0.
Prof. DEVON,
20 Castlerbagh Street (City), SYDNEY.
For bedsteads, children’s cots,
Spring Mattresses and Bedding.
GO TO
LAWLERS,
608 George-street.
FOR Austrian, American and Cane CHAIRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and Balcony Seats;
for Camp Folding Bedsteads, with Woven Wire
Spring Mattresses.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
F — or“carpets, linoleumsT FLOOR-
CLOTHS, Rugs, Mats, Blinds, Matting
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Materials, Tapestries,
Plushes, Gimps and Cords, etc.
GO TO
LAWLER’S.
OR - TOILET SETS, CHINA, GLASS-
WARE, Dinner and Tea Sets, Cups and
Saucers, Cruets, Cutlery and Plated-ware, Mangles,
Copper Boilers and Stoves.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
For hallTiM library furniture,
Dining and Drawing Room Furniture,
Bedroom and Kitchen Furniture,
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
Write for Estimates. _____
bH N LAWLER and SONS
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinetmakers,
608 GEORGE STREET. Established 1860.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES Free by
post on application addressed to the Head Office of
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
608 George-street.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize m
AT THE
(jrand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
‘■BUDS” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: MCCARTHY A CO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
MicCiARXIIY & CO., Tobacco MercHants,
C 69 GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
SOUTH AXNANDALE.
The “ WEST END ” of the CITY of SYDNEY T
Unequalled Building Sites for Villa Houses, Terraces, or Palatial Residences.
THE SALE OF THE CENTURY!
Bv order of Trustees of JOHNSTON ESTATE, SOUTH ANNAN DALE. Ninety-seven Years
-> in the Johnston Family. The Title is under Torrens Real 1 roperty Act.
DAY of SALE, on the Ground, SATURDAY NEXT,
19th instant, at Two o’clock.
nnilF AUCTIONEERS who are favoured with the conduct of this important sale are W. Pritchard
JL ' and Son, who would remind the Public that their positive instructions are to sell this
IMPORTANT & VALUABLE PROPERTY WITHOUT RESERVE,
And upon the following Unprecedentedly Liberal Terms, viz.,
ONE-TENTH of the purchase-money CASH, and the Balance or any portion may remain for Ten
Years bearing interest at the rate of Five (5) per cent, per annum, payable half-yearly; or the
Balance may be paid off, with interest to date, AT 1 AN\ TIME, when a Free Transfer of
Title will be given by the Vendors.
RW To ensure the immediate health and comfort of mirchasers who desire to build at once, the
Sr , V,, L, Vl> onhaidised the Government of New South Wales and the Municipality of Petersham to
ormhaoi <«»»■
ments to Stanmore Station, Formation, Ballasting, Kerbing and Guttering the whole of the Streets,
and Asphalting the Footpaths, which are nearly completed. . .•
The Buyer of any Lot will have the privilege of taking (at the time of sale) as many consecutive
lots as he may think proper at the same price. ...... , • u *•
The nurchaser or purchasers of whole sections will have the right of closing the lane in such sections.
Although this Estate is so well-known and universally admired by travellers in tram or tram, to
be thoroughly appreciated it should be visited and closely inspected on the ground.
"its- BEAR IN MIND THIS SALE, and Inspect the Land prior thereto.
Litho. Plans may be obtained from W. PRITCHARD and SON, 100 King Street, Sydney.
NEXT SATURDAY.
Established 1876.
d dgf
WRITE FOR
D R
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ASTHMA^
o
ď dgf
Agents
Melbourne
Rocke.TompsiTlt-(
Sydney: Biiottßro?
Brisbane: EiTiottßroisfi
A o elai'o’e 'EHTauidir
Wellington' HZ Shar
harfand & C? , «9*S>,
UCKLAND
iff send Treatise and Testimonials Fr
nnyAddre.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from hashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &0., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S 'Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon. Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
x Dr.
M. PERRY,
M.R.C.S.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
&c.,
S-‘nd for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CUKE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 t) 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS ME
EUREKA
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness,' Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints, The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Free Frescriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
GOLDEN SHAN T Y-
Neatl v Rrmid in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydnev.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Medical.
Dr. mCZXARDS.
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
wmm
Q
%
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
SPECIAL COMPLAINTS.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may he eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hij
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly w r ell, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO SEND
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed ;
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION UKEE.
The famous Douro estate (Yass, N.S.W.),
the property of the late Henry O’Brien, will, we
hear, be sold after shearing, a few weeks hence.
The estate will probably be auctioned in one piece
excepting a small portion nearest the town, which
will be divided into allotments.
Giles, M.L.A., of South Australia, states
that the Broken Hill strike was a judgment on
that province for passing the Free Education Act.
There is a rumour that a Chinaman leper
was taken to Little Bay lazarette from one of the
Sydney hospitals some six weeks ago; and a few
weeks afterwards, from the same bed, a leper boy
of 15. What an item (if true) for the leprosy
columns of the Sunday papers !
“ The biggest Freetracle meeting ever seen
in Sydney,” did not dare in cither of the resolutions
adopted for cabling to the United States to use the
word “ Freetrader Had they done so, President
Cleveland’s reply would have covered them with
confusion. The chiefs of that meeting don’t feel
as chirpy as they talk.
Said Eyeglass Reid at the Sydney-Free-
trade-CIeveland - congratulation - whoop- meeting :
“ In all our battles for Freetrade two great ex-
amples were held up against us —America and the
great colony of Victoria; and where are they
now?” This ignorance is disgraceful. Reid will
find them on the map just where they used to be,
and they haven’t shown any signs of moving.
The barrister who rises in a crowded meeting to
ask where America is breaks all records for
illiteracy.
At the meeting of foreign-traders, in
Sydney the other night, to celebrate Grover Cleve-
land’s election, one James Martin referred to
Parkes as the author of the ballot scheme under
which the American victory had been won. Now,
Parkes is emphatically not the author of the Aus-
tralian ballot. It was William Nicholson, of
the old Victorian Legislative Council, and he
was aided in giving it effect in law by Higin-
botham, O’Shanassy, Heales, each antipodean
in politics to Parkes. We shall next hear of
Parkes as being the author of the Home Rule
Bill.
A great Sydney land sale takes place
to-day (Saturday) at South Annandale, adjacent
to Stanmore railway-station, and less than three
miles from Redfern terminus. The Johnston
estate, which has been held by the Johnston
family for ninety-seven years, or almost since the
foundation of the province, is to be disposed of
by auction, on the ground, without any reserve or
any possible shadow of doubt whatever. The
terms are ten per cent, cash, and the balance to
remain for any time up to ten years, at 5 per cent,
per annum, payable half-yearly, which conditions
break all past records in the matter of profuse
liberality, and the buyer of any lot has the
privilege of taking any number of consecutive lots
which may be unsold, at the same figure. When
a property goes without reserve the prospects
of anything being left over for private disposal are
about nil
That fine old capitalist,' Mr. Thomas
Buckland, of Sydney, speaking on behalf of the
National Ass to the N.S.W. Attorney-General,
the other day, said :
He had taken notice of the sort of people now assuming
the direction of affairs in these public meetings and
strikes, and he had failed to find among them any number
of people who might properly he called inhabitants of the
country. He had not met six native-born Australians
who were concerned in these strikes.
Mr. Buckland might have added that he didn’t
notice half-a-dozen native-born Australians
among the Labour members either. Why
must Australia import its democrats? Some-
thing like 70 per cent, of the N.S.W.
population is Australian by birth, but the
native-born politician seems almost always to be a
Tory, and generally a lawyer. Taking N.S.
Wales, G. Republican Dibbs is a native, for
example; so are Slattery, O’Connor, and Edmund
Barton, and most of the Dibbs-Barton Cabinet;
so is Ringnose Wise ; so was Dailey, the loyalist
and Privy Councillor; and the rest are mostly
built after the same pattern. The proportion of
natives among the fine, reliable Tories of the
House is fully three times as great as among the
Democrats. What is the matter with the Young
Australian ? Is he born a Tory, or is he simply
too busy hanging about “totes” and saving up
his money for next Melbourne Cup to take an
interest in politics?


Hegistered
VITALITY PILLS
Registered.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
GOLD MEDAL.
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS
PURELY HERBAL
FSRBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DISCOVERE3D
and
REGISTERED
by
GOLD MEDAL
Cured. Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWORN TESTIMONY.
Statutory
|||||
Declaration.
IIHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :—
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nex’ves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
f, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassxnussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALPALINE
I*ILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained w T ell ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. W hiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen.—I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Debility of twenty-two years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.—
Wm, Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that
your Alfaline Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. — John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me ud,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen —I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both in my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.- Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassrn ,ssen.—Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.— F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.— A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 1G0
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually macUs the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.— J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.— P. H. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers ; I have found them to be worth their weight
in gpld.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sol® Proprietor,
X
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Banish Herbalist,
Author of the “Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the ‘‘Centennial History of
N. S- Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure.
Boxes—Os. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Pills.
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases.
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. Cd. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed In cure Costivcness and the Liver and Kidneys. Coxes posted t«. 6d.,
;te., 6s. and 235. Cel.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colels. Boxes
posted, 35., Cs., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., Cs. and 28s. Cd.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and Cs.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off. Posted
3s. and Cs.
Herr Rassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALKALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
‘‘Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
loinnng many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
R '^ ssmi } ssen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
Nubs J
Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
-Health and Happiness.”—“ Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
, Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
Tifn™ 8 R !a: n xj n Y U ?£° require an y additional praise from
1 RUTH. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled. ’’—Truth.
H Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
ft ' U holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
nearlv in en la ® heei l establish ed in the colonies for
neaily 10 years. —Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them, Mr
® ° aS ° “ the ™ ost and Ids remedies
vav^bim'nn 111 A SIX f Y eeks ’ . afte . r - many Sydney doctors
gave aim up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “ doctors ” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
suffering humanity.’’-Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD.
Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world—are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”— The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, !)th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that Ins Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Gold Medal for Ins Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
bea,s successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales. —The Essen den and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser.—lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
Parliament House, Sydney,
Herr Rassmu'sen,—Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica ’ I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number’of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility
which was considered incurable.— Wm. 11. Bishop New
Reely Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood ■
Nervous Diseases, Piles and all Irr ■gularities 'of the System
guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind, brdin
couise, 235. (>d. posted. Special powerful double course 435.
posted. Boxes ,at Cs. and 12s.
Chief Head Depot:
547 G-EOEG-E STREET,
SYDNEY.
tW~ MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Head Depot:
150 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
IW" Remedies sent Duly Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
t-P*" Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
Q,TJEE IST STEEE T,
BRISBANE.
IS 1 " Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALFA LINE
REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE OBTAINED FROM THE ABOVE-MENTIONED DEPOTS.
“ Tli3 KTatural Doctor.”
:V Valuable mi l Lit resting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. Posted, Is,
May bo obtained from all Depots.
Important.
Always send money by P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same. All correspondence-
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “The Alfaline Medical Guide” sent free
receipt of addressed and 2d. stamped envelope. ’ "


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
1 3 everywhere recommended as the best rem-
edy for the care of scrofula, scrofulous and
cancerous humors, chronic catarrh, eczema,
boils, pimples, sores, and all disorders origina-
ting in impure blood. It neutralizes and elimi-
nates the acids that cause rheumatism, gout,
and dropsy. It regulates the liver and kidneys,
gives tone to the stomach, increases the appe-
tite, aids digestion,
Cures Dyspepsia,
and makes the weak strong. No other blood
purifier is composed of such carefully selected,
highly concentrated, and skilfully united in-
gredients. For nearly half a century this prep-
aration has, in both hemispheres, been the
standard tonic and strengthening medicine. It
is universally approved by the medical profes-
sion, and benefits the enfeebled system at all
seasons of the year.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,Mass.,U.S. A
Sold by all Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
Cures others, will cure you
BR
Full music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
đf dgf
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
4XI. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [inG. 579 in B.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in P.
569. Maggie Murphy's Home.
585. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in 0.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 in P.
618. Remember now thy Creator.
619, Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. The Country Wedding BarnDanoe
THE HOLBORN MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 1845] TRADE supplied. [Est. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
Jl PerfeetFood.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
4k'
«.' v V
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
TUTALTED MILK is the best food for In-
-I*l fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
IWTALTED MILK, as a food for In-|
111 valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
ďgf dgf
(REGISTERED).
SW The only thoroughly
reliable ‘Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
AND
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Stref.t, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
ST. BERNARD’S.
A FEW GOOD PUPS by M'Leod’s BRUCE,
by WALLACE (imported), out of my
Bitch UNA, by Champion MONK. Well-marked
and healthy.
W. SANDERS,
Australia Street, Woollahra
(near Bondi Junction).
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love>
and cooling as his fan.
ANDREW USHER Ss CO.'S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under :
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VATTED GLENLIVET WHISKY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve."
BLAKE A KIGGAIL, Solicitors.
120 William-st., Melb
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
L m
hk
Lancet,
o’ A
Jk
St. John’s Works, London W.C.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.R.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
ses Maialockchei
liljfif ibeVa l '*)
STWLOHSf
jnjia «i B "
LOHS E'S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY-
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all lyigly elass'perfumcrs.
GUSTAV LOHSE.Berlin.
Men, women, and children all do say GNUN
Darlings the best smoke of the day.
Miscellaneous.
A GREAT REDUCTION.
Weigel’s Journal of Fashion.
—i
Subscription:
Yearly .. 4/-
Half-yearly .. 2/6
Single Copy .. 6Jd.
Catalogues, containing
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Post Free:
payable
in advance.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPER
PATTERNS of DRESSES,
MANTLES, etc., sold from 3d. to
2s. Sent post tree on receipt of
postal note or postage stamps from the principal offices.
Sydney 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway),
Melbourne ~ 99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
SYDNEY CATERING CO.
(LIMITED),
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS
DINING and LUNCHEON ROOMS,
Under the superintendence of a high-class Chef.
MAGNIFICENT BAR.
(Upstates.)
With BILLIARD ROOM contiguous, containing
Four of the most modern Tables.
Sporting.
TATTERS ALL'S
WARWICK HANDICAP.
Hun at Warwick Farm, November 19, 1892.
5000 at 10 5000
ROSEHILL DECEMBER HANDICAP.
Run at Rosehill, December 3, 1892.
10.000 at 10 10,000
s xr m: is/. e er. cxj p.
Run at Rand wick, Decetnler 26, 1892.
50,000 at 10 50,000
Carrington Stakes.
Run at Randwiok, December 31, 1892.
50.000 at 10 50,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
receipt for registration till you receive our reply. Address,
Tattersall, care of George Adams (owner), Pittst., Sydney.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
ROSEHILL DECEMBER HANDICAP.
Run December 3rd.
At 5 each 10,000 At 5 each
THE SUMMER CUP-26th DECEMBER.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
Fiist, 1500 ; Second, 600: Third, 300; S. (d.), 600;
N.S. (d.), 400 ; 20 at 20, 400 ; 30 at 10, 300 ; 100 at 5, 500 ;
100 Consolations at 2 each ; 200 at 1 each.
TATTERSALL’S CUP— 2nd JANUARY.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
State amount enclosed, and two stamped-addressed
envelopes with application — one for receipt and the
other for result. Register your letters. Stamps will be
received if 5 per cent, exchange is added with L.ll amount.
Address: GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Printed circulars free.
WORTH KNOWING.
“ Its fame, like gold, the more ’tis tried,
The more shall its intrinsic worth proclaim 1
WORLD WIDE.
99
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC.”
The celebrated and only safe, sure and
speedy ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
Tho SYSTEM ONCE IMPREG-
NATED BY THIS REMEDY THE
USE OF ALCOHOL MUST CEASE.
THOUSANDS PROVE IT.
The “ Golden Specific ” neutralises the effect of
alcohol and promptly corrects and stays its use. It
supplies the place of the accustomed liquor and
prevents that absolute physical and moral prostration
which so frequently follows the sudden discontinuance
of stimulating drinks. Prepared in both powiler
and liquid form according to the formula of Dr.
Haines. Hundreds In the colonic* have
the “©-olden Specific” in owe and testify
to its complete efficacy and success. Read the scores
of Testimonials received by us daily from all parts.
TO THE DIPSOMANIAC.
The “ ©olden Specific” is a positive and certain
antidote to drink and cure* the wont case*.
TAKE IT IN TIME. SEND FOR OUR BOOK.
SciEWriAOwiXVINCIT
Golden
w:
ANTI
DRINK
Keif'S
Si
?»AND*n nils
lcohoi-
VERSUS
he Demon Drink.
The arknowleds-cd cur© for
Drunkenness
or the liquor habit, inehriacy and alcoholism
(in any form). Can I*© siven secretly or other
wise. Placed in a Cup of Tea or Coffee, or in food, its
Eresence cannot be noticed. Warranted perfectly
armless and easy to administer. It operates so
quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his
complete reform is effected. An overdose Is
harmless ami it docs not impair or
injure the health in any way.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE.
Write for book of particulars and colonial testimo-
nials, sent post free on rece'pt of stamp Beware of
Imitations. We have no Agents.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our orly Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC 00.,
145 and 147 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
READ THIS 1 1!
The Cry of a Clod.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Show us a sign, Great God ! Show us a symbol
sure
That our last farewell to earth is not our good-
bye to breath ;
That the soul—if a soul there be - through the ages
will endure,
That the tomb brings only a change and not an
eternal death.
Show us that ’yond the grave is the Eden that
Adam trod—
Show us our dead again ! Show us a sign, Great
God !
Must our beautiful be given for aye to the worm
and moth ?
Must those true eyes we love be closed for ever
one day ?
Must sage and clown go down—mortal and done-
for —both ?
In all the gloom of the grave oanst thou not
show one ray—
One ray from the Heaven above the hole in the
eager sod ?
Show us a sign to believe! Show us a sign,
Great God !
Dead are they all who are gone? None are come
back to tell
Tales of the joy or woe of the life that comes
after death.
Consciousness all we crave, whether in heaven or
hell—
All that we ask is that Thou shouldst not dry
up our breath.
Pity us all, Oh, King ! Maker of back and rod ;
Give us a symbol sure! Give us a sign, Great
God !
Gone are our fathers all, who worshipped the
chance of life—
Mythical chance has it been ?—of that life that
succeeds the grave—
Gone without ever a sign, mother and daughter
and wife,
And has their belief availed one soul from its
doom to save?
Ah, God, who makest us all, list to the cry of a
clod!
Shall we see our beloved again ? Give us a sign,
Great God !
O ! Being created because of man’s longing to
live again !
0 ! Being alleged to be Love, and dooming us
worms of woe,
Wilt Thou relent and prove to the Living who
pant in pain
The place where their loved have gone the
place where they too must go ?
Dig out the floors of our graves—illumine the
callous sod !
Give us our journey’s plan. Show us a sign,
Great God !
Korumburra, Vic.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Anyone who desired a good talking-parrot
could have bought one cheap the other day. One
of the best-known of N.S.W. Judges wanted a
parrot, a good conversationalist. Hearing there
were some grey-Africans on board an incoming
steamer he went to inspect them. One of the
quarter-masters had a couple of birds, and he was
introduced to one of them. In response to the
blandishments of the Judge and his owner the
bird refused to utter a sound, but there was a leer
in his eye as much as to say, “ I’m not one of your
milk - and - water, pretty - cockey, soratch-a-poll
parrots.” Tired of it at last, the Judge turned to
leave, when a blast of profanity, couched in a
hoarse voice, was hurled at him, which made him
start. The bird had an evil habit of never speak-
ing until he saw his interrogator turn his back,
and then he cursed him in the choice English of
the refined deck-hand. That bird would never
do, so the quarter-master begged his Honor to
inspect another. This one proved to be a mild
kind of bird suitable for a convent, who murmured
gently a few inane sentences. The price was too
high—JAs. The Judge offered £lO, but the ship
had only just come in and the sailor man thought
he could get more. A few days afterwards, how-
ever, he turned up at the Judge’s residence with
the parrot, expressing his willingness to take the
£lO. The Judge bought the bird, and he was
being duly examined in the hall when one of the
ladies asked the man if the birds lived to an old
age. "I should think so, ma’am,” returned the
sailor, then on the eve of departure ; “ them kind
of birds lives to be as old as Methoosalah,” and he
closed the door. “ Methoosalum hum! Methoo-
salutn !” echoed a scornful voice. “G d
Methusalum!” and forthwith the bird went
through the whole of his profane vocabulary,
ending with more contemptuous references to
“ Methoosalum,” and his probable chance of
eternal happiness. It was the hard-swearing
parrot the sailor had delivered. Polly was hustled
into a back room, but even then his expressions
were audible throughout the house, whenever he
heard footsteps in the hall. Visitors, on enter-
ing, were received with a muffled outburst of
curses and dismissed with a whirlwind of objurga-
tion. Nay, the wicked report got about that it
was a relation of the Judge who had at times to
be confined in the back-room. Anyone wanting a
good profane parrot as a present for a clergyman
could have got one for a song. He was given away
at last—to an old maiden lady, who is “ sitting-
up ” by now.
His Mate's Wife.
(FOR THE BULLELTIN.)
They lived together in perfect happiness. Their
child alone shared the love of either.
He was sober and hard-working, and in a good
situation.
She was attentive to her home, and not extra-
vagant, so they saved money.
And yet the catastrophe came !
It was his best friend who did it. He was
always at the house in the evening. They played
cards together.
How they came together she could not tell. The
husband had gone for the supper-beer, and, re-
turning, saw through the open window —
“You take her and half the furniture; I will
take the rest—and the child,” he said. Nothing
more.
A brawl in the street, a drunken man kicking a
fallen woman.
A man with a child in his arms passes by. The
screaming woman appeals to him for help. The
man ceases to beat her, but does not meet the
gaze of the passer-by.
“ That’s right, Jack, kick her well, she will love
you all the more.”
LORN FLACK.


At Balmain you can buy 6NUN Darlings.
At
North Shore you can buy GNUN
Darlings.
At Redtern you can buy GNUN Darlings.
The stormy weather of the last two months
should now be at an end, and we should get
a spell of sunshine. Now, a change of this kind
will have its effects on the human system, and
colds and coughs are sure to predominate.
Be in time and get some “ MARUPA ” in the
house, and save yourself from the very unpleasant
feelings of a cold in the head or throat.
“ MARUPA ” is a good friend, and will not see
you left.
“When slovens gel* Hdy they polish the
bottoms of thepansV-When
vAi',
iCOCVRi«riT4
never tired of cleaning up
Two servants in two neighboring houses dwelt,
But differently their daily labor felt;
jaded and weary of her life was one,
Always at work, and yet ’twas never done.
The other walked out nightly with her beau,
But then she cleaned house with SAPOLIO.
SOLD BY GEOCEES, CHEMISTS, AND lEONMONGEES.
HONOURABLE TREATMENT.
M
lilU
mm
VHP
J? J •*-,-,=• -=5=S--~ 3?
•S . r- %
%i agar:
Yours, for Health, W. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
The OLDEST and ORIGINAL,
Practice Established 46 Tears,
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff, Roya
Engineers, registered in England and Australia,
AND AUTHORISED BY ACT OE PARLIAMENT TO PRACTISE IN
ALL THE BRANCHES OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY, is HOW
permanently located at
No. 121 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men, I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so fhat all in need of medical
skill may have the benefit of my experience. Con-
sultation is free to all, but when £1 is enclosed, a
careful diagnosis of the case will be made, and appro-
priate medicines sent.
My life-long experience, extending over 40 years,
and practical method of treatment insure a speedy
and permanent cure in all
Special Diseases.
No experimenting, both Sexes consult confidentially.
Neurasthenia or Debility, Organic
Weakness, Lack of Energy, Failing
Memory, Physical Decay,
Treated with success, safely and privately.
Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted
Development, Pains in the Back, etc.
BLOOD & SKIN DISEASES,
al! forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful
Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Remedies. Stiff and Swollen Joints
and Rheumatism, the result of Blood Poison, CUKCiD, Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treated
successfully. Rupture instantly relieved and permanently cured. Surgeon Langston’s Electric Quadrant with
double compress and supports, price £2. Fits, Epilepsy, or failing sickness radically cured. I use only the be t
remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders and specious promised cure-alls— they are useless, and
often dangerous. Every case requin 8 specially prepan d treatment. All ai e treated with skill in a respectful manner ■
and knowing what to do, no Experiments are mad 3. Home Treatment.. Persons ailing at a distance can be
successfully treated at home. Those requiring Immediate Treatment can, by forwarding particulars of
their case and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post. Before confiding your case elsewhere, Consult the
Old and Successful Specialist, Surgeon Langston, age and experience important. A friendly
letter or call may save future suffering, and add grlden yeais to life. No mercury or Poisonous drugs
used. New edition of my latest work, “Mens Sana in Corpore Sane,” 68 pages, sent free to men.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., k,
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.— The Only qualified Surgeon piactising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments,
W CONSULTATION FREE.
I
mm-
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.,
201 MACQUARIE STREET NORTH 201
(OPPOSITE PARLIAMENT HOUSE),
SYDNEY.
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over TWENTY YEARS in the STUDY and PRACTICE
—OF—
CHRONIC DISEASES,
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and
Vienna, and in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the Edinburgh Royal’ Infirmary
Maternity and Lock Hospitals. No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical degrees
which can be compared with his. Such eminent qualification*, together with his recognised straight-
forward treatment, have naturally gained for him the reputation of being the
Only Legally Qualified Doctor
advertising in these colonies who combines with special knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily
be ascertained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
ALL MEN, YOUNG AND OLE,
Suffering from indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpitation, singing and pains in the ears and
head, specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened memory, pains in the back and chest, diseases of
the bladder, kidneys or liver, rheumatism, impure blood, stricture, nervousness and lassitude, should
lose no time in consulting him, since he has, by long experience and thorough investigation of
their nature, discovered the safest treatment for their permanent cure. In many cases, the Consulta-
'tion Fee (by letter) of
£1 is all tliat Is R.eq.uired..
! ti yc r
Persons residing at a distance may bo treated at their own homes, without any interruption to their
business, by giving a full and clear description of their symptoms, and the necessary medicines will be
forwarded to them. On receipt of 2/6, Dr. Paterson will forward his well-known IVledioal Treatise.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
EVERY EVENING and UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
will be produced, by special arrangement
with Mr. J. C. Williamson,
“THE SILVER KING."
Mr. Geo. Rignold as Wilfred Denver.
Assisted hy an Exceptionally Powerful Cart.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
gdOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Proprietor .. .. Mr. Wst. LArMouk.
Every Sunday Afternotin
* High* class and Enjoyable t'oiicrrt. *
Quadrille Assembly every Wednesday Afternoon.
The Marble Swimming Baths now Open.
Ladies from 10 till 2 Daily.
IJIHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedj', or dramatic bom panics, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
All Raihoay Travelling. AYS
Apply for particulars, cable address—“ OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. B.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
dgf ďf
READ THIS OFFER,
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
(id., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 655., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS : —Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. To be obtained through
any music-seller or stationer in Australia, or direct from
J. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-street. Cheapest Music
Warehouse in Australia. Illustrated catalogues and par-
ticulars posted FREE.
II
Tiic poor Barmaid having
* a little hit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
| X oio ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
I a Sydney Barmaid
! To be had only of
Mdfai. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
FOR SALE OR LEASE.
Brisbane Theatre Royal
AND
HOTEL.
Apply Medley Hawkins, Darragh's Buildings,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
T ourist Season
AT
KANGAROO VALLEY and FITZROY FALLS,
riio COMMERCIAL HOTEL (T. IIilks), Kangaroo
\ alley, has every convenience for Tourists visiting the
unsurpassed scenery of MOSS VALE, FITZROY Fa > ‘
BARHENGARRY and CAMBEWAKHA MOUfJTAinS
en route to Nowraand Kiama. n '■
Ihe legalised slave-dhow, May, has
arrived from the South Seas with 64 male and
3 female slaves, to be “christianised” in the
Queensland cane-brake.
Grainger (S.A.) was advocating that news-
papers should be supplied to the prisoners in the
Stockade. Rounsevell : “Why, newspapers are
considered luxuries.” Grainger: “No! the daily
newspapers have now passed the bounds of luxury
and have become a necessity.”
Bruce Smith says that the National Ass
won’t make so many objections under the new
Electoral Act because the penalty for frivolous
and vexatious objection is now weighty. George
Black pointed out that the virtue which was
brought about by fear of punishment and mone-
tary loss was nothing to boast of, and argued that
if the bogus objector could be thus easily re-
strained, the bogus voter would surely be got
rid of altogether in face of fines for fraudulent
voting of .£lOO or six months imprisonment.
The overcrowded state of N.S. Wales
Civil Service is alarming the taxpayers; and
throwing various overpaid officials into a state
of continuous unrest —until the estimates are
passed. A non-political Civil Service board; no
fresh appointments for four or five years; and
thenceforward a Parliamentary return of each
appointment, with the reasons assigned therefor,
might at least palliate the existing disease. A
return has just been tabled which shows how nicely
certain families have run certain offices.
Still More Testimony
FOR
MOTHER AUBERT'S REMEDIES.
The Waibarapa Daily.,
(October 17, 1891.)
A firm hold throughout the length and breadth
of New Zealand has now been gained by the
Aubert Remedies, and their efficacy in ordinary
cases of illness has been irrefutably established.
Even with the most severe manifestations of liver
and kidney complaints and of apparently chronic
asthma and bronchial affections, they are cal-
culated to speedily remove the troublesome
symptoms. Their success in this direction is
plainly vouched for in the striking testimonials
we publish in another column. There is a feature
in these certificates, too, which is as convincing as
it is unusual, and that is the fact of their all being
openly signed by the persons who have received
benefit. This at once is an evidence of good faith
which must carry weight. The success of Marupa
as a cure for whooping-cough is as well known as
to need no further remark, while as a general
tonic Karana is almost equal in repute. We com-
mend a perusal of the experience of others, as
published elsewhere in this issue, to those who are
suffering from any form of ill-health. The Aubert
Remedies can be obtained from druggists in
almost every part of New Zealand, so widespread
has become the demand for them. There need be
no hesitation in giving the preparations a trial,
for they are guaranteed by the manufacturers to
be purely herbal, and to be most carefully com-
pounded in strict accordance with the receipt and
instructions of the Reverend Mother Mary Joseph
Aubert, whose wonderful cures with them in the
Wanganui and Napier districts for some years
back have been a subject of thankful wonder, and
have secured her much gratitude in acknowledg-
ment of her devoted skill. Mother Aubert has
made a special study of New Zealand herbs, and
it is the remarkably successful application of her
discoveries that has led to the remedies being
placed in the open market with such gratifying
results.
Catholic Times.
(November 6, 1891.)
MOTHER MARY AUBERT’S REMEDIES,
In this week’s issue will be found an alteration
in the advertisement of Mother Mary Joseph
Aubert’s Remedies. It is astonishing how rapid
has been the growth in popular favour of these
medicines. The proprietor, Mr. Kempthorne,
has already received such encouragement that he
intends going over shortly to Australia to arrange
for the sale of Mother Aubert’s Medicines through-
out the other colonies, where most probably they
will become very popular. It cannot be doubted
that there is great virtue in these medicines,
otherwise so many flattering testimonials would
not be given. The proprietor has entered into
this business with great spirit, and has already
spent a very large sum of money in advertising,
and although it will be some considerable time
before this can be recovered he is very sanguine of
the ultimate results.
It is safe to say that no remedies have so quickly
become popular with the general public, and at
the same time have achieved such extraordinary
and daily increase in sale.
It is now generally admitted that the medicines
are all that Mother Mary Joseph Aubert claims
for them. This good lady has done more than any
other person in this colony in research among
vegetation for medicinal remedies, and it is be-
coming a widespread belief that all complaints of
the human system can be cured by herbal treat-
ment.
We wish the proprietor every success in this
deserving undertaking.
Wellington, August 25, 1891.
Messrs Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.
Dear Sirs,—Having used two bottles of Marupa
for my son, aged six years, who had a severe
attack of whooping-cough, I can confidently
recommend it as the very best medieine in effect
ing an almost immediate cure.—Yours truly,
O. W. Gauntlktt.
Invercargill, Nov. 27, 1891
Mr. Kempthorne.
Dear Sir,—Please send me another gross of
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert’s Remedies. I find
they all sell remarkably well, particularly Paramo.
Those who get it once come back for more.—'
Yours truly,
C. H. Macalister, Chemist.
Meanee, Hawkes Bay, Sept. 9, 1891.
To Sister Mary Joseph Aubert.
I write to express my gratitude for the benefit
myself and family have derived from your
medicines, and can say that their effects were
really marvellous.
William Farrar.
WILL POWER
OBSTINACY OR FIRMNESS.
A STORY OF A STRONG-MINDED MAN.
We once knew a strong-minded man. He
claimed that he possessed to an extraordinary
degree the moral attribute of firmness. His
friends and acquaintances maintained that he was
stubborn. “Pig-headed,” “mulish,” were among
the epithets they used towards him when dis-
cussing his character. But firmness, like pride,
sometimes “ goetli before a fall,” and one day our
friend struck a snag and now—well, we’ll tell the
story “as it was told to” us. There is in the
city a gang of young business men who during
these dull times have a considerable amount of
spare time on their hands. A good deal of this
spare time they occupy in playing practical jokes,
sometimes on one another, sometimes on any one
they can get. Not long since a genius conceived
the idea of soldering k shilling to thfe head of a
spike, which was afterwards driven down tight
between two paving-stones till the shilling
appeared to be innocently lying on the pavement
awaiting the lynx eye of some passer-by. The
jokers lying in ambush hadn’t long to wait, and
in less than an hour quite a number of people
tried to pick up the coin. Our firm friend came
along at last, and he had a try, and like the rest
was “ had.”
“Seventy-three!” yelled the members of the
gang who were keeping tally.
Our friend smiled sickly and passed on.
A few hours later, the matter hating parsed
from his mind, he, while jigging merrily along,
saw the delusive “ bob,” and made a second dive.
“Two hundred and ninety-two!” shrieked the
gang.
Then the firm man swore a great swear.
“To-night when all is silent and the street is
dark and drear I will return and chop off that
shilling or per-r-r-rish.’*
And he did return ; to find that the jocular ones
had touched off the shilling with a hot soldering-
iron and had had their fun for nothing, while he
had nought for his trouble but about 400 gallons
of disappointment and an attack of rheumatism
brought on by coming through the rain for the
vanished shilling. About the best thing he could
have done then was to have followed the example
of thousands of suffering mortals who, when
similarly suffering, turned to St. Jacobs in their
agony and sought relief from the oil. When pain
and anguish wring the brow St. Jacob is always
ready to do the ministering angel act; so that no
family should be without a supply of the oil in the
house. Athletes in training and others exposed
to hard exercise find the oil beneficial in the treat-
ment of sprains and bruises. Sufferers from
rheumatism, sciatica, and neuralgia acknowledge
the benefit derived from the application of St.
Jacobs oil. In fact, people in every walk of life
testify to its admirable properties, and gratefully
write us to that effect.


CLARKE’S PATENT “PYRAMID” & DOUBLE WICK FAIRY LIGHTS,
'IS*
m
mrm
WS
iwsew-i
: *'
-•-
a
\U=^~
;'v ■■:■ (.
•< ;-.
ses
r l *
'-V
M
/A
X
I
m
% ‘PYRAMID’ GARDEN LAMP
and Mosquito Trap.
WEATHER
PROOF.
Every
Y erandah
should be
Decorated
with these
Invaluable
Lamps.
GLASSES
IN
VARIOUS
DOLOURS.
L-Js
: •
i’ -
Cl,-,
WEATHER
PROOF.
Made in
Two Sizes,
to burn
either
‘ Pyramid ’
Lights or
Double-wick
‘ Pairy ’
Lights.;
BEAUTIFUL
EFFECT.
CLARKE’S NEW FLORAL FAIRY LAMPS. JJjj JJjffjf,
In Beautiful Tinted Glass— Various Colours. ®
Made in three sizes, to burn FAIRY and PYRAMID Lights. This is the most
charming novelty that has yet been introduced for Decorative Lighting.
CAN BE HAD MOUNTED ON PLUSH STANDS.
CLARKE’S
Registered “ pyramid ” Nighi-Lighi
WATCH HOLDE
fd?J<ES
FA
Japanned Watch Holder and Burglar Horror Lamp Complete.
Sold by all the leading retail houses.
T Ht
NCW
BUEGLAE'S HOEEOB.
PATENT
df ƒd
NIGHT
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE
PLASTER FIRE PROOF CASE.
LIGHT.
BUEG-LAE’S HOEEOE-
Single Wicks burn nine hours
each, in Boxes containing Eight
Lights.
For Burning in
CLARKE’S v Pyramid *
NURSERY LAMP.
CAUTION. -TO PREVENT
BURGLARIES.—A “Pyramid ”
Night Light should be lighted in
the back and front of every house
as soon as it is dark. Housebreakers
have the greatest dread of a light.
The police recommend a “Pyramid”
Night Light as the best safe-guard.
Almost all the burglaries perpetrated
might have been prevented and
much VALUABLE PROPERTY
SAVED, if this simple and inex-
pensive plan had always been
adopted. The “ Pyramid ” Night
Lights are much larger and give
DOUBLE THE LIGHT of the
common night lights, and are there-
fore particularly adapted for this
purpose. Manufactured in Patent
Fire-proof Plaster Cases. No
paraffin or other dangerous it aterial
used in their manufacture.
Lines on Using CLARKE’S Lights.
“ When Nights are Dark,
Then think of Clarke,
Who’s Hit the Mark Precisely;
For his Night-Lights,
Create Light-Nights,
In which You See quite Nicely.’
—W.E.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: FRANCIS Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe's Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
Wolfe's Schnapps—=£l orders.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, .£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the greatest tonics and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
Eeel Well —Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOUR.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Porlard Hold.
A STEVEDORE’S STORY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I ’ave got a down on Dagoes, and a Dutchman I
detest;
As for Chinkies and Eyetalians and such like I
gives ’em best.
I’m a Britisher or nothing, an’ me boyhood hours
was passed
In the drums around Whit’chapel, an’ I’ve sarved
before the mast.
I can splice, an’ I can knot, sir, 1 can reef, an’ I
can sew,
An’ there isn’t much in tackle or in shipping but
I know.
’Ave I been to sea ? By thunder ! why, I’d ’ardly
been ashore
Till I ran away in Melbourne to the rush of ’54.
“’Ave you got a chew o’’bacca? Ta ! 111 take
a drop with you.
Gin an’ bitters, missus! Thank you! Ho,
there, easy, that’ll do.
’Ere’s yer ’ealth, boss—yer a writer. How does
that pay ? You don’t tell!
Why, I allays thought you fellows on the papers
was paid well!
Here’s a yarn per’aps might suit you; true yarn,
too, as ever told.
Now, just let’s see what we’ll call it. Ah, I know,
‘ the Forrard Hold ’:—
‘ Long-shore ’ men—perhaps you know—are mostly
sailor-chaps like me,
That works ‘ around ’ the water-side when they’ve
’ad enough of sea.
They ain’t a very pious crowd, an’ they don’t take
much to pray’r—
Fact, there ain’t no mortal man can beat a steve-
dore to swear,
But it’s screwing wool in summer or it’s stowing
frozen meat
An’ the stevedore must yacker for the bit he gets
to eat.
Then the winter is a terror, an’ it ain’t surprising
that
He will sometimes broach the cargo when he wants
a shirt or hat.
Or suppose she’s full o’ liquor, why, there ain’t no
harm, I think,
For to tap a cask o’ brandy down below an’ ’ave a
drink.
Well, I’ve got a down on Dutchers, as I told you
once before,
’Cause they often gets-the runnin’ of us coves
along the shore,
For you see they ain’t such boozers as us sons o’
Johnny Bull,
Who are surly when we’re sober and unfriendly
when we’re full.
An’ them Dagoes carries daggers, an’ a furriner I
knew,
In a row in which I figgered, nearly cut my mate
in two.
Well, the strike had gone agen us and the times
was fearful bad,
An’ ’twas precious little yacker all the winter that
we ’ad,
So we ’ung about the Customs and we loafed
around the town,
Till the boats would start a-loading when the wool
was coming down.
A"’ we all was tired o’ waiting in the spring of
When Th Duke came up the ’arbour an’ was
berth’d beside the Quay.
Then the ‘ waiter’* breaks the ’atches ah’ we
rushes in a mob
To the side of that ’ere vessel in the ’opes to get a
job;
But the foreman blocks the gangway with the
cove that takes our time,
An’ we stand ashore before ’em an’ we forms a
sort o’ line.
Then it’s ‘You I want!’ an’ ‘You there,’ and
you’d fancy, by the Lord,
They was goin’ to be married by the way they
gets aboard.
‘Here you,’ ‘Sugar Jack,’ and ‘Stitches,’ ‘here,
Long Jones an’ Ginger Law—
‘ Hi—stand back there—not you, Dutchy !’ an’ he
drops his bloomin’ jaw.
He was allays lean an’ scraggy, an’ his bony,
ugly knees
Seemed a-pokin’ out before him, through his
faded dungarees,
An’ the lads had called him 1 Mudder ’ ’cause he
allays used to say :
‘ I haf left mine poor old mudder over dero in
Norrovay,
An’ I save up all mine monies till I pay her
passage out,
Den I spend mit you for liquor, den, my boys, you
see, / shout.’
That was when they chiacked ‘Mudder,’ called
him ‘ Dutch ’ and ‘ stingy cur,’
When he wouldn’t shout for loafers —he was saving,
up for her.
Well, I spotted poor old ‘Mudder,’ an’ I guessed
though times were bad,
They’d been extra bad with Dutchy, an’ the little
bit he ’ad,
’Stead of going home to Norway, had been melting
day by day
Into nightly ‘doss’ and ‘tucker,’ till it melted
right away.
I ’ad got enough for breakfast, an’ I knew a place
to doss,
An’ they calls me up the gangway, an’.I stops an’
asks the ‘ boss ’—
For I ’appened to be friendly, an’ I speaks a trifle
free—
Sez I, ‘ Mudder's pretty ’ ungry, let ’ini go instead
o' me!'
But he sings out ‘ Come on, Mudder,’ an’ he didn’t
come, he rolled,
An’ they tells us to go for’rard to the iron in the
hold.
Oh, her ‘for’rard ’ is a daisy, an’ the blasted rails
she brings,
’Tis the devil’s job to shift ’em or to get ’em in
the slings,
An’ the way they build them vessels with a
narrow kind o’ bows
It’s a terror to discharge ’em as yer ’umble servant
knows.
‘ Hist away ! ’ an’ up she travels. ‘ Wup ! Hold
on now ! Steady there ! ’
An’ the sling of railroad metal hangs above us in
the air,
‘ Lower away now, winchrnan, easy ! Hell! Look
out, there ! Hey ! Hey ! ” —smack !—
Chain has parted—rotten tackle —poor old Dutchy
—broken back !
Oh * my mudder ! ’ —no one knew her, but I think
that all that day
Most of us could dimly see her, waiting for him,
far away.
Waiting for her sailor laddie —and him gettin’
stiff an’ cold,
An’ the clots upon the iron drying in the forr’ard
hold.
He was allays lean an’ scraggy an’ his ugly, bony
knees
Seemed a-poking out before him through his faded
dungarees,
But I know if there’s a future an’ Saint Peter
minds the ’atch,
That he gev a show to Dutchy an’ he saved him
from Old Scratch,
I ain’t a very pious person, fact, I guess I’m full
o’ sin,
But I’ll swear if there’s a Heaven, that us steve-
dores gets in—
So I’ll go an’ look for Mudder if I reach the land
o’ gold !
An’ I guess I’ll find him forrard with the angels
in the hold.
October, 1892.
E. J. BRADY.
* Tide-waiter.
The convict skeleton, found at Launceston,
recalls one turned up when part of the Melbourne
old cemetery was sacrificed for the Victoria
Market. They found a skeleton in a red shirt
and digger’s costume, with a rope-end round his
neck, but whether suicide or scrag, nobody knew.
Sir James M‘Bain was about the most
estimable Conservative in Australia, but really no
politician. Though rather sawney to look at, he
hid the qualities of a financier. Where his firm
dropped into it was when the banks cleared out of
business over squattages, and clever men of the
M‘Bain stamp took up that line of financing.
M'Bain was strong in the nous for which E. M.
Young, a Melbourne man, now gets <£7ooo a year,
in London.
Under present conditions it will scarcely
be possible to fix wages by law. The utmost that
the State can do will be to provide the deserving
with free access to the land. Then, wages in all
manual and some clerical occupations will be
affected for the better, being regulated by the
amount of wealth employees could produce if they
cared to become the State’s tenants and their own
employers. When employers compete for hands,
not hands for billets, then the back of the iron
law of wages will be broken, but nothing else
short of Socialism can accomplish it.
A certain Northern Judge, with a rather
exalted idea of his own importance, gave a fancy-
dress ball some time ago, and his final instructions
to the orchestra were : “ When I—ah —enter the
room, if the music is playing, cease at once, and
let there be a flourish of trumpets—a flourish of
trumpets.” The orchestra, composed of foreigners,
took the command in a literal sense, and when his
nibs came in, attired as Charles the First, or
Mary Queen of Scots, or something, they stopped
the music and vigorously waved their instruments
in the air, amidst the inextinguishable laughter of
the guests.
Morton Tavares, the actor who has sued,
in England, a Mrs. Wise who had travelled and
played with him, for slander in ascribing bigamy
to him, figured largely in Thespian affairs in
Brisbane in the early seventies. He was a hook-
nosed man, past middle age, with small sharp
black eyes, too close together ; was alleged to be
of Spanish-Hebrew race from the West Indies.
He made his appearance in Brisbane accompanied
by a willowy blonde whom he introduced as his
wife, and whose stage designation was Miss
Surtees. Tavares gave out that this was the lady’s
real maiden name, and a romantic story was cir-
culated that she belonged to an old county family,
the Surtees of Cumberland, that Tavares had been
professor of elocution at an English boarding-
school where she was a pupil, that she fell in love
with his beauty—he was no beauty—and eloped
with him, being, in consequence, disowned and
disinherited by a haughty parent. Government
House—then occupied by that jolly, devil-may-
care old Irishman, Colonel Blackall, with no
feminine dragon to guard the entrance—opened
its doors co the elegant and riante heroine, and
Society expanded its arms. Sundry cynical
observers sniffed at the romantic yarn, remarking
that for a young lady of lofty lineage and first-rate
boarding-school training, “Miss Surtees” was
singularly unaccomplished. She played no
instrument, and she knew no language save
English. But Tavares managed to get the
lease of the_ singular barn which passed
for a theatre in Brisbane in those daj-s, and
started managing and playing “ heavy lead,” with
his wife in the principal female parts. The poor
girl had scarcely a spark of talent. But Tavares
vyas an excellent coach, and, as she was young,
lively, and passably good-looking, she managed to
satisfy audiences which always had a judicious
papering of society friends. Mrs. Grundy had
not a word to say against her, and the esteem
ixi which she was held counteracted the
dislike which soon fell upon her crabbed and
absurdly vain old spouse. She played Desdemona,
and Jessica, and Galatea in the Palace of Truth,
and Lady Gay Spanker—in short, everything in
the whole range of drama, which Tavares put her
at. She had a clique who really fancied she was
able to act, principally because it was believed
that she was not over-happy. After some years,
she suddenly left Tavares and sailed for India.
Tavares cleared out about the same time. “ Miss
Surtees ” evidently considered herself a free
woman, for she married the captain of the
steamer in which she was proceeding to India.
As the Mrs. Wise whom Tavares has been suing
has admitted that she was not regularly married
to him, and that consequently he has not been
guilty of bigamy, it appears that Brisbane society
was egregiously fooled for several years. All the
same, during the whole time that Mrs. Tavares
(Miss Surtees) was playing with him, her wifely
conduct was unimpeachable, and no breath of
scandal ever assailed her. Tavares was not half a
bad actor, but of a byegone school—the old
Edmund Kean style. His .Richelieu was a fine
performance, while his lago was an intense thing
of black-browed villainy, in the penny-plain and
twopence-coloured line.


Are you there ? Send me up a GNUN
Darling, please.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Gala, c/n H. Alexander, 67 Gxford-st., Sydney.
Register all. Fairest. Subscribers may witness.
10,000 at 5. Apply at once.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Pyrmont you can buy GNUN Darlings.
After dinner, smoke GNUN Darlings.
At Surry Hills you can buy G N U N Darlings.
In your buggy, smoke GNUN Darlings,
At all suburbs you can buy GNUN Darlings
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients.
Wolfe’s^Schnapps.—Sternly refuse imitations.
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe's Schnapps,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
A fragrant aroma —(I NUN Darlings.
The increase in the consumption of 6NUN
Darlings shows they are appreciated.
iiii
.
m
m
m
:
Her Pa.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
S'HK was the belle of the ship, and he was a vulgar
old man. She was full of sentiment, and he was
presumedly full of money. A vulgar old man who
“ travels saloon ” must be full of money. They
were both Australians returning to their native
land, but thete was not the least affinity between
them. How could there be?
She was beautiful and poetic. When they
entered the tropics she loved to linger on deck,
Attended by the doctor or some of the officers,
to catch the first glimpse of what she
called the glorious Southern Cross, without
an occasional sight of which crooked con-
stellation, she hinted, a true Australian would
pine away and die. But she never spoke of
Australia —she always called it “Sunny New
South Wales ”or“ my Austral home.”
- But the other Australian, the vulgar old man,
he said he “didn’t take no ’count of stars,” ex-
cepting they were on a brandy-label. He used to
play at whist and talk about “ re-naging,” and
say “’arts is trumps, pardner.” All the while
she sat in a dark corner of the deck, and asked
the officers what they would do in case of a wreck,
and they all vowed that they would save her first;
so she had pleasant dreams of the other lady
passengers, who were very cold to her, going
shrieking to the bottom, while she was high and
dry in the arms of a man with brass buttons.
At Colombo a real live “ Honourable ” came on
board, who was globe-trotting, and he had a man-
servant and wore three suits a day, and could only
be called imbecile at times, mostly in the evening.
After that she was very cruel to the officers,
and the doctor and purser, who had quarrelled
about her, made it up again, and were occasionally
nasty in their remarks.
Before they got to Albany she had vanquished
the poor honourable, and before they reached
Melbourne there was a solemn engagement
between them, and she promised to speak to her
father as soon as they arrived in Sydney. She
said that her father would be sure to meet her
there.
And so he did, for no sooner had the steamer
dropped anchor than they met the vulgar old man
and she said, “ George, dear, this is papa.” And
the vulgar old man said, “You do me proud,
mister, and I ’ope you and ’Melia will be happy.”
And the Honourable George fainted on a sky-
light.
So it all came out that because she was a beauty
who had gone to England for her education, and
he was a hopelessly vulgar old man, that they
agreed not to know each other on the voyage out.
He kept the Flat-footed Duck in Woolloomooloo,
and before he left the steamer presented everyone
on board with his business-card.
The Honourable George was driven in a weak-
minded condition to Government ’Ouse, but the
end is not yet.
E.F.
Moltko used annually, at the mess dinner,
to propose the Emperor’s health, and there would
be bets as to whether he would use nine words or
ten. Once he used eleven, and a loser angrily
exclaimed, “ He’s ageing! Getting loquacious!”
A porter, at Stafford station, made the
Duke of Sutherland put his pipe out twice, not
knowing him, after which he heard who it was,
and went and apologised. Whereupon the Duke
said, “I took you for an honest man, but now
perceive you are a fool.”
According to the cable, Osman Digna is
raiding around Suakim, and forcing the tribes to
join the Mahdist army. It makes us feel as if a
blue-moulded spectre had risen out of the dead
and buried past when we come across an item like
this. Fully seven years ago the same Osman Digna
used to go raiding aromM Suakim every morning
before breakfast, and the Mahdi was howling
before the walls of Khartoum. They have both
died six or seven times since then, and been buried
and defeated and mortally wounded, and had
small-pox, and died of thirst, and been lost and
assassinated, and now it is discouraging to hear that
the same old Osman is on the warpath as fresh as
ever, and recruiting for the same old Mahdi who
was buried so very long ago. Evidently the cable,
as a weapon for destroying Mahdis, is a failure.
Mr. H. O. Forbes, late curator of Canter-
bury (M.L.) Museum, has been gaining kudos
in England by the exhibition of specimens of
birds’ bones found by him in the Chatham
Islands. He forgot to tell the scientists
whom he charmed with the sight of rare
aves that his only visit to the Chathams
was at the expense of the Museum authori-
ties, to whom should in fairness belong all
the specimens he found, he having been sent there
to explore. In striking contrast with Mr. Eorbes’
conduct was that of the great Dr. Von Haast,
who built up Canterbury (M.L.) Museum. For a
quarter of a century he was collecting, and pro-
bably he received more personal gifts of valuable
specimens than any other six men in Australasia.
Yet, at his death, he did not leave behind him
twopence-wortli of a collection for his family,
everything he ever received having been given at
once to his beloved museum.
Lord Onslow has been pleased to approve
of the four labour members appointed to the M.L.
Council. He says that “ these are all men of
ability likely to form a just appreciation of their
duties.” —
II is lordship gravely bowed his head
(If rumour be veracious)
And showed his noble teeth, and said
In accents kind and gracious
“ Although I’m of the uppah ten,
And nicely cut my suit is,
1 really think that working men
Are decent fellows, now and then,
Who try to do their duties.
“ ’Tis odd to find this rough quartette
For senators selected ;
Not one amongst their social set
Is very well connected ;
In form and face they show no trace
Of true patrician beauties—
However, they will not disgrace
Their country, or be out of place—
They’ll try to do their duties.”
The Sydney Sandwich Co. has a staff of a
dozen boys, who, basket on arm, “ do the offices.”
Civil Service pay-day (Ist of the month) is harvest
time, and a smart boy has sold 170 sandwiches on
that day in the Lands-office alone. Fdr the first
two weeks of the month the daily average is 90 ;
for the lattet half of the month 50; the lowest
day’s score, that Of the last day in the month —20.
In the Northern Territory the other day
two whites, one of whom had a new rifle, were out
hunting when a nigger was seen in the distance.
“ I suppose he’s about 500 yards away,” said the
murderer with the gun. “ Here goes !” He fired
and the black fell. “Ah, she’s a beauty,” ex-
claimed the marksman, affectionately patting the
stock of his weapon; “I thought I’d got his
range.” His jubilation evaporated, however,
when the target, who had dropped when the
smoke issued from the gun, jumped up and ran
out of harm’s reach ere the sport could re-load.
Nobody ever sees a deformed or crippled
Chinaman. When a deformed Chow is born he
is promptly put out of the world. When an adult
Chow is crippled he is generally put out of the
world also. No one save the other Chows knows
exactly how it is done, but the general impression
is that he is persuaded to hang himself, or induced
to fall into a waterhole. When anything serious
happens to a Mongol he generally suicides shortly
afterwards, which probably means that a deputa-
tion of his countrymen sits persuasively on his
head until he is extinct. Chinese suicides are
curious things, and are often worth investigating.
Advfc. in English paper .’ —
FOR THE LOVE OF MARY, may I ask an alms
towards the Daily Exposition. I have for four weeks
appealed IN VAIN. Pray do light a candle of Thanks-
giving, or of Reparation (Is. each), and help the good
works. When you send it, ask for the Beautiful
Badge of the Sacred Heart or a Miraculous Picture
Indulgences, or Rosaries Elect by the Canons of the
Holy Cross, with 500 days’ Indulgence on each
bead. Send at once to
Rev. Philip James M‘Cartiiy,
Shrine of our Lady of Dale, Ilkeston, Derbyshire, Eng.
Eel. Bulletin,—As a possible solution of
the problem—How to enfranchise the migratory
classes without doing more harm than good ? I
diffiilently mgg e.t L following .-Lejthepe be
two systems of registration : one providing for
electors whose qualification is residence for a
certain period in anyone of the electorates into
which a province is divided, and the other providing
forelectors whose qualification is residence fori
like period in the province. It could be optional to
voters who possessed both qualifications to register
in either class, but not in both. Electors could,
without injustice, transfer from one class to the
other after formally relinquishing their electoral
rights for a period. For the purposes of the
second class the whole province could be treated
as one constituency, and the electors could record
their votes in any part of the province. The
number of members representing this migra-
tory constituency could bear approximately the
same proportion to the number of electors as in
the local or settled constituencies. Electoral
rights could be issued to electors of the second
class which they could be required to produce
when voting. The migratory electors would, of
course, only vote when a vacancy in the represen-
tation of themselves occurred. They Would have nd
right to vote at local elections. Electors undet
the first class would, of course, riot vote at elec-
tions of representatives of the secohd class. A
short absence from the province sholrld not be
made a disqualification of an elector under eithet
Class, provided he was ndt a registered elector in
another province. Under such a system the
temptation to impersonate would be reduced to a
minimum, since every man could have a vote and
an opportunity of recording it. At the worst, if
a certain amount of impersonation took place
among the nomadic voters it could only affect one
constituency—their own.—Yours faithfully, P.H.
A typical Chinese story. Scene—Police-
court of N.Q. seaport town. Chinese complainant
(after blowing out match) swears he has been
assaulted by'defendant, a decent-looking but
excited white wharf-labourer; also swears that
defendant broke several bottles and ruined a pair
of scales. Witness (blows out match) corroborates
—says scales were ruined and it had cost .£4 to
replace them. Defendant (indignantly interrupt-
ing); “It’s quite false !—never assaulted the
Chinaman or saw his scales.” P.M. (severely) :
“That will do, sir ! I can quite understand the
sort of man you would be in a Chinaman's shop.
Please don’t interrupt the court.” Complainant’s
Solicitor (continuing exam.): “Anl you say
defendant broke the scales and that it cost you <£4
to replace them ?” Interpreter : “ Yabba, yabba,
yabba, yabba, yabba.” Witness: “ Yabba, yabba,
yabba, yabba, yabba.” Interpreter: “He say
‘yes.’” P.M. : “Let the damaged scales be
produced.” Defendant: “I never touched or
saw the scales. I never broke them.” P.M. :
“ Silence, sir ! you can make a statement
afterwards, but I can see from your de-
meanour the sort of larrikin you are.”
(Sudden disappearance of Sergeant, who mounts
his horse and gallops off). Court adjourned to
allow of witness producing scales. Enters witness
carrying broken scales. Sergeant also enters by
another door. Case resumed. Sergeant: “Your
Worship, may I say a word?’ P.M. : “Cer-
tainly.” Sergeant: “ When your Worship asked
for the scales I at once rode over to complainant’s
shop and saw the scales, now produced. They
were then uninjured and in perfect order. I
waited about, saw witness enter the shop, take up
the scales, and leave for the court. 1 followed
him. When he got to the back of the court
up deliberately smashed up the scales with
a hammer, and threw two -weights and
the hammer away (I now produce them.)”
Sergeant is sworn and repeats this statement.
P.M.: “Have you anything to say, defendant?”
Defendant absolutely denies the Mongolian’s
allegations. Solicitor for complainant addresses
Bench. P.M. (to defendant): “ Although from
the Sergeant’s story it is evident you never broke
the scales, yet, from your bearing in Court to-day,
I have no doubt you committed the assault and
broke the bottles. If you ever come before me in
connection with a similar case I will imprison you
without the option of a fine. You are fined 40
shillings; £2 2s. professional costs; 10s., the price
of the lemonade-bottles; a guinea, interpreter’s
fee; and ss. 6d. costs of court, payable forthwith,
in default two months hard labour in gaol.”
And then Justice winked the other eye.


Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
IS
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE-
IXDEHVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Sticking*.
Easy Shooting, Fur-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breecli-loateg.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Oowl@s *§£ Buaa,
Gunniakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Send for List
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,Colours & Paints,
WALL PAPERS 3
PA I
529 George BathurstStJ
Br/ckf/eld H/11.
dgƒ df
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE W A RUNG.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
Ya
ST*
3s. 6d. & ss, 0c3..
3s. Ocl„ «Sc 53'. <B:-cT,.
O. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
O. H. S3MIT2I & SOKT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEAF
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drums. Relieves noises, &c.
in the head. Cures Deafness j
Send for book and particu.
lars. Address the Sole
Agent : A. M. NAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne,
chlW
m
&
WM
mm
■wg
ss
© N
J H
Sole Agents
Allt’s Brewing & Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
“A Golden Shanty.”
(
Australian stories and sketches in prose and verse
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid, to
any of the Australasian colonies.
Hotel.
arcadelotel
(From Pltt-street to
I'asticreagli-streel),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
liii
I
©
iisi
m
HOT£
m
TX THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant, and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC! LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
i’ODOLPII TI'DOP. Manager,
Late Manager of Aaron s E\ebange*and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and Citj - Clubs.
Medical.
IL6I
Beecliam’s Pills
»
PATENT
PILLS.
■
&
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable'
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
hying about all that is required. No female should
he without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
gpon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
fried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
{heir use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
fig found to work wonders upon the most important
grgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeeham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give JBeecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
Ask
for
DeLissa& Phillips,
Barack St., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
MASOIf EEOTEEBS
(limited),
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STBSET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the Trade and Wholesale
buyers only,
Ironnscugery <fe General Hardware,
GLASS, CHINA, and EAKTHENAVAKE
WINES, LEERS, & SPIRITS,
and
GENERAL BULK MERCHANDISE.
Solo Agents for— LUGiEN FOUCAULD & CO.S
OLD BRANDIES.
£2. J. T. GAYEN'S Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN & CO.’S Champagne Pale Ales
M AGHEN’S li Pelican ’’ Stout.
“THE ROYAL KDINBIIIGH CASTLE”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKIES.
hBo .
da
)V, A • 7 M
/ARK.
; @i* .
: 6p & Gp &
I. e n P - 7 ’pi
4*,fioo sis I so. IRvcr;], IM words per iiiianto.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week ns fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 first-clsss copies at one operation. Agents—
SYDNEY": J. E. Cunningham, S 4 Elizaheth-st ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
"Gollins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J. Walch & Sons.
ril ASM AN I A. Messrs. FITZGERALD
i BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Di
Whisky.
DRINK
“mi
scour
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should dock to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious
m ROSES
Pi
IP®
%
&
o
THEONLYI
iuhms
nPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Bs. 6d.
t-W' Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
-THE-
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
•(SELF- REGUL ATI SO)
And Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADE INS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms : 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
h
advt
's
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
'• <to 14s, per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S POP.POISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offeree! at this Price. Look for the
BOW VAX’ on the Window.
£1-9 Pitt Street- Send RO.O. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
moists, sosmtst stobbebs,
Squatters, Station Hands, &G-,
e make, repair, strap or mount all kinds'of
PIPES, and cut and fit any amber or other
mouthpieces. Send your pipes down and w©
will return them by Post. A liberal discount
to the Trade.
CRAIG »» AITKEN,
—680 & 682—
GEORGE STREET,
S3T13I<rDE13r.
ALLT’S
SPARKLING
ALE.
m
o
*P
o
O
-C
r»
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!
Capillarine I
pW° The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, an
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— 10s. Cd., Post Free.
C'RAMi A AITKFX, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
' — BY—
‘ Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published' and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin offiqe to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. lOd.
in stamps.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange; Commercial and
Travellers’ Letter’s of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which cam be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


4< 3ST °X" I OvX T T -aSk.”
U»GR Horses, Cattle, Sheep, { Dogs, &c certain an*
Jr immediate cure effected application only; or
Sbfe shotflders, broken knee*, -cracked heels, :xmgwarin,
and sores aiwl wounds of every •description, i'feo thou-
sands'of testimonials to this effect from lughesCauthon-
ties in England and Australia, inference kindly.per-
mitted- to every livery stable m Sydney- Pnce pei>
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6cL and Gs. &*■ Obtainablet*o
all principal merchants and saddlers -throughout -be
colony, or from H. LEICESTER, 89 Pitr-street, Sydn ty.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.'W. for ... AnncuU-
Cbmpany. ’’
~vr OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATERdban 1 p.ni- on.
TUESDAY. \
DEWAR S WHISKY.
\ Diploma of Honour and I ,Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER , COMPETITION, the) ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
' v\, i 33ewar’s WlilsKy.
20 GOLD PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
\ \ Agents : . ...
L I 0
\ ... CURCZER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
min '«aamoffl ffosanH
*25
v.ts
Clyde Works, Granville,
IN.S.W.
The “CLYDE” K CHAFFCUTTERS.
Male in three sizes, with or without Sieve-gear.
FRAMES OE BEST POLISHED BLACKWOOD.
No better Chaffcutters have ever been made, and with our
Horsegears to match, they form plants impossible to beat.
‘ FOR THE HARVEST SEASON
New “Clyde” Damp-weather Strippers,
New “Clyde” Improved Winnowers,
AND /
BUCKEYE
Binders,
Mowers,
Ensure the rapid and economical handling of any crop.
IWe Make and Stock every kind of Farm Implement,
NO DUTY. CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
A
<RACK As
o' a o-
* i %
K. A. Hervey, A pent, 144 Clai'eiive^t. Sydney.
/?!
/
I
a
to
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
<ober Party: “Why didn’t von keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case. _
Huntington Hill.
/
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&Otf &0.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Bock Breakers.
I .
A ..
Jl
»■:
WCStingilOHSC 'foifeJucfc
m
u
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—-4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with -DOMES ami
■:' A-NTI-PRIMINO Pipes-
Double Fire Doors. Double
Eivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street ol ""' Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
‘W
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland. •
H V l
«•«
Oa4S*l!^;
■
■
Kru^i.ocuc
