

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
AITKTA S AI,K DH KKNS' WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST 11ST THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SKITLIEO TO THE PKISCIPAI (iIBS IN SVWNET.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
n. Gr. WATKINS & CO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
BUILDERS 3 & GEITEBAL IBOITMOITG-ERT.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
° FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
FRBLLGRS’
CLARETS,
CHABLIS
AND
SAUTERNES
CAN ALWAYS BE RELIED UPON-
TO BE HAD FROM ALL
Wine & Spirit Merchants.
o*
rH£
ft
flili
,Tl£ =3t;» -
The Oxford JHEotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FDESH FOOD & ICE GO.,
135 KING SIREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
“ A GOLDEN SHANTY”
and the
SECOND EDITION
—OF —
“ The History of Botany Bay”
can now be obtained at
J. H. THOMPSON and CO.,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
GILBEY’S DRY GIN.
jl . *S& CJ. XX O W -A. R X>.
Agents ixx New South Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Shuttleworth.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
m
■ CIHY,TQM»SHUTJ
IMPROVED PORTAULK ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SO
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD,
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
EIECTEIC LIGHTING ENGINFS WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. *2T Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements Machinery on application.
j. & C. Howard, 2SOi Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 12—No. 640.]
[Saturday, May 21, 1892.


Samuel Macgregor & Co.,
Stock and Station Agents,
SHEEP & CATTLE SALESMEN,
188 Queen Street,
B R I S B _A_ Iff B.
nH-fIERCE'3
7*9
TRUSS
World will Retain
ture or give Relief
Pierce’s Magnetic
'll. ns*. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
oases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
It can bo worn with ease and comfort
Blight and Bay. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO., Ban Francisco,Cal,
Or Washington 11, Soul di Co., 160 Pitt St.,
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents-
NO
n the
fikeßr
Klastic
Truss has
ands of
Springs.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
TOO FAT
| The English method
duces weight permanently
by easyfaafe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet
and nauseous drugs nn-
mm K.TFP Ml—liian hi Ji i inn I 1 uauscuua ui ul'S UXl-
necessary. PBATT'S SYSTEM li universally adopted by
■rofesaional men, actors, pugilists, jockeys and others, who
MUST RIGIDLY KEEP DOWN OBESITY
OOBPULENCY AND How TO CUBE IT? an instructive
pamphlet showing “How to Act," sent in sealed envelope for
“^ X “P S - Address-Mr. F. ALLAN, BOUBKE & WILLS
MELBOURNE, Vlc * Avoid base imitations.
fitAi i S is the only sure and practical treatment, and must
produce satisfactory results. Warranted Quite Harmless.
EN
FD
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS ajstd INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND,
BROIT’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. JE3,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,*
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Pree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
MANUFACTURING HATTERS
GEORGE STREET
SVD N Ely
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
pRITATE HOME FOR LADIES.— Mrs. LAVENDER,
. Professional Nurse and Accoucheuse,
Receives Patients from the country under Surgical or
Medical Treatment. (Established in Botany-street Ten
Years.) For terms, apply “ Windermere,” 132 Botany-
street, Moore Park, Sydney.
STEELES GALVANIC
G£ NT’S BELT
ELECTRIC BELTS. -^|
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, sciatica,, neuralgia
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, &c. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of £2—
registered letter, post-order, or cheque. When ordering
Beit send waist measure above the hips. 6
Druggist. H. P. SABIELi, Chemist.
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 78 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
INFLUENZA!
Do you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to thi«
distressing disorder?
Then always keep a Bottle of BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND ,r
EUCALYPTUS OIL by you, and ready for immediate use by night or by
day. It is a germ killer. Sprinkle it on your pillow at flight. Use it in a
vaporiser—a few drops mixed with water, and steam the apartment. Inhale
the steam if there be nasal congestion or throat troubles.
Dr. Brendon Curgenven, of Kensington, London, writes of the Oil :—"I
have directed the spray to be used, and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night,
and I am convinced I have saved many from the disease.”
KF* For Rheumatism, Coughs, Colds, Influenza and Liver Troubles,
BOSISTO’S
“ Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil
Is the most useful remedy in existence. Never be without it in the house.
It is sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe.
Be sure you ask for BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS
OIL, and so avoid having one of the many imitations of this most famous Oil
palmed off upon you.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton, of 3XTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
o
■®Ara. Jbfc,lXj3VCX3\rs*JL 4 Jhj3El. .... JProjprietresa,
D
A
A
FD
Sc6^tyoHis^i
A literary treat for Australians abroad, and for absent friends
of Australian readers of The Bulletin :
A Golden Shanty.
GOLDEN
SPECIFIC
The Drink Habit when
acquired is positively a
DISIEASS
pure and simple, and no
and ruinous. In these
longer a habit, loathsome.
Colonies THOUSANDS
Sstelully acknowledge
e efficacy and success
of this great Remedy.
Can be used with or
without THE subject's knowlkdge. It is absolutely harmless,
safe, sure and speedy. The “ Golden Specific" supplies the
£lace of the accustomed liquor, and promptly causes its disuse,
[undreds without their knowledge are now made temperate
men, and fancy they have quit drinking of their own free will.
Beware of worthless substitutes now being advertised
under fancy titles in a manner to deceive the public .
Thea# are both dangerous and useless. “Golden Specific" has
•tood the test for years. In all the WORLD the ONLY CURE for
and Colonial testimonials free by return. We have no Agents,
Sole Vendors and Proprietors (and our only Address). —
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO ,
GRO SVEN OR HOTEL,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE
(Next to Supreme Court).
Excellent Accomodation for Visitors to the Metropolis.
Wines and Spirits of the Best Brands only
kept in Stock
H. M. KAVANAGH (lath ok tint roval), PROPRIETOR.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay.
ROOKING BACKWARDS.
With all due respect to Bellamy’s cleverness and
foresight, he omitted from his great Social Work
the fact that EENNT'S Commercial Hotel,
BROKEN HILL, contains Forty (40) Rooms,
and is the Premier Institution of its kind on the
Great Silverfield.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
maivhood.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
0*- R * C O RU®
g - SSE< 4CE, °f ±\ F E-*
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
end unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rico ref s Essence of Life restores manhood to the most
shattered and debilitated constitutions, regenerating all the
important elements oj the human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
In cases of us ,or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
totlra. Pamphlets free on receipt ofstamped addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry Gr Co.. 73 Gertrude Street
attaroy, Melbourne.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
“ The Bulletin’s
HISTORY of BOTANY BAY.
By ARTHUR GAYLL.
PRICE: ONE SHIELING.
IDEUSSA
ahd
PHILLIPS]
FD
o
4C
A
m
o
NS
■
4.
o
<9
O
*
o
FD
o
c
•ft
'THE BULLETIN’S”
Second Edition of tub
“ History of Botany Bay ”
C3-OL33E3ST SIHLA.IN'T'X"
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By ‘BULLETIN” Writers
Sijze, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is.
-77
3d.


Medical.
BrSP
, 9 YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
P 0 Box 920. - This eminent specialist is a graduated
nhvsician of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
K-vprnments of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16
Vs to the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
and SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
? L„ to him will receive his honest opinion of their cora-
rilaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but ah inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is n 0 reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. Examination and
advice free to all. Charges moderate. Office Hours—lo
a.ra. to 12 a.m.; 2 to 4 and 7 to 8 p.m.
KTervons
Consult Dr. Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS AND
SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion, for his many
rears of practice with this dreadful disease enables him
L remove all traces of it and to return the victims to full
VIGOUR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N B. —TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary for the cure of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
DR. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS: .
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR”PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &c., 55., or 21s. for
five hoses,
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
contagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for live
boxes.
3. —“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Du. SPEER draws attention to his— A., Extremely
Moderate Charges ; 8., Effectual and Rapid Treatment;
C. Absolute and Permanent Cure.
CS PP
zeu*
C33T
-1
a
•:V\ IZ
jESOOISL OjT £aj‘fcT3.3.' , 0.
BC ON OF NATURE and Illustrnt ou Marlage
Guide.—A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs cf life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette 1 M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/0. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should he, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, ,&c., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price I/O.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. 11. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
For Cdnsum f»tion use
w
c#' s
ml
/
fO
i r
r
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE,
EXTRACT !N THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W,
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
TO BE 'PUBLISHED .SHORTLY.
“ T ALES
CONVICT SYSTEM.”
By PRICE W A RUNG.
Price, ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d.
Agents supplied at Wholesale Rates.
Everyone Should Read
‘A GOLDEN SHANTY.
.
5
M I H
VOIKO MEN, MIUDLE-AGEB MEN, Oil* MEN
should send for
Dr. Perry’s Pamphlet on Nervous Diseases;
Timm Cause, Symptoms, and Treatment.
This pamphlet is specially written to show a method of
counteracting the ill effects of indiscretions in early life,
over-work, mental w r orry, &c., and contains a fund of use-
ful information for every sufferer from the following com-
plaints, viz ;—Loss of Energy and Will Power, NERA OUS
DEBILITY, Pains in the Back, Detective Memory, Specks
before the Eyes, Excessive Nervousness, Premature
Decay, Bashfulness, Excessive Heart Palpitation, Des-
pondency, Impure Blood, Liver and Kidney Complaints,
Contagious Diseases, and various other symptoms experi-
enced by Nervous Sufferers.
This Pamphlet is sent Free on Application,
and all in any way suffering from the above would derive
benefit from the perusal of this work.
If the patient’s ease is of long standing, and, therefore
in need of treatment, he should lose no time in wi-iting
me a letter detailing in full his symptoms, on receipt of
which I will at once reply, explaining the nature of his
complaint, and if I can effect a cure, the time it will take,
and the cost of doing so. My long experience in the
treatment of Nervous Diseases has made me thoroughly
conversant with all their peculiarities. I am prepared,
therefore, to
Guamta a Permanent and Complete Cure in every case I undertake,
I invite the fullest investigation into my qualifications. For some time I was House Surgeon to the Great
Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of investigating the causes of Nervous Diseases, and
hcc )me perfectly acquainted with the most approved scientific and successful methods of affecting their cure.
ALL CONSULTATIONS, either by letter or in person, FREE. Hoars of Consultation—Prom 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
daily ; Saturdays, 10 to 12 a.m. ; and from 7to 9 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Address all letters-
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.,
ELMSLEY HOUSE, 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
VARICOCELE COMPLETELY CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
DIABETES and TUMOURS treated by a New Method of CUTANEOUS MEDICATION.
N. 8.—1 would advise all patients, before placing their case in any practitioner’s hands, to first ascertain if he is
i duly qualified man or not. This can easily be done by referring to the Medical Register. [Mention this paper.
. />
■ -s
I®
: 3B
;;;:;:Krj=
mm*
SURGEON LANGSTON,
Sfl[>RaC>S() E3nj^«
Late of Imperial Force!*, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
located at
HO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need ot
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
Mylife-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatpient
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
Disc scs. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS.
LACK OF ENERGY, FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Arising from Indiscretion, Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects —Nervousness,
Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
Females, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to Marry,
Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Eight Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc,, treated with success. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forma, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, 01d_S»res, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, I’iine-tested Remedies. Still and
Swollen Joints and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison. CUMEH. Soft-feeling bunch of earth-like
worms-VAHICOUEMG, IS C'IIRABI.E WITHOUT Ol* Id lit A TIO N by Surgeon
Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, price £,2. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treated successfully. Rupture
instantly relieved and permanently cured. Tits, Epilepsy, or falling sickness radically cured. I use only the
best remedies. Avoid tsnsliilloEl pretenders and specious promised cure-alls— they
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with
skill in a respectful manner; and knowing what to do, So Experiments are made. HBoiue
Treatment. Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at horn?.
and experience important. A friendly letter or cull may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden years to life. So mercury or poisonous drugs used.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &G,
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—The Only Qualified Surgeon piactising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
CONSULTATION FREE.
TUR
*■ Plum 5
FD
THE
‘ Plum ’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has over been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; s,et ready for use, ami we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Od. ; Pair,.in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered
Sole
Agents :
and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. cxti a -
CRUIG & AITKEN,- GBO George Street, SYDNEY
ICE CHEST S,
Ice-cream Freezers,
water filters.
Ironmongers, BRISBANE.
DRAWING ROOM
Suites in Plush
From £7 10 0.
Medical.
Dv. ZI.IOZ3LAJEUC3e.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome bis
friends and patients, during bis consulting hoursi
at bis new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
s
m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the loading colleger
and hospitals of Europe, lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He lias by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification!
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hii
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause inoie un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
m the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
few that something dreadful is about to happen,
wi ak stomach, yellow or blood shot eyes, impure
blcud hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cot gli who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
waf efulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weal mess, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mask red these difficulties. On receipt of Gd. in
stain s he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage ■ IT . T „
* lEE, A large cloth-bound
IiOOrC.
Showing plainly ho\y all diseases of the private oc
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. ibis
hook will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tend ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous it would bo advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you .promptly
, m d courteously, a candid and straightforwaid
mionion of your case. If you do not think you
underst and the case, send for his famous medical
work the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in t he volume will bo found a list of carefully-pre-
nared questions, which will, in all probability
Lsist you materially in describing your ailment
Dr Richards uses nothing but- the purest remedies
'a neV er prescribes mercury under any circum
stances The moment letters arc carefully per
used and answered they are destroyed by fire.
", d patients may rest assured that their cases
vvill remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25 000 cases since coming to Australia, and
Ll permission from at least 10,000 persons to
liVow their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION PEEE.


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
05 PITT STREET, S^’ZDKTE!'^'.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,000
LAEGE BONUSES
AND
TJETEOTJBTEID SECURITY.
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary.
&
FD
FD
eu|AV toojj P'bxi ©q oj,
•KOcin aanaa aa savaviv nyo
SMXMHIIVS
CEisCV
‘snayflo ‘siamo
FD
Acknowledged
The Best
E P. GREGORY & CO.,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney,
AND AT
Brisbane & Melbourne,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—
STEAM ENGINES and BOILERS—from 2to 20 horse-power. Separate and combined, hori-
zontal and vertical, at Lowest Prices.
BLAKE’S DIRECT-ACTING STEAM PUMPS, Single and Duplex; suitable for all pumping
purposes up to 50,000 gallons per hour capacity.
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS, with and without Engine.
BAKER BLOWERS, all sizes, for Smelting Works, Foundries, Smiths’ Shops ; with and with-
out Engine. Also, STURTEVANT’S PRESSURE BLOWERS and EXHAUST FANS.
ENGINEERS’ TOOLS of every description ; by Smith and Coventry (Ltd.), Geo. Richards and
Co. (Ltd.), and other standard English and American makers.
FAIRBANK’S SCALES and WEIGHBRIDGES; also, DENISON’S SUSPENDED WEIGH-
ING MACHINES.
LAUNDRY MACHINERY of every description, and of the most recently-improved design
and manufacture.
WOOD WORKING MACHINERY, by J. A. Fay and Co., .1. Sajar and Co., ad others-.
Almost every machine known to the wood working trades in stock.
SIFTING and MIXING MACHINERY for Bakers, Druggists, Spice Manufacturers, etc.
MEDART SPLIT PULLEYS, SHAFTING, COUPLINGS. HANGERS, PLUMMER BLOCKS,
COLLARS, BELTING, LUBRICATING OILS, COTTON WASTE, etc., etc.
Correspondence solicited. All enquiries promptly replied to.
INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY!
KODAK
CAMERA.
n
m
at
m
m
(two views of the subject.)
M ADE
IN
FIVE
Sizes.
He (excitedly) : “Hang it, I’m sum I heard one of those confounded Kodaks!’’
She (quietly) : “Possibly; my brothers all have them, you know.”
SOLE AGENTS for AUSTRALIA : BAKER & ROUSE,
370 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next A.J.S. Bank);
AND AT
256 Collins Street, Melbourne; 69 Bundle Street. Adelaide; 46 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SEND FOR NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
WILLIAMSON
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE . .
BOROUGH OF REDFERN,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &c.
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING*
Perdriau <Sdi Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, clc.
WATERPROOF OOATS, etc., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Mo.'lded to Order.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Freehold Investment
and
Deposit Bank,
335 a Greorge-St., Sydney,
(Two doors from Wynyard street),
tw- NOTICE. Business removed to New Premises, 836 a GEORGE STREET, two doors from Wynyard Street
■ KAIftINO FE ATI KGS. - Funds invested In HEAT, ESTATE ONLY. Advances made on the security of Land
amt Property. An economic system of management enables this Institution to pay Highest hates of Inteiest
on FIXED DEPOSITS, as under, viz.:—
For Three Months .... .... 0 per cent, per annum.
. • - For Six Months .... 7 per cent, per annum.
For Twelve Montiis .?.. .... S per cent, per annum.
nPI’ASIT* from 2to 5 years. 9 per cent, per annum, with’ FIXED BONUS of 1 per cent per annum added.
BSS2SSJK. *** ~«'pt lorvnmW. 8u.1.m .»« be k.u-, o
THE
NEW YORK LIFE
INSURANCE CO.
Begs leave to announce that its TWENTY-YEAR TONTINE POLICIES, issued
in 1872, are now maturing, with the following results :
X.
1. Ordinary Life Policies are returning from 20 to 52 per cent, in excess of their cash cost,
according to age of insured. (See example below.)
2. Twenty-Year Endowment Policies are returning from 58 to 71 per cent, in excess of
their cash cost, according to age of insured. (See example below.)
3. Limited Payment Life Policies are returning from 43 to 141 per cent, in excess of their
cash cost, according to age of insured. (See example below.)
EXAMPLES OF MATURING POLICIES.
1. Policy taken at Ago 43, £2000; Cost, £1402; Cash Value, £1757 15s. 2d.
2. Policy taken at Age 30, £5000; Cost, £4853; Cash Value, £8238 9s.
3., Policy taken at Age 37, £10,000; Cost, £7166; Cash Value, £10,338 Bs.
These returns are made to members after the Company has carried the insurance on the
respective policies for twenty years.
2.
1. Persons insured under Ordinary Life Policies may, in lieu of the above cash values,
continue their insurance, at original rates, and receive Cash Dividends of from 71 to 115 per
cent, of all premiums that have been paid, and annual dividends hereafter as they accrue.
(See example below.)
2. Persons insured under Limited Payment Life Policies may, in lieu of the above cash
values, continue their insurance, without further payments, and receive Cash Dividends of from
07 to 103 per cent, of all premiums that have been paid, and annual dividends hereafter as they
accrue. (See example below.)
EXAMPLES OF DIVIDENDS.
1. Policy (see above) may be continued for the original amount, at original rates, with annual
dividends, and the accumulated dividends, amounting to £9BO 12s, 5d., may be withdrawn in cash.
2. Policy (see above) may be continued without further payments, receiving annual divi-
dends, and the accumulated dividends, amounting to £4820 65., may be withdrawn in cash.
Persons desiring to see results on policies issued at their present ape, and further particulars as to
options in settlement, will please address the Company or its Agents, (living date of birth.
COLONIAL
OFFICES:
j VK TOHIA :
1 408 Collins St., Melbourne.
<|l KKNSLAND:
227 Queen St., Brisbane.
NEW ZEALAND*
Featherstonc St., Wellington.
CHIEF OFFICES, DEPARTMENT OF AUSTRALASIA
BOND STREET
CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager.


The Bulletin
Vol. 12—No. 640.
SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1892.
Price, 6d.
FD
THE SCHEY INQUIRY.
THE SCHEY TERRIER: “Oh! Lor! I don’t fool very well. I’ve hardly got a berk left!"


The Bulletin
Die National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.’*
proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO„
Limited,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt-street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £ lO 0
Half-yearly 0 12 6
Quarterly 0 6 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed to J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carcfidly read and acknotvlcdge in tae
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —•
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. u'hcn
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly understand that
ice are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct loThe Billetin' Office Twenty Shillings
sterling- which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian Governments on Inter pro-
vincial Newspapers , the Annual Subscription out-
side N.S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s, 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be
prepaid.
There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, MAY 21, 1892.
The Superfiuous Australian Infant.
In every city all the world over — even in the
new cities of Australia which have not yet had
time to settle down into the ancient, mouldy,
antediluvian wretchedness of Europe—there is
a great, floating population which lives by no
recognised industry, and does nothing in parti-
cular of a lawful character —a strange and slimy
band that exists somehow, but how no one
exactly knows. Of this class are the forlorn
commission-agent who lurks mysteriously in a
dirty office, and has shiny streaks along the
seams of his black coat as if he had been walked
upon by snails; the undefinable person who
calls in and breathes the name of a horse in
one’s ear the week before the Melbourne Cup,
and seems to have no other means of support;
the small sharebroker with the illuminated
nose, who has no office, and lives apparently on
the pavement by the Stock Exchange; the
pony-racing man ; the unaccountable, gaunt
female of despairing aspect, who is always
looking for a situation as governess and never
finding it; the other female who wants to copy
documents in a world where nobody ever wants
any documents copied ; the individual who has
an infallible remedy, which can be heard of by
writing toa box at the post office; the woman who
wants a “ kind gentleman” to lend £3; the dis-
tracted party who desires to get rid of an infant
as per advertisement in the evening press ; and
the kind, motherly person who is willing to
adopt an infant—or forty infants if the chance
presents itself—at from 40s. to £5 a head, and
bring them up respectably and educate them,
and clothe them, and yet make a profit on the
transaction in some manner not fully specified.
This last person is probably the most mys-
terious of all, for not only is she without visible
moans of support, but she is without any visible
means of supporting the immense family which
she adopts so recklessly, and yet the dull, slow-
going law, with its leaden heel and a film over its
Argus eye, never—or hardly ever—takes any
notice of her.
* « «
The motherly person who wants to take in an
infant has her habitat, so far as New South
Wales is concerned, chiefly in the columns of
the metropolitan evening press. There are very
many of her anybody who advertises a loose
offspring with a rather larger premium than
usual will be promptly rushed by many
middle-aged or elderly females, who all desire
to yearn over an uncared-for child for a cash
consideration. They are mostly a frowsy,
strong-minded crowd, and their business is
principally among that class of “ unmarried
mothers ” who possess a little money —the one
who has no money leaves her infant on the road,
or in a paddock, where it dies and is afterwards
discovered by a policeman, and inquested. Out-
side the “ Wanted ” column of the evening
press, their trade is mostly done in
those mysterious establishments where a
“ qualified person” furnishes ladies with
“ first-class accommodation.” At those places
a shady doctor is generally on hand to
prevent unnecessary publicity—an individual
whose great merit is that he sees nothing save
what he is paid to see, and says nothing, and
never makes any trouble. Nobody, as a rule,
registers the births which take place in those
establishments,and the“ kind,motherly person”
takes the superfluous infants away by contract,
with a reduction upon taking a quantity, and
after that they are never heard of again. It is
one of the great features of the business, in
fact, that no infant ever will be heard of again.
Moreover, it would be difficult to hear of them,
even if anyone attempted to do so. The name-
less children who are removed by contract from
those mysterious institutions already mentioned
presently get mixed with the ones that Avere
got by advertisement in the evening publication,
and which possibly were possessed of names,
only all memory of them was presently lost in
■the general confusion. Also, the ones that are
dead get mixed with the ones that are only
dying ; and those that are buried, and those
that are merely taken out and dropped in a
paddock, and those that are taken at £5 and
then traded away again or sub-let at 405., all
got confused together, and when it is necessary
to supply a name—which doesn’t very often
happen—any name serves the purpose. Conse-
quently, the chance of a child that is once
adopted by the “ motherly person ” of the daily
paper advertisement ever turning up again to
trouble anybody is exceedingly limited.
* # #
The practitioner who lives entirely by this
business—and there are some who do so, as
well as many who make it an adjunct to other
trades—must necessarily adopt about one infant
every fortnight to make her occupation even
moderately profitable. This calculation allows
nothing for board and lodging, clothing, educa-
tion, firing, and attendance—it is based on the
impossible assumption that the average child
goes naked, and never cats anything, and wants
no care, no education, and no attendance what-
soever. On this basis the owner of the estab-
lishment could live, and no more. Also, by this
same calculation, after, say, three years of the
trade, she would have a family of 78 infants
with a piospect of indefinite increase. As no
one, either in the trade or out. of it, has such a
family, and as the entire income of the estab-
lishment all this time would probably only
average some 50s. to £5 per week, it is obvious
that the adopter of human waifs and strays
must live by murder pure and simple. If she
let her stock accumulate it would mean absolute
financial ruin. Now and then some unfortunate,
who is unable to provide for her child, and
either cannot pay for the official assassination
or is too humane to trust the work to anybody
else, does her own infanticide, and probably
gets from three to five years in gaol as a conse-
quence ; but for some unexplained reason the
law, which drops so heavily on the woman who
commits murder from pressure of necessity,
takes very little cognisance of the one
who commits murder for £5. Sometimes,
as already mentioned, the latter simply deposits
her charge behind a fence, and leaves it
there to die from exposure. Sometimes she
leases it out for a few shillings to some sub-
ordinate practitioner who does the work at
cheap Chinese rates —the latter being generally
a person who is so drunken, or so tattered, or
so forbidding of expression and broken about
tire nose that she is unable to establish a con-
nection of her own. (generally, however, she
simply plants the adopted son or daughter in a
damp cellar, and in a few days matters arrange
themselves without any unpleasant publicity.
Then, in some cases, a discredited quack
supplies the necessary certificate testifying that
the deceased succumbed to inflammation—the
said certificate being one of a large quantity
that are furnished by the pound, and a cheap
undertaker, with a large connection among
similar establishments, either buries the
deceased or disposes of it in some other way—
possibly unauthorised cremation. At other
times, the deceased simply goes amissing, and is
never accounted for. And in still more cases,
there is no doctor, no certificate, and no under-
taker at all, and where the infant goes to,
whether dead or alive, is left a mystery. It
came into the world unrecorded, and it went
out the same way, and left no footmarks in an
Australian city that could be afterwards identi-
fied.
* * *
Once, and only once, so far as we know, w T as
an effort made to run the trade upon humane
lines, and, as the natural and inevitable result,
the operator got into gaol for a lengthened
term. Being constitutionally averse to infanti-
cide, and recognising the impossibility of rearing
and educating forty children for a lump sum of
£2OO or thereabouts, this lady adopted the
device of collecting t he infant and the money in
the evening, then deposited the former the same
night on the door step of some affluent citizen
at Toorak or St. Kilda, rang the bell furiously
to draw attention to the lost atom of humanity,
and ran for her life. Property-, how'ever, was
much outraged at having so many small, un-
considered trifles thus left on its hands, and
when she was captured and brought before the
Melbourne courts, her sentence was considerably
heavier than thatof the otherhired parent—tried
the other day in the same city—who got rid
of her encumbrance by gradual starvation,
and didn’t distress any capitalist by leaving it
at his door. But even the latter individual—
who got only nine pionths —was much more
unfortunate than the majority of her class, for
ninety-nine per cent, of the practitioners in this
branch of industry go on their way year after
year, and attract no attention whatsoever.
They are the only variety of assassins who ven-
ture to advertise their business openly in the
papers. The advertisement of the baby-farmer
reads almost undisguisedly to the effect that
anybody who is too young and helpless to resist
will he quietly and punctually abolished for a
small fee, and never heard of again. And this
variety of assassination is many shades more
criminal than the ordinary homicide, because it is
done by slow torture, ill-usage, and hunger instead
of by the prompt and comparatively painless
methods of the commonplace Thug —who is
punctually hanged for his doings. Also it is
committed neither under the influence of drink,
jealousy, anger, a sense of injury, or any other
human emotion which could possibly be termed
an extenuating circumstance ; it is a cold,
callous, and utterly mercenary crime done for a
few shillings, and it presents not one redeeming
feature to save its perpetrator from the gallows,
so long as the gallon's is a legal institution.
Yet no Australian jury ever finds the criminal
—on the rare occasions when the criminal is
found at all—guilty of anything worse than
manslaughter, and the penalty inflicted, as a
rule, is a little more than that awarded for
vagrancy, and a little less than that allotted
for petty larceny.
* # *
Last session the New South Wales Legislature
passed a Bill for the greater protection
of infants, whereby a number of elaborate
safeguards were built up. But notwith-
standing this, the same old harridan still
advertises that she will take the customary
infant at the same old price, and the early
spring orphan is hawked round on the half-shell
as heretofore. And so long as the inevitable
advertisement appears in the evening paper
setting forth that a kind motherly person is
willing to undertake the lifelong charge of any
new-born inhabitant, and furnish him or her
with board, lodging, clothing, education, &c.,
for a sum ranging from 40s. to £lO, it remains
a matter of certainty that the law is inoperative
and a failure. Probably the weakest point of
every Act dealing with this subject is that it
does not absolutely prohibit all such advertise-
ments and subject any newspaper proprietor
publishing them to a heavy penalty. The law
already recognises that the process of infant-
fanning is murder almost undisguised; the
farmer’s “ ad.” is a public incitement to murder,
and the publication thereof is~something which
need not be more definitely specified. Also the
law furnishes no alternative to the present
system, for reasons which are sufficiently
obvious. The only alternatives are the establish-
ment of a State institution where nil super-
fluous offspring will be taken in without any
question whatsoever, or the legalisation of a
painless method of infanticide, and the Legisla-
ture lacks the moral courage to face cither
solution of the problem.
Queen Victoria’s Birthday.
One day next week Queen VICTORIA intends
having a birthday, and Australia will keep
holiday in honour of the event, and rejoice
officially with an exceeding great official joy
over its monarch’s natal day. Hardly anybody
in Australia has ever seen Queen Victoria,
but presumably there is such a person, and
with a view to avoiding circumlocution and an
undue waste of pronouns, The Bulletin
generally takes her for granted, and speaks of
her as an ascertained fact. Still she only
exists, for us, upon hearsay evidence, and her
reality has never been absolutely proved. The
world reverenced William Tell for several
centuries, and raised monuments to him, and
wrote his history, and then found out at last
that there had never been such a person. It
has gone in mortal fear of the Devil for 1900
years, and has prayed to be delivered from
him, and has seen him on dark nights holding
orgies with witches and other unholy persons,
and now it is just beginning to realise that
there never was any Devil after all. What the
world knows of Victoria is chiefly that she is
pre-eminent in grief and reigns by the Grace of
Heaven, and as the world is growing more and
more doubtful in this age of dull materialism
that there is a Heaven, the statement rests on
an insecure foundation. The outward evidences
of Victoria’s existence are, principally, the
occasional apparition of a closed carriage or
donkey-cart somewhere in the United Kingdom,
and a hazy allegation that Victoria is inside.
Those who are on the spot only see the vehicle ;
those who are not on the spot only hear that
some alleged persons are alleged to have seen
it. So far as this evidence goes, the genuine
monarch may have died 20 years ago, or may
never have been existent. The Turkish Empire
was ruled for three months by the outside
aspect of a tent with the dead body of Sulvman
the Magnificent inside, and in like manner the
British Empire may be run by the outside of a
shabby vehicle with a myth and a baseless
allegation within. The British nation whoops
for the outside of that vehicle, and grovels
before it, and takes the contents for granted,
and in a certain sense it is wise in doing so. If
there never has been any Victoria at all, but
only some one who pretended to bo her, or only
a general impression that there was someone,
the country gets there just the same. The
English people were much excited at one time
about the doings of a monarch who reigned
over a kingdom that could never be found on a
certain floating island in the Atlantic; and
between the non-existent person who is sup-
posed to be the sovereign of a real country and
the non-existent person who is supposed to rule
an unreal one, there is not much to choose.
# # #
Assuming, however, without any sufficient
evidence, that Victoria is a reality, her birth-
day is going to be celebrated next week—just
as William Tell’s birthday was celebrated
till it was discovered that he never had one.
The reason of the celebration is not very clear.
The English-speaking races, in general, do not
propose to rejoice publicly because Victoria,
who was very, very old twelve months ago, is
now twelve months older. There would be a
depth of cold-blooded meanness in such a pro-
ceeding that even a very mean nation would
hesitate to openly acknowledge. Neither are
they going to rejoice, because, though she is
very old, yet she isn’t so old as she might be ;
the people who could get up much public
enthusiasm over that kind of negative blessing,
would fire off guns because a monarch wasn’t
bald. They do not intend to exuberate because
Victoria isn’t dead, or if they do, the process
is decidedly illogical; for Victoria is alive all
the year round, and if the empire is so glad
that she isn’t dead for one day out of the 365
that it must fire guns and keep holiday over the
circumstance—its utter indifference for the
other 364 days is unaccountable. The devotion
which consists in being glad that its subject is
alive for one day in the year, is very near akin
to the malevolence which wants her to be
dead all the rest of the time. Moreover, if
the festival is based on the mere fact that
she is alive, then Victoria should let off
crackers in her own imperial back yard, and
fire guns herself, and hold her own festival, for
however glad the empire might be that she still
holds out there seems no reason to doubt that
she is very much gladder herself. This remark
applies not only to Victoria but to humanity
in general. However pleased the world may
feel that anybody isn’t dead it isn’t half so well
pleased as the individual himself. Owing to a
certain mystery which hangs over the hereafter
almost everybody is pleased at not being dead,
and the only known exceptions to this rule are
those who would have been much better pleased
if they had never been alive.
# * *
Practically, therefore, the only feasible or
possible explanation is that the English-speak-
ing races propose to rejoice over the bald cir-
cumstance that Victoria has a birthday. As
everybody has a birthday, and as Victoria, in
common with the rest of humanity, didn’t
achieve her anniversary, but had it thrust upon
her in the ordinary, common, irresponsible
way, and as her birthday is of no use to her, any
more than anybody elsc’s birthday is to its
owner, and as she couldn’t help it, and is no
better for it, and as the mere fact of being born
is but a questionable blessing at the best, this
explanation is an exceedingly lame and unsatis-
factory one, but it is the most promising that
presents itself. Yet Victoria, like all the rest
of her kind, was only an accidental circumstance
after all. The whole human race suffers from this
same disadvantage. It is an accidental creation
arising from the purely accidental marriage of
two individuals who met by chance, and were
governed throughout by all manner of external
influences. If they had not met each other
then, through some other accident, they would
probably each have met and married someone
else. Under certain given conditions Victoria
was born to inherit the British crown, and he
grovelled to by her subjects. Under other con-
ditions some one would have been born, but
w hether it would have been Victoria or not is
an unsolved problem. In the one ease it would
be interesting to know where Victoria would
have been, or if she would ever have been at
all ; in the other it would be equally interesting
to know where the other individual is, or
wdiether that other individual is at all. It is
one among the exceedingly few certainties of
life that many millions of the human species
have been born by accident; it is another of
them that, also by accident, many more millions
have somehow missed being born at all. And
even of these two bare and unsatisfactory facts
the first, at least, has been called in question, for
more than one philosopher has arisen to prove
that no person has ever been born or lived or
died at all, that there is nothing and nobody
and noplace to put him if there was anybody,
that there is neither time nor space nor any-
thing else, and that everything is a delusion and
a blank. Among all these conflicting problems
it is difficult to place even the Queen’s Birthday
on a satisfactory footing. And, perhaps it is
for some or all of these reasons, or possibly it is
for the purpose of disguising its emotion,
that the great Anglo-Saxon race generally gets
drunk on this portentous occasion, and wakes
up with a swollen head next day, and then
hangs up the conundrum still unsolved for
another twelve months. In the present instance
it will doubtless get drunk as usual, and some
of it will suicide in the nearest river, and some
will hang itself on a convenient tree, and a part
of it will be fined for bounding on a policeman,
and it will be upset in the harbour, and have its
corns trodden on in the crush at the railw ay-
stations, and in various other ways it will take
its pleasure about as sadly as a consumptive
rejoicing in an hospital, or a solitary prisoner
holding a lonesome revel on hominy in his cell.
And as for the cause of all this festivity, she
will doubtless celebrate in her accustomed man-
ner by visiting the damp tombs of her dead
relations, for she also takes her pleasures
solemnly, and is fond of woe and fiost and
hearses, and similar symbols of a depressed
spirit and a pre-eminence in grief.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Diseased Meat.
Here is an interesting extract from the evi-
dence of a Melbourne butcher, who lately went
the way of all meat—into the Insolvency
Court :
lie used to kill cattle for sale in Paddy’s Market, but
the inspector would condemn his moat nearly every day.
He never could get any good cattle. The “ toil ” butchers
used to secure them, and he had to buy the “rough
’uns.” He had to get a few good cattle to hang in front
of his shop, and this enabled him to sell the bad stuff
which he had at the back. He continually changed the
names of his shops in order to prevent people from know-
ing that the inspector had condemned the meat, and
every time the meat was condemned he put a new name
over the shop and a new man in charge of it. lie could
not say when ho was first prosecuted for selling goals for
lamb, but it was when he was in 36(5 Brunswick-street,
about six months after- he started. His business never
recovered, but he still kept it on. He was prosecuted for
selling unwholesome meat lots of times.
If this evidence proves anything at all it
demonstrates that the butcher who scatters
disease and death among his customers isn’t fined
often enough or heavily enough. The meat in
the present case was condemned “lots of times,”
and the vendor was prosecuted over and over
again, but still lie went on his way and'sold his
loathsome flesh just as before. Evidently, there-
fore, the law was not strong enough to stop him
in his death-dealing course in fact, it would
seem that it paid him better to pay the
fines and go right on selling flukey chops and
gangrened steak than to deal in good meat and
not pay any fines. It was only when he
began to trade in goat -probably in wholesome
goat, for that animal is seldom diseased—
that Nemesis overtook him Unluckily, too (


jhe insolvent under notice is not a solitary
butcher, but a member of a very large and
flourishing class. There are a dozen such
butchers in every Australian city. They may
be known generally by the big tickets on their
heap joints, and by the blackened carcases
that arc festering on the slabs inside the shop,
I the gaunt and hungry-looking women
who paw afc these carcases, and try to pick out
the least offensive one that they may get their
dinner off it, and the bloated sausages that have
rrreen spots on them in some places and black
spots in others, and the air of old age
which pervades the cheap provender gener-
ally. The trade is a profitable one, and
s the law never sends the butcher to
oaol for six months ho simply pays his fine
at regular intervals, and keeps on selling con-
sumptive flesh just as before. There is more
sudden death in the shop of one low-grade
butcher than in six average grog-shanties, but
the butcher isn’t a licensed practitioner in
meat, and so long as he likes to stand the occa-
sional consequences no one prevents him
selling his devastating food till the end of
time. Moreover, even the “respectable”
butcher invariably has his wares exposed in an
unglazed shop front, so that the dust and pollu-
tion of the streets settle upon them and make
them foul, and his carcases are hung low down
so that dogs can sniff at them, and lean up
against them, and slaver hydatids upon them,
auk the sun shines upon them, and the rain
rains on them, and they get the full benefit of
the smoke and the sewer-gas ; and every kind
of infection that is going attaches itself to them.
If the butcher had any sense of the fitness of
things his sign would often be a skeleton with
a scythe in one hand and a leg of beef in the
other, and round its bony neck would be
festooned a pound of sausages as an emblem of
the wrath that is to come.
The W.S.W. Religious Census.
The religious census of New South Wales, the
results of which were published last week, is a
fearful and wonderful document. Among the
one-and-a-quarter million inhabitants of the
province there arc 190 different creeds and
sects, many of which tail off mysteriously into
sub-creeds and odd fragments of sects ; and in
addition to all these there are a large number
who return themselves as belonging to “no
religion another large number who have a
religion but no denomination ; a lot more who
are put down as “unspecified or ill-defined,”
and over 11,000 who stand out altogether, and
refuse to commit themselves. No less than 59
religions have only one supporter apiece, a soli-
tary individual who expects to go to Heaven all
alone, while all the rest of the nation falls with
a thud into perdition. A striking feature just
here is that, in only six instances, is the lone-
some apostle a woman, and the six women who
hold up six deserted creeds all by themselves
appear to be mostly Scotch. Evidently the
average religious female wants a parson to lean
upon, and when she forms a church by herself,
she finds the solitude too much for her. Taking
them all round, the religionists of New South
Wales are a humorous gathering. There are
four “ Calithumpians ” among them, and one
sad and friendless person who puts himself
down as an “ Admirer of Nature,” one “ Pessi-
mist,” and only three who record themselves
as “ Unprejudiced.” Probably three unpre-
judiced Christians out of one-and-a-quarter
millions are all that could reasonably be ex-
pected. There is one—only one “ Believer in
Facts,” and one “ Brotherhood of Man ’’ indi-
vidual with nobody in all the rest of the list to
be a brother to him, also one “ Moralist,” one
“No-Christian,” and a single “Seeker,” one
“Philosopher,” one “ Bellamyite,” and—sad,
unfriended, melancholy, slow, at the tail-end of
the list —a dejected “Fatalist.” Also, there is
one “Open Brethren, ’ which is a cheerful
thing in a land where most of the brethren
seem to be shut fast; and along with these
fanev and comic believers there are a lot of
hard” - shell sectarians who put themselves
down as “ Ecclesiastes VI. only,” “ Ephesians
11., 8,” “Gathered unto Me,” “Nur-
tured in the Admonition of the Lord,
“Hardshell Baptist,” “Do Good,” “Saints,”
and one tough individual who defines himself
as “ Experience.” It is a notaole circumstance
that the church which defines itself as “ Do
Good ” has just one follower. None of the others
say anything about doing good. Judging from
this column and a quarter of assorted cranks,
the women of New South Wales are by far the
more religious half of the community. Where-
cver some lonesome person comes down
with a crash and announces himself as the
proud owner of a particularly godless creed,
he always turns out to be a man.
The Seeker, the Eclectic individual, the
Materialistic Atheist, the Philosopher, the ISio
Christian, the Moralist, the Radical, the
Brotherhood of Man person, the Believer in
Facts, the Iconoclasts, the Positivists, the
Fatalist, the Bellamyite, the Sceptics, Rational-
ists, Nihilist, Non-Intrusionist, Evolutionist,
Natist, Admirer of Nature, Calithumpians, and
the dreary Pessimist—there is not a woman
among them all. Also the particularly self-
sufficient bigots—the Gathered unto Me crowd,
the Open Brother, and a lot more of the same
order—arc males all through. The women of
the community are solid upon the old, orthodox
beliefs and evidently don’t care to take any
risks, or to tool needlessly with the hereafter.
Here and there in the list some garish sect con-
sists of a man and a woman, but in these cases
it is safe to assume that the man invented the
sect and dragged his wife in after him. As for
the six women who have a separate creed apiece,
The Bulletin hereby bets that they are all
out-of-date, unmarriageable widows, and that
they only hang on out of regard for the old
man’s memory.
♦
The man who cables out the sick, old flap-
doodle for the Australian daily press wired
last week, at considerable expense, that “ the
Times states it has been unable to discover the
necessity of Mr. Dinns’ visit to England.” This
thrilling mass of information suggests several
solemn'’thoughts. (1) “The Times” sounds
very imposing, but it only means, after all,
Mr. Walter and another man, and the fact that
they have been unable to discover something,
is just as remarkable as the fact that Mr. Smith,
of Wilcannia, has been unable to find his dog. (2)
Nobody in Australia cares a straw about it, and
the sun will shine just the same, and the price of
beer won’t go up, and the circumstance will
make no difference whatsoever. (3) It is.
lawful for anybody to go where he pleases,
whether the Times sees a necessity for it or
not; for that matter, there are a good many
people who don’t see a necessity for the Times,
but they don’t send cablegrams about it. (4)
Even if the Times did see the necessity for the
visit, or if it saw the necessity for Dikes, or if
Dibbs saw the necessity for the Times, or if
Nebuchadnezzar saw the necessity for Samuel
Griffith, or if everybody saw the necessity for
everybody else, it doesn’t arouse the slightest
interest in anybody’s soul, and the man who
sends out such unspeakable twaddle ought to be
abolished as an outrage on common sense. (5)
Several other reflections arc held over for want
of space.
«.
One day last week nine seamen — three
Swedes, two Frenchmen, two Norwegians,
and a pair of Finns, mostly very weak in their
knowledge of the English language, and
utterly guileless of Australian law — were
brought up at a Sydney police court, charged ,
with “disobedience to lawful orders.” What
the orders were was practically left un-
defined, but presumably they were lawful, more
or less. The captain —who did speak English—
was present to prosecute, and a solicitor was
present to help him. The nine defendants had ,
no solicitor, and they broke down their case at*
the very beginning by pleading “ guilty ” in i
nine different varieties of unintelligible English.
Whether they knew the meaning of the word,
or whether they knew what they were
pleading guilty to, or whether they really
meant to plead “ not guilty ” but got
hold of the wrong expression, and if so,
who supplied them with the expression, were
all points that were left uninvestigated. The
sentence was seven days in gaol, £2 to be stopped
from each man’s wages —presumably for the ,
owner’s benefit, 6s. IGd. each court costs, and !
21s. each for the solicitor, who thus made nine
guineas by sitting in court for ten minutes, and
saying nothing. That unhappy nomad, the
sailor, because he hasn’t, and never had, and
doesn’t seem likely to have a vote, is always
treated with this same extraordinary variety of
law, the like of which is served out to no other
individual under the sun. If he is brutally
kicked, and fed on decayed biscuit and
festering salt -Jiorse, he has practically
no redress, for the courts always look with
suspicion upon his statements, and besides, if
he goes on shore to look for redress, he is
generally arrested for being “ absent without
leave.” If he is unusually successful he may
possibly see a specially brutal skipper fined £5,
and he has the pleasing knowledge that that
potentate will kick him harder and supply him
with worse salt-horse all the return voyage, to
get level, and finish up by putting him in irons,
and charging him with “disobedience,” and
getting him gaoled, and his Avages forfeited. If
he refuses to go aboard again, in view of these
unpleasant possibilities, he is arrested and
fined, and put on board by main force.
There is no earthly reason why the sailor
who is absent from his work should be
gaoled, any more than the M.L.A., or the
Civil Service clerk, or the Premier, or the
Railway Commissioner, or the bishop, under
the same conditions ; only he has no vote, and
the law is built that way. Also the sailor who
disobeys some trivial order, so long as he does
not endanger life by so doing, is no more
criminal than any other employe, from the
Under-Secretary for the Treasury downwards,
who does exactly the same thing. The com-
plaint of the Shiels Government against the
autocratic Speight was that he never paid the
slightest attention to any orders, yet the idea
of having him “run in” didn’t occur even to
David Syme in his wildest dreams. If the
Australian Governments have any sense of jus-
tice they will look into this awful discrepancy
forthwith.
The Ethics of Protection.
As a prelude, we must define what we mean by
Protection, as now that this term is so much used
by the jugglers and bunglers who pose as political
leaders its precise meaning is becoming propor-
tionally obscure.
Let it be understood then that when we talk
about Protection we do not mean the tariff of
Treasurer See, of N.S. Wales, which, though it
maybe right enough as a start, is almost as far
from being protective as that which it has
replaced. Neither should we consider a penny in
the £ on the unimproved value of land the Single-
tax, though that also might be a step in the right
direction.
By Protection we mean the complete thing;
that is, duties sufficiently high to practically
induce the people of this country to produce for
themselves those commodities that could not be
made, mined, or grown with a less total expendi-
ture of human energy elsewhere.
Observe: we say nothing about <£ s. d. Our
standard of value, and the only one we recognise, is
the power' of human muscles guided by human
brains.
Labour men everywhere, no matter whether
they call themselves Freetraders or Protectionists,
are agreed that “ the product of labour is the
natural reward of that labour.”
This being conceded, we should, under a system
of complete Protection, obtain (nationally at least)
the natural reward of our labour in its product.
No just man wants more than this. For instance,
he does not want in exchange for it the product
of the labour of, say, a dozen Chinamen, who
have the misfortune to be owned by a thirteenth
man, who does nothing himself except to part
with the product of their painful toil for less than
equivalent, and as No. 13 gets his goods for
nothing, lie can well afford to be liberal in Ins
trading. Wo are going to assume, then, that the
Single-tax party is mainly composed of just men,
who do not want for their labour more than its
product or equivalent, i.e., the product of an
equal total amount of labour by other people,
whether they be citizens or aliens. This, then,
being the case, it is difficult to see why any demo-
crat should object to the principlo of Protection,
which, as already stated, only aims at preventing
the, competition of the slave-driving outsider.
Upon everv considerable part of the earth’s
surface is to be tomel everything in the way of
raw material required by uuu, and the tastes and
abilities of men are as varied in kind as these sanm
' natural resources. There is, therefore, no physical
• obstacle to prevent Australians attaining the
highest standard of civilisation and material well-
‘ being, even though every description of foreign
trade were destroyed,
Now, as no country has natural advantages,
superior to Australia’s, there is nothing to be
gained by an exchange of products with Europe,
provided the exchange is a fair one, and each side
gets full value. In fact, we not only gain nothing,
but lose on the transaction to the extent of freight
and importers’ and exporters’ charges. The exist-
ing trade between Australia and the rest of the
world is simply an arrangement whereby wo.
barter our raw materials for their manufactures.
Meanwhile we either rob or get robbed, or
conduct the business at a mutual loss. Now, if
wo arc to continue producers of raw materials
only, how are we to provide employment for all
our citizens?
At the present time our produce is practically
unsaleable, which indicates that there are too
many people here now for such a purpose.
If we are to continue producers of raw materials i
only we must got rid of our unemployed, and as i
there is nothing for them to do here, the logical
course would be either to kill them or send them
back to Europe to increase by their consumption .
there the volume of our export trade. Also, every
Australian child who manifested a preference for
manufacturing should either be slain or else torn
away from his Australian homo and sent to follow *
his natural calling amidst the smoky squalor of i
the Northern nations.
Trade cuts for itself deep channels, and along i
these channels it will continue to run whether for ;
weal or woe, until some gigantic effort is made to- -
divert it into new ones. Until this effort has |
been made by us we cannot have Australian
manufactures.
Protection, either in the form of Customs duties |
or direct prohibition, is the only lever with which |
the necessary force can be obtained to secure the J
diversion of manufacturing industries to Aus- j
tralia. -
If a man walking alongside a level line of rail- ;
way where some ten-ton trucks were being shunted
got behind one of the detached wagons before it had
quite stopped and shoved with a force of 801bs. he '
could keep the vehicle going so long as he chose to
apply his 801bs. pressure. Let him, however,
allow the waggon to come to a standstill and then ,
try to move it, he will have to push a long way f
harder than 801bs. before he stirs it an inch. This
is what mechanicians term the “Friction of Rest,”
or the extra force with which a stationary body
resists being moved as compared with the force
which the same body in motion would require to
be maintained in motion.
There is an exact parallel to this in political
economy. If we wish to start new industries we.
must be prepared to give them a handsome pre-
liminary shove-off —which means in practice a
tariff considerably higher than would be prohibi-
tive under normal conditions.
A tariff ceases to be a tax as soon as it becomes
protective, and areally protective tariff does not
rob the community, it only prevents the com-
munity from robbing the individual, particu-
larly the large community of non-producers
from preying upon the smaller community
of hona-fi.de wealth-producing workers by securing
them against iniquitous foreign competition.
Moreover, if any citizen considers himself robbed,
he is quite free to start competition with the
“ robber,” which he will do quickly enough if he
thinks it worth his while.
If the Australian workingman wants to pay
other people less for their labour than he expects
to receive for a similar quantity of his own, he is
morally as much a slave-owner as a Queensland
planter with his kidnapped Kanakas —and the
Australian capitalist -would be quite justified in
treating him with as little consideration as the
said working-man extended to other working-men
less fortunate than himself.
The most common objection Single-taxers have
to Protection is this. They say ; —“ Give us Land
Nationalisation and we won’t need Protection,
because we will be able to manufacture more
cheaply than any other people on the face of the
earth, be they bond or free.”
In reply to this stock argument it is sufficient
to say : “ If you will be able to do this, Protection
cannot hurt you, for the duties would practically
be a dead letter, as no one would be so foolish as
to send coals to Newcastle.” “Help us to get
Protection and we will help you to obtain Land
Nationalisation.”
Moreover, capitalists as a class directly or
indirectly enjoy the economic advantage of free
land, and foreign capitalists so circumstanced
would have to be competed with even if our own
territory were nationalised, unless we had Protec-
tion in addition.
An experienced Sydney publican says that
trust results not only in a loss of beer, but in a
loss of custom as well. In most cases, a man who
“ goes on the slate ” is never seen again. It is
usual “ in the trade,” when the impecunious one
—if he be a decent man—asks credit, for Bung to
say, “ I don’t trust, but I’ll give it to you.” Bung
understands the art of throwing a sprat to catch
a m ackeral.
Morris Hepner, of Dunedin (M.L.), died
the other day with a newspaper in his hand. He
had been reading a brutal assault trial, which
broke off abruptly just at the most interesting
part, when a witness was testifying how the
plaintiff had been banged with a shovel, the court
having adjourned for the day. Then the old man
lifted up his voice querulously and stated that
they shouldn’t knock off like that, as a fellow
might never live to read the other instalment of
the story, and with that he fell on the floor and
died, lie’ll read the balance of that assault case
in a better world.
Dear Bulletin, —Absurd to talk about
settling the people on the land when a follow has
to fight two, and sometimes half-a-dozen squatters
and a host of jackeroos. When Cocky lias done
his five years the boss comes along and offers him
a few shillings per acre—a price, perhaps, that
wouldn’t keep a Chinaman in rice for six months.
Sometimes Cocky won’t “ bite ” at the price—
result; that locality is straightway seized with a
violent attack of spontaneous combustion.
The look-out man reports the run on fire,
and two squatters are promptly in the
saddle and on the spot. Cocky is out
shooting scrub-wallabies; he sees the smoke
and is soon battling with the flames, doing
his best to save Lis bit of grain. The squatter,
too, lends a hand ;so do his men. After all is put
out, they accuse Cocky of firing the grass, and in a
few days’ time he, in answer to a summons, finds
himself before a P.M. and three bulky squatters,
charged with combusting Swindlurn run. He is
duly committed to stand his trial at next Circuit
Court, which will just give him time to mortgage
his selection to provide money for his defence.
Possibly ho gets off. If he does, he isn’t able to
pay interest on money borrowed, so he is presently
sold up and the squatter t ikes the lot. We’re a
wonderful people, we are- Yours, Onthewallabv.
CORRESPONDENCE
■h T o nolice will he taken of'commnniccitloits which arrive
cii this office insufficiently stamped.
“ C. Junor ” : No 'l'nle'E'can pre-
vent moral insanity under present'Conditions. (1) We
; don’t know for-certain what, 'moral insanity is. (2) Moral
; sanity is not well defined—some authorities say it Consists
in a belief in hell, and others in hein<r Contented and not
belonging to a trades-union, &c. (3) The 'man who draws
up the rules might be morally insane. (4) We may be
morally insane ourselves—we don’t know. (5) If you
have children examined for traces Of moral lunacy bow
do you know that the examiner is not a'moral lunatic,
and if he is what good is 'the 'exalra. ?,...“ R. J.P.” :
Handed to artist for consideration... “J. 8.” (Sydney):
Stopping the supplies is a desperately stupid way of
coercing the Upper House. The Councillors are not paid,
and can get through without supplies....“ Singapore ” :
We can t get the hang of the obscure jungle squabbles in
fhe Straits region “Ratfus” {Navarre, Vic.): Your
story of how THE Bulletin editor was killed by a
rejected contributor is too injurious to our feelings
“M.P.P,” (Brisbane P. 0.): Letter for you at P.O
“ J.H.G,” (Melb.): You must write to office of Boston
Pilot (U.S.A.) for a complete edition of John Boyle
j O’Reilly’s poems “ Phoenix ” : Your Brisbane sketch
' will conic in handy as a kelldck when the chief compositor
goes out fishing.... “ A.P.D.” (Prahran) : Twelve solemn
pages about Deeming by a man who goes down hea\ ily
into the uttermost bowels of the subject, isn’t good
enough... “ Robt. K.T.” (Sackeille): Two lines are
enough—
“ This week a sol'd, six-for.t wight
Has crossed the Great Australian Bight.”
The whole poem would kill any paper “J.P.B.
Received with mitigated gratitude—owing to the story’s
extreme old age “R. Park”: We want the
fresh spring anecdote in its fust bloom, not
the fallen tale in the autumn of its days
“-Rationalist”: You ask “ Why do some so horribly die
with a ghoulish, blood-stained pall ?” That’s right, but a
more serious question is, “ Why do some others so hor-
ribly remain alive?”... “ J.S.” (Georgetown): Thanks.
... “Paroo” (Barringun): The rice story has been told
n The Bulletin a’reidy. The other is too old . .“E.A.C.
(Adelaide): We will “refrain from mentioning nnrves,"
as requested. In fact, we will refrain from mentioning
anything... “ Cosmos ” ; Thanks “ Duckandingie ” :
The tale of the local member and the Irish harridan and
the “housekeeper” is a good story spoilt by over-
coarseness in the telling.... “ J.M.” (Cloncuny): Thanks,
but your mean man isn’t mean enough for publication.
“Father Bargo” (Mittagong): The man who writes
to a paper to make such an announcement is devoid of all
the finer sentiments of humanity “G. M‘A.”: Dog- 1
gerel about “Mary” is only interesting to Mary herself,
as a rule. This particular doggerel would probably make
Mary wish she were dead... “ Wheatsheaf ” ; Thanks....
“ Subscriber” : Yes, Parkes’ speech as a member of that
deputation was somewhat eloquent, but it was a poor
specimen of oratory' compared with Dailey’s on the same
occasion... “A.E.E.” (Tas.): Joke thin, drawing too
rough to be reproducible....“ Lex ” (Araluen): We read
it with much interest up to the last line and were sold to
find there was no climax....““ R.H.F.” : Fact is that
Sydney people really don’t know enough about the rival
Broken-hill water “schemes” to honestly take sides in
the matter. .. “ Yank.” : Your suggestion for illustrat'd!
falls flat. It is no new thing for a Legislative Councillor
to be drunk “Lardy”: So the difference between
Williams and the sun is that “ one is daily beaming and
the other is Bay ley Deeming.” Thanks ..“A.C.S.”;
Deeming has been a veritable gold-mine to the papers,
but they’ll soon lose the run of the 10de... “A Reader ” :
More “hints” welcome “J.M.” (Rooty Hill): What
would be the use of printing so misty a query?
“F.F.”: If it costs £3OO or £4OO to get into Parliament,
what can you say but bribery and corruption ?....
“ Mus.” : With every horror for the Anarchistas popularly
understood, you ask what are the grievances which turn
citizens into tigers. Look, the perfect system is one that
keeps eight million professional cut throats and dyna-
miters in Europe, good citizens who’ll blow each other up
without any grievance whatsoever! “A.M.K.”: How
can the Queensland Govt, “effectively supervise” nigger-
catching operations over such a waste of waters?
“ N.Q.” (Malaga): Locally amusing 7 no doubt, but the
humour of it isn’t apparent from this distance “ Henry
Milton” (Hamilton): Many thanks for the information ...
“ Disciple ” ; Please boil it down. You see, The Bulletin
can’t maunder about things in daily press fashion
“ Northerner” : As you don’t send name and address, we
can’t write you... “ A Subscriber” (Adelaide): You are
right; the Australasian is wrong. Tawell was the first
murderer arrested per medium of the electric telegraph
....“On the Wallaby”: Received with thanks
“ E.C.” : We really don’t know why the Rev. A. R.
Withers left St. Andrews “ F. Wilckens ” : Unsuitable.
... “J.L.F.”: You are in error; the Statute of Limita-
tions doesn’t enable a man to skip, and. at the end of six
years, go back to smile at his creditors. The statute only
applies in cases where judgment has not been obtained
through the creditor’s default “Old Jim” (Carlton):
Your “Recollections” are far too voluminous for this
skimpy earth “F.M.H.” (Carlton): Idea good; story
weak. If the “Charge of the Light Brigade” were told
that way, it would be as dull as a hen’s march to the ash-
heap. ... “ Pakeha” : Declined, for reasons that would
rend the heavens if we told them “ Blackbutt”:
Thanks “ Joe M.” (Orange, N.S.W.): Admitted. Any-
body can oriyinate an old joke, but everyone can’t fur-
nish an old joke with a good and original drawing
“ Orson Street” (Hay, N.5.W.,: You only inferentially
connect the National Ass. with suspected roll-stuffing. If
the names you mention are not on any roll, they have a
right, on the basis of manhood suffrage, to be inserted.
It they are on another roll, and this is a double-banking
against One-man-one-vote, a case of hanky-panky can he
understood. But you don’t say that much “ Sub-
scriber ” (Broken Hill): The dull, gruesome, maudlin
obituary isn’t in our line. We are not a tombstone..-.,
“ Liberty ” (Moruya): Too coimnonp'ace. When a man
goes shooting in a swamp he always gets wet it the watei
happens to be moist that day “ J.R.” (Winton): SWrv
already appeared in The Bulletin. ..“W.M.G.”: Yout
lengthy yarn can be boiled down to one line—the cook
tried to cut bis throat “ Viator” Thanks ...“The
Shadow”; Bill’s suicide is regretfully declined. It is
probably the best’thing Bill could do, and we wouldn’t
like to discourage him.. “ Conel ” ; Hardly up to standard
in any case “Boiling Billy”: Received with thanks
“ E.D.” : Did you ever ride a camel at full split ? Yout
verse is remarkably like that animal . . “Oinx”: The
poet who writes about parasites crawling over the upper
classes, and makes “naked” rhyme with “ daughter,” is
very small potatoes, and few in a hill “Childe Harold”;
Is it a parody, or an American joke, or a hunk from a
Sunday-school book, or what? “Carbeco” (Melb.):
Very like a great many other horse-stories, hut will con-
sider “ John J. G.” (N.Q.): “ You had better get him
summoned in Sydney or Melbourne for the amount of the
valueless cheques he passed on you in Queensland. As lie
is posing as a pietist and travelling©!! his alleged holiness,
he might be bluffed into paying by fear of exposure. A
local lawyer could tell you whether a judgment obtained
for such an amount up North could be enforced outside
the province. [Many replies he'd over.]
Brisbane Courier recently ventilated the
“instinctive criminality” story of the half-
civilised black boy who warned his white mnstei
never to stoop down again to lap at a watcrhole,
as “debbil-debbil tell mo kill yon.” This yarn
has been told of Governor King, Dr. Lang, Jack
Robertson, Russell, Capt. Macarthur, Burke,
Leichhardt, Wentworth, Gregory, Stm t, Christie
Palmerston, Hodgkinson, Landsborongh, Bourne,
Mitchell, and. in fact, of anybody whose name
gave it a sounding currency.


Sussex-street, Sydney.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, May 18,1892.
Dear Moorabinua,—
Judging from the many stories one hears of the gilded
youths foaming at the mouth over the neat way in which
Angelina has choused them out of their love-gifts, I am
beginning to think that the engaged young man ought
never to give a present, only a specification. For
instance, Romeo might say, “ Here, my darling, is the
rear and front elevation of a diamond ring I will give you
when we are married,” or “ How do you like the ground-
plan of this ruby bangle, dnckey ? It’s yours the day you
become Mrs. Dash,’ and the girl would hang on to him
like grim death—or even it she didn’t there wouldn’t be
Such unseemly back talk over present-returning as there
is now. According to etiquette, the gentleman cannot
ask for ’em back if his life depended upon it, but from
what I see of it they do everything but ask. The latest
wail is from a badly-plundered southern Edwin. His
ex-girl, in response to a letter demanding them all back,
arranged his love-tokens in artistic groups, had them
photographed and sent him, a copy !' And he keeps the
picture framed and shows it to all and sundry. What
congenial couple they might have made!
Sydney is essentially* a free-show city, and it is aston-
ishing how* big a party* a typical Mrs. So-and-so rakea
together when she is invited to. bring it on a card—con-
sequently, Miss Dora pianoforte-recital
op Thursday* last, at \. M.O. A.,was asfullas Heaven ought
to be by now. Miss B, was assisted, by charming Mrs.
Yanderveer Greene, in bright array—cream satin and
aged pearls, with hip-bouquet of autumn leaves—who,
sang a sleepy song or two very sweetly, but she really
should n t say* “deay” for “day*,” or “angils” for
angels. Dgslouis, with a white boutonniere (what a
festh e thing is a boutonniere on a Frenchman ! whereas
the beflowered Englishman has the same emotional effect
upon the beholder as has a parsley-garnished cold cut
joint) sang an aria from Le Roi de Lahore like an artist,
a..d refused the warm encore, and Kowalski was also on
deck. Viewed in the bpny lights that beat about a
ppblic pianiste it becomes plain that Miss Baggd’s music
will never make the trees dance—but the stage was
beautifully decorated with potted plants, and “she ” was
almost smothered in flowers. “ She ought to be satisfied,”
said somebody as the evening progressed, and really
When you come to think of it that is the most good-
humoured point of view to. regal’d the amateur recital
from, isn’t it ?
l?ut yet I, must rise to remonstrate with these gifted
amateurs who take halls and invite criticism, because
they* are in danger of becoming a nuisance. Now-a-days,
if a gill fiddles, or squalls, or thumps just decently*, she
takes a hall and invites the public to see her do it. And we
hearken and wonder and weep while the star of the evening,
with her longest-tailed gown on, and powder between her
slioulder-blades, undulates among the ferns and fairy
lamps, and apes the artist in everything but execution.
The lady who figures in front of every* one of her friends
entirely to her own satisfaction, doesn’t know how unreal
and ridiculous, the whole thing seems to be to a pensive
outsider. Admiring friends are dreadful impostors.
The lawn-tennis tournament, came to an end on Sydney
Ass. Ground on 14th inst., and Lady* Jersey, in silver
hncade, trimmed with grey feathers, front of folded grey
chiffon, and a bonnet not at all en suite, gave the guer-
dons away to the winners at the close of the afternoon.
Apropos, when Her Ex. stood bolt upright at the top of
the steps, while a hoy rang a big auction-bell to attract
tjie crowd, it really looked as if that gracious personage
was going for what she would fetch. It only needed the
presence of a dark fat man with a hook nose and a white
waistcoat, to make one believe her ladyship was about to be
sold without reserve. The prizes were the usual things
silver mugs, and so on, and it was deeply amusing to see
how the champions took their laurels. The women were
most natural under the trying circumstances—women
always are when it’s a matter of publicly posing, but
the bowing of the male element argued that tennis
doesn’t bring out a man’s gracefulness, nor teach him
not to turn his toes in. One tall, thin champion—
who went off with a big silver quart measure in either
hand looking for all the world as if he were an industrious
pot-boy*— stumbled up the steps to receive his blushing
honours with his tongue out like an ant-eater-but if
people are embarrassed by Lady Jersey it is their own
fault, for she certainly has the knack of prize-giving. You
couldn’t imagine a more re-assuring manner.
Most of the women at the tennis final had evidently
used two mirrors in dressing, and the general effect was
frbbk'y. I spotted out what I, believe was the prettiest
wbman there in a rich robe of brown corduroy*, velvet
toque trimmed with mushroom bengaline and topped off
with brown, and wide-feathered brown hat; somebodyin
snuff-brown made one wood r why the woman with a hen
profile trims herself with hen-feathers ? One may he too
eii suite, remembah. And other people forced me to the
eohdusion that the monkey-faced woman is a fool to trim
her long coat-tails with fur—it reminds one of the atavis-
tic’theory, for one thing. And the girl with the poodle
face, who wears a leather collar to her gown, does so at
hi?r own risk.
t'arington Centennial Convalescent Hospital (Mr.
Paling’s splendid gift-and in the same bracket I wish
people wouldn’t choose titles by the Hungarian mile) must
b ll’ve benefited by the big attendance of the'Doll and
I’.ihi'ushion Fair bi centennial Hall, on 13tli inst. Despite
tile ominousness of the ’date (13th) and day (Friday ) the
first day was a success at two-and-six per adult, with Lady*
Jersey, ih heliotrope and the talking mood, so that the
people got their money’s worth. Chumley was viceregal
odhvoy foF the occasion, for which the girls at the stalls
were glad ; at the bazaar last year another member of the
vice-regal suite was on guard, and they said it was easier
to get a needle through a camel than a shilling out of the
noble aide—but Chumleyacted like a sportsman round the
fish pond. There was a representative crowd. Lady
Charles Scott in rough brown cheviot and brown fur
tippet, with her two sisters in blue and coral red; Lady
Innesin grey and black stripes trimmed with black ; Miss
Innes in grey combined with insertion guipure; the
Bishop’s chaperone brought her two nieces ; Sir Alfred
Stephen, who walked here and there with his daughter’s
aid ; Miss Nellie Hill, in navy blue, had a very becoming
bonnet; Mrs. (Mayoress) Manning in dark-blue and tan—
but, after all, I didn’t go to look at the people.
How the women do worship “ rank ! ” Did you notice
that with a single exception, the judges of work at the
fairaforesaid were all “Ladies?”
The bazaar was very dreamily draped, and the stalls
looked an artistic jumble of bright colours. Pin-cushions
were the pieces of resistance, and some of the designs
wore fairly new. The first prize for originality was given to
a doll arranged on a fizz-bottle. It was acharming dol! in
white satin as “Queen of Hearts,” but T hardly saw
where the originality of the pin-cushion came in, except
that mannikin pins were stuck round appliqu6 hearts
from whence it would require a Chinese length of nail to
dislodge them. I liked a little skeleton with a black net
inside which ran up to its skull and you stuck pins into
his cerebrum. A stuffed kid glove with pins in the palm
was horrible—a woman who could stick pins into a thing
like that would stick a pin into her husband ; and another
on the ghastly side was a coffin you raised the lid
and stuck pins into the stuffed effigy of a corpse ! The
tiny cushion must have needed deft fingers, but other-
wise the idea was foolish, and one cake-shaped cushion
was inscribed “Blessed are the merciful’’—for they shal 1
give you a pin, I suppose.
I am sorry I missed the amateur Shakesperean entertain-
ment in aid of Sydney Women's College, for, I hear, it was a
great success. “Juliet ” and “Katherine” (in Henry Vee)
played by the same pretty girl, were quite too pleasing, I
am told, if an applauding audience is anything to go upon,
Butdoesn’t it seem rather Sisyphus-like—though it must be
dreadfully necessary—this ceaseless toil of entertainments
in the cause of the Women’s College bag? The two greatest
working expenses—principal’s screw and house-rent—
together amount to £Bo} per annum, and to pay that off
there are only three students as you might put it-one of
whom is located in the Women’s College for the same
reason that an everyday person puts a china egg under
the hen. Now, viewed with the cold-boiled optic of icy
calculation, doesn’t it seem like great waste of nervous
energy for various nice, if faddy, people to go bald worry,
iug about making that £BOO a sure and certain debt just
so that three charming young lady students shan’t be
boarded out ? Anybody would think the Women’s
College board was composed of philanthropic mashers!
Of course, the said board could soon have S.R.O,
hanging gracefully from the bell-pull if they liked
to lower their terms, but they mean to keep the
“ fee ’ up far above the means of the girl who can’t
afford to ti’ot up to her “classes” in a private hansom,
and while they keep it up I’m afraid their enthusiastic
admirers will have to fly to Shakespeare many many
times. The College can’t pay for its own oats with only'’
three bags of grist in the mill. This may be a doubtful
metaphor, but it is simply beautiful sense.
There is a forest of frocking in “ Diplomacy ” as it is
exhibited at Sydney Criterion, and the way the ladies
dress is a big advt. for the treasury of that haunt of
delight. Emma Temple and Florence Seymour divide
sartorial honours, because Mrs. Molyneux’s Dora is com-
pelled to wear ingenious frocks of the floppy description,
for I have noticed that, on the stage, it’s only the bad
character whose frock is a perfect fit. In the first act
Miss Temple wears a white woollen gown trimmed with
white astrachan and gold braid; disc hat (by the way,
oughtn’t the flat disc hat with one upright, main-sheet-
shaped bow of ribbon to be called (he sun-dial ? It is so
like it), trimmed with white silk and a nest of white
birds; Seymour in fine grey brocade, satin duchesse and
grey passementerie, but I didn’t like her hat—it was too
cylindrical. In act 2, Seymour led off with a dazzler—
mushroom leaf brocade very dodgefully mixed up with
white duchesse and silver and gold passementerie ; three-
cornered hat of white velvet, which was tilted too far to
loo’ard, by the way. Temple was in, salmon-pink and.
black, quietly contrasted, the coat-tails, edged with
feather fur; small black tulle bonnet—a turn-out that
became her exceedingly. In the last act Seymour
evidently gets-up to look like Mephisto, with a small
Scarlet bonnet and true Mephistopheles cloak in black
satin. There waa one thing which puzzled me in
“Diplomacy how on earth I.yndal fitted his feet into,
those tooth-pick boots?
Bland Holt, in “London Day by Day,” at the Royal,
sported the most fascinating garment on the stage—a
particularly smart, putty-coloured topcoat, with satin-
lined cape—a covering that ought to catch on with the
Sydney Johnnie as did the scarlet-lined coat of Bellew’s
Scarpia; also, Bland Holt wears ruby weskit-buttons as
Harry Ascalon. Viewed in the light of the Osborne Pearl
case, the motif of “ London Day by Day ”—the faithful-
ness of a man towards an accused woman out of gaol on
a ticket-of-leave—looks more reasonable than it did last
year, when you couldn’t help wondering if the everyday
society man was built that way, and Kate Bishop’s sym-
pathetic style makes it still more probable, I liked best
her dark-blue cloth Princess robe, trimmed with beaver
fur, which was really nobby. There was a good circle,
including Mrs. Bland Holt, who wore a yellow diamond
silk, with diamond crescent in the hair, and held quite a
levfee between acts.
There is always much pow-wow and talkee among the
mixed members of the Sydney School of Arts Library,
and it’s always the women who shriek loudest. But I
can’t sympathise with their recent indignation over the
yearly fee for ladies being raised. If I were the secretary
I would charge the women just double what I would the
men—not because I wish to pet the shaved half cf
humanity, but because
Even aldermen (I have never seen one weighing less
than fifteen stun) play kittenish pranks when they are off
on a picnic-tour. A correspondent tells of tricks played
in a Southern town recently. One wag directed a jovinj
city father (after the banquet) to the wrong bed-chamber,
which, of course, wasn’t unoccupied, and the alderman
fled in his socks. Another mad wag substituted a po-
mauteau full of lady’s lingerie tor the traps of a pompon*
magnate who was howling in a dressing-gown until half-
an-honr before the banquet. But cannot the Town Hall
give us something new by way of a joke? The world is
so tired of the wrong-door and the ruffled petticoats.
Have you heard the latest little blackmail story ? They
were two rich men and they went South without their
wives, and while away they did an innocent act of kind-
ness to a few hard-working girls and quite forgot to men-
tion it when they got home. But the other day when one
of them threatened to sue a well-known slippery foreigner
for several hundred pounds, money lent, he vowed he
would tell the whole Arcadian story to their wives if they
proceeded against him ! Consequently the summons
wasn’t issued. It was only an innocent act of kindness,
of course, but the world is so given to wink its other eye,
Married “society” men on their travels should beware
of that slippery foreigner—if all I bear is true. Once he
invited a couple of roving Benedicts to a little supper to
meet some lady friends. The lady friends all had golden
hair and beautiful complexions, and, six months later,
the host demanded heavy cheques,from his two guests,
who hadn't thought the ladies and the supper worth
while mentioning at home. They paid, of course, in the
interests of domestic peace and quiet. Both these stones
go to show how thoroughly woman lias got man under
her thumb.
The second Government House hall of the season took
place on 12th inst., and received the same inevitable
success that dogs the footsteps of everything Y.R, Lady
Jersey—who looks quite fagged—was fittingly attired in a
blue gown, that possibly somebody there hadn’t seen
before ; the two house-daughters, also in blue, had tire
effect of utilising the pieces. Chumley welcomed the
guests, amongst whom were Max O’Reil and his women-
folk, and one spirited youth recovered sufficient spirits to
hail another with “ Iluiloa, Cockroach!” By the way, the
Jerseys dodge the coming and speed the parting guest
very cleverly. On this occasion they entered the ball-
room at a quarter to ten, and supper—soon after which
most right-minded people go away—was put on at 11!
One hour and a quarter of social martyrdom is what the
Jerseys arrange for ; for there is always the foolish
maiden who stays till the hostess yawns to he reckoned
with.
I am quite pleased to see it advertised in a Sydney
daily that a “ young lady, who has passed Univ. exam.,
wants position of trust, shop or private family.” Because
it proves that every woman who surges up to the ’Varsity,
and indulges in a more or less successful tug of intellect
in merry March, doesn’t always discover that now she
knows B from a bull’s foot. Anything but dreary
scholasticism is “low.” Really, education is wanted all
over the house—from the coals to the cock-loft, and if
the ’Varsity girl is going to he sensible, and exercise her
mental faculties, just so as to be a brainy woman who
doesn’t boundary-fence her existence with arithmetic and
irritated infants just because she once cut a successful
figure on an examination list - well, the ’Varsity girl has
my sincerest wishes.
That was a curious advt. which “ two Tasmanian sisters”
inserted in a London paper recently—thanking the police
for their courteous attentions—curious in Australia at
least where policeman B 42 stands on the kerb with his
mouth open while old ladies fall helplessly out of cabs, or
dodge and double among the traffic. But I am told the
London policeman is quite a feature. He takes you on
his arm and guides you across streets as if you were a
poodle-bn a string ; he finds you almost before you are
lost and restores you to your relatives whether you have
any or not, and you may drop packages as if you were a
moulting Christmas-tree in the sure and certain hope
that lie will find every one of them. No wonder the
Tasmanian sisters brokenly blessed bobby on parting. I
hope they tipped him, too. The very best line of blessing
wants at least two-and-Six as a sinker.
What do you think of Hie woman who wears a slide
with “Pet,” in diamonds, on it in her hack hair at the
theatre? Isn’t she just as bad as the lady with a squint
who fastens her collar with a “ Darling ” brooch, and has
a stand-up fight with the tram-guard before she has gone
one street?
The report that Miss Bnrdekiu’s. marriage has been
postponed is incorrect. The wedding-day has never been
definitely arranged.
Ministering Children’s. Fresh Air League hold a ball in
aid of the very good cause on, 30th. inst, in the Centennial
Hall. Mrs. Mailler Kendal, College-street, is chief secre-
tary, and tickets, are selling like cheap umbrellas in a
thunderstorm,
I hear that the ladies of the Austral Salon, having
done so well in the way of tickets for the inquest and trial,
are pushing the authorities very hard for admission to,the
execution of Deeming. The whole pack want lo be in at
the death, if possible. lam further told that after the
instructive medical lessons they received at the trial they
consider themselves quite competent to diagnose the cases
of any of the male associates of the Salon who “don’t
feel well.”
Another Southern item is that a certain knight, having
cast his eye on a pretty ladies’ maid at a vice-regal resi-
dence, now much prefers standing to sitting. Yes, he was
actually kicked and kicked hard—by an able-bodied
flunkey.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
A writer in a Sydney paper says his land-
lady “could cover Moore Park with a pound of
bu Merino.”
It is most convenient to have a first-class
room near tram stopping places, where ladies
can rest themselves, and if they choose, have a
good cup of tea, or other refreshments. We
understand the Country Milk Co.’s “Cascade,”
SO and 82 Elizabeth-street, near King-street, is
just the place; it is certainly the largest and best-
conducted room in Sydney, and is getting quite
the fashionable resort for afternoon tea. We also
under .land that ladies whp. so desire can have
parcels sent there, so that they can call for them,
just before taking the tram for home.*'
Use Batuo’s Baking Powder.
Catarrh, when chronic, become very offensive.
It is impossible to be otherwise healthy, and, at
the same time, afflicted with catarrh. This dis-
agreeable disease can be cured by the use of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla.
Where there’s a woman to be found,
In palace or in hovel, »
You’ll also hit on, I’ll he hound,
A Novel.
“ Master is out,” at billiards, smoking,
Down town—not far ;
At home his wife her brain is stoking
With Zola.
Bridget or Mary, Jane or Bella,
Housemaid or cook,
Keeps always hidden in (he cellar
A hook.
A,nd when Jack takes his lovely Mina
fn boat or trap,
It’s always she hawks Olive Schreiner
In a strap.
Plain English.
(With apologies to T.he Bulletin.) l
\V )I Kn you arc suffering from, indigestion no good
cun result from taking tonics or,stimulants, which
create a false appetite and conduce to an overload*
ing of the stomach at. a, time when the digestive
organs are incapable of performing their proper
functions. If a stimulant is fancied the desire can
be effectually, but only temporarily, satisfied by
taking a teaspoonfnl of brandy diluted with water,
but it a permanent euro for indigestion is desired
take Boot s Indigestion Cure, wliicli is not a “cure
all claiming tb be a specific for every epidemic
that arises—but is an absolute cure for Indigestion
only.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Little Jack Sheppard.*'
Theatre Royali “ London Day By Bay.'*
Criterion “Diplomacy.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess' Italian Opera and “Jo. 14
Opera House Gaiety Burlesque.
Di.iotr .... “Gloriana.”
Theatre R0ya1..." “ A Sailor’s Knot."
Alexandra “ Dead Beat.”
Athenasum Hall Max O’Rell.
Friday last at Sydney Royal saw the final
performance of Pettitt and Buchanan’s eminently
virtuous combination of limelight and stage-
carpentry, “ The Trumpet Call,” and on Saturday
night was revived the good old New-Babylonesque
of “London Lay by Day,” which has, however
a deal of country in it, and not a little midnight!
The plot of the present production is crassly
simple, and as ancient as Lear in its abject com-
monplaceness. The inevitable girl who is im-
possibly virtuous, but who likewise appears to
nearly everybody but the impossibly good young
man who believes m her, to be proportionately
impossibly vicious, meanders through many
beautifully - painted acres of glorified scenery
to a triumphant recrudescence of her hypo-
thetical goodness at a late date, and all ends
happily ever afterwards. The good young
man whose faith in the maiden aforesaid is
built, like Mr. Gladstone’s, upon an immovable
rock, is a chirpy brand of “chappie’’who does a
deal of naughtiness with the air and unction of a
saint, and who, when not making insouciant love
under a dove-cote, is usually engaged in singing
pro-notes for a humorous Hebraic swindler who
ought to have made several fortunes as premier
clown of a high-class circus. Of course, there is
the villain whose English is fringed with French
but whose colloquial Anglo-Saxon is an excellent
article whenever he is in a hurry, whose clothes tit
like a glove, whose cigars appear at a distance to
be above all price, and whose wickedness is a
superfine line of goods with gilt edgings and many
varieties of seductiveness. The play is rich also in
a heavy father who is a general, and an American
who has lived 30 years in Chicago in a vain
endeavour to master an Irish brogue, a gardener
who drives a hansom and wins prize-fights be-
tween his fares, a lord who is billed also as a
“baronet,” a reformed solicitor whose villainy
breaks out occasionally between broad interstices
of much innate virtue, and many other people of
all sorts and conditions, who do their honest best
to add an attraction to scenery which is beyond
all praise. In all, 29 billed performers glide
between the glimpses of the footlights, assisted in
a vaguely generous way by many unbilled citizens,
policemen, Bohemians, and a number of other
individuals eloquently classed as “ etc.”
* * #
“London Day by Day” gives the ever-
Eland Holt a big opportunity to shine—and he
firmly grasps it by the fetlock. His Harry Ascalon
is a massive creation snatched from the gilded
spaces of an idealised Petticoat Lane, soaked in
the aurated atmosphere of Lombard-street, and
dried in the salubrious vapours of Seven Dials.
It riots in the morality of the pawnshop, and
savours hugely of the seamy financial aide of
Judaism. Asa matter of necessity, Mr. Charles
Glenny is a first favourite with a “scrumptious”
part_ like that of Frank Granville, and his love-
making is of an eminently taking variety of
foolishness, and all his ways are ways of plea-
santness, although most of his paths are anything
but peaceful. As the villain with a smile that
never grows cold, and a suavity of manner
worthy an executioner or a highwayman, Mr.
Albert Norman works his way steadily to stage
distinction w r ith wonderful success and as much
“ hissed ” applause as any martyr of ancient days
could consider himself entitled' to. Miss Kate
Bishop is the young, lovely and suffering maiden
whom the world thinks more badly of than at
present it does of Deeming, but who deserves as
much happiness as St. Elizabeth of Hungary, and
gets it in the last act. Miss Edith Blande is a
considerable success as the adventurous and daring
wife of the seductive villain with a French accent
in his sober moments, and Mr. E. B. Russell is a
cheerful solicitor who has become tired of unin-
terrupted degradation and yearns for another
trade-mark of experience. Mr. H. R. Roberts
as Tom Galloway, a boxing Jehu; Miss Vir-
ginia Vivienne las Dolly Blossom ; Miss Flora
Anstead as her “ ma,” Miss Ivy Scott
as Jack, and a lot of other performers in
many other characters helped along the
Stage-carpentry and gave the lime-light some-
thing to shine upon until a late hour, when the
glory broke up, and folk departed to catch the
last tram. The scenery is magnificent; houses
fall to pieces into country landscapes, and all the
various sets reflect etc,, on the artist, Mr. George
Gordon. Mrs. Bernard Beere succeeds Bland
Holt on Saturday next.
* * *
At Sydney Her Majesty’s, that lovely
vision of juvenile delight, “Jack Sheppard,” who 1
appears nightly until further notice in the
seductive part of Miss Billee Barlow, is piling the
Ossa of success on the Pelion of crowded houses,,
and all goes merrily as the clank of the gentle
Newgate Sheppard’s chains. The show unwinds-
itself with a fool-pad-like urbanity, and the
gallery is improving vastly in its rendition of
the chorus, “ Ri-tooral.” When the burlesque
has run another twelvemonth, the “ gods ’’ may be-
able to strike in within three bars behind the
mummers ; at present they come in with the
chorus about three minutes after the next verse-
has been under weigh. Mr. Harry Shine and Mr.
George Walton are brightening up considerably iw
the parts of Blueskin and Jonathan Wild re-
spectively, and Edgeworth Bess is not nearly so-
demonstrative in the alleged skirt-dance in the
second act. Altogether the show is jogging along
nicely, and everybody is as well as can be
expected.
* * * *
Afc Sydney Criterion, on Saturday last was-
revived Sardou’s “Dora” in the familiar dress of
“Diplomacy,” a. play evidently written as a ter
r,ible warning to the young English official to sluin'
the seductive sirens of Monte Carlo, and not tc
wander round with plans and State secrets in
property dispatch-box. Of course, everybody
knows that the play is constructed for acting, and l
is not therefore necessarily logical. The impres-
sionable hero, Captain Beauclero, is anything but
diplomatic in his proceedings,.and would in actual 1
life probably never rise higher than a gilt-laced
attache chosen rather for beauty than for brains.
His folly is. however, another’s- opportunity, and
thus the diplomacy is all displayed by Henry
Beauclerc, whose skill in getting his brother out
of a tangled web is only equalled by the latter’s
talent for enmeshing himself. Indeed, as far as
the present representation is cov” nr ned. “Diplo-


Australian Wines.— For universal good
quality, excellent value and moderate prices,
Junes and Co.’s Boar’s Head Brand of Australian
wines cannot be surpassed. They guarantee all
their wines the pure juice of the grape, and their
prices, varying from Is. to 3s. 6d. per bottle, bring
them within the reach of all classes. They can be
had from all wine merchants and grocers. Be
sure you ask for the BOAR’S HEAD BRAND,
and refuse all others, as this is the only genuine
brand.*
Scliey has temporarily collapsed because of
a “relaxed throat.” Schey’s greatest trouble is,
however, his relaxed tongue.
The annual lawn-tennis tournament terminated
on Saturday, disastrously for N. S. Wales, who only
secured one out of the seven open matches played. The
one match won bv New South Wales, however, was a
“daisy,” it being the All Comers’ Singles, in the final
of which Webb of Sydney defeated Green of Melbourne.
Ayer’s Pills are always ready for use. They are
sugar-coated, easy to take, and sure to bring relief
and cure. They are effectual in all diseases
caused by disorders of the stomach and digestive
organs.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROUGHES & WATTS
(LIMITED),
BILLIAKB TA BLE lIAMfUTI BEKS.
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and Indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND.
Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips, See., Sic.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time. ,
Address:—
S Sotid. Street, Sydney.
JACK THE RIPPER?—The best and only
photo, of DEEMING, taken since his arrest,
is to be obtained from 11. King, Photographer,
Georce-street. Svdnev.
macy ” becomes essentially a noun masculine. The
male caste is a very strong one, and Messrs. Tither-
adge, Lyndal, and Lawrence thoroughly earned the
burst of applause which followed their strong scene
in the second act—the pathetic scene in which the
girl-wife of an hour is branded as adventuress,
traitress, and thief, and is compelled to boar the
stigma of the blame which should attach to the
beautiful and baneful Oomtesse Zicka—a genuine
adventuress with a plus against her brain and a
minus against her heart. Suitably clad in raiment
0 f shimmering satin she glides majestic through
the piece, doing all the mischief she can compass,
and making a bold attempt to revolutionise the
history of Europe within two hours. Inspired by
.a member of the Russian police, Baron Stein,
inspired also by her love for Captain Beauelere,
Zicka steals a tracing of the defences of Con-
stantinople, and manages to put all the opprobrium
upon the poor little English girl, who doesn’t
know enough to come in out of the diplomatic
rain ’
Mr. Titheradge as Henry Beauelere was
an image of delight to Saturday night’s audience,
as they watched the final triumph of diplomacy
over intrigue, and his quiet dry humour as he
“ trapped his mouse ” iu the form of the scared
but unrepentant Zicka was a lovely sight to
contemplate. Mr. Lyndal puts quite unexpected
force into the character of Captain Beauelere, who
is, after all, only a well-groomed, uninterest-
ing young man to whom any “ right-
thinking person ” would properly grudge the
charming and forgiving Dora, who, in the person
of Mrs. Molyneux, is as pretty as a picture
and as graceful as an antelope, and who, moreover,
certainly thoroughly deserves to triumph over her
rival, albeit in her tragic moments she is wanting
slightly in dramatic backbone. The Russian
police-agent, Baron Stein, who wanders about
entrapping women of fashion as paid spies, is ex-
pounded with dry irony by Mr. Boucicault, whose
make-up as an elderly gentleman
is almost one of the most com-
plete disguises he ever assumed ;
and Mr. Lawrence has seldom
done better than with his digni-
fied Count Orloff, that other
victim of Zicka’s treachery. Miss
Watt-Tanner, in her Marquise,
with her foreign accent, her allu-
sions to the mythical Don Alva,
and her devotional thankfulness
when her daughter wins that
pearl of great price (a husband)
gives a capital character sketch.
Miss Florence Seymour struggles
bravely with the repellant part
of the Countess Zicka, and makes
up for some lack of artistic
power in strength of artistic
costume. Miss Temple’s Lady
Henry is not quite fair to that
sparkling little “ Ambassadress ” ;
more chic and less monotony of
manner would be refreshing amid
so many harrowing scenes. Mr.
H. Hodson, Mr. George Hill, and
others, ably help out the piece in
several minor characters. “Diplo-
macy ” is capitally mounted, and
its programme is brimful of poetic
quotations hence it ought to
have a decently long season.
& * *
The Rickards’ Company at
the Garrick, Dan Tracey’s at the
School of Arts, the Hiscocks
Minstrels at the Gaiety, the
Cyclorama at the Battle of
Gettysburg, the Aquariums at
Bondi and Coogee, and the
Sunday concerts throughout the
length and breadth of Sydney, all
continue to take money at the
entrance-door.
The fates fight against George Musgrove,
for the time being, and the new Gaiety Burlesque
season, at Melbourne Opera House, made a sick
start on Saturday. Marion Hood had broken
down in one of her ankles, or something, an
accident which not only left the company without
a good female voice to call its own, but necessi-
tated a change of parts amongst some of the
weaker vessels. Probably this misfortune was
largely accountable for the absence of fizz and
sparkle from an entertainment which is said to
have effervesced elsewhere. It is inconceivable
that even the Johnnies of dear old England could
find delight in “Faust Up to Date,” as performed
on Saturday. So in the joyful hope of the afore-
said Marion’s return to the rescue The Bulletin
lays aside in the meantime the cold-blooded
remarks inscribed upon its little slate. An im-
printed preliminary notice is subject to alterations
and repairs. Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-ay
No apology is needed for a more than ever
delightful performance of “ Lucia ” at the Prin-
cess’s. The merits of Signora Cuttica and of all
the artists who participated in the musical
triumph of Saturday night were recognised with
greater gusts of enthusiasm than ever made the
Alexandra roof shake. The humorous side of
this delirium lay in the fact that many of the con-
gregation were evidently persuaded that they had
just discovered a new star and satellites, of whose
existence they refused to be convinced until a w ily
astronomer like J. Cassius Williamson had brought
them under notice. In truth, the gifted soprano
seemed to sing the sweeter, and go more con-
vincingly mad for the sake of her improved sur-
roundings, but only in a spectacular sense can the
second coming of the Italians be really more
worthy of admiration than their first appearance
in Donizetti’s opera. The four performances of
“ Lucia ” will terminate this (Thursday) evening,
and on Saturday they start with “La Traviata.”
* »
Jenny Lee fills up the gaps between grand
opera with “ Jo,” an arrangement so grotesquely
original that it should advertise itself, and ensure
good houses for the little woman’s farewells. Any
jaded person in search of a iiew sensation can go
early to the Princess’, without consulting the
advertisements, and wait for the overture to
indicate whether Cuttica or Jenny Lee is on that
night. Miss Jenny will pop up in her immortal
character twice this week, Wednesday and I riday,
and three times next week.
Electric Photo, Co.
MRS. BLAND HOLT.
“ Uncles and Aunts ” has thriven passing
well at Melbourne Bijou, where Mr. Tom Cannam,
in the capacity of a grizzly spectre who walks
abroad under the name of ’Kiah, is nightly
received with the applause due to a new variety
of joke. ’Kiah’s unearthly behaviour harmonises
with his weird, peculiar aspect,- and his tout
ensemble is well worth a visit. There are but
two more opportunities for gloating over ’Kiah,
however, because he will quit his old haunts after
Friday. On Saturday the B. and B. company,
reinforced by Sass and Cecil Ward, will try
“ Gloriana ” for the first time in Australia. This
comedy, adapted from the French by James
Mortimer, is not too naughty, but just naughty
enough, and the management expect it to have a
real good time.
Invigorated by the recollection of a full
house for “Romeo and Juliet ” the night before,
the Alexandra people broke out furiously on
Saturday in a robust entertainment called “ Dead
Beat.” A hasty glance at this five-act panorama
revealed some pleasing symptoms of originality on
the part of its London authors, and the plot seems
to soar above the average level. For one thing,
the persecuted hero is blind a good deal of the
time and has to go around feeling his unhappy
way with a stick. Finally, the green shade is
lifted from this young man’s eyes, and the chief
source of misery blows himself up with dynamite,
thus removing the last barrier that has separated
Lily Dampier from her love. Meanwhile, Dam-
pier maintains a striking position in the fore-
ground and makes matters lively for all concerned.
He is a humorous wrongdoer of a foreign turn of
mind, his main idea being the attachment of im-
portant papers, which he secretes inside the lining
of his hat with ulterior views. Sometimes he
retires to a pub. for a drink, and emerges again in
somebody else’s hat, so that ju t when he purposes
selling the papers at a big stage price they are
absorbing the perspiration of an unknown brow.
Dampier makes a mark in a character that is
quaint and quite refreshing. Athobvood, Miss
Julia Merton, Rolfe, Robert Vernon, and about
sixteen other people are mixed up in “Dead
Beat,” which received a loud and shrill reception
on Saturday.
* *
Widow O’Brien, at the Royal, is finishing
her Australian career with much vigour, and a full
house for Friday night, when Sheridan breathes
his last in the estimable character of Nora’s
mother, is bound to ensue. On Saturday (21st.)
the Bland Holt company, late of Sydney, will
come out almost as good as new, after the lapse
of weary years, in “A Sailor’s Knot.” Bland
Holt is generally regarded as the god of melodrama
in Melbourne, and his many admirers are eager
for the fray.
»* * *
The Melbourne halls are very much in
evidence for the present. Miss Adey Brunell,
attired in sweet Ophelian garb, gave her first
dramatic recital at the Athenaeum on Saturday,
and made a visible impression on a crowded
recherche audience. Miss Brunell’s style is chaste
and natural always—if she never quite touches
the sublime, she certainly never misses her mark
and becomes ridiculous. Anyone who can give
“In the Usual Way” and “Godiva” with such
nice effect as Miss A.B. produces, is entitled to
appear again from time to time. The show,
which lasted a modest two hours, was largely
aided by Benno Scherek, who extracted an occa-
sional scherzo from the inevitable piano.
* *
Max O’Rell is— vide R.'S. Smythe—“ the
Man of the Hour,” at tbe Athenaeum, since
Monday last. The hall doesn’t hold more than a
regiment of individuals at one time, and as there
is probably a small army waiting to sit at the feet
of the much-advertised French gentleman, he will
be pouring forth his modern philosophy for several
nights to come.
«» * »
Cogill Bros, opened a new nigger show at
St. George’s Hall on Saturday and got a large
reception from their old friends. The Gaiety and
Victoria Halls go on much the same as usual.
Rotunda concerts are rising in[the market. Cyclo-
rarnas are quiet, and a series of limelight views,
illustrating the awful career of Mr. Deeming from
the cradle to the grave, are giving pleasure to all
at the Waxworks. Old Newton Griffiths delivers
a lecture on the “cold-blooded butcheries,” &c.,
of the party about to be hung, and this lecture is
not the least appalling event which will be charged
against Deeming when he comes to settle up—
above.
Gaiety Burlesque once more !
Toney girls and dudes galore—
House was crowded to the door
Waiting for the treat in store.
Though the curtain rose at eight.
Rose on “Faustus up to Dale,”
For that treat they had to wait
Till their ardour did abate—
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-ay,
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-rot,
Ta-ra-ra, -&c., &c.
Spite of all the puff and blow
Spent upon this gaudy show,
People found it rather slow,
Void of “snap ” and lacking “go.”
When at last tire curtain fell.
Few remained to shriek and .tell,
Mashers hurried out pell-mell.
Sad at heart, and saying, “ Well,
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-ay,” &c,
Lonnen, put in Leslie’s place,
Scarcely seemed to fill the space ;
Barren's dear, familiar face
Would be missed in any case.
Courtneidge fell extremely flat,
Though he had a lot of “fat,”
So it was no wonder that
On, his chest a damsel sat—
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-ay, &c.
“ Fat ” at times is very thin :
Slowly waned the public grin.
As they watched this gilded sin,
Asking where the fun came in.
Where, O! where was fair Miss Hood ?
Absent, be it understood.
New girls did the best they could,
Not so bad, but not too good-
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-ay, &c.
All at once the show grew smart
(When ’twas nearly “in the cart”)
Lonnen, in a coster part,
Sang a song that reached the heart.
“ Faust,” forsooth, began to pall,
Gloom was coming over all,
Back at last they had to fall
On the good old music-hall,
Ta-ra-ra Boom -dev-ay, &o.
Alice Leamar, vision pert,
Lifting high her leg and skirt,
Came in like a racing “ cert.’'
Butting on the final spurt.
Vanished then the look of pain.
Though the ditty be inane
Boys will flock to hear again,
Alice and her odd refrain—
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-ay,
Ta-ra-ra-Boom-der-rot, &o.
At Poverty Point,
A London critic says of an actress now in Australia,
that she is distinguished by “a connubial adaptability to
circumstances.” We have looked at this remarkable
statement all round, and we give it up.
Rosie Nott, of the new Gaiety Company, is the daughter
of Cicely Nott, a once popular singer and comedienne.
Lohr, returning from Adelaide with Carl Hertz &Co.,
found just time enough for one drink in Melbourne before
catching the Maoriland boat. Ho reported good business
in the Holy City with Musgrove’s variety combination,
the “gate” having closed on six hundred a week.
Berry, the British ex-hangman, proposes to go round
lecturing on “Men I Have Hung.” And now, in our
mind’s eye, we can see Berry opening negotiations with
the much-travelled Smythe for a lecturing tour round the
world, and we can hear Smythe’s shriek of rage when he
gets Berry’s letter, and we can faintly imagine Berry’s
howl of indignation when he gets Smythe’s reply.
The new Gaiety Co. orchestra includes good old La
Feuillade, fiddler for a quarter of a century, Phil. Lang-
dale, Cowen, bassoonist, Weston, senior, first violin, Ess,
clarionet—a tip-top local contingent. The band numbers
22, all told.
George Rignold says that, in London lately, he intro-
duced an Adelaide (S.A.) absentee to Annesley Cook, the
singer. “You ought to come to Australia,” said the
Adelaide man, “ you’d make your fortune, Mr. Cook. By
the way, what are you singing in now?” “ Stabat Hater.”
“ H’m ; that would not do in Australia, Mr. Cook: they’re
simply overrun with comic opera.”
It was noticed that La Gighalton kissed J. C. Williamson
with less relish than she hugged Billy Elton with.
The now historic sale of Anson’s library in Sydney is
reminiscent of the great sale by Giltgore, the draper, of a
portentous quantity of stuff that came out of an imaginary
wreck. He kept the shop shutters up, a mysterious
attraction of itself, and inside you found the gas glaring
on the salvage, hung about with seaweed.
J. D. Marsh, who staged-raanaged the recent amateur
performance, at Sydney Garrick, in aid of the funds of
the 'Women’s College, is G. V. Brooke’s prompter of the
early sixties.
Apropos of young Macready, the writer saw him, when
doing very minor business under Barry Sullivan (who gave
it him out of charity) come behind the scenes as nude as
an artist’s model. A handy blanket and a stalwart super,
assisted at poor Mac. u final exit.
A Sydney young lady “star” writes to The Bulletin
to explain the reason which prompted her action described
in a last week’s par anent the contemptuous reception of
a floral “ fling-down ” from “ the gods.” Thus the fay:
“ I received a message warning me that a spray would be
thrown from the gallery containing cayenne-pepper, and,
consequently,” &c., &c.
Mrs. Bernard Beere, who spoke for herself at her fare-
well, rather gave away the management by “looking
forward to returning to Melbourne, when she hoped to
present her plays with more completeness,” &c., &c. The
advertisements had solemnly affirmed that Mrs. 8.8. was
making her absolutely last appearances.
Dear Bulletin, —A worthy R.C. prelate left us last
week, after accumulating Peter’s Pence for many years
in our midst. On his departure we gave him a banquet -
slabs of beef, the übiquitous turkey, Irish wlvsky and
doubtful fizz. The captain of our local army (four privates
and three officers) occupied the chair, having previously
(by right of his friendship with the prelate) advertised
his “store-goods” on the back of the emblazoned invita-
tion cards. During the conviviality—while we were
waiting the response of some modest man to a toast —
the impatient crowd roared to a wealthy squatter to give
us “Bill Adams.” Hereupon the histrionically-untutored
chairman (weight, 18st.) slowly and ponderously rose,
and solemnly called on Mr. William Adams to respond
to (the waiting toast. What price Snazelle?— Manaro
Shepherd.
Marie Halton’s farewell hen. at Melbourne Princess’s
was not a densely-packed occasion by any means. Her
“ Dorothy ” performance knocked a hole in her prestige,
anyway, and perhaps “ La Cigale ” is too serious an opera
for a city that is bracing up its nerves for fresh taxation.
But when manager Williamson, after returning thanks on
Marie’s behalf, suggested that it would be many a long
day before the audience saw another “Grasshopper” of
her calibre, he evidently hit public opinion in the bull's-
eye.
Dear Bulletin,- Comedian Anson “benefits ” in Sydney
and Melbourne to the tune of £1000; while Maggie
Oliver, but a few brief years back a pet of the public,
now bankrupt in pocket and health, languishes in a
hospital without a friend to aid her. Rut, then, she is
not sufficiently English, and that-makes all the difference.
—A Poor Plaver.
When Sheridan sang “ Ta-ra-ra-Boom-de-ay ” ere the
news arrived from London that it was great, it was
received with indifference, but now that the London
imprimatur has been received, it sets the house in a roar.
English, you know, even if the actor sings ri-fol-dc-rol
in the middle of “ Fedora.”
Walter SilbOn got from Government £350 tor the
damage sustained by him in the N.S.W. train accident.
George Rignold and Co., we hear, are now doing first-
rate business in Adelaide. Judging by present appear-
ances, the boom seems likely to last till the end of the
season, after which the company will move to Melbourne
Princess’
The attraction of Bourke-street, during last week, was
in the Hosie window, with the wedding-cake of James
Ruhira and Emilia Guidotti. It was sft. high, proudly
manufactured by the Ruhira employes, and no wedding-
cake ever shown in Melbourne came near its magni-
ficence.
The late Mr. Barcroft H. Boake was the
eldest son of the well-known Sydney photographer,
who, in the terrible affliction which has befallen
him, will have the sympathy of all.
In Memoriam—Barcroft Henry Boake.
Last Thursday appeared in Thk Bulletin soma
verses entitled “A Wayside Queen.” r ihe poem
in question was one only of many contributed by
Barcroft Henry Boake to the columns of this
paper; but “A Wayside Queen” is specially
interesting, from the fact that the day after its
appearance, the body of the gifted young author
was found by a wood-cutter hanging to a tree by
the lash of a stock-whip, at Folly Point, Long
Bay, North Shore —he had committed suicide .
Mr. Boake was by profession a surveyor; his age
was five-and-twenty. For a long period he had
been engaged in the service of Mr. Lipscomb,
district surveyor of Wagga, and his poems smell
of the eucalypts and breathe the fresh breath of
the bush. When his work in the south-west ended,
he came to seek some steady employment in Sydney
—his quest was a fruitless one. Quiet, reticent,
gentle-mannered almost to a fault, his ill-success
appears to have worried him unduly, and is sup-
posed to have induced insomnia—that torch-bearer
to the tomb for the man of too sensitive nerves.
Albeit, he disappeared from his home on the 2nd
of the current month —his body was found eleven
days after in a lonely copse that overlooked one
of the reaches of Sydney Harbour. Only the other
day, the first of modern French story-tellers, the
ablest pupil of the great Flaubert, the brilliant
and versatile Guy de Maupassant, successful man
of letters, strove to take his life, although his foot
had touched the topmost pinnacle of literary and
artistic triumph. Some century or so ago, the
gifted boy, Chatterton, poisoned himself in a
garret! Here are the antipodes ! The men who
glide hastily away to the Never IS ever Land do
so from different motives, and in different modes.
Some complete nearly the whole tramp of life with
heart unflinching, facing the drought and the heat
and the burden of the day with never so much as
a sigh. Mile upon mile the plodder covers till the
terrible life-weariness comes on him, perhaps only
at the final stage, and then he throws down his
“ swag” for ever, and makes a pillow of his burden
for a final rest. Others again attempt hardly a
day’s march of the life-journey. The plain
stretches out barren and sere before them, the
shimmering lakes appear as mirage, and the gold
glitters but as withered yellow grass beneath the
burning rays of a torrid sun—the prospect is
nothing but thankless labour and dreariness, so
with a sigh they surrender, and enjoy a surcease
of sorrow almost before tasting of its bitterness.
So was it with Barcroft Boake ! All who knew
him admired him as much for the innate gentle-
ness of his nature as for the talents which might
have one day blossomed into genius and conducted
their possessor to fame and fortune. In the
Christmas number of this paper appeared one of
the poor lad’s poems, which reads weirdly pro-
phetic in the light of the writers fate. It is
entitled
WHERE THE DEAD MEN LIE.
Out on the wastes of the “Never, Never, ’
That’s where the dead men lie,
There where the heat-waves dance for ever,
That’s where the dead men lie ;
That’s where the earth’s lov’d sons are keeping
Endless tryst—not the west wind sweeping
Feverish pinions, can wake their sleeping—
Out where the dead men lie.
Where brown Summer and Death have mated,
That’s where the dead men lie,
Loving with fiery lust unsated.
That’s where the dead men lie;
Out where the grinning skulls bleach while ly.
Under the saltbush sparkling brightly,
Out where the wild dogs chorus nightly,
That’s where the dead men lie.
Deep in the yellow, flowing river,
That’s where the dead men lie,
Under its banks where the shadows quiver.
That’s where the dead men lie;
While the platypus twists and doubles,
Leaving a train of tiny bubbles ;
Rid at last of their earthly troubles,
That’s where the dead men lie.
East and backward pale faces turning,
That’s how the dead men lie ;
Gaunt arms stretched with a voiceless yearning,
That’s how the dead men lie.
Oft in the fragrant hush of nooning.
Hearing again their mother’s crooning,
Wrapt for aye in a dreamful swooning,
That’s how the dead men lie.
Nought but the hand of night can free them *
That’s when the dead men fly ;
Only the frightened cattle see them —
See the dead men go by ;
Cloven hoofs beating out one measure,
Ridding the stockman know no leisure,
That’s where the dead men take their pleasure,
That’s when the dead men fly.
Ask too, the never-sleeping drover,
He sees the dead pass by,
Hearing them call to their friends—the plover,
Hearing the dead men cry.
Seeing their faces stealing, stealing,
Hearing their laughter wealing, pealing,
Watching their grey forms wheeling, wheeling
Round where the cattle lie.
Strangled by thirst and fierce privation.
That’s how the dead men die
Out on the farthest-stretching station,
That’s how the dead men die ;
Hardfaced greybeards, youngsters callow,
Some mounds cared for, others fallow,
Some deep down, yet others shallow,
Some having but the sky.


Have you tried Walsh’s “draft lager beer?”
New American Bar, Sydney Theatre Royal Hotel.
FDFD
MAG-IC LAIXTTERKTS.
IWun, Bauds U«tor s, (S hS \nd Zt STuP f °[, ei^ r oil - iha dLo s ™
Hydrogen and Oxygen Gas in Steel C>] ndeS holdiai XUur Saturators, etc/ Aso Comp re S ea
In MAGIC LANTERN SLIDES Plain •„ fa ! , g 6to 60 feec >. at * very small cost, and which saves the use of ba^s
by the arrival of every mail, and comprising every known subject.'' '‘ U< ’ a lU ° St ,naprnifice,lt Stock—about D),COO, and to which \vc are continually adding.
Lanterns' aid * n,St ' TT ** T " temln,g purcliase > rs should call and inspect our Stock before purchasing elsewhere.
Oa- Celebrated OFTiMus L^ nt2rn Entertainments given by experienced Operators.
sterns, with 3 d OZ Slides, 4s
F KOST & ft HIP HAM,
I ‘ STE,mSm ° *74 & 587 George Street, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL POINTS
Isaacs, member for Bogong, promises to
be one of the notable talkers of the new Vie.
Assembly.
A North Queensland newspaper calls Post-
master-General Gnmack “the Jonah of the
Coalition (Jovernment. ”
In the Northern Territory, S.A., the only
chance now left to any unemployed white man is
to seek work from a Chinese boss !
Minister Best (Vic.) will have to live down
in the minds of the workers his pre-election remark
that he would ‘‘exterminate agitators like
rabbits.”
South Australia’s financial position briefly
stated Total loan liability, .£20,509,000; interest
payable thereon, .£773,007 ; revenue from public
works, .£710,339.
Cause and effect. The Victorian Govern-
ment proposes to amend the laws relating to
medical practitioners; likewise those relating to
general cemeteries.
1 he latest idea in Adelaide political circles
,is to run Playford for Speaker, in place of Coles,
.who is anxious to resign. Kingston then takes
the Premiership, the goal of his ambition.
Trenwith, M.L.A. (V.) has been re-elected
official mouthpiece of the Victorian Labour-party,
which has tentatively decided to give the Shiels
Government a general support.
A recently defeated candidate for N.Q.
Divisional Board honours was beaten by the votes
of three Jaypees, five Chinese and one Kanaka.
Quite a family cabal against him.
The idea of an Absentee Tax is revived in
Victoria, to touch the old cock-sohnappers of the
Royal Colonial Institute, who drop off every now
and again, like a dead eye out of a crayfish.
John Gavan Duffy trapezed from the Vic-
torian Attorney-Generalship towards the Speaker-
ship, andbnissed his hold in mid-air. That is to
say, he left .£l2OO to grasp ,£2030, and lost th j
£l2OO.
What is the significance of Governor Nor-
man’s trip from Carpentaria to the Pacific ? Is it
to be a repetition of the Kintore affair : a black-
labour clincher for Griffo-Kanakilwraith and Co.,
or what ?
A swarm of cheap Italians is camped round,
awaiting the opening of Melbourne sewage works.
The sins of the Northern province are visited 011
her sisters. The federation of trouble is already
accomplished.
The Worker (Brisbane, Q.) suggests pre-
cautionary that the Griffith Government shoul 1
appoint as Government blackbirding agents mar-
ried men only, and that it should send “their
wives with them !”
Isaacs’ speech on the Address, in the
Victorian Assembly, is universally admitted the
best effort of the kind within recollection. Isaac;
was clerk at the Prothonotary’s before he vaulted
to the Bar, and he replaced testy, good-hearted
I* Ire brace as Banco Court clerk.
Premier Playford (S.A.) (who seeks to
swamp the Northern Territory with Indian coolies
who will work for £3 a year and rice rations), un-
consciously did Australia a great service by
blurting out at Townsville (Q.) that the Kanakas
m Queensland are “ practically slaves.”
Deakin, in the Victorian Assembly, takes
Higinbotham’s time-honoured seat, in the far-away
Opposition corner. This was after Higinbotham
split with M‘Culloch, and begun declaiming
against the British connection, the “foreign
power,” and all that. Go thou, and do likewise
Deakin.
The Bulletin isn’t greatly pleased to see
Bent in the Victorian Speaker’s chair. Thomas
has one of the worst tempers in the world is
utterly devoid of aitches, and has never been con-
spicuous in politics as an exponent of gentlemanly
feeling. Nevertheless, he has shown himself a
good committee-chairman.
Mcllwraith is the managing director of the
Queensland Cabinet, Griffith its editor; Wilson
and Byrnes act as special correspondents “in
another place,” apd TJnmack, whose forte is
figures, attends to. the business. Sugar-.planter
Gpwley takes the Governor out airing, while To?er
worries Labour and barks at the socialist moon
Good dog Tozer!
The Victorian Opposition, could not get
?jd of Duncan Gillies as leader. Like Railway
Commissioner Speight, he was “immovable”
NVhen tho intriguers discovered that fact thev
made the best of the situation. Sir Henry
Wrixon, who was to have himself got the post
had matters gone niore favourably, moved the
re-election of Gillies; “National Ass.” Harper
seconded ; and Jingo B. Patterson supported it in
Jus newest vein of boastful grovel.
Curious that the Age, in commenting on
the. fact that the Victorian irrigation trusts are
unable to meet their liabilities of interest, and run
their affairs “ on commercial principles,” genially
disposes of the matter thus : “If Government
lias made an error in being a good distance ahead
of national requirements the fault was a generous
one, and time must infallibly correct it ” And
yet this is exactly what Speight, Ford and Green®
submit in extenuation of their railway deficiencies !
Two-thirds of Britain’s food-supply now
comes from abroad, and the quantity is increasing
every year. The Foreign-trade party quotes this
as an evidence of the increased purchasing power
of the country. Another way of putting it is that
only one-third of Britain’s food is grown in the
country, and the quantity is diminishing annually,
because production is steadily going to perdition,
and has been going there ever since Freetrade
began. It all depends on which way you look
at it.
The score and odd members of the Vic-
torian Parliament styling themselves “ the
country party” already betray signs of spon-
taneous fulmination. Chairman Jock M‘lntyreis
a Ministerial corner man, Secretary J. L. Dow,
the P.P. whitewashee, is a direct Oppositionist,
and the executive committee of the “party” is
composed of the guerillas who sit on the corner-
benches on both sides of the House. The future
spook of Hans Breitmann is waiting round the
corner.
John Murray, M.L.A., has brought under
the notice of the \ ictorian Parliament two
Pentridge eases as furnishing a mutual contrast.
One was that of a prisoner sentenced to and still
“doing” 18 years’ imprisonment for “sacrilege”;
the other that of a man convicted of wifc-nrirclcr,
SCENE, COUNTRY STORE.
STORE-KEEPER' S DAU GHTER (to old lady customer): “You ain’t so rich as my pa, Mrs. Porter;
but I expect my pa wouldn't be as rich as he is if he was to pay everybody what
he owes them."
Collapse of old man.
condemned to death, subsequently let off with
penal servitude for life,” and now “eniovino- his
liberty amongst his friends in England,” having
been liberated through family influence.” The
old story.
Victorian National Association formed
itself into a “Loyalist Election Committee” to
oppose ex-1 ostmaster-General Duffy in his candi-
dature for the Victorian Speakership. Their
principal objection was that, as Duffy was a Home
Kuler, lus election would be prejudicial to the
prospects of the Conservative party in England at
the next election f Picture Salisbury and Glad-
stone waiting outside the Agent-General’s office
to learn the result, and Gladstone swooning on
hearing that Bent was elected !
A, few weeks ago it was cabled that “the
works of the Norway Steel Company, at Boston
(U.S.) have been closed owing to the taxation on
raw material used m the production of steel ”
1 Ins news came, not from America, but from the
usual I reetrade sources in London, and was the
subject of a great wild whoop in the Australian
shoddy press. It now transpires, according to
news per Insco steamer, that not one, but several
iron and steel works contemplated closing when
the mail left, not owing to “taxation of raw
material, which is bosh, the raw material being
locally supplied, but owing to over-production and
a consequent glut in the market. Therefore,
pyclney 1). 1. and the Evening News are requested
in common honesty, to withdraw their frenzied
leaders, and explain how matters really stand
1 homas Bent is the new Speaker of
the Victorian Assembly. There were three
candidates Duffy, Wrixon, and Bent, and Bent
got in because, being the most objectionable of the
three, his name was put last. Ifirst of all Duffy
was put up, and lost because the friends of
VVrixon and Bent voted against him. Then
Wrixon went to the poll, and Bent’s friends voted
against him because they wanted Bent to get in,
and Duffy’s friends voted against him because
they were mad at him for spoiling Duffy’s
chances, so he was also rejected. Then there was
only one candidate left, and Bent got in without
t any division at all—to the disgust of nearly every-
body.
The Ananias of the Cairns (Q.) Post
announces that “a petition in favour of the ex-
tension of Polynesian immigration has been
unanimously signed by the working-men of
Townsville.” “ Unanimously ”is good, consider-
ing the solid white labour vote which was cast at
Townsville a very few months ago. There is a
great sameness about petitions that are got up by
the moneyed classes. The red-nosed canvasser is
paid by results, and lie puts down signatures him-
self in the most reckless manner. The petitions
are inspected by the local bosses, and the in-
dividual who refuses to sign is very apt to be
‘’sacked.” Women, infants, dead men, loafers,
and people who never lived, all figure in the lists!
Ihe canvassers all sign their own petitions and
each others petitions, and in a town of GOO in
Habitants, you can always get 1000 signatures in
favour of any movement, even though it wouldn’t
tmcl two genuine supporters at the ballot box.
THE BANANALANDER’S TOAST.
I>on nanie me ’ lmte ’ a Queenslander, Ido not own the
n< gai>ie^' and ‘bgriff commenced their little
And brought the grand young province low with their
Kanaka shame.
The Welshman (as a Weigher will) gave taffy, tommyrot
And he was ably backed up by the apoplectic Scot;
1 pot* 18 1>a ’ Vne( t 0 s - vn( hcates ; the whites have gone to
I’m not an over-pious cove, yet white, at anyrate.
And so I feel it rough my birth to thus repudiate.
-Hut yet I 11 swear I ne’er was horn in any Nigger State.
Damn all the mangy piebalds in the Ministerial pack !
Tle S °° d f °* and they ihay he good for
But no good for white men who have not a blend
D ° n sic t k lk l ° 1116 ° f " sngar ’” nlate > the old S a ff makes me
I . t ’ s , b .® e ' l the GGutest lump I’ve seen of “ taffy on a stick,”
* n “|. .v°u call me Queenslander,” again, by gum ! I’ll
w°hif, n a ran *f \°i t,le planters’ apothegm,
V hen Sam tnlkeii white I knew he loved the pig-
tailed sons of Shein. 1 °
Eb ’ D W T M ? ” M ‘" e S 111,11 ’ here ’ s “D.S.G. and Doubly-
Dirso.
It is now 3i years since the writs in the
Queensland Investment eases were issued, and siv
months since the hearing of the cases betrar.
I lie talcing of evidence is only completed and thd
final issue will probably occur when either tlm
plaintiffs or defendants, or both, are dead-broke
Dear Bulletin, —Touching one or two
items that have appeared in your paper lately ■
1) the song used by W. A. natives at their corio-
borrees was set to music some years ago by Bislmr!
Salvado, of New Norcia Mission, and produced
by him (on the harmonium) before a la™,
audience, when visiting Rome some time bark.
ln 1871 saw a swallow killed by a cricket*
ball thrown by a boy in the cricket-field. (*\
Some People are too soft for a dry season anyhow-
laupert Clarke was barely out of sight of (
aid ton before he decided to return, so that he
hardly had much time to drink a great deal of
bad water. A parallel case was that of a Sonth
Australian who_ left both Adelaide and Perth
with great flourish of trumpets, for the purpose
of visiting and reporting on the Murchison gold
fields for his numerous friends in S.A. He heard'
there was a thirty-mile dry stage, and that turned!
him sick—he's the man who would ride up to %
pub. very hot, and drink a pint of soda and lime-
juice, and wash his head in whisky-and-water
but those luxuries don't grow on the road he tool-
—l’ve been there. —Minx.
The W.A. hangman had a hard fio-ht
recently with four niggers whom he was trying to■
scrag officially in a lonesome place “up North ”
There was no gallows for one tiling, no qualified!
assistant, no trap-door, and none of the eon
venienees of a respectable, civilised hanging. The
performance had to bo done out in trie open
beneath a spreading tree, and the four were
placed on a dray, while GO or 70 other niggers
looked on in excited anticipation. Then the noose
was fixed round each man’s neck and hitched
on to a strong branch overhead, and the order
was given to move the dray away and let the law
take its course. Just here the trouble began. By
some unaccountable oversight the prisoners’ arms
had not been tied, and suddenly awaking to a
knowledge of the situation the four gave a horrible
yell and each grabbed the rope overhead with one
hand and field on like grim death to the dray with
the other. The horse, as it happened, was a very
old and feeble animal, and with the four aborigines
clutching the cart it couldn’t make any progress
It got an inch or two forward every now aiid°then
but it was always dragged back again, and despite
the most vigorous and vociferous walloping the
hanging didn’t progress worth a cent. Then the
hangman and his minion put their shoulders to
the wheel and shoved like the demons they were
and with a despairing yell from the four
the vehicle went away. One of the
party hung peacefully at the end of his
rope. Another hung and kicked furiously
ihe remaining two seized their ropes and pro-
ceeded to shin up them into the tree, and had to
be hauled down again. One of them, being hauled
down, gave up the struggle and died without
further argument, but the other woke up again
just when everybody began to think he was dead
and started to claw his way up the rope a second
time. Then he apparently thought better of it
and, letting go, became down with a thud, and
all was over. The aboriginal audience was much
amused, but the hangman went home sick, and
has never been the same executioner since.
Remarkable Incident.
A LECTURER DISCOVERS HIS DANGER AND LOSES
HIS LIFE—A TERRIBLE WARNING TO OTHERS.
Ii is a scent; in the lecture-room of a medical
college m New Orleans. The professor is
lecturing before an intelligent class of medical
students. He is describing the human body, its
defects, and the danger by which it is surrounded.
In order to illustrate it he has fluids from the
human body, which he is subjecting to chemical
tests.
Gentlemen, ’• he said, “Ihave described to
you the appearance of the human fluid in a
diseased state; I will now show you how the
same fluid appears in a healthy state,” and lie
subjected his own to the test. As he held it up to
the light for a moment, his hand trembled, he
caught his breath, he paled, and exclaimed.
Gentlemen, I have just made a most horrible
discovery; I myself have Bright’s disease of the
kidneys.
In less than one year he was dead.
The above dramatic and strictly true incident
shows the terrible danger and mysterious nature
of this modern disease, which may well be called
the demon of the present century. It steals into
the system like a thief, manifests its presence by
the commonest symptoms and fastens itself upon
the system before the victim is aware. It is
nearly as hereditary as consumption, quite as
common and fully as fatal. Entire families, in-
heriting it from their ancestors, have died, yet
none of the number knew or realised the
mysterious power which was removing them.
Hundreds of people die daily by what is called
heart disease, apoplexy, paralysis, spinal com-
plaint, rheumatism, pneumonia, and other com-
mon diseases, when in reality it is Bright’s disease
of the kidneys. ’These are solemn facts, but all
the more serious because of their solemnity:
r l here has never been but one remedy known for
the (*ure of Bright s disease, or even for its relief,
and that remedy has become the most popular of
any preparation known (o the world. It is
\\ arner s Safe Cure. It has taken men, and
women, too, who were in the lowest stages and
restored them to perfect health and strength. It
will invariably check the first stages of this
terrible disease, if taken in time. It is endorsed
by physicians, approved by scientists, and used by
the best people in the land. It is a scientific
preparation and owes its popularity wholly to its
power. It can be procured of any reliable dealer,
but great care should be exercised to secure the
genuine and not permit any unscrupulous dealer
to sell anything in its place.


“Thousands squander in little amounts which
if invested in land would lead to a certain fortune. ’
Five Pounds payable Five Shillings down, and :
Five Shillings Monthly, without interest, will
purchase an Allotment in the
JERSEY ESTATE,
ROOTY HILL
(adjoining the residences of the lion. W. Lamb,,
M.L.C., Sydney Burdekin, M. I*., Dr. Handle).
Only 25 Miles from Sydney, on the double line of
Railway to Penrith, and the Suburban system.
Title, Torrens Act; Register Book, 1037; Folio,
235 ; Deposited Plan, 2(312.
Any intending Buyer can write to the Registrar
General of N. S. Wales to verify our statement
that we can give a Clear Title to this Splendid
Estate, and that our business is conducted strictly
on the Square. Country friends can rely on
Faithful Selection.
Plans from
E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
301 Pitt Street, Sydney.
I®' RENDLE,
BRISBANE.
Registered
Surgeon and Apothecary.
Opposite Tost Office,
Advice by Letter if desired.
rgp” Medicines sent to any part of the Colony.
Tbo Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Coleinane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
DRINK ONLY
LEFEBVRE & SONS’ PRI7.F.
Australian Wines equal to
best French and Spanish vintages. Sold at Australian
vineyard quotations. Offices and Stores. 529 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE, Vie.
What People Say.
S. C. REILLY, ESQ., MARRICKYILLE,
N.S.W., . .
writes : “Garner’s Avenue, Marrickville, N.S. v\ .
I can with confidence bear testimony to the
wonderful efficacy of Clements ionic. Eoi years
I have been periodically attacked, and a great
sufferer from neuralgia and general debility, and
anyone who has ever been afflicted with such
nervous misery can form an idea of what 1
suffered. I had also chronic indigestion, general
languid feelings and an utter dislike to exert my-
self The 'neuralgia was so severe that 1 have
paced the hall all night and the agony was so
excruciating that I was almost out of my mind.
I tried all so-called remedies, also galvanic treat-
ment, which did no good. At last a friend recom-
mended Clements Tonic, and I was so miserable
and disheartened that I purchased a small bottle
and aft<n- the second dose felt great relief. 1 con-
tinned its use and am thankful to say that after
twenty-four hours the pain had disappeared, and
I was free from the nervous terror. 1 continued
Clements Tonic and have taken ferny bottles ; all
my languor is gone, I am free from indigestion, i
can do a day’s work with any man, and eat like a
horse - and'have great pleasure in recommending
Clements Tonic to any one suffering from nervous
complaints. —Yours truly, S. C. Rkilia.
When people right at the home of Clements
Tonic praise the remedv as so many do, it proves
the value of it to everybody, even in spite of tin
old saying, “No man is a prophet in Ins owr
country.”
WILLIAM FLEMIN G,
IMPORTER AND INDENT MERCHANT
Latest Designs in
Tray Buggies* Jump-seat Buggies,
PHiETONS, CARRIAGES.
BUCKBOABBS,
WAGGONS, CARTS, HARNESS, ETC.,
Send for Catalogue and Prices.
22 k 24 CLARENCE STREET.
SYDNEY.
Personal Items.
Ex-Judge Dowling (N.S. VV.) is engaged in
writing Ids reminiscences.
Deeming has been dabbling in verse. He
expects to get the swing presently.
A. S. Cowley, the Kanakophile Minister
for Lands (Q.), was formerly a N.S.W. Sunday-
school teacher.
Price Fletcher, “ Bush Naturalist ” of the
Queenslander, is so hopelessly ill that his decease
is daily expected.
The Bulletin hears, on what should be
most excellent authority, that it is unlikely Chief
Justice Lilley will re-onter politics.
The Chirnsides have just traded off 8500
a cres of Wend bee land to Melbourne Board of
Works at A'l7 10s. per acre, or <£150,000.
Melbourne Standard speaks of the
American statesman as “lien.” Harrison, it
never dared to bo half so familiar with Gillies.
The days of Irishmen as Speakers of the
Victorian Assembly would appear to have passed
away. Bent’s defeat of J. G. Duffy has broken
the charm.
In its report of the “dossers’ meeting ”
that boo-hooed “ General ” Booth, London Stan-
dard described the “General’s” face as being
“ white with fear.”
The latest about Emin Pasha states that
the explorer has gone stone blind, and is being led
through Equatorial Africa by a leedle dorg, or the
inevitable “faithful black.”
In ’B4, Gladstone acquired a substantial
interest in a big sheep-run in Western Victoria,
but sold out ere becoming fully aware of the valu-
able purchase he had made.
“A young French widow of dazzling beauty
and countless wealth ” lias sent “ General” Booth
a Leap Year proposal. The holy man is still
wrestling with the temptation.
G. R. Dibbs (N.S.W.) is the only Aus-
tralian Premier who has been in gaol. Dibbs
loves light. He has, at various times, taken 13
law appeals before the Privy Council.
Pat. Connelly, original holder of the
Connelly-Robinson claim, Murchison goldfield
(W. A.), died April 19. He had made his pile and
had just made up his mind to visit Europe,
When Deeming was told that Dr. Shields,
medical expert for the Crown at the trial, was
amongst the doctors agitating to get his brain,
that popular performer grinned and chuckled :
“ He needs it.”
Deeraing’s Windsor (Melb.) landlord adver-
tises that he “ has not sold the hearthstone, as it is
his intention to exhibit the same.” This adver-
tisement should have been in the “amusements”
'tolurnu, but wasn’t.
A Melbourne paper confounds Supple with
Semple. Andrew Semple was a Scotch journalist,
living in Eitzroy, and furnished the Argus with
two or three leaders a week, marked by accuracy,
finish, and a touch of distinction.
By the appointment of ex-Parliamentary
Draughtsman Oliver to the presidency of the
N.S.W. Land Court, a Sydney daily loses one
of its favourite leader-writers. Oliver’s official
salary, however, leaps at one bound from <£looo
to £2OOO a year.
The Sydney dailies’ London cable corres-
pondents are obviously getting ready to ridicule
Dibbs from London. Should a murder take place
during G.R.D.’s stay in the Big Smoke he will be
duly identified by the cableman as “Jack the
Ripper.”
Octogenarian Lord Bramwell’s death is
cabled. The most noteworthy thing he did of
late was writing a pamphlet on “ Drink,” opposing
the teetotallers, and urging that they never had
produced one great man. There was depth in it,
too, when he traced drinking customs to a lack of
true social feeling among the community.
Gladstone attended publisher John Mur-
ray’s funeral the other day. In his Murray-pub-
lished “Church and State,” which Macaulay
scarified, Gladstone insisted that only members of
the Church of England should have any share in
the Government. Macaulay said —“ The world
will carry even Mr. Gladstone round, in spite of
himself.”
A peculiar coincidence occurred in Geelong
recently, when Mr. Higgins, the well-known local
lawyer, and his sister died on the same evening
Within a few minutes of each other, both victims
to brain-softening, and both suddenly. The mes-
senger taking the news of the sister’s death arrived
as the brother was breathing his last, behaving
been taken ill only half-an-hour earlier.
The Duchess of Teck is as shaky in her
English as the rest of the Royal Fami’y. In a
recent letter to somebody she stated that her
daughter May had put on a certain bracelet “ to
show it to the Prince and Princess of Wales, where
she is still staying.” They are all alike. The
Queen loses herself in a maze of pronouns, and
Albert Edward advises his ailing friends to ‘ lay
up.”
The late Earl of Huntingdon, father of Sir
Salmon Wilson’s prospective son-in-law, was not
only poor. He was not a favourite at Court be-
cause of the allegation that it was he who led
Albert Edward into that ancient scrape with the
Irish girl known as “Mrs. Albert.” Wales, at
the time, was quite as old and experienced as
Huntingdon, but the poor Earl got blamed tor
it all.
The cabled note about plagiarism, in the
British Congregational Union, makes one think
of a Melbourne case. In the rancours of the
Presbyterian Assembly, two parsons exchanged
dagger-thrusts. The wife of one was a brilliant
phonographess, and took down verbatim a prigged
sermon by the other, with the strangely-appro-
priate title of “ Mutual Help,” and then there was
a ruction.
Spurgeon’s complaint about the preacher
who says “ he that hath yaws to yaw let him yaw
will remind a good many Dunedin (M.L.) people ot
a poor dear bishop who used to hang out down
there —whether he’s there still we don t know. He
had a carefully acquired lisp, and he always
tackled the first syllable of a word in a low tone
and the second one in a shriek. to hear him
preach about the “daught- aws of Jud- AW • was a
fearsome experience.
Mrs. Humphrey Ward’s latest work—
“ David Grieve"—is full of reminders of “David
Copperfield.” Por instance, its hero is Davy,
and its heroine “Dora.” This latter is the
‘ 4 Agnes ” of Dickens’ work, while Mrs. Ward s
“Lucy” is its “Dora.” There is, too, a
inland “ Peggotty,” who employs the same ‘1
thank ’ee kindly, Davy.” It is also very evident
that the character of “ Elsie ” is largely borrowed
from the journal of Marie Bashkirtseff.
It is proposed, to freeze Deeming s brain
and send it to England for inspection by the
“highest medical authority.’ As usual the
Government is doing things by halves. the
great necessity of the case is that the judge who
declared, without waiting for any evidence, that
Deeming was perfectly sane, should befiozen, and
sent to England, and inspected, with a view to
finding out why lie did it. Some of the doctors
might also be frozen with considerable advantage.
Here is a characteristic story hitherto
unpublished of a brother of Carlyle s. Returning
lioifie from market one day with a “wee drappie
in their een ” the brother quarrelled with his son
on account of his careless driving. The youth in
a huff stopped the horse and flinging his father
DEMOCRATIC (VERY).
M.L.A. (to lawyer’s miserable little clerk) : “My boy, does your employer permit you to smoke during
office-hours?”
CLERK (quite seriously) : “Oh! well, he doesn’t mind when there’s no one particklar here!"
the reins, refused to drive any further. The old
man likewise declined and the stubborn pair sat
still. Rather than give in, the soil got down and
began to walk home a distance of 10 or 12 mihs.
Then the father followed suit. The horse was
found attached to the cart grazing quietly in a
cemetery next day by a neighbour.
Newnes, M.P., of Tit-Bits notoriety, was
fairly “on his uppers” when he commenced his
inner The writer knew him well then, and has
often heard him tell how he struck oil. As a boy
he had been in the habit of clipping interesting
pieces from the newspapers, and at this time ho
had about a dozen large scrap-books full, bo as
a last resource, he tried to sell them to some of the
so-called comic papers. He vainly tramped Lon-
don streets for a whole, week, but could do noth-
ing with them, until at last he met a publisher
who remarked that he was willing to go halves
■with him in bringing out the scraps m a weekly
periodical. Newnes' next move was characteristic ;
‘‘ If it will pay,” he thought, “ I’ll try and manage
it myself.” And with the help of a couple of
hopeful friends he did. The idea took ; and that s
how the world's organised plagiarism vyas stalled.
Reported to the (Q.) Central Board of
Health that the Diamantina blacks are rotting
-with loathsome disease, and tout now for medsin
sis piteously as over they cadged for bacca oi
A Gallon (Q.) farmer sent down six bags
of prime potatoes to a Brisbane agent, for sale.
Account rendered; Sale of potatoes, including
Ws 11s. ; per contra (railway freight, bs. M. ;
cartage, Gd. ; commission, Gd.) 9s. 3d. ; balance
fas per stamps enclosed) Is. 9d.
London Hawk, of March. 26, publishes in
leading type two columns of presumably original
matter on the Australian subject, “ Swags. I hat
article was first published m a Sydney Sunday
paper of this year and is reprinted with the typo-
graphical errors which marred its original appear-
ance.
The Cause of the Trouble.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Once upon a time, the Queensland Government
became suddenly afflicted with a pious sense of
horror at the treatment of the natives, and, in
consequence, issued nothing but blank cartridges
to the native police; and called upon the other
provinces to see how good they were. If there
was any “dispersing” of blacks to be done the
officer in charge found the bullets, or obtained
them from the stations, so that the niggers “got
there all the same ” in the end.
Many Sydney firms owned stations then, and
some of the partners, leading lights of religious
societies, who openly approved of the action of
the Queensland authorities, sent up ball-cartridge
amongst the station stores, but never asked what
became of it. The manager never reported that
the blacks were bad when he wrote down. He
was too wise.
One day Donovan, the super, of a large coastal
cattle-station owned by a very pious Sydney man,
since gone to his reward, came upon a camp
where the blacks had been having a great feed of
beef. As they had “given him fits” for some
time and kept him going from one end of the run
to the other, he did not feel in the pleasantest of
tempers as he surveyed the relies of the feast.
“Blessed if I won’t let the police take a turn
this time,” he muttered, and returned home to
send a messenger to the barracks.
The run was notoriously a bad one for blacks ;
there was a deen fringe of mangrove swamps, in
addition to some broken, scrubby ranges where
they could always find refuge. The police hap-
pened not to be on patrol, and turned up that
evening.
“ How are you off for cartridges?” was the
first question of the officer’s, after the horses were
turned out.
“ Devilish short; hanged if I think we have got
Examination proved that they had scarcely a
couple of rounds. This was embarrassing. The
next station was thirty miles away, and at the
telegraph station at the crossing, some ten miles
off, it was very unlikely that they would have any.
However, the storekeeper was despatched there
on spec., with instructions to get back some time
that night. , , , ~
Now, unfortunately, there was a pub. at tne
crossing, and the storekeeper was a man of great
thirst; but as Donovan was hard pushed he
chanced it, and entrusted a discreetly-worded
telegram to Sir Yahoo Geebung, C.M.G., request-
ing him not to forget “ the usual sporting material
iiAhe next consignment of stores/’
Sir Geebung sat in his private office the next
morning just at the time the natives < n his
northern station were suffering retribution tor
their depraved appetites, when his telegrams, &c.,
were brought to him by his head clerk. Some ot
them had been opened in the course of business,
and amongst those opened was one that ran as
follows. ~.. ,
“ Hurry uplotsof cartridges niggers killed all
yom- cattle and we must wipe them out, or we 11 wipe
Here followed a signature that looked like
“ Blocdandouns.”
And this had been read by the whole ot the
decorous office down to the office-boy '■
The wretched storekeeper had got “tight, lost
Donovan’s telegram, and sent one of his own
written “under the influence.” The operators
bad eliminated the frequent adjectives and turned
“they’ll ” into “we’ll,’ that was all.
In the afternoon came another wire with the
orthodox signature of “J- G. Donovan
appended : , . , , ,
“First telegram dispatched ; send her drunk,
an Si?Geebung had a fit, then locked his door and
went to Ids private bottle. Poor Donovan, m
hopes of retrieving, had sent a short wire : ‘ ' irst
telegram despatched, sender drunk. \V ill ex-
plain.” And the operator, who had made a night
of it with the storekeeper, had mixed it up
supposed to have been the real cause of
the Government sending up ball-cartridge again
instead of blank.
F.
They didn’t like to hang Deeming on
Queen’s Birthday.
The original Ingram (of London Illus-
trated News) made his fortune (before iris news-
paper) out of Parr’s Life Pills.
Carlyle to Dully: “If you get as much
gold as will make a bridge across from Australia
to England, it won’t be worth a mealy potato.”
The Melbourne Customs department has
a suspicion that Chinese crackers are under-
invoiced, and so is taking the imports at invoice
price, as (he law allows. This comes just before
Queen’s Birthday, and the importers are in con-
sternation.
In London one woman in every sixty is a
confirmed gin-drinker, one in every twenty is a
pauper, and one in every thirteen is unable to read
or write. And it is the bony infants of this
unwholesome trio who are supposed to raise their
voices and thank Heaven in a joyous chorus
because they are jointly and individually “ a happy
English child.”
Among the curious documents preserved
in the British Museum is a letter from the Duchess
of Marlborough’s secretary to the poet Pope, which
reads thus :—“ Sir, —My lady, the Duchess of
Marlborough, being drunk, was unable to see you
when you called yesterday.” Good, old, truthful
female. Your duchess of to-day gets drunk occa-
sionally just the same, and then she adds lying to
her other sins by saying that she has influenza.
Dear Bulletin,— Your paragraph re th e
storm-destroyed Victorian kirk recalls a some-
what similar Quirindi (N.S.W.) incident of last
year. They were erecting a weatherboard church
and the builder, running short of timber, put the
roof on before the sides were up. A heavy wind-
storm, which left a track of uprooted trees for
over sixty miles, came along and demolished it.
It also bodily lifted from its supports the Castle
Mountain Church (Scotch), distant three miles,
belonging to the same district, and erected
same builder, a number of years previously. The
“ unco good,” on the afternoon of the occurrence,
were holding a bazaar in aid of the building fund,
and “ gaffing ” was indulged in! Was it a judg-
ment ?— Wheatsheaf.
Up to date, Australian
mines have yielded 295
millions sterling worth of
gold.
Among the recent arri-
vals at Geraldton, W.A.,
were some half-dozen Japan-
ese “ladies.” What with
Chinese pirates, yum-yura
maidens, coolies and abori-
ginal blacks, the Geraldton
district is becoming a perfect
Babel, and only needs the
proteges of Baron Hirsch to
settle on the grant of Gas-
eoyne-Ashburton land,which
was offered them, to com-
plete it.
The rapid mental decay
of Hinglish civilisation is
further indicated by the gib-
berings of a certain White
Rose League, composed of
fin de si'ecle Jacobites who
have discovered a “ right-
ful Queen ” in the Princess
Mary of Bavaria. Once a
month, or so, the polite
faction aforesaid meets to-
gether in somebody’s draw-
ing-room and swears alle-
giance to the Bavarian
female, after which a mys-
terious - looking flunkey
brings round the coffee and
they all drink to a new line
of Sovereigns. Maiy, who
is no longer a chicken, has
married into a royal family
of confirmed lunatics, and
the probability that her next
of kin would want to eat the
sceptre of Great Britain and
Ireland, if he ever got hold
of it, forms the only bond
of union between the White
Rose push and progressive
Radicalism. Otherwise there
appears no reason why this
little clique of used-up “con-
spirators ” shouldn’t be exe-
cuted on Tower Hill and
have their estates confiscated
by the Crown.


.t >;;; ?.
THE MONEY MARKET.
“Everything Kising."
(FEOM OCIi COBJUtSPONMSMT.) '
LONDON, Mat 12.
The cheapness of money continues.
The stock markets are animated, and
everything is rising, ?
t Three months’ bills are quoted at from
f to 1 per cent., short loans £ per cent.
London, Wednesday.—On the Stock
Exchange, New South Wales, Victorian,
New Zealand and Queensland 3i per cent,
stoek has risen 10s. Brisk business is
being done in colonial stocks.
Melbourne Harbor Trust, Melbourne
Tramways Trust, Prahran and South Mel-
bourne debentures have risen £l.
tytl IjasrjT^oii
(jcilf n)ay across
yet 11.I 1 .
CAPITA ip.
WMrirD
JLA CKUBokI
War wousreyj
4l>PLy I
iAilGKlFrirrfi
This morning the Commissioner oi Police re-
ceived a telegram from Inspector Sturt, stationed
it to the effect that it had just'been
/reported to him thatlast Sunday two blackfellows,
armed with rifles, and riding' horses, with swags,
were seen about 30 miles up tho-Warrego. From
the description given the inspector believed them
to be the men who are wanted for the Dora Dora
/murder in New South Wales.
lo o\~
\\l Q S-0 f c^
n * II
LA£«\
(Ue T .
He would sav to them in conclusion, let
them do their best to Semite to this
fair land a settled and well-ordered
-Not a Government prompted
by trick or stratagem, not a Govern-
ment supported by pandering to the
needy and to those who desired to benefit
themselves alone;
c/usoice: y oy- /V>ll
tjjtj powet.
j/o
IMPERIAL INSTI-
TUTE,
(o Vts. SPECIAL MESSAGE.)
London, Friday. —The Times, in an
article on the Imperial Institute, predicts
» glowing future for it, and remarks that
with the growth of their political power
the colonies are uniting more closely with
Great Britain.
looClojeh (o<y
THE HON. G REVT LLE-NU G ENT
SENTENCED.
(orit special message. ;
London. Thursday, Noon.—The Hon.
Patrick GreviUe-Nugent, who was recently
committed for trial on a charge ot in-
decently assaulting Miss Marion Price in
a carriage on the London, Brighton and
South Goast railway, has been tried and
convicted of common assault. A sentence
ot imprisonment for six months was passed
p*'. FfcrUcTion Bj/ the •
•' k/fyat
"jercy ihj I I'Oa.* boty
ay ai;d ai;
Aristocrat' Jy /lujTralia , Carnygfoy lelb nje
rtjrjljutiq ionje a tjderbred je\lods tijere jora Sim-
ilar ' hJljile je daj 1
London, Thfenday - Lieutenant-
General Grosser, Prefect of St. Peters-
burg and Grandmaster of Police, is dead.
It is- believed that death was not due to
poison administered by Nihilists, but to
an injection of vitalinc, a quack med' u-e,
during a recent illness
Cfaij Roosljen) wJill wni cLixcarjdyyayile
|or Iyp fyore dea\ly Klflliye-
fjereyou f}">) HJaitfyff rou<{ fljp
Corner /w U)/ Cxol*. armed ryilfa. Conj)fkG to/oW
1 Oot fit'- 1
Ihe LamdiM Jad\w refused (Cadiinate
~ Jfor .
Irl/vj fja/s bool\ o\j
Ifje laujlj t]fiU"Conje \\j
5jr?OM(H !|\l Peat^.'
mJost ty Comforter- ' Ai/c/ ijoH/my pvor fellonl Kljatisyour
JteEyiNq 1 J should hhe to.deJTwarned/
j (jf'/ProJ hjdrj
f fjp boilei-iroy Offer*
A/ Zealanders a ee iorfyir
Otvfj C)‘j-nVodj *
London, Friday Night.— General
Booth is appealing to the Govcfnmcnt of
-hi cw Zealand to assist him in obtaining free
passages for the 500 immigrants who arc
to form an “ oversea colony m New
Zealand,
? ir ® eiu 7 I<och. Governor of Cape
Colony, has delivered a speech in the
course of which ho adverted to the pres
posal to hold Pan-Britannic contests. lie
remarked that tho athletic portion of the
scheme was calculated to draw the English-
speaking races closer together.
After a// /t /pay out fl/af 3/66 s Zifatfaw?
ftjprely fo/fat/ea ft/egc/ly hz/fif /fa Q. Q, P].
THINGS IN GENERAL


W totunhH
M «r*Koll remina-b us
fKe ] udoeS Fayef for /\A r
\<s.k pressed ir>d ly fKe Kope 'fhfo'h
th®y wiH‘rr>®*a-h aooir»
y <as> cxbows V
rp? * r&d[ S
//7 CL rornsdi y < J ■"")cl
/ 4-, .rirA
Ik
* / ''vwKai"' -fKoy sot~
I I y
| O Thoirs "
/d=>o V je re yTHT* c* i ,♦
l&t have -H-j e lob oh S>a v n~>|> your* Soul hos
d -fr’ienct of k» r>t> ci”-f-i* ie of nvne well ai| b <2-
" -together*
2>o cJ uc,'f i o t-'*
"Suit'*
if , , • , A he i
IA-of-d ofe plut-n-i,
'f°r» "D uf fj v ?
yUx-s eiw S pea k«e. r-
VVilt ye shu"t~ up °r sKqII.
J dof wji+'K +Kit> "
rN
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


SIR W. C. F. ROBINSON
ON WEST AUSTRALIA.
“ New life and activity are apparent on every side.
Population is flowing in, and new industries are being
started. The value of property is increasing. West)
.Australia will shortly be known as one of the most im-
iportant gold hearing countries in the world.”
“The climate is one of the finest in the world. It is the
land of fruits, flowers, and vineyards, and the wine-grow-
ing industry will soon be an important one.”
We offer on easy terms, or for cash, specially
selected allotments at
PERTH AND ALBANY.
Good Land, splendidly situated, from TEN POUNDS
per lot upwards.
Send or twite for plans to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
ST. GEORGES TERRACE, PERTH, W.A. ; OR
309 Pitt-streot, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Use Batho’s Bakin? Powder,
Queenslanders must have large heads ! The
celebrated linn of hatters, B, Mountcastlo & Sons,
Albert-Street, Brisbane, keep hats in stock up to
size 72.
For a Pick-me-up in the morning l try a “milk
punch ” made at Walsh’s. Now American liar,
Sydney Theatre Royal Hotel.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
PROTECTION FROM COLD.-Proper
warmth is necessary for the preservation of
health for young and old.- By sending an order to
Finney, Isles and Co., Brisbane, with a remittance
to cover amount, a pair of excellent, soft, white
Blankets will be sent by return parcel post to any
address in the colony. Fine large size for single
beds, with postage included, 12s. 3d.; extra
quality, 15s. 3d. per pair; superior large, for
three quarter beds, 15s. l)d. and 18s. Od. ; super-
fine, for double beds, IDs. Gd. and 245. ; extra
super., largest size for double beds, with plenty to
tuck in all round, 235. Gd., 30s. and 355. ; superior
quality, state bed size, 40s. 50s. and 00s. per pair.
Residents in the country, by comparing the fine,
heat-giving quality and value of Finney, Isles and
Co.’s Blankets with the poor quality usually sold
at the same or higher prices, will find the result to
be as astonishing as satisfactory. Poor quality
will be easily detected by the raw, unfinished sur-
face of the inside. Customers living outside the
radius of the Parcel Post delivery should avail
themselves of it to the nearest point it reaches,
where they could send for their parcels.
Society
Not long ago, a N.S.W. surveyor asked his
district-surveyor for an increase in salary.
Reason assigned ; “ Hardship consequent on the
dearth of female society in the district.”
# * *
The Young Victorian Patriotic League,
which still exists owing to the nauseous jam
bestowed upon it by the “ respectable ” journals
of Melbourne, lias established a branch called the
Second-Class League, to induce dudes, counter-
jumpers, and “sich,” to defeat the Government’s
policy of railway retrenchment by persistently
travelling second-class. Why not in the dog-box
with the other pups ?
* * *
The Marshall Lyle and Reverend Gaol-
chaplain Scott’s little tiff about Deeming might be
summed up in a few lines by the pietist:—
“The journals have arrived.” Legend
outside the book-shop once a month. And when
the Australian proletarian goes home he finds his
steak a cinder, and the potatoes stones, while the
Missus, with the baby choking, face-downwards,
over her left arm, clutches in her right fist the
yellow-covered miser-murderer. •
# * »
The po’ Australian blackfellow doesn’t get
his annual blanket until mid-winter, because
Queen Wikitoria couldn’t get born earlier in the
year.
* * #
They say that German William has been
photographed in 14G different uniforms right off
the reel, and didn’t “look pleasant” in one of
them.
* # #
Thus are “ choice ” minor N.S.W. Govern-
ment billets disposed of : The messengership in a
big department being vacant, many highly-snit-
able and well-recommended men applied. Gov.
Carington, however (this was immediately before
bis departure), waited upon the Minister and
claimed the billet for a “ friend” of his. “Cer-
tainly, your Excellency,” said the Minister;
“ Who is your friend ?” “My footman,” said the
yawning Governor, and the footman got it and
holds it. Again a messengership in another large
department became vacant, when a well-known
figure in political life got the billet for his coach-
man. It has for many years past been the prac-
tice for Governors to provide good Government
billets for their flunkeys at the expense of men
entitled to promotion. This system should be
knocked on the head.
• # *
Dear Bulletin, —Your version of the terra
“Jimmy Woodser ” may be correct in some parts
of Australia; but in three provinces, at least, a
solitary drink is always known as a “ Jack
Smithers.” However, it does not much matter,
for you get there all the same.—D.
# » •
In a Pitt-street “ Johnny-All-Sorts ” shop
there is now exposed for sale most of the stock-
in-trade (two brass-plates) of two recently-
exploded Sydney “banking” institutions. The
rest of the brass on which one of these “ banks "
traded is now in gaol.
* # #
The professional head of a Bananaland
Government department, domestically connected
with a prominent Minister, has been admitted to
Woogaroo Asylum. Immediate cause—the prick-
ing of the Mount Morgan gold-bubble.
* * •
A sensational assault and false-imprison-
ment case will shortly be heard by N.S.W.
Supreme Court. Plaintiff, a Police-Magistrate,
who claims £2OOO and has retained Mr. Want,
Q.C., alleges that defendant, dissatisfied with an
official decision given by him, got him into a
room, locked the door, and seriously assaulted him.
# # *
Advertisement from Sydney Evening
News :
T LEWIS ,do hereby give (Forty Pounds)
-G £4O to the Sir Moses Monteflore Jewish Home,
Moore Park, on sth. of April, 1892.
(Signed) LEWIS .
Truly, charity is getting pretty low down. Some
day the nineteenth century philanthropist will
strike the eternal bed-rock by inserting a five-
shilling “display” advertisement to announce
that lie “ hereby ” gives sixpence to an unshod
orphan.
• # *
N.S.W. Chief Judge Owen’s decision in
favour of the defendants in the ease, Batt and
Pnrves v. Onslow and others, may be considered
as a complete exoneration of Mr. Robert Smith
(late Crown Solicitor) from the serious charge of
duplicity, brought against him by implication.
Messrs. Batt and Pnrves, in effect, charged
Mr. Smith, who was their solicitor, with
having suppressed a cablegram received from
Mrs. Onslow’s agent which resulted in their
paying .£12,000 more for Darling Island
than Mrs, Onslow was willing to accept.
Judge Owen was particularly severe, in
his judgment, against plaintiffs, who, instead of
getting back their £12,000, will probably have to
pay costs to the tune of £4OOO. Of course, the
case goes to the Full Court, and thence to the
Privy Council. By the time it is finished, the
costs will probably be £12,000.
* # *
The be-knighted Macßain, letting himself
out at a parliamentary feed, observed that :he birth
of a new vice-regal baby was “ not only a cause of
congratulation to His Excellency the Governor
and his lady, but also to the colony of Victoria.”
The little stranger, according to Mac., must have
been specially sent to the Cabbage Garden as a
tonic for “ prevailing depression,” and The Bul-
letin tunes a lay—
IN LIQUIDATION.
ARTIST (to literary man, hard up and intoxicated); “Never mind, old fellow, brace up! A
man of your genius-”
LITERARY MAN: “Ah—but (hic) in these days of depression even genius has to go into
liquidation.”
Dear Bulletin, —Bartholomew, whose
death you recently noticed, did not drive the
ooacb by being thrown from which Lady Mary
Fitzroy was killed. It was Sir Charles Fitzroy
himself who drove the four-in-hand, and he was
the only one who escaped : Masters, the aide, had
his skull broken, and was trepanned, and lived
but a day or two ; Lady Mary was killed on the
spot. The horses bolted from Government-House
door, leaving the coachman and footman behind,
and some people said —but no matter. The writer
saw the whole thing from the play-ground of the
King’s School.—M.R.A. [A lot of other people
who saw the event are prepared to swear that Sir
Charles Fitzroy saw the whole proceeding from
the window. But it doesn’t matter. History is
built that way.—Ed. B.]
* * *
The same jealous curiosity that prompts a
leading actor to go and see a rival play an
important character is apparent in the big-wigs
of the Bench. Judge Molesworth stood right
under Hodges during the latter end of the Deem-
ing trial, and walked out of Court just as the
jury retired. Having seen (or heard) how his
brother actor shaped in a strong tragic role,
Molosworth took not the least interest in the
final spectacular act, and was apparently the only
member of the audience who didn’t wait to see the
curtain fall. Enough for him that Hodges hadn’t
made a great hit.
The proprietress of a certain establishment
of which much mention was made in a recent
ugly down-south seduction case is nearly related
to a local family that is very “swagger ” indeed.
The beastly skeleton nearly rattled out of the
cupboard several times during the trial.
# * *
Premier Shiels thinks that his colt, Duffy,
was poisoned before the race for the Victorian
Speakership. L. L. Smith, the Government
doctor, thinks it was only a decayed tooth and a
sore throat. [N.B. —This has been cabled to
England as a quid for the Duke of Westminster’s
quo.]
* • •
All the holy cranks of Australia arc
writing letters to Deeming in his last hours. One
pious female has sent him a small bag fall of
earth which, she asserts, was dug up on Mount
Zion, also a long letter of exhortation, a pamphlet,
and some dried flowers which, it seems, also came
from Zion. Considering that what used to bo
Zion is now a species of ash-heap infested by half
the goats in Palestine, and no respectable female
could go there without risk of breaking her neck or
of being knocked down and slobbered on by a
camel, there is an air of discrepancy about the
flowers, but no doubt the old lady believes in them.
Another woman has sent Deeming a letter of 1G
pages exhorting him to “believe,” and offering to
put up a monument to him (on condition that he
leaves her his autobiography); and several more
have forwarded Bibles with passages marked which
seem likely to interest a man who is just going to
be banged. Almost all the Bibles have flowers in
them. Some anonymous benefactor lias forwarded
a quantity of jam in pots, and among the other
things which have come to hand are some
slippers, two of Spurgeon’s sermons, one
prayer-book, and a bound volume of some
pious magazine or other. All these contributions,
however, have been blocked at the gate, and the
only comforting document which has reached the
prisoner is the famous tailor’s bill from Sydney.
# * *
The vice-regal household in Melbourne is
said to have been grieved and shocked by The
Bulletin picture of Lady Hopetoun pushing a
perambulator. If the Countess wishes it to be
distinctly understood that she wouldn’t wheel her
own “pram.” for worlds, friends will please accept
this intimation.
Two ladies from the bush visited a Bris-
bane orphanage, under cover of acomniittee-man’s
card of introduction. The matron was affable but
a trifle “sudden.” She took the visitors into one
apartment and comprehensively explained • “ This
is one room. The rest are each like this. And
that passage will take you the way out by the
back-door. Good afternoon, and thanks.”
# * *
The girl patrons of Victorian football are
evidently most partial to the decollette players,
savages who sport large arms bare to the shoulders
and make a seductive display of naked neck and
legs. As matches grow more fleshly every season
the number of maidens who bring opera-glasses to’
bear upon the struggle increases apace. The
darlings experience, in their little way, all the
delights of a bald head watching the ballet.
* # *
The Victorian Artists’ Society open their
new picture-gallery at Eastern Hill, Melbourne,
on May 28th. Gov. Hopetoun has been captured
for an inaugural dinner and other ceremonies, and
it is to be hoped that a vigorous attempt to revive
an almost moribund interest in a local industry
will not be unsuccessful. The “patrons ”of art
are not hungry for pictures these bad times, but
they might take a few chances in raffles if II.E.
will set the example. Or if the president can lure.
His Ex. into gammoning to buy several of the
“ cronkest ” works at abnormal prices, a wild rush
for the others might result.
# *
“ The whole course of European history
in the Napoleonic period,” says a London journa-
list, “ was changed by the accident of an obscure
Corsican attorney of feeble health marrying a
woman as unsoundly constituted as himself, and
having an epileptic son with a mania for war.”
Which reminds us, the biggest newspaper boom in
Australian history was caused by the accident of
an obscure Lancashire lunatic marrying a woman
of crazy, religious opinions, and having an
epileptic son with a mania for burying wives
under the hearthstone.
* * *
A taste for unorthodox marriages must
run in the feeble bacteria of the Stamford gore.
The racing earl whose death, without issue, let in
his cousin, the Cape of Good Hope parson (whose
son, the half-nigger, is now the earl), took two
very gay and festive women to the altar. The
first was an Oxford girl of the town, picked up in
his early university days. She withered like a
weed, and when it transpired that Stamford had
cast his dull, dreamy eyes upon a rather too cele-
brated London beauty, the Queen (runs the story)
wrote to the noble widower, asking him to pause
and consider before forming a second mesalliance.
To which appeal Stamford replied that, if neces-
sary, he intended to choose a third, fourth, or
fifth countess of any sort he liked. He suited
himself, and always seemed satisfied with his lot.
Sassiety used to ignore my Lady Stamford at Ascot
and other fashionable gatherings, but the hand-
some, stately one played her part to the supreme
satisfaction of her lawful owner, anyhow. At
home, as lady of the mam r, she won for herself
a good name, which didn’t change for the worse
after she became a rich widow,
* # *
Deeming’s alleged revelation to Miss
Rounsevell concerning a certain spot in a South
African cemetery, where he claims to have planted
an enormous sum in gold, is evidently his own
humorous way of trying to get square with the
girl that he has got to leave behind him. If lie
can only persuade the Rounsevell family that
they have got exclusive information about an
enormous pile of specie, then the gold-thirst will
presently come upon that misguided household,
and they will sell all their property to pay their
joint passages to the Cape, and will quarrel all
the way about thedivision oftheplunder, and, when
they get on land, each one of them will try either to
dodge or to assassinate the rest and get to the
place first. Then, when they do get there, they
will buy spades and pickaxes and dark-lanterns,
and lie around watching the spot, and waiting for
a murky night so that they can dig up the colli
unobserved. And at last, when the night comes,
and it is raining heavily, and the wind is flapping
drearily among the dripping trees, they will get
to work, with about six women shivering in the
slush and holding the lantern, and eight men—for
all the Rounsevill family and its branches and
collateral relatives will be there—digging savagely
and hungrily among the damp bones of the
dead generations, and they will excavate
an enormous hole and find nothing. Then
some of them will become idiotic with the
sudden shock, and be found next day gibbering
The shepherd sought to save a man,
And on to Zion light him,
But Satan saw and stormed, and sent
His son along to spite him.
TO BABY'S FELLOW-COUNTRYMEN.
Good people, now with one accord
Send praises up to Heaven ;
Your leading Lady to her Lord
A precious pledge has given ;
For him alone it was not meant,
Although he jubilates.
The country on t hat choice event
Itself congratulates.
This is no democratic girl,
Too delicate to thrive—
The babe’s a hoy and (what is more)
A strong Conservative,
A darling with a lofty sneer
For him that digs and delves;
So, whilst you compliment the peer,
Congratulate yourselves.
The ways of Providence are mixed,
And goodness only knows
The reason why your hopes are fixed
On “ teeny toddletoes.”
But should your hearts incline to grief
When taxes new annoy,
Throw up your hats, and find relief
In thinking of the boy.
When neighbour Jones looks In to say
His wife has got a son
Your gratitude you don’t display
For all that he has done.
But, should Lord Hopetoun feel inclined
To say as much to you,
Exclaim at once “ How very kind !
Congratulate us, do.”
TO THE SPEAKER OF THE VICTORIAN ASSEMBLY,
They have voted you into the chair, Tom Bent;
One day we shall call you a knight;
Now let your head stick to its hair, Tom Bent,
And try to look ever polite.
Restrain the warm members with gentle rebukes—
You mustn’t invite ’em to “ put up their docks,”
Nor throw down your wig on the floor, gadsooks !
And bid ’em come on for a fight.
You must purchase Mat. Davies’s gown, Tom Bent,
That garment embroidered in gold,
Which cost nearly two ’under’d poun’, Tom Bent,
When Matthew in affluence rolled.
Disguised in the glories of Speaker at last,
As chief among aft the good “ commoners” class’t,
We hope you’ll have done with the days that are past.
And not play the Tommy of old.
Your Hinglish is not very chaste, Tom Bent,
Your accent is not very sweet ;
For lamin’ you have a distaste, Tom Bent —
Vet O ! you’re a good ’tin to eat :
So, if you give dinners and entertain well,
And chuck in some French, such as pastry lev gel,
You can pansy yourself as no end of a swell,
And dazzle the bloomin’ elect.
Then ’ere’s to your ’elth with a song, Tom Bent,
In truth you’re a wonderful man,
And may you live ’appy and long, Tom Bent!
Though life is at best hut a span.
You ought to do well in that billet unique
To which you were somehow appointed last week,
For the duty of Speakers, thank God ! is to speak
As little as ever they can.
THE LOVE OF A “GOD.”
[For Tick Bulletin.]
She stood with the tall, painted turrets above her,
While I lingered and worshipped the boards where sh
trod—
From the rose in her hair to her instep I love her,
But what does she eare tor the love of a “ god V ”
Ah, belle of the stage ! if the gods should forsake you
Your bright star would fall like a stone from the sky •
You know ’tis the cheers of their godships that make con
And yet you begrudge them a blink from your eye."
While we sit in the darkness, and pay' you our duty,
You give not e’en that which our worship demands
You have eyes for the dress-circle swell and the beauty
Who think ’twould he “ vulgah ” to clap their vi,iu
hands.
Yet, we have romances, and we have our trouble
'Tis only the stage of our lives is so wide.
M.v Queen ! I’m as worthy' as any ga.y noble
Who strutted thro’ Home with a sword at his side’
Yet, bless her ! God bless her ! our fair prima donna
A lily, a daisy, a willow, a rose* !
And brightly and long may the lime-light shine on her
As belle of the ballet wherever she goes.
From.the crown of her bend to her instep I love her
With love that shall rest only tinder the sod
For, search t hro’ I he world and you’ll never discover
A queen of (lie footlights in love with a “ god."
H. L.


New American Bar
(Theatre Roval Hotel \
w CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
•In 4 . A. Walsli, Proprietor
(Late oj the Occidental Hotel, San Francisco).
•Ds. A. Walsh and his assistants, American barkeepers,
continue (o cater to the Sydney Public, and their Gin
r izzes,'Champagne Cocktails, Milk Punches, Manhattan
Cocktails, are the rage of the town. Mr. Walsh, while
thanking his friends for their generous patronage, begs
to inform them that only the best brands of Spirits,
’Vines, and Cigars are sold at Ibis house. If yon have
t)°t tried one of Walsh’s Gin Fizzes this hot weather
i ou had better do sj.
Use Batiio’s Baking Powder.
Laboucliere regrets that Mrs. Montague,
recently gaoled for the manslaughter of her
daughter, is married, and that Deeming is not a
free man. because, otherwise, “a marriage be-
tween them might have produced interesting com-
plications.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
DFD
PBOTOOXIAX>£CiO
GOODS.
“MY OPTICIANS,”
(H. S. JERDAN & CO.)
46‘j <;uok<;e stkeet. svd.miv.
Are the best and cheapest people for all kinds
of Photo. Goods for Amateur or Professional.
A complete Photographic Outfit, compris-
ing Camera, Lena, Stand, Dark Slide, Plates,
Dishes, Chemicals, Scales, Measures, Ruhr
Lam •, Sen«, Paper, Printing Frames, and
Rook of Instructions—in fact, everything
ready to sta r.
To take 4J x 3.}, or e. de v. pictures, £2 10 0
To take Cl x 4;|, or cabinet ~ £4 4 0
This is a capital outfit for an amateur, who
Las no desire to spend much money, and
wishes to do good work.
Full price list and illustrations sent free.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
.1. Lichtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire-
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., has taken over the above oldt
established first-class hotel. The Garden Restaurant is=
now ready for the summer months.
An ‘ imperial punch ” made at Walsh’s;
American Bar is a drink fit for the gods. Sydney
Theatre Royal Hotel.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Messrs. Johnstone, O’Shamiessy and Co,,
Ltd., of 234 & 230 Coll ins-street, Melbourne, now
offer their highly artistic and permanent cabinet
photographs at the reduced price of one guinea
per dozen. All other s : zes up to panels have
undergone corresponding reductions. Ask for
revised price-list at the studios.*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
PEMELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
Land atPerth, W.A., the best Investment,
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Po., Ltd.,
SOOPitt-streot, Sydney,
wretchedly in the big hole; and some of them will
be gaoled for unlawfully tearing up a sepulchre;
and the rest, having" no money to get home with,
will wander about the country and look for roots,
and elope with Zulu chiefs, and spend the rest of
their miserable days chopping wood and carrying
beer for the unclad barbarian. There is nothing
on earth that will bring a respectable family down
so low, or so suddenly, as looking for buried
treasure, and Deeming, who most likely lias been
looking for buried treasure himself at some time
or other in his weird career, is evidently aware of
this. If the Rounsevell family are well advised,
they will hand the undermining plumber’s revela-
tions over to an enemy, or else sell the secret by
private tender.
* # #
The Leeds (Eng.) Times heaves this moral
reflection after the retreating figure of Mrs.
Osborne, the pearl-thief, late of Holloway gaol :
From the period of Mrs. Osborne’s disappearance from
the country to the day when she returned to take her
trial for perjury, there was a sickly display of washed-out
sentiment in the namby-pamby columns of the namby-
pamby press, and since the aristocratic lady has been
waiting events in Holloway, ttie same sentimental clap-
trap has oozed out again, it goes without saying that if
Mrs. Osborne had been a decrepit old woman on crutches,
who earned tier living by hawking pins, and had been
captured by a posse of disguised policemen while in the
act of stealing an apron full of stale bread from the
chickens in the backyard, the namby-pamby press
aforesaid would have let her get six months without
going into hysterics about it, or pinching itself to raise
the pitying tear ; but as Mrs. Osborne happens to be an
aristocratic person with refined tastes and a pretty face,
it must needs shriek because her cell in Holloway hasn’t
been made into a drawing-room, and wall-bells "haven’t
been furnished for her to ring when she requires the
cook, or the housemaid, or the butler, or some other
menial.
* * *
The dominant cause of the quarrel
between Lawyer Lyle and Parson Scott over the
murderer Deeming seems to have been vulgar,
common jealousy of the convict’s affection ! Or
was it influenced by a yearning greed for “the
demon’s ” manuscript ?
• * *
The man who is his own lawyer seldom
advises himself to enter into litigation.
• * #
Honourable Pat. Nugent, charged with
criminal assault in a railway-carriage, was, it is
cabled, let down more easily than Valentine
Baker. The gallant colonel, like the lion. Patrick,
was found guilty of a “common” assault only,
inasmuch as ho stopped short of gross brutality
when he found himself out in bis calculations, but
the court gave him a year and fined him £5OO. The
six months’sentence passed on Nugent looks like
a concession to his family connections.
On a notice-board outside West Melbourne
police station last week, there were six notices of
rewards, and five were for the conviction of in-
fanticides. In Melbourne dailies every day, there
is half-a-column of thinly-veiled advertisements,
offering to procure abortion.
• # #
It is not generally known that about £‘sooo
prevented W. R. Wilson from buying Barr Smith's
beautiful estate at Mitcham, near Adelaide, for a
stud. Barr Smith, Sir Thomas Elder’s partner,
refused to take .£50,000, and stuck out for £55,0(0.
Wilson then went to St. Albans, and Adelaide
lost a real good thing.
# * *
“ How many gentlemen for us ?” asked
the proprietress of a Bundaberg (Q.) hotel of the
“ boots,” just returned from the steamer. “ One,
ma’am!” and, as an afterthought, “and there’s
four commercial travellers !”
• # *
A company of four itinerant Italian
musicians, well-known about Sydney, intend going
home shortly to see their families, whom they left
in Italy. It is said that these “ buskers,” for an
hour’s performance nightly at the Hotel Australia,
receive £250 a year, and that their takings average
£l2 a week each.
# * *
Apropos the charges made by ex-prisoner
Ross against the authorities of Trial Bay (N.S.W.)
’Prison —now is the time for finding out the exact
-character of the occult influence by which Com-
mander Horne, the chief gaoler, was suddenly
pitchforked {over the heads of many deserving and
veteran officials) from the harmless and ornamental
.position of Sergeant-at-Anns in the Maoriland
House of Representatives to his present post in
• the N.S.W. penal department,
* * *
At Sydney School of Arts, casual members
■ are now admitted at one shilling per week.
* # #
Max O’Rell’s lectures correspond with his
’published books. However, the Australian has
: as yet had nothing to correspond with his “ Chez
Baddy,” a brochure on Ireland, seemingly written
to suit English Tory tastes. Is the wily Smytlie
responsible for the excision ?
* # #
The cynical bead of a N.S.W. Government
office now being “ retrenched ” was startled the
other day by the suggestion of a warm-hearted,
disinterested youth in the office that flic single
men should be discharged before the married ones,
i he noble youth was prepared to sacrifice him-
self. Later it came out that ho had been lending
money to several married men in the office and
"’anted his little per shent.
The Age : “ The Countess of Hopetoun’s
reception was largely attended by ladies and
gentlemen prominent in all ranks of society.”
Neat and comprehensive—very.
* *■ *
r n i ' mi
llie other day in Melbourne an elderly
citizen was knocked down m the street and gone
through by a larrikin, and having nothing worth
speaking of in lus pockets the assailant took his
false teeth out of his mouth and fled with them
round the corner into the darkness. If the
depression” gets much worse, the garrotting
brotherhood will soon be waylaying cripples at
night and seizing their crutches and wooden legs
to sell as firewood.
* J *
Since the advent in Sydney of the
Srsssr’ •fr. L u” rrr, *•*
dejected. 7 Old maids 6 havTTegemSted into
female cranks. The rnee-ow and purr and
t -t-t-t are no longer greeted with transports
„ , h itiL 11 .if is pox ts
■it tabl3 lie lias "hfc'tlie°cifor°spm
steal the neit-door neighbour’s" chicken? No
longer has the darling quadruped a pillow to him-
self beside that of his dear mistress. No! the
faithful animal prowls about unprotected at night
and sleeps up a tree or on a coal-heap.
* # x
Tim n,. w,;j 1 /q -i \ • ,
<< f »; ~ S vW*tnoy) conspirators,
sent up tor 14 years penal servitude, invoked
nigh heaven tor a re-iuvestigation, without avail,
•Bank-fraud conspirators who were lately ‘let
<nuu " ith seven years arc already having their
(2/\.
f
\CSy7Q--
3j/k-
/- l#r/TING <3 US PEC M.
//Rtf (To Court Taster J //o f Itarltf
tSomepvj/at /// oar tiirtfe tfoufi tfe rtrf/rf
tfk a'o sasjbrcT (? a aty/pa/p/tf /ay6.
Tastf /tfu a/rtf rrybar/' "
Z - T//t r/fsTf/ts
// /? // ’//at M/efeurect as /f/uoi.
(Passes /te Jou/p Course J
case re-examined by a special commission. The
question to be considered in the bank-fraud case
is, in The Bulletin’s opinion, simply this—Did
the convicted men obviously go into the banking
business with the intention of living on the
depositors ? If they did, let them stay in gaol.
By the way, Dr. Wright’s quondam patient,
the attractive female accomplice of the male con-
victs above-mentioned, has now “put in” her
five years. It is said that she was a casus belli
in the household of at least one of her gaolers,
where site was always employed as a servant.
# * *
Some queer stories, more or less un-
reliable, probably, are told of Horrocks, the
young man charged with the Hemmant (Q.)
murder. Amongst others, that he had a great
fancy for slaughtering fowls. If he sighted any
in tlie yard they would soon be dead. He was
down the bay in a small sailing-yacht, some time
since, and one of the crew fell overboard. They
were beating at the time, with Horrocks at the
tiller. lie looked round to the man in the water
with, “ I will pick you up next board.” The man
was never sighted again. “He’ll be all right;
he’s gone above,’’said Horrocks, whose demeanour
was always considered eccentric.
A Broken River (Vic.) squatter is rather
touchy on the subject of judging at shows, lie
made the slight error of giving first prize in a
shorthorn bull class to a “stag ” which had been
penned up by mistake.
.., , _
Press critics are puzzled over Rosebery.
He is pre-eminently an Imperialist, yet calls him-
self a Home-Ruler. He is President of the
Imperial Federation League and is (or was) Chair-
man of the Radical London County Council. He
was a staunch supporter of Gladstone when he
married, but Beaconsfield gave him his wife at the
altar. He is a chum of Wales and yet poses as a
friend of John Burns.
Lea d, as a cure for pleuro, has not come
. . , r L . ~ 5
I Mo much prominence, but there is one case_on
“teW tSTJfsrssrz
o ”a^id^^S k firedTn ! ’behiLfthTshmilde?
Th f beist 1 ‘ wml n ” ™"l i,lrid went into
' b f and the mob went into
camp a few miles farther on. Next morning it
tnrned up smilin » and straightway commenced to
do ,T ’ an . d at Wodongawas sold at top price.
General Booth, it is cabled, announces
that the subscriptions to his “ submerged tenth ”
movement since the beginning of the year have
been only .£4OOO, and the great work is at a stand-
still. Consequently the vanguard of the vast,
unwashed army of thieves and cranks and lunatics
won >t appear on the Darling Downs just yet.
Booth says nothing about the .£lOO,OOO or so which
he scooped in last year to keep the “submerged
tenth.” According to the preacher in the
flaming garment, the contributions have fallen
off enormously this year in all departments, and a
cold paralysis is coming over the drum and a
catalepsy is upon the trombone as a consequence,
and the howl is frozen in the expounder’s throat
for want of funds, and the outlook is very, very
gloomy.
At a recent U.S. Negro Conference a
speaker said :
The black man wants everything he can get on erediti
not thinking of the day of settlement. He carries a
heavy bundle, and, when he unloads it, it is a hoe and
plough and ignorance; the white man carries a light
bundle, and, when he unloads it, it is a pen and ink. The
negro must learn to bore with a small auger first.
Negroes were exhorted to apply educative in-
fluences to themselves, to learn trades, to raise
their own food, to keep out of debt, and to buy
land. If the 6,000,000 U.S. negroes once awake
to an earnest appreciation of this programme, the
day for a sudden and desperate settlement of the
“ colour question ” in America is not far distant.
At Orange (N.S.W.) lately, one China-
man’s mistress prosecuted another ditto - ditto
for “langwidge,” and brought her own Celes-
tial protector as a corroborative witness. To
ber disgust, John, having blown out a match,
staked his Confucian soul on the statement that—
“ Annie (the defendant) welly quiet gel ; Gehty
(the plaintiff and his “missus”) too mnehee jaw-
jaw, allee samee flghtee-fightee, allee time! ”■
Case dismissed ; pigtail barn-dance to follow.
Deeming is not to be “worked off” by the
regular Victorian executioner Jones, but w'ill ba
introduced to his future by an amateur who is
now “ learning the ropes.”
rn , ~ ~ , .
ihe money, a pretty considerable sum»
] ost to Deeming by a certain personal cards in
the train from Perth does not seem to have been
collected for defence expenses. But Frederick
alluded to the fact indirectly in his “Life not
worth Living” discourse from the spiked pulpit,
.
V. Mulligan tells m the Northern
Mining Register how, at the first of the Palmer
(N.Q.) rush, in 73, flour was 2s. per lb., “ well-
-90 “ ?£ bbler ’ 3
was unwillingly sold at 20s. Of course it was onJy
water diluted aligMy with rum(t). A one-eyed
& struts.
9 arriage wns n P to £ldo per tf m, notwithstanding
thft many teams and llie hundreds of packers
going np and down Hell’s Catos way.”
1 •
Dear Bulletin,—l have seen it printed in
your paper that Deeming insured his life once at
Rockhampton His height is given there as
Ssflu., whereas he is now only oft. 4 2 m.
Would it be a good idea for the authorities to
search the insurance records for his personal
statement, and the medico’s report attached
thereto. That would give his height, chest
measurement, weight, complexion, &e., and come
as near identification as possible. A man doesn’t
shrink four inches in a few years on this planet,
unless he is badly scalped or has I,is legs cut off.—
Yours, &0., Cosmos.
All Adelaide (S A.) needle-
w© in an, who works for
“sweaters"—in her own words,
for “men who got the work from
the shops, cut it out, and gave it
her to make”—told the S.A..
Shops and Factories Commis-
sion, the other day, that she had
to make shirts complete and
ready for the warehouse at 3ld,
each. Her usual hours of work
Were from 7.50 a.m., until mid-
night or 1 a.m. It took her 11
hours to finish a dozen shirts,
for -which she got 45., but then
she.had to find her own cotton,
which cost (Id. She herself
employed two girls, one at 9s. a
week and the other at 6s.
Button-holers were paid 2s. (id.
per week for the first three
months and ss. a week for the
next ■ three - months. The
“ sweaters ’’ who employed her
made 18s. a day profit.
A hitherto unpublished log
in the Deeming pile. Early in
1887 a man passing as Fred.
Bailey arrived in Melbourne
from Adelaide. He announced
himself as anxious to learn
plumbing or engineering, or
both, and a big Melbourne con-
tractor gave him a trial. Fred.
Bailey soon showed that he knew
more about the wcik than any
of his fellows, and was prized
accordingly. While in Mel-
bourne Mr. Bailey took unto
himself a wife, and they were
'seen together fairly often. After
a little time Fred, left Mel-
bourne alone. This is a true
item, and all we want to know
is how many slightly - raised
hearthstones are there in this
fair land of ours? The contractor
was busy elsewhere when Deem-
ing was being identified.
“Jacques Bonhomme, who
can not only talk of his three
acres but has got them, and who
in the aggregate stands for
7,000,000 landed proprietors, rep-
resents the real heart of France.
. . . There is no pauperism
in provincial France.”— Max.
O’Ret.l.
“The newspapers must be?
sold, and the bigger the lie the-
bigger the sale.”— Frederick
Bailey Deeming,
“General Gresser, Prefect of Police at
St. Petersburg,” says the cable, “ has been
poisoned by Nihilists, and is sinking rapidly.”
When anything goes wrong in Europe the
“respectable” press always announces that the
Nihilist, or the Socialist, or the Anarchist is the
cause of it. In the present instance, the news
simply means that Gresser may have been
poisoned, or he may only have an awful pain in
his stomach ; and if he is poisoned the Nihilists
may have done it, or it may have been done
by Ids wife, who wanted to marry the other-
fellow, or by his next heir, who wanted his cash,,
or by somebody who wanted his billet, or by
Government which suspected him of being a-,
Nihilist himself, or he may have suicided, or his:
dinner may have been under-cooked. Meanwhile,,
later advices announce that he is only ill throughi
swallowing the prescriptions of a quack doctor off
the Sam Hood variety, whom he called in ; andl
further on it will turn out that lie is quite well,
and then that he died ten years ago, and after
that it will transpire that there never was such a
person at all, and finally ho will be sent to
Siberia. Also, just as we are going to press we
bear that he is dead, and is slowly recovering, and
that ho has been promoted, and has hanged him-
self, and has just got married, and is short in his
cash and gone crazy.
AN ANNUAL SUBSCRIBER.
Though wealthy squatters sweat the land
And sixpence would deny
To one who pleads with outstretched hand—
They cannot help but die ;
Yea, though their lives be meanly pass’t
In hoarding up the booty,
The Government chips in at last
And claims the probate duty.
In Old Mortality we find
The country’s truest friend :
Through him the rich assist mankind
And serve a useful end.
’Tis true he takes the good and great,
And spares not blushing beauty—
But by the State, as sure as fate,
He does his probate-duty.


0111
Yoa eai % .
me; J want
fca Q>% rm'J
licvev drinU any
other. U'iij the bat
tydieajiC'
i/(f. i/j -* I[. fur a.
20 k4O/i- Chats -
tydUwicb
(LeUy* { fyctJzS'.,
l S l^«r.HMur«u!
*TL.
B
AUTHORITY
NOW READY.
THE HISTORICAL RECORDS
OP
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Part 2 op Vol. I.
Demy Bvo. 747 Pages.
Published in conjunction with
THE HISTORY OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FROM THE RECORDS.
Tuts volume is the first of a series in which it ia
intended to print in extenso the official and semi-
official despatches and other records which con-
stitute the Archives of the Colony. It is intended
to accompany the “History of New South Wales
from the Records,” Vol. II of which is now in
course of preparation.
The greatest c -e lias been taken to secure
copies of every document of importance in the
Record Office and Departments of State in London,
the British Museum, and similar institutions,
bearing on the History of New South Wales.
The volume now ready covers the period 1783
to 1792, and will be found to contain numerous
authentic documents of the greatest interest,
hitherto unpublished. It will be followed by
Part 1 as soon as possible after the receipt of
certain information, now on its way from Eng-
land, relating to Captain Cook.
As it is anticipated that the series will form the
material on which future historians must largely
depend, and will throw a great deal of light on a
period of our History of which little is known, it
has been decided to offer it to the public at the
following very low prices, viz. :
To Subscribers —
Cloth, Gs. Gd.; Half Morocco, 10s. 6d.
To Non-subscribers —
Cloth, 7s. 6d.; Half Morocco, 12s. Gd.
*#* Post free within the Colony.
' CHARLES POTTER,
Government Printer.
Government Printing Office,
12th May, 1892.
Now Ready
TH
YEAR
K
For 1892.
OF AUSTR A.LIA.
rpHE most valuable work published respecting Australian
matters, and should be in the hands of all who have
any interest in this growing nation.
The Eleventh Issue of this important work contains an
article on “THE PUBLIC DEBTS AND ASSETS OF
THE AUSTRALIAN COLONIES ;” also, an exhaustive
and highly-interesting article by the Honorable Alfred
Deakin, M.P., on “IRRIGATION.”
Other Features of the Work:—
Annual Rainfall
Statistics for the Year
Astronomical and Meteoro-
logical Intelligence
Postal, Money Order, and
Telegraphic Intelligence,
with Gazetteer
Railway Fares, Distances,
&c.
Government Departments
and Offices
Public Debts
Mineral Products
Ecclesiastical Intelligence
Education
Legal Information
Lands Act
Medical: Registered Practi-
tioners
Military and Naval Forces
Sporting Intelligence
Commercial Intelligence
with New Tariff, Draw
backs, &c.
Custom House Regulations
Manufactures & Industries
Banking, Insurance, and
Building Associations
With a quantity of other
valuable matter.
Everyone should read the article on “ Public Debts and
Assets of Australia.”
Price, 7s 6d. Per Post, 8s 4d. All Booksellers.
And at the Publishing Office, 374 GEORGESTBEET.
The Honorable Alfred Ueakin, M.L.A., says:—“The
Colonies have no better advertiser than ‘The Year Book
of Australasia.’ “
END to H. King, Photographer, George-
streefc, Sydney, for Cabinet Photo, of
DEEMING, taken since his arrest, Price, Is. Id.
post p^id.
A strange case concerning a lost infant is
reported from Hull (Eng.). In October last, tbe
plaintiff asserts, she sent her baby to church to be
christened, about six female neighbours being in
charge of the offspring. Their children also joined
the procession, and a strange woman, heavily
veiled, whom nobody could recognise, presently
attached herself to the caravan, and volunteered to
carry the precious infant. The result was that
the crowd came back with no infant, and presented
a slipshod report to the effect that they had
stopped to gossip with various other females, and
had “dropped in ’’somewhere for refreshments,
and when they dropped out again they became
aware that the strange woman and the baby had
both vanished. About three months later a girl
who had accompanied the party seized upon a
woman and an infant in the street, and gave them
b >th into custody as the missing pair. In court
bith women claimed the baby and tried to drag it
from each other, and both called evidence as to
the ownership, and both went into hysterics.
Moreover, it was asserted that the baby was the
living image of both women, and as nobody had
seen the kidnapper with her veil raised, and as
I the straggling caravan at the christening had been
taking refreshments as it went along, the identifi-
cation was very incomplete. Also, the defendant
had possessed an infant of her own, and if this
particular infant was not hers, then her own one
was altogether unaccounted for. Nevertheless,
the court finally adjudged the child to the plain-
tiff, and sent defendant to gaol for twelve months.
At latest advices she was fast going mad in prison,
and crying night and day for her lost daughter.
I There is no agitation for her release up to date,
and the feeling heart of England doesn’t sympa-
thise worth a cent.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling oil, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Brillian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very econom cal for general use; it is
the best softener and bcautifier of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Sizes 3s, 6</., Is., and 10*. 6 d.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONlAisapure and
fragrant toilet powder in three tints —white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is and 2s. 6d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
BRITISH PLATE
&SHEET cuss
oaanol
Tffl
Mil
Usi
MERCHANT
SIMMS
&
&
QV
S?
m
ARTISTIC
HOME DECORA TORS .
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .. .. Mr. Geo. llignold.
Acting Manager .. R. F. Keating.
Treasurer .. .. C. H. Bailey.
Under the Direction of the Australian Theatrical
Management Company.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS I
Miss Billie Barlow
in
“ LITTLE JACK SHEPPARD.”
QRITERION THEATRE
Under the Management of Mr. Brough and Mr. Boucicault.
Treasurer .... .... W. H. Wallace.
Doors Open at 7. Commence at 8. Carriages at 10.30.
GRAND REVIVAL ! GRAND REVIVAL !
(for a limited number of nights)
OF
“ D I P L O HVI A. O
Interpreted by
THE BROUGH-BOUCICAULT COMPANY
In active Preparation—
“ THE COUNTRY GIRL.”
PRICES—Ss,, 35., 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan open at Nicholson and Co.’s Music Warehouse
Theatre royal
Lessee ... ... Mr. S. Lazar.
Treasurer ... Mr. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
LAST NIGHT of the BLAND HOLT SEASON.
LAST NIGHT ! LAST NIGHT !
of Sims and Pettit’s Drama,
Loudon Bay by Day.
Prices—Dress Circle, 5s ; Stalls, 3s; Family Circle, Is
XLa X.
mo THEATRICAL MANAGERS AND OTHERS.—The
J- figure “ALT,” with Latest Improvements, is now
open for Engagements here and elsewhere, Novelty for
World’s Pair. Address: 03 Botany Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney. [Extract from the Era, November 13, 1880: —
The Automaton “ALI” during the lost month has been
on view at Collins’s Music Hall, Islington. A new Auto-
maton which the Inventor, A. De Lacy, has termed
“ ALI,” following custom immortal; the figure is dressed
in a turban and Oriental costume, it is worked by elabo-
rate wire works, the motive power being electricity. The
movements are natural and lifelike, and paradoxical
as it may seem it has not the appearance of being an
Automaton. “ALI” turns the leaves of the Koran,
becomes warlike and goes through sword exercise, plays
tambourine and bells, and altogether completely succeeds
in engrossing the attention of the audience, in interesting
them, and winning loud applause. The whole network of
wire, by which the movements of the figure are deter-
mined, is exposed by the Inventor, Mr. De Lacy, who
must have taken years to have brought his mechanical
figure to perfection, *
FOR SALE
BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
At Reduced Rates before Stocktaking.
EURNITURE, CHAIRS,
BEDSTEADS, BEDDING,
WIRE MATTRESSES,
KAPOK, HORSEHAIR and FEATHERS,
CARPETS, LINOLEUMS,
RUGS, MATS and MATTING,
BLINDS, CURTAINS, TABLECLOTHS,
BLANKETS, SHEETS and QUILTS,
READY-MADE MOSQUITO CURTAINS,
TIN SCARBOROUGH TRUNKS,
ENGLISH and GERMAN HOLLOWWARE
(In bulk packages and open stock),
STOVES, PERAMBULATORS and AXES,
BASKETS & AMERICAN HARDWARE,
FURNISHING IRONMONGERY,
TABLE CUTLERY and PLATED WARE,
TABLE GLASS,
CHINA and EARTHENWARE,
LOUNGES,
GARDEN and VERANDAH SEATS,
CAFE TABLES, MARBLE TOPS,
(Best Makers),
TOILET GLASSES, TOILET SETS
AND
PIER GLASSES.
For Designs and Prices, see our New Illustrated
Catalogue for 1892.
Telephone, No. 66. Established 1860.
John Lawler & Sons,
GOB George Street, Sydney.
Government
m:
Notioes.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, May 18, 1892.
r BLENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
J_ SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1.
Erection of Building for Naval Stores, Garden
Island (the iron columns required to be made
in the colony)
Bridge, Snowy River, at Jindabyne
Construction of Footways, Lismore Bridge, Wil-
son’s Creek
Bridge, Stockyard Creek, road Cathcart to Pam-
bula (fresh tenders)
Bridge over Mill Creek, road Queanbeyan to
Uriarra
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Wollombi
Additions, &c., Police Buildings, Newcastle
Fixing Stained Glass Windows, Medical School,
University of Sydney
Bridges No. 1 and 2, Burril Creek, road Stroud to
Tinonee, Site No. 1
Bridge, Burril Creek, road Stroud to Tinonee,
Site No. 2
Supply, &c., of Iron Steam Punt, for Hunter
River
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Temora to Coota-
mundra
Painting,.Repairs, &c., office of Inspector-General
of Police, Sydney
Additions, Lockup, Newcastle
Alterations to Masonry. Walls, &c., and Erection
of Iron Superstructure, Lennox Bridge
Penrith
Cementing Verandah Floors, Hospital for the
Insane, Gladesville
Repairs, &c., Ormonde House, Paddington
Shelter Shed, &c., Admiralty House, North
Sydney
Completion of Jetty at Gerringong
Bridge, Brooker’s Creek, road Kangaloon to
Macquarie Pass
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15.
Bridge in Approaches to Mehi River and Broad’
water Bridges, at Balo-street, Moree
Erection of New Wing, Goulburn Gaol
Bridge, Kundibakh Creek, road Stroud to Tinonee,
Site No. 3
Bridge, KundibakhOreek, road Stroud to Tinonee,
Site No. 4
Bridge, Kundibakh Creek, road Stroud to Tinonee,
Site No. 5
Completion of Sydney Hospital. Plans, &c., may
be seen at the office of J. Kirkpatrick, Esq.,
architect, 105 Pitt-street
Bridge, Snake’s Creek, road Home Rule to
Mud gee
Bridge, Worley’s Creek, road Bullock Wharf to
Upper Mangrove Creek
Bridge, Gutzell’s Creek, road Mangrove Creek to
Wiseman’s Ferry
Bridge, Breakfast Creek, road Mangrove Creek to
Wiseman’s Ferry
Bridge, Burrowa River, at Tangmangaroo
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Enston
Erection of Stable, Fencing, &c., Court and
Watch House, Jugiong
Repairs, &e., Royal Mint, Sydney
Bridges No. 1 and 2, Dingo Creek, Cameron’s
Crossing
Bridge, Kiangiara Creek, road Yass to Burrowa
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Cassino to Lawrence
Laying on Gas, &c., Benevolent Asylum, Liver-
pool
Construction of a Wharf at Hexham, Hunter
River
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29.
Construction of Line of Railway from Coota-
mundra to Temora (plans may be seen on and
after the 20th May.)
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Goodooga
Additions Lockup Gaol, Casino
Bridge, Paroo River, at Waanaring
Painting, &e., Iron Railings, Hyde, Cook and
Phillip Park s, Syd n ey
Additions, Post and Telegraph Office, Cowra
AdW'-Uns, Post and Telegraph Office, Coonamble
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 10.
Supply of Ironwork, &c., and Construction of
Approaches and Bridge, Coldstream River,
near Grafton
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Waterbury Watch Co.’s
Repair Depot,
56 MARGARET-STREET, SYDNEY.
Note the address.
COLGATE’S CASHMERE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap is made with the utmost care from
materials selected with the
GREATEST REGARD FOR PURITY,
And the soothing and beneficial effect which they
impart to the skin and the complexion.
FIFTY PER CENT.
of the comfort of shaving depends on the soap used.
Try COLGATE’S DEMULCENT SHAVING
SOAP.
For the handkerchief, no preparation can com-
pare with
CASHMERE BOUQUET PERFUME.
Madame Sara Bernhardt writes : “Colgate’s
Soaps and Perfumes are Exquisite.”
Miss Myra Kemble, writing of Colgate’s Cash-
mere Bouquet, says: “It is the most delicious
perfume in the world, and when used in conjunc-
tion with Cashmere Bouquet Toilet Soap is per-
fection itself.”
The name and trade mark of Colgate & Co.
on each article assures purchasers of superior and
uniform quality. Their various exhibits obtained
the HIGHEST AWARDS at London, 1887;
Newcastle, 1887 ; Ostend, 1888 ; and
GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1889.
Sold by all leading chemists and perfumers.
TOMBSTONES ON WHEELS'
“Jarvies,” and carriers are proverbial for their
ready wit and gift of repartee. This fact found
an illustration a few days since in a little incident
that occurred on the Old South Head Road. A
pedlar who officered a rather mysterious looking
conveyance was urging his jaded steed along the
highway, when he overtook an itinerant brother,
and the following conversation ensued ; “ Hallo 1
what do you carry in that craft, mate?” “Drugs
and medicines,” growled pedlar number one.
“ Then you’d better keep ahead of me, ’’ was the
facetious rejoinder, “ I’m loaded with tomb-
stones.”
The joke was a grim one, though singularly
enough we not infrequently hear stories in which
death, drugs, and the doctor are associated as
intimate connections. Yet when disease or
accident occurs, a man’s first thought, almost, is
to send for the doctor, excepting when the mis-
fortune or malady is of a character such as can be
successfully treated without medical assistance.
A sprained ancle, a severe bruise or burn, or a
ricked back, may be easily and effectually treated
by any one with the aid of St. Jacobs Oil. Its use
is also most valuable in cases of rheumatism,
neuralgia, sciatica, and numerous other affections
of the muscles and nerves. In the cure of any of
these complaints it completely supersedes medical
skill, and comes to the top victorious when the
patient has been “ given up ” by the doctor.
St. Jacobs Oil is sold by chemists and dealers
everywhere. Beware of worthless imitations.
DOM ESTIC ECONOMY.
The art of economising is one that, like all
others, may be cultivated. Economy does not
imply “pinching” or niggardliness. There is a
wide difference between true economy and the
spurious quality that demands the denial of
reasonable luxuries and the pleasures of a comfort-
able existence. It is the miser who afflicts him-
self, and sins against Nature, in order that he
may hoard up wealth —most probably to be spent
in prodigality after his death. Prudence and a
judicious management of capital—the avoidance
of reckless or unnecessary expenditure are
principal amongst the elements of true economy.
As a practical illustration let it be assumed that a
man wishes to buy a watch. What he needs to
look to is, firstly, that the watch is a good time-
keeper ; secondly, that it has a presentable
appearance; and thirdly (the above qualities
being undeniably assured), that the price is
reasonably within his means. Now, there is
but one class of watches in the world that fits
this description, and that is the Waterbury. The
Waterburys are par excellence “ the people’s time-
keepers,” a fact that every wearer of them cheer-
fully acknowledges. They are manufactured to
suit all incomes and every class of purchaser.
Series “E,” the old long-wind favorite, a tho-
roughly reliable and serviceable watch, costs only
13s. 6d. Series “J” (gent’s size), and “L” (ladies’
size), are retailed at 225. 6d., and, amongst other
improvements, are fitted with short-winding and
stem-setting appliances and enamelled dials.
More highly finished still are the latest additions
to the Waterbury family, series “ K ” and “N,”
for gentlemen and ladies respectively. These can
be obtained in nickel, sterling silver, or rolled
gold (with 15 years’ guarantee). In appearance,
finish, and utility they are incomparable, while
they are offered at prices that must astonish every-
body.


Box 1034, Gr.B.O.
CONSIGNMENTS OF THE MOST CHOICE GOODS RECEIVED WEEKIY BY
W. <&c SONS,
Manufacturers of WAR, PRIZE and OTHER MEDALS, BADGES, CHECKS, ORNAMENTS, kic.,
€0**1. SPOON
SILVER am ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR
PRESENTATIONS, SHIP, CLUB, HOTEL FAMILY USE.
03 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at MELBOURNE and EDINBURGH. Manufactory: SHEFFIELD.
EVERY ARTICLE WARRANTED TO GIVE ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
Teleplxone O' 72 *
FD
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.0.5., Em,
201
Macquarie Street North
(Opposite Parliament House)
Syciney.
201
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHROMIC,
NERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals,
jji , 'dical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
Qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation’ singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness ’groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. Cd. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
SOI Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
ELASTIC STOCKINGS.
Kneecaps, Anklets, Rubber Bandages, Chest Ex-
panders for Contracted Shoulders.
Ladies’ Abdominal, Electric and Galvanic
Belts.
Enemas, Syringes, Uterine Supports, and Preven-
tive Pessaries. Ear Trumpets and Conversation
Tubes.
Trusses for Rupture.
The most difficult ruptures effectually treated.
Artificial Legs, Arms and Hands,
with all the latest improvements, made specially
to order—fit and durability guaranteed.
GUY ATT & CO., 495 GEORGE-SL'., Sydney.
N.B. —An experienced lady in attendance.
Established 1853.
REMEDY FREE
CUBE]
»
SELF,
An old Physician, retired from
practice, had placed in his hands, by an
East India Missionary, the formula of
a Simple Vegetable Remedy for the
speedy and permanent Cur# of Con-
sumption, Acrvous hflnlity,
R.ost iVlanliood, and all 'Wast-
ing l Com pin ints. Having tested
its wonderful curative powers in thou-
sands of cases, and desiring to relieve
human suffering, I will send, of
Chur};’**, this valuable recipe, with
full dilections for preparing and using.
ADDRESS (with stamps)
R. A . CHASE,
AVSIBAIIAK Hill- S» lIX GS,
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYDNEY,
First-Class Hotel, x Select and Quiet.
Charges from 10s. per day.
F. BAUER PROPRIETOR.
Hotel,
Edward and Mary Streets, BRISBANE.
Mbs. MOXLEY’S compliments, and calls public
Retention to this old-established and popular
Hotel, which has been thoroughly renovated and
improved to meet the progress of the times.
Superior Commercial Room and Sitting Booms,
First Quality Table. Charges Moderate-
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
FD
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia— T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
498 8c 500 GEORGE STREET.
A.ustral Clotliiers.
T/tADSMARK
n~
Vit
Gent.’s Cape Overcoats—2s/- to 47/6.
Gent.’s Chesterfield Overcoats —15/6 to 30/-.
Gent.’s “Austral” Business Suits 27/6
to 50/-.
Gent.’s D. T. Black Parramatta Cape Water-
proof Coat-30/- to 55/- (sewn seams, and
guaranteed).
OUR CELEBRATED
H.R.1l WHITE SHIRTS
(made by Welch, Margetson & Co.)
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.
25/6, 38/-, 37'6, 42/-, 45/-,
the Half Dozen.
Gent’s Silk Umbrellas 8/0 to 45/-.
MERCERS,
HATTERS, and JUVENILE CLOTHIERS.
Bass’ I*ale A.le
MASS
lßade
G-uixiness’ Bsitra Stout
FOSTER'S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PUKE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TEEATSD.
AGENTS:
Ealchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.”
o
mi
jgp- NEWEST INVENTION GREATEST NOVELTY.
PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM CORSET
Patented in England and on the Continent.
Will not Split In the Seams nor Tear in the Fabric.
Exquisite Model. Perfect Comfort. Guaranteed Wear.
The Queen says:—“These Corsets are a new departure. The material is cut on the
cross, and the component parts being also arranged diagonally, the seams have no strain.
They’ are admirably modelled, exquisitely neat and strong, and the workmanship all
that could be desired.”
Gold Medal, New Zealand Exhibition, 1883.
Gold Medal (Highest Award for Corsets), London
International Exhibition, 1884.
Latest Award! Gold Medal, International
Exhibition, Edinburgh, 1886.
CAUTION.— Beware of worthless imitations.
Every genuine Y & N Corset is stamped
“Y & N PATENT DIAGONAL SEAM
CORSET, No. 116,” in oval.
O OUDM £ o r
T&C
Sold by all Drapers’ and Ladies’ Outfitters in the United Kingdom and Colonies.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
ggr mining, financial & GENERAL mercantile intelligence “d
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
* ■ '■ vs.-. ■■■
tv
■
D.
S ft ' SS - "V * «,» .s,v
mmm
Tins first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Rcfurnisned, possesses the Largest and most Elegant
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled fur comfort and attention to
visitors. * 4®’ Tariff, 10s. ft/, per day. Special Kates for Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - Proprietors.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the establishment).
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR."
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
IST" Sole Agents:
CRAIG «5e AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 683 George Street, Sydney.
“PEOPLE WE’VE SMILED WITH.”
JAMES GR AKT T,
Proprietor,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
With Compliments.
Tasmania. Messrs, eitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
MONK ALE
Finest in the Market
ASK POE
MONK ALE
DANIELL’S
“ IMPERIAL ”
PRIVATE FAMILY HOTEL
b-r-i-s-b-a.-w-b.
%
The Most Comfortable Hotel South of the
Equator.
it3L PORTER is in Attendance on all Steamers
and Trains. TEH
Letters and Telegrams receive the prompt
attention of
C. H. DANIELL.
Dinner Parties and Wedding Breakfasts catered
for at the Hotel.
■'VT OTICE. —Adv<" ,: nts for Current Week
J. cannot be received 'Ell than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.


BR
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
s
F
DF
or,
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
49. Call Me Back Again.
253. Starlight Nell.
267. Than You’ll Remember Me.
298. White Wings.
410. Who’s that Calling so Sweet.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
427. A Little Beach in an Orchard grew
528. Bogie Man.
566. Gipsy Countess (vocal duet)
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver in F.
569. Maggie Murphy s Home.
PIANOFORTE,
473. Athalie March. Mendelssohn.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively
THE HOLBORN MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, 8.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjoin 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 1845] TRADE SUPPLIED. [Est. 1845
SMITH BEOTHEES
(F. I!. Smith),
39 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Customs, Shipping, Forwarding, Commission,
Insurance, Buying and General Agents.
AGENCIES :—Verco Bros. &; Co. Patent Roller Flour.
Anderson’s Dunedin Oatmeal. Mount Cotton Sugar
Plantation. Reid’s N.E. Salmon-Mullet, Caldwell’sN.S. W.
and Victorian Wines. “The F. B. Wheeler Co.” “ Bal-
loon ” Brand Baking Powder. “Cup Blend” Tea. Pitt,
Brown & Co.’s Teas.
HE SYDNEY PAPER MILLS COM-
Having been informed that their second quality
Brown Wrapping Paper is being sold as their
best, their labels and marks being removed,
purchasers are cautioned against same. Their
first quality is equal to the Best English.
53 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Brown, Grey and News I ~ ' • f k
Brown and Grey Paper Bags \ A lways m stock.
T. B. HALL & CO.’S
& S T O XT T.
KTotice
PANY, LIVERPOOL.
BOAR’S
HEAD
BRAND.
I BADE MARK,
BOAR’S
HEAD
BRAND.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
W. R. DRAPE,
SIITO6K anil 15'gO'gF^.
(Member Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
Office-21 BRISBANE STOCK EXCHANGE.
6W COMMISSION ONLY, is*
LATEST MARKETS on APPLICATION PROMPT.
PBBD CO WEJj U, Ju n r.,
Stock and Share Broker,
GYMPIE QUEENSLAND,
Wire, lo R. JT . JE* .t-C. X G JES,
—Stock and Share Broker —
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
ix. r». s a. ]\r h: s y,
Stock and Share Broker,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
q 11, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarine !
pgr° The Lightsino Moustache Producer. 1E&
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. od., Post Free.
CKAIG A AITKIIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
JOHN ROBERTSON & SON’S
FINE OLD
Scotch
WhiskV
Dundee.
nen
"Here'S 10 -*’
si/
TRADE
MARK
[argest
Sale in Australia.
SOLE AGENTS:
Allt’s Brewing and Wine and Spirit Co.
(Limited).
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
AH prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Seild for List -
A Bathurst (N.S. W.) gag: “He don’t
know enough to take his coat off at tucker-time.”
The vessel that brought “Mad Fred.”
Deeming to Australia itself bore a mad name—
Kaiser Wilhelm 11.
“ When we understand what animals say,
I don’t suppose we shall be particularly flattered
by their opinions of us,” suggests G. R. Sims.
A Contemporary Heview writer reckons
up the Emperor of Germany as a man governed
by “ the spirit of crass self-advertising egotism.”
Advertisement in a Perth (W.A.) morning
paper :
("IHINESE, Coolies, Cooks, Black-boys and other
merchandise indented.
A Georgetown (N.Q.) paper boasts that the
town honoured Governor Norman with “a down-
right honest sort of a banquet, not a toddy, shoddy
banquet with a little salad backed up with a little
corned-beef.” We know the kind of thing—scrub
turkey, kangaroo, pickled alligator, stuffed emu,
roast hedgehog, soused snake, grilled gohanna,
minced lizards, bullock, salt mutton, sucking-pig,
wild boar, Chow-chow d la pigtail, kookaburra
giblets, dugong haras, and sardines ; washed down
with 30 o.p. methylated bug-juice, “jump-up”
diluted with rum, concentrated “ oil-of-bluestone”
(the famous baecy-and-kerosene blend), “strike-
me-dead ” whisky, and liquid dynamite.
Nicholas Zarouboff, a Russian “ secret
service officer ” of many years’ experience, is
spending his old age in writing his biography.
Zarouboff preceded the late Czar on his visit to
London, to keep an eye on any Polish exiles or
other malcontents who might want to pot that
potentate, and had nearly a hundred of them
“removed out of the way” as a precautionary
measure. How they were removed isn’t definitely
stated, but it would appear that they were arrested
by the obliging London police force on all
manner of charges, and either sentenced to short
terms in gaol, or kept under remand until the
good, old Czar was safe on his way home again.
Zarouboff’s best performance, however, was
some years afterwards. Two Russian “suspects”
a man and a woman, had fled to London, the
woman taking with her some papers which the
Russian authorities particularly desired to recover.
Zarouboff followed them, and hiring four mus-
cular bullies from a private enquiry office, he
drove down in open daylight to their hotel.
There he assumed an official aspect, announced to
the manager that he was a detective armed witli
an extradition warrant, and after exhibiting a
document covered with Slavonic hieroglyphics he
walked up to the room where the two “suspects ”
were at breakfast. They could speak no English,
and their wild I’emonstrances in Russian and
Polish were set down as the howls of two escaped
lunatics. Zarouboff and Ids party handcuffed the
pair, gagged them by shoving a piece of wood in the
mouth of each, paid the bill, carried the prisoners
downstairs, threw them into a cab, and drove
away. Then the active officer took them to his
own house and poured brandy into them till they
were both drunk, after which they were placed on
board a steamer and conveyed to St. Petersburg,
where they both vanished, probably to Siberia or
else among the damp dungeons of the fortress of
St. Peter and Paul. On the voyage the two
prisoners tried vociferously to explain how they
had been kidnapped, but Zarouboff simply in-
formed the captain that they were a pair of
escaped maniacs and that he was their authorised
keeper, and after that nobody listened to them.
“In England,” says the affable Nicholas, “you
may seize upon anybody, carry him anywhere,
and do anything with him, only by declaring
without a shadow of evidence that he is a
lunatic.”
“Bouey” was the principal converted
nigger of a certain N.Q. town. He was an in-
valuable darkey who spoke good English, and
never got drunk, and was the right hand man of
the local publican—in short, he was a wondrous
specimen of exotic civilisation. In the same town
lived John Stalker, caretaker of the local Botanic
Gardens, and a friend and patron of the elevated
aboriginal. Stalker was agent for a number of
Southern museums, and when he got an order for
any tropical curiosities he generally passed tne
commission on to Boney, and when the article was
forthcoming he paid that deputy with two sticks
of tobacco, and sent in his own bill for
£5. The scheme worked well till one day an
order arrived for an aboriginal skull —it was
wanted to complete an unfinished skeleton, and
Stalker was requested to use the utmost dispatch.
Therefore he impressed on the faithful Boney that
the required specimen must be on hand by Mon-
day, and Boney cheerfully undertook to be
punctual. On Sunday he invited “Combo,” the
magistrate’s nigger, to come out fishing with him,
and that lost, misguided heathen went and was
never seen again. But late on Sunday night
Boney trotted cheerfully into Stalker’s house
with a bag hanging from his shoulder.
Out of the bag he extracted a gore-stained
head which Thing of Horror he deposited on
Stalker’s table right among his supper. The care-
taker of the local Botanic Gardens looked at it
for just one instant, and with a yell he climbed
madly over the saved aboriginal in his haste to
get out through the door. By-and-bye he yelled
himself out and came back. The Awful Object
was still there among his victuals, and with
chattering teeth he asked Boney where it
came from. That lost native actually laughed.
“Me bin take Combo ’long fishin,” he ex-
plained cheerfully; “cut him head off.” Then
Stalker seized Boney in a frantic grasp and
howled softly in his ear that if he didn’t get
out of the door on the instant, and run for his life
till he got right to the other end of the continent,
and change his name, and repent of his sin, and
never go out in the day-time for the rest of his
life, he would assuredly be taken and hanged, and
damned after being hanged, and be pursued by
debbil-debbil for ever and ever. Whereupon
Boney awoke to a sense of his danger, and not
even waiting to collect the tobacco due to him, he
rushed out into the night and was never seen again
in those parts. And when ho was gone, Stalker
carefully boiled Combo’s head till the flesh came
off, and bis bill for “One skull, .£5,” was paid in
due course. The other part of Combo was never
found.
How to Grow Rich.—lnvest in land at
Perth, W.A. Plans from Intercolonial Invest-
ment Co., Limited, 30U Pitt-street, Sydney.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
AN INNOVATION.
A SAC SUIT from £1 10s. Write for Patterns and
System of Measurement. J. S. MANVVARINO, Brisbane.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
You can obtain from B. Mountcastlc & Sons, of
Albert-street, Brisbane, goods of a similar class to
that retailed by the leading West-end hosiers.
DEEMING.— The latest authentic Cabinet
Portrait, taken since his arrest. Price, Is.
H. King, Photographer, George-street, Sydney.
Why Suffer One Moment
From Torturing Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
rest and sleep, speedily heals the CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifier, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cure every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
S£S~“ All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustra-
tions, and 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap, 25c.:
Cuticura Resolvent, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U.S. A .
).
ccx
VO J.
))J
(d
m
Bad Complexions,
pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and
oily skin and hands are prevented and
cured by that greatest of all Skin
Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other
skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of
toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive of inflammation
and clogging of the pores, the cause of most complexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
BE YOUB, OWN DOCTOR!
«)—OOO
pn the depth of winter, if you are subject to Colds or Chill, a specially good thing
to keep in the house is a Bottle of WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS. It is a world-famed
stimulant —helps Digestion, prevents Nervous Exhaustion and Renews Vigor.
m
©
FD
r
a*
&
s«»'
■^lo
W
V fc-
~V
Ih£
?c
m
m.
w.
JjP'V GoOOfoT^k
If you PURCHASE a WHOLE BOTTLE you may find a £l-Noto. Over 3000
have already been found in Large Bottles.
3\k-
«
THE LATEST TRIUMPH OF ELECTRICAL SCIENCE.
i S'
“ A Useful and
Beautiful Inven-
tion, which WILL
BE UNIVERSALLY
APPRECIATED.”
Retail, 3s 6d each.
9
~T
A
“ Since I used the Electric
Hair Curler my hair has
gained in strength and lustre,
and crimps and curls as if by
magic lam determined that
all my trien .Is ahull use it.'
Unsolicited testimonials, couched in the most eulogistic terms, have been
received from all parts of the world by the inventor of this ingenious, time-saving,
and altogether admirable piece of mechanism.
15y its aid the hair, beard, or moustache can be curled in any style in two
minutes. It produces any form desired by ladies wearing their hair in the fashion-
able “loose and fluffy” mode. A beautiful article; handle of rosewood, other
part nickel-plated.
Entirely harmless to the hair. Saves time and trouble, and never fails to
curl or crimp in the most graceful, beautiful, and artistic stylo.
Ladies who wear crimps, or other forms of false hair, will find the Electric
Curler an article of the greatest utility. It is simple in its operation, and can be
used by everybody with entire success the first time. It has become indispensable,
and within a short time almost universally adopted by the ladies of England and
America.
Can now be obtained
through all Chemists and Per-
fumers, Ac., in the Colonies.
Wholesale Agents, Messrs.
EtLioi Bugs., Sydney and
Brisbane ; and Felton, Grim wale A Co., Melbourne.
ELECTRIC CURLER COMPANY, 32 Snow Hill, London, E C.
FD


Miscellaneous.
BUCK'S
3E3CO"fc©l,
Corner I’ITT * MARKET STREETS,
SYDKTEY.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS.
!oiis,o6 wu '' s * Paints:
29 George st
FD
FD
FDF
BathurstSx
DF
WILL SHORTLY BE PLTBLISHED.
"TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM,"
Price, ONE SHILLING ; per post, 1/3.
ALL AGENTS.
ONE
GUINEA
Per Annum secures a saving of 21 to 20 per cent,
on your Yearly Expenditure.
SECURES
FOIt YOU
Free Medical Advice,
Free Legal Advice.
£5O Accidental Insurance.
Send for particulars to
(pe United purchasers’ Discount (Co.,
3S-44 Carrington Street,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SUMMERS BROWN, Director.
j/evei^
f u lMi
Grinding
S,Op)s
* Pleasure tq us 5
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Razors excel-
lent."
KROPP^B
REA| - german hollow-ground ®
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
£ n -?i lsl Depot, 61,
Frith Street, Soho
| square, London, w.
Drapery.
rahP 5
SOUND SLEEP
in Winter and Summer is
induced by
Pure Wool Night Clothing.
' Dr. Jaeger’s
Specialities
for Infants, Children and
Adults.
The JAEGER COMPANY’S
Moods guaranteed absolutely pure. Recommended by the
Medical Faculty. Full particulars of
Er. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co. (Ltd.),
(wholesale only),
9 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or
314 Flinders Lane West, Melbourne,
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility
PEICE 3d.,
In Stamps.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
COMPLETE TREATISE
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints
Price Is.
In Stamps.
DFD
,00-
M.A., M. 8., &c., k,
THE WELL-KNOWN MEDICAL AUTHOR AND THE INVENTOR OP:—DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, FOR THE CERTAIN CURB OP NERVOUS DEBILITY (Price, One
Guinea) DR. KELLY’S INTERMEDIATE BATTERY BELT, WITH SUSPENSORY ATTACH-
MENT ; DR. KELLY’S HERCULES LIFE RENEWER (VERY POWERFUL), WITH SUSPENSORY
ATTACHMENT; DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC LIVER AND KIDNEY PADS FOR THE CURE OP
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC KNEE JOINT AND ELBOW PADS. FOR THE IMMEDIATE
RELIEF OP
STIFFNESS IN THE JOINTS, RHEUMATISM, &c.
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC CHEST PAD FOR THE CURE OP
LUNG DISEASES,
DR. KELLY’S HOSPITAL MEDICAL BATTERIES, RANGING IN PRICE FROM ONE TO
TEN GUINEAS, ACCORDING TO STRENGTH AND SIZE.
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC POCKET BATTERY.
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC VARICOCELE TRUSS WILL
CURE VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION.
DE. KELLY MAY BE CONSULTED FREE OF COST, BY SUFFERERS FEOM
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN COMPLAINTS.
DR. KELLY’S REPUTATION IS SO THOROUGHLY ESTABLISHED THAT IT WILL
ONLY BE NECESSARY FOR HIM TO INTIMATE THAT HE IS PRACTISING AS A
SPECIALIST TO BE APPRECIATED AS A BENEFACTOR TO SUFFERING MANKIND. AS
THE GREATER PORTION OP THE NEW SOUTH WALES PUBLIC IS AWARE, DR. KELLY
IS A LEGALLY QUALIFIED AND REGISTERED PHYSICIAN, AND HAS BY PAR THE
LARGEST PRACTICE IN THE COLONIES. MANY PERSONS AT A DISTANCE, HOWEVER,
ARB UNAWARE OP HIS GREAT SUCCESS, AS, HITHERTO, HE HAS REFRAINED PROM
ADVERTISING. HENCE, TO WIDEN THE SPHERE OP HIS USEFULNESS, HE HAS
DETERMINED, BY MEANS OP ADVERTISING, TO MAKE HIMSELF KNOWN IN REMOTE
DISTRICTS WHERE HIS REPUTATION MAY NOT YET HAVE TRAVELLED. AS THE
QUESTION MAY ARISE, WHY DOES SO EMINENT A PHYSICIAN AS DR. KELLY FIND
IT NECESSARY TO ADVERTISE, HE MAY REPLY TO ONE AND ALL AS FOLLOWS
IP THERE IS A PERSON ON EARTH TO BE PITIED IT IS HE WHO IS OBLIGED
TO ASSOCIATE WITH HIS FELLOW BEINGS WHILE HIS MIND IS CONSTANTLY
HARASSED AND TORTURED BY THE CONSCIOUSNESS OP
WHAT MUST INEVITABLY FOLLOW.
HE LOOKS HAGGARD AND SHEEPISH. HE IS NERVOUS IN PUBLIC, AND EXTREMELY
GIRLISH AND BACKWARD IN LADIES’ SOCIETY. THE VICTIM OF THIS, THE MOST
DANGEROUS OP ALL VICES, IP NOT RELIEVED, SOON REACHES A STATE WHICH MUST
END IN LIFE-LONG MISERY. HE MUST ULTIMATELY SINK TO. THE LOWEST STAGE
OP DEGRADATION AND SHAME. DR. KELLY MAINTAINS THAT THE PHYSICIAN WHO
HAS THE POWER TO CURE, AND REMAINS SILENT, IS GUILTY OP AN UNPARDONABLE
SIN OP OMISSION. PERSONS WHO READ HIS GREAT WORK ON THIS SUBJECT WILD
BE SHOWN THE INEVITABLE RESULT OP THE BAD HABITS, AND IN MOST
INSTANCES SUFFICIENTLY EARLY IN LIFE TO ENABLE THEM
TO SEE THEIR FOLLY
BEFORE ANY DISEASE HAS TAKEN POSSESSION OP THEM. THE BOOK WILL ALSO
SHOW THEM CLEARLY
HOW TO CURE THE DISEASE WITHOUT
THE ASSISTANCE OF PHYSICIAN OR CHEMIST.
MANY PERSONS WONDER WHY THEIR MEMORY IS NOT SO RETENTIVE, AND THEIR
GENERAL INTELLECT NOT SO CLEAR AND STRONG AS THEY FORMERLY WERE.
DR. KELLY’S BOOK WILL EXPLAIN THE CAUSE IN PLAIN AND SIMPLE LANGUAGE.
THEREFORE, EVEN THOUGH YOU BE FREE PROM DISEASE, SEND FOR THIS GREAT
MEDICAL WORK, THAT YOU MAY BE ENABLED TO ADVISE OTHERS AFTER PERUSING
ITS PAGES. VERY FREQUENTLY THIS MAY BE DONE BEFORE ANY GREAT HARM
HAS TAKEN PLACE.
SEE HIS PALE AND SALLOW FACE, UPON WHICH
DISEASE HAS LEFT ITS MARKS.
AMONG WHICH ARE
ACNE (FLESH WORMS), PIMPLES (ESPECIALLY ON THE FOREHEAD),
DARK CIRCLES ROUND THE EYES, SLUGGISH PUPILS, AND EYES
WITHOUT LUSTRE, HE HAS A HAGGARD, TROUBLED LOOK, HIS
MANNER IS ECCENTRIC, LISTLESS, SHY AND EASILY CONFUSED,
HIS MOVEMENTS ARE SHUFFLING AND UNCERTAIN, AND
BETRAY A MIND ILL AT EASE, HIS MENTAL OPERATIONS ARE
ERRATIC, HE IS EMBARRASSED, AWKWARD, AND ACTS WITHOUT
ANY FIXED PURPOSE, HE IS ABSENT-MINDED, AND GIVEN TO
REVERIE AND DESPONDENCY.
IF YOU ARE DOUBTFUL AS TO WHETHER YOU REQUIRE MEDICAL ASSISTANCE,
YOU SHOULD WRITE TO THE DOCTOR WITHOUT DELAY.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS:—
AM I SUBJECT TO PALPITATION OF THE HEART, FLUSHES OF
HEAT, DRYNESS OF THE SKIN, PALE, SALLOW COMPLEXION,
RESTLESSNESS AT NIGHT, A DESPAIR OF RECOVERY, ANXIETY
WITHOUT CAUSE, FEAR OF DEATH, TENDENCY TO SUICIDE, LACK
OF MENTAL CAPACITY, NERVOUS IRRITABILITY, NERVOUS PROS-
TRATION, SLUGGISH LIVER, SYMPTOMS OF INDIGESTION, HEAVY
SLEEPY FEELING AFTER MEALS, PILES, PAINS IN THE CHEST,
COLD SHUDDERS, LOSS OF MEMORY, BAD TASTE IN THE MOUTH,
FOUL BREATH, COATED TONGUE, HACKING COUGH, EXPECTORA-
TION, SINGING NOISES IN THE HEAD AND EARS, COSTIVENESS OR
IRREGULARITY OF THE BOWELS, SLEEPY FEELING DURING THE
DAY, PAINS IN THE BACK, SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES, WEAK OR
SORE EYES, VIOLENT TEMPER, LOSS OF AMBITION, EPILEPSY,
FITS, OR SHORTNESS OF BREATH?
DR KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK IS NOT A SMALL PAMPHLET, BUT A LARGE 'BOOK,
rONTAINING MANY PAGES OF PRESCRIPTION AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS,
AND IS WRITTEN IN SIMPLE LANGUAGE, WHICH CAN BE UNDERSTOOD BY ALL.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY WILL CURE
NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
IS GUARANTEED TO CURE ANY CASE OP NERVOUS DEBILITY. THIS EXCELLENT
APPARATUS, WHICH HAS BEEN SO FREQUENTLY TESTED AND RECOMMENDED BY
THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, WILL BE FORWARDED TO ANY ADDRESS ON RECEIPT
OF A POST-OFFICE ORDER FOB £1 Is. PERSONS SENDING FOR THE ELECTRIC GIRDLE
SHOULD DESCRIBE ALL SYMPTOMS, AND THUS ENABLE THE DOCTOR TO SELECT A
GIRDLE OP APPROPRIATE STRENGTH. TO ENSURE SAFETY, ALL LETTERS CON-
WK TAINING MONEY SHOULD BE REGISTERED.
PFRSONS CONSULTING DR. KELLY MAY RELY ON SECRECY AND PERFECTLY PURE
r REMEDIES FREE FROM MERCURY OR OTHER DANGEROUS INGREDIENTS.
ALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, &c., &c , ARE FORWARDED, SECURELY PACKED FREE
FROM OBSERVATION, TO ANY PART OP THE WORLD.
ADDRESS- -t
DRAW. h. kelly,
112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
N 8.--DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF
HIS LETTERS PATENT.
THIS PAPER SHOULD BE MENTIONED WHEN WRITING.
Shipping.
E
NGLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
ffOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI'
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government of
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Oceanian
Polynesian
Commander,
.. Fiaschi
.. L. Boulard ..
Leave Sydney! Leave Mel-
at 11 a.ra. ib° urne^P-ra
May 25;May 29
June 27 l July 1
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Medical.
Relief from Cough in 10 Minutes.
Mai/m art's ‘
y £iaC sa
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, GOUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, &c.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE.
Immediately it is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.R. Office, Helleck, Co. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.— July, 1891.
" Sold by all Chemists at Is. IJd. and 2s. 91.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents:—Elliott Bros., S. Hoffni-ng & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
SUFff *%
A Great Discovery in Medicine
Vi ithlu the reach of all.
WARRANTED TO CURE,
If curable at all,
Or Money Refunded.
MUMPORD’S
Vivifying and Purifying
MEDICATED NERVINE PILLS,
Purely Vegetable, and free from any
poisonous substance.
THE most extraordinary medicine ever discovered
for the complete cure of all forms of weakness
arising from Errors in Youth, Spermatorrhoea,
Impotence, Depression, &c. This great discovery
is the, result of 22 years’ careful study, and experi-
ence In the treatment of unfortunate sufferers
from the above diseases, which sometimes lead on
to consumption or insanity and suicide. As a
proof that this wonderful mcdiciue is really a
genuine remedy, it is sold on a guarantee providing
the instructions are faithfully carried out, which
isquiteeasy. PRICE 20/- PER CASE. Four weeks'
supply, with all instructions, certain rules, &c.,
neatly packed-to avoid observation. Forwarded
by post to all parts, and strictly confidential.
Letters containing £1 will be attended to at once,
and medicine, &c., forwarded by return post to
any address.
F. W. MUMFORD, Herbalist & Eclectic,
,21 Bourke St. East, Melbourne. ■
Established in Melbourne, 1878.
Mention this Paper
m
The MAGIC FEMALE PILLS, Best
ami Safest. Quickly Correct Irregu-
larities and Remove all Obstructions,
PRICE 10s. per Box ; No. 2, Extra
Strength, 20s. per Box. Particulars
Free. W. JB. PRICE,
•p.O. Box 100. Melbourne.
[ADIES!
CONSULT the Eminent Specialist
. DR. SPEER,
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
tILLS GUARANTEED, 10s and £1 per box, post free
“ A Golden Shanty.”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and ver»
ALL AGENTS.


Special Advertisements.
The universal popularity of Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is the most convincing proof of its value as a
Dressing for lire Hair.
When the hair becomes thin, faded, or pre-
maturely gray, this preparation restores all its
former color, fullness, and texture. Bland, cool,
and delightfully perfumed, Ayer’s Hair Vigor
prevents baldness, keeps the head free from
dandruff, and cures unsightly and troublesome
humors of the scalp. Ladies desirous of having
an abundance of soft, silky tresses, and gentle-
men who wish to preserve their youthful ap-
pearance to an advanced age, would do well to
furnish their toilets with
Ayer’s HairVigor s
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Perfumers.
, c,e & l,
\<P
from
every flower that
breathes a fra?ranoe
SWEET SCENTS
LO X OTIS OPOPONAX
I FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
£ v V s
Street
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Beware of imitations: The genuine is signed
TRADE MARE MUSE DKER
F
TO FARMERS. —All who are interested in
having a good crop of grain should use
“The Farmer’s Friend” for preventing rust in
seed-wheat. Send to W. F. Gaunt, Bathurst.
Messrs, Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. {3T" For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
k
Lancet.
MONDAY POPS!
BREAKFAST CBEEK PAVILION,
BRISBANE.
EVERY
MTOnvrDA-Y WIGHT.
KW ONE SHILLING (including Tram Fare).*®*
ANDREW L. PETRIE, Promoter.
The QUEENSLAND SPORTS DEPOT!
ESTABLISHED 18fi«.
Cricketers, Fishers, Anglers, Boxers, Smokers and Foot-
ballers are invited to inspect their every requisite just to
hand, direct from the makers.
HARRY A. HOWES (late George Prentice),
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Tennis Racquets Restrung and Repaired, guaranteed
equal to new. Price List, containing rules of all above
games, posted free of charge.
ROBERT PHILLIPS,
THE SOUTH MELBOURNITE,
Turf Commission Agent,
Member-
f Tattersalls, Sydney,
■-! Victorian Club, Melbourne,
t Tattersalls, Adelaide.
Registered by theV.R.C., A.J.0., 5.A.J.0., and
other Clubs,
Executes COMMISSIONS on all Racing Events
at a Stated or Starting Price.
NO REPLY. NO BUSINESS.
Address —
ELLERSLIE CIGAR DIVAN,
257 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,,
Melbourne.
TATTEBSAL L’S.
33 I Pt T XI 13 XV Y,
Run at Randwick, May 28, 1892.
50,000 at 10 50,000
First, 10,000; Second, 3000 ; Third, 2000; S., 2000- N s
3000 ; 20 at 100, 2000 ; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 25 at 20, 500 • ion.
at 10, 1000 ; 100 at 5, 500. Less 10. 265 extra ’
TATTERSALL’S WINTER STAKES.
Run at Randwick, June 4, 1892.
10.000 at 10 10,000
JL. O'- C. W I IST T IE 18,
Run at Randwick, June 11, 1892.
25.000 at 10 25,000
Ee sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
Address— “TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
HDHH BEDE’S
(The Original Promoter)
BIRTHDAY CUP.
RUN AT RAND WICK, MAY 28, 1892.
Address— “ ADAM BEDE,” Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney..
(..)
®*WE ADVISE SUFFERERS FROM NERVOUS DISEASES TO
Take HERE RASSMUSSEN’S Registered, Celebrated and Perfected ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
ONLY AUTHORISED. GENUINE and REGISTERED VITALITY PILLS IN AUSTRALIA.
VALUABLE BOOK.
Price One Shilling.
“THE NATURAL DOCTOR,”
By Herr Rassmussen,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist.
A valuable Herbal Work, con-
taining over a hundred valuable
Herbal Recipes, and muck use-
ful information on self-cure for
Nervous Debility, Blood Dis-
eases, Barrenness and all other
Special Complaints. Posted
free on receipt of Is. in any
colonies stamps.
Proving the Wonderful Cures
to be genuine.
IMPORTANT.
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies, having been greatly
improved and being now per-
fected, they will in the future
be known as Herr Bassmusseu’s
Altaiinc Remedies.
CUSTOMS DUTY
Herr Rdssmusseu’s Remedies
are now sent duty tree in New
South Wales and to Queensland
and Victoria, and not delayed.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Only Genuine and Registered Vitality Pills in Australia.
A guaranteed cure for Nervous Debility, Emissions,
Lost Vitality, Vital Weakness, Varicocele, Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Afflictions of the Nervous
System. Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted; Special
powerful course, 435. 6d. Smaller boxes at 6s. and 12s.
Alfaline Lock Cure Pills.
Guaranteed to cure all contagious Diseases of the Blood,
Gonorrhoea, Gleet, Strictures, Discharges, Scaldings,
Whites, Sores and Piles. Ordinary course, 235. 6d.
posted; Special powerful course, 435. 6d. Smaller
boxes, 6s. and 12s. posted.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A wonderful remedy for the whole system, and un-
equalled as a BLOOD PURIFIER and NERVE STRENOTHENER
A certain cure for Blood and Nerve Diseases, Rheuma-
tism, Indigestion, Costiveuess, Affection cf the Liver
and Kidnevs, Barrenness of both sexes', and a certain
preventative against disease of any kind. This remedy
changes a Sallow and Faded Complexion to that of a
most enchanting and beautiful one, and give elderly
persons a much more youthful appearance which is
brought about by its wonderful Blood Purifying and
Nerve Strengthening properties. Prices—Ordinary
course, 235. 6d. posted; Special powerful course, 435. 6d.
Smaller boxes at Is. 6d., 3s , 6s, and 12s.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautefier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the hair turning
grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for Pimpjes,
Freckles, Sunburn, Tan, Yellowness, and wonderful for
beautifying the complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Awarded Gold Medal.
3
Hermust . v
iDijEDViniß* proprietor
Of IHI CELEBRATED
AlfaliNl
PILLS
WHICH HAVI fURIB
OVER 100.000 SUFFERERS
a bun Awarded
GOLD gtEDAL
«£»•»»£
03
Only Genuine if they bear this Label.
GENUINE TESTIMONIALS.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, THOMAS MUDIMAN, of 515 George St., Sydney,
do hereby solemnly declare as follows:
WHEREAS I suffered very severely from a very
troublesome AFFECTION OP THE NERVES. I tried
several Doctors and Remedies, but all of no avail. I,
as a last hope, obtained from HERR RASSMJSSEN
some of his Purely Herbal ALFALINE PILLS, which
I hereby solemnly declare completely cured me. These
Remedies also cured my wife.
I make this Solemn Declaration, believing the same
to be true.
DECLARED at Sydney before me.
S. T. WHIDDON, Justice of the Peace.
I certify that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfa line Remedies
cured mo of a very serious Blood Disease. —JOHN
REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
It gives me much pleasure to testify that your won-
derful Remedies cured me of a complicated complaint
of the Liver and Kidneys. I shall always recommend
your Remedies.—Yours gratefully, R. ALBURY, frt
Washington-street, Sydney.
The wonderful Alkaline Remedies cured me of a
most obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years stand-
ing after trying all known remedies. I shall always feel
grateful to you, and I am willing at any time to be
interviewed by any person who doubts this testimonial—
WM. ATKINS, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
Address:
HERR S47 GEORGE STREET, Sydney.
PRESS OPINIONS,
“ Herr Rassmussen’s, the
Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Herbal Remedies have been the
means of performing many
great cures during the last
few years, as his numerous
testimonials will prove.”—
Sydney Bulletin.
“We have been shown some
excellent Testimonials of the
great GKis.Es effected by Herr
Rassmussen’s Celebrated Rem-
edies. Herb Rassmussen is a
gentleman who has gained for
him-elf a reputation in the me-
dical world of Herbal Science.’’-
-4 astral »an. Star."
“Herb Rassmussen’s Remedies
we are glad to say, hold the
highest place in the Colonies,
and enjoy the confidence of many
of the leading people in New
South Wales, Victoria, and
Queensland. —Cooktown Courier,
Queensland.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown
us some highly complimentary
Testimonials which he has
received certifying to impor-
tant cures effected by his
Remedies." Sydney Evening
News.
SICKNESS CURED, HEALTH PRESERVED and LIFE PROLONGED by Dr. A. WILFORD HALL’S /V «~y 'T-tl'V r ~f^-~l —Fl~TVnr<~t TlTCjf*if>*\7'
The treatment disclosed is unfolded in the “Health Pamphlet”—a condensed prescription of 48 pages. To read and study this pamphlet is to gain a fund of physiological, pathological andl
therapeutical knowledge that a hundred tunes the cost of the pamphlet would not purchase from its owner could it be given back and blotted from his memory.
vv ,
KM
rai
VfM
W
—f-
*KS«
m
/:;
~
m
'■iftsm*.
■■'.
m
W.
m
wm
mJm
Or. A. Wit, ford llai,C, Pli.D., LL.D., F.S.S.C., &c.
Let it bo distinctly understood that this is no
scheme of quackery to draw money out of the
afflicted, nor is it any sort of a patent medicine
humbug; sinrcthe tv is wot a grain of medicine of any
kind required in the treatment. Notwithstanding
this fact, it takes directly hold of the worst cases
of Constipation, dyspepsia, liver complaints, head-
aches, heart disease, incipient consumption-
diabetes, and Bright’s disease of the kidneys, in,
eluding fevers and inflammation of the lungs, and
of other internal organs—not by attacking these
so-called diseases directly, but by radically neutra-
lising and removing their causes, thus ullowiny
nature herself to do her work unimpeded.
In selling this Pamphlet we are obliged to re-
require a “Pledge of Honor” from those purchas-
ing it, not to show or reveal its contents outside
of their own families. This is for our own protec-
tion, and as the only means by which our just
rights in the discovery can be maintained.
Doctors, of course, who purchase are not debarred
from using the treatment in their own practice,
providing they do not show the pamphlet or do not
reveal the rationale.of the treatment.
Read the Reports from Sydney Papers. -
The Australian Temperance World says We can
thoroughly recommend it as n genuine treatment that
tjmst benefit most all disorders. It requires no outlay
after purchasing the pamphlet. It is based upon
thoroughly hygienic principles, and we believe every
thorough user must receive benefit. One great considera-
tion with ladies will be that it secures a clear skin and
speedily does away with a muddy complexion, and
removes all eruptions arising from diseased conditions of
the blood. We have made ourselves familiar with the
pamphlet, and heartily endorse it.”
Presbyterian, of July 4, says;—"We have seen the
pamphlet, and can thoroughly recommend its rationale.”
The Australian Star says;—" It is thoroughly purify-
ing, hygienic, and rational in the highest degree.”
The Echo, Bulletin, and other loading papers speak in
similar unqualified terms.
■R
PRICE Of HEALTH PAMPHLET, £l.
3PledLge
No. 145.
-Hu
of Honour.
Be it known that for the purpose of obtaining from Dr. A. WHford Hall the knowledge of his
hygienic discovery, and for his treat ment of health and longevity, with the. pamphlet unfolding the same,
1 hereby j ledge my word and honor not to show the pamphlet nor reveal its contents to anyone, nor allow
it to be seen by any person ; ntr will I use the treatment with any others except the members of my own
family, from each of whom a promise shall be exacted not to reveal the treatment to others.
This pledge does not debar the physician who may purchase the pamphlet from using the
treatment with his patients, provided, however, he does not shine the pamphlet nor reveal to them the
rationale of the treatment.
Signed this day of , 18 —-
OSK WITNESS.
P. 0. .
11 3--
Cut this out and sign with one witness, and send with One Pound to Dr. llalt/s Sole Agent,
J. C. OAKMAN, 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
who will forward the Pamphlet by returnjhail.
Read the Guarantee as to the Genuine Value of the Treatment from prominent ministers and others.
In order that readers of Dr. Hall’s advertisement may feei sure that it is genuine and worthy their attention and
earnest consideration, I have asked a few gentlemen (among the thousands of those who already have,-the pamphlet
and are using the method) for permission to publish their names as a guarantee to the public that they are free from
any catch penny scheme or fraud in purchasing the pamphlet.
J. C. OAKHAM, Sole Agent for Dr. A. WILFORD HALL, Pu.D., LL.D., F.S.S.C.. &e.
Canon Arthur E. Sehvyn, Christ Church, Newcastle.
Rev. George A. Reeve, Hockley.
Rev. T. 11. M'Michael, North Shore.
Rev. Philip S. Young, Young-street, Wollongong.
Fred. J. Bird, Paddington.
Thos. Martin, Stamnore.
Cyril Haviland, Secretary School of Arts, Sydney.
Chas. W. Lukey, junior. North Shore.
Henry A. Morgan, Ashfleld.
Fred. Nicklin, Clarence-street, Sydney.
.lames Cox, King-street, Sydney.
T. Wills Pulsford, Sydney.
Thos. Oalnsford, Treasury, Sydney.
Rev. Robert Day, Editor Australian Independent.
Win. Bridle, J.P., Tumut
Fred. Walsh, J.P., Patent Ajfent, 20 Eiizabeth-st., Sydney.
J. S. Carey, Editor Australian Christian Wort.d.
Rev. T. Owens Mell, Glebe Point.
Captain F. R. L. Kossi, Ooulburn.
E. Davis, Bowral.
W. Faddy, Chemist, WoUonjrong.
J, Laker Macmillan, Church-hill, Sydney.
Philip Quirk, Raker, North Shore.
John Gray M‘Nah, Coach builder, Brisbane.
John Perry, Lonsdale-street, Melbourne.
William Bully, Lonsdale-street, Melbourne.
T. K. Proctor, Oculist Optician, Melbourne.
Ewan M‘limes, Public School, Deep Lead, Park ess
William Muir, Minmi, N.S.Vy... !
J. Gregory, Rookwbod, N.S.W.
The Scott, Church of England chap-
lain to Melbourne gaol, and spiritual adviser by
appointment to F. B. Deeming, objects to the
conduct of Marshall Lyle, in attempting to come
between the condemned gentleman and his lawful
shepherd. Just as he (Mr. Scott) had started to
hug the delusion that Deeming was getting into
“ a more suitable frame of mind,” his misguided
attorney suggested Dr. Strong as a good man for
the soul, whereupon the prisoner became unsettled
and showed signs of wanting to do without any
parson at all. But Mr. Scott, bless his heart !
intends to hang on to the doubtful penitent until
he drops, and asks nothing more than to be left
alone with his prey. If necessary, he will apply
for a Supreme Court injunction to restrain Deem-
ing from confessing his sins to Dr. Strong, or to
anybody else other than the faithful Scott, whose
son, or nephew, runs a little weekly rag at Foots-
cray (Melb.) and has promised the constant
readers a special edition of revelations anon—
Friend Lyle, whilst the shepherd dear
His prisoner “prepares,”
Keep right away—don’t interfere
In heavenly affairs.
You are no agent for the Loard
(Who loves attorneys not),
And, now that Deeming's fairly floored,
Just leave his soul to Scott.
We grant you did your little best
In battle with the rope,
And Deeming up among the blest
Will sing of you, we hope ;
But Heaven itself is faraway,
Whilst h—l is very hot,
And that’s the reason why we say—
Do leave his soul to Scott. •
The chaplain angles day by day,
And casts his line at night,
And very soon, bethinks, he may
Expect to feel a bite ;
His bait it is the Holy Book ;
What joy when he has got
That canny fish upon the hook-*
Another soul to Scott!
Good Mister Lyle, you have a nerve
To talk of fetching Strong
To poach upon this rook’s preserve
Where he has fished so long.
We will admit your pastor is
A big salvatory pot,
But this is purely prison biz.,
So leave it all to Scott.
We do not call your conduct mean,
But ill-advised and vain,
On Deeming’s togs you have a lien,
The doctors get liis brain ;
His body to the Law will go
(That’s quite another lot),
But everybody ought to know
His soul belongs to Scott.


ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
///^
m
///>sf
/M
Hi
,iys-
m
&
wz.
m.
i
r v;
\-&
M
CqgO^
i
m*
i n
Tales of the Early Days.
BY PRICE WARUNG.
No. Vll.—The Falling of the Doom.
(Fob; The Bulletin.)
The secret society of the Ring had, in
regular conclave, * ordered that Brother William
Felix, No. 20, of “Nine Circle,” should within
one lunar month, stab or shoot to the death
Brother Henry Reynell, No. 12, of “ Seven
Circle.” Reynell’s offence was (as already related)
the promising “to be true man” to Civil Com-
mandant Maconochie. Convict Bill Felix was
a member of the sub-gang of which Convict Henry
Reynell was the leader ; and, inasmuch as Reynell
had chosen Felix to be a member of 5 B Farm sub-
gang, thus freeing him from the constant wearing
of fetters and conferring upon him a desirable
degree of freedom, Felix had sworn to be his
(Reynell’s) man “ for ever and a day.” The tie of
fraternity which linked Reynell and Felix thus
was sadly complicated with the obligation of
obedience which bound the latter to the Ring.
Let Felix obey the Ring, and he would have to
enact the doom upon the one soul for whom he
cared. Let him refuse to execute the death-
warrant issued under the seal of the “One”—tfSh
dread head or “ Centre ” of the Society—and the
doom he refused to Reynell would be his own.
The Ring having given over someone to the doom,
would demand the life of the appointed executioner
if he failed within the specified time to complete
his task. In rare instances a regulation or law of
the Society might be modified or altered in effect.
But never in its history had there been known a
case where a death-warrant had been left unful-
filled and the stated executioner had continued to
live. The idol would demand appeasement for
its lust, if not in the person of one victim, in
another’s.
There is an impressive story as to the working of
this Medean law. Before the existing “ One ” it
is believed three men had filled the awful office.
The second in the administration had been ordered
to murder the then Commandant, Captain Wright.
He had acquiesced in the need for the crime-
otherwise theTrder would not have been ratified.
And, as the “ One,” it was his duty to perform the
doom on the Commandant. It was a minor but still
immutable law of the Ring that the “old man”
should only die by the “One’s” hands. The
honour was accorded to him as a privilege of his
dignity. Yet Captain Wright lived to be Major
and to give evidence before the Select Committee
on Transportation of the House of Commons.
How was that ? ,
Wright had been suddenly recalled to t Sydney.
The vessel which brought the summons of recall
could not lie off the harbourless island in the
storm-season for longer than a week, and iristant
preparations for his departure were set on foot by
the Commandant. The news spread—and twice
within the week was his life attempted in vain.
He got on board the vessel safe; thus unknow-
ingly he committed the “One” to the wrath
and vengeance of the Ring; and the Ring
demanded its vicarious sacrifice. Three days
after Wright’s sailing the body of one of the most
intelligent of the “free” constables was found
suspended from a tall pine. The dead man was
supposed to have been in pretty general favour with
the transports and his fellow officers ; hence it was
not believed that he had been murdered, and his
death was attributed to suicide. The military
surgeon, who made an examination of the corpse,
drew tire attention of the subaltern of the guard to
a curious symbol burnt or tattooed into the flesh
of the chest and freshly
cut across with a knife.
The scarification was,
however, only skin-
deep, and had been
done after death. The
officers did not recog-
nise at the moment the
significance of the scarf
It was the symbol of
the “ One ” :
Not even the dreaded Head of the Society was
free of its penalties.
# # *
Civil-Commandant Maconochie (it will be
remembered) had, in his anxiety- to acquire a
knowledge of the Ring’s methods of communica-
tion, been trapped into conveying the report, of
how certain “Ringers” had voted at the trial
of Reynell. “ Condemnation or Acquittal ?”—the
question hung thus in the balance when Macbno-
chie had appeared in the yard where the Ring
Lodge was in session of denunciation. Nine were
for condemnation —for sending on the accused to
the “ Conclave of Doombut thirteen votes were
required by the law of the secret society before
the condemnation could be passed. And four votes
Macdriochie had been trapped into conveying.
Without knowing the precise bearings of his
action, he had learnt enough to understand that
he had given Reynell over to the doom. An
interjection by a Ringer who was a loyal friend
to Reynell—strange, how in this accursed com-
munity of felonry, which a noble member of the
House , of Lords stated to be deficient in every
human attribute, feelings of affection refused to
absolutely die out, and thus prove his lordship
right ! —had informed Maconochie of so much.
What was the doom : death, mutilation, or a
simple “sending to Coventry?” Maconochie
asked several of the officers of the Establishment,
but could gain no satisfactory answer. “ Most
likely death!” he was told by the gaoler. .“The
Ring didn’t think much o’ death !”
Herein the gaoler was subject to that tendency
to error which infected all thoughts and beliefs,
of whatever nature, held in the University of
Depravity.J The Ring thought a good deal of
death when that Mighty Leveller was enlisted
on their behalf. It was only when Death
acted for the Authorities that they snapped
their fingers in his , face and jested plea-
santly with him. When the Ring used him, he
was to its members an instrument of terror, and
they surrounded him in their imaginations with
every ghastly, every agonising, every horrific
attribute, of which the distorted culture of the
society’s founders, or the dark fancies of the most
ignorant Ringers—such as those who ever trembled
at the verge of madness—could invent and adaptl
But, so momentous is the alteration in human
feeling, which can be effected by changing the
point of view, Death had but to draw his fees
from the Establishment to be sneered at, ridi-
culed, and derisively welcomed. Black Norfolkers
went sardonically to the grave at the Establish-
ment's orders, just because the Establishment
wished them to do differently.
* # .#
Maconochie sent for Johnson, leader at the
session of denunciation.
“Have you any objection, sir, to relate the
precise significance of the condemnation which
you understand the Ring has passed on prisoner
Reynell ?”
“ ’Eaps !” was the laconic rejoinder.
“I beg your pardon ! What did you say ?”
“ ’Eaps ! I sed I ’av ’eaps of objecshuns.”
“Oh !” Then, after a pause, “I believe, John-
son, you have been a prisoner under the Crown
for many years?”
“ More’n can count!”
“Yes? Then you must have heard read many
times the regulation as to answering truly and
explicitly, and without prevarication or evasion
or denial, all questions put by persons in properly-
constituted authority?”
“ Can’t say as I ’av, yer Honor !”
“Johnson!”
“ Yes, yer Honor ? ”
“I mean to deal fairly and kindly with every man
on the island—but I will have truth-speaking. I
never forgive a lie, except it is uttered under the
influence of terror ! ”
“ In wot ’av’ I lied, yer Honor ? ”
“ You said you had never heard the regulation
enforcing ”
“ Savin’ yer Honor’s presence, I said nothink o’
the kind! Yer arsked me ’ad I ’erd it read.
Well, I never did ? I’ve ’erd it mumbled ev’ry
Sunday since I was a kinchin—but never ’erd it
read wunst. There ain’t no ’stablishment orf’cer
as can read—unless it’s yerself.” The rascal
grinned in enjoyment of his own satire,
“ You know the meaning of the regulation—
what it enforces —however ? ”
“ O’ course : to answer th’ truth, th’ ’ole truth
an’ nothink but th’ truth w’en ’terrogated by
’stablishment orf’cer.”
“ Then answer me, sir.” (Not imperatively,
but with a studied politeness, did Maconochie
now speak,) “ What judgment—what ‘ doom ’as
you call it—has your society ordered upon Rey-
nell?” . - •
Johnson gazed reflectively at the; ceiling. He
passed his right hand over the corrugations of his
forehead, and drew it down the. scarred and
weather-blighted cheeks to the stern, square jowl
that had gripped numberless groans of agony in
their utterance, arid bid them be dumb. Then he
said : , ■ ■ j.. ;, ■
“Mr. Com’dant, Pa’son- Taylor - tells us that
w’en th’ higher law conflicts wi’ th’ lower, we must
alius obey th’ higher—alius th' higher. Do th’'
pa’son’s views meet wi’ yer approval, sir ?” •
The Commandant, already i once trapped ;by
Johnson, was dubious of the fair seeming of the
interrogation, arid declined to answer directly.
“Answer.my question!”
“ Wi’ orl respecks, y’r Honor, I can’t till I know
wot to obey—that as is th’ higher law or that as is
th’ lower!”
“There is no question of higher or lower law
here, my man—none. It is merely a matter of
answering my question. What is Reyuell’s doom?”
“ That’s w’ere yer an’ me jest differ, y’r Honor.
’Tis orl a matter .o’ higher an’ lower law. If I
•answer-tlri question, I obey th’ law o’ th’ System.
If I don’t answer it, then I obey th’ law o’ th’
Ring, an’ I’d ’av y’r Honor know as fur me an’
secli as me ’tis th’ King’s,law as is highest law.”
Again the fellow’s lip's parted arid his cheeks
.wrinkled in a gleeful defiance of 'Authority.
“You’re talking foolishly,” rejoined the Com-
mandant, bearing the implied taunt with a
patience of tone arid fnanner that, if. lie had only
known it, was more’likely to penetrate to Johri-
'son’s bet’tei’ nature than any number of Authority-
phrased words; “You’re' twisting Mr. Taylor’s
sayings to suit your own purpose. 'Mr. Taylor
meant, no doubt, that when human law conflicts
with the moral law of conscience or revealed law,
then the latter, as the higher law, must be obeyed.”
No more unfortunate admission could have been
made by a System’s officer; and the ingenious
Johnson, whose naturally-sharp wits the attrition
of adversity had ground.to remarkable keenness,
while wearing away the moral part of him, eagerly
seized the opportunity thus offered of making an
embarrassing criticism on the System.
“ That’s jest it, y’r Honor—that’s th’ very
identical thing as I mean. Now, th’ System’s
laws an’ reg’lashuns is th’ lower law, an’ our laws
an’ reg’lashuns—th’Ring’s laws, that is—they’re
th’ higher, ’cos . But will yer ’ear th’ reason,
yer Honor ’”
“ Go on—though you are talking insubordinate
nonsense. I Will hear what you have to say ! ”
“ This is th’ reason. Th’ Ring’s law is th’
moral law ’cos it’s founded on justice ! ” He
stooped and, placing his hands on his knees,
crooked his head so as to glare impishly into the
Commandant’s face to watch the effect of his
words, or rather of those he left unsaid.
For not what the wretch said but what he left
unsaid stung the Commandant. The implication
was clear. The System was not founded upon
justice. And in his heart of hearts Maconochie
knew the accusation was true. Penalties British
law justly provided for those who offended against
it, but then British law proposed only to punish,
and not to give over the offenders to “ unusual
punishment” and utter corruption. The System
did this, however—and the taunt went home. But,
what could Maconochie do ? Argument imperilled
his.authority, arid, after all, he did not invent the
System. So: —
“You decline to answer what is Reynell’s
doom ?”
“ Aye, y’r Honor, ’cos th’ Ring forbids me!”
“You know I can inflict penalties upon you for
refusing to answer my plain interrogatory ?”
“Short o’puttin’me into an ’oss’ necklace, yer
can, sir. But yer won’t punish me !”
.“Why?” Against his judgment, the Com-
mandant put the enquiry. Similar remarks had
been made to him before by men up for punish-
ment, but invariably they had been uttered in
suppliant or cringing tones. This fellow, however,
spoke with the confidence of knowledge.
“ W’y ? ‘Cos yer know wot I ses is true. An’
: ’cos, although yer an orf’cer o’ th’Systum, yer
’art ’tain’t in the Systum’s way o’ doin’ things.
That’s w’y, sir. Yer ain’t been long ’nuff ’ere to
.’a’ changed th’ ’art o’ a man fur th’ ’art o’ a beast.
Yer know who said that, y’r Honor?’
*See The Bulletin— “ Tales of the Early'Days,”|Nos.
IV., V., and Vl.—“The Convening of the Ring,” “The-'
Session of Denunciation,” and “The Conclave of Doom,”
+ It is supposed that the incident here related was the
origin of an order once issued by John Price by which
every “bond” arid “free” constable was required to
present himself stripped for examination by a medical
officer at certain periods. The “bond” constables had
no alternative but obedience, but the “free”, officers,
almost to a'man, refused to'submit to periodical inspection
as degrading. They appealed to the Governor in Van
Diemen’s Land, who upheld the objection, in their case,
“ till Mr. Price could show specific reason for the pro-
posed course in the interests of discipline.” Price replied
in (for him) a remarkably indiscreet manner—in what
was known as a “Semi-official communication”—by
alleging that it was necessary to find out from time to
time “ whether officers’ personal marks varied.” There-
upon Mr. Price received one of the few snubs of his
official career!
{ “University of Depravity.” Archbishop Whately,
in his speech to the House of Lords, of May, 1840, on his
motion for the abolition of Transportation, thus described
Norfolk Island.


DFD
W
m
i
%
m
m.
to.
<tm
\
ftr//.
r'-'y/W
- :m>. /•
• ','///*/ • . //•
/M//J/////A
V
m
t'Ur
«o
i
/a>
/
Maconochie nodded.
“Yes, o’ course yer do. It struck th’ ’ol man,
’im as was jest a-chuckin’ o’ us into Jack Ketch’s
mouth like so many sweeties—lor, ’e did love to
keep th’ carpenters an’ gravediggers a-goin’, did
Billy Burton !—it struck even him orl o’ a ’eap !
But ’e was wrong ’bout it —an’ so is Taylor, an
so are yer, an’ everybody else as ’erd o’ wot poor
Kavenagh said !”
Wrong —how d’you mean ?”
“Wot did Kavenagh say? ‘When I landed
’ere I ’ad th’ ’art o’ a man, but yer ’av plucked it
out an’ planted a brute’s ’art instead !’ That’s wot
he ses, an’ th’ jedge, an’ everybody thinks it’s true
o’ th’ pris’ners only. But, man ” He gathered
breath to hurl at Maconochie, with greater
emphasis, a bitter conclusion.
“Them words war truer o’ th’ ’Stablishment
orf’cers. Th’ System finds orl its orf’cers men,
an’ leaves ’em orl brutes ! Orl o’ we don’t get
’ardened, but there ain’t one o’ yer wot doesn’t!”
* * *
Foiled by Johnson in his attempt to dis-
cover the fate in store for Reynell, Maconochie
met with no more success when he interrogated
the members of the farm sub-gang to which Rey-
nell and Felix belonged. Peake, Osborne, and
“Barrington” each frankly enough declared he
knew quite well about the order of doom, but as
for telling his Honor —well, the Ring wouldn’t
allow him.
“ If anything happens to Reynell, I shall charge
you as an accessory,” said the Commandant to
each. And the threat was laughed at. Better
the vengeance of the System than the vengeance
of the Ring. The former could only hang them—
the latter could do more : it could kill them after
a ceremony of execration. They were frightened
of the last.
From Felix the Commandant received his one
fragment of consolation. “I be ’Arry Reynell’s
sworn man, y’r Honor ! An’ no harm ud ’appen
unto him if Bill Felix can stop ut wi’ life nor
limb.” And, somewhat re-assured, Captain
Maconochie went then to Reynell himself.
The man was hoeing. He had stopped for a
moment to rest and stood gazing towards the sea
and over the township, which was semi-veiled in
a lustrous mist, as though Nature would hide
from the eye of Heaven the halls where the devil
and the System held their joint revels. On
the soft earth the Commandant’s steps were
inaudible, and the transport did not know of the
official’s approach till he was addressed.
“ Reynell!”
The convict started, and turned round. Ho
“capped” instantly, and, in the same gesture,
Maconochie saw that he Ixad dashed away a tear
from his eyes.
“ Good morning, Reynell! The gang making
satisfactory work ?”
“ Yes, sir, I think so ! With a fair crop, the
Com’sariat Ml have to pay them a good many
marks.”§
Them—why not “us?” Maconochie was quick
to notice the substitution of the word.
“Why ‘them,’Reynell? Why don’t you, who
are the leader and director of the gang, join your-
self with the others ?”
“Oh,” with a marked hesitation, and a quiver-
ing of the lips that told of an inward agitation,
“ ’twas a slip, sir !”
Maconochie stepped forward and laid a hand,
with kindly pressure, on the transport’s shoulder.
“ No, Reynell, it was no slip ! It meant that
already you are separating yourself in thought
from youf fellow-gangers—it that you are
under doom of death from the Ring !”
The Condemned flamed out into sudden anger.
Such strange tricks does the fancy play with a
certain order of superstitious minds that he was
jealous that the secret of the society he thought
so much of as to submit himself quietly to
its fatal will, should be thus known to an out-
sider, and that outsider one of the accursed Estab-
lishment. “ Who told you that ? ”
“ No one. I inferred it—partly from what
passed last Sunday—you heard I was present ?
and partly from what you say was a ‘slip.’ Come,
Key nel 1 —Harry ’ ’
All the patience, all the forbearance, all the
tenderness that it was possible for one man—a
superior—to extend to his inferior, Maconochie
caused to vibrate in his voice. _ The prisoner,
bringing himself in the sudden impulse of sur-
prise, to face the Commandant, showed in the
workings of his features how the “Harry” had
stirred him.
“Tell me,” Maconochie went on, “if not the
doom, how I can help you to escape it. Remember,
my friend, that I brought this on you ! ”
“ No ! ” In a low, choking guttural.
“ Oh, but yes! I cannot forget that it was
because you swore to be a true man to me, and
thereby helped me nobly in what I regard as my
mission here, that you are under the ban of the
Ring. Therefore, as through me you broke, it
would appear, the society’s law, it is only right
that through me aid shall come to you.”
“There can—bo no—aid, sir! All’s up!”
Reynell let his head fall on his chest. The action
was that of a tired man, of an over-wearied bearer
of a burden ; there was nothing abject in it.
“No. I pledge you my word, that I
will get you out of this trouble.”
“’Tis no trouble, sir !”
“Listen, sir! I brought you into this quarrel
with the‘Ring because I wanted—well, I wished
to count you as one of the trophies of my new
methods —”
“ Beggin’ your pardon for interruptin’ y’r
Honor, an’ it’s good of you to put it that way, but
it's not true —an’ it’s no use ! I’m doomed —■
doomed !” And then, with something of that
saucy contempt for life which had made him
before Maconochie’s advent a centre of insubor-
dination, he went on : “ It's not that I’m afraid
of death—not a bit of it! No Ringer is—few of
us are !” He waved his hand so as to embrace in
its sweep the whole group of Kingston buildings—
the dormitories, the gaol, and the exercise and
work yards. “ None of us are ! But no one likes
death at the hands of the Ring, for it’s disgrace—
and besides —”
“What?”
“Yer won’t think me a softy, sir, will yer, tor
saying it? but I’ve of’n thought of late —” again
he paused, stumbling for an expression. Macono-
chie waited,
“ I’ve thought that, p’r’aps, life wouldn’t be
such a bad thing—if one only had-a chance to
keep square !”
Maconochie’s heart leapt within him. Here
was proof that he was in the right! Bring a
creature, however hardened to all seeming, within
the circle of human interests and brotherly chari-
ties ; re-clothe him with manhood and indivi-
duality ; refuse to treat him longer as a mere
Number, as a Thing to occupy a line in returns
as an Object of offence to the Law, and, therefore,
to have his badness whipped out of him by the
Law’s agents; let the unforced music of a kind
word sound in his ears; do these, and the foun-
tains of a vigorous life would burst and
imperiously from the core of his nature. This
was his theory—here was the successful applica-
tion of it !
He clasped the transport’s hand. “ You’re
right, Reynell—you’re right, Harry! Life is
worth living—the struggle to make yourself a
better man will make it so to you ! I’ll help you
all I can, by removing you out of the reach of
pressure from the Ring- —”
“ You’re very good, sir,” muttered the convict,
“ but it’s too late !”
“ It’s never too late to repair the past, Harry !”
“Yes, ’tis—in my case. For—look here, sir-
can I trust yer Honor yer Honor’s honor to
keep this secret what I’m about to tell ye?”
“ If you insist upon it—yes !”
“I do —I do! Why’tis too late is this—if I
don’t die, the chap who’s to settle me will. That’s
Ring law !”
“Reynell!”
“ ’Tis gospel true, sir ! An’ that’s why I’ve got
to bear the doom !”
# * *
“I will send you up to Phillip Island yonder
till the brig arrives, and then I will despatch
you to Sydney,” Maconoehiesaid, confronted with
this new revelation of the Ring’s potency.
“No use, sir. If I don’t die, the chap ’ll who’s
to settle me. An’ besides, they’d reach me
there ! ”,
“ I will take you into my household and give
you a special guard ! ”
“ The cooks’d poison my rations ! ”
“ I’ll send your food from my own table ! ”
“ To reach mo they’d poison you and your
family.”
“ Are they devils? ” burst out the Commandant,
losing self-restraint for the moment.
“ Aye, they are that! But who made ’em so—
who made us so—for I’m one o’ them, sir? The
System ! ” And then, after a pause, while Macono-
chie rocked himself on his heels in acute distress
at these ever-recurring assaults upon the adminis-
tration of which he was the head, he resumed :
“ No, y’r Honor ; I joined the Ring wi’ my eyes
open. I was eager to make a break in my life—it
was all work an’ punishment, an’ sleep, an’
devilry, an’ then devilry, an’sleep, an’ punishment
an’ work over again— an’ the Ring makes a change.
An’ I’m not goin’ beyond Ring custom, especially
as my breakin’ away would let another chap in for
the doom.”
“Tell me who he is, and I’ll send him away,
too ! ”
Reynell laughed. “ You don’t know the Ring,
Captain Maconochie ! Twenty years off, if that
chap’s a true Ringer an’ met me, he’d do for me
then ! No, sir, let it be, let it be. P’raps I’m
better dead than alive. I can’t do any more harm
dead ! ”
# * *
Maconochie, with the taste of ashes in his
mouth, left the farm, but instantly despatched an
overseer with an escort of a sergeant and four
men and had Reynell locked in a cell, pending his
despatch to Phillip Island, where it was his inten-
tion to send him. As the escort passed into Pine-
lane—the pine-framed avenue leading from the
Settlement to Longridge—Bill Felix met them as
he was on his way to the hut. As he stood aside
and saluted the overseer, he glanced enquiringly
at the prisoner. Reynell read the glance and in
the Ring language assured Felix to be under
no alarm. “If Felix could not execute the
order of doom before the twenty-eighth day(ar
fortnight had still 'to elapse) he, the condemned,
would perform the ‘cross-road trick.’” Which
was—suicide. The Ring should be obeyed; the
idol should not be disappointed’of its victim.
# # #
A week passed. Under the supervision
of two soldiers—one for day and the other for
night-duty—Reynell was lodged in the solitary
hut on Phillip'lsland. And Bill Felix, appointed
executioner, knew that his own—or Reynell’s—
time was drawing near, Peake, Osborne, and
“ Barrington ’ —none had spoken to him of the
imminent event; to have done so would have
violated a regulation of the society; and yet he
knew it was an hourly question with them as to
the manner in which iie would perform the doom,
lie smiled to himself at the way he would obey
the Ring-while disappointing it.
Several more days passed. Maconochie him-
self was on the alert with his telescope at seven
o’clock in the morning and five in the afternoon
when the sentry on Phillip Island would fire off
his musket and thus give the “all’s well” signal.
Although the distance between Norfolk and
Phillip was but two miles and a furlong, the surf
fringing either island made the boat-passage dan-
gerous, and as the Commandant did not feel ,jus-
tified in despatching a boat to the rock save on
-every third day, he had arranged the gun-fire
signal. The report could not be heard, but with
a spy-glass tin' flash could be seen. Flag signals
from Phillip’s had been discontinued since they
had been worked by convicts to destroy a boat’s
crevy.
For seven days the report-speaking musket was
fired morning and evening, and Maconochie felt
hopeful. He had got it into his head., in spite of
what lie had learnt, that if the month would pass
without the violent death of either Reynell or
some other prominent villain being reported, the
doom would pass also. And to-morrow would
end his suspense. He would send a boat over in
the morning.
But on the morrow he himself missed the obser-
vation of the musket-fire. He was busy investi-
gating the cause of death of William Felix, No.
89-2Q.4 per Coromandel, shot dead by the sentry at
the outer gaol-tower.
# * *
Bill Felix, with no morn in his head for
two ideas at one and the same time, had been at
first strangely confused by the conflict of the obli-
gations to which he had subjected himself. The
Ring held by grips oPsteel which would not relax,
and yet his vow to Reynell tugged at his heart.
Reynell had chosen him, Felix, from among seven
score of men in irons, and had freed him from
“ them domned clinks ” which, encircling his
ankles, bit with their subtle corrosion also into his
vitals. Most prisoners chafed physically under
the compression of the irons; but others—and
curiously enough these wore not exclusively the
naturally refined class—fretted savagely under it
both in body and soul. Men who, before exile,
had spent their existence for the most part out of
doors, in the delicious enfranchisement of wild
nature—men who had been shepherds and farm
labourers, poachers and gamekeepers, gipsies of
the land or those gipsies of the sea, the merchant-
sailors—were fettered doubly. And ex-farm hn!hd
Felix—“an incendiary monster,” Sir William
Fcliett called him at Manchester Assizes—who
had been one of a crowd which burnt a farmer’s
ricks and who had as much evil in his nature
§ “ Marks.”—Any surplus crop over the rental paid to
the Establishment by the mutual-responsibility gangs for
their farms was bought, in Maconochie’s system, by the
Government, and paid for in marks. The marks went
towards the purchase of absolute or conditional freedom.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 809 Pitt-street, Sydney.
&
LEA
PERRINS
SAUCE
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi/ the Vrovr I/‘tors. Worcester: Crosse d- Blackwell, London, se.,
and by Groars an I Oilmen throughout the World.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks , Colonial
Institute, are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Proprietor.
FD
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural white,
tinged with the faintest rose-blush. Speedily removes
Wrinkles, Freckles, Sunburn and Tan and mantles the
pale and faded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty
CAUTION. —None genuine without the trade mark
of Barclay & Co., New York, affixed to each bottle.
‘TALES OF THE COIsYtCT SYSTEM/
Watches, Diamonds, Jewellery, silver-plate.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT IF 1 H O 3VH THE M ANTUF ACTTJEEES TO THE PUBLIC.
UNEQUALLED FOR VALUE, UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY, and at PRICES IN MANY INSTANCES NEARLY ONE-HALF THAT CHARGED ELSEWHERE
tar IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED OUT BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent, of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.'s Wonderful Goods at Freetrade Prices!
/STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
WORLD-FAMED
LIVERPOOL ENGLISH LEVERS.
50,000 TESTIMONIALS 50,000
From wearers in all parts of the world.
FSEETRADE
PRICES.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
£Q ftS.— S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
u LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
-P Q 1 AS.- S. D. and CO’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
inent. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£0 6s. Beware of imitations.
I D®' - ®- D - and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
ING LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection. Citeap
at £7.
£k 1 AS.-S. D, and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
u HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£S Bs. °
£G 10®' —® i>. and CO.'S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
LISH HUNTING LEVER, extraordinary
value.
£(J 1 0®' —®' F- and CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
"7 v Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear; without equal ; cheap at £lO.
£ i (I - S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
„ Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER,
tjreguet Spring, finest Compensation Balance, as sold in
the best shops in London from £l5 to £‘2o ; seven years
guaranteed.
£l 1 j AS.—S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
, _ ’ ~ and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English. The best Sporting Watch in the
World. Matchless value.
£ I GS.—S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
' WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £ll2s. 6d (Ladies’ and Gent’s).
r •/• ( aS. —S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
1U Kev i ess fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable, and of guaranteed quality.
Worth £ 10.
o i aS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
JJO 1U an( j qo,’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Extra value.
-PlO 1 O s -> £l2 10s -> £l5 10s -> to £25.—S. D. and
oUlvl IV7 (jO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals at the
prices named.
O A c AND Pen -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
jVHo KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking. After a period of six months’ adjustment
these watches are sent to the Government Observatory
Test Office at Kew, London, where they undergo a six
weeks’ test in every position, heat and cold, after which a
certificate is issued stating the number of points taken.
Note that none of ours are allowed to pass under A 75, the
highest possible being AlOO. The B and C Classes are of
much less value. A 75 ensures a rate not exceeding five
seconds’ variation in one year.
Any watch in the above List sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee on receipt of remittance.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches - birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. Cd. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’and Gentlemen's Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment and other designs a special variety. All at Free-
trade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’s Magnificent Assort-
ment of Ladies' inexpensive 15 carat Gem Dress Rings, in
new designs, from 255. to 00s., affords the beat means for
selection at genuine Free trade Prices ever placed before
the public. Our stock of 18 carat Wedding and Keeper
Rings is the largest and best, value in Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON, and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherchb display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets, Afternoon
Tea Se'ts, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entree Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style, Salad, Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.'S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
(id. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Ra e and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purses Ponemonnaies, Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brashes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetiade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
WALTHAM WATCHES
WITH THE ADDITIONAL SPACE
At our disposal, we have now added the largest stock o>
these to be found on the Australian continent, and we
ask every reader to compare ours with the prices you have
been paying. Notwithstanding the duty of 16 per cent,
recently put on by the Government, the following will be
found from 12J to 40 per cent. lower than Waltham.
Watches have ever been sold in Sydney
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate ..
Ditto ditto, good balance
Ditto ditto, compensation balance
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, |-plate, 7 jewels
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “ Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance,
patent regulator
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
£2 7
2 12
3 0
3 10
4 4
5 10
7 10
12 10
9 9
14 10
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silvet cases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S GOLD ALBERTS.—Note.—The above
is our great speciality, and the variety, characti r and
value of our stock have no equal in the whole of Austra-
lasia. Our selection of appendages, consisting of Seals
Lockets, Compasses, Charms, Freemasons’ accessories’
&c., should be seen by every intending buyer.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, SeaP r - '
&c., and the special value we offer defy all cSffi^ewfioii.
NOTE.- Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold av< ry large Stock of Loose Diamonds
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip,
tion by the best WORKMEN. v
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND,
Watch and Jewellery Palace,
SYDNEY ; Melbourne and Auckland.
before transportation as he had intellect, refused
to love his chains. They tortured and burnt
him, “O. Mister,” he had said to Major Ryan,
Maconochie’s predecessor, “ tak’th’ domned clinks
off, an yo can flog me week in an’ week out, an’
yo ’ud ! ” What Commandant Ryan had refused
to do, Tran-port Reynell had virtually done.
Therefore, with the best elements of him, he
thanked Reynell—adored him—was prepared to
sacrifice himself for him. And in his case, as in
most others, affection cleared the wits, and enabled
him to perceive the paramount duty.
To the Ring he was bound by respect, fear,
terror. To the Condemned, he, the Executioner
of the Ring, was linked by love and gratituae.
During that four weeks’ reprieve, the debate went
on between his poor, dulled brain and his
quickened heart. And as the day of doom drew
near, so did his apprehension of how he should
satisfy the doom become the more distinct. At
last, he saw his course of action.
It was midnight on the last night but one.
Within 24 hours must the doom fall, or he himself
be Condemned and for ever accursed in the annals
of the Ring. As he rose from his bunk in the hut
on 5 B farmstead he quivered superstitiously in
the ghostly darkness. The moon was not yet up;
and he had a long—oh, so long a way !—to go in the
myriad-shaped blackness of the night. “ An’ he
war terr’ble afeard o’ th’ neet ! ”
“ Be you sleepin’, Peake?” he whispered to the
hut-mate who slept on the same side as himself.
“No!”
“I be —off—t’ do ut, Peake ! ’
“ That’s a good cove, Bill, an’ ye shall come up
higher in the Ring quicker for it ! ”
Was it fancy alone that thrilled Peake’s ears
with the words, “Cord forbid?’’ or did Felix
really breathe them ? The scoundrel fell asleep
again while trying to solve the problem as to
whether.his hearing had deceived him.
# # #
Along the pine-bordered lane—a tunnel to
hold in the bleak blasts—passed Bill Felix. Gib-
bering shapes walked with him, “ t’owd squoire
an’ pa’son, an’ mither an’ feyther from th’ Whoam
village,” and dead and gone brother Ringers, and
at least one of the three constables to whose death
he had been an accessory. They shrieked at him
in the gusts that shook the branches of the tall
pyramidal pines, and he heard their sobs plainly
in the sound of the sullen surf. He could have
sworn some of them laid hold upon him; and
great drops of perspiration beaded his forehead
and soaked his peakless cap. The wonder was
that he did not turn back in sheer affright. But
the blind mute impulse which not rarely wins men
to heroism when their wills bid them act the
coward, held him to his path.
By Government House, the sentinel’s shadow
silhouetted by the door lamp on the white garden
wall as he stood in front of the 32-pound gun on
the slope, startled him afresh. “ O Gord !” he
gasped. He had forgotten that by his oath to the
Ring he should have called on Satan.
Past the Deputy - Assistant Commissariat
General’s cottage hesturn bled, thescents of rose-tree,
spice-plant, and magnolia from the carefully-tended
garden, banishing for a second some of his dread.
He would have liked to have plucked a banana to
refresh his parched lips, but dare not jump the
fence. He did not want a bullet before his time.
Over the culvert by the Commissariat offices,
creeping down by the low wall fearful that the
soldier posted there might see him cross the fan-
shaped beam of light from the one unblinded
window : he reached the Grass-plot. He paused
hen, leaning against the palisade that surrounded
the flagstaff. He heard, rather than saw, the
balled flag rustle softly as it hung suspended,
against the foot of the mast. He would have spat
upon it could he have reached it. But he could
curse it. To-morrow —nay, this very morning—
the ball of bunting would run up (quickly to the
truck and would reveal itself magnificently as the
Union Jack at the precise hour, perhaps, the re-
quisition went in for his coffin. So he cursed it,
beneath his breath.
At last he stood within a yard’s length of his goal.
See that narrow stream of light, shooting outwards
from midway up that great rim of massy black-
ness ? It projects from the loophole of the guard-
tower at the north-eastern angle of the gaol.
Six feet above the loophole stands, as Bill knows
well, a soldier, with firelock ever ready ; mute
himself, save at half-hour intervals when he hurls
into the night a grim, ironical “All’s well!” or,
more rarely, when he issues a challenge ; and his
old Brown Bess is mute, too—till there is occasion
for her to speak. A pace-and-a-half, and Bill
would be visible in the flash of light. Thirty-six
inches this side of Eternity ! And he had always
calculated that it would take a drop of ten feet to
dislocate his neck. Decidedly death was nearer
this way than from the scaffold —by six feet or
thereabouts!
Would Reynell do him justice? Would the
Ring ? Would the Ring, after all, think he was
shot by mischance, instead of from his own pur-
pose? “God !”—again ! He had never thought
of that! Would his sacrifice be all in vain, then ?
Suppose that the Ring still held Reynell to his
doom? “God!”
In the agony of doubt, he must have exclaimed
aloud. Suddenly the challenge parted the dark-
ness.
“ Who goes there ?”
He did not give himself time for another
thought; he stepped boldly into the light.
“ Who goes there? Answer, or I fire !”
“ Fire, an’ be domned t’ tha !”
He challenged Fate as well as the soldier. And
both answered.
* * #
When they bore him into the guard-room
he was still alive. He gasped two sentences.
“ Yo’ll tell—Pe —ake—this be th’ doom. An’
give my lo—ave t’ ’Arry Reynell, ’ullyo?” And
in a little while passed out of the ken of an
aggrieved System.
Maconoohie, bending to view the wound, saw
that the ball had entered between the rims of
two circles described on the man’s chest. One —
the larger—was an old sear; the other —the inner
circle —was still of a festering newness. The
latter was the symbol of Bill’s recently gained
membership of No. 7 Circle.
“Bony” Anderson,|l from the signal station on
Mount Pitt, came down to report that there had
been no gun-fire from Phillip’s at seven o’clock.
A boat was despatched, and returned with the
body of a suicide. Bill Felix’s sacrifice was in
vain, after all. Harry Reynell had anticipated
the doom.
|| “ Bony ” Anderson ; The ex-man-o’-war’s man who
the System chained on Goat Island, Sydney Harbour, as a
warning’ to his brother-transports, and a source of plea-
sure to Sydney Sunday excursionists. Maconoohie made
him a signalman.


NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LMTD.
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: London, IES.O.
Branches in Australia : MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and ROCKHAMPTON .
BROKERS IN WOOL, GRAIN, TALLOW, HIDES, SKINS, LEATHER, ETC.
General Manager in Australia . .. DAVID ELDER.
B. Mountcastle & Sons, of Brisbane, Queensland,
are the leading shirt makers of the colony. Write
for patterns and directions of self-measurement.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
THCJB3 C E LEBRATEB
EXCEL
ALL OTHERS!
FIRST PftlZCt
-•VAit'V
SI^jSX3BITiOXTS
:E» X je». 3E3
Wholesale Depot;
231 CLARENCES
SYDNEY
THE GREAT SMOKE OE THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
&rand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
-‘BUDS," “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGAROS,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: Mct'AKTIII A CO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
McCiVnTHY & CO., Tobacco IVEerclxctrits,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAY MARKET), SYDNEY.
FDF
BARRY’S TRICOPHEROUS
FOR THE
HAIR
AND
SKIN.
ESTABLISHED 1801.
An elegant dressing exquisitely perfumed, removes
all impurities from the scalp, prevents baldness and
gray hair, and causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft
and Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions, dis-
eases of the skin, glands and muscles, and quickly
healing cuts, burns, bruises sprains, &c.
Caution —None genuine without the trade-mark of
Barclay & Co.. New York, atiixed to each bottle.
Cleaverb
Javenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! I
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO. SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Rruwood, Ph.D., P.1.C., F.O.S.
THE
LIGHT-RUNNING
NEW
.
lIICT
-_nn_
IIIJS?I
1
m
M
I
a-. 'Taw
I
I
i
Latest and most important improvements!
AUTOMATIC TENSION.
ENLARGED BOBBIN.
AUTOMATIC BOBBIN WINDER.
DOUBLE FEED. EXTENSION TABLE.
HIGH ARM. SELF-SETTING NEEDLE.
Simply Perfect! Perfectly Simple!
Before buying any other send for Circular.
Ask \our Storekeeper to get you one
from
J. I. Johnston & Co.
54 Bourke St. Melbourne.
746 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
167 Queen St„ Brisbane.
THE BEALE PATEHT
HIGH ARM SEWING MACHINES
Have, by their continued merits and the general
satisfaction they have invariably given, won the
first place in public esteem, and are on all sides
admitted to be the best and most useful sewing
machines in the market.
I'OK USE IF THE HOUSEHOLD
The Beale Machine presents innumerable advant-
ages, The mechanism and the adjustments are
perfect, while the working is most simple; and
the addition of all the most recent inventions and
improvements renders the manipulation of every-
thing connected with the machine a matter of
perfect ease. The result of this is, that with
ordinary care the machine will last for many
years, nothing can get out of order, and no time
is wasted in tiresome meddling with the parts.
It is a servant that will never grumble, never
rebel, never want nights out, willing even on
washing days. It only asks for a careful cleaning
now and then, a snug, dry corner and a little
genuine sewing machine oil. Any other oil will
make it sick, and dirt of all kind it abhors.
The Self-threading' Shuttle, of solid steel,
saves the trouble of threading by the end of the
cotton. It has an excellent tension, is strong and
simple.
The Bobbin Winder is a marvi 1 of in-
genuity, winding and guiding the cotton by
itself, as evenly as upon the reel whence it came,
and stopping of its own accord when the bobbin
is full.
For all kinds of family sewing and fancy the
Beale Machine has the greatest capacity.
The Improved High Arm. A great de-
sideratum with ladies has been the raising of the
arm of the machine, so as to allow the goods to be
sewn freely to pass underneath. This had to be
accomplished without increasing the weight of the
machine. In fact, the Beale runs with wonderful
ease and rapidity. It is almost silent, all clicking
sounds having been obviated. As is well known,
a good test of the finish of any mechanism is its
silence when in rapid motion.
With the Wonderful Beale Machine,
whether for hand or foot use, you can hem any
width, make double seams or fells, braid stitch
with chenille, Berlin wool, or gold cord, and such
like fancy work; you may make a pretty lace
stitch, tuck ever so finely, bind dresses, coats, or
carpets; sew on trimmings without guiding, make
frilling, ruffling, or ruching; quilt, weave your
own braid with any combination of colours and
stitch it on at the same time ; make thick, woollen
door-mats, embroidered antimacassars, window
curtains, and so forth ; you can easily and rapidly
perform the fashionable shirring or gathering so
popular for sleeves, bodies, or skirts of dresses
with an appliance supplied gratis ; lay the small
cords in hoods and stays ;do large cording; gather
with or without a band, and generally do all
kinds of straight sewing upon any material what-
ever. You can darn upon any woven goods, and
do crewel-work. The Beale Patent will pass
from eight folds of tweed or twenty of calico to
two of thinnest muslin, or even mosquito-net or
tulle, without the operator changing needle,
cotton, stitch, or tension, and the fine material
will not be gathered in the slightest. You may
make button and eyelet-holes, do over-casting,
make herring-bone stitch upon any materials.
This work is absolutely unique and can only be
accomplished upon the Beale Patent Machine.
Any of these performances will be shown at our
shops at any time. The Beale Patent makes
a lock-stitch, which cannot ravel, yet by a momen-
tary alteration the sewing can be done so as to
rip from end to end, if desired. ffhis peculiarity
is sometimes useful when children’s clothes are
intended to be altered.
Nickel-plating.—ln our climate the exposed
parts of the machine, and the applicances, need
to be protected from rust. We have, at consider-
able expense, added a handsomely nickeled wheel,
nickeled plates, screws, appliances, treadle-bar
and cones. Heightening the appearance, these
improvements also tend largely to preserve the
parts. This plating is imperishable.
A special feature of The Beale Machine is
that
ALL THE CABINET WORK
is made at our factory in Sydney from registered
designs, and of the choicest
AUSTRALIAN WOODS,
some of which are without doubt the most beauti-
ful in the world. Suitability to the climate is
thus insured, and we are enabled to offer a greater
variety of styles, most handsome in design and
conveniently fitted for all the requirements of a
lady’s work-table.
These machines can be inspected at any time at
our principal show-rooms in Sydney, or at any of
our suburban and country branch shops, or from
travellers who are continually visiting all parts.
All the machines may be had upon easy tnne-
navment, or for cash less three shillings in th*
pound.
Photographs, Price-Lists and Samples
FREE BY POST.
No matter where you live, we will supply
you with a Sewing Machine upon easy Time-
Payment.
Beale and Company,
Chief Offices and Show-rooms,
402& 484; G-eorge Street,
SYDNEY.
Branch offices at
80 Beattie Street, Balmain,
451 Oxford Street, Paddington,
309 King Street, Newtown,
Mount Street, North Sydney,
127 Regent Street, Redfern,
.Junction Road, Summer HH
Also,
New South Wales.
a
o ®
£ 2
jo« .Co sH
Corowa
Armidale
Tarec
W. Maitland
Goulburn
Bourke
Wellington
Orange
Inverell
Kempsey
Dubbo
Uni hurst
Wa»a Wag**
Muclgee
Grafton
Cootarnundi»
Wiloannia
Parramatta
•ptroxsuoont)
Brisbane
nhurtew Ttowera
Oympie
Ipswich
Townsville.
Rockhampton
Toowoomba
How the Reverend Joseph Simmondsen
Lost His Character.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Th» Rev. Joseph Simmondsen had been appointed
by his bishop to a cure of souls in the Far North
in the days when North Queensland was an
ungodly and unsanctified place. Naturally, the
Rev, J., who was young, green, and zealous, saw
a direct mission sticking out in front of him. His
predecessor had never gone twenty miles outside
the little seaport that formed the commercial out-
let of the district; but this did not suit Joseph’s
eager temperament. Once he felt his footing and
gained a little experience, he determined on a
lengthened tour that should embrace the uttermost
limits of his fold.
Now, although beset with the conceit and prig-
gishness inseparable from the early stages of par-
sonhood, Simmondsen was not a bad fellow, and
glimpses of his manly nature would at times peep
out in spite of himself. This, without his know-
ledge, ensured him a decent welcome, and he got
a good distance inland under most favourable
auspices, the weather being fine, everybody willing
to lend him a horse or drive him on to the next
station on his route. The Rev, Joseph began to
think that the roughness of the Never Never
country had been much exaggerated.
In due course he arrived at a station which we
will call Upton Downs; beyond it there were only
a few newly-taken-up stations. On Upton Downs
they were busy mustering, and when the parson
enquired about his way for the next day the
manager looked rather puzzled. “You see,” he
said, “ we are rather short-handed, and I can’t
spare a man to send with you ; at the same time
the track from here to Gundewarra is not very
plain, and I am afraid you might not be able to
follow it. However, I will see what I can do.”
Mr. Simmondsen was retiring to rest that night
when a whispered conversation made itself audible
in the next room. No words could be distin-
guished, but from the sounds of smothered
laughter a good joke seemed to be in progress.
“ I think I can manage for you,” said thesuper-
intendent at breakfast the next morning. “ When
you leave here you will go to Gundewarra, 25
miles. From there it is 35 miles to Bilton’s Camp
and 10 on to Blue Grass. From Blue Grass you
can come straight back here across the bush about
40 miles. I will lend you a blackboy who knows
the country well and will see you back here
safely.”
The young clergyman thanked his host, and,
after breakfast, prepared to leave. The blackboy,
a good-looking little fellow got up in clean moles
and twill shirt, was in attendance with a led
pack-horse, and the two departed.
For some miles the reverend J oseph improved
the occasion by a little pious talk to the boy, who
spoke fairly good English and showed a white set
of teeth when he laughed, as he Constantly did at
everything the parson said. At midday they
camped for an hour on the bank of a lagoon, and
Mr. Simmondsen went in and had a refreshing
swim.
In the evening they arrived at their destination,
and received the usual welcome.
“ I see you adapt yourself to the customs of the
country,” said his host that evening, and a slight
titter went round the table. The reverend
Joseph joined in, taking it for granted that his
somewhat unclerical rig was alluded to. In reply
to his enquiries he was informed that Bilton’s
Camp was a pretty rough shop, and Blue Grass
even worse; and he was pleased to hear it, for up
to now his path had been too pleasant altogether;
he hadn’t hrd a chance to reprove anybody.
Bilton’s Camp proved to be a very rough place.
The men were civil, however, and as the parson
had had another exhilarating bath at the midday
camp he appreciated the rude fare that was set in
front of him, although here, as at the other place,
there seemed to be a joke floating about that made
everybody snigger.
The next day’s journey was but a short stage to
Blue Grass, and as he had by this time become
very friendly with Charley, the black-boy, the
two rode along chatting together until they came
somewhat unexpectedly on the new camp.
A very greasy cook and two or three gins in
dilapidated shirts were the only peopfe at home,
and they stood open-eyed to gr< et the stranger.
Although Simmondsen had suited his garb to
his surroundings, he still retained enough of the
clerical element to signify his profession. The
cook, therefore, dropped to the situation and
invited the parson in, under the tarpaulin that
was doing temporary duty as a hut.
He informed his visitor, at whom he looked
rather curiously, that everybody was away,
camped out, and would not return for a couple of
days; that he was alone, excepting for two men
who were at work at a yard a short distance away,
and who would be in to dinner; in fact, they
came up while he was speaking. Simmondsen
took great interest in this, the first real outside
camp he had seen, and as the two bushmen had
gone down to the creek for a wash, and the cook
was busy preparing a meal, he called Charley to
ask him a few questions.
“ What do these black women do about the
place, Charley?”
“O! all about missus belongah whitefellow,”
was the astounding reply.
It was some moments before Joseph could grasp
the full sense of this communication ; then he con-
sidered it his duty to read these sinners a severe
lecture, and prepared one accordingly.
“Do you not understand,” he said, when the
three men were together, “the trespass you are
committing against both social and Divine laws?
If you do not respect one, perhaps you will the
other.”
The cook stared at the bushmen in blank amaze-
ment, and the bushmen stared at the cook.
“ I allude to these unfortunate and misled
beings,” said the parson, waving his hand towards
the half-clad gins.
A roar of laughter was the reply. “ Blessed if
that doesn’t come well from you,” said the cook,
when he could speak. The others chuckled in
acquiescence.
“What do you mean?” said the indignant
Joseph; “ I speak by right of my office.”
“Sit down and have some tucker,” said the
cook. “You’re not a bad sort, I can see, but
don’t come the blooming innocent ”
The indignant pastor refused. He saw that his
words were treated lightly, that no one would
listen to him, and he left in high dudgeon. Charley
had told him that there was a good lagoon about
12 miles on the road back to Upton Downs; he
would go on there and camp—they had plenty of
provisions on the pack-horse; and taking his
bridle and calling the boy he went to catch his
horse.
As he came back he overheard the fag end of a
remark the cook was making to the others. “ They
came round the end of the scrub chatting as thick
as thieves, and when I seed who it was—-Lord !
you could have wiped me out with one hand.”
This was worse than Greek to the Reverend.
Greek he might have understood. In spite of a
clumsy apology from the delinquent, he departed
and near sundown arrived at the lagoon Charley
had spoken of. It was a lovely spot. One end was
thick with broad-leaved water-lilies, but there was
a clear patch at the other end promising the swim
the good parson enjoyed so much.
When the tent was pitched he stood in Nature’s
garb about to enter the water when Charley called
to him. Pointing towards the lilies he told Sim-
mondsen that he would get him some seed-pods
that the blacks thought splendid eating.
The clergyman had only got up to his waist
before he heard a plunge behind him and
saw Charley’s dark form half splashing,
half swimming towards the lilies. Presently
his head emerged from a dive, and he
beckoned to Simmondsen to come over and taste
the aboriginal luxury. The Reverend paddled
lazily over and investigated. The seed - pods
proved of very pleasant flavour, and as the sun
was nearly down, Simmondsen wended his way to
the bank and emerged in the shallow water, with
Charley a few paces behind him. For some
reason he looked back. Since the temptation of
St. Anthony never had pious preacher been in a
worse predicament. There was no shirking the
fact; all the quiet laughter about “ the customs of
the country,” the unexplainable allusions, the
ribald manner of the cook, were evident at a flash.
Charley was a woman !
The wicked superintendent of Upton Downs
had started him on his travels with a black gin
dressed in boy’s clothes as a valet, and that gin
had evidently been recognised by everybody on
the road. He thought of the past and blushed.
That night was spent in prayer.
.••••*
“My dear sir,” said Davis, the super, of Upton
Downs, “I did the best I could for you. Char-
lotte is as good as any blackboy and knows all the
country round here. Now, own up, did not she
look after you well ?”
“You forget the scandal that may arise, said
Simmondsen. . ,
“ Lord, man ! who cares about what is done out
here ? Nobody will ever hear of it.”
Davis was wrong. Everybody did hear of it.
Simmondsen received indignant letters from ms
Bishop, his church-wardens, the reverend Mr.
Wriggle, the West Australian missionary, several
missionary societies, and, last and worst, a
letter of eternal farewell from the young lady
to whom he was engaged. Fortunately he in-
herited a bit of money at the time, so he did
the best thing possible—threw up the church,
went into squatting, and is now one of the most
popular men in the district.
JACK FRUIT.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
1b
w
H
X
7i
EUREKA \
ELECTRIC BE,
i
BELTH
A
a
IV
m
tr.
-\lv,
\
A NEVER FAILING- CUBE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.,,
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
»nd all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 80 daya
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a2d stamp for
postage.
Address : — VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P, 0., Sydney.
MAR'S HALL'S
TONIC NERVINE
-
THE GRAND TOILET CLUB, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney
(opposite Tram Waiting Room). W. MORRIS (late of
Truefitt’s, London) To the Gentlemen of Sydney; In
catering for your patronage, I desire to direct your atten-
tion to the elegance and comfort of my Hairdressing
Saloons, and respectfully solicit a visit, feeling assured I
shall give you every satisfaction.
BOOTS
INDIGESTION
CURE
'''.*■ \ - , ' ]
PRESCRIBED by a legally-qualified Medical
Practitioner for the past Fifty Years. It is
Not a “Cure All,”
but an absolute Cure for
INDIGESTION.
Symptoms Flatulence, Biliousness, Vomiting,
Diarrhoea, Headache, Colic, Drowsiness, Low-
ness of Spirits, Heartburn, Pains in the Chest,
Dizziness, Offensive Breath, Backache, Pains
between the Shoulder Blades, Disagreeable Taste
in the Mouth, and disorders of the Digestive
Organs.
TRY IT AND PROVE IT.
Sold Everywhere.
Wholesale Agents : —
Messrs. Elliott Bros. Ltd., Sydney.
Australian Drug Co., Sydney.
Messrs. Hoefnung and Co., Sydney.
Laboratory : - 35 Susses Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM BOOT, Proprietor.
Miscellaneous.
GK XZ. SMXTXZ & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—SOLE AOENTS FOR—
HENRY HEATH, 605, 607, 609 Oxford Street, LONDON.
DF
IE IIsPS
OF EVERY KIND.
Ladies’Club Straw Hats for Yachting, lioal ingan Tennis.
G O L D E N S H AN T Y.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
A>
patent
PILLS
m
£
&
*
Medical,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
Bleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
„ . . in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
F&r females of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and *■ ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. lid. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
KRUPP
&LVAN
Chain
ic
DFD
8!
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
and old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure For Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances tor both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, prkb,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
JSP" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 617, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S. W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Price One Shilling.
Bound in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. 6d., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
Business Announcements.
rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
-* Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which cap be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
IST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
The best Australian books to send to
friends abroad are The Bulletin’s
11 HISTORY of BOTANY BAY,”
Illustrated by Livingston Hopkins and
Phil. May—post-free to any Australian
address for Is. 3d. in stamps : and
“A Golden Shanty,”
Tales and sketches in prose and verse
from The Bulletin —post-free to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Queensland purchasers supplied by J.
H. Thompson, bookseller, George-street,
Brisbane. Now in the press and will
shortly be published,
" Tales of the Australian Mot System!”
Prom The Bulletin, by “ Price Waning.”
Wv Vi
ROSES
m
o
Ar
o!^
&V§
LOtl
B
S^T
THE ONLY!
[RELIABLE
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Fast 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
m
r
(
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
G
kUCH
INC
PO
3MK*
6V
JjMES ChAN/VO/U S/arbourS*
ln/ all Ssif CeU * SSoreAeeforro
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
249 PITT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall's.
Porpoise Hide Wears Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Loudon Fashiona,
AND
Fresh Goods Every Fortnight.
LOOK for the BOW-MAN on the WINDOW.
GOUT & RHEUMATIC
THE GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY FOR
Gout, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago. & Neuralgia.
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured in a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
These Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Front & Co., 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d.
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonies.
WILLIAM CARGILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
mm
T?-
:-trl „
40.000 in Use. Record, 179 words per niiinito.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will not
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 flrst-olsss copies at one operation. Agents—
SYDNEY: J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizabeth-st. ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE ; Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Lyon & Blair.
♦ Wanted to send for particulars of (English)
J Tansy IMlls, which are better -than Steel or
e Pennyroyal. Cures obstructions from whatever
♦ cause. Never fails. No pills or powders like
J them. Particulars free. [Mention this paper.
♦ W. Cavendish. P.O. Box 161, Melbourne.
E PPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING-
COCO A.
DE LISSM
UN
PHILLIPS;
a^Ht?
FD
ROYAL HOTEL,
BOURKE, 3M.S.W.
S. C. DAVIS ... PROPRIETOR.
.A.. 18. STEWAE T ,
—The Only Queensland Sports Depot-
-29 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Importer of Football, Cricket, Lawn Tennis Goods,
and all Athletic Requisites.
Lawn Tennis Racquets Made, Repaired and Re-strung on
the Shortest Notice.
TOBACCO, CIGARS and CIGARETTES.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
—BY —
“BULLETIN” WRITERS.
PRICE ... ONE SHILLING.


HUDSON BROS.
WINDMILLS and complete IRRIGATION PLANTS.
The ‘Clyde* Six-screw «S Eight-furrow Ploughs,
With Patent Malleable, Reversible Shares,
With or without Governor Steerage, the most rapid
Cultivators yet Known.
The ‘Clyde’ Single, Double and Treble-furrow
Ploughs
Hold FIRST PLACE in the Market.
The ‘Clyde’ Digging Ploughs,
With Patent, Reversible Shares, without a rival in the
field.
The ‘Clyde’ K 1 Hay Press (New)
CHEAPEST, STONGEST and BEST FARMER’S PRESS-
Horse-Gears, ChafTeulfers,
And every kind of Farm Implement of best Design.
Jgp" Ask for HUDSON'S Plough Shares.
Hudson Brothers, Ltd.,
ENGINEERS, IRONFOU N D E R S,
TIMBER MERCHANTS, JOINERS,
CLYDE WORKS, GRANVILLE,
UsT.S.W.
Illustrated Catalogues Free, by post.
3XT O ID “UL t, 3T.
(LIMITED),
OlycaLcs, IM.S.T7V.
—Manufacturers of-
BOLLINGEZt’S CHAMPAGNE
TDZRAT EXTEA QUALITY.
SOLE AGENTS for NEW SOUTH WALES-
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4? Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
< Xji i xaa. £. t; & «c3L )
f'l)
Mm : : AfKJi
a®
s IS£
v f
m
A
ART FURNISHERS,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Now Supply the General Public as well as the Trade. Illustrated Catalogues and Price Lists on Application.
FDF
a X'
M
I
m
« v >11,7 11
SK
•V
DF
m
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers <md of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
a Trade Mark—“ White Hose” on “Golden J
““ Lyre,’ ’ with Address in fuh.
The Marvel of the Age!
»r
‘ k
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cures “ Barcooßot"
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Farmers
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale;
Australian Drug Co.
it is ills a JEill.
RaowleV Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&cs. f &cs, f &c.
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, HXT.S.'W.
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
wwwm $
■mm
■ *
Westlnglioiise Kiiglncs.
SJBwltiSiH
m
m
LJL_
ups
Qd
r
M
II
if.'
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES,—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING! PRESURE.—3O lbs. per square inch.
BEST MI T D STEEL PLACES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes.
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street oii "<i Sydney.
ColMns-street, Melbourne.
DF
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
DF
DFD
F
DF
DF
