

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A ITKEN'S ALE DICKENS’ W
Y
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THIS BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
A\» SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN STONKV.
HARRISON & ATT WOOD, 251 George-st.,, Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. G-. WATKINS &> CO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, IBUIILIDIEIRS’ & G-EITEEAL X^02sT3VC02SrC3-^]^^'-
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ewr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
o
&
s
O
N
&
O
o
&
&£p AtS
Dog’s Head
ALE & STOUT.
JULES RENARO & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
rx.
2
o*
fH£
sxl°
-”V>
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
K.Z , the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen's Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG- F E L T WAN T.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
' TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
j, «S£ o. HOWARD.
„ South. Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Slanttleworth,.
Sole Agents m J;vevv
iLh automatic expansion
heater.
. L~r- : r~CLAVTI*C» SHUllLt*o^’. 19 7 -
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
- IS*
IMPUOVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
.Specially built to suit the rc'iuircmeiits of N.S.VV,
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Sic k' Cylinder, Boukle (.'i Under, and Coinjionnd Portable and Semi-I’m tank' Lupines,
il n'i/oniul Ikisdnes ot nil efcuwes : rnderl vpe KnjJne- : Uoik i- ot all kinds. _
Portable masking Ma hinesl of all sizes a .Spu-ialily : Kit'atoiS ; IjawHendits.
Portable steam-power fhall-i-ullitu and Onuunn; Matlnm-s 101 table ste • ■ -po'Ai» out slid ■t-
COM POUND UNDEKTVFE FIXED ENGINE
AND
l,"i 'OMOTJVE EOILEJ’.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINE*, WINDING ENGINES, TItMTION
.t & C. Howard, 2SO a
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 12—No. 659.]
[Saturday, October 1, 1892.


PIERCE’S
' Tufliu I
BCUT
3J... (BjL' J
P) TRADE MAK
WEAK MEN.
“I>r. IMerce’s Galvanic
Cbaiu Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and only perfect body
battery now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
PARTS and restores them to
Health and Vigorous Strength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best!
Send for Pamphlet No. SS.Wash. H. Soul &Co,
Sydney, and Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents.
MASHETIO ELAS. TSUSS CO., San Francisco, V.B.A.
ows
EMBROCATION
t /
J.'r' .
/
&
SOLD
X'
3/S
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
MALTO-
QUINIA
AGUE,
DEBILITY,
INFLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS,
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AS
A Cure for
ETC.
WINE.
Wholesale Agents;
LANGE <sc THONEMAN
MELBOURNE.
MEN
Address: Paris
WHY WILL YOU SUFFER from
NERVOUS WASTING and
DEBILITATING DISEASES which
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN-
HOOD ? You may now cure yourselves
without CONSULTING a DOCTOR.
Send Six Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing - the
French method of QUICK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-OURE.
■an Agency Co., Bos 766, Sydney.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS and INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. War. Johnstone
Ph.D., F. 0.5., <&c,, Public Analysts.
■DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON’S
STOUT
Ds LISSA
and PHILLIPS,
•;* ■ «*£*' • /
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
manhood.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
hi Lour Weeks by the use of
10 s *t*CORJ0s
J/ie only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
•ud unprecedented success throughout the world.
f haH,r,%°nfj di S -V', Ce , restores manhood to the most
rnatteied and debilitated constitutions, regenerating all the
'fZfrntVl e T ntS °S the human frame, and enable? man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations .
cas ?. s °SJ2*-. or four quantities in one for 36s. Freight
°” TCC u pt addressed envelope
* c ° ' 73 S'*™' Si ’£‘
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
>
Sold in Paris by
J. FE R R 3E3,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 103 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Urns' MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
rrm;rrirs,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
.A-Ticnsrsonsr’s
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
t. Tra
&
STEELE’S GALVANIC
gents belt
%
ELECTRIC BELTS. “^|
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, &c. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of £2—
registered letter, post-order, or cheque. When ordering
Belt send waist measure above the hips.
Druggist. H. P. SABIEL, Chemist.
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 78 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
For Consumption use
&Ti Sws
THEONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
_ » r '-i >■• V?"*
EXTRACT IN THEiWORID
Manufactory :
Cootannmdra, M.B.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid, to
any of the Australasian colonies.
J
{IS
Aj
1 { \/
Min’s “MBT MU” Escalyptus 111
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUENZA,
always keep a bottle of Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand Eucalyptus Oil by you and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
It Is a Germ Killer.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser—a few drops mixed
with water—and steam the apartment. INHALE THE STEAM if there be
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles.
(..)
Dr. BRENDON CURGENVEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.”
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “J. Bosisto, Richmond,” are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for
BOSISTO’S PARROT BB.A.KTD.
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe,
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton, of 3XTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTEB ° Proprietress.
m*
»
ii
k imm
•mm ,/fi
l!
ll
Bp
- %
H
1 is I
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., Eng.
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
located at
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
My life-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
Diseases. No experimenting, hoth Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY. FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Tvihiurl n?.^.i! 1 c d if C c eti 1 o f , o E^ Ss . 0r J n^ u i gc : nce ’ Producing some of the following effects-Nervousness,
Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
i cmales. Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, ITnfitness to Marry,
Meiancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN" DISEASES
f P ° dy ’ ?°, se ' Throat > Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Seres, Ulcers,
£wniipn Tnfnll f’i whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Memedies. Stiff and
worms v i n¥rnrift Sm r ™,™ of . « 1 2 0 d Poison ’ CI ' MED - Soft-feeling bunch of earth-like
worms \ A®ICOCELE, _ 18 CURABBG VTSTfiHOSJT OlPKfft ATIOiV by Surgeon
Varicocele 8 "- th loubl1 oubl . e cO P P and su PP ort > the on, y safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, price *£2. Constitutional or Acquired W eakuesses of both Sexes treated successfully. It nature
be S st a Se r d e ies V spilepS-'5 pilepS -' • or fallin S sickliess radically cured. I use only the
ere nspiess and „«!?!!! unskilful pretender* and specious promised cure-alls— they
Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with
TfMtmmr knowing what to do, US o Experiments are made. Home
a dlstance can be successfully treated at home.
*nd £ can by forwarding particulars of their case
wl.ere f treat “ ent by return post. IBefore confiding- your case else-
: V Ml Specialist, fUBOXOI MAXISTOS. Age
add Golden Hf A t# f, ’ , «' n « II V letter or call may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden yeais to life. HT© mercury or poisonous drug’s used.
SURGED
131 COLLINS STREET,
N - B -—The Only Qualified Surgeon piactising as a
Appointments.
.R.G.8., &c„
MELBOURNE.
Specialist who has held Government
CON SULTATION FREE.
u
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
sPOONS & FORKS
UOX 1034 G P O
W_
Inspection Invited.
TELEPHONE 9T3.
&,
RECEIVE WEEKLY
FROM THEIR SHEFFIELD MANUFACTORY
ALL THE CHOICEST DESIGNS IN
ssonsrs
ELECTRO-PLATE and CUTLERY GOODS.
KSP A MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION, SUITABLE FOR
SP OPTS, PRESENTATION S, S 111 P, CLU B, II OT E L an d EAM I L Y USE
ALWAYS ON VIEW AT THEIR SHOW-ROOMS:
EMPIRE CHAMBERS—93 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at London, Edinburgh and Melbourne.
SPOONS & FORKS


Cadbury’s cocoa
&111
l ’ ; >^N
H
m
y.
2S
k!)BU
m
Hi Wm
m
i;> ; r?- : .->
m
% \
m
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
CADBURY'S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the snpei abundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
supplying a refined thin infusion ol absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
An Episode in the Life of a Man of
Pleasure.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
n . needs both courage and cynicism to bo
on° nc , Man 0 f Pleasure. Mr. George
a sUCC qjg had as much of each of these qualities
, r;
N ; 0 r opera, or burlesque which bad run
ne'V, dl ' w ' London, was produced in Melbourne,
itself OU t" snowy, diamond-studded shirt-front
the s»P a< £ .-vine was always a conspicuous orna-
of dress-circle. Personally lie was rather
meat ol tn at _ if not looked at too closely,
pleasant t , rft aru j florid, bis chin comfortably
his eves light-blue in colour, with bags
double > ' • y cr y significant, these little bags,
under tuu them un der the eyes of an ascetic.
°r“ e Crville’s mouth was coarse, but when he
Mr. sonic j i as he did on small excuse,
° pe ffect was cheery. Altogether he gave
the -Session of a man who lived well, in the
tho wnhvsical sense, and would continue to do
SO as long as possible, or make trouble for sorae-
b0 tt y ' was not, and did not pretend to be, an
■ ■ S You may see a dozen such men on first
•rlclnf operatic burlesque especially) in either
u’g" ts L Sydney. Popular fellows they are,
' le b nml admirable' critics of the female form
D°>. Fathers of families, and other anchorites
t "like description, would be astonished at and
n =i for the depth of their own ignorance on the
i vVt if they could hear some of these gentlemen
i Id forth upon it in convivial moments.
|IOIU # * #
rpho first night of the Gaiety Burlesque
ipason in Melbourne was oyer, and the Fashion
i Vollv „f the Southern city were foaming down
?i Stairs of the Princess Theatre in a many-
th,® ,;i c l cataract, Mr. Somerville, whose glitter-
M front was concealed by a light overcoat,
S billowing down among the rest with a lady
itis side. He gave her his arm when they
Inched the bottom of tiie stairs, and the two
,® ]WI along the line of cabs in front of the
JeaS. Apparently lie had a cab of his own at
flip further end, .
Suddenly he felt a touch upon his disengaged
mi He turned and saw—for there was no lack
nfUehts— a tall young woman, dressed in black,
and with a pale face, which contrasted pitifully
with the vivacity and gaiety around her.
“George,” she said in firm though miserable
tones, “I must speak to you at once—it may be
for the last time.” , , , ,
If Mr. Somerville bad given expression to what
was passing through his mind as he listened to her
sueech she would have been blasted where she
stood. But he was a man whose nerves were
eciual to an even greater strain than this. So he
replied calmly : “You have made a mistake, my
good girl. I am the wrong George.”
" \Vith this remark he was about to pass on when
the vcmng woman, stepping a pace in front of him
so that the light fell full upon her features, ex'-
claimed bitterly, “George Somerville, do you
mean to say that you don’t know this f aceagam ?
But you are capable of even that lie. I lien .1
will let this young woman who is with you know
who I am, so that you shan’t make of her what
you have made of me.”
Mr. Somerville whispered to the lady, whose
hand was trembling on his arm—“ This poor
creature is evidently either mad or drunk. I
must humour her or she will make a scene. I’ll
leave you in the cab a minute, my dear, while I
try to get rid of her.” Then turning to the pale
young woman he said, “I’llsee you when I’ve put
this lady in a cab.”
“ Very well,” was the reply in a softer voice,
“I will stay here till you return.”
Mr. Somerville returned, walking swiftly.
“ Well,” he said, regarding the girl with a hard,
ferocious stare —even a Man of Pleasure can be
■unpleasant now and then when he is annoyed—
“ what the h is it you want ?”
“Ob, George, forgive me —I didn’t mean to
offend yon, but I was mad. I have been mad for
weeks past. I have written over and over again
to you but never got a word of reply. And I’ve
watched and watched for you but couldn’t meet
you till to-night. And I had to take this chance.”
The girl spoke rapidly—vehemently. The man
—his rage had cooled down and turned into ice—
listened as to a tale that concerned somebody else,
“ What is it you want? ” he repeated harshly.
“ Oh, God ! ” cried the girl wringing her hands,
“ ho asks me what I want after all that we have
been to each other, and after my writing and tell-
ing him a score of times ! Don t you know what
is going to happen to me ? ” —this last sentence in
a fierce whisper.
“ I think you are likely to have a fit if you carry
on in this way,” he said.
And more of the kind, ending in the girl ex-
claiming passionately : “ God’s curse and mine on
you, George Somerville, and may you meet the
fate to which you are sending me and your unborn
child ! ”
Whereupon she turned and walked away with
a white, haggard face, and Mr. Somerville re-
turned to the cab in which he had left the other
young woman. Ho endeavoured to be entertain-
ing to the latter on their way, but the attempt
was not particularly successful. His temper had,
without doubt, been ruffled by the late incident.
And a Man of Pleasure hates to have his temper
ruffled.
# # *
About a fortnight afterwards, Mr. Somer-
ville‘was again at the theatre—this time with a
male friend. The latter, as they came out, observed
with a laugh : “That was a nice dramatic little
scene, Somerville, in which you played the part of
the hero—or was it the villain, the Wicked
Baronet! —a few nights back, somewhere about
here.” Then he added meditatively to himself :
“ Wonder how it is that they never seem to be
able to do these things so naturally on the stage !
But I suppose it’s because they know they’re only
acting.”
Mr. Somerville kept his temper marvellously.
He had reasons of his own for doing so in this
instance.
# m *
They made a night of it—himself and his
friend. When they parted in the small hours,
Mr. Somerville carrried away in his pocket his
revenge for the other’s clumsy raillery. He also
carried away in his ample interior more liquor
than was good for him. He was aware of this,
but excused himself to himself on the ground that
he had sacrificed his principles in the interests of
his business —which was, as we have said before,
Pleasure. Nevertheless, bethought fit, instead of
going straight home to bed, to light-a last cigar
and stroll down to Prince’s Bridge, with a view of
cooling his head in the night air. But his head
was more heated than he thought, and so, in order
to cool it off thoroughly, he sauntered along the
Embankment till he came to where he was nearly
in a line with a handsome building standing on
the road. . . ,
He wondered vaguely, muzzily, what this build-
ing was. Then he recollected all at once. It was
the Morgue. And just below him was the Yarra.
He was between the two. The idea amused him,
and he chuckled and laughed boisterously—
drunkenly. Then the fancy seized him to look
close at the Yarra.
# * »
There is a deadly fascination about this
river of suicides and mysterious murders. On
nights when there is but the ghost of a wan
moon in the sky, and the stars shining on the
surface of the black stream look like the eyes of
the drowned staring up from below, it is well not
to go too near the Yarra if one has any reason for
feeling dissatisfied with life.
Mr. Somerville had no such reason —or, if ho
had, he was not aware of the fact —and yet he felt
a strange impulse to bend over and see his face in
the water, A fatal impulse. His head, top-heavy
with wine, began to reel, the stars in the sky
danced wildly round, and then heplunged suddenly
downwards, and all at once it seemed to linn
that all the waters of the river were pouring and
roaring down his throat and through his nostrils,
eyes, and ears. He was half-stunned, but when
he came to the surface ho knew what had
occurred. He had fallen into the river and was
about to be drowned, unless a miracle happened,
because he wasn’t able to swim. He had come up
many yards away from the bank. He flung his arms
up wildly—as is the foolish fashion of people who
are not able to swim, under the impression, it
would seem, that it is possible to hoist themselves
out of the water —and screamed hoarsely, but, of
course, nobody beard him. Down once more
this time with full knowledge of the dreadful
thing that was happening to him.
Then began a terrible silent struggle under the
calm face of that slow-gliding river. Mountains
seemed to press upon the chest of the man below
—his ribs stood out as though they would burst
through his skin—his eyes, which were like balls
of fire, seemed about to start out of his head—he
bit at the cruel water in his agony.
And again, and all at once, he felt the sweet,
fresh air of the night upon his brow, and saw the
beautiful sky of heaven—ah, so beautiful and holy
—once more. But only for a moment. With a
wild shriek of despair he sank for the second time.
The previous tortures were repeated, but made
more horrible by the torture of his thoughts. He
was drowning—dying at the bottom of a drain
like a dog—and leaving all his pleasant life behind
him—to go Where ? Ah, God, Where? He tried
to pray, hut even in that awful moment he could
remember nothing but the chorus of an idiotic
song he had heard sung at the theatre that same
night—ages ago and millions of miles away in
another planet. .
The chorus rang wildly in his brain, and he was
once more at the theatre, looking at the mad dance
which accompanied the song. What limbs the
dancer had! And that other girl! But no-he
himself was the dancer, and all those faces—
cruel, leering, lustful faces —faces of satyrs his
own face repeated a thousand times—were gloating
on him. Heavens! would the dance never stop?.
Must he keep on dancing for ever, while the stage
was on fire and he was suffocating in the smoke ?
Must he die and go to meet his Maker, dancing
and singing that idiotic chorus?
# * *
These, and thousands of other thoughts,
whirled through the brain of the drowning man—
not in single file, but, as it seemed, hundreds
abreast. And all the time he knew that he was
on the point of death, and—if the doctrines of any
one of the creeds of earth were true —on the thres-
hold of the gates of hell ! Yet among the myriads
of thoughts which filled his brain to bursting,
there was not one that was spiritual, or even
contrite. Theatre parties, oyster suppers, cards,
the Flemington racecourse, with the horses tearing
down the straight in the Cup race, and his own
horse leading by a length, days of dissipation and
nights of debauchery—these the things he
thought of in his last moments. Dreadful but
true is that saying ot Anselm —“ God hath pro-
mised pardon to him that repenteth, but He hath
not promised repentance to him that sinneth.”
* * *
What was it that the girl said to him out-
side the theatre that night—a curse, wasn’t it ?
Ah, yes—a troublesome wretch of a girl she was,
and ho was well rid of her. But was this the
fate she spoke of ? No doubt it was. If he could
only clutch her by the throat now for one little
minute, how he would strangle the life out of
her! And he clutched with his tense fingers at
the bottom of the sti’eam and seized upon some-
thing to which he held with the grip of death.
Was it a snag? He knew not. Something burst
in his brain at this moment and a dumb, half-
conscious agony, like that of a man dying in his
sleep, succeeded.
* * *
Once more he came to life. The stara
were shining above him, and the breeze of night
was playing on his ooze-stained, bleeding fore-
head. He felt at rest —calm, and almost sleepy-
What was that building over there? Ah, the
Morgue. He had escaped fi’ora it after all. A
great joke. One might laugh at it if one did not
feel so tired.
But who had drawn him out of the water ? And
what was being done with him? What was the
meaning of this slow, gliding motion, and why did
he feel so cold ? A thrill of horror ran through
his heart like a dagger. He seemed to realise in a
moment that he had been dragged out of the river
nights and nights ago, and had been declared
dead by the doctors. And now they were about
to dissect him—while all the time he was alive
but unable to speak or move. It was the marble
slab in the Morgue which made him feel so cold.
He was stretched out upon it. The doctors were
opening their cases of instruments. A group of
medical students were standing around to
hear a lecture upon his internal organs. The
wretched, gibbering apes ! If he were only alive
again he would break them by couples across his
knee, and make the doctors lectuye on their
carcases for his benefit.
* -# *
Alive! But lie was alive. Certainly if they
stuck any of those ugly-looking instruments into
him they would be guilty of murder, and he would
see that they were hanged for it—the whole gang
of them, cut throat doctors, and gibbering apes of
medical students. If he could only shriek ! This
agony was worse than that which he had passed
through down in the ooze under the surface of the
black water. So the Morgue had got him in the
end.
* * *
He had swooned. When he recovered his
senses came to him and ho saw that he was float-
ing down the mid-stream of the Yarra, supported
by something the nature of which he could not


“There are no bad regiments, only bad
colonels. ” —N A POLE ON.
Wolfe's Schnapps.— Sternly refuse imitations.
The Sydney Mint, since its establishment
in May, 18q5, up to Dec. ’9l. has received for
coinage .£70,337,829 worth of gold.
Wolfe's Schnapps— Soothing and invigorating.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps
According to the Argus leader-writer (3x-d
Sept.), the British empire is now run by forty
criminals.
Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
In the race for the great prize
Wolfe's Schnapps takes the lead.
of Popularity
debility and dyspepsia. Wolfe’s Schnapps.
df
mf&sSi
fM
mm
1
gg#
mm
m
\
*
r
-I£ZE=-^
..■:.r
M.
S
o
ytirzncA*
make out on account of the darkness. But never
mind what it was. If it were the ugliest snag
that ever stuck in the bed of the river he would
take it home with him and have it polished till it
shone like marble, and place it in his rooms in a
place of honour for Ids friends to see. That would
surely be the least he could do for the object which
had saved his life.
For, of course, he would soon be rescued. The
moon shone out clearly for a few minutes and be
looked with curiosity at the thing which was bear-
ing him back in safety to his life of pleasure.
What was this under Ids eyes ? Long black
weeds? No, hair —the hair of a drowned woman.
She was floating with her face downwards so that
he could not see it. He was satisfied that it was
so. She had saved Ids life, but she couldn’t be a
very pretty sight to see just then. On second
thoughts, ho would give up the idea of taking
home the thing which had saved him and placing
it in a place of honour for his friends to see. How
damned cold the water was !
# # *
As he and It—a dreadful word It when
applied to a human body ! —drew near Princes’
Bridge he cried out for help. The policeman on
the bridge heard him, and, before many minutes
had passed by, he was dragged out of the river
along with his ghastly companion.
“ You will have to attend the inquest, sir,” said
the policeman taking his address.
“Of course, but now I want some brandy and a
cab,” he replied impatiently.
As it happened to be market morning there was
no trouble in getting the brandy. In Melbourne
certain hotels are permitted to open in the middle
of the night, or shortly after, on market morn-
ings. A hansom was also obtained with little
difficulty, and Mr. Somerville went home to bed.
# # *
He explained, frankly at the inquest how
fie had fallen into the river. He had taken too
much wine that night and had 'walked along the
embankment thinking to cool his bead before
-•etiring to rest. He cooled it more than he had
mtended to. (Laughter in the court). He thought
ohat his struggles at the bottom must have dis-
lodged the corpse from a snag in which it had been
;aught. That was all he knew about the matter.
The coroner said that the theory of the witness
ts to the corpse being caught by a snag was pro-
oably correct. The body had evidently been in the
•vater nearly a fortnight and would have risen to
he surface before if something had not held it
iown.
The witness was then asked to look at the corpse
and to state whether he recognised it as the body
of anyone whom be knew.
Mr. Somerville gazed at the face tor a moment.
It was, all things taken into consideration, very
little disfigured—but still! And to think that he
could have been in love with and kissed and called
That beautiful at one time ! The thought made
him shudder.
“ No, sir,” he said to the coroner, “ I never saw
her in my life before.”
VICTOR J. DALEY.
In Defence of the Bush.
In Answer to Various Bards.
Well, I’ve waited mighty patient while they all
came rolling in,
Mister Lawson, Mister Dyson, and the others of
their kin,
With their dreadful, dismal stories of the Over-
lander’s camp,
How his fire is always smoky, and his boots are
always damp;
And they paint it so terrific it would fill one’s
soul with gloom,
But you know they’re fond of writing, about
“corpses ” and “ the tomb.”
So, before they curse the bushland they should let
their fancy range,
And take something for their livers, and be cheer-
ful for a change.
Now, for instance, Mister Lawson—well, of course,
we almost cried
At the sorrowful description Itow his “little
’Arvie ” died.
And we wept in silent sorrow when “ His Father’s
Mate ” was slain ;
Then he went and killed the father, and we had to
weep again.
Ben Duggan and Jack Denver, too, lie caused
them to expire,
And he went and cooked the gander of Jack Dunn,
of Nevertire;
And he spoke in terms prophetic of a revolution’s
beat,
When the world should hear the clamour of those
people in the street ;
But the shearer chaps who start it —why, ho
rounds on them in blame,
And-he calls’em “agitators” who are living on
the game.
So, no doubt, the bush is wretched if you judge it
by the groan
Of the sad and soulful poet with a graveyard of
his own.
But I “over-write” the buslunen ! Well, I own
without a doubt
That I always see a hero in the “man from
furthest out. ”
I could never contemplate him through au atmo-
sphere of gloom,
And a bushman never struck me as a subject for
“ the tomb.”
If it ain’t all “golden sunshine ” where the
“ wattle branches wave,”
Well, it ain't all damp and dismal, and it ain’t all
“ lonely grave.”
And, of course, there’s no denying that the bush-
man’s life is rough,
But a man can easy stand it if he’s built of sterling
stuff;
Tho’ it’s seldom that the drover gets a bed of
eider-down,
Yet the man who’s born a bushman, he gets
mighty sick of town,
For lie’s jotting down the figures, apd he’s adding
up the bills
While his heart is simply aching for a sight of
Southern hills.
Then he hears a wool-team passing with a rumble
and a lurch,
And although the work is pressing yet it brings
him off his perch.
For it stirs him like a message from his station
friends afar
And ho seems to sniff the ranges in the scent of
wool and tar ;
And it takes him back in fancy, half in laughter,
half in tears,
To a sound of other voices and a thought of other
years,
When the woolshed rang with bustle from the
dawning of the day,
And the shear-blades were a-clicking to the cry of
“ wool away !”
When his face was somewhat browner and his
frame was firmer set.
And be feels his flabby muscles with a feeling of
regret.
Then the wool-team slowly passes and his eyes go
sadly back
To the dusty little table and the papers in the
rack,
And his thoughts go to the terrace where his
sickly children squall,
And he thinks there’s something healthy in the
bushlife after all.
But we’ll go no more a-droving in the wind or in
the sun,
For our fathers’ hearts have failed us and the
droving days are done.
There’s a nasty dash of danger where the long-
horned bullock wheels,
And we like to live in comfort and to get our
reg’lar meals.
And to hang about the townships suits us better,
you’ll agree,
For a job at washing bottles is the job for such as
we.
Let us herd into the cities, let us crush and crowd
and push
Till we lose the love of roving and we learn to hate
the bush ;
And we’ll turn our aspirations to a city life and
beer,
And we’ll sneak across to England—it’s a nicer
place than here ;
For there’s not much risk of hardship where all
comforts are in store,
And the theatres are plenty and the pubs, are
more and more.
But that ends it, Mr. Lawson, and it’s time to say
good-bye,
We must agree to differ in all friendship, you
and I;
And our personal opinions—well, they’re scarcely
worth a rush,
For there's some that like the city and there’s
some that like the bush ;
And there’s no one quite contented, as I’ve always
heard it said,
Except one favoured person, and he turned out to
be dead.
So we’ll work our own salvation with the stoutest
hearts vve may,
And if fortune only favours we will take the road
some day,
And go droving down the river ’neath the sun-
shine and the stars,
And then we’ll come to Sydney and vermilionize
the bars.
THE BANJO.
The site of the old Central Police *
the Market House of Sydney in 1820-hJ‘f ''
brought under Torrens’ Act by the N% v n
Government in order to get a title Th' i
with other land, it appears, was dedio-A! , ! c, >
Macquarie in 1810 to the inhabitants of sn a
for all time; but in 1825 the police magmi y
took temporary possession of the Market'fj ate
and the Crowh has remained in occupation of “if’
valuable block ever since. 1 me
Judge Casey (Vie.), who publicly remv
bated the penal custom of commuting sent P
for good behaviour while undergoing sentence 68
been severely taken to task by Captain Evans’ fr
Inspector-General, and asked to supply all/ 16
incentive to reformation than the one bUi ,
promoted. Also Gaol-Chaplain Scott who if 0
drawn a hard and fast line and declared that h
has always discouraged any assistance toward*
discharged prisoners who have undergone m
than one conviction, has been pertinently
quested to inform the public as to how jL* 6 '
transgressions disqualify the earthly sinner f y
competing for the best seats in Paradise and I?®
what he means by preaching the Gospel of mer™
and salvation to repentant murderers who wit)
both feet on the gallows, clutch despairingly- *
the veriest straws of comfort cast by the stir a *
diary saint? len '
Edward Wakefield, in au English masa
zine:— ° = d '
One of the largest Maoris living is the great W-uw
chief, Wahanui, who stands six feet four inches “-.ns
weighs 350 pounds. Yet when Wahanui was attend!
Maoriland Parliament recently to urge the claims of hi g
tribe to the possession of their lands, and was the ,
of some of the members, I saw Dick Seddon, a Lancashire
lad who most fittingly sits for a rough mining ml'
stituenoy in the House of Representatives, carry WahahUi
the whole length of the vestibitle, over fifty yards fh
Maori attired in a gorgeous mat of kiwi feathers with his
taiaha or wooden battleaxe in his hand and a cmar in hi
mouth. A Maori, especially a chief, considers It a coin?
of honour never to betray any emotion, whatever
happens; but when Mr. Seddon planted Wahanui safelv
on a bench at the end of the vestibule, the “ big fellow ”
opened his black eyes very wide and solemnly eiacnl-itos „
prolonged “Ka-pai! Good!” One day I invited Wahanui
to lunch, and knowing something of Maori tastes I
provided amongst other things, a large piece of boiled
pork. Wahanui came punctually to time, accompanied
by his interpreter—a superior-looking young native with
a face like an Arab—a great chief thinking it beneath him
to speak English, even though he may know it quite well
The two sat down to table with the calm self-possession
and good manners which distinguish the race; and I
helped Wahanui to a round of the pork about an inch
thick, the interpreter choosing some less substantial dish
The conversation and wine both flowed freely and
Wahanui was soon in high spirits. Three times I
replenished his plate with a pound or two of boiled-po k
to which he added every condiment on the tabte not
excepting goos-berry-jam. At length, on passing his
plate for more, he said, through the interpreter: 11 1 am
afraid you will think me very rude to eat so much
but I am a big man and want a good deal of food ”
“No, Wahanui,” I replied, “you could not show me-
greater politeness than by eating heartily, because that is
a proof that you like what I have provided for you. If I
were to dine with you 1 am sure you would be pleased to
see me eat everything you placed before me.” At this
Wahanui heaved a deep sigh, something like the blowing
of a grampus, and said : “ Ah, when I was a young man I
could eat a whole pig as high as that,” indicating an
animal which would take a prize at an average show.
“Am I to take that literally?” I asked the interpreter
alluding to the well-known custom of the Maoris of usin"
metaphors or figures of speech. “Oh, yes !” he answered.
“ When Wahanui was a young man he could eat a whole
pig and a kit of kumaras besides.”


Medical.
Relief from Cough in 10 Minutes,
u
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
INFLUENZA, GOUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, Ac.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE.
Immediately it is taken Coughing
Ceases. Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.H. Office, BelM, On. Fey-
nana nh, mites :My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.—July, 1891.
Sold by all Chemists at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d.
prepared only by A. Hay man Sc Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents:—Elliott Bros,, S. Hoffncno & Co.,
and Australian Druo Co., Ltd., Sydney.
JSools of 3Ma,"fc"u«.xr es
ds
Book of Wature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty-
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Hesant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
post!/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6. Dancing without a master—Ball-
room Guide and Self-instructor, by Prof. Peltzer, 1/3.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmast .r, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
u:
Hi? The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
and
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H, FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist.
Oxford Street, SYDNEY,
lity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, Georgest.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
m
m
:/
V
Best ©n Earth
Sole Agents—
Mlt’s Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited,
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking-
Treasury Gardens.
GRATED lfo7>^
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in
eluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange
jjents for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Heotl, Melbourne.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d*
In Stamps.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’3
Complete Treatise
ON
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
Pkice la
In btamili.
♦
•A.. M. 8.,
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
IJ' l ' Kelly s reputation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, to bo appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why docs so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
followsl hat the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
of Ws* pas tf oily 118 fel 0W belngs whlle his mmd 18 constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS:-
Am i subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy Sleepy Peeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste ln the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Peeling During the Day, Pains in the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Fits,
or Shortness of Breath'?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small PAMPHLET BUT A
LARGE BOOK CONTAINING MANY PAGES op PRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY, This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
J? r * * P er s°ns sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Perions consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, Ac., Ac., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
Dr. W. H. Kelly, who is a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Monday .
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday..
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m,
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
W. IX. KEIL.JLIL,
113 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
*£v:w -■
&
as
3
;t||
cc
??fe^
ay
/t^iß
H® .»I£J
j&r
SUffir
m
3lr
tt*
v
K*3
q\P
£
&
f*fi
-N^
fs
tSr^S^
Tw;.
••vr
i
ss
%(«
>1»
#«•
>«r
THE LIGHT-RUNNING
HB
jS?7SzzW-
!St
Latest and most important improvements !
AUTOMATIC TENSION.
ENLARGED BOBBIN.
AUTOMATIC BOBBIN WINDER.
DOUBLE FEED. EXTENSION TABLE,
HIGH ARM. SELF-SETTING NEEDLE.
Simply Perfect I Perfectly Simple I
Before buying any other send for Circular.
Ask your Storekeeper to get you one
from
J. I. Johnston & Co.
54 Bourke St-, Melbourne,
743 GEOBGE ST., SYDNEY.
137 Queen St., Brisbane.
“ TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE : Is. ; Per Post, Is. 3d.
Medical.
E)r. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, 'CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future he pleased to welcome hli
ftiends and patients, during his cOhsulting hour#,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r
gte-cr
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college i
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualification >
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation. Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, genetal
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered those difficulties. On receipt of 6d, in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a-
plain wrapper, postage
FREE. A Large CLOTH.BOUND
uOOix,
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecetsary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE FOUND IS SUFFICIENT. TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom, lie will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclose d
in the volume will be found a l.st of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in ail probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by flro,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between (lie doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Re sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,000
LABG-E BONUSES
AND
TJIsrnDOTJB-Z'EID SEOUBITY
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident’ Secretary.
Russian
rand.
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
advt
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
AlanAUK.u for Australia — *37. J. MacWilliam, 207 GEORGE STREET,
Ale
Bass* Bale
SYDNEY
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
EID
•"Bade m7\b£
s
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOIiUTI3L Y P U Ul3,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATS 0
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co
(3-viiniaess ’ ZBxitx-a. Stout
SYDNEY,
E P. GREG OKI & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK r
Steam En gines, Boilers, GS-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS*
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS,’ TOOLS ajid MINING MACHINERY.,
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of..
Prices quoted, and you.r enquiries intelligently replied to. without any delay..
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE-
BOROUGH OF
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE- HOTEL, GARRIQK THEATRE; s<j.,
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING,
«xxxiaxca:,
anx
śd
TjHE;
6 Plum ’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has over been offered, tp.the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for, use, aqd we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shaye them;
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
p •
llce
j Single Razor, in strong leather case. 10s. (5d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s,
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, ivory handler., in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is cxtr a>
Sole
Agents ;
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
yerclriau dc* Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
ROBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP T T SE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc.. Made to Order. ROBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GEOTIGIE STREET, SYD3M1BY.
Cleaverb
JaveniaSoap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves arid Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Semi stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDIIEIM, GOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C S.
V. • ■■■
w/m: •
0
L
BAKER AND ROUSE,
MANUFACTURERS and MERCHANTS in PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
375 GEOROE S"X , 3FS.353]E:i B , SXD3XTEY (u«M A.J.S. Raull),
—AXD AT—
250 COLL IN S STREET ... ... ... MELBOURNE,
09 BUNDLE STREET ... ... ... ADELAIDE,
40 QUEEN STREET ... ... ... BRISBANE,
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES..
Wild Australia!
■Wild Queensland t
Lectures on ‘Wild Australia’* and Wild Queensland”
BY
A. M E S T O KT.
IJLLUS.TRATER BA TIHRTA ABORIGINES !'
Selected' chiefly from the Wild; Tribes of North, Queensland,, including several' men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer,, called the “ Terrible Rite.”
A colleptiop, of over; 3000; Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia.
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the. early settlers of Australia—Hunting, Fighting,
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “ Booronl” (Bora,) ceremonies.
t@T- The most Exciting, Interesting ands Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
|§f! ilJi f (gppem in. (Brisbane. Sydney,, Melbourne, (Adelaide,, Tasmania, and
IKT IXTOVEMBEH.
ON, THE; WAY; TO, CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD !:
Tine- Lecturer*, >1 r. A. MESTON,,
The \yell-known Queensland Writer, and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian.aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speei-
’ mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
tire most beautiful of MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAY WELL A CO.
depot
Or
T
B*"fc
ts
o
S r
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
gy MINING, KIN AN Cl Al, & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE'
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES
L
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished. Largest and most
lliard and Public Lunchecn Rooms in Sydney, and ts now unrivalled for comfort and attention ,
sdors. fS' T<xnjf, 10s. Oil. per day. Special Hates,hr Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMP.VNV . - Proprietors.
W. W. AIKKN. Manager (18 years in the establishment).


The Bulletin
Vo]. 12—No. 659.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1892.
Price, 6d.
A POLITICAL FORECAST.
T HE OLD 'UN: “Now, that’s my hidea of a Government ‘hunder the circumstances.’”
SIR G. REPUBLICAN DIBBS : “Yes, but which of us is to be the fore-legs, and which the hind-logs? ”
PARKES: “Well, under our present Parliamentary system, it won’t matter much. We shall accomplish nothing, but will create no bend of harnusement!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
PROPRIETORS :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TEEMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 M 6
Quarterly... 0 0 0
NOTICE.
Ily muling direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required ,
■which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
11 Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing -with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C,
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this r ule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1892.
Government by Contradiction—Again!
Last week the ‘ ‘ political crisis ” which fills
up most of the time of Australia’s five Legis-
latures started in a virulent form in the New
South Wales Assembly. In this instance it
is a three-cornered crisis. There is, firstly,
a motion by Mr. Reid, nominal leader of the
Foreign-trade party, setting forth that he
and Co. have, in a general sort of way, no
confidence in the Government, or its policy,
or its intelligence, or its ox, or its ass, or in
anything which belongs to the Protectionist
following. Next, there is a resolution by
Mr. Frank Cotton, to the effect that the
House objects to the appropriation out of the
Treasury of £lOOO to pay the expenses of Sir
G. Republican Dibbs on his recent mission
to England in search of a title ; and on top
of this there is another resolution by Mr.
Cann stating that the Assembly resents the
doings of the Ministry in re the Broken Hill
lock-out. All these resolutions necessarily
got mixed up together in an early stage of
their development, and among them they
present a great and awful commentary on
the system of party Government. It was
generally understood front the start that the
direct Opposition—which is appointed by
the nation for the express purpose of pre-
venting the Government doing the things
which the Government was expressly ap-
pointed by the nation to do—-would support
the original motion in the interests of
Foreign-trade, with the exception of a few
Foreign-traders who would vote for Pro-
tection as the only means of expressing
their approval of the anti-Labpur policy
pursued at Broken Hill; but assisted, on
the other hand, by sundry Protectionists,
who would vote for Foreign-trade in order
to show that they objected to that same anti-
Labour policy. Mr. Cotton’s amendment
concerning the £lOOO taken out of the
Treasury was expected to receive the support
of all sorts and descriptions of malcontents,
saving those who would like to support
the amendment, but are afraid lest it might
be passed, and that Mr. Cotton would con-
sequently be “ sent for” to form a Ministry.
And Mr. Cann’s amendment was put forward
to embody the immediate question at issue,
which was an ungentlemanly thing to do,
for in party politics nobody says any more
about the question at issue than can possibly
be avoided, and many large silver share-
holders in the Legislature are much embar-
rassed thereby.
* « *
The following which gathered together to
support the Government under these con-
ditions was naturally very much mixed. It
embodied those who approved of the
appropriation of £lOOO out of the Treasury ;
those who liked Dibits’,s new title; that
section of the Protectionist party which
valued Protection more than democratic
principle ; the section of the Foreign-trade
party which was afraid that a Reid Govern-
ment would not jump on the democracy as
heavily as the Dibbs Government is doing ;
one or two democrats who probably hated
the Dibbs Cabinet with all their souls but
who desired to get the One-man-one-vote
Bill through instead of wasting time forming
a new Ministry ; one or two miscellaneous
persons with axes to grind, and sundry poli-
ticians who, for various reasons, regarded
the Dibbs crowd with utter loathing, but
who loathed the Reid crowd a little worse,
and being compelled to take one of them,
supported the smaller evil. Party politics,
in fact, consist entirely in choosing the less
of two evils. There is much variety in the
size of the evil, but it always is an evil.
# # #
Amid all this confusion and riot, the
Legislature started to consider the great
question of whether it would keep the devil
it knew or speculate recklessly in the devil
it didn’t know. No one expected to get a
particularly coherent reply to the question.
If the House expressed its confidence in the
Ministry, it couldn’t, by any legislative or
other process, state whether it did so because
the Ministry had taken £lOOO from the
Treasury without authority, or because
Premier Dibbs had gone back on his al-
leged Republican principles and become a
K.C.M.G., or because the Government had
trodden on the Broken Hill unionists with
an iron hoof, or because of Protection,
Federation, or the One-man-one-vote Bill,
or because the House utterly despised the
entire Cabinet, but was afraid to eject it lest
something worse might follow. And if it
expressed a want of confidence in the
Government, it had no means of saying
definitely what particular act it objected to.
If it voted enthusiastically for Mr. Cann’s
motion, thereby declaring that it ejected the
Government because of its high-handed doings
at Broken Hill, there was always the danger
in view that Mr. Cann might be sent for,
according to precedent, to form a new
Ministry, and that he might thereupon
arrest all the Broken Hill directors, and
prosecute Mr. Whitting dale Johnson for
something, and swear in the strikers as
special constables. If it declared that it
objected principally to the misappropriation
of £lOOO from the Treasury, and endorsed
Mr. Cotton's resolution to that effect, then
it ran the risk of starting Mr. Cotton in
business as Premier’, with a Ministry of
Single Taxers who would immediately want
to destroy the Customs house and confiscate
everybody’s allotment. If it objected equally
to Dibbs, Reid, Cotton, and Gann, it had
no possible means of saying so. It couldn’t
discriminate among the existing Ministers,
and explain which ones, if any, it desired to
retain in office, and which it wanted to get
rid of. It had either to take or reject the
Cabinet and all its works in one lot. Also,
if it accepted Mr. Reid as the new leader of
the House it had to accept him in one lot
also, with any colleagues he liked to select,
and any policy he chose to adopt. And if it
didn’t like the colleagues or the policy when
they arrived, it could only get rid of them
by going back to the old Dibbs aggregation
which it had already repudiated.
* * #
These are a few of the perplexities of the
situation, but there are many more. If the
House expressed its disapproval of the Dibbs
Cabinet then there remained the chance that
the Government would appeal to the country.
In that case, it would go before the electors
on a policy compounded of Protection,
Australian Federation, the maintenance of
“ law and order ” —otherwise the encourage-
ment of Capitalism and the suppression of
Labour by legal process, the abolition of
bogus banks, the abolition of imprisonment
for debt, the One-man-one-vote principle,
Dibbs’ new title, the unauthorised abstraction
of £lOOO from the public funds, the flogging
of larrikins, and various other items. If the
country sent the Dibbs Cabinet back into
power it would, by so doing, endorse all
these things ; if it dismissed that Cabinet it
would thereby have to state.that it objected
to all of them It is a matter of absolute
certainty that the majority of the nation
does not either approve of all these things
or disapprove of them all, but owing to the
supreme foolishness of party Government -
it must tell a lie one way or the other, else
the political machine will come to a dead-
lock. If the country wants Protection
it must endorse the Dibbs Govern-
ment’s flogging-bill to get it. It can’t
have the Federation Bill without falsely
asserting that it approves of Dibbs' treachery
to his republican principles. It must take
the whole, policy or none, for it is not
allowed to discriminate ; also, it must take
the whole Ministry or none, for it is not
empowered to state which members of the
Cabinet it wants to get rid of, and which it
wants to retain. If it sacks the Government
it must take the Reid party and the Reid
policy whole ; if it wants neither Reid
nor Dibbs it has no effective means
of explaining the fact ; if it wants
only a part of the Reid policy, or
a certain section of the Reid following, it
can t explain that either. The whole system
as matters stand to-day is based on the
entirely unwarranted assumption that the
country must be yearning after either Reid
or Dibits, which is just the same as assuming
that because a man is hungry he must want
either a statue or a mile-and-a-half of barbed
wire.
* # #
While we write, the want of confidence
problem is still in suspense. How it may
end is to The Bulletin a matter of absolute
indifference. The principles of this paper,
when translated into the obscure language
of Party Government, are that the Dibbs
Cabinet ought to be retained in power amid
general enthusiasm, by reason of its ostensibly
energetic support of the One-man-one-vote
principle and its views upon Protection,
imprisonment for debt, and one or two
other matters ; that it ought to be dismissed
with ignominy for its leaning towards
Imperialism, its barbarous, stupid, and use-
less measure for the suppression of larrikin-
ism, and its utter want of equity in its
dealings with Labour as instanced, not more
by the arrest of the leaders at Broken Hill,
than by its previous action in suspending
the labour conditions at the mines, in order
that the silver companies might have time to
crush their opponents at their leisure ; and
that it ought to be partly kept in power and
held in general reverence, and partly ejected
amid unanimous execration on its Federa-
tion policy, and one or two other matters.
The rest of this paper’s principles are that
the Labour-party should come into power
at once by reason of its democratic pro-
gramme, and that it ought to be kept
out by every possible means because it has
sold itself in a great measure to the Foreign-
trade faction, which is the natural enemy of
Labour and of the nation at large. And as
there is absolutely no means of expressing
these sentiments at the poll, the political
crisis is to us a matter of profund in-
difference. What Australia wants more
than almost anything else beneath the sun is
the Referendum—so that it can give a
prompt, coherent, and immediate decision on
every important question which arises with-
out the issue being tangled up with a dozen
other problems that have no bearing upon
the case ; and the direct election of Ministers
by the Assembly for a fixed term so as to
abolish want-of-confidence motions, and
the chaos of party politics in general. And
until it gets these reforms the desire of The
Bulletin is that all the parties in the Legis-
lature may be defeated simultaneously, and
that the House may express its entire want
of confidence in all the leaders of every
side and most of the followers as well.
A vote of confidence, as matters now stand,
is a declaration that the nation, through its
representatives, approves of everything that
the gang which happens to hold office at the
moment has done and proposes doing, and
no Government this side of Paradise deserves
such confidence, or ever will deserve it.
The Australian Literary Man.
It will be a clay of joy for Australian journalists
and literary men when the law of copyright, as
laid down by the British judges in the suit
brought by London Times against St. James’
Gazette is brought to bear in this country.
The bulk of the matter, outside of mere news
items, in the Australian press is simply pirated
without payment, and usually without acknow-
ledgment, from English and American publica-
tions. Consequently, the Australian writer,
with, it may be, columns untold, in more
senses than one, of goodly matter in his head,
is constrained to cork up his ideas and whittle
his mind into shreds and scraps to supply
topical paragraphs for the dailies. No truly
literary man can earn bread and butter by
writing for Australian publications. The daily
metropolitan press in all the provinces is, with
scarcely an exception, owned and controlled by
enriched tradesmen who conduct a newspaper
in precisely the same spirit as they would run a
drapery store, or a sausage factory. The editor
is apprised of the amount to be expended in
filling the columns of the journal; a certain sum
is allowed for a news-collecting staff, generally
of stenographers, certain salaried leader-writers
are associated with him, and a slender allow-
ance for contributions is, in a grudging spirit,
sometimes vouchsafed. But it is always 'under-
stood that neither the news-staff, the editorial
staff, nor the contributors, are expected to fill
the reading columns. The public comprises a
proportion of persons who have a taste for
scientific lore, for humour, for fiction, or for
light reading. These must be ministered to—
with a pair of scissors and a paste-pot. The
editor is invariably chosen because he is con-
sidered “ safe ” and “ cautious ” without refer-
ence to any, gift of brilliancy or power—indeed,
we have known an editor who was quite
efficient yet could not pen a readable sentence.
The essential qualifications of a staff leader-
writer arc, first, docility, and second, a
good acquaintance with local public ques-
tions and with the leading characteristics of
public men, and it is only a happy accident if
one of that class of servants happens to have
either literary style or literary tastes. As for
originality of thought, that is almost an impos-
sible concomitant in a nature of which a sub-
missive tractableness and a readiness to mould
thoughts into any form which may suit an
employer for the time being are the principal
ingredients. Of the few really brilliant men
Avho have left their mark in the rather barren
annals of Australian literature, not one has
been, except it may have happened in a transi-
tory, stop-gap fashion, an editor of a leading
journal.
As the ranks of staff leader-writers are
recruited mainly from those of the shorthand
reporting corps—the mechanics of literature—
the lieutenants are seldom better equipped than
the commander. Accidents do happen indeed
In the search for “safe men” the tradesmen
who own papers have a tendency to seek help
among the parsons. To a tradesman, a parson
is apt to appear a wonderfully-lettered in-
dividual. Your Congregationalist minister or
your Methodist preacher is rather fond of
dabbling in print. He begins by writing
short sermons, which he puts in the form
of letters to the editor, on the subject
of a Sabbath - desecrating apple - stall or
something of that sort, and progresses to
temperance homilies (“contributed”) and essays
on the proposed Jordan Valley canal or the
railway to Jerusalem. These lucubrations im-
press the tradesman considerably, as testimony
that literary competence is added to
and the parson leaves the pulpit for the leader-
writer’s cupboard, discards black clothes for
pepper-and-salt, attends cricket-matches in lieu
of tea-fights, smokes a cigar, affects “liberal”
views on religion ; presently ventures to take a
public whisky, joins in “ He’s a jolly, good
fellow ” at banquets with quite a rakish air-
hut thinks parsonically, reasons parsonically,
writes parsonically to the last day of his
wretched life. Sometimes such a one really
has a literary turn, but there has been no
instance, as yet, of a parson-journalist placing
a distinct mark in our literary record. With
respect to shorthand writers, it cannot be for-
gotten that the most brilliant imaginative
English writer of the century emerged from
their ranks. But the quality which is essential
to their function is the very contrary of imagi-
native endowment. Such a gift is antagonistic
to success. Technical skill and rigid adherence
to detail—hard Gradgrind requirements—are
their primary qualifications. To be a first-class
reporter, a stenographer must be a man of
extended general knowledge. He must be
competent to place himself on the same plane
of thought and information as the man whose
speech he records ; to comprehend the drift of
passing allusions, to locate quotations, to recog-
nise references. Besides the splendid instance
of Charles Dickens, there have emerged other
clever litterateurs from the ranks of the army
of stenographers. But the chance is about the
same as the emergence of a gifted artist from
the host of architectural or mechanical draughts-
men—an emergence of which Linley Bam-
bourne, of London Punch, is one example, as
Hogarth was an instance of emergence from
the ruck of engravers.
# # »
The staff-journalist in Australia is not ex-
pected to be brilliant or original. He is not
paid to be either. He is salaried for general
utility—not for star performance. If he were
to coruscate, he would be adjudged dangerous,
unfit for his position, and would assuredly for-
feit it by some brilliant indiscretion. He would
then, perforce, join the little army of contribu-
tors, men mostly who have drifted into jour-
nalistic work because of a natural bent for
literature, for which no nearer approximation
to a vent exists in Australia. He would nob
be nearly so well off in a sordid sense as the
duller fellows who earn their waiges by the con-
tented routine exertion of mediocre talents.
Or he would be driven by sheer want to some
other, some commercial, occupation wherein his
light would go out altogether.
* * *
In larger communities there exists a market
for jeux d'esprit of all kinds. In Australia even
brilliancy is no recommendation unless it be
adjusted to one or two conventional patterns.
We have heard the managing proprietor of a
“ great ” Australian daily complain with some
acerbity that in Mark Twain’s “ Tramp
Abroad ” there are descriptive passages which
convey erroneous impressions respecting the
actual things and scenes dealt with. We have
known the same person to deprecate the humour
of Thackeray as unwholesome, probably on
account of his “ Four Georges,” but ostensibly
on the ground that satire is the lowest form of
literature. As the daily journal controlled by
this Philistine was for years the only one in the
province where it w as published which could or
did afford to accept and pay for contributed
articles, it follows that in that metropolis Mark
Twain and Thackeray would have been com-
pelled by repulses of the “ not suitable to our
columns ” order, to have laid down the pen and
betaken themselves to type-setting, or rail-
splitting.
* # *
lb is only the other day that an un-
fortunate author of an Australian work of
fiction, which a country newspaper proprietor
considered good enough to print, was coolly
told, on applying for remuneration at the cer-
tainly humble rate of ten shillings per column,
that it was not customary to pay for
such productions. This is unfortunately true,
Marcus Clarke could find no market in the
principal weeklies for his great novel.
Gordon’s poems brought him hardly any-
thing. Kendall was fain to seek subsistence
as a forest - inspector. The men who find
acceptance for their work in the best magazines
of London, barely eked out existence in
Australia. Brunton Stephens counted himself,
and was, lucky to receive £lO here for some of
his choicest humouresques, and had to seek in
England a publisher for his greatest work,
“ Convict Once,” which probably was “ not
suited to our columns” in Australia.
There is “no space” for Australian Avriters
in Australian journals. Stolen clippings fib
the columns, or where the literary matter is
not filched, unpaid for, it is bought at second-
hand, or on starving terms from literary
sweaters in England avlio buy authors’ works
wholesale, to dispose of them retail to ai hundred
papers in a hundred different parts of the
English-speaking Avorld, at little more than the
cost of the paper the “proofs” are printed on,
but yet aggregating a profit. Presently these
dealers wilt send out literary columns iu'stereo-
graph plates, ready to be placed in the press.
Then the members of the Typographical Asso-
ciation will bestir themselves. They are
numerous, united and powerful. But the Aus-
tralian literary men are few, scattered and poor.


Cabled that “a desperate fight has
ensued between the Dahomeyans and the French
—lOOO niggers killed and only five Frenchmen.
The sort of “desperate fight” which takes place
at a kangaroo-drive.
Yo Can Serve Both God and Mammon.
t , vI)NK v debating society has just dealt with
A s ..Ltion whether success in business can be
by a man who observes the precepts of
•aHanity. The subject was not framed in
i ? rireciae form of words, but its purport was
ttul A as we liave stated. It is a vice of
f wine societies that they are less concerned
the novelty of the themes proposed
LLucidation than they ai - e that the subject
i n.dd afford opportunity for argument. The
,n-icers of these institutions seem, in general,
Lmt as to whether the subject of dis-
aaioii be as old as the hills, as insoluble as
cU ~f y or as one-sided as an axiom of Euclid.
ff u , nU 2 as it seems to afford scope for a lively
L, Lie they are satisfied. The attitude of
gluttons for discussion reminds us of the
Srdies in one of Punch’s latest who were
ambled to learn the game of football,
introducer of the novelty was ex-
Linding the methods, and got as far as
P Limning how each side was at liberty to
Sow and hack the other, when the pupils
became anxious to enjoy such noble sport at
J gut the ball was not provided. Dom
A 1 u a n i” cried the excited miners, “let’s begin
he game.” Similarly the. debating society
“LI” the subject of debate. What it wants
i, t he scrimmage. This frame of mind explains
Lv a theme such as the above, which so evi-
dently could only be decided in one way, was
permitted to occupy a fine body of debaters
?., r i n2 an entire evening, it enabled the more
talented and skilful to dress up a elegant
paradoxes on the obviously wrong and unten-
Lle S ide, and thus exercise their gifts of speech
„ n d assist them in upholding the credit of the
profession when they got “ out of their articles
Ld blossomed into full-blown attorneys.
I is almost needless to say that the question
was decided in the affirmative. Only the
censurable levity of the members of the
debating society in permitting so serious a reli-
gious truth to be questioned, even in sport, could
have induced us to occupy space in enforcing a
demonstration of a truth so obvious, and so
essential for the maintenance of that reverence
for the Faith of the Churches. We feel,
nerhaps, an additional propriety in authorita-
tively placing this matter beyond further irre-
verent and reckless question, on account of a
«rowiug tendency which many persons must
have lately observed to entertain thoughts and
acquiesce with supine indifference in statements
of alleged occurrences which our nobler and
sterner fathers would have spurned without
hesitation as wicked delusions of the Devil
himself. «
# * *
During the childhood of men not yet aged
this accursed spirit of questioning the most
essential truths had not arisen. The parents of
such persons were so steadfast in their faith
that it was to them subject for unaffected
amazement when ill deeds or irreverent thoughts
failed to be visited by early if not immediate
dispensations of penal judgment. If an ungodly
person used swear-words, if the people over the
way were loose in their observance of the Sab-
bath, if a young person of comely appearance
wore at church more feathers than one’s own
plain daughter, if young Larkins sported mous-
taches or smoked a cigar, the venerable fore-
fathers and foremothers of the hamlet were in-
variably, unaffectedly, and perhaps a little
disappointedly, surprised that these trangressors
did not fear lest a judgment should fall upon
them. In those days of genuine, unadulterated
faith no one doubted that the practice of piety
assured not merely prosperity in affairs—
in keeping with one’s station in life, of course,
none of your upsetting notions —but immunity
from physical disasters. If the horses of a
•vehicle bolted and dashed into a crowd, it was
always the infidel cobbler who got his leg
[broken, or the dissolute exciseman who received
•concussion of the brain, although they had been
islanding on the footpath, while the pious
grocer and the church-going attorney escaped
unscathed, notwithstanding that they occupied
the centre of the roadway. Similarly in battle,
the good soldier bore a charmed life, while the
wicked young man, who had run away from
home after belting the parson’s clerk, was either
shot dead on the spot, or wounded in as many
places as he had vices, and left to die in great
and deserved (and, by all right-thinking people,
rather relished) agonies. There were, it may
be admitted, exceptions, such as the rather
numerous instances in which the reckless
soldier had, out of mere carnal and human
affection, preserved the Bible his mother
forced on him when he skipped. In these
■cases the bullet always struck just over his
[heart, and was turned by the sacred volume
■with the consequences that the fortunate owner
■of the talisman reformed and lived happily ever
after. Similarly, when there was a visitation of
small-pox, the dear, good, meek and virtuous
young lady with the cast in her eye, and the
muddy complexion, and the painfully plain
features was indeed liable to contract the
disease equally with the giddy, pretty thing
with the feathers, already mentioned. But it
never failed to eventuate that, when after pro-
longed sufferings, borne with uncomplaining
fortitude by the former, and with querulous
impatience by the latter, they sufficiently re-
covered to look in the glass, the pious, plain
girl had been transformed by the superficial
skin-effects into a being of radiant loveliness,
whereas the naughty beauty’s face had been
scarified into a mask of appalling hideousness.
* ■# *
The repeal of the newspaper stamp-duty in
Great Britain and the consequent immense
diffusion of the secular journals, is one of those
designs of Providence into which it does not
become the limited mind of man to inquire.
All that we can know is that a regrettable
laxity of thought has been occasioned by this
agency. Whereas our ancestors held firm to
the belief that the levin bolts from on high
always struck down the ungodly, and floods
and conflagrations visited with wrath the evil-
doer, the newspaper states without hesitation
alleged occurrences entirely at variance with
those pure articles of faith. In consequence, it
is a deplorable evidence to-day of the decadence
of trust that every steeple is provided with a
lightning-conductor, and even that precaution
seems vain. It was only the other day that
(luring an earthquake the ungodly who ventured
to take refuge in a theatre came out all right,
whereas the faithful who sought sanctuary in
the church were crushed under its ruins, f lien
again, to come nearer home, the B.M. Herald
alleged last week with callous effrontery that
a little boy was killed by a falling roof
because he would insist on going to bed
to say his prayers at an unusual hour,
whereas had he remained in the sitting-room
he would have escaped. Such narratives
instinctively prompt the unregenerate mind to
speculate whether the little boy would have
escaped had he stopped in the sitting-room to
play euchre. Again, at the Island of Sangicr,
the Herald affirms—although it seems in-
credible to “every right-thinking person”—
that the church with about 250 women and
children was destroyed, with the pastor’s head
sticking through the roof, in an apparent in-
effectual attempt to lead the way to Heaven.
* # •
All these things have a disturbing effect,
which may in a degree explain the readiness of
the debating society to entertain the question
as to whether business is compatible with
Christian principles. - Nevertheless, we cannot
bring ourselves to regard that question as one
for serious argumentation. It seems sufficient
to point to recent and living examples as full
affirmation. One of the most notably success-
ful business men of Sydney was also one of the
shining lights of a leading church, and died in
the odour of sanctity. His business methods
were of the most refined ingenuity and, as
might have been expected, exposed him to much
malicious animadversion from the merely
worldly. His piety and his purse kept pace,
but a trifling instrument of business success,
having some connection with white spirit and
forged labels, having accidentally come to light,
he was subjected to the mortification of ex-
clusion from an ungodly club. Then, to come
nearer to our own times, who have been the
most successful business men and, at the same
time, the most distinguished ornaments of the
churches of late ? At this moment it is true
that the heathen furiously rage against these
worthy men. But it has been ever thus. True
virtue and piety have always drawn upon their
professors the wrath of the ungodly who are
apt to shriek aloud in reference to their filthy
Mammon, if a saintly man should evince
so much as a wish to deprive them
of it, so as to be in a position to build churches
with it, and hire parsons, and leave it in his
will for benevolent purposes. Oh, there is no
incompatibility. There are, we grant, some
passages in the Scriptures which appear awk-
ward at first sight. Such as exhortations to
sell everything and distribute among the unem-
ployed, and inconsiderate remarks about rich
men and camels and needles’ eyes. But it is
scarcely necessary here to explain, what has so
repeatedly been demonstrated by the best-paid
divines, that these passages have in every
instance been mistranslated from the Hebrew
or else misconstrued by imperfectly-instructed
minds. There is no incompatibility. One
sentence runs : “ Ye cannot serve both God and
Mammon.” It is almost needless to mention
that the word “ cannot ” is a mistranslation for
“ can.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Victim of “Law and Order.”
The story of Frederick Plummer, shot re-
cently by two policemen at Hunua, near Auck-
land (M.L.). Plummer was a nervous, feeble
little kleptomaniac, a sneak-thief, and sundry
other varieties of a bad character, and a good
part of his life had been spent in gaol. He was
never convicted of any crime of violence or any
offence requiring nerve ; he was a dipsomaniac,
whose offences were all committed in his
drunken intervals, and a small, cheap, pot-
tering law-breaker. When he came out of
prison after his first sentence he was “shadowed”
in the usual fashion— i.e., whenever he got em-
ployment, however humble and dirty and un-
profitable, someone in uniform told his employer
of his antecedents, and procured his discharge,
and so on all through his career. When
released after his seventh or eighth convic-
tion he seems to have made a great effort to
forswear gaols and policemen for ever. He
married and got a situation in the country, but
presently a policeman called on his employer
with the usual explanation, and thereafter the
pariah disappeared from decent society. A
little later a burglary was committed in the
vicinity, and a gun and some food disappeared.
A warrant was, of course, issued for Plummer,
who seems to have taken to the bush. Then he
was sighted by two policemen who —taking it
for granted that as he was presumed to be the
burglar he must have the gun about him, and
assuming that because he had the gun he would
use it—tired two shots at him. According to
the police story —there was no one else in sight
to relate any other story— Plummer fired back,
and thereupon the force took another shot at
him and killed him. Some navvies who chanced
to be within hearing, though out of view, swore
that they only heard three shots fired, so the
fourth one, alleged to have been discharged by
the criminal, was never corroborated. The gun
with which he was alleged to have fired it was
not produced at the inquest—in fact, no gun
was found, or seems likely to be found. It he
had no such weapon with him, then he
certainly did not shoot at the police, and
in the absence of that article the possibilities
are that he was not the burglar, but was only
killed on general principles as a friendless
person of bad character. The only things dis-
covered were a bony, attenuated corpse in a
ditch, and a broken umbrella. At the inquest
it was alleged by the two policemen that
deceased refused to surrender when called upon,
and the jury thereupon found a verdict of justi-
fiable homicide. The story ends right here.
The Great Gulf Robbery.
The big, greedy “ shindy kit” is ready—several
of him—to rush the Grlffxlwraith Govern-
ment of Queensland with proposals to construct
in the Gulf country a railway, to be paid for in
land-grants, from Croydon to Georgetown, and
from Georgetown to connect with the extension
of the Cairns-11erberton line. 1 his particular
opportunity is one of the juiciest plums ever
offered by any Government to any legalised
band of plunderers. The line of country con-
sists of mineral areas of unthinkable value, or
lands teeming with wealth in comparison to
which the famed richness of the best African
metal-fields is believed to be as nought, or
strata which have been for at least a-quarter of
a century the subject of uncontrolled admiration
of official geological experts. Want of sufficient
political representation in Parliament has
hitherto prevented this well-understood but
incomputable wealth from being made readily
accessible to the world’s markets; the de-
partmental and other authoritative reports
have been consistently pigeon-holed; and
now, when political development has made
it impossible that these golden store-
houses'can be longer concealed, now, when
the Cloncurry can no longer be hidden, now,
when the oft-prophesied “ richest goldfield in
all the world ” 'must be submitted to the
open test of actual development—these vast
deposits of national wealth are to be handed
over to the “shindykit.” For the Land-grant
Railway Act of the ( Ai fill wraith Government —
which “ simply slink* syndicate ” —provides
that all the minerals in the ground of the land-
grants are to be the absolute property, without
reservation, of the railway-constructing syndi-
cates ! Thus the knell of the free miner is to be
tolled by the bell of the Kanaka Government,
and the sturdy independence of the digger is to
be quagmired in the crust-earning servitude of
the sweated wagfb-slave. The last possible
stand of the manly white workers of Queensland
must be made at the next general election
in that province, which will be either
their Thermopylae or their Waterloo. The
one faint chance remaining rests in the
accident that any contract with any land-grant
railway syndicate must be ratified by Parlia-
ment before it acquires validity, and unless the
Gbiffil wraith rushes matters with undisguised
shamelessness and accepts a contract within the
term of life of the present dishonoured and
absolutely servile ‘ Assembly, and secures that
Assembly’s consent to the wholesale robbery of
the people’s possessions, it will be possible to
easily undo the most pernicious part of this
immoral legislation, provided the voters them-
selves only do their duty.
New South Wales Minister O’Connor has a Bill
before Parliament for the suppression of larrikin-
ism by the partial flaying of the offender, and
he introduced the Bill because imprisonment is
“ ineffective.” On the night of 17th September,
the Sydney police force being mostly engaged in
stamping out trades-unionism at Broken Hill,
the “pushes” took partial possession of the
city, and raised pandemonium. A very few
were captured by the handful of constables on
duty, and out of eight roughs who turned up
at the court, three were fined 10s. apiece; one
was fined £1; two more were gently requested
to pay 40s. ; and the last two, being exceed-
ingly awful characters, were mulct in 00s. each.
According to law, every one of these ruffians
might have been sent to gaol for a considerable
term, but, apparently, no New South Wales
magistrate ever dreams of sending them there.
Therefore, we come to the old question, why
does Minister O’Connor assume that confine-
ment has failed as a remedy for larrikinism,
seeing that, up to date, it hasn’t even been
tried ? And what difference does it make to
the average magistrate whether he is authorised
to imprison the larrikin, or to flog or hang or
crucify him, or perpetrate any other horror
upon him, when he simply keeps on fining him
10s. every time? The country doesn't want
more law; it wants some one to enforce
the great stacks of law it has already
got. If Minister O’Connor will so fix
things that there will be enough police to
capture every brutal rowdy who breaks
the peace, and that every rowdy, when
convicted, will get a considerable spell of
“ solitary ” on low diet, there will be an end to
larrikinism ; but under his proposed system 90
per cent, of the “ pushes” will escape as usual,
and 99 per cent of those that are captured will
be fined' a few shillings as usual, and the fact
that the solitary remainder has the ill-luck to
get a brilliant flogging won’t make the slightest
difference in the result—except that an extra
policeman will be killed in retaliation, and his
murderers will never be discovered.
♦
Slab of solid wisdom from a London paper :
No proposal quite so daring has ever been put forward
by a bishop as that of the gentleman who signs himself
“F. J. Cestr.” for modifying the evils of the drink
traffic. The worthy Bishop of Chester would allow for a
moderate use of alcohol. In this he is very wise, seeing
that, in all ages, stimulants have been used by mankind,
and that one of the first things a nation does on emerging
from barbarism is to improve the quality of the wine or
beer which it has on tap. and even to drink it m larger
quantities than before. Teetotallers call this an unnatural
indulgence. I do not know how they arrive at this con-
clusion, or how, in fair argument, they could defend it. It
is true that our domesticated animals do not consume
alcohol, but this proves nothing, except that it is not
suited to their stomachs. If the lower animals were to be
held up to us as an example, many strange appetites
would have to be sanctioned by the Moral Elevation
societies. Even the taste for stimulants is probably
not exclusively human. Certain kinds of insects
are believed to intoxicate themselves with the juice
of fruits. I have been assured that spders get
drunk on grapes. Be that as it may, the fact that all
races of men take to stimulants not as the result of
imitation, but from innate disposition, is a strong proof
that alcohol is an article of consumption quite as
“ natural ” as sugar or salt, which, by the way, some of
the lower animals cannot abide. This being so, it is, to
my mind, a wise policy, if we would check the evils of
drunkenness, to limit, rather than to wholly cut off, the
supply of alcohol. Only a fanatic could wish to suppress
stimulants altogether. They do a great deal to relieve
the tedium and to help us to bear up under the fatigues
of life, while, of course, in illness they are often invalu-
able. It is when abused that they are pernicious, and at
the worst they probably do less harm in the world than
our modern habit of over-eating. Recognising these facts,
the Bishop of Chester proposes to run public-houses on a
new system and under the control of the Slate, or at
least of the municipality. He would make licensed
victualling answer to its name. Every drinking-house
would likewise be an eating-house, and while alcoholic
beverages would be frankly recognised, they would not be
allowed to monopolise the position, because temperance
drinks of every kind would be brought well to the front,
invested with prestige, and supplied in the most con-
venient, attractive, and inexpensive way. Furthermore,
the accommodation would be comfortable and spacious,
while newspapers, indoor games, and, where practicable,
outdoor games and music would compete with the
attractions-of the glass and the pewter-pot. Without
knowing it the right reverend prelate, in sketching out
the public-house of his dreams, has pictured somethin#
very like the ordinary French or Italian caf(s, especially of
the provincial towns. If this could be established anion#
us in the place of our sordid, squalid public house, much,
1 believe, would be gained in the cause of temperance. . .
The scheme, of course, lias its weak point. How the tem-
perance drink is to be “ invested with prestige,” I do not
see. A good, cheap, wholesome, refreshing temperance
drink has yet to be discovered, and this will, perhaps, lie
the first real step in any reform. .New non-alcohslic
beverages come up from lime to time, but they are, if
possible, more unsatisfactory than the old. 1 fancy the
difficulty with regard to the ideal temperance drink is
this: It your beverage does not act upon the nerves it
fails to take the place of alcohol, though it may operate
very well as a thirst quencher ; if, on the other hand, a .
nerve-tonic could he devised having the qualities of
alcohol, it would probably be just as dangerous as alcohol
itself, and differ from this only in name.
Yes, that is the difficulty—“ a temporance-
driuk with prestige.” Such a potation will be
invented about the time some newspaper-man
devises a scheme for simultaneously printing
everybody’s advertisement at the top-right-
hand corner of the best page of the paper. It
will be found, in fact, on the day when someone
succeeds in discovering a teetotal politician who
possesses and deserves prestige.
•
TheS.A. Register (Adelaide), which specially
advocates the interests of the capitalists, land-
boomers and Broken Hill directors, runs the
Evening Journal, a sort of infant Sydney
Echo. This little rag published the following
telegram from the slundykit reporter at Broken
Hill
It soon leaked out that Mr. Coffey, the Crown Prose-
cutor, and Mr. Willsiiire, the Acting Crown Solicitor,
who came from Sydney specially, having weighed the
evidence, considered that a good case had been made out.
The local authorities were agreed that it would be a wine
step to remove the leaders of the strike, as they hoped the
men ivoidd he inclined lo return to work when no longer
led hy the ears.
The paragraph didn’t appear in the Register
next day, and E. P. Nesbit, the well-known
Adelaide lawyer and democrat, who enquired
why, got for answer that “ the reference to
‘ local authorities’ was so amhiyuous that it was
omitted from the Register.” Very diplomatic.
The question now requiring an answer is
“ Where did the reporter get his information,
and was it correct ?”
•
Dear Bulletin, — Parkes to the contrary
notwithstanding, no single member of Parlia-
ment —unless be be an absolute idiot, whose
responsive emotions to all impressions are
neutralised each by its counteracting impulse,
and who is thus totally presented as an auto-
matically finished negation —can “represent
every class in the country. For no man
can clivest himself of his immediate concentric
surroundings, any more than the centre of
an onion can be independent of its outer cover-
ings. Only the worker, whose life is with
workers, and whose every act of individuality
as a worker is necessarily antagonistic to
the acts of those who, either by cunning or
force, secure to themselves indulgences at the
cost of workers, can truly “ represent ” the
worker. So the squatter in Parliament reflects
squatters outside ; the ship-owner, shipowners;
the capitalist, his own kind ; the Foreign-
trader his brethren in imported shoddy ; the
cheap-labour employer his freedom-of-contract
kin, &c., &c. “Why should not the capi-
talists,” cries Parkes hypothetically, “ the
bankers, the merchants, and the employers as a
class, have class representatives ? ” So be it .
Let them. But let class-representation be pro-
portionate to numerical actualities. flow
would the “ classes ” fare then V The workers
would preponderate as (at the very least)
twenty to one. And any army of police and
military swaggerers found necessary would be
chiefly acquired to keep in order the old capi-
talistic transgressor who tried to make the
power of money felt by the moneyless. —H.C.
Professor Vambery, of Prague, the learned
Jew who has travelled I urkestan and hates
Russia, says that Russia occupies the Pamirs
preparatory to an attack on India. He also
says that the Chinese don’t realize the danger
of the situation. The real trouble is, probably,
that the Chinese do recognize that the danger
of the situation affects England, not China. If
the Chinese weren’t pretty sure that Russia
aims at India, they might apprehend that
Chinese interests are in peril. There is reason
to believe that Russia is steadily placing herself
in positions which enable her to concentrate
against India or China, just as may best suit
her when the time for striking comes. Her
forces thus posted in positions of vantage, her
diplomatists would be able to induce China to
stand at ease on condition that the a\ alanche
should be directed against India, or the British
to abstain from intervention on condition that
it should not fall upon India, but on China. It
seems inconceivable that the Aonosti news-
paper of St. Petersburg should have, as cabled,
published such a ridiculously naive assertion
as that Russia’s sole object in advancing on the
Pamirs is to find an outlet in the Indian Qcean.
From the Pamirs to the Indian Ocean there are
hundreds of miles to be traversed, through
British India nearly all the way. The Novosti’s
declaration may have been intended for Chinese
ears.
■ ♦
Melbourne Age— -which at heart secretly
favours private ownership, or at least leasing of
railways—manages in a recent leader (Sept. 2)
to stultify itself in the clumsiest manner
possible over the recent cm cession granted to
mallee-blockholder Lascelles. Thus
Mr. Bakf,r, who was even more incoherent than usual,
declaimed against a departure from the national system
of construction, and warned the House that the ultimate
result of that departure would be the sale or lease of the
existing lines. The deduction is not a very logical one,
inasmuch as the existence of one private railway could
scarcely determine the policy of Parliament as to the rail-
way system in its entirety.
Thirty lines lower down occurs the following
It any person is willing to construct the line which Mr.
Baker favours, and off the same terms as agreed to by
Mr. Lascelles, there would probably he no objection
offered to its authorisation.
Papers engaged in extenuating cronk move-
ments of any species should really be a little
more careful nowadays.


Mrs. Beeton says : “ Claret should
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the coi
ponents happily blended into a _
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a inddly s ,
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scrip _ ‘
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad tne •
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, •
grocers, at Is., Is. Gd., 25., and Bs. a hot' > ‘ n
be recommended as purer and better wine. ■
French clarets, and they arc only one-thirc
price.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “Carmen up to Data.”
Garrick “ Alabama Minstrels.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s , “ The Lost Paradise.”
Bijou “ A Village Priest.”
Alexandra “ My Sweetheart.”
There is no present sign of any revival
among the Sydney theatres, which are at a lower
ebb than they have reached since a period so very
remote that the memory of man faileth to get the
hang of the date. The grass is beginning to
grow in the chinks of the Australian drama.
There was a time, years ago, when the present
writer nearly rushed himself off his feet trying to
report upon seven new shows in one memorable
night, and now he sees one in three weeks upon a
steady average, and even then he generally
sees the same show twice over. Tn these old
times, he learned ten different ways of falling
down the stairs of every theatre in Sydney,
and now there isn’t a manager who has energy
enough left even to tell him that bis last notice
was an outrageous misrepresentation, and that he
ought to be hanged amid universal execration.
Everything is as uneventful as a curate in the far
West, or a banker doing solitary confinement.
The manager who would import a big company in
these days, and paste his advertisements all over
the city, is reckless enough to export time-payment
pianos to Bagdad and wait for the money, and
hopeful enough to take up shares in a N.S. Wales
gold-mine, which is about the same as boring for
fresh water in the home of Mephistopheles,
«$ % «
, A few days ago the Gaiety Company gave
up the struggle to suppress Alice Leamar’s fan-
tastic dance and chorus. The gallery was too
much for them. Every night when the expected
item didn’t transpire the deities opened wide their
bristly jaws in Olympus and blew out a howl that
nearly scared the audience down below out of its
senses. At tho same time the company didn’t cave
in gracefully. It announced by advertisement that
Mr. Lonnen would repeat, “following Miss Alice
Leamar’s version of the same song,
his comical parody and whimsical
absurdity ‘ Ta-ra-ra• boom-der-ay,’
which created a perfect furore,”
&c. Considering that Miss L.
caused most of the furore every
time, this is an unfriendly way
to put it. “ Carmen up to
Data ” starts on Saturday (Octo-
ber 1), and it will also have
“Ta-ra-ra-boom-der-ay ” in it.
We don’t remember a show of any
kind for the past three months—
barring Musin’s concerts which
did not have “ Ta-ra-ra-boom,”
&0., in it somewhere.
** * *
Emerson and Wood’sAlabarna
Minstrels are doing their last two
weeks at Sydney Garrick. Sydney
owes a debt of gratitude to this
combination inasmuch as it imported
a few new jokes, and the Austra-
lian minstrel business hadn’t seen
the ghost of a new joke for eight
years previous to their arrival. Max
O’Rell opens at tho Centenary Hall
on Monday for a six nights’ season,
after which he will proceed to
infest Maoriland with Smythe in
the van. Also, an amateur dramatic
company proposes to escape from
its present place of confinement
ou Saturday and produce “An
Obstinate Family” and “ToParents
and Guardians,” at the Opera
House. The show is “in aid of a
well-known charity.” The com-
pany includes Messrs. “ Chum-
ley,” Gosohen, and George Forbes,
which latter gentleman seems to be
rather straining the voeibulary
when he calls himself an amateur.
Other shows are as usual, or
thereabouts.
The annual Eight-hour demonstration and
pic-nic takes place at Rosehill on Monday, when a
lengthy programme of sports will be got through,
including the inevitable race after the pig with
the greasy tail. Why this item is always inserted
it is difficult to guess, but probably the pig repre-
sents the typical mine-owner, and the greasiuess of
his tail symbolises the difficulty of getting him to
adhere to his agreement. There is accommodation
at Rosehill for 100,000 visitors, and the special
train arrangements are based on an estimated
attendance of 50,000. A brass band, dancing
pavilion, big art union, and a great variety of
other attractions are thrown in.
** * *
The first performance of “ The Lost Para-
dise,” at Melbourne Princess’, was only a fitful
success after all. It worked upon the feelings of
the house at intervals and held out many pro-
mises of wild excitement to come, but the young
buds of frenzy mostly withered under aggravating
circumstances. Without a knowledge of the Ger-
man play by Ludwig Fulda it is impossible to
apportion the blame for this splendid failure.
“The Lost Paradise ” was an American adapta-
tion of the original, to begin with. How much
solid German stuff has been thrown clean away,
or replaced by cheap Yankee material, and how
much of the altered play has been cut out “to suit
Melbourne audiences ” are matters for sorrowful
speculation. The play presented on Saturday
requires lengthening, anyhow. The stronger
incidents would carry a lot more dialogue and
elaboration, whilst the trivialities of a female
nigger-minstrel, named Cinders, might be liber-
ally curtailed. All the indications favour the
idea that Ludwig Fulda’s story, pure and simple,
is the story that Australia would have preferred.
» # *
The capitalist manufacturer of “ The Lust
Paradise ” is not a very bloated specimen of the
order, but a colourless humbug who has indirectly
fattened un the brains of Reuben Warner, the
superintendent of his ironworks. A new partner,
engaged to the old man’s one fair daughter, is less
of a humbug, yet more of a beast. The new part-
ner has fine, old, crusted theories concerning the
cussednoss of the working man, and when the GOO
hands demand a rise of 15 per cent, in wages he
calls the leader of their deputation an animal.
Then the leader grabs the member of the firm by
the throat and the men go out on strike, but the
strike is all in the background, and the awful con-
dition of the masses is not brought sufficiently
into notice. Nevertheless, the construction of the
second act is as clever as it is original. The
proximity of the GOO invisible toilers to tho visible
representative of hard cash is distinctly felt. There
is strong human interest in both the first and
second acts, for the matter of that, although
several chances of dramatic effect have been
missed. All this time the rich man’s daughter is
learning to be kindly disposed towards the slaves
at the works. Superintendent Reuben is plucking
this sweet society brand from the burning, some-
what against her will. Eventually she surrenders
herself and her early prejudices to the brainy
young man, who steps out on a balcony and tells
the men to resume work on the higher scale. The
new partner quits the scene altogether amidst a
supposed shower of bricks and inverted blessings
from the hungry populace outside, and the limp,
repentant father admits that the patent he has
been working was a legacy to Reuben from a
gentleman deceased. Unfortunately, the happy
ending of the trouble is arrived at in a weak,
watery way. The play has relaxed its hold upon
the audience when the curtain falls. They go
home wondering who lost Paradise, and where on
earth it has got to. Miss Henrietta Watson,
having now quite thrown off the shackles which
Mrs. Bernard-Beere presumably placed upon her
talent, is delightful as the leading girl. Her voice
always says what she means, and her manner is
as convincing as her voice. Sass, also, seems
sincerely in earnest as the superintendent, ditto
Lawrence, the new partner. Their altercation in
the presence of the lady is a scene admirably
played by all three. George Carey seems an
uneasy old capitalist, Fabert and Corlesse form a
strong labour-party, and Miss Spong, as a weary
young creature at the works, shows further
symptoms of talent for the stage. Others are not
of much importance, with the exception of Miss
Mary, Knight, who hurls her “Cinders” at the
amphitheatre with unnecessary violence. The
mounting of the play is handsome as usual,
# * *
“The Lost Paradise” was to be lengthened
and strengthened after the first experimental
performance, and should hum exceedingly,
** * *
“ My Sweetheart ” is still striking terror
to the souls of the cockroaches at Melbourne
Alexandra. Miss Agatha Greenwood, the sister
set apart for the name character, fell suddenly ill
after the first night or two, but even this solemn
warning didn’t damp the enthusiasm of her rela-
tives. They went on as though nothing had hap-
THREE OF MESTON'S MYALLS (from far North West).
pened, and fearlessly announced that the invalid
meant to appear again on Saturday. Miss Maribel
and Master Bob would, candidly speaking, act
much better if they remained away from the
theatre for an indefinite period on account of their
health. They, however, have not once failed to
appear. Every night Maribel goes through the
same strange evolutions with her head and chest
without discovering to the world her excuse
for adopting the stage as a profession. Her
singing voice is certainly above the average,
but the spectacle of Maribel in full song
is hopelessly weird and peculiar. Alto-
gether, Maribel is a most trying entertainer,
and The Bulletin begs her to stop before she
ceases to be young and beautiful. This petition
applies equally to Agatha and Master Bob, who
are younger and possibly quite as lovely. They
are all requested to stop at once.
** * *
There is nothing new to say concerning
“A Village Priest,” at the Bijou. Grundy’s
brilliant tragedy is deservedly booming, and the
reputation of the B. and B. Company has added
one cubit to its stature. For the moment nobody
dares to think of Brough as a giddy, old uncle in a
bald head, or to speak of the time when Titheradgo
and Cecil Ward used to poke their noses out of
cupboards and shriek. In point of fact such
things never could have been. Brough was in
prison for the past nineteen years, Titheradgo has
grown old in the service of the church, and Cecil
Ward comes of too serious a family to let himself
be shut up with the jam and pickles. The
characters in “A Village Priest” are as unlike
farcical comedians as the Abbe’s miracle is
different to a property baby or a pug dog. “A
Village Priest” will run for another two or three
weeks, probably, but the Mayne benefit perform-
ance of “ Richelieu” is to come off on Monday,
(Xt. 10, in any case.
* % * ’ *
Promenade concerts, at the Exhibition
and Town Hall, are doing good Saturday business,
and other places remain open with more or less
success. Sometimes a hall shuts up suddenly,
whereupon the rival establishments jubilate in
secret, and burst forth with more attractions, and
dance, as it were, upon the grave of the dead
show,
** * *
Preparations for a Christmas pantomime
of exceptional splendour are being pushed along
at the Princess’s, where the foot of clown has
never trod before. Messrs. Williamson and Mus-
grove will celebrate the birth of the new firm with
this pantomime, and take cars to make it worthy
of such an interesting event. The production is
to boat all records and surpass all understanding,
so they say. Also “Forty Thieves” is mentioned
as the title (although the title of a pantomime
makes no difference anyhow) whilst the names of
Lonnen and Miss Lethbridge are given as samples
of the quality of the talent engaged to interpret
this great work.
»* * *
Maggie Moore’s “ Struck Oil,” at Adelaide
Royal, was 18 carat. “Carrots,” however, did
not strike oil, while the new pieces staged on
Wednesday were equally incapable. The “Child
of 'the Regiment ” and “ The Fool of the Family ”
had a combined run of three nights to a House
full of empty seats. At Hudson’s Bijou the
Liliputian Opera Co. has been doing excellent
business. Tommy Hudson started there again on
Saturday with his Surprise party.
as * * *
Alex. Mayne will inaugurate his seventh
year of service under the B. and B. banner with a
complimentary benefit, on October 10, and the
occasion is to be unusually speciah The firm
invited their business manager to put a name to
any part he would like to take, whereupon Mr.
Mayne replied that he would try Richelieu, so
“ Richelieu ” was ordered on the spot. Mayne is
a histrionic volcano who very seldom erupts, but
he has all the cardinal virtues necessary for
Bulwer Lytton’s hero, and is calculated to fire off
the Curse of Rome with no uncertain aim. It
appears, moreover, that he is “emboldened to try
this higher flight ” by the fact that he “ attempted
the impersonation—in the long ago—with some
measure of success.” A Richelieu who discusses
himself in this modest strain before the event is
the more likely to paralyse ’em when he gets to
work.
** * *
W. J. Wilson, of the late firm of Hiscocks
and Wilson, has been for so long in theatrical
management that many people have probably for-
gotten that some 20 years ago he occupied a pro-
minent position in Australia as a scene-painter.
Since he recently retired from active business,
however, he has been using his enforced leisure in
painting, and has produced a small gallery con-
taining 33 works, which are on view at his resi-
dence, 151 Dowling-street, Sydney. The pictures
embrace a large variety of subjects, including
views of English and continental scenery, but the
most interesting are those showing familiar spots
in the neighbourhood of Sydney and Melbourne,
which are faithful transcripts from Nature. Mr.
Wilson’s training as a scene-painter gives him the
power of treating his subjects broadly, and the
presence of that power is particularly seen in the
free handling of his skies, which are full of variety.
All the pictures are on a small scale and carefully
finished, and anybody who desires to possess a
trustworthy record of suburban scenery which is
fast changing its aspect will find it in this gallery.
At Poverty Point.
The last brick of Sydney Lyceum Theatre was laid last
week. The dress and family circles are now in position
and the building will be shortly handed over to the
decorators. The new house is to open with a gorgeous
pantomime, in which some of the Gaiety Co. and possibly
—Tub Bulletin repeats, possibly—Nellie Stewart will take
part.
Dear Bulletin, —1 intended replying to your enquiry re
little Billy Hoskins, but ere I bad time to do so, ho him-
self saved me the pleasure. I may state, however, that
he is a bright, jolly little fellow, a favourite with every-
one, yours truly included, and there is not one of his
friends who would not be happy in adopting him. But,
I am sure, his mother would not part with him for a
f n tune, as he is her “ chum,” and a model mother she is
just as she was a model wife, who made poor old
Billy Hoskins’ declining years the happiest of his life.
Dr. Neild has always taken a great interest in the boy,
and if he is capable of being spoilt the Neild family will
do that for him.—Prompt Corner.
Three Chinamen, on a recent night, patronised Brisbane
(Q.) Opera House circle in evening-dress, but forgot to
lemove their hats. A Caucasian gentleman uncere-
moniously scattered their “ riles ” upon the floor and was
loudly applauded by all right-minded Kanaka nigger-
drivers present.
Alice Leamar hasn’t been engaged for any pantomime.
Lonnen, both on and off the stage, displays traces of
his Barry Sullivanic apprenticeship.
Really it is most impolitic of Pastor Marshall to revive
the drama just as it was dying out in Melbourne.
“The Village Priest,” in Melbourne, rouses the same
discussion, amid the Catholics, as in London. The con-
fession gives no offence, because it is treated as absurd,
this way: Abb6 Dubois could never absolve the judge of
the murder without insisting o:i his first making dis-
closure and reparation. But it’s no use taking plays to
pieces.
We are told that some of the pros, in the late Melb.
Alexandra season netted 21s. a week !
Dear Bulletin, —Melbourne people seem to forget, if
they ever knew, that Charles Cartwright played Grundy’s
“Village Priest” in his last season at Sydney Garrick.
Jenny Watt-Tanner then played her now part.—Yours,
Habitue.
Funny that Wingfield should attack sparsely-populated
Australia anent her dramatic obligations to that huge
rabbit-warren, Britain, when Britain’s uncountable dra-
matic debts to France are remembered.
Dear Bulletin,—You ask what has become of Miss
Moore, a young lady brought out by Miss Annis Montague.
If Miss Edith Moore is the same person, I had the pleasure
of seeing her in Ballarat last Easter in the J. 0. William-
s’) h Opera Co., in the parts of Oasilda, “lolanthe,” and
Phylis in “ Dorothy.” She was a decided success. I hear
on good authority she contemplates matrimony—the
“lucky man” is a young and enterprising importer.—
Ballarat.
Meston has a special clause in the agreement with
his troop of North Queensland niggers, whereby he
guarantees to protect these aboriginals against” any
attempts to confer upon them the degradation of
K.C.M.G. Any myall who is offered a K.0.M.G.-ship
shall be at liberty to leave the troupe at once and start
home, the “Sacred Ibis” to pay his passage. Also, if
that lightsome bird takes a K.C.M.G.-ship himself, the
whole party will quit him there and then. Any nigger
breaking this agreement, and becoming a knight by a
process of voluntary abasement shall be eaten by the rest
of the party without the option of a fine.
Dear Bulletin, —About that boomerang-throwing.
There are at least a dozen men in North Queensland who
can knock spots off Meston at the game. There u-.ed to
be a “ Imllocky ” named Dick Lee, on the Herbert (N.Q.),
who could fling the weapon out of sight. We used to
have our dinner while it was in the air. He never made
any noise about it, cither.—Yours, Cay.
1!. S. Sinythe owes much of his worldly success to hii
refrigerated attitude of reverential politeness. It is a
habit fossilised into second nature, and causes him to doff
his hat to the printer’s-devil of any “ organ.” —Verb sap.
—Dirso.
Tenor BeaumOnt had a hen. concert accorded to him in
Adelaide the other day. The nett proceeds amounted to
over £BO, and this was made up to a level hundred by
some friends. Not a few persons imagine that “Amies
Beaumont” is a stage name, substituted for Smith, or
Muggins, or something, but the only change made is the
dropping of the first name—Edward. “Ted” Beaumont’s
parents were fervent Wesleyans, and denounced his
entry on an operatic career, hut when Mrs. Fox (Beau-
mont’s sister) followed suit, their cup of bitterness over-
flowed. Shortly after that lady’s defection, a friend of
the family met the old man in Bourke-street, and re-
ferred to the fact that another member of his family had
gone on the stage. “My family, sir, have gone to the
devil!” shouted the irate parent. The Lysters took the
silver edge off Beaumont’s voice. When “ William Tell ”
was staged, he sang the exacting tenor part in seventeen
consecutive performances. Then followed a career of
opera-bouffe, with the inevitable result. With a judicious
use of his really lovely voice, Beaumont would have lasted
as long as or longer than Sims Reeves.
An Australian “strong man” is about to »nn.. .
Melbourne. His great feat consists in holding 111
reputations of ten bank directors with one haiuf *
he undertakes to support a falling buildinc «nr.;L 8n >
his teeth. b oclet y with
Scenic panoramas are introduced now into the
bourne Sunday entertainments. Rapidly advanob Mc *'
the status of Chicago and ’Frisco, while p,. p 'i 1 ”, to
squabble over Pastor Marshall going to see “ Th» s'-, rs
King.” B silver
The music-halls, writes our London correspondent
damaging the theatres immensely, and unless mm, 816
come down in their prices some of them will | lavu | a " ers
up the shutters. Prices of admission are
high. It is all very well to pay 10s. 6d. for a stall 00
Irving and Ellen Terry, and people don’t object to • 6
half-a-guinea to sec a good play produced bv ti ""
Beerbobm Tree, or Alexander, but it does S "em a h
that the same price is charged for admission to'some di t
little theatre to see some poor comedy ill-acted and Far
staged. Music-halls such as the Tivoli are now condnnt a
in an absolutely irreproachable way. Even at those hr
where the demi-monde is strongly in evidence matt
have much improved, and people who a few years 8
would have turned up their eyes in horror at the
being asked to go to such places are now constant f °
quenters. The fact is people nowadays want tn I
amused, and they do get amusement and change
well-conducted music-ball. a atl>
A novelty at a recent Exhibition Concert (Melh ) «■
Horace Stevens, the boy soprano of whom Tub Bulia-hm
had something to say a few weeks ago. His one soikmv
quite a success. a " as
Walter Bentley dined with Rev. Chas. Strong the mho
Sunday. Bentley’s departed father, Pastor Bego- opu ,j
have more easily forgiven his son for being an actor tlvm
for breaking bread with a “ heretic ” like Stronsr n .i ori
blessed Sawbath. B 0,1 the
Jenny Watt-Tanner played in Melbourne the other wept
under dreadful pressure of family affliction. It chimed if
with her part thoroughly, and yet you could see that
such is a dreadful drawback to the artist. The mind mint
be free. sc
Varley is sadly wanted in Melbourne, for the discussion
on Church and Stage—there is a total lack of ginger and
as for brimstone, one sniffs in vain.
Jenny Hill’s lungs being weak she comes to Australia
Let us hope that the “ Vital Spark ” may get Well on the
way.
Lionel Rignold, now playing at London Adelphi, plays
Nicodemus Dickenson, his original character, at u’ e j.
Majesty’s in October, and will appear in “Bluebeard”
the Rignoldian pantomime, at Christmas.
George Rignold opens at his own house on 29th October
with “The English Rose.” Later, he appears for the
first time as Wilfrid Denver in “ Silver King,” assisted hv
Sass and Hans Phillips as the Spider and Corkett, and
Henrietta Watson as Nellie Denver.
Katie Barry, of the Gaiety Co., thinks her mother made
a mistake somehow. She ought, she says, to have been
a boy, for she doesn’t feel a bit at home in petticoats.
Alio Leamar and Addie Conyers are both recently from
the music-halls, hence their curious pronunciation :
You may dress and cosmetic “ hall ” g’rls as you will,
But that “hall-mark,” a Cockney twang, clings to them
still.
It has been stated that “Joan of Arc,” burlesque, was
played for the first time in the Australias when essayed
by the Gaiety Co. The writer remembers it as an old
stock burlesque. Also calls to mind Greville in the title
role. And only a week ago saw a photo, of Harry Leston
in the same character.—P.C.
Peter Carmody, who has distinguished himself byhenic
conduct at several wrecks off the Victorian coast, and
Rogers, the Bendigo miner, who faced a blast to save his
mate, have both been turned out in tallow, and figure at
the Melbourne Waxworks. How about Rogers’ pathetic
plea: “Don’t make an exhibition of a fellow ! ”
Mrs. Bernard-Beere told a Ceylon reporter that “ no
proper theatre existed in Adelaide,” that "Melbourne
preferred tragedy, while Sydney had a taste for comedy,”
and that her success every where was immense. The latter
statement a member of her company “ bust up” by tell-
ing another reporter that “ the tour was none too success-
ful, and that they had to cut it short.” Everybody knows
that the Adelaide Royal is a first-class house, and Mrs.
Beere killed her tragedy reputation in Sydney by playing
that wretched “As in a Looking-Glass.”
John Bryan entertains a most inflated reverence for his
performance of the cabman in “ Silver King.” The old
’un has taken out a license for addressing the manage-
ment somewhat as follows: “Mr. Williamson, 1 am on
the stage four minutes altogether, and in (hat brief space
of time I produce a picture which for profundity of con-
ception, richness of colouring, delicacy of drawing, and
general perfection of detail, stamps me as the artist of
your company. My value is not to be estimated by the
number of lines I speak, or by the limited extent of my
connection with the plot. It is the extraordinary effect
I produce upon the house, the phenomenal dexterity with
which I assert my unbounded sway over the minds of the
admiring multitude, that entitles me to ask for a rise of
one hundred pounds per week. Ere I quit the stage, in
the act of slashing my whip at a small hoy, the character
of Wilfrid Denver has faded into insignificance. The star
of the evening is none other than John Bryan. Cabby
knows his fare.” John doesn’t get iris rise, but he goes
off to regale his friends with a description of how William-
son blushed and bung his bead during the interview,
“ By Garrick ! he knows I'm the mainstay of the show,
and his conscience smote him,” says (lie gifted Bryan.
Blondin, at OS years of age, has bee n walking anal
fresco tight-rope C 3 yards in length and 88 feet from the
ground, with never a netting to catch his intrepid carcase
if it fell. God bless Blondin ! He makes nvllions of
elderly persons feel young when they read about him.
In the list of melodies played by American organs anil
musical-boxes one finds Lonmn figuring as the author of
the “ Bogie Man.” Melbourne advts. of the Gaiety Com-
pany styled him “the original Bogie Man.” The song
was written and sung to death in Yankeeland many years
before Lonnen had heard of it.
One of the Presbyterians who took part in the con-
troversy re theatres in Melbourne Age: “You may talk
as you will, there are but two roads, the narrow and the
broad, and they will never meat. With regard to Mary
Anderson, Irving, and the others, all I can say is ‘Bless
them,’ but we are not going ou the same road.”
An actor in a Paris theatre forgot his lines recently, and
waited for the prompter to give him the cue. But the
prompter took no notice of his difficulty, and when at
last the audience began to show signs of impatience the
actor rushed off in a rage, and shook the neglectful
functionary violently. AVhen he let go the prompter sha
gracefully on to the floor and sat there looking up at u llll
in silence. He had been dead for half-an-hour.
The Ada Crossley boom was so great at Adelaide populai
concerts that every seat was reserved for the last conceit
two days before. The fair contralto sang eight times—
counting encore songs-at this concert.
Curly Bellew has been the victim of stage reaiU B ™!
playing the lead in Sims’ and Buchanan’s new Adeipm
drama, the “Lights of Home” (a return to the om
traditions of melodrama, and a big success). Hewn 1
shipwreck scene and is saved from the waves. When cane
before the curtain on the first night he came * m '"’ al ,
with his clothes as dry as tinder. This being resente ,
he appeared next night in a dripping condition. K esul •
pneumonia. ...
Dear Bulletin,-The gag “My wife won’t B’ ell, K.’
the streets are aired”—which seems to be trou» >
Poverty Point readers a good deal—is part of the pac ~
of one of Dan Leno’s songs, “The Grass Widows ,
sung by Rickards during his last season here, in ai
buting it to 11. R. you are crediting him with an origin# s
to which he is not entitled.—Yours, Jack Shay.
Walter Bentley quite gravely declared that “ l“>s
to the critics ” (religious critics) was “ the repvoaut
of the play that has been condemned.” He didn tre
“Silver King” because his friends, the enemies, j
boomed new life into the show, but in order to
noble principle that a parson may go to a theatre • .
Bells ” would have done just as well for an answer G
that Bentley must produce something, anyway) o .
wouldn’t have answered as well in the financial resp


THE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISE© 1845)
Ts A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
over all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, semi for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL. General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The man who having bet detects himself
singing before a race is doomed to lose. His only-
safeguard is hedging. Few betting men have the
courage to wager their money after having seen a
cross-eyed person. Such an occurrence is an
omen of the worst sort. The appearance of a grey
horse never fails to cause anxious search for the
red-haired girl—the combination is invincible. It
is a sure sign of success when a man keeps his
securities in the Sydney Safe Deposit.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROUGHES & WATTS
(LIMITED),
mill A Kl> TABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and Indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND,
Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips. &c., &c.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time.
Address:—
O Bond Street;, Sydney,
The Wild Cat Column.
tviiionaire Fink—creature of bills— who failed
.. ihAiinie the other day, with a deficiency of much
in Meibouine, vvas the boom-king of the South,
over. a ••>}" , )ave started life as a furniture-assistant at
and is 9al “ one o( the earliest speculations of his glory-
-308. a wee®.. dicatiol , 0 f M’Cracken’s Brewery, out of
ti “! e ' v ? s . -a credited with having made a clear £lOO,OOO.
"' luch , ’ ....,h e d into laiid-buying for all he was worth—
Th j"-f‘vvould now seem, a lot more. His tentacles ex-
a"dJ a L beyond Victoria. As he had nine hanks among
tended v a 3 eac u bank was represented by one or
his cr e* l lawyers, no wonder his creditors let him off
more uIDIO r i»
with a halfpenny in the £. # #
The insolvency business can only go two steps
. Hip next man will pay nothing at all which is
lower • and the p ers on after that will make his
0 ” sifnrs oav for the time spent in going broke at the rate
Thalf a-orown an hour, and mileage from his house to
the bankruptcy court. # #
l> j jink’s brother, Theodore, attorney and
t was the discoverer in the Melbourne Insolvency Act
P?,l. clause for “composition by arrangement,” to
i • h a score of boomers have rushed for relief. This
tin it of whitewashing has the huge advantage of being
, „ nrivntelv. The daily papers have tried to get access
tolhe papers, but Attorney-General Shiels wouldn’t let
them- # « «
a big Melbourne boomer, who has just collapsed,
spent £28,000 on a Sydney building which is now bringing
in just £2 a week.
# • •
Considering the awful language used by Simp-
i concerning Davies at the last meeting of shareholders
•the deceased Mercantile Bank, and considering that
levies rushed for the platform either to demonstrate his
•nnocenoe or to assault Simpson or something, but
emildn’t get there owing to his partner hanging on to his
oat tails-wouldn’t it be a good idea to call a special
ppiiiV and let Simpson and Davies be suspended from
the roof’in two iron cages so that neither of them could
at the other, and then let them explain themselves in
# * *
A forthcoming land-boom-aftermath sensation
relates to the alteration of figures in certain land-
certificates. # , #
Business is real bad with the devil’s brigade, in
Sidney and some haughty firms allow their junior
eartners to canvass for work. There are no land transfers,
Mid the commercial world is without a move, excepting
tor assignments, which are kept ready printed in the
merchant’s office, and thus don’t count.
ff * •
Why doesn’t Graham Berry resign his position
as liquidator of the Mercantile Bank? There are three
good reasons why he should gracefully retire, the least of
which is that he can’t find time for liquidating. Yet the
nroud knight seems to hang on to this nasty affair until
[he shareholders appeal to the Court to cast him forth.
Jimmy Munro’s return to Victoria might be
subject to all sorts of delays even after his daughter is
convalescent. Suppose James were to c»toh the measles,
instead of catching the steamer?
1 # # *
Daring the eight months between July, 1891,
and March, 1892, no less than 41 alleged “banks” and
financial institutions burst in Melbourne and Sydney,
with aggregate liabilities of £25,000,000. Did any country
with a "similar population ever show such a record before?
* # #
Nobody better understood the awful rottenness
of the Melbourne boom than the proprietor of the Land
and Property Record, an evanescent publication of the
period. One Bullen, a new-chum, spotted the oppor-
tunity to fill a want with this same Record, and his little
ra<' hadn’t been started a month before he found himself
elevated to the position of a supreme authority on land-
values, &o. Auctioneers would ask his opinion as to the
probable duration of the blessed boom, and he, with his
six months’ experience of the country, made oracular
replies calculated to encourage the formation of more
“estates” and the grow'th of advertisements for his rag.
The wonder to Bullen was that such a crazy state of
things could go on from week to week, and he was alw'ays
prepared for the bust. The instant that he saw a sickly
pallor coming over the advt. market he gathered in his
book-debts without mercy, and made a gallant, but fruit-
less endeavour to shove his suddenly obsolete journal into
a syndicate. The writer has an interesting recollection
of Bullen crossing the road to tell him, in a casual way,
that it would be all up with the land-boom in another
fortnight.
# * *
A Mr. James Mason made the funniest speech
at the Freehold Investment and Banking Co. (Melb.)
corroboree last week. This artless gentleman had hitherto
“ revered the name of Balfour, but he must say he was
not so satisfied now'.” Most people are as satisfied as
ever about James Balfour.
* * #
Rev. James Balfour, M.L.C., was actually
"received with groans” at a Melbourne shareholders’
meeting last week. If all the old idols were offered for
sale in a job lot, w'ho w’ould bid for them now?
# # *
One of the Melbourne boomers got the “ straight
griffin ” from a voice in the meeting last w'eek. He was
explaining certain' matters bearing upon His integrity and
uprightness, and he put it to the shareholders as a sort of
financial conundrum—“ Now, what would you have
advised me to do?” And the cruel voice yelled—
“ Commit suicide 1” Which reminds us that, in view of
what some of the survivors are like, the Melbourne public
are beginning to speak gently and respectfully-with a
raising of their hats the while—of the men who have
committed suicide.
* * *
A Sydney paper once more whoops up that
fallen monster, the White Rock mine, as “ a second
Broken Hill.” It is “only 35 miles from Tenterfield, and
75 miles from the Clarence River’’—which is just about
as much to the point as if it were only 975
leagues from Tiinhuotoo. The paper adds that
certain mining engineers estimated in 1888 that
there were 900,000 tons of ore in view, and that
another firm calculated the value of the visible ore at
£6,941,666, and it says nothing at all about the fact that
in the four years which have elapsed since then the White
Rook has been as consistently wretched and disappointing
as if there was nothing in sight but one solitary pound of
mullock. Let them get a bona-fide dividend out of the
mine—by the Luhrig or any other process, and then w’e’ll
help them to whoop.
* * *
It really seems as if the Barrier mine-owners
can’t get competent underground hands. You can now
detect an undertone of whine in the howls of the pluto-
cratic organs.
• * *
South Australia, before strike-time, drew
£68,000 monthly in dividends from the four chief Broken
Hill mines,
• * *
The new A.M.A. Defence Committee has at
once endeavoured to force the other side to conciliation
under the Act. Whoever refuses conciliation is the public
enemy. The mine-owners can't complain of the constitu-
tion of the tribunal, anyhow.
• # •
A recent picture-sale recalls, in a rpundabout
way, the shock received by the shareholders in a certain
gold-and-antimony mine at the time of their first cleaning-
up. After the usual delays the battery started and hopes
were fixed on loz. to the ton, but the manager reported
so often the magnificent appearance of the plates and had
lifted so much amalgam that it began to look like 10oz.-
stone. Shares bounded up to £l. Kesult: Positively
only Bgrs. to the ton, or 6Joz. of gold from 400 tons.
Explanation: The antimony had sickened the quicksilver
and amalgamated, and the manager in his ignorance had
mistaken it for gold. Tableau; Calls and liquidation.
New co. and more calls and more liquidation. The faith
some people pin to mines passeth all understanding.
* # *
“ Bayley’s find,” away to the north-east of Yil-
garn, W.A., is emptying the old Southern Cross field of
every man who is not bound under a cast-iron agreement.
But there is yet no authentic excuse for the wild stam-
pede.
# # »
The Mining Standard’s special reporter lately
said of the Faulkner mine at Pambula that “The lode is
well-defined but erratic ! ” Then we are told that “the
rumour which has gained currency that the lode to the
south is poor is untrue ; a recent crushing taken from a
body nine feet wide proves its value at 19dwts. to the ton.”
Therefore we say the mine must be worth a million 1 !
Great Heavens! would any sane man give a million for
any 25 of the best gold-mines now at work in N.S. Wales?
* * *
The result of the Bendigo gold boom—not an
empty house in the place. Pockets, ditto,
» # #
Like many another N.S.W. gold-mine the
Chandlers Creek Amalgamated Company, at Dalmorton,
has passed through great tribulation. It consists of three
claims known as the Garden Hill, the Mountain Maid and
the Alice Cornwell. After wasting over £lOOO in proving
the worthlessness of the two latter, work is now confined
to the Garden Hill which has a small but true lode of
rook. Here, too, money has been wasted in driving
tunnels for short lifts in a cross-cut tunnel 100 feet, and
then abandoning it as useless. The promoters undertook
to erect crushing machinery equivalent to a ten-head
battery, and provided a five-foot Huntingdon mill, which
is not. It is a mine of many managers, and each has
suffered for another man’s blunders.
* * *
Up to now, the alluvial drift which once formed
the bed of the Shoalhaven River has been worked in a
primitive fashion, i.e., hydraulic sluicing operations have
been carried on when heavy rains caused an accumulation
of water on or near the properties. Nevertheless, many
thousands of tons have thus been treated during
the last fifteen years. These occasional washings, as
well as innumerable prospecting tests, indicate a gold
value of from 3 to 12 grains to the cubic yard—little in
itself and nothing but wages for the workers under the
soon-to-become-obsolete old system. In different parts
of America, as well as in Maoriland, bodies of drift in size
insignificant compared to those of the Shoalhaven have
been worked at a great profit on an average of 3 grains to
the yard, and in a few instances dividends have been paid
on a yield of 1J grains. The Jessop and Spa companies
consider their wash good enough for the Vnamten-
ance of a pumping-plant erected at a cost of some
£20,000. In the annals of hydraulic gold-sluicing the 40
miles of alluvial drift on the Shoalhaven River will form
no inconsiderable part.
# * #
Because payable gold is worked below 2000 ft. on
Bendigo, it is very often said in excuse of the poorness of
N.S.W. mines that they are not sunk deep enough. Truth is
that the Bendigo mines went down because the surface
richness warranted it. They simply followed the gold
down, working out one lift of 60 or 100 feet after another,
until they have reached their present depth, and so it will
continue. Generally in N.S.W. either the reefs or gold
gave out, and, in the natural order of things, the share-
holders “went down ” instead of the shafts. The rule
throughout the world is that mines rich at the surface are
rich at depths. N.S. W. has had many rich surface mines,
hut, unlike those of Bendigo, they were small veins which
petered out in deeper and harder country.
# * *
Mr. Sinclair, the recent purchaser of Mount
Costigan mine and machinery, has made another start
with it, and a list of good assays has been published. But
does it not strike the average man that a mine, having a
costly plant both for concentrating and smelting, which
failed to pay with silver at 4s. 2d., cannot reasonably be
expected to do so at 3s. 2|d., unless it has wonderfully
improved ? Three years ago it paid one dividend of 2s. 6d.
on £lO,OOO capital—alleged to have been paid out of
capital. Shares went from shillings to pounds and back
to pence. Then followed liquidation, re-formation, and a
second liquidation. The Bulletin wishes Mr. Sinclair all
luck. A private owner may do better than a company'.
#* . #
One day last week the aggregate |value of the
ten leading N.S.W. silver-mines on Sydney share-market
was £4,345,125. At the end of February last the same
mines were worth on the market, £10,268, 250.
» * •
Webbs’ Consols, N.S.W., is again at work. It
is not Webbs’ or near it as its name leads many to think.
There are some plucky men in the Consols. The last
report is that 22 tons of 70 oz. silver ore and 60 per cent
lead have been sent away for treatment. It is a galena
lode with the characteristic fault of all galena lodes—
irregular in size and generally' too small for dividends.
* * *
The statutory meeting of the Aladdin’s Lamp
Co., held recently in London, was distinguished by the
declaration of an interim 2s. dividend—£lo,ooo. This co.
has had a wonderful run of luck. Its working capital,
£lO,OOO, has never been touched ; therefore the jubila-
tion of its London shareholders is excusable. The Mining
World satirically remarks that their visions of wealth
may be only an illusory paradise which may melt away
to leave a heavy gloom behind, and adds that precocity is
sometimes a sign of approaching collapse. The crushings
of the last four months have been astonishingly rich, but
we notice the tide is turned, and, judged by the light of
the past, we foresee the end of the present flood-tide at no
great distance. Perhaps it would have been better
had manager Newman so laid out his work as to
maintain a monthly average of say 1000 ozs. Be its end
ever so near, the patch is a good one, and we can only
hope they will soon discover another as rich. For we
want to see some English people make money out of a
N.S.W. gold mine.
* * *
A fine body of quartz, several feet thick, a 20-
ton crushing from which has gone 40ozs. to the ton, has
been found in the Oakev Creek mine, Wattle Flat, in the
Bathurst district. One'party’s fortune is another’s fate
in mining. It is so in this instance. Some two years ago
this mine was taken up by a Sydney syndicate who
erected a ten-head battery, had one or two good crush-
ings, declared a dividend instead of creating a reserve-
fund. Stone became poor, calls unpaid, mine in liquida-
tion, battery and mine lately sold for £370, purchased by
a party of tributors who, we hope, will make their for-
tunes out of their find. It is premature to express any-
thing but a hope.
* * *
The curse (?) of Deeming : The booming of the
Southern Cross (W.A.) goldfield.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Listen to the anti-totahsator squeal of the
Svdney papers, hired in the bookmaker interest. But
The Bulletin hopes that when the machine is introduced
all the men who run totes, except on the racecourse, will
be sent to gaol.
# # *
Morris Jacobs, a highly-connected bookmaker
with an ancestral horror of the canaille, has struck a new
reason for despising and rejecting the totalisator. Some
time ago Jacobs was in Adelaide, it appears, and there the
democratic, levelling tendency of this vulgar machine
came under his notice in a decidedly startling manner.
“One of the nobility”—name not mentioned, but pre-
sumably a viscount or a lord of the first quality—hap-
pened also to be in Adelaide at the time, and naturally
turned to his friend Morris for companionship and sym-
pathy. They conversed freely together, did these kindred
souls. They talked about the weather and the low level
of civilisation in the colonies and so forth, as any two men
of culchaw' might, and at last Morris enquired “ What
does your R’yle Highness think of this bloomin’tote V”
The nobleman, we are given to understand, coughed
haughtily, and remarked that the introduction of the
damned machine “placed his servant on exactly the
same footing as himself when he was desirous
of making a wager.” “S’elp me, so it do. I'd
never thought of that, your majesty,” answered the un-
titled aristocrat. From that time forward, Morris Jacobs,
Esq., has been agin’ the totalisator more than ever, and
last week, in discussing the question with a Melbourne
newspaper interviewer, he quoted the very words of that
member of the nobility in proof of his own private asser-
tion that the tote is “not a desirable innovation.” The
Bulletin herewith retracts everything it has said in favour
of the machine. The miserable thing, as we now perceive
at a glance, would break down class distinctions, and
place such a man as Sir Matthew Davies on the same
footing as the humblest shareholder in a busted bank,
unless, indeed, the authorities can arrange for the issue
of spec’al gilt-edged tote tickets to members of the uppah
ten only.
* # #
An “arrangement” lias been made by which
the Totalisator will get no chance to spoil the bookmaking
business at the coming racing “carnival,” anyway. The
racehorse-owning influences, in conjunction with that of
the blessed Church, have worked the job very prettily in
the Vic. Council, and for the present the punting public
must continue to go periodically “broke” in the imagi-
nary interests of a handful of gambling horse-owners.
*. # *
Dear Bulletin,—In last issue, under above
heading, I notice you refer to next Melbourne Cup falling
on All Saints’ Day. As a coincidence, you take occasion
to refer to a couple of horses having “ St.” to their names.
There is a third—“St. Eadfast.” “Be ye steadfast,” if
this particular horse be the elect of the stable’s trio.—
B tlSHY,
* # #
Frantic, winner of the Rand wick “Spring”
jumping treble, w'as once a shearer’s hack. He won
heaps of races up country, chiefly round Wagga, ere
coming to town to take the talent down.
# # *
There is a horse named Banker somewhere in
Australia. If that animal’s son is not named Burst, the
owner will lose a fine opportunity of demonstrating the
eternal fitness of things.
# * *
The accident to the Newcastle-Sydney race-
train last week brings up memories of the Cootamundra
smash. When news reached Sydney of the accident to
the train laden with race people from Melbourne a meet-
ing w T as going on at Randwick, and poor Billy Freeman
at once offered to take 100 to 5 “ that not one of the Jews
was killed.”
* # *
When the smash happened to the Newcastle
train a lot of the books, were playing Nap., and the
money W'ent flying in every direction. Ic is only fair to
the Chosen to state that the one man who remained in
the carriage was a Scotchman, who kept on lighting
matches and searching for coin until dragged out by main
force.
# # *
In the present instance, the narrow escape from
a fatal accident didn’t give the “ sports” release from the
ruling passion. When gathered round the fire, two of
the bookies had a “scrap” over the disputed ownership
of a pound-note.
* * *
The Sydney hounds ran over an aniseed trail
out Hurstville way last Saturday. The meet was the
first, and threatens to be the last in that district. Every
prad for miles round was requisitioned, and property-
owners insurrected against the gay huntsmen who
ploughed their paddocks and smashed their fences. Then
the hounds tackled stray goats and cows, and one old
2S0lb. lady arose in her wrath, armed with a fence-rail.
# # #
Goddard writes from America to a Sydney
sporting paper ; —“ Do not run away with the idea that
because Jackson beat Slavin he can beat me. The day he
meets me he will want to be in his best shape, or I will
shake him, and don’t you forget it.”
* # *
It is very encouraging to be “ straight” now-a-
days. Spicer, the Victorian cyclist handicapper, says
that Con. Dwyer was the best scratch man to handicap
from he ever had, as Con. always tried to win, and
generally finished close up, thus giving an excuse for the
handicapper to give increased starts to the men who
finished behind him, no matter whether they were stiff or
not. The same thing occurs in racing. If an owner
always runs his horse to win (how many do it?) he gets
the weight up for running seconds and thirds, while those
who run byes get let in lighter every “schlenler.”
* # *
By placing a heavy tax on stallions, and all
racing horses and ponies, the Australian Governments
could raise a few pounds and the standard of horseflesh at
one and the same time.
# # *
Corbett and Charles Mitchell, of England, are
to fight for £5000. This should be Corbett’s toughest job
to date.
# * *
The Sullivan-Kemp squabble spoilt what little
interest there might have been in the Sydney professional
rowing fizzle. The committee say they instructed the
starter not to sta/t Sullivan over the course, and as
Sullivan, Kemp, the umpire, and each committee-man
has each his version of the subject, the stakes are bound
to be law'yer-pouched.
# # #
The backing of Zalinski for the Melbourne Cup
doesn’t necessarily mean that the stable will not trot out
another favourite within the next five weeks. On the
other hand, it was necessary to back Zalinski in good time
if business be meant with him, because the public don’t
let such horses remain at 20 to 1 until the day draws
near.
■ * * *
At a recent chopping-match near Hobart, D.
Vince, Tasmania’s champion chopper, cut through', a
standing block of wood measuring 6ft. 2iin. in girth in
5rain. 28sec.; the second man, with a 5ft. Gin. log, getting
through in 5rain. Slsec. With the same log at “under-
hand” chopping, Vince’s time was 5min. ; the third man
of the “standing-block” contest coming in second at
6min. with a log of 5ft. lin.
* * *
The Australian horses, Sir Modred and Cheviot,
should prove a big ad. for us in the States. Sir
Modred’s stock up to August 1 had placed more races to
their credit than that of any other sire in America, whilst
of 19 starters by Cheviot in 1891 and 1892 not one ran un-
placed. During 1889, '90, ’91, and ’92, 89 Sir Modreds
have annexed £64,650 in stakes, whilst in ’91 and ’92,
with 19 starters the Cheviots have scored £5774.
A bine sky but a heavy trade on Saturday :i(
the second championship meeting of the N.S.W. amateui
athletic association. In the 220 yards Shappere came ii:
first, but a protest was lodged by Corti and upheld, an«
tlie race ordered to be run again. Shappere refused to
run again that afternoon, and Corti had a “ walk over.”
J. G. Maiden and Shappere ran a dead-heat for the 10C
yards, in 10} seconds, and the run off takes place on
Friday next. The other championships were secured by
K. F, M’Crae, half mile, 2min 8 3 5 secs. ; 0. M’Pherson,
220 yards, all schools, 25 secs. ; three miles, J. F. Dal-
rymple, IStnin. 54 1-5 secs.; 120 yards hurdles L. S. Flett,
18 2-5 secs. ; 440 yards, A. E. Shappere, 53} secs. : one
mile, E. E. Corner, 4min. 48 1-5 secs. ; mile walk, A. A.
Bullock, 7rain. 31 2-5 secs. ; three miles walk, T. A.
Challinor, 28min. 53 secs. ; and high jump, VV. G. Cole,
with 5ft. 4in. Nothing to blow about in any department.
* # *
The meeting of Griffo and Martin Denny should
prove a stubborn contest. No need to tell of Griffo’s
phenomenal science, or that Denny carries on his belt an
unbroken list of victories, including that over Englishman
Baxter. Denny has hitting power in his favour—his
right hand is of the smashing order; whilst Griffo can’t
hit hard, bis army of admirers to the contrary notwith-
standing. It only' remains to be seen if Denny has the
cleverness to land his right where it will do most good.
« # #
The cricket scribes hotly champion the Aus-
tralian Eleven for England, but the public is very
dubious.
*- # #
A self-laudatory professional tipster changed
his opinion four times on the morning of Metropolitan
Day, and then did not succeed in getting a placed horse
# # *
The Centennial (Newcastle, N.S.W.) football
team have won 71 out of 75 matches—a world’s record,
perhaps - and will play the winners of the Sydney badges,
the Centennial’s bright, particular star is Monty Cooke,
a fist, youngster, who can’t be knocked out save by being
kicked in the jaw with both feet
* * *
The forthcoming contest between Jackson and
Corbett will probably be the most scientific and 'digest
of modern times.
A Sydney merchant has just engaged an
architect as his coachman, and an ex-Coldstream
Guards captain as a footman. The latter, by the
way, is son of a well-known Irish Judge. Such
are the luxuries now open to the Australian ready-
money man.
Dear Bulletin, —Have you noticed it ?
Some M.’sP. have a chronic habit (when there is
a Parliamentary crisis in which it is particularly
hard to foresee which way the cat will jump) of
becoming dangerously ill at their country resi-
dences.— Duehaw.
The Sydney Free Doss Palace is to be
taken away from the houseless unemployed in
order to oblige the “ Ladies’ Committee,” in con-
nection with the Chicago Exhibition. The com-
mittee want to hold a preliminary local show of
“ women’s work ” —in women’s way. And, as
usual, “ Ignoblesse oblige.”
Self-denial week of the Australian Salva-
tion Army is just over, and a committee of pawn-
brokers would readily buy it out for another ten
thou., same as last year. All the logic is on the
side of a captain, who put down an inquiry at one
of the meetings, the other night: “ If you trust
the General, well and good—if you think he’s a
rogue, don't have anything to do with him.”
When Max O’Hell was welcomed at the
town-hall of a Hunter River city the other day,
the toast of his (health, proposed by the Mayor,
was supported by the Anglican incumbent. Next
day the audacious cleric was waited upon by a
deputation from his flock, who could not under;
stand how their pastor could wish health and
prosperity to “a man who gave comedy-lectures.”
Sydney Soap and Candle Co. aver that
in N.S.W., since an import-tax was levied on
candles, the price to the consumer has not been
raised, although the importers put on pressure to
make the Co. raise it; that since the advent of the
duty tallow has been bringing <£1 a ton more in
the local market; and that when they get their
new machinery they will employ 300 additional
men.
Do the present N.S.W. Government really
want to stay in office, after all? When they
entered on their duties they found an empty
Treasury—Parkes always leaves an empty Trea-
sury— :and a liability of =£3,500,000 to face on
current conti’acts. And now, on his own showing,
Minister Lyne has undertaken further public
works to the extent of a million, part of which is
to be spent on the Burwood-Marrickville railway,
a land-sharks’ job.
That unique event, Manly annual wild-
flower show, was this year as successful as usual ;
even the leadenness of the ceremonial orations did
not suffice to destroy the eclat almost traditionally
inherent to the opening, over which Governor and
Lady Jersey presided. Her ladyship’s speech
had reference to the beeses and the treeses; and
Mr. Jim Toohey, M.L.A., soaring, as is his wont,
into more elevated regions, poured forth his soul
concerning the angels and the trumpets, or some-
thing of the sort. The receipts, which go to the
funds of one of the local churches —each has its
turn— have been considerable.
When a deputation headed by Harry
Burgess and others waited upon N.S.W. Attorney-
General Barton in April re the starving un-
employed of Sydney, and asked him to put
aside, say, .£2000 to settle a portion of them on
Crown lands, Mr. Barton said it was impossible,
as no Government would be acting constitutionally
in spending money belonging to the people with-
out the sanction of Parliament. Mr. Burgess now
writes from Wagga inquiring what Parliament
sanctioned the giving of £1000 towards Sir G.
Republican Dibbs’ expenses to England ?
Presbyterian Federal Assembly, at Ade-
laide, S.A., negatived a motion, on thecasting-
vote of the president only, that the Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) mine-owners be approached with a
suggestion that they meet the miners in confer-
ence. It is a cheering sign when a body of Pres-
byterian clergymen, the hardest-headed set of men
to whom a newspaper-reporter has ever to listen,
is so equally divided as to need a casting-vote to
support the cause of the “ respectable ” gamblers
whose labour-cozened coins go to support the
kirk.


PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
None better—G NU N Darlings.
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, tc
Feel Well—Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
f
MIND YOUR EYES!
/T® BUY GLASSES from clever, experienced Opticians, and nob from Jewellers, Iron-
mongers, Street Hawkers, and such like.
The name of FROST and SHIPHAM, the Spectacle Makers, is famous throughout
Australia. They have made the science of optics, as applied to the eyes, a special study, and
being practical Spectacle Makers as well, their advice should be worth having. On application,
will forward (without any charge) to any address, their new treatise, “EYESIGHT
PRESERVED : Spectacles - their use, when required, and how to purchase,” together with,
tests for trying the eyes and full price-lists.
/t® BE ADVISED ! YOUR SIGHT IS PRECIOUS ! It costs you no more to get
Spectacles from clever, skilful people than from inexperienced dealers.
Finest Brazilian Pebbles a Speciality. Spectacles, &c., Repaired; Pebble Frames, ic., Fitted.
WRITE —lt is no trouble to answer questions
FROST
SHI PHAM (E. A. OSBORN and H. S. JERDAN, Sole Proprietors), 462, 474 and 587 George Street, SYDNEY
PAUSODOISTOPTIC SPECTACLES .A.IR-E THE BEST
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is said that Dibbs’ tour cost at least twice
a thousand.
Federation is the latest cure suggested for
Victorian “depression.”
Another coincidence. Bail for the Broken
Kill Defence Committee, =£looo each.
It has already been fixed, we hear, that
the Broken Hill men are to be tried at Denili-
quin.
Will some M.P. move for a return of
the exact amount of revenue N.S. Wales gets
from Broken Hill ?
All three doctors in the S.A. Legislature
are decided democrats, while nearly all the law-
yers are rank conserva' ives.
A curious coincidence. Dibbs announced
his conversion to Protection at twelve o’clock on
the first day the Star was published.
Wise : “ You know the people will speak
for Freetrade.” Traill; “You have said that for
years, and you have lost at every election.”
Governor Hamilton (Tas.), according to a
London paper, is likely to be succeeded by Agent-
General Sir Edward Braddon. Surely not!
In West Australia plural votes are recorded
in a perfectly shameless manner. If an elector
can't personally attend all the polling-places ho
can vote by proxy.
Asked to define a mob, Premier Dibbs said
it was “ a collection of people who tried to take
government out of the hands of the Government.'’
The Opposition, for instance ?
The Czar has prohibited Jews from giving
their children Christian names. A Jew who
takes a Christian name is very like a—er —a
Republican who takes a title.
Parkes’ latest speeches prove that he sees
ffiat is ahead : the N.S.W. Freetrade and Pro-
tectionist Conservatives will coalesce, and be con-
fronted by a Radical opposition.
In Queensland Assembly any man who
attempts a word of adverse criticism of the
Government is now instantly muzzled under the
new Ministerial Standing Orders.
Twenty-nine to seventeen (out of 72 mem-
bers) carried what will probably be a repeal of
payment of members in Queensland. Even this
was a large opposition to a Griffilwraithian mea-
sure.
Some high and lofty tumbling may be
expected in the N.S.W. Assembly among the
Labour-party ere long. Poverty is, in some direc-
tions, one of the strongest bulwarks of Conser-
vatism.
Muttaburra Chinaman, on hearing of the
proposed exodus of Queensland shearers to Argen-
tina :“ My word ! Welly good. Me give fi’ pong
sendee off.” The yellowtail had his eye on the
main chance.
Caldwell, M.P. (S.A.), says that “China-
men are as much entitled to hold N.T. gold-mining
leases as Germans or Frenchmen.” As one-third of
Caldwell’s constituents are Germans, he will yet
suffer for this.
Has the public ever noticed how effec-
tionately city land-salesmen cling to certain
Governments in N.S. Wales? Every Premier
appears to have his own special auctioneer as a
sort of bottle-holder.
Miller, M.P., the other day, reminded the
legal members of S.A. Assembly, that the most
famous measure yet locally passed (Torrens’ Real
Property Act), was drafted and piloted through
the House by a layman.
“ Law represents from age to age the code
of the dominant or ruling class, slowly accumu-
lated, no doubt, and slowly modified, but always
added to, and always administered by, the ruling
class. ” — Edward Carpenter.
Woman Suffrage has finally passed Maori -
land Legislature, and it has been provided that
women may vote without going to the polling-
oooths. The new law will involve an addition to
the register of 70,000 names.
Ewing, M.P. (N.S.W.) : “ Any man who
oelieves in the future of Australia is a coward if
he does not endeavour to further the union of
Australia before the face of Queensland is scarred
with black labour as with a whip.”
Brisbane Courier, Sept. 21 :—“ The
member for Cambooya (Perkins) was in more than
usual good form, and had his say despite the
efforts of the Speaker to keep him to the subject
before the House. ” “ Usual good form ”is neat.
W. E. Abbott, the self-appointed press
mouthpiece of the banded employers of N.S.
Wales, declares that rather than “ surrender ” to
the “ degrading tyranny ” of the “ new unionism,”
he “ would live a freeman by catching ’possums.”
The Age has a lucid interval, and pictures
a fi colonial” Governor —“A gentleman with a
cooked hat and a strip of gold lace down the
course of the sciatic nerve.” Sometimes the
Chinaman gets his god down and jumps on him.
Ever since his black-labour apostacy, ,
Griffith seldom makes a speech without attempt-
ing to justify his nigger policy. Griffith’s prin-
ciples have always been just what his coloured
laboured recantation proved them to be—half-
caste.
Dibbs declares that he could have been
leader of the Freetrade party had he remained
with them. For how long? His present position
has been threatened over and over again, but
Parkes would have jostled him out of the other
billet long ago.
About 40 years ago, South Australia parted
with land at Mount Gambier for <£l per acre. The
squatters bought it, made fortunes, and now reside
in England in great style. The Government now
wish to repurchase, and propose paying .£35 per
acre for the same land !
“It is understood that more damning
evidence will be brought out to-morrow than has
yet been taken,” is the daily addendum to the
daily paper reports of the police-court proceedings
against the Broken Hill strike leaders. And yet
nobody is committed for contempt of court.
There is some grim humour over the
Griffilwraith roll-sweeping business. One pro-
letarian outcast interviewed the Brisbane Registrar
and enquired if his name was “on.” “No! off.
Dead !” was the reply. “Wot! dead agin? By
gawd, this is the sixth time I’ve been dead !”
Perkins, M.L.A. (Q.) seriously suggests
that Parliamentary Government in Queensland
ALL HE CARED.
ARCHITECT : “Hello! All right up there?"
WORKMAN: “Yus, surr.”
ARCHITECT : “You won’t fall?”
WORKMAN: “No, surr.”
ARCHITECT (vehemently): “Fall asleep, I mean.”
should be suspended for three years and either
Griffith or MTlwraith appointed dictator for that
time._ What’s wrong with the present dual dicta-
torship? Isn’t it giving satisfaction enough?
Eye-glass Reid was struggling in a
paroxysm of invective against Premier Dibbs,
and shook with the vehemence of his philippic.
“ He’s in a rage, Mick, isn’t he?” says a man from
Oireland, in the strangers’ gallery, to his friend.
“It’s a Reid shaken be the ‘wind,’ Tim,” sez
Mick.
Ewing, member for the Richmond (N. S. W.)
who always sits behind the Government, makes
the Assembly a place for delivering undress but
full rehearsals of the lectures he afterwards gets
off his chest at Casino School of Arts. Abstract
utterances don’t commit you to support anybody
or anything, don’t you know.
The Brisbane unemployed labour bureau
is just over the road from a “ swell ” hotel. Any
day in the week you can see a dozen fat men
blinking lazily through the smoke of their cigars
at a hundred lean, hungry - looking wretches
squatting on the kerbstones across the way—an
epitome of the whole social question.
Amongst the supporters of the reduction
of payment of members in Queensland are four of
the Ministry who, a year ago, resisted a similar
movement tooth and nail. There are also some
few private members among them who not so long
since were whining about Brisbane of the ruin it
would involve them in. Conclusion obvious !
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
•shortest notice, =£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
“ Economy ” has led the S.A. Government
to strike from this year’s estimates a vote of .£lOO
intended to pay for swimming-lessons for State-
school children of Adelaide City. Yet, among
the new votes are ,£2OO a year extra for a Chair-
man of Committees in the Council —which goes
into committee for about half-an-hour a week on
an average.
How past actions boomerang on the poli-
tical head! Dibbs, the denouncer of Parkes’
unauthorised expenditure, is himself similarly
denounced, Dibbs, who—although he and Slat-
tery sympathised with the maritime strikers at a
Domain meeting —agreed with Parkes’ Gatling-
gun demonstration at Newcastle, now is favoured
with Parkes’ approval over the Broken Hill
arrests.
The Victorian Upper House is very con-
siderate to land-boomers. It amended a Bill to
curtail the power of municipalities to draw rates
from lands, the avowed object being “to afford a
measure of relief in the payment of rates to land-
syndicates and others burdened with large subur-
ban estates thrown on their hands by the collapse
of the land-boom.” As fairly relieve the man who
lost his pile at poker, or put his last shirt on the
wrong horse.
The Victorian Government has not officially
censured Speaker Bent and the boss flunkeys of
the two Houses for giving that “ enthusiastic
welcome ” to Matthew Davies the other day.
Therefore, people are asking whether the reception
of Davies was a State function, and whether
Dibbs favours, instead of
the American mail service via
’Frisco, that by way of Van-
couver, which will pass entirely
through British territory. It is
just as well to preserve us from
the contamination of Republi-
canism. Damn Chicago !
“ One-tenth of the popula-
tion of the State of New York
are more or less paupers; now,
Sir George Dibbs, what about
the blessings of Protection ? ”
says Sydney Echo. Curiously
enough, Mulhall, the great
English Freetrade statistician,
draws attention to the fact that
there are 1,015,000 paupers in
Freetrade Britain—and that in
Protectionist France there are
only 290,000; while as regards
the United States he doesn’t
mention the existence of any
paupers at all. Will the Echo
kindly hunt up some reliable
authority for its lies ?
Among the papers recently
laid on the table of N.S.W.
Assembly and “ordered to be
printed ” was an elaborate return
relating to the discharge of a
small boy who used to be tele-
graph-messenger at a country
station—said boy having been
dismissed partly because he was
cheeky and inefficient, and
partly because his uncle used
to haunt the office and raise
Cain about a rise of salary for
the grinning youth. How much
will the printing of this return
cost, and who will read it when
it is printed ?
It is a curious commentary
upon the mining laws of N.S.W.
that, if Attorney-General Barton
did rely upon George IV, and if
he did—as he boasted in Parlia-
ment he would do, if necessary
—want to put that conspiracy
law also in motion against mine-
owners, he couldn’t do so in
the case of the principal lockers-
out of Broken Hill. Simply
because, having their head-office
in Victoria, while their mine is
in N.S.W., they are, so far as
George IV. is concerned, out-
side the province, and are not,
therefore, “subject persons.”
They “conspire” in Victoria,
but carry out their plan of cam-
paign in N. S. Wales.
Bent, Jenkins and Robinson were deputed to
sbake him by the hand on behalf of Parliament
and his bleeding country, or were simply whooping
for the gentleman on their own account. The
matter will bear thinking over, anyway.
Sydney Daily Telegraph wants to know,
in a leading article, “Why should either side”—
in the Broken Hill strike—“object to an uncon-
ditional conference?” Well, partly because the
Telegraph gang (limited) have howled for eight
weeks about the utter brutality of the miners for
asking a conference; partly because they had a
conference some two years ago, and fixed an agree-
ment which the mine-owners tore up whenever it
suited them to do so; and partly on account of
the Dora Dora blacks.
Parkes last week “slated” Labour-mem-
ber Black for interjecting that “Bad laws should
be broken in order that they may be repealed.”
Now, the old man was one of the fiery patriots—
before the days of Australian responsible Govern-
ment —who werq ready to oppose the landing of
convicts by force, if need be. Later, only the
other day, he was prepared to be guilty of treason,
to break Imperial laws, in opposing the entrance
of the Chinese should the British Government
insist on our observance of the treaty with China,
Ringnose Wise says that of 72 political
economists whose works have a place in the library
of the British Museum, only two advocate Pro-
tection. Time was when only one man taught
that the earth was round ; time was when of a
hundred scientific writers whose works reposed in
that same library only one taught that electricity
was a form of motion and not a form of matter.
Moreover that musty institution is a fit tomb for
the works of Freetrade writers, for the genus ig
growing scarce and is likely soon to disarms
entirely. 1 ‘ eat
A Scotch M.P. is to move that the Britisl
Admiralty be instructed to place a troopsbin 1
two at the disposal of British M’s.P. w ho , n ° r
desire to make a round trip to the “chief Briti ]
colonies.” It is suggested that 300 member'
would avail themselves of such a chance. T|
idea is proposed mainly with a view that hon 9
members may learn for themselves whether Mel'
bourne is the capital of Cape Colony or of Hon
duras, and whether Dubbo would make a good
Central-Pacific coaling station for the Britisl
navy, in the event of a war with Morocco. 1
In a leader (Sept. 23rd.) the S.M. Herald
acknowledges that the apparent party divisions in
the N.S.W. Assembly do not correspond to the
party divisions between advanced democracy and
conservatism outside, and that Government i n
consequence, means “futility and instability”
In effect, it counsels a coalition of Conservative
Protectionists and Freetraders. This will im
evitably force on a democratic coalition of Radical
Freetraders and Protectionists. The Herald
further regrets the “ tone of calculated exaspera-
tion ” that has delayed the conservative coalition
In short, it wants to “ sink the fiscal question.”
How some papers report. Dibbs in
N.S.W. Assembly interjecting on Parkes, who
had boasted that he never used a Government
steam-launch for private purposes :
(Sydney Daily Telegraph.) (Hansard.)
Sir George Dibbs : Your Sir G. D.: The hon. mem
weakness has been special ber’s special weakness has
trains. been special trains.
Sir Henry Parkes ;If I Sir H. P. : I took a special
have taken a special train train the other day and I
for myself I have paid for paid for it.
it —(cheers)—and I have not ' Sir G. D.: When the hon
taken special trains except member was a Minister ’
on rare occasions. Sir H. P. : I have not
Sir George Dibbs ; Oh, of taken special trains except
course, it is always rare on rare occasions. 1
occasions. Sir G. D.: Of course, & c .
T. J. Houghton’s proposed plebiscite on
the N.S.W. tariff, if carried out as now formu-
lated, would make a laughing-stock of a valuable
democratic instrument intended to be used for
discovering the real will of a majority of the
people. It is fooling with absurdity to demand a
plain “ Yes ” or “No ” in answer to this alleged
question :
Are you in favour of the imposition of specific import
duties on goods, cereals and other merchandise that can
be advantageously manufactured or produced within the
colony of New South Wales?
This is begging the whole question. Are you in
favour of heaven, of regular square meals, of good
digestions, of undisturbed livers, of anything
“advantageous”? Who is to declare what
articles can be “advantageously manufactured or
produced ”in N.S, Wales ? The “ advantageous-
ness ” is the whole question at issue. Houghton
must try again.
Parkes’ peculiar subtlety in turning an
awkward attack and converting it to the dis-
advantage of his assailant was beautifully shown
in the no confidence debate on Thursday last
when Crick and Rose flung his unauthorised pur-
chase of Rossiville estate for a lunatic asylum at
a gross over valuation, at him. He immediately
remarked with a pious air that he “could not
understand the humanity of men who would make
light of the heaviest and darkest affliction that
can fall on humanity,” and so on for several
minutes, concluding “If I have erred in that way,
I have erred on the side of the noblest philan-
thropists in the world,” the point being that he
was charged with buying an unsuitable site,
where the asylum drainage would pollute the Goul-
burn water supply ; that he bought it at far more
than its value; and that the Government already
possessed a superior site in the neighbourhood.
Indoor Work.
An American physician declares that indoor
workers suffer more from kidney and liver disease
than any other class of workers. He says, “ A
man goes to his office and sits there all day, and
never thinks of relieving the tension on the
muscles of the back, the result is that the muscles
of the kidneys become soft and flabby and lose
their vitality, the kidneys themselves become
weak and_ debilitated, and the final result is con-
firmed Bright’s disease, probably ending with ex-
treme nervous prostration. The signs of the onset
of such diseases are well known, the appetite
becomes fickle, the eyesight fails, palpitation
ensues, a weak feeling is experienced, and a small
ache in the small of the back. Now, when these
first appear the case is only beginning, and proper
treatment always results in a permanent cure, but
if neglected the complaints pass into the chronic
stage, and then require very protracted attention,
and the oases sometimes become so complicated
that even the most careful treatment fails. If
ever any medicine earned the praise of thousands
for its undisputed and proved merit, Clements
Tonic has done so, even those most conservative
men, the doctors, acknowledge its genuine charac-
ter, it has made its way into every house, even
against great opposition, for the people of this
country have been so imposed upon with useless
catch-penny nostrums, that they were at first
sceptical about the merits of this remedy, but it
has lived down all doubt, and has positively
proved itself so universally successful that it is
used with confidence now in every house, and no
one has so far had to regret the confidence placed
in Clements Tonic. W. H. Rothery, Esq., Vic-
torian Inspector of Factories, writes from The
Parade, Ascot Vale: “I have much pleasure in
stating that I have taken Clements Tonic, with
good results. I had the influenza, and a racking
cough, clammy sweats, which caused great weak
ness and nervousness. After taking three bottles,
the cough and clammy sweats left me, my appetitf
improved and the pains in my chest have beer
removed. To all who suffer, I would strongly
recommend Clements Tonic,” Mr. Rothery’s casf
would undoubtedly have ended in consumption
had it. not been for the timely use of thif
remedy.


Brink only Wolfe's Schnapps. Soft as love
aiul cooling as his fan.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
KOLLEU ELOU It.
Wolfe’s Schnaits—avoid cheap imitations.
Wolfe’s Sohnaits cheers and strengthens.
At Forest Lodge you pan buy G N U N
Darlings.
We are a happy family because father smokes
G N II N Darlings.
Out for a stroll, smoke GNUN Darlings,
In the gloaming with my G N U N Darling.
On the block, smoke 6NUN Darlings.
A well-invested 3d.—a 6NUN Darling.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stimulates the hair to a
vigorous growth. It contains all that can be
supplied to make the hair beautiful and abundant,
removes dandruff, and renders the hair flexible
and glossy.
Personal Items.
Speaker Bent (Vic.) is a native of Penrith,
N.
Minister Slattery’s father was a Parramatta
corcbvainer.
James Service was educated as a Presby-
terian minister.
The Jewbilee Juggins of Victorian finance
-Sir Benjamin.
Ageut-Genoral Saul Samuel will be
years old to-morrow (Oct. 2).
Dean Macartney, the Melbourne nona-
genarian, is not a teetotaller.
r Victor J. Daley is at work on a novel,
plot new, clever, and thrilling.
A’Beckett, M.P., adds another to the bald-
lieaib of the N.S.W. Assembly.
Dibbs has come back with “a feather in his
oa p”_a Prince of Wales’feather.
Sir Edwin Arnold, the alleged poet, has a
brother practising medicine in Victoria.
One of the officiating parsons at Melbourne
general cemetery is named Tombmouth,
The leaders of Editor Windsor of the Age
, ue identifiable by their quotations from Pope.
“ Oriel,” of the Argus, consists of E. T.
pricker, Jack Sandes, and “ Peter ” Symmons.
Chief Secretary Adye Douglas (Tas.) is
the only survivor of the first Tasmanian Parlia-
ment.
W. N. Willis, M.P. for Bourke, N.S.W.,
sone 15 years ago, was a Sydney newspaper
runner.
The principal street in the town of Parkes,
y.S.W., is named Ciarinda, after the first Lady
Parkes.
Ex-Rev. P. W. Niall, of unfragant Mel-
bourne memory, is now a partner in a Peruvian
butchering business.
Sir George Grey (M.L.) is the oldest living
member of the Order of the Bath (K.C.8.). He
was decorated in 1846.
There are three (Irish) brothers in Mel-
bourne —one a medical man, the second a priest,
and the third a policeman.
A £15,000 legacy was received lately by a
clean-plucked Melbourne land-boomer, but he had
to turn over every cent, to his creditors.
Madame Carandini’s maiden name was
Burgess, and she was born in England, not Van
Diemen’s Land, as is generally supposed.
Atheist Symes lectures, Sundays, in the
upstairs old premises of Melbourne Y.M.C.A.,
while a prayer-meeting goes on downstairs.
It is pretty plain that when at last Griffith
gets politically wiped out he will, in fulfilment of
his old-time threat, retire to England and practise
as a lawyer.
Stated as a fact that one of the constables
who were in the Toorak blackmailing case has
been enrollei in the N.S.W. police, and despatched
to Broken Hill.
How piteous now sounds ex-Premier
Munro’s declaration of a year or two ago : “ I
never gave my wife a shilling but she made it
eighteenpence.”
It is notorious that Queen Victoria hates
giving titles to poor men. She will be worried
out of her life by the fall of Sir Mat. Davies and
Sir Benjy Benjy.
Brokenhillionaire and bachelor Horn, M. P.
(S.A.), an accomplished Egyptologist, means,
shortly, to go and dig up buried cities in the land
of the Pharoahs.
Anthony Colling Brownless, M.D., LL.D.,
O. is the last remaining member of the
original Melbourne University Council. He dates
from 16th June, 1855.
Did you ever notice the face of the middle
figure on the shilling edition of “ Soldiers Three?”
It stands for Terence Mulvaney, bub much re-
sembles Andrew Lang,
Lord Kintore has placed in Adelaide Govt,
House hall (as a perpetual reminder of Lord
Carington), a twelve-foot alligator, with a yawn
like the funnel of a coffee-grinder.
Judge Windeyer’s (N.S.W.) “allotment
of advances for travelling expenses,” exclusive of
railway-fare (self, associate and tipstaff), for about
32 days’ circuit, is set down at £320.
Cardinal Moran, it is cabled, is likely to
be appointed to an English diocese. Many of
Patrick Francis’ clergy won’t be sorry. He keeps
’em up to the mark—makes ’em drink ginger-beer.
When the O’Sullivan (N.S.W.) first stood
for the Legislature he borrowed a dray from a
friend and went round at night to post up his own
bills. You can’t keep a manlike that out of Par-
liament.
Judge Bundey (S.A.) has often admin-
istered justice, when the weather was sultry,
without his wig and gown. Such a come-down
would nearly kill Chief Justice Way, who
worships flummery.
A recently en-handled personage now
explains in private that he took tiie title to please
a lady, whom, on his return, he ostentatiously
kissed before a big crowd. But he doesn’t kiss the
Republic any more.
J. W. Banfield, who founded the Ararat
(Vic.) Advertiser in ’57, and has owned and
edited it ever since, celebrated his golden wedding
t’other day, when he and his wife were serenaded
by the other Ararats.
Lord Charles Fitzgerald, a brother of the
Duke of Leinster, “ Ireland’s only Duke,” lives in
a small cottage in Simpson-st., East Melbourne.
He is married to a sister of Miss Athenia
Claudius, the actress.
A celebrated Australian Q.C. has refused
to take up a brief, marked “250 guineas,” and
carrying 75-gninea daily “ refreshers,” to defend
an individual whom the financial misfortunes of
others have involved in law proceedings.
Bmjy filed his schedule as “ Sir Benjamin
Benjamin, of 98 Queen-street, in the city of Mel-
bourne, and of George-street East, Melbourne,
Knight .” His trade, profession, and business
were summed up in the one word —Knight.
Mrs. Speight is a pleasant, taut, clever,
little woman, an important factor in the measure
of success which Speight has acquired in life, but
she has always believed that an English bird in
the hand is worth two in the Australian bush.
We notice somewhere a reference to
Antonio Woolier, the brave rescuer of the Dunbar
survivor. He was well-known in Melbourne, long
after, as a cheap bookmaker, but took to plunging,
and, some say, to billiard-marking, in Sydney.
Armadale, Melb., has a fine, new Metho-
dist church, with two beautiful, gilt - lettered
memorial stones, staring out, and laid in January,
1891. One bears the name of Hon. Sir M. H.
Da vies, and the other that of Hon. James Munro.
One of the persons who has consented to
swamp Broken Hill with “blacklegs” is an ex-
navvy accustomed to handling Chinamen, and has
the reputation of being able to swear fluently for
half-an-hour on end without using the same oath
twice.
Millionaire Tyson once brought an abori-
ginal drover to Humebush. It was the darkey’s
first trip to Sydney, and he was asked how he
liked the place. “Oh, alright; but boss won’t
give it tickpens to get my plurry photograp
took!”
The jovial Dr. Machattie, of Bathurst,
used to relate how one day he met an Irishman,
the husband of a patient whom he was on his way
to visit. “ How is your wife to-day, Pat ? ” asked
the doctor. “ She’s dead, thank you, sir,” replied
Patrick.
Sir B. Benjamin’s woes began with a
legacy of £60,000, left him on his father’s death,
eight years ago. This burnt in his pocket, and
greased the launch of the Imperial Bank off the
stocks. The old man made it in Collins-street as
an importer.
W. H. Suttor, M.L.C., in a Bathurst
paper, gives some interesting particulars respect-
ing Margaret Catchpole, and winds upinaP.S.
that “ Margaret left no descendants in the colony.”
That assurance ought to satisfy some persons now
in the purple.
A certain M.L.C., of 8. A., when in the
local Assembly, was nut always a teetotaller.
Once, when full of the spirit, he was addressing
the House and cried; “I stand here, Mister
.Speaker ” “ With much difficulty,” chipped
in Kingston, Q.C.
About the big-
gest drunk in any
Australian legisla-
ture is an ex-par-
son. He resigned
religion for poli-
tics, but political
associations have
killed him.
And so “ Mr,
C. Bennett ” has
bought for £33, at
a sheriff’s sale in
Sydney, a colossal
picture, “On the
Grand Canal at
Venice,” by “Tur-
ner.” Confiding
man ! Turners
have evidently
grown cheap since
Republican Dibbs
turned into a
K.C.M.G.
The sternly
Puritanical wife
of a small N.S.W.
politician with a
rather big Parlia-
mentary billet lets
peopleunderstand
that she keeps him
up to his democra■
tic duty and is his
source of inspira-
tion. This is how
she gives him
away : “ Says I to
, handing him
a copy of the
—— bill, * take
that tyrannical at-
tempt to interfere
with the people’s
rights and don’t
you dare to come
to bed till you’ve
t horoughl y
studied it,’ says
I.”
Thus “Melbournian” : “I heard Sir M. H.
Davies preach once. It was 10 years ago, at a
little Prahran conventicle, on the cleansing of
Naaman the leper. He was strictly orthodox—
they all are. Please don’t talk about Jonah to
Davies—you hurts my Pheelinx.”
Apropos the appearance of Premier Bibbs’
portrait in Illustrated London News, perhaps
the first native Australian thus distinguished by
the newspaper named was John Thomas Smith,
seven times Mayor of Melbourne, who, 35 years
ago, went home for a title and—didn’t get it.
Keir Hardie, the Labour-member who
entered the House of Commons collarless and
wearing flannel trousers and a tweed cap, lias been
christened by Punch, “ Don’t-Keir Hardie,”
which will probably stick to him even better than
the Mr. “ Queer ” Hardie of a legislative wag.
Judge Boucaut (S.A.), now in England on
a holiday, is supposed to be “close” with his
money, but no one was prepared for his open
admission in one of his S.A. Advertiser letters
that he had on one occasion made a meal at a cost
of sevenpence! But there it is in black and white.
It is interesting to learn, from the English
society papers, that the Queen “ has desired
Princess May to address her in conversation in the
same terms as she was privileged to do during her
short betrothal to the Duke of Clarence.” The
question is now —how did May address her on
the aforesaid occasion ?
Three years ago Sir B. Benjamin, of Mel-
bourne, could lay hands on 100.000 sovereigns, all
his own. So says one of the papers, and why are
men not satisfied? You think of the sailor
allowed three unbounded wishes, by the good
fairy, and all he could think of was unbounded
grog—unbounded baccy—more baccy.
The editor of the Rockhampton (Q.)
newspaper which the other day advised
Central Bananalanders to make themselves
heard “by foul means, and God help the
right” (all because some lightship or other was
being shifted by the Brisbane tyranny) is a
parson. In the name of the prophet, thistles!
• Baron Hiibner is copiously obituarised tn
the latest German papers. He visited Sydney
and Melbourne, and wrote of them in his well-
known “Travels.” After making a fuss about
his abilities raising him from a humble origin to
be an eminent diplomatist, London Spectator
hints that he was a natural son of Metternich.
Sir Henry Parkes, with a Pecksniffian air,
asked pardon of N.S.W. Assembly for even
mentioning the name of Mr. Black, M.P., in the
course of his speech on the want of confidence
motion. That was, no doubt, on account of the
sense of moral superiority he feels in view of his
invariable tenderness and fidelity to the first Lady
Parkes.
The defendants in the Queensland Invest-
ment cases are four big, fat men who attend day
after day and settle down to watch the proceed-
ings in a bleary, stolid kind of way—except
MTlwraith, who fumbles and fidgets and writes
and may be committed for contempt yet if he
doesn’t mind ! His contempt for the whole busi-
ness is undisguised.
The other night, in N.S.W. Assembly,
Attorney-General Barton said that there was “no
one in the country who would shrink with more
abhorrence from entering on a prosecution than
Mr Coffey ” —Crown-Prosecutor of the Broken
Hill miners. All the same, Mr. Coffey’s Bar
reputation is that of a sportsman who uses both
barrels every time and doesn’t care to see dead
birds fall out of bounds.
“J.M.D.,” in the Argus, professes to
have come across a London man who makes a
comfortable living by composing Lady Aberdeen’s
speeches. The same doubtful authority states
that Lord Rosebery, since his wife’s death, is sub-
ject to fits of morbid depression which last for
days together. But Rosebery’s lack-lustre eye
and singularly “ heavy ” expression of countenance
always denoted a tendency to melancholia.
Attorney-General Barton (N.S.W.): “I
have not been in bed three hours a night for 10
weeks, and I believe I do as much work in 24
hours as any ordinary men I meet outside the
Ministry.” Fortunately for himself Mr. Barton
has the Napoleonic gift of being able to sleep at
will for any time he chooses, at any time he
pleases, and, like a giant refreshed, go right ahead
with work. That’s where the fat man comes in.
The last act in Stanley’s burlesque candi-
dature for Lambeth was at the declaration of the
poll, when he and Mrs, Stanley attended, the
latter carrying a big bouquet “to present to the
new member,” and the former looking calm but
OFF THE CHAIN.
N EW CHUM: (to unemployed who is scrutinising his turned-up pants, etc.) :
“Well, what are you looking at?”
UNEMPLOYED : “Dunno—was just wondering what it was.”
unspeakably bored. Presently the figures were
announced. Mrs. Stanley stood for one moment
the image of a petrified Conservative; then she
dissolved into tears, and Stanley lugged her and
the bouquet into a cab, and the pair fled from the
scene.
Mr. Joseph Barling, N.S.W. Secretary
for Public Works, is not only one of the ablest,
but also one of the most dignified men in the
Australian Civil Service, and lie struck a fearful
snag on first officially encountering the late James
Fletcher, whose habit it was to call everyone by
his Christian name, and who, ten minutes after
his accession to office as Minister of Works, began
to call Mr. Barling “ Joe.” Fletcher, by the way,
had to be strongly cautioned by his Ministerial
colleagues against slapping Governor Carington’s
back and calling him “Bob, my boy.”
Some time ago, writes a Loudon man to The
Bulletin, you asked “who is Mr. Fairie?” the
gentleman who is said to have made a cool million
or so out of Broken Hill. Mr. Fairie is the nom
de course of a Mr. Cox, who was a jackeroo or a
visitor to some station near Broken Hill. The
story current is that ho played a game of euchre
with the manager of the station to settle whether
he should give .£l2O or ,£l5O for part of a share
(or the whole of one) in the big mine, which was
then in its infancy. He won. The story of a
million is an exaggeration, but I believe he made
close on half-a-million out of his share.
Six mouths ago, Constable Larsen (New-
castle, N.S.W.) fell from a rapidly-moving coal-
train, between it and the station-platform. He
was brought, apparently lifeless, to the hospital,
where it. was found that his chest was- stove in,
four ribs and a leg broken, and his skull fractured.
At first no attempt was made to dress his in-
juries in the usual way, as the medicos con-
fidently stated that he could not live another half-
hour. He was simply made as comfortable as
possible under the circumstances, and left to die.
At the end of an hour the nurse reported him still
breathing, and then his injuries were dressed.
Next day he was alive and conscious. The sur-
geons told him to expect the worst, but received
the grim reply that he was not dead yet. When,
in defiance of their expressed opinion, he persisted
in not dying, he was informed that he would
always be a cripple, and unfit for work of any
kind. He stoically replied, “That’s all right.”
He is now on active duty in the force, and last
week, on a lone hand, succeeded in arresting a
burly brawler, who had long boasted that no single
“cop” had ever “ lumbered ” him.
T. H. Guenett, the Melbourne musician,
relates how one day he was riding round the
suburbs on horseback, with his wife, when Mrs.
Guenett’s horse shied and threw her. The lady
lay upon the road, at South Yarra, insensible, and
for some time no means of conveyance could be
obtained to remove her home. At length a
hearse, returning from a funeral, hove in sight,
and into this Mrs. Guenett was lifted. Mr. G.
says that he has made diligent inquiry and
believes that this is the only instance on record of
an undertaker being used in opposition to the
crape-and-weeper interest.
The romance of a life, remarks an English
correspondent, has just been completed by the
Duke of Devonshire’s marriage to his first and
only love, the Dowager Duchess of Manchester,
for whom he has so long waited. He fell madly
in love with the young Countess von Alten, when
just out of his teens, but though the lady was
fond of him she was ambitious, and preferred au
existing Duke to a prospective one, and so she,
espoused His Grace of Manchester—-who visited
Australia at least a couple of times. It is not
often the case that a woman has been the wife of
two dukes, the mother of another, the mother of a
duchess, and the grand-mother of a fourth duke.
One of the many curiosities of Noumea, at
present, is a celebrated Parisian medico, who,
jealous of a brother professional, sent him a hamper
of poisoned game. This resulted in a life-banish-
ment to New Caledonia. He has been set free
owing to good conduct, after having done about
eight years. Another liber e whom you will meet
every day in your walks, at Noumea, was con-
demned to death for having murdered his mistress,
whose heart he took out, cooked and ate. Re-
prieved on a plea of temporary insanity, but con-
demned for life, his penalty was reduced to ten
years for good conduct and owing to influence,
his family being amongst the wealthiest of France.
Writes a London correspondent;—
Poor “ Uncle Kira ” (the Duke of Manchester—he was
with you in Australia a few months ago) has gone to his
long home, leaving many a worse man behind him. He
had his faults, some of them big ones, but they were
mostly on the surface. At heart he was one of the most
generous fellow’s who ever breathed. He was pluck to
the backbone, and never deserted a “pal,” no matte!
what the trouble. The devotion of his wife to him in his
last days was most touching—all the more because he had
for a long time neglected her sadly, almost deserting her
society for that of Bessie Bellwood -a crime which a
woman rarely forgives. But the old affection which
prompted her when she hursed him through a severe
illness in America revived, and she watched at the side of
bis death-bed as if nothing had occurred to mar the
happiness of their married life.
‘ ‘ The class of woman which can only
suffer the loss of its jewellery,” writes a London
paper.
On dit that a certain sura of money, now
the object of public attention, had to be paid away
to satisfy creditors.
On the Johnstone River, N.Q., several
persons have been suddenly and mysteriously
stricken blind. The local doctor attributes it to
sun-glare.
A Frenchman, M. Henrion, has written a
book to prove that Adam was 123 ft. 9in. high, and
Eve 118 ft. No wonder the Fall created a good
deal of excitement.
There are 47 prisoners in Kansas (U.S.)
penitentiary under sentence of death, but for 12
years the Governor of the State has refused to fix
a date for execution.
Verdict recently returned by an intelligent
British jury : “We find that the child was suffo-
cated, but there is no evidence to show whether
the suffocation was before or after death.”
A Remedy for the Depression.
It is claimed on behalf of
Warner’s Safe Cure
that it is a Medicine adapted to the present time
of severe depression, when the worry and anxiety
contingent oil daily life are calculated to act pre-
judicially upon the vital organs of the human
system, and produce ailments needing prompt
treatment. It is a remedy not only safe but sure,
and an absolute specific for diseases of the liver
and kidneys. Numerous inventions for the cure
of these complaints have been contrived of late,
but none of them have proved to be possessed of
sufficient merit to deprive Warner’s Safe Cure of
the proud portion it occupies as the most valuable
and successful medical discovery of the age. The
proof of this is to be found in the tens of thousands
of cures it has effected in both hemispheres of the
world, as well as in the Australasian colonies.
The only bar to its general use appears to lie in
the conventional objection that it is a proprietary
article, but even this barrier seems to be breaking
down, as many physicians of eminence in the
profession now admit its intrinsic worth, even to
the extent of prescribing it in their practice, par-
ticularly in cases of Bright’s disease.
The following narrative illustrates the ex-
traordinary power of the medicine in ah extreme
case :
Pleasant Yale, Bacchus Marsh, 17th March,
1892.
About four years ago I was taken seriously ill,
and sent for the doctor, who treated me for several
weeks. He then made an analysis of my urine,
from which he inferred that I was suffering from
Bright’s disease of the kidneys. Dropsy super-
vened, accompanied by terrible pains about my
body, and I could neither rest nor sleep. I
became so weak and reduced as to be unable to
walk across the room without assistance. At this
critical stage the doctor ceased his attendance, for
the reason, as he said, that he was unable to do
anything more for ms. Persuaded by a friend, I
then commenced the use of Warner’s Safe Cure
and Warner’s Safe Pills. After taking a few
bottles of Safe Cure, I felt much better, and could
both eat and sleep. Continuing the medicine, I
rapidly regained ray strength and flesh, and
became able to do light work on the farm, and to
this day continue to do so with increasing ease
and comfort. Being fully convinced that your
medicines have saved iny-life, I.would strongly
advise all persons suffering from the same com-
plaint to lose no time in having recourse to
Warner’s Safe Cure and Safe Pills, as a certain
and speedy means of recovering their health. —
T. A. Anderson, Farmer.


i fjfj hto l h s Oa te i rf I* OT>
ii
A O s I \f& f/<? C pnl/ ’Hj % 4ff <vi=f
V r
Ay* O W/ec/& e. \6/ \v'!s
fa aS C Q'Oa Vt,A&/y //»ky |\ /
y/ae re. t /kf n 'J y
/ h/of" rf<3 no m / 79i£}£ Ai/n /c.
y^ oe - P "
CJA f/l&yx 3/7/y Pons r^ox
Jl/.erv
A Oio as-, c/ <a &?0. /o
&
=/ //< o
/z-/°&eJ'sC.'S. O Jz ~<*/&& <on ''(*, <? «r c/r/n/L )
f -r> /- / j ~ y^e./voff)
/ *2 / u ° 7 a Co <y/a j V / y
mmm *
y\o/yfna> I I I
/ <S> 11
"1 I (r&p'in/-J
( fQ<sojd/e hoc/ /s>Oy
/° P fhere /*>€ ,rs •3.'“ <2. wag
* W/dV,
£ A a&rnai 6/)<2/s* /?-/!sn^' )
ey err*
JjBCiTia^r
f ypy jatj// O(JT amt'.
' : ; '-= .
Wfafe Se £cac/ cf A /n /e*/^
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


f
ff /
It is asserted that the clothes fon by
the late Duke ol Clarence and Avondale
•were made by sweaters id their own
homes. Among the clothes made in this
manner were 18 pairs of trousers, some of
which were completed just before the'
Prince's dtoth. In the house in which the"
trousers were made several people were
suffering from infiuenzi, and it is sug-
gested that the In lection was thus con-
veyed to the Prince
A proposal has been made to Mr. Suttor, and which
he is inclined to favourably consider, that the ship Vernon
should be devoted to the object of a boys’ reformatory, as
distinct from an industrial school.
It will be a good way to Had out whether or not a
boy is born to be hanged. Subtle joke this 1
Mr. Suttor, considering the very responsible position
held by a teacher, has decided that in the future in any
case where it is proved that such officer is guilty of exces-
sive indulgence in drink, ho must be rempved from the
A teacher may get moderately drunk ana keep
his place.
Says a daily paper; “ It is believed that
Dr. Renwick has received a hint that the
matter of his expected knighthood had better
no- be pressed at present.”
REMOVING THE CAUSE.
CotJKTP.Y Doctor : “ I have just called to say good-bye, as
I am going to Sydney to attend the Medical
Congress and may. not see you again.
PATIENT (who has been “given up"): “Then, thank
Heaven, there is hope for me yet! ”
A HINT TO THE OTHER-
WISE.
It is dangerous and uncomfortable to
Sit on the rail.
Mb. LaWjtobdse (fo Broken Hill
Striker) : “ Why don't you seek redress
for your grievances in tie ballot-box f’
The Under Doo : “ Well because
my ‘grievances' have too many allot*
men t-rotes 1”
A YOUNG MAN FROM THE COUNTRY.
“ We learn that with the object of filling the vacancies
in Sydney caused by the transference of police to Broken
Hill the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Fosbery, is bring*
ing m a number of men from the country districts."
VARIOUS THINGS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
Pthe coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldtields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note.— These allotments are in selected positions
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
309 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office :
ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BEOSCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complain(s it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. 'iTW For external use try Colkmask and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S. W
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, <£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
The Euealypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Sweet as honey. Mild as milk. G N U N
Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr-
J. I. Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and King
streets. lie is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum#
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address -Mr. J- “
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sydney Arcade, George ana
King streets.*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Wonderful value—four G N U N Darlings. Is#
Society
In the course of his oration to the N.S.W.
Railway Commissioners’ demonstration audience,
the other day, at Sydney Centennial Hall, Hon.
S. A. Joseph, M.L.0., the great Mokanna of
Sydney Chamber of Commerce, paused and asked
his audience: “Now, gentlemen, what is com-
merce?” Then a low, deep, cruel, hollow voice
from out the crowd said, “Yell, it is shent per
silent.” That broke up the show. This is the
sort of thing you never see reported in any right-
thinking paper.
** , #
The Daughters of the Court held a meeting
in Melbourne last week, with Lady Hopetoun in
the chair. Each daughter received, from the
Countess’s own fair hands, her insignia of office as
a dame, scribe, chancellor, chatelaine, or com-
panion of the order. Also somebody read an
address explaining that the object of this tony
gathering was “ to form an order of women who
shall undertake to speak ill of none, and endeavour
to do at least one helpful deed every day.”
Refreshments, flowers, music, pictures, &c , had
been laid on upon a small scale by different lots of
daughters appointed to look after these matters,
and the order discussed its high purpose with a
decent appearance of interest until Lady H.
gatherei up her skirts to go. Tl-en all the
D aughters of the Court (who must not be con-
founded with the Girls of the Alley) dispersed and
began to speak well of everybody. It didn't last,
however. Before nightfall most of the married
“dames ” had called their husbands brutes, whilst
the young spinster “ companions ” were freely ex-
pressing opinions about the disgusting manner in
which their best-looking bosom friends are always
carrying on.
* * *
It already seems pretty plain that the bench
of Judges now hearing the appeal against Chief
Justice Lilley’s decision in the Queensland
mortgage cases will decide against “ the old
man. ”
* # *
One of the refreshing sights of Sydney at
the present time is a lady member of tlie Gaiety
Co. whose headgear is a man’s black slouch hat.
Another is a lady, obviously from ’Ome, who is
squired by a brindled bull-pup with a broad,
bright-coloured neck-ribbon to match his fair
owners costume, and a big bunch of flowers at
his throat. Likewise, with the lady’s hand-bag
in his month.
* # #
Leading members of the Employers’ Union
fed the last lot of N.S. Wales police who passed
through Adelaide, and G. S. Fowler, whom
Labour-Member M’Pherson thrashed so badly at
East Adelaide, led the cheers as the train steamed
off to Broken Hill.
• * »
The Works C mmittee of South Brisbane
Municipal Council, whose funds furnished that
big guzzle at which Griffith and “ Vhy, labeer ish
a commoditee ” Unmack got rid of their anti-
labour venom, have resigned because their recom-
mendation to reduce the pick and-shovel men to
4s. a day was amended in favour of ss. a day.
Twenty-four shillings a week, and wet days out of
that —Great Heavens !
* * *
Which information, by a strange coin-
cidence, comes to hand in the very next envelope
after that which contains the following
Editor Bulletin.— How nauseous are the hypocritical
panegyrics of the daily press upon the death-bed
“charity” of that greedy hunks, my deceased “master !”
He was hated like poison, the broad-clothed old vampire,
by every man, woman and child who was ever under the
direful necessity of working for him. People only entered
his service when hungry, and no man ever left it without
a curse on lus lips. He paid me 245. weekly for a
minimum of 64 hours’ labour—yes, he gave me and others
4s. a day, each, because he could not readily get muscular
men with fair brains for £l. While raking in money by
the hilly-full {vide his will) he paid to scores of girls, out
of whose toil he, to my knowledge, profited enormously,
wages which were bounded on the North by starvation,
and on the South by prostitution. It is to this man, who
now leaves so much money to churches, that 1 (with many
another) owe the horror of my life during three years
past—three years during which, so help me God, I never
spent 2d. in anything which was not absolutely necessary
to the existence of my wife, now, fortunately, dead, and
her two children still, udfc>rtunately, alive, —C. Al. C.
It amuses us to see people of this order leave
propitiatory offerings to God—as if God could be
squared like a dishonest member of Parliament.
* # #
The acme of cheek is reached by the
Sydney man who, a year after giving his creditors
ss. in the £, procures the insertion in the
“ society ” columns of the press of nauseous para-
graphs trumpeting forth the glory of his juvenile
parties.
* * *
They are talking in New Caledonia about
the touchiness of H.B.M.’s local Consul, Col. de
Ooetlogon (late of Samoa), as displayed at a lun-
cheon recently given on board the steamer Rock-
ton. The Consul found the company rather
mixed : opposite him sat a cattle-dealer, alongside
him a pig-merchant, and the places of honour were
occupied by the President du Conseil-General, a
miner, and the Mayor of Noumea, an ex-timber
merchant. Under the circumstances, the Consul
deemed it due to his official position that he
should at once leave the table.
# * *
“How have you lived since Saturday?”
asked a lawyer of a lady witness, in Melbourne
District Court, last week. She drew off her glove,
showed her bare hand, and answered, “By parting
with my wedding-ring.”
* * m
Barrister Lilley (sou of the Chief Justice)
having explained to the Windeyer-Cooper-Ohubb
Full Court (Brisbane, Q.) the exact nature of the
reservations of judicial prerogative made by his
pa, Chief Justice Lilley, in the big land-mortgage
suit, opposing counsel Byrnes snapped in with —
“I don’t know how my friend knows all this; I
can’t get to know it.”
# # •
The Sydney Corporation authorities on
the day of the anticipated gathering last week,
COMPARING NOTES.
SIR M. H. DAVIES: “Cheer up—I have lost nearly all I
had, and look at me. ”
RUINED SHAREHOLDER : “ I have lost all I had, and look
at me.”
which was to end in an incarnadine fight outside
Parliament Houses, carefully “ picked up ” the
macadamised road around the meeting-place at
Queen Victoria’s statue, and thus placed at the
disposal of the crowd a splendid supply of blue-
metal. The joke was spoilt, however, by the
absence of a row. Which reminds us of a story
told of the good old days of Burrowa, N.S.W., in
the reign of King Nagle Ryan. Just before a
race-meeting, the new-ohum groom at one of the
hotels, asked the “boss” if he might “borry” the
horse and dray for an hour. >“For what?”
“ Whoy, to get a load o’ shtones for the race-
course ; the devil a shtone is there,” The stones
were brought, but never used, they are there
now.
# * *
The engagement was lately announced of
Dr. Horatio Percy Martell (M. 8., Melb., 1889)
and Dr. Margaret Whyte (M. 8., Melb., 1891),
both of the Women’s Hospital, Melbourne. It is
said on good authority that when Dr. Whyte
changes her name to Dr. Martell she will relinquish
practice.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos female meds. at
Melbourne Hospital. During the last ten years or
so I have had excellent opportunities for observing
the characteristics of this yenus, which I divide
into three species. (1) The medical-mission girl :
generally amende in appearance; skin, greenish-
yellow to yellowish-white; hair, thin, and light-
brown to colourless ; mostly undersized ; taste in
dress, extremely bad; prevailing characteristics,
seriousness amounting almost to melancholia, a,nd
a tendency to religious monomania; always poring
over text-books; carries bones in her pocket ;
either gets “ ploughed ” from funk and nervous-
ness, or dies of brain - softening. (2) The
medical masherette: generally has white skin
and dark hair; size, medium ; taste in
dress, fair to good ; seeks the haunts of men
and is therefore generally camped in library or
parading grounds in cap and gown (one specimen
of this species, who has a rather neat ankle, often
occupies two chairs in the library at once, sitting
on one, with feet on the other); mostly gets
ploughed in second year at least three times, then
retires from study (?), marries an invertebrate
man, and henpecks him badly. (3) Sensible girl:
looks, pleasant to comely, and figure to match ;
works hard, but in a business-like way, not
neglecting tlie enjoyments of life ; passes regularly
with fair honours; gets degree and marries a
doctor, whom she does not honpeck.— Steele
Grey.
And now, will some lady med. kindly
classify the male sawboneses ?
J * * *
The Tories (the Disraelites) have their
party-flower, the primrose, but the British Liberals
have long been puzzled what flower to select as a
Gladstonian emblem. In view of the G.O.M.’s
latest adventure, a Bulletin correspondent sug-
gests thecowslip. [Copyright joke, which, printed
in the first number of any London paper, would
start it on the road to immortality.]
* * *
“ Come unto me all ye that labour and are
heavy laden ” is the title of the new picture in
Melbourne National Gallery. Professor Her-
komer, acting for the trustees, bought this unat-
tractive work from one of Ids own pupils, and the
title seems to meet the case exactly. Having
laboured and got a decidedly heavy picture on his
hands, the pupil went unto his master and sold it
for .£250. Meanwhile, a number of Victorian
artists would be glad to sell their souls for that
amount.
# * *
Melbourne’s new weekly, the Criterion,
is run by ex-“ Bohemians.” We won’t judge it by
the first number, which “ain’t ifo criterion.”
John Long, of Melbourne,
puts not his trust in evening
newspapers any longer. They
had warned the public to beware
of strangers who stick them up
in the street after dark and ask
to be obliged with a light. John
Long accepted this admonition
without reserve, so when John
Taylor asked him for the loan
of a lucifer match, the other
Saturday night, he let out with
his left. Wherefore Taylor
fetched a policeman, and Long
was ultimately let down gently
with one shilling and costs :
Comment by a hall-keeper
on Professor Marshall Hall’s
musically - learned audiences :
“ No, sir, they don’t make no
noise. They never claps or
stamps; but just sits quiet an’
solemn-like.”
It is constantly said that the wife of
a certain personage had to be “ squared ”
with an immense sum of money to prevent her
from exposing his moral character in the law-
courts. His moral character was of such urgent
importance under the circumstances that the
lady’s silence seemed cheap at any price. It is
also said that a representative Pharisee and a
giddy old pal of the culprit conducted the nego-
tiations totheirhappy issue—and that’s where some
of the money went to. But we are speaking of
things that happened long ago in a country that
isn’t marked upon the map.
# * #
Governor Hopetoun’s prize of one guinea
for a poem about “a bush burial” has brought
out 50 competitors. Truly the evil that men do is
immortal; and now even though these 50 poets
are buried in a cave, and trodden down with
stones, yet their 50 poems will rise up like half-a-
hundred goblins and refuse to be laid. Consider
the bard in all his horror. Fifty poems—32 of
them about Long Bill, and the other 18 about
Jim; 50 hunks of woe and salt-bush, with Jim
dropping a silent tear over Bill when Bill happens
to be the corpse, and the rest of the time with Bill
weeping sadly over Jim ! Fifty great, desolate,
dusty plains, with the red sun sinking like an
enraged cheese in the brassy west, and 50 blighted
trees in the foreground, and a weary, draggled
crow sitting thereon and croaking out a mournful
measure like the sound of a widow’s bones being
beaten against an empty bank-safe ! Fifty twi-
lights descending with velvet footsteps over the
thi rs‘ y land like theshadowof afat man seen through
a gaol door, and through each one a funeral
coming, and the wind wheezing dismally amid
the trees as i t comes, and the solitary mourner drag-
ging his copious hoofs behind. And, last of all,
the dingo, the forlorn, hoarse, God-forgott P „
dingo, sitting regretfully on his tail above tk
sepulchre when all is over; and the poster; ?
wherein it is mentioned that the rain patters whi
an eerie voice of slush upon that tomb i n th .
wet season, and that at other times the dry ] ea v
rustle there with a mournful note like neivsinn
clippings blowing through a skull. And all the!!
things are raked up 50 times more for one K m, df
wherefore Governor Hopetoun had better sm on I
and get himself measured for a great curse ■ u ,,l
have the brand of Cain imprinted upon his brow
said mark to be registered with the inspector of
stock brands upon payment of the customary f,<.
in order to prevent imposition.
* * #
“The basis and foundation of Society”
says Premier Dibbs, ‘‘ is order. ” Yes-the Order
of Michael and George. uer
* » #
Havens wood (N.Q.), with a surrounding
district containing a population of some 2000 or so
has only had, during several years, one death
from natural causes, that of a patriarch aged 75
years. Its hospital, which costs ,£4O a month to
keep going, has, for the last few months, varied in
its roll-call of patients from one to two.
* # #
A parson has been elected a member of a
West Queensland racing club. Another cleric
entered one of his horses for that club’s
meeting : _
When Gabriel sounds his warning-note
What odds St. Peter runs a “ tote ” ?
* * #
Judge Murray’s strictures re a Bega
(N.S.W.) jury, reminds The Bulletin of a Syd-
ney incident which has hitherto escaped press
notice. When De Wayne was being tried for
having administered medicines to achieve mal-
practice, the jury, after hearing the Crown
evidence, announced that it didn’t want to hear
anything further, as its mind was made up and
nothing could shake the conclusion at which it had
arrived. The lawyers for the defence were
naturally jubilant, as the only inference anybody
outside the jury could fairly draw was that an
acquittal had been decided upon. However, the
defence went on, and—“ Guilty, your Honor”
was the verdict. His Honor carefully concealed
his astonishment under a sentence of ten years.
* * *
Those interesting persons who form the
Tasmanian Co-operative Timber Co., and who
came from England to colonise King’s Island, are
pining in their solitude, and want the Tasmanian
Government to give them a slice of the mainland
to work on. Hitherto their “work” has
principally consisted of the “ manly games of old
England ” —so ’tis said.
« # #
Saved shellback (at the wreck of the barque
New field, when the body of Captain Scott was
washed ashore): “The hulk of the (call-grampus)
skipper ! Well, his old deadlights ! he'll
never stop no one’s grog no more !”
# # •
Quiz hears of an Adelaide (S.A.) money-
lender who advanced a man =£9 upon a gold watch.
Thu pawner paid instalments with more or less
irregularity for two years, when he totted things
uo,_and found that he had paid Shylock a total of
.£75, and still owed the principal,
* * w
It requires less courage to rush into debt
than to crawl out again, backwards.
* * *
The Australian world thinks nothing of
its “greatest” men, because it knows so much
about ’em.
*. * *
Bridegroom (to the bride’s brother, as
the chief man at the wedding dejeuner) : “ I 4111
sorry that I must deprive you of a dear sister,
and I suppose you are sorry, too?” Candid
Brother : “I’m not sorry for my sister; I’m sorry
for you.”
* # *
A burglar recently rifled a parsonage of
.£4l in gold and a MS. sermon on “ Sell all thou
hast and give to the poor.” The burglar left
behind him a memo.—“ You needn’t sell, old
man; the poor has collared it.”
* * #
The private secretary of an Australian
Governor was recently compelled to obtain a
believable receipt for cab-hire before the Auditor-
General would consent to certify to the item of
expenditure as “regular.” So says a Sydney
Sunday paper, which seems to be in total ignor-
ance of how the petty-cash expenditure of vice-
regal establishments is manipulated. :
#* • j
The society-reporting game is being played
pretty low down—now that accounts of parties
given by bailiffs are inflicted upon us by the daily
papers. 1
# # #
A Melbourne woman was divorced from her
husband last week at his instance. She stated to
the Judge that she “ only lived with him for two
months, and left him because she could not under-
stand his nature. She had no fault to find with
him.” “ Strangers yet! ”
# # *
A West Australian now in Sydney says
that Deeming was the best advertisement that
province ever had.
* * #
Now that that well-advertised cure is an
“open” secret the society girls, who were so
curious about it, and asked their male admirers
what it was, are sorry they spoke.
*
Oh, these actors ! Of course Bentley and
Co. turned up to hear their friend and patron Rev.
Marshall, on Sunday—preternaturally solemn,
clean-shaved gents, the observed of all observers.
The whisper goes round, while the Thespian rubs
his rasped chin, and his eye is like the poet’s, in a
fine frenzy rolling, from earth to heaven’, or the
spandrils of the kurrruk.
A PAINFUL DISCLOSURE.
Dame Rumour, the jade, is addicted to “skite,”
And given to telling of fibs;
We fo.i ~_y ...ncvea that the queen had to write
An aut igntp'i letter, in language polite,
Before she could catch him and make him a knight—
A knight of Republican Dibbs.
We swallowed the story, and said, “ He is ‘ white
At taking a title lie jibs—
He hasn’t surrendered without a good fight,
Yet, being but human, be took it despite
His manly resolve that they'd ne’er make a knight—
A knight of Republican Dibbs.”
That autograph letter was mythical quite,
A fiction of newspaper squibs ;
The Queen never came from her Throne to indite
With a gold-headed pen such a gracious invite,
She didn’t say “ George, will you please he a knight,
Dear, ducky Republican Dibbs ! ”
A pal of tlie Prince’s just made it all right,
He tickled George under the ribs.
Who rushed at tlie bait and proceeded to bite.
And that was the method, so commonplace, trite,
By which tlie “ Crown ” managed to make him a knight
A knight of Republican Dibbs.
Said Taylor to Long
(Who vyas sturdy and strong)—
“ Can you give me a light ?”
To which question polite
Mr. Long made reply
With a smack in the eye.
’Twas a hot ’un to catch—
Mr. T. found his match.
Cried he— “ What a wipe
To put into my pipe,
And endeavour to smoke !
This is more than a joke—
To bash and to batter
A party polite
When he asks for a light
Is not a light matter.”
So Taylor, poor squealer,
Appealed to a “ peeler,”
Who taught Mr. Long
That his conduct was wrong.
The name of the fault
Was “unlawful assault,”
And Long, though unwilling,
Paid costs and a shilling.
And now, when at night
He is asked for a light,
He thinks of the docks
And don’t strike on the box.
Moral:
If a stranger you “ job ”
Whose appearance seems robby,
You'll get fined a “bob”
Should the man find a “ bobby.”


EYESIGHT PEE SERVED.
“ SPECTACLES : tliclr Use, when Required,
and liow t« Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice lo all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
4G3. 471 & 587. GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney
J. Lichtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., has taken over the above old
established first-class hotel. Special rates for commercia
travellers and families.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
For Is. 3d. will be posted from The Bul-
letin Office, Sydney, to any Australasian address
a copy of The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” illustrated by Hop. and Phil. May ; or,
a copy of “ Tales of the Convict System,”by “Price
Waning.” The cheaper edition of “A Golden
Shanty ”is now out of print; a cloth-bound copy
will be mailed to any Australian address for 2s.
When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Wou'is’s Schnapps.
When are Spectacles Requited ?
When the eyes water or become so much fatigued by
short exercise as to be obliged to be frequently closed or
relieved by viewing different objects.
When objects cannot be seen without removing them
to an increased distance.
When the letters of a book appear to blend with one
another.
When more light is necessary than was formerly, as
When the candle is placed between the eye and the
book;
When much difficulty is found in threading a needle ;
When the eyes appear as if they had a mist before
them;
When black specks seem floating in the sight.
When any of the above indications arise, all affectation
should bo laid aside, responsible and skilful opticians con
suited, and a pair of preservers purchased.
FEOST & SHIPHAM
(Practical Spectacle Makers),
462* 471 AND 557 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY,
Auk the People.
Slab from ft Melbourne topical ditty re th e
fiite of flic missing mace
Cabled all the way from London to this
long-suffering country :
1 * A ninning heir to the earldom of Haddington, is
Z "be married to Miss Salting.
Who is tho Earl of Haddington-and who is Mi’s
Salting, and what does Binning do beside being
an heir i # *
How does the Victorian democracy explain
the .smallness of their contributions to the miners
f Broken Hill ? Newcastle leads the way with
mono out of the £12,000 sent to the miners.
a a sent nearly £BOO. A large proportion of the
money was received from bush unions.
* * *
gome London “society” folk lately
fashioned this advt. out of the tardy death of a
16 —On 29th ult., at 68 Camberwell New-road,
q K James Pearce Budden, aged 76 years. His first
ill fp’idled 1853) was the widow of John Kirby Picard,
1 0 f the Royal Horse Guards. She was the
whter of Samuel Ilanfray, Esq., of Cowarth, near
Windsor, sister of Mrs. Alderman Thompson, aunt of
the Marchioness of Headfort and the present Lord
Bective, and cousin to the first Lord Tredegar.
Indeed 1 What a scrumptious feast she must have
been for the worms of 39 long years ago! It
:„ht be added that she is now the morganatic
wife of the Archangel Mysticus, and has the right
of private entree at the Court of High Seraph
Chortleharp. # *
It is plain that should the A.J.C. com-
miH-pfi irive aratis the use of Randwick course for
dry’s racing for the benefit of Mr. A. E. Wicks,
the distinguished amateur rider who recently lost
leg through a fall, the permission will be most
reluctant and ungracious. Mr. Wicks, unfor-
tunately, is not a membah of the Union Club, the
imperkm in imperio which outs and dries all
A.J.C. questions.
* * *
Raven, the Collingwood undertaker and
J p was on the Bench, the other day, heckling a
maii'about leaving his wife, who alleged there was
another lady concerned. Raven was not satisfied
with Benedict’s assurance that this lady had gone
u „der, and wanted further proof. “ Why,” said
the husband, “you buried her!”
# *
One of the most splendid estates in the
Melbourne environs was enwreathed by a million-
aire about his idolised wife—who succumbed to
the fascinations of the groom.
» # *
In Botany (Sydney) Council; —Alderman ;
“Was the agrayment shtamped?” Clerk: “It
was a verbal agreement.” Alderman; “Oi don’t
care a (Dibbs) whether it was verbal or not. Was
it shtamped ?”
* * *
Funeral baked meats—cremated corpses,
# * *
SOME LEGAL THOUGHTS AND MAXIMS.
(By a Sydney Shark.)
“ In the multitude of counsellors there is wis-
dom.”— Salomons, Q.C.
* * *
When briefed to appear in five cases on one day
in five different Courts, you will best and most conscien-
tiously earn your fees by going on a fishing excursion 20
miles away.
# * *
There are a good many lawrikins in the Courts.
* * *
A bankrupt is popularly regarded as unhappy.
Yet, to the philosophic bankrupt, no pleasure can be
greater than to see his estate equitably distributed among
his creditors—at their own expense.
* * *
A N.S.W. Judge is known by his Associates :
Chief Justice Darley—Associate, Mr. Darley, jun., £3OO
(with pickings).
Judge Windeyer—Associate, Mr. Windeyer, jun., £260
and do.
Judge Innes—Associate, Mr. Innes, jun., £260 and do.
Judge Stephen—Associate, Mr. Stephen, jun., £260
and do.
Note.—The stock of Owenses and Manningses seems to
have temporarily run out. This should be rectified at
once—we mean, as soon as possible. Talk about fatherly
affection!
Next!
* # *
It is a wise child that pleads before his own
father—or father-in-law.— Stephen’s (and other people’s)
commentaries.
* * »
Observe that, in some of our biggest
cemeteries, there are religious compartments for
the Diveses, but only one pauper-department for
the Lazaruses.
* * *
Not long ago, a Victorian squatter’s family
was plunged into mourning all at once, and a
Bourke-street drapery firm allowed them to send
back some fashionable goods. Amid them was a
bonnet, in which an honest milliner found a
diamond brooch, but Mrs. Squatter had dis-
charged all her servants, without “characters,”
because she missed it.
* • #
The Melbourne father who was offered, by
a Syrian, £4O for his daughter, and who haggled
vainly for £5O, over-reached himself and deserves
no sympathy. In these hard times most parents
are glad to pay somebody to remove their girls
from the premises.
* # #
The Presbytery of Melbourne, North, has
been conducting “an inquiry into the state of
religion,” and the available evidence seems to
point to the fact that true holiness is in an ex-
tremely neglected state. Several of the assembled
clergymen expressed their opinion that poverty
keeps a great many from divine worship—“ pride
will not allow them to go ill-dressed to church,
and sit beside those who have fine clothes ” :
The habitation of a blackleg, burnt clown
at Broken Hill since the outbreak of the strike —
the act of an incendiary or a Unionist, of course—
was two weeks dwindling in the Melbourne
papers from an “establishment” to a deserted
tent.
* * *
Reporter writes: “Here is something
which partly converted me to cremation. I went
to a pauper’s exhuming in the Melbourne general
cemetery, and saw three coffins in a shallow grave,
while a bottle of brandy stood on the clay to
revive the diggers.”
» • *
A Melbourne agent has 500 furnished
houses unlet.
# # #
Readers of the S.M. Herald are asked to
subscribe to the expenses of an Anglican clergy
man’s son’s wife’s accouchement.
The cable an-
nounces the arrest
in London of Miss
Smith, a gover-
ness, charged with
forging a will in
w'hich she was
bequeathed
£20,000, and the
capture of six
clerks who acted
as her accom-
plices. We should
say things were
likely to turn out
pretty badly for
Miss Smith, the
lady who has six
accomplices to
help her in one
forgery.
* #
At aW.Q. town-
ship, recently, we
are told, Mrs.
Dash was struck
on the head with
a beam, knocked
senseless, and
taken to the hos-
pital. This befell
on a Saturday.
On Sunday the
doctor passed her
as dead, and her
coffin was ordered.
Sunday night the
undertaker was at
work; and the
coffin taken hos-
pitalwards at 10
a.m. on Monday.
By this time the
old girl had re-
vived, and refused
to occupy the box,
but the under-
taker said: “The
coffin was ordered
for you, and you’ll
NO ROSE WITHOUT A THORN.
CREEPERS, THE UNDERTAKER : “You, Mr. Smallweed, will go in the first
mourning-coach with the corpse’s mother.”
NEWLY-FLEDGED WIDOWER (with a sad, sad sigh): “Alas! Must even
the pleasure of this day be spoilt!”
have to take it.” The resurrected woman re-
mained firm in her refusal, and at latest advices
was becoming strong and well.
* # *
Millionaire “Joe" Clarke’s dear friend,
the long lost Mrs. Clara Parker, has turned up
again in Melbourne and surrendered to take her
trial. According to her account, when she was
released on bail, some few months ago, she “was
induced ”togo to Albury. While there she was
drugged, and then she was rushed back to Mel-
bourne, and lodged in a North Melbourne coffee-
shop. Next morning she was removed —by the
hair, probably—to North Melbourne railway-
station, and started away to Sydney, and thence
she was violently hauled to Brisbane, and at
Brisbane she was shipped for Auckland, and
thence she was bounced away to San Francisco;
but she got out of the steamer at Apia, and came
back. All of which reads very like the story
told a few years ago by a certain young lady of
Sydney of how she was forcibly taken away in a
cab.
* # *
Judge Hood, of Victoria, is of opinion
that in nine out of every ten divorce-cases which
come before him there is collusion between the
parties. He states this fact in a hollow tone of
woe that comes right up out of the nethermost
Gehenna of his boots, and evidently regards it as
a dreadful state of things. - What The Bulletin
wants to know is—why on earth shouldn’t there
be collusion between the parties ? When there is
collusion it merely proves that they both want the
divorce, and when they both want it isn’t that the
best of all reasons why they should have it ?
* * #
Who will try the Australian Banking Co.
cases at Darlinghurst Criminal Sessions? Nob
Acting-Judge Simpson, surely.
Henceforth it will be known as the Order
of St. Michael and Sir George.
Up North there is a publican who is also
a draper. Lately a citizen died intestate and this
bill was sent to the curator: Jno.- Bushell
deceased, to J. W. Hardcase—nine drinks 4s. Gd.;
one shroud, 18s. Gd. Total, .£1 3s.
# # #
The West Australian police are so zealous
that early in September a Perth constable deemed
it his duty to “run in” his own mother as a
“ drunk.”
* # *
A woman sued a boy, in the Richmond
(Melb.) court last week, to affiliate her sixth
illegitimate'.. Dismissed.
# * «
A medical exchange declares that, as a
rule, married men live longer than bachelors.
Now, discriminate between the suicides, please.
* # *
Whomes, the squatter, is an off-hand
fellow, like Jimmy Tyson, and held a big garden-
party, where Sir Thomas Merino was the star.
Sir Thomas encountered a “Most superior man,
sir,” a well-dressed little fellow, who discoursed
eloquently on the mischief of strikes —shearing
worse than mining. “Who is that?” asked Sir
T., afterwards, of Whomes. “My daughter’s
dancing-master,” was the reply. Sir Tom looked
as if he’d swallowed a dose of jalap.
* * *
M‘Kean, the long-drawn-out Melbourne
attorney, about whom people are much interested
just now, considers that church bazaars and art
unions are a weariness to the flesh. He once went
to a bazaar, spent £2 or £3, and only got value
for 10s., he says. We fear that a very elderly
virgin lured M‘Kean into buying about 20 lottery
tickets at half-a-crown apiece, and after drawing
a China doll and an earthenware tea-pot he con-
sidered the virgin’s smile was expensive at the
price. These things are a mere question of girl,
after all.
# * *
Somebody writes to an English fashion-
paper to prove that every woman ought to keep
her head shaved and wear a wig in order to be
cool and healthy. The wig is to be used cut of
doors only; at home in the seclusion of the
domestic circle she is to deposit it on the dressing-
table and go about with her naked head exposed
to the strengthening action of the sun and atmo-
sphere. It all looks plausible enough, but the
idea of calling on an absolutely hairless girl and
trying to regard her in a sentimental aspect is
too awful.
# # •
Divorce prospers in Victoria, this year’s
business being thrice the last, while all other legal
lines are depressed.
* # #
Bad times have actually induced the Tas-
manian Government to abolish the military guard
hitherto stationed at the gate of Government
House, Hobart. By the Great Bearskin Cap of
the Imperial Horseguards !
* » #
Dear Bulletin, —A German doctor says
that apples are a preventive against inclination to
inebriety. In short, stoke up with apples and
you’ll never “ crave ” for drink. But I hate apples
—and I like rum.—Dipso.
* * “ • **
The old, old trouble ;
A GENTLEMAN, with an income of five hundred a
year, age twenty-five, tall, dark-complexioned,
with military moustache, wishes to correspond with a
young Lady, with a view to matrimony ; age must be
under twenty-four, complexion no object. Address
8.G.5., Post Office, Goodooga.
The Bulletin hereby warns every female off the
above “ad.” When a man has a military
moustache it is eight to one that he is a hair-
dresser’s assistant. The hair-dresser’s assistant
has a better moustache than anybody else, because
he has the run of the cosmetic bottles when his
boss is out, and the genuine military man usually
has about eight distracted hairs and some stubble.
Therefore, women, especially women with coin,
should look with suspicion on the suitor who
wears his wig under his nose. The lady who
marries for a moustache might as reasonably
marry for four hoofs and a tail —in fact, the
chances are that she gets the hoofs and the tail
thrown in, anyhow.
1 found the way quite easy,
I'or there was worn a track,
Right from the Senate House front door
'To Madame B ’s hack.
Such pity as a father hath
On all his children dear,
He shows by scooping unto each
Three hundred pounds a year !
Alas! how true this platitude
Tho’ scoffers grin and think it funny—
True holiness is e’er subdued
For want of togs and ready-money.
You cannot draw to join in prayer
The man whose credit’s off condition.
Whoso pants have patches that impair
The dignity of the position.
He rarely goes to worship God
Who’s dined on bread and bones of mutton,
To take the sermon on the nod,
And fee high heaven with a button,
For seedy suits, we must confess,
In church are voted most improper ;
He’s only clothed in righteousness
Who wears black cloth and polished ’topper.
The difference between the saint
And ragged sceptic’s oft a matter
The tailor could make very faint.
And kill, assisted by the hatter.
For ne’er was parson on his perch
So eloquent—depend upon it—
To draw a woman into church
As is the latest season’s bonnet.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“ E.J.R.” (Parramatta) : Heavy, and nob
original “Gultuppa”: You say that you “don’t
think much” of your poems yourself, and we endorse the
statement with enthusiasm. Keep on feeling that way...
“Batter”: That Irish yarn dates back to the days when
the mammoth was flushed with pride, and the shock-
headed cave-dweller danced beneath the palms
“Morna” : Maoriland is a good place for a few—a very
few—working men to go to, but it won’t stand a rush.
No place on earth can stand much immigration. The world
is full of good places to get away from, but there aren’t
many of the other sort “Single-Tax”: We dislike
Henry George for the same reason that makes us dislike
62 consecutive dinners of hash, and every time you write
about him we dislike him more. We detest popular
choruses. Whenever anyone is popular it is time for him
to be killed: all “Honest Johns” and “Honest Toms”
should be slain “A. Holden ” : But it down a shaft.. .
“Northerner”: Good item. Thanks “G.H.” (Mil-
dura): What do you mean by “honest sweat?” Sweat
isn’t a sign of honesty. Nobody sweats more that a
welsher getting away from a racecourse on a hot day
“Tom Tough”: Pre-eminently local “Mourner”;
Interesting. Can you swear that it’s authentic?
“ A.B B.” (Brisbane): Eight dirty children howling round
a distracted preacher don’t constitute humour
“ Yermyn ” : Pathos chiefly concentrated in the first
verse:
“G.H.” (Mildura): Your base attempt to ring in
wattle poetry on us, also the bushman’s “ lonely grave,”
meets with the execration it deserves “Old 4T9R”:
We don’t doubt its originality for a moment. The man
who would plagiarise such a Hung would embezzle a liver-
complaint .. “ W.AS.” : Subject horribly uninteresting
“ E.H.G.” (Yass): You seem to have burst your crust
in the effort to find rhymes for “ Yass.” The result isn’t
worth the effort, and such things as “ this red-haired ass
of Yass” aren’t poetry “P.A.”: Declined. (1) The
hero named Bill is played out ; (2) No squatter engages
an operatic tenor to boss a cattle-station ; (3) Lovers don’t
talk about their “ mutual ” marriage. There being no
other kind of marriage, they take the mutuality for
granted When a writer describes rain as
“ the vaporous ebullition of Jupiter Pluvius” he is hope-
less, and we never read any further “A Tailor” : Will
print when we have got the superfluous blasphemy out of
it “5.1.8.” (Melb.): It was a good story once in the
long, long ago “ H.T.1.” (Melb.): Undressed jokes in
bed are notin present demand “D. Robertson” : We
decline to give your “ rhime ” a place in our “ colums
the spelling might cause the death of some weak sub-
scriber “Freetrader”: The man who starts to refute
us with, “On page 198 of his great work, Henry George
says,” etc., is beneath contempt. If you have any ideas
of your own send them along, but don’t be continually
sending hunks of borrowed matter “A. J. Casey”:
We rescue four glittering lines from oblivion :
“Notwithstanding he had a title we nat’rally wished to
know
If, like a true-born Native, he had damned the Chicago
Show ;
In answer to one of our pressmen the Premier said that
confab
Did not occur in a billiard-room—he was entering a cab.”
All the others are enthusiastically declined... “ Quippe ”
(Brisbane): Twenty-four comic verses to hand. May you
he compelled to read your own poem to an audience of
mad Chinese! “J.F.D.” (Leichhardt): Declined with
thanks “ Antseus ” : Good par. Thanks... “ E.M.M.” :
No small boy with pocket-money ever hanged himself in
22 pages of manuscript because he couldn’t get a billet in
an office “The Orphan”: We are glad you murdered
that man. It was a good and holy deed “K.P.”: An
unfinished horror. What becomes of the blood-stained
lunatic, and the dead Bill, and the paralytic who is left
freezing by the roadside, and the girl who fled shrieking
into the darkness? “A.S.” (Napier): Thanks “Rich-
mond ” : To the best of our knowledge and belief it was
posted to you long ago... “ Waratah ” : The only feature
in the story is that all the characters are named either
Jim or Bill—mostly' 8i11... “J.P.C.”: Please call
“ M,H.” (Masterton): Stereotyped London Journal yarn,
with the Wicked Squatter as a local substitute for the old
Wicked Baronet “N. O. Body ” ; Thanks “ Robert
Henderson ” ; Wants climax. What did the heavy hus-
band do when he came round the pillar suddenly and
found the other fellow embracing his wife? ... “ Arn-
heim”; High-class item “Tom Bowling”: Particu-
larly dreary sea story; also, good, upstanding libel
“ Van Demon ” : Wants age. Even trash grows interest-
ing when it dates back to smre pre-bosh or palaeo-rubbish
epoch of literary geology “The Loco Liar”:
Reasonably good, but we never print poems of 40 verses.
This is a newspaper, not a desert.. .“Colorado”: This
isn’t a “ comic paper it is dead serious, with a tinge of
dyspeptic melancholy and a subdued undertone of pro-
found sorrow. And yet the other day a lawyer’s clerk
shoved before us an affidavit in which he proposed to
make us swear that The Bulletin was a comic paper...
“ Colquhoun ” : The poor, battered, aged crock that wins
the big race in a canter has been dished up too often
“Oobargo”: Clippings received, with thanks “Goul-
hurn Gaol ”: Glad to know that the doggerel “is by
,” and thatit was “ set to music by ,” and “ sung
with much success by .” It has now been torn up
by “P. Parkins”: You say that your story
doesn’t amount to much “ regarded as literature.” Do
you expect us to regard it as soup—or what? “ Joseph
K— ” : Your article seems to be about one Parkes. Who
is Parkes?. ..“Thistles”: Unluckily, nearly everybody
knows the leading features of that black and wretched
city... “ Tas. Bushman ”: Well-written, but the story is
burdened with too much moral reflection. Send it to Syd-
ney Mail, or the Presbyterian “ Monaro Shepherd”;
“ Tattersall ” assures us that he never gives to the owner
of any horse the name of the person who holds the ticket
of that horse in any of his sweeps. We have no persona)
experience of the other sweeps named “Ikon”:
And when “New Australia” is a fact, what is to
become of poor old Australia ?....“ A. V.G.” (Melb.):
One in type “James” (M.L.): Scotch joke received
“Kuranda’,: Yes, he has refused to fight him
because of Jackson’s colour, but we can’t tell you the
date “ E. Kelsey”: You are like the Irish new-chum
who believed that St. James’, in King-street, Sydney, was
R.C. because the spire was painted green... “Darling-
hurst”: Ancient... “Turpentine”: Thanks. Quite an
error about our “only trying to please the masses.” We
just try to please ourselves. Sometimes we succeed, and
sometimes we don’t “ A.P." (W.S.); We have no
scruples whatsoever as to the social standing of anyone
who wants to write for The Bulletin. We will buy
acceptable matter from a convict in gaol or from a
syndicate of bishops “C. Mortimore”: We doubt if
any woman has the physical endurance to receive tele-
graph-messages at high pressure for four hours at a
stretch. As telegraph-operators men are, at places where
business must be done rapidly, at least 40 per cent, better
than women “A.W.A.”: We don’t print the spite-
ful “ parables " of Little Pedlington “Bluegrass”:
Unspeakably horrible. But surely you don’t advocate
sending decent women among such two-footed beasts ?
“Simple Child”: And Carnegie stole it from Dun-
dreary, and Dundreary stole it from—whom ?
I’m waiting for you to come, George,
I wish to see you again ;
Why are you keeping mum, George?
Why cause me all this pain ?


Amusements.
it JT ATIONS I HAVE KNOWN.’
“ A stream of laughter from start to fiuisli.”
Centenary Hall,
Monday, 3rd October &a' Eight Hours' Day.
IN THE I’KLSKNCE OF
His Excellency the Governor and Lady Jersey.
gix EarcWcll gomcdy :|iccture6!
By the Famous Humorist,
Author of “John Bull and his Island.”
After his phenomenal seasons in Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane, and prior to his departure for New Zealand.
“ Jonathan and Yankeedom.”
“The English at Home”
“ Her Royal Highness—Woman.”
“Sandy: the Scotch at Home.”
“ The Happiest Nation on Earth.”
“ Max O'llell is a company of comedians in which
every actor is a star.”
Max O’Rell’s Flying Tour.
The following are the leading dales after Sydney:—
Bathurst, Oct. in; Orange, Oct. 11; Dubbo, Oct. 12;
Young, Oct. 14 ; Ooulburn, Oct. 17.
MELBOURNE -Cup Week.
HOBART—Town Hall, Boxing Night.
DUNEDIN—Princess’ Theatre, January 9.
CHRISTCHURCH—Theatre Royal, January 1C.
WELLINGTON-Opera House, January 25.
R. S SMYTHE, Manager.
Q A R R I CK T H EA T R E
BRILLIANT SUCCESS ! BRILLIANT SUCCESS 1
and
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
EMERSON <Sc WOOD’S
-ALABAMA—
MIUSTBELS.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Prices—4s, Bs, 2s, and Is. Early door, Is Extra.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
LAST TWO (2) NIGHTS of
The LONDON GAIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
in
“ Faust Up to Date ”
SATURDAY, Oct. 1—“G \RMEN UP TO DATA.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
■JtJT R. HARRY RICKARDS
AND IIIS
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
St. GEORGE’S HALL (Melbourne) until October 7th.
ROYAL PRINCESS THEATRE (Bendigo) Monday,
October 10th; Six Nights. ACADEMY of MUSIC
(Ballarat) Monday, October 17th ; Six Nights.
Enormous Success, and Crowded Houses Everywhere
SYDNEY SHORTLY,
Business Manager . . JOHN C. LEETE.
SYDNEY SCHOOL OF ARTS.
THE SCIENTIFIC BASIS OF FORTUNE-TELLING.
ON SATURDAY, Oct. 1st., and MONDAY, Oct. 3rd.,
Mr. R. MI‘MIilla.11.
will lecture on
PALMISTRY and ASTROLOGY,
with miracle-working illustrations and hand-reading
delineations; assisted by
MISS ALEXIA ST. HILL,
one of the most distinguished palmists in the world,
recently arrived from London.
Reserved Seals, 2s. Gd., Front Seats, 2s. ; Body of Hall,
Is. Tickets at door, or at School of Arts Library. Doors
open at 7.30, commencing at 8.
rpHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
lour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
All Raihcay Travelling. XE6
Apply for particulars, cable address—“ OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. li.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
f
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 25?., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordaons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
Cd., 335. (id., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., ISs. Gd., steel reeds, 215., and 235. Gd.
Anglos, best kind, Sss., rosewood, 475. Cd., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 IGs.
TERMS:—Any respectable person in Town or Country
may purchase one or more instruments by pay ins: Is.
deposit, and the remainder to be paid off by instalments
at Is. a week. Postage stamps will do for country cus-
tomers. (Agents wanted.) J. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-
street. Cheapest Music Warehouse in Australia. Illus-
trated catalogues and particulars posted FREE.
BOOKS! BOOKS ! BOOKS !
Bought and Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
N
0 T I 0 E.
I desire, on behalf of the relatives of the late
Mr. WAY KEY, to thank his European and
Chinese friends, and the public generally, for the
kindly feeling evinced by them at the procession
on Sunday. 4th Sept.
(Signed) QUONG TART.
Bth Sept., 1892.
N 0
TICE-
I desire, on benalf of the relatives of the lace
Mr. WAY KEY, to thank his Worship the Mayor,
the Inspector-General of Police, the Transit Com-
missioners and Press, for their services rendered in
connection with the procession on Sunday, 4th
(Signed) QUONG TART.
Bth Sept., 1892,
Amusements.
8 —noun —8
DEMONSTRATION & PICNIC.
ROSEHILL,
MONDAY, 3rd OCTOBER, 1892.
ROSEHILL is acknowledged by all to be the
prettiest Racecourse in the colonies, and specially
adapted for a MONSTER PlCNIC.
Room for 100,000 Visitors!
TWO MAGNIFICENT STANDS, capable of
seating over 3000, from which an uninterrupted
view of the whole of the Sports may be obtained.
BEAUTIFUL SLOPING LAWNS.
From which the Sports may be viewed, and where
the
BALMAIN C0LD3TREAM BAND
(Of 20 performers) will play the choicest selections
from all the favourite operas, etc.
Summer houses, replete with Tables and Seats for
the accommodation of the large number
who enjoy a Quiet Picnic.
WATER, from TANKS and WATER-PIPES,
IN ABUNDANCE.
HOT WATER, FREE
May be HAD in the Leger Reserve.
Visitors are requested to KEEP OFF the 1
Ornamental Flower Reds in the Grandstand
Reserve, and under no consideration to pluck
the Flowers.
Magnificent Dancing Pavilion,
Which for Size, Ventilation and Finish is
Second to None in the Colony.
GRANDEST and MOST NOVEL PROGRAMME
OF SPORTS FET ATTEMPTED,
Comprising—
A pprentices’ Handicap
Eight-hour Handicap
All-comers’ Handicap
Walking Handicap
Sack Race
Barrel Race
Pick-a-Back and Stilt Races
3 Legged Race
Umbrella and Cigar Race on Horseback
Pig with Greasy Tail
And Numerous Other Amusing Events.
COMPLETION OF THE QUADRUPLICATION OF TUB
LINE.
Time of Journey, 30 Minutes,
Arrangements have been made with the Railway
Commissioners whereby 50.000 Persons can
be carried to and from Rosehill, time of journey
in no case to exceed Half-an-Hour.
No Waiting for Trains.
NO DELAY on the Return Journey. NO
CRUSH on Stations at Redfern or Rosehill.
GRAND ART UNION.
PRIZES VALUE £1100 !
First Prize,
STONE COTTAGE,
KYLE STREET, ARNCLIFFE,
Comprising SIX ROOMS, &c., value, £450.
Second Prize,
FURNITURE
Value, £50.
Third Prize,
HAYDN ORGAN,
Value, £36 15s.
Presented by Beale and Co., George-street.
PEE SONS RESIDING- IN THE COUNTRY
may obtain Tickets by forwarding the neces-
sary amount in stamps with stamped and
addressed envelope.
TICKETS. —Adults, 2s, ; including Railway
Ticket, Admission to Ground and chance in the
Art Union whether present or not.
ONE ADULT TICKET will supply two chil-
! dreu with chance in the Art Union.
i COMPETITORS and TRAINERS requiring
Tickets can receive the same by applying to the
Secretary at the Trades Hall any evening between
7 p.m. and 9 p.m.
i
1 NOTE. —DTIPLIC ATE NUMBERS OF ALL
' TICKETS sold are placed in the ART UNION
| BARREL, therefore it is not necessary for Ticket
Holders to Attend the Demonstration, as many
think, to obtain a Chance in the Art Union.
THE ART UNION will be drawn on the
SATURDAY Following the Demonstration.
Due notice will be given of the Drawing, which
will take place in Public.
TICKETS may be OBTAINED from
Mick Simmons, Haymarket.
Beale & Co., 482 and 484 George-street.
Dymock’s Book Arcade, next Royal Hotel.
Bray Brothers, George-street, next King-street.
Gowing Brothers, Outfitters, George-street
S. J. Kirby, Bookseller, Brickfield-hill.
Craig and Aitken, Tobacconists, Brickfield-hill.
J. Thompson, Bookseller, Erskine-street.
And Other CITY Shopkeepers.
And from the Principal News Agents, &c., at
Surry Hills, Redfern, Darlington, Pyrmont, North
Shore, Balmain, Glebe, Camperdown, Annandale,
Leichhardt, Petersham, Newtown, Enmore,
Marrickville, Summerhill, Ashfield, Paddington,
Waverley, Randwick, Rockdale, Kogarah, Gran-
ville, Parramatta, &c., and from the Secretary,
Thoa. "W. Purse,
TRADES-HALL, DIXON STREET
(Foot of Gqulburn-street).
Furniture, etc.
D
R AWING ROOM SI 11 'I'ES.
LAWLER’S,
Drawingroom .Suite?
Drawingroom Suites
Drawingroom Suites
Drawingroom Suites
Drawingroom Suites
GOB,
010,
012,
George Street,
Sydney.
dsf
CATALOGUES POST FREE
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
LAWLER’S
STEAM
FACTORIES,
1, 2, 3,1, 5,
0,7, 8,9, 10
UNION LANE.
12 10 0
24 10 0
CATALOGUES POST FREE
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
LAWLER’S
ILLUSTRATED
FURNISHING
GUIDES
POST
FREE.
dsf
jgr“ ASTONISHING VALUE THROUGHOUT.
JOHN LAWLER and SONS.
ASTONISHING VALUE THROUGHOUT.
Plain Pinewood
Plain Pinewood
Plain Pinewood
Plain Pinewood
Plain Pinewood
Plain Pinewood
LAWLER’S,
THE
COMPLETE
AND
THROUGHOUT
FURNISHERS.
Tables, -C/G
Tables, 8/0
Tables, 12/6
Safes, 11/6
D ressers, 17/6
Dressers, 45/-
Bedsteads
Bedding
Bedsteads
Bedding
Bedsteads
Bedding
IF
ECONOMICAL,
GET
ESTIMATES
AT
LAWLER'S.
dsf
LAWLER’S HAVE THE PALM
Eoit BEDDING.
Bedding
Bedding
Bedding
Bedding
Bedding
Bedding
LAWLER’S
The
EFFECTIVE
SANITARY
KAPOK
MANUFACTURERS
Pure,
Wholesome,
And
Health-giving
Lawler’s
Bedding.
03T INFORMATION FREELY SUPPLIED.
LAWLER and SONS
PROMPTLY ANSWER ALL INQUIRIES.
Carpets
Carpets
Carpets
Carpets
Carpets
Carpets
LAWLER’S
For
FLOORCLOTHS.
LAWLER’S
For
FLOORCLOTHS.
Halls,
Stairs,
Drawing,
Library
And
Diningrooms.
er FOR FURNISHING NICKNACKS
SPECIALISTS,
AND FOR TIP-TOP VALUE, TOO.
Ironmongery
Earthenware
Glassware
Cutlery
E.P. Ware
Cliinavvare
LAWLER’S
Submit
That
THEY ARE
HARD
TO BEAT.
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
tST EVERY DEPARTMENT OF A
FURNISHING HOUSE
COMPLETE and THROUGHOUT
At
JOHN LAWLER AND SONS,
COS, GEORG E-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Every inquiry attended to, and to the best of
our ability fullest possible information gladly sup-
plied.
LAWLER’S,
ESTABLISHED UPWARDS OF
30 YEARS,
FURNITURE, BEDSTEADS, BEDDING, &c.
Miscellaneous.
I
&
a
in
40.000 iu Use. Record. 170 words per minute.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the loading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 flrst-clsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY; J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizaheth-st ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE;
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART; J. Walch & Sons.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(BEST IN THE WORLD.)
it2T To be obtained from all Grocers and Store-
keepers throughout the Colony.
I The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
i
The poor Barmaid having’
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is Gd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To bo had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
rjlHE DAWNING OF THE TRUTH.
No great enterprise was ever crowned with
success until it had met and vanquished, or lived
down, discouragement, unbelief, and popular
opposition. The experience of the Waterbury
Watch Company has been no exception to this
rule. The watches made by this company were
derided by the press and the public; still, they kept
good time, despite careless usage, and although
sneered at by paragraphists and associated in the
popular mind with cheap chromos and poor
clothing, they earned for themselves the repu-
tation of being the only reliable low-cost time-
keepers in the market. From one step of ex-
cellence the company proceeded to another —from
the “long-wind” to the “short-wind” —adding
an enamel dial*and an improved stem-setting
attachment, which latter is second to none for
both convenience and celerity. Beginning the
“ short-wind ” with the Series “J,” in a nickel
case, they followed with the Series “L,” a six
size, for ladies and youths. The next step was
the production of Series “K,” eighteen size, for
gentlemen, with a double-sunk enamel dial, and
equipped in nickel, sterling silver, and rolled
gold cases. Then they brought out the Series
“N,” four size, for ladies, a little beauty with
nickel, sterling silver, and rolled gold cases, and
with both full and chatelaine dials. To-day the
word “ Waterbury ” is synonymous with ex-
cellence and economy. People who used to sneer
at the words “Waterbury Watches” now point
to a beautifully engraved case containing an
honest and reliable time-keeping movement, and
when queried as to its make, say with honest
pride, “Only a Waterbury, but a Waterbury
that I am not ashamed of ; a splendid timekeeper,
and only costs a trifle.” The revolution has begun
and the word “ Waterbury ” is already receiving
justice at the hands of those who lately sneered at
it. The truth is dawning upon the masses, and
the real worth of the Waterbury Watches has
triumphed over misrepresentation and past popu-
lar misapprehension.
Waterbury Watcli Co.’s
Repair Depot,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
All in search of health
should use Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Appli-
ances. Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Belts and Corsets
are universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest, and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption,
Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Paralysis, Loss of
Voice, Nervousness, Indigestion, Palpitation, etc.,
and have cured some of the most obstinate and
distressing cases after all other remedies (so called)
have failed. Illustrated Circular and Price List
of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances sent
post free to any address on application to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
50 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
IT WAS TOO CHEA P.
A good story is told of a physician, who, on
meeting a patient, put the question to him,
“ Well, iiow did the prescription work?” “Oh”
replied the erstwhile invalid, “it was a complete
disappointment.” “Indeed; how is that?”
queried the puzzled medico. “Well, it cost me
seven and sixpence to have it made up by the
chemist, and here I am better after taking a
couple of doses; all that money has gone for
nothing.” This incident has its ludicrous side,
although after all it is but another verification of
the truth of the proverb that “That which is easily
gained is little valued.” It is a remarkable fact
that some people are so constituted that they can-
not bring themselves to believe that under proper
conditions there is nothing antagonistic between
cheapness combined with simplicity and genuine
merit. The fallacy of concluding, without other
sufficient reason, that because an article is cheap
it must necessarily be proportionately “nasty”
and of small worth, is principally shared by the
ladies, although it is a characteristic of some of
the sterner sex as well. Especially is this the case
with persons afflicted by accident or disease.
They somehow get the notion into their heads
that their greatest safety rests in retaining the
services of a surgeon or a so-called specialist (who
as likely as not will consult his own pocket in not
effecting too speedy a cure), and will scout with
derision the idea of a simple, natural remedy being
able to effect any good. To a large extent the
common prejudice against anything that bears the
name of a patent medicine is responsible for this;
the very important fact being overlooked that
there are patent medicines and patent medicines.
“By their fruits ye shall know them;” that is
the only legitimate test. The good fame and
known value, for instance, of that greatest of all
household remedies, St. Jacobs Oil, has now
become so widespread and generally recognised in
every clime and country under the sun that it has
in the case of many thousands come to be regarded
with even greater trust than the family physician.
Indeed, in not a few instances, where the best
efforts of the latter functionary resulted in failure,
St. Jacobs Oil has come to the rescue and raised
the patient, crippled and racked with pain, from
a bed of suffering from which formerly there
seemed no escape short of death itself.


la apologising to an insurance co. which ho
i„ivvittingly^niisrepresonted in a Parliamentary
1 I, ]}. K. Wise thanks the secretary for the
tmd manner in which “you approached me.”
~ Approached ” is good under the circumstances.
ANDREW USHERCO.'S WHISKIES.
NOTICE,
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Go’s Labels and Trade Marks as under
Andrew Usher
n
& Co.’s
I
OLD VATTED GLENLIVET WHISKY.
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve."
ItI.AKK A KICCALL, Solicitors,
120 WII.LIAM-ST., Mei.B,
DOCIORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O : “ It is the Queen
of Corsets. They arc delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. 0. Kelly L.E.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the iupirious effecis of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15
olaremont, Hastings, England.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost this most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and suffer
from Private Nervous and Skin Diseases, producing
bashfulness, want of energy, nervousness, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay, head-
ache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints, pimples,
weak stomach , impure blood , contagious diseases ,
should send for Dr. M. Perry's work on Nervous De-
bility. It will describe their case most minutely,
and point out, with unerring accuracy, the best
means of rapid and effectual cure, without
MERCURY OR OTHER POISONOUS DRU(\S.
Late House Surgeon, Great
Nthn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital f
Ship “Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
Makes a
Speciality
of Private NER-
VOUS & Skin Diseases.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty yean, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY AND PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in
Dr. Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to
how this most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most
perfect modern Electric Appliances for pains or
weakness in any part of the body. He supplies a
Genuine Electric Belt, from whi. h the current
can be distinctly felt, for £l, Electric Baths for
Consulting Patients.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily,
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m.
on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION PEE CHARGED.
Sole Address~lsl Elizabeth Street, Sydney
m ASM AN lA. Messrs. FITZGERALD
A BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
hr the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.'
Wolfe’s Schnapps— £l orders.
There is a paper in N.S. W. called the
Cripple Creek Crusher.
.£ 1-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps
Sir George Grey would have been elected
to the Commons onoe, but for Gladstone’s
opposition to his Homo Rule principles.
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Dr. Znamesky, a Moscow dentist, is stated
to have invented a means by which false teeth
grow to the gums as firmly as do natural ivories.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Pure. Palatable, Perfect,
Mr. H. Isaacs, of 77 Macarthur-street,
Ultimo (Sydney), has drawn The Bulletin’s
attention to a recently-published paragraph which,
he states, in the opinion of a number of his
friends, reflected upon his business rectitude.
The Bulletin lias to state that no allusion to
Mr. Isaacs was intended, and that it has never
heard anything in any way derogatory to the
character of that gentleman.
Still More Testimony
FOR
m/f OTHER AUBE RTS REMEDIES.
The Wairarapa Daily.,
(October 17, 1891.)
A firm hold throughout the.length and breadth
of New Zealand has now been gained by the
Aubert Remedies, and their efficacy in ordinary
cases of illness has been irrefutably established.
Even with the most severe manifestations of liver
and kidney complaints and of apparently chronic
asthma and bronchial affections, they are cal-
culated to speedily remove the troublesome
symptoms. Their success in this direction is
plainly vouched for in the striking testimonials
we publish in another column. There is a feature
in these certificates, too, which is as convincing as
it is unusual, and that is the fact of their all being
openly signed by the persons who have received
benefit. This at once is an evidence of good faith
which must carry weight. The success of Marupa
as a cure for whooping-cough is as well known as
to need no further remark, while as a general
tonic Karana is almost equal in repute. We com-
mend a perusal of the experience of others, as
published elsewhere in this issue, to those who are
suffering from any form of ill-health. The Aubert
Remedies can be obtained from druggists in
almost every part of New Zealand, so widespread
has become the demand for them. There need be
no hesitation in giving the preparations a trial,
for they are guaranteed by the manufacturers to
be purely herbal, and to be most carefully com-
pounded in strict accordance with the receipt and
instructions of the Reverend Mother Mary Joseph
Aubert, whose wonderful cures with them in the
Wanganui and Napier districts for some years
back have been a subject of thankful wonder, and
have secured her much gratitude in acknowledg-
ment of her devoted skill. Mother Aubert has
made a special study of New Zealand herbs, and
it is the remarkably successful application of her
discoveries that has led to the remedies being
placed in the open market with such gratifying
results.
Catholic Times.
(November 6, 1891.)
MOTHER MARY AUBERT’S REMEDIES.
In this week’s issue will be found an alteration
in the adver isement of Mother Mary Joseph
Aubert’s Remedies. It is astonishing how rapid
has been the growth in popular favour of these
medicines. The proprietor, Mr. Kerapthorne,
has already received such encouragement that he
intends going over shortly to Australia to arrange
for the sale of Mother Aubert’s Medicines through-
out the other colonies, where most probably they
will become very popular. It cannot be doubted
that there is great virtue in these medicines,
otherwise so many flattering testimonials would
not be given. The proprietor has entered into
this business with great spirit, and has already
spent a very large sum of money in advertising,
and although it will bo some considerable time
before this can be recovered he is very sanguine of
the ultimate results.
It is safe to say that no remedies have so quickly
become popular with the general public, and at
the same time have achieved such extraordinary
and daily increase in sale.
It is now generally admitted that the inedic’nes
are all that Mother Mary Joseph Aubert claims
for them. This good lady has done more than any
other person in this colony in research among
vegetation for medicinal remedies, and it is be-
coming a widespread belief that all complaints of
the human system can be cured by herbal treat-
ment.
We wish the proprietor every success in this
deserving undertaking.
Wellington, August 25, 1891.
Messrs Kerapthorne, Prosser and Co.
Dear Sirs, —Having used two bottles of Marupa
for my son, aged six years, who had a severe
attack of whooping-cough, I can confidently
recommend it as the very best medicine in effect-
ing an almost immediate cure.—Yours truly,
C. W. Gauntlett.
Invercargill, Nov. 27, 1891.
Mr. Kerapthorne.
Dear Sir,—Please send me another gross of
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert’s Remedies. I find
they all sell remarkably well, particularly Paramo.
Those who get it once come back for more. —
Yours truly,
C. IT. Macallstf.r, Chemist.
Meanee, Hawkes Bay, Sept. 9, 1891.
To Sister Mary Joseph Aubert.
I write to express my gratitude for the benefit
myself and family have derived from your
medicines, and can say that their effects were
really marvellous.
William Farrar.
THE stormy weather of the last two months
should now be at an end, and we should get
a spell of sunshine. Now, a change of this kind
will have its effects on the human system, and
colds and coughs are sure to predominate.
Be in time and get some “MARUPA” in the
house, and save yourself from the very unpleasant
feelings of a cold in the head or throat.
“MARUPA ” is a good friend, and will not see
you left.
A BRILLIANT COMPLEXION
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
Vanisb. like Magic
By a few applications of
professor <§evon’s <§o inflexion (Lotion.
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
clear the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. Beware of worthless counterfeits - they
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
ss. «d., Stamps or P. 0.0.
Prof. DEVON.
20 Castlbrbaou Street (City), SYDNEY.
-THE-
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
A.nd. Foster Mlotliers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. lIADKINS.
FACTORY; Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms; 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, September 23, 1S!)2.
rIIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5.
Supply of Cast-iron Water Pipes and Special
Castings, Bathurst Water Supply
Bridge, Box Creek, road Oxley to Tarrawong
Bridge, Coolac Creek, road Yass to Gundagai
Bridge, Green wattle Creek, road Dunmore to
Clarence Town
Bridge, Moogin Creek, road Dunmore to Clarence
Town
Bridge, Bartie Creek, road Dunmore to Dungog
Bridge, Hanley's Creek, road Dunmore to Dungog
Repairs Post and Telegraph Office, Wentworth
Erection of Lands Office, Moree
Erection of Police Quarters, Bowna
Bridge, Bungonia Creek, at Bungonia
Erection of Cottage, Pilot Point, Richmond River
Additions, Biloela Gaol
Bridge, Skinner’s Gully, road Moree to Mnngindi
Bridge, Orphan School Creek, at Canley Yale
Bridge, Deadman’s Creek, road Dunmore to
Clarence Town
Tar-paving Roads, &0., Leper Hospital, Little
Bay
Drainage and Repairs to Black-lane, Prospect
Erection of Railway Station Buildings, Milson’s
Point, North Sydney
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS.
(A deposit of <£lo required on account of each
contract.)
SUPPLY OF
Anchors, Chains, &c.; Rope, &c.
Awnings, Sails, &c. ; Steel
Leather Belting, Hose, &c.
Ship Chandlery, Diving Gear
Brooms, Brushes, &c. ; Handles
Engineers’ Stores, Nos. 1 and 2
Carpets, Castings, Chairs
Boats. Clinker and Carvel built
Clocks, &c. ; Ironmongery
Hardwood, Kauri Pine
Oregon and American Redwood
Colonial Pine, Portland Cement
Draftsmen’s and Surveyors’ Instruments
Draftsmen’s Materials, Quarry Tools
India Rubber Goods, I lose, &c.
Plate. Bar Iron, &c. ; Furniture
Oils, Paints, &c.; Plumbers’ Materials
Copper and L'-ad Pipe, &c.
Wrought-iron Bucket Links
Wrought Scrap-iron Forgings
Wrought Iron manufactured in New South Wales
Stone for Maitland District
Stone for Parramatta District
Window Blinds ; Coal for Sydney
Coal at Lake Macquarie
Coal at Wollongong
Drain Pipes, Metropolitan and Illawarra Districts
Northern District
Western District
Southern District.
CONVEYANCE OF COAL.
Newcastle to Bellinger River
Newcastle to Cape Hawke
Newcastle to Clarence River
Newcastle to Look's River
Newcastle,to Camden Haven
Newcastle to Hastings River
Newcastle to Macleav River
Newcastle to Manning Ri.er
Newcastle to Myall River
Newcastle to Namlmcca River
Newcastle to Richmond River
Newcastle to Tweed River
Wollongong to Mornya
Wollongong to Shoalhaven.
Government Notices.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11).
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes and Special Castings,
&c., Dubbo Water Supply
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c., Jerilderie Water
Supply
Supply of about 20,000 tons Cast-iron Pipes,
and Special Castings, to be manufactured in
New South Wales
Bridge, Terrebola Creek, road Goodooga to Bre-
warrina
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
Bridge, Stoney Creek, at Farley, road Maitland
to Wollombi
Bridge, Cuffe’s Creek, road Bourke to Barringuu
Bridge, Spring Creek-road, Germantou to Jin-
gellic
Repairs, Light-keeper's Cottage, Tacking Point,
Port Macquarie
Bridge, Kirribee Creek, road Bourko to Hunger-
ford
Construction of Service Reservoir, Moss Yale
Water Supply
Construction of Storage Reservoir, Moss Vale
Water Supply.
Manufacture in the colony, and supply, &c.,
Pumping Machinery, Parkes Water Supp’y
Erection of Engine House, and Construction of
Pump Well, Parkes Water Supply
Construction of Service Reservoir, Paikes Water
Supply
Manufacture in the colony, Supply, and Erection
of Pumping Machinery and Engine House,
Moss Vale Water Supply
Erection of Stables, &c., Police Barracks, &c..
Mud gee
Alterations, &c., Post-office, Albury
Erection of Laundry, &c., Hospital for Insane,
Gladesville
Erection of New Ward, ditto, ditto
Erection of Pavilions, Benevolent Asylum, Parra-
matta (fresh tenders)
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Goulburn
Stormwater Sewer, Baptist and Phillip Streets to
M'Evoy Street. Contract No. 91, Sydney
Sewerage
Bridge, Tumut River, road Kiandra to Tumber-
umba, at O’Hare’s Crossing
Construction of Tramway from Newtown Bridge
to Cook’s River. Contract No. 2
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tocumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
Erection of Police Quarters, Warialda
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Moulamein
Additions, Police Station, Nimitybelle
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER IG.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lismore to Hang
ing Rook, at Walsh’s Crossing.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
General Post Office,
Sydney, 2Gth September, 1802.
ATTENTION is directed to Gazette Notice
inviting Tenders for the Conveyance of
Mails betwien Bnngendore and Captain's Fiat,
Gerrymberryn and Seeland-, and Katiomba and
Megalong (North Gamp).
Tenders will bo received up to 11 a.m. on the
17th proximo, and must be addressed to the
Secretary to the Post Office, Sydney.
JOHN KIDD.
Sporting.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
CAULFIELD C,-0:t 15.
At 5 eacli. (50,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 5000; Second, 1250; Third, 1000; S (d\ 1010;
N S (d), 1150 ; 10 at 100, 1000 : 10 at 50, 500 ; 10 at 20,
200; 50 at 10, 500; 50 at 5, 250; 100 consolations at 2;
350 consolations at 1.
MELBOURNE C Nov. 1.
At 5 each. (100,000 .Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10.000: Second, 2500; Tiiiid, 1500; S(d), 2000;
N S (d), 2500 ; 20 at 100, 2000 ; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 20 at 20,
400 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; IUO at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 consolations at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
Stale amount enclosed, and addressed envelopes with
application—one for receipt and the other for result.
Register. Address: GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 07 Oxford-
street, Sydney, N.S.VV. For full particulars send for our
printed circulars.
ATTESSALL’S
CAULFIELD CUP.
Run at Caulfield, in October, 1892.
50,000 ut 10 50,000
MELBOURNE CUP.
Run at Flemington, November I, 1892.
100,000 at 20 100,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O, receipt till you receive our reply.
B'W Address— “TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
33IEXDIEj-
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER.
OVER 20 YEARS before the PUBLIC of NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOUTH WALES
MELBOURNE CUP.
20 Each-20,000 SO Eack
FIRST, 8000; SECOND, 2000; THIRD, 1000; S. (divided), 1500; N.S. (divided*, 2000 ; 5 at 100 each, 500 ; 30 at 50
eacl), 1500 ;75at 20 each, 1500 ; 200 at 10 each, 2000. 310—extra—310.
MELBOURNE CUP.
lO Sacli 25,000 —IO Eaclx
FIRST, 5000 ; SECOND, 1500 ; THIRD, 1000 ; S. (divided), 1000 ; N.S. (divided). 1000; 20 at 50 each, 1000 ; 25 at 20
each, 500 ; 100 at 10 each, 1000 ; 100 at 5 each, 500. 245-extra-245.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of the P.Q. receipt till you receive our reply. Thanking you
for past patronage and trusting for continuance of your support. Programmes Sent on Application.
Address—“ ADAM BEDE,” Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Sydney.
TATTERS ALL'S MELBOURNE CUP.
zoLTJ-nxr
100,000 at 100,000
FLE MIKTGTOKT, Ist WOVEMBER,
BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS, AND TAKE CARE OF
THE P.U. RECEIPT TILL YOU GET OUR REPLY.
1892.
50,000
at io 50,000
Address—" TATTERS ALL," care of George Adams, Tatters all’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
mm
BOLD MEDAL
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS.
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE EACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED. AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DISCOVERED and. REGMSTERED Tt»y
Heir ZR^-SS^TTSSIEHT.
P«gtNTtDTo°^',^
> V& jMßasmjssen Esq & I;
■'Sz~^? T S*' s r '-~Z rvl v
*:'p asatoke n of c fat i T’j o e °'i :
- Tmm.* v £:
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWORN TESTIMONY-
Statutory iUIS Declaration.
ITHOS. MUD I MAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New Soutli Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish HerbaMst, —Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. tfour remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen —I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both in my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bounce-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you. —F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good. — John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. —A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.—J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.—P. H. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen.— l have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers : I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
ii
i
HERE, RASSMUSSEX,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR."
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of
N. S- Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Boxes—Gs. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Fills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted, Is. 6d.,
35., Cs. and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Fills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes,
posted, 35., Os., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and &cnl
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beantifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beantifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off. Posted,
3s. and 6s.
Herr Rassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
he Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per*
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them. Mr,
Rarnsden’s ease is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “doctors” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
su ff enn £ humanity.”—Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”— The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales.” The Essenden and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser. —lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
Testimonials.
__ Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, Yaricocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any kind. Ordinary course 235. 6d.
posted. Special powerful double course, 435. 6d. posted Boxes at
6s. and 12s.
Chief Hoad Depot:
54:7 STREET,
{3sr
SYDNEY.
main laboratory.
Victorian Head Depot:
150 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
R( me lies sent Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 BUNDLE STREET
ADELAIDE.
ty Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
QUEEU S T IH. IE IE T ( -
BRISBANE.
- tSf" Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALFALINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED FROM THE ABOVEMENTIONED DEPOTS.
“ Tlie KTatural Doctor.”
A < aluable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains muen useful advice. Posted, Is.
May bo obtained from all Depots.
Important.
Always send money by P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same. All correspondence’
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “ The Alfaline Medical Guide ” sent free oif
receipt of addressed and 2d. stamped envelope.


prink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Wow’K's Schnapps has no injurious ingredients.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Woti'E’s Schnapps is the greatest tome and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
BRIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
rnelliok Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post f4cl
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
f ree
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
AH the above Books, containing upwards of 700
Designs, hound in One Volume, post free, Is. 9d.
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
8326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
THE AUSTRALIA HOTEL.
('ASTLEItGAGII STREET, SYDNEY.
P ACKNOWLEDGED, by universal consent, to be the
PREMIER HOTEL OP AUSTRALIA,
and worthy to compare with the best in Europe and
America. The Australia has had the honour to enter-
tain some very illustrious visitors, amongst others
Madame Sara Bernhardt, H. M. Stanley, Max O’Rell, Lord
Sheffield, Nellie Barren, Frbd. Leslie! Sir Henry Norman,
etc., all of whom have expressed their delight with the
accommodation and attention shown them at The Aus-
tralia. ■
The Tariff includes all meals, and ranges
from 12s. 6d. per day.
Communications should bo addressed to
Till] MANAGER.
This Food should be tried wherever other nourishment
has not proved entirely satisfactory.
Allen & Hanburys’
INFANTS’ FOOD.
Already Cooked—Requires neither Boiling nor Straining—Made in a Minute.
-s^
ts
15®
m
• .
ST t'
Brant Broughton, Newark,
17/12/90.
Messrs. Allen & Hanbukys.
Gentlemen,
I send you a photograph
of our ‘ twin ’ baby girls, taken,
on their first birthday, Novem-
ber nth. From birth they have
beenfed entirely on your Malted
Food, and from being poor, frail
little mortals, whose lives were
despaired of, they have thriven
and become quite chubby and
jolly little specimens of baby-
hood. Moreover, so far, they
have been entirely free from
illness of any sort. I ought to
say your food was recommended
us by ourfamily doctor. Kindly
post us the photographs back at
your convenience.
Yours very faithfully,
(Signed), JAS. WALTER.
No Better Food Exists . —London Medical Record.
Very digestible, nutritious, & palatable. —British Medical Journal.
My child, after being at death's door for weeks from exhaustion, consequent upon severe diarrhoea,
and inability to retain any form of“ Infants' Food ” or Milk , began to improve immediately he took
your malted preparation, and I have never seen an infant increase in weight so rapidly as he has done.
H. E. Trestrail, F.R.C.S., M.R.C.P.
A Nutriment peculiarly adapted to the digestive organs of Infants and
Young Children, supplying all that is required for the formation of firm
flesh and bone.
Price, Is., 25., and ss To be obtained from all Chemists & Storekeepers.
BROWN’S PATENT
DERMATHISTIC CORSET.
ELEGANCE! COMFORT!! DURABILITY!!!
m
ft
“ The actual wearing out
of such a Corset as this be-
comes an absolute impossi-
lity.” Lady’s Pictorial.
. “ An ingenious method of
insuring durability. ’ ’ —Myra
“It seems, indeed, as
though one pair would last
a wearer the whole course of
her natural life.”— Sylvia.
SPECIALITY.
BONES, BUSKS, & STEELS,
PROTECTED BY LEATHER.
Principal Colours;
Black, Cardinal, Tabac,
Gold, Ruby, Terra Cotta,
Apricot, Dove, & White.
The Registered 1 Coach Spring
Busks’ with which' these
Corsets are now fitted are
Warranted Unbreakable.
Every Lady should try
them. Order at once.
<«//
S3t Cautioni Do not take a Substitute; Beware
of Worthless Imitations.
FOR INFANTS, CHILDREN & INVALIDS*
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“I am pleased to say that when every form of diet failed we were enabled
to give ‘ Benobr’s Food and to see our Children gain rapidly and permanently.’
mmm
THE MOST DELICIOUS,
NUTRITIVE & DIGESTIBLE.
Retail in Tins Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., ss. and 10s., of
Chemists , &c., Everywhere.
Mottkrshead & Co. (S. Paine & F. B. Benger) 7 Exchange
Street, and Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Wholesale—Sydney: ELLIOTT BROS.
A AH
■■■ll
fMH
uunmu
498 & 500 GEORGE STREET.
T/fA D€MA RK
A.ustral Clothiers.
Gent.’s Cape Overcoats—2s/- to 47/6.
Gent.’s Chesterfield Overcoats —15/6 to 30/-.
Gent.’s “Austral” Business Suits—27/6
to 50/-.
Gent.’s D. T. Black Parramatta Cape Water-
proof Coat-30/- to 55/- (sewn seams, and
guaranteed).
OUR CELEBRATED
H.R.H WHITE SHIRTS
(made by Welch, Margetson & Co.)
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.
25/6, 33/-, 37'0, 42/-, 45/-,
the Halt Dozen.
Gent.’s Silk Umbrellas 8/6 to 45/-.
MERCERS, HATTERS, and JUVENILE CLOTHIERS.
*/"• J
5 v»
■
S
Shipping. _
lil NGL A N D VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE,
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALANE
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran
cisco EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under;—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £6O.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
/NOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARX*
v TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government or
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
oils,Cslo u *s 4 Paints
wallpapers from &
NTg.
m
529 George st/BathurstSt]
——Brickfield Hill.
dsf
the IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to Castle-
reagh-street),
Between King& Market Sts.,
svi>m:v.
'M
mm
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
&ol)ofc£tf WlcDOu. ]V[anagen,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
GOLDEN S H A N T Y.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
Wfstebn Champion (Barcaldine, Q- ) still
largely gets its living by stealing Bulletin para-
grapl*3'
Thackeray’s “ Pendennis ” drops out of
vj-ight this year, and “Vanity Fair” is already
fflfcrfivepenoe. HI
Dear Bulletin,— Why am I a 1 rotec-
• ; 9 . Wtiv do the turf and the thoroughbred
Sfit 'by handicapping -Yours, T.Y.
Baron HirscU’a Jewish colony m Argentina
■ already on the down-grade. When the erni-
,S. Its arrived the land was there all right, but
K was all. Every man was presented with an
lovelv hunk of plain and a spade, and left to
r ft for himself anyhow he could. There was no
'to keep the settlement going; there was no
‘ pr and the ground wasn't fit for agriculture in
,v case and the colonists were not agriculturists.
'Then* various epidemics broke out, and some of
ii community died of hunger, and some wanted
m brain Hirsch’s distracted agents, and at latest
advices all was confusion and insurrection.
Dear Bulletin, —Your recent reference to
r) r Schomburgk, late curator of Adelaide
Hotanical Gardens, was hard on a worthy man. I
from general report, as I did not know him
n's onally. When I came to Adelaide 15 years
Iffo the Gardens were justly celebrated for the
beauty and profusion of their floral growth,
a their reputation was maintained till Dr.
Sohomburgk’s death. If to resent the irre-
trievable maiming of a splendid avenue of
Moreton Bay fig-trees, and the uprooting of
another composed of stately gums indicates a
conservative citizen then I am one,_ although
I did not know it before. Fashion is as
aggressively arrogant in gardening as in
other things—for instance, when Owen suc-
ceeded Downes as commandant of the S.A. civil-
forces, his criticisms suggested a beastly condition
of mismanagement and old fogeyism on the part
of the retired General, and when the latter in turn
succeeded Owen, the service—by Jove !—had gone
to the devil. Holtze may be a brilliant and pro-
gressive curator, but there is a decidedly gaol-crop
aspect about the Gardens just now, from which
they cannot recover for a generation at least. —
Yours, Crowkater.
Editor Bulletin, — Messrs. M‘Eacharn,
Siddeley, and others, have endeavoured to “ ex-
plain” the motives inducing them to promote
another shipping strike
I told the men that their wages were too high, and that
they would have to meet a reduction in some way as other
classes had done, especially when it was remembered that
men employed on the steamers were “found,” and that
their wages were really much higher than those of similar
classes of labour ashore. The price paid on ocean-going
vessels was from £3 10s. per month to £4 10s., while
intercolonial seamen earned £7. On the occasion of the
last maritime difficulty it had been intended to reduce
wa'ies, but as the question of freedom of contract had
come in it was not thought advisable to insist on both
innovations at the one time.
Now, if these individuals will remember that
sailors, in common with landsmen, have already
contributed to the deficiencies in the revenues of
the respective provinces wherein Jack calls when
ashore, to spend his few shillings in providing for
his own wants or (God help us !) for those of his
wife and family, they may recognise the inj ustice
of compelling him to incur double responsibility
for the errors of landsmen who should invariably
be lined whenever shipping disasters occur if this
sort of logic is to hold good. The question is not
on how little the unfortunate British tar is driven
to subsist, but on how little the Australian seaman
thinks it possible to make his hardest of exist-
ences endurable? As for the “finding” of our-
selves, we cheerfully invite Mr. M‘Eacharn, or
any of his admiring confreres, to dine with us for
one week afloat and to share our comfortable
cabin, after which he may descant as one
speaking with authority on this portion of our
privileges. Of course, we all know that the
freedom-of-contract question was merely a_ dis-
guised attempt to reduce wages, despite the lies of
the ship-owners and a subservient press at the
time, and it is on that account (fortified in the
public estimation by the ship-owners’ agents’
tardy confession italicised above) that we intend
henceforth resisting this freedom-of-contract game,
no matter what the process may involve. —Yours,
John Trennee. Sailors’ Home, Melbourne, 12th
Sept., 92.


Are unequaled for the cure of constipation,
dyspepsia, jaundice, bilious troubles, liver com-
plaints, sick headache, and colds. Being purely
vegetable and without mineral drug of any
kind, their use is attended with no injurious
consequences. Though radical in effect, they
are mild in operation, and, therefore, the
Favorite Family Aperient
their delicate coating of sugar and gelatine
making them peculiarly acceptable to both
sexes and all ages. Ayer’s Pills are recom-
mended by leading physicians and are famed
the world over for their remarkable cleansing
properties, not only on the stomach and bowels,
but on the blood and other fluids of the body.
As an after-dinner Pill, to assist the process of
digestion, they are invaluable. No traveler,
either by land or sea, should fail to be provided
with
Ayer’s Fills,
PREPARED BT
Or, J, 0. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
««
m
Full Music Size aiul Guarantee*! Correct.
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
49. Call Me Back Again.
253. Starlight Nell.
267. Then You’ll Remember Me.
295. White Wings.
410. Who's that Calling so Sweet.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
427. A Little Peach in an Orchard grew
528. Bogie Man.
566. Gipsy Countess (vocal duet)
567. Diver in E flat. 565. Diver in F.
569. Maggie Murphy s Home.
PIANOFORTE.
473. Altnlie March. Mendelssohn.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
504. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively
the holbobn music stores,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Tost free, Is.
Kst. 1815] TRADE SUPPLIED. [EsI. 18-15
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
*'s Maigidckcheil
BUSUV I° HSE
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are tbe most fashionable inffye world.
Sold by all Ijigl? classTerfumers.
GUSTAVLOHSE. BerIin.
J 1 Perfect Food.
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK.
sdf
<o^
NOURISHING.
delicious.
For INFANTS.
FOR THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the i
richest and purest of milk, combined i
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
111 no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water,
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
111 fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
—■Lancet, April 4, 1891.
Malted milk, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Mery
palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Halted MUk will keep indefinitely in any climate,
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents .
Eluott Bros. Limited, Sydney <t Brisbane.
malted milk go., 39, show hiu, londcn, e.g.
At Newtown you can buy G N TJ N Darlings.
Freetraders smoke G N U N Darlings
A Darling that never deceives, G
W CAN THIS BE TRUE ?
A !
8
K 1
S'
n
]V i
; N
MACKs
D O U.BLE--
SSPPRniiH'
s
I ?
S?
T 2
,0<
N <
i H<
! A<
iY:
> n
[G
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss,Borax, Gum, Wax,&c.
PR F VENTS : The Iron from scorching or sticking.
PRODUCES ; Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES : Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers^
YES ! TRY IT AND SEE!
—THE—
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LMTD.
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: London, E.C.
Branches in Australia : MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and ROCKHAMPTON.
BROKERS IN WOOL, GRAIN, TALLOW, HIDES, SKINS, LEATHER, ETC.
General Manager in Australia . .. DAVID ELDER.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It j s
the best invigorator out.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: McUAKTIIIf A t'O.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
McCarthy & CO., Tobacco Merchants,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
as
we like Sapo.lio-They waste
themselves to make* the world
brighter. SA POLIO is the
electric light oj-house-cleaning
THE OLD RUT
and old methods are not the easiest by far. Many people travel them
because they have not tried the better way. It is a relief from a sort
of slavery to break away from old-fashioned methods and adopt the
labor-saving and strength-sparing inventions of modern times. Get out
of old ruts and into new ways by using a cake of SAPOLIO in your
house-cleaning.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS. AND IRONMONGERS.
MARSHALLS ~
TONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
\wl
Y
nmnpMM
■.inn
" : yini
>*«*«
\\ '
GIVES NERVE POWER U
IMPROVES DICES I lON
LEA & PERRINS
■sauce!
Pul chasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
Ash for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi the Proprietors , Worcester ; Crosse <f- WarJcUcll, London , ,4 c -> >
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Colony,
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Within Forty <4=o) MUea of Sydney — on Western RaUway mne.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blochs, Town Lots, with Water BigrhtS;
IsTOW BEADY FOB lIST'SFEC'X'IOIsr .A IN - ID SELECTION.
tj- COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY— PENRITH TO MULGOA. jl
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa,
°Ka,JdLIo e, W Gorman, 133 IPltiti Street, ay&xxoy-
Mary Called Him “Mister.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
They’d parted but a year before —she never
thought he’d come,
She stammer’d, blushed, held out her hand, and
called him “ Mister Gum.”
How cotdd he know th n *' all the while she longed
to murmur “John
He called her “ Miss le Brook ” and asked how
she was getting on.
They’d parted but a year before; they’d loved
each other well,
But held been to the city, and he came back such
a swell.
They longed to meet in fond embrace —they
hungered for a kiss,
But Mary called him “Mister,” and the idiot
called her “Miss.”
He stood and loan’d against the door—a stupid
chap was he
And, when she asked if he’d come in and have a
cup of tea,
He looked to left, he looked to right, and then he
glanced behind,
And slowly doffed his cabbage-tree, and said he
“ didn’t mind.”
They’d parted but a year before, &c.
She made a shy apology because the meat was
tough,
And then she asked if he was sure his tea was
sweet enough ;
He stirred the tea and sipped it twice, and
answer’d “ plenty, quite
And cut the smallest piece of beef and said that it
was “right.”
They parted but a year before, &c.
She glanced at him at times and cough’d an awk-
ward little cough,
He stared at anything but her and said, “ I must
be off.”
That evening he went riding north —a sad and
lonely ride —
She locked herself inside her room, and there sat
down and cried.
They’d parted but a year before —they loved each
other well,
But she was such a country girl and he was such a
swell;
They longed to meet in fond embrace, they
hunger’d for a kiss,
But Mary called him “Mister” and the idiot
called her “Miss.”
Sydney, Sept?, ’92.
H. LAWSON.
Ollivier, secretary of S.A. Railway and
Tramway Association, who went to Broken Hill to
officially enquire into the strike, told the writer
that Sleath’s body was black and blue with the
marks of missiles flung during the excitement.
Which suggests that the stone-throwers are not all
unionists.
The cabled announcement that a syndicate
of Anglican bishops arebuyingthe “siteof the Holy
Sepulchre ” recalls a passage from Win wood Reade,
who, discussing the ancient Hebrew religion,
quaintly remarks ; - “It was an idea worthy of
the Jews that they should keep the Creator to
themselves in Jerusalem, and make their fortunes
out of the monopoly.”
The Carlton (Vic.) Bench lately sent
an unemployed orphan-boy to prison for two
months for stealing a pair of boots to sell for the
means of procuring food. A few days earlier the
same bench gave an old rascal one month for a
filthy offence. There is but one god, “ Proputty,”
and the J.P. is his prophet.
Parkes has suddenly discovered that Bar-
ton, in whom his soul delighted last Parliament,
is no good, and that Dibbs, whom he has for years
scouted as a blundering dunderhead, is the one
man in the Government “in whom I should be
most disposed to place individual confidence in
his general merits.” He also admitted his many
great qualities,” and, moreover, “ his fine, open
manly nature.” Parkes followed this up by de-
precating that the Assembly should be “ dragooned
by the Attorney-General because he had a greater
power of speech or was supposed to have a greater
capacity.” Then he went on to say that Mr.
Began is a perfect gentleman, and remarked that
Mr. Reid had acted the part of a sensible, up-
right, intelligent man. All these things sound as
if Parkes had suddenly gone mad, and, like some
madmen, taken an unintelligible hatred of every-
one he had liked (we had nearly written “loved,”
but Parkes never loved anyone in his life), and an
equally incomprehensible effect—liking for every-
one he had hated, while sane. But those who
watched him say there seemed method in his
madness.
An excess of animal food and a partial closii fif
of the pores of the skin, during the winter months,
cause the system to become filled with impurities.
These are removed and the blood purified by
taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Somebody sends us a story we have
never read it before— a drunken Scotchman
who, reaching his hut one night, fell over his
stool and went to sleep on his back in the fire-
place. Later, he awoke, and his vision, glancing
up the chimney, encountered the pale stars
shining in the sky overhead. “Eh, mon, ’ he
soliloquised, “eh, but whisky’ll be the death o
ye, yet. Ye maun gae and fa’ doon a shawft !”
With much muscular exertion, he climbed up the
chimney, only to fall outwards from the top to the
ground. “Greaoh guidness! here ye’ve fa’en
doon the neeborin’ yen. I’m thinking ye’d best
bide here till the morn.”
Homburg, M.P. (S.A.): “In the census
we have invariably counted tin' people of Broken
Hill as virtually the people of South Australia ”
Mynheer Huippurk is like his countryman
“Hans, how many shildren you fader vhas''’’
“Dirty-one.” “Von dirty-one shildren haf
“Not mit dot ozzackly. I haf sefen, mein right
door neighpor haf dirteen, und mein left-cloor
neighbour haf eleven. Pud ve vhas all in von
vamily, you know.”


WITH torturing, disfiguring* eczemas, and every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly,
crusted, pimply and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application, and speedily, permanently and economically cured by the Cuticura
V-
/?
f
Remedies when the best physicians, hospitals,
and all other remedies fail. No language can
exaggerate the suffering of those afflicted with
these diseases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
Remedies are the greatest skin cures, blood
purifiers and humor remedies of modern times,
are absolutely pure, and agreeable to the most
sensitive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with gratifying
and unfailing success.
CDTICn
I
The great skin cure, instantly allays the most
intense itching, burning and inflammation, per-
mits rest and sleep, heals raw and irritated
surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales,
and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, the
only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable
in cleansing diseased surfaces. Gutioura
Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier
and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the
blood of all impurities, and thus removes the
cause. Hence, the Guticura Remedies eure every humor of the skin, scalp and blood,
with loss of hair, from pimples to scrofula, from, infancy to age. bale greatei than the com-
bined sales of all other skin and blood remedies.
E3T “How TO Curb Diseases op the Skin and Blooh,” (14 pages. 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped
around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout, the world, Price, Cuticura,
50 cents ; Cuticura Soap, 25 cents ; Cuticura Resolvent, *l.OO. Prepared by Potter. Drug and Chbmioal Corpora-
tion, Boston, U.S.A.
Pimply, Blotchy and Oily Skin,
Bed, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails are prevented and cured by Cuticura Soap, incomparably the greatest
of skin purifiers and beautifiers, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive ot toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and ctre o'C inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of pimples,
blackheads, rough, red and oily skin, and simple humors of infants-. a


Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Watches, Diamonds, Jewellery, Silver-plate.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT IFIEaOIM: THE IMI .A. TsTTJ FACTTJEEES TO THE • PUBLIC.
UNEQUALLED FOR VALUE, UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY, and at PRICES IN MANY INSTANCES NEARLY ONE-HALF THAT CHARCED ELSEWHERE.
ear IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED OUT BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent, of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Wonderful Goods at Freetrade Prices!
STEWART DAWSON k CO.’S
WORLD-FAMED
LIVERPOOL ENGLISH LEVERS.
50,000 TESTIMONIALS 50,000
From wearers in all parts of the world.
FBEETRADE
PRICES.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watohe 3
advertised as English.
Bt)Y ONLY THE GENUINE.
Oq £>S.—S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
'*'o O LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
no i aS.— S. D. and CO’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
3b O i HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£0 Bs. Beware of imitations.
n a i aS.-S. D. and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
L U jnq LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chrononietet balance. Perfection. Cheap
ftt £7.
nr 1 AS.—S. D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
S/D 1U HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
i aS.-S. D. and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
1U jjSH HUNTING LEVER, extraordinary
value.
i> /. -j aS.— S. D. and CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
iU Centre-seeonds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear ; without equal; cheap at £lO.
Pi a -8, D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
~ I Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER,
Breguet Spring, finest Compensation Balance, as sold in
the best shops in London from £l5 to £2O; seven years
guaranteed.
1 I AS- S. T>. and CO.’S English Double-minute
I L J and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English. The best Sporting Watch in the
World. Matchless value.
£t cS.—S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
• O WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £1 12s. (id (Ladies’ and Gent’s).
1 S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable, and of guaranteed quality.
Worth £lO.
J?Q i AS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £lllos. S. D.
iyj an( j co.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Extra value. (
-P.lO 1 0 s ” £l2 10s - £u 10s - t0 £25—S. D. and
L CO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals at the
prices named.
c AND Pca -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking. After a period of six months’ adjustment
these watches are sent to the Government Observatory
Test Office at Kew, London, where they undergo a six
weeks’ test in every position, heat and cold, after which a
certificate is issued stating the number of points taken.
Note that none of ours are allowed to pass under A 75, the
highest possible being AlOO. The B and C Classes are of
much less value. A 75 ensures a rate not exceeding five
seconds’variation in one’year. •
Any watch in,the above'List sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee on receipt of remittance.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jeweller}- comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches—birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment and other designs a special variety. All at Free-
trade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’s Magnificent Assort-
ment of Ladies’ inexpensive lif carat Gem Dress Rings, in
new designs, from 255. to 605., affords the best means for
selection at genuine Freetrade Prices ever placed before
the public. Our stock of 18 carat Wedding and Keeper
Rings is the largest and best value in Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets, Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entrbe Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style, Salad, Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from ,4s.
6d ( per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at loWer prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long shaped Purses Porlemonnaies, Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
WITH THE ADDITIONAL SPACE
At our disposal, we have now added the largest stock ol
these to he found on the Australian continent, and we
ask every reader to compare ours with the prices you have
been paying - . Notwithstanding the duty of 15 per cent,
recently put on by the Government, the following will he
found from 12y to 40 per cent, lower than Waltham
Watches have ever been sold in Sydney.—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate ~ ..£2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .v .. .. 212 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, f-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels 4 4 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance,
patent regulator .. .. .. .. , 5 10 0
Ladies’Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. ’l. 7io (I
Ditto ditto ditto, IS carat .'. ".. .. .. 1210 0
Oent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and .Gentlemen's"full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver eases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions,
All Watches Guaranteed.
i
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN'S GOLD ALBERTS.—Note.-The above
is our great speciality, and the variety, character and
value of cmr slock have no equal in the whole of Austra-
lasia. Our selection of appendages, consisting of Seals,
Lockets, Compasses, Charms, Freemasons’ accessories,
&c., should he seen by every intending buyer.
GENTLEMEN'S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our block of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets,
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition.
NOTE.-~Bpecial Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip-
tion by the best WORKMEN.
STEWARf DAWSON & CO.’S Watch and Jewellery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY • Melbourne and Auckland.
Tales of the Early Days.
No. XII.—Beneath the Summer Sun.
( FOR THE BULLETIN .)
By PRICE WARUNG.
The blue infinitudes of the skies and the
distant ranges were swimming in a lustrous haze
to the eastward—but to the far westward smoko
upon smoke, thunderous in its aspect and in the
rumble of its rapid encroachment on the doomed
timber. And the men hauling their sleeping
caravan up the steep hill, beyond where Hartley
Bridge now throws its span, shivered While they
gasped under the stress of their labour and in the
stifling of the heat. They prayed for the night-
fall. But it was as yet only high-noon. And
they knew, as they p;ayed, that their prayer was
not to be answered. God might be willing to
listen, but the System had cut off connection
during working hours.
God might be merciful, but the new road
organisation was just. Being high-noon, there
would be no temporary lull in the labour for an
hour, and no stoppage of it for six hours. Let
the heavens burst with their brassiness, the new
road regulations were imperative. So Ensign
Manning, of the —th Regiment, believed.
To do him justice, he believed it. All his
instincts—he was but a boy—leaned to the side of
good comradeship and sympathy. But his orders
were clear and precise—and this was his first
command —and he was anxious, of course, to
acquit himself well—and equally, of course, the
transports under him were quite terrible fellows !
If they were not terrible fellows justly smitten of
Fate, completely beyond reform, why, of course
again, his superiors in Sydney would not have
ordered them to the iron-bound gangs on the
mountain roads. English law was ever just; and
it was not his to reason why; and his privilege
and his obligation as a true Englishman was to
do his duty; and—and, so forth.
Being only a boy, how was he to understand
that never yet did the devil forge so potent an
instrument of evil (save one) as an Englishman’s
belief that when he acts from a sense of duty he
must be right? And that exceptional one was the
mediaeval Spaniard’s notion that the more finished
fiend he proved himself the more exquisite plea-
sure he conferred upon the Mother of God and the
Saints.
# # *
Now, the road regulations, the Bible of
the Blue Mountain iron-gang, were explicit as to
the hours of work. The gangs were not supposed
to labour between 1 and 2 p.m., but were sup-
posed to be wielding the merry pick or the
luxurious tamping-iron, or performing other soul-
saving exertion between 5.30 a.m. and 6 p.m.
And by the kinder grace of the Authorities, the
dragging over ridge and range of their lumbering
hell-upon-wheels was regarded as work on the
roads. The more brutal system of the earlier
days had demanded that the transports should
remove their sleeping-vans from depot to dep6t in
their own time, but the System at the epoch of
this our present story was becoming humane, and
it conferred upon the men the sweet boon of their
own leisure. It was, however, a just system as
well as a humane one—and, therefore, in the
System’s time the men had to work. So they
bent to the cable-thick rope, for all that the
strands burnt and blistered like red-hot iron, and
they trembled and stumbled step by step—to the
length of their fetters. Which were not like red
hot iron, but were.
They had reached the razor-edge of a ridge.
The caravan poised its twelve-feet length of un-
wieldiness on the crest, and the sergeant of the
guard walking a yard behind the van on one side
of the road—so that such shade as was obtainable
from the withered gums might refresh him—called
across the road to the subaltern in command.
“Let ’em chock her a bit, sir?” Beneath the
respectfulness of his tone was a sympathy, and
more than one head beneath the leathern caps
turned and sent a thankful look through dull
eyes. He had done what he dared.
“ They will have an hour’s rest at one o’clock !”
It was not Manning's fault, if the earth spewed
heat as well as the heavens. The Regulations
were imperative, and duty was duty. So the
wheels were unchocked—then.
* # #
No. Eight was an old man. There was the
benignancy of age in the grey hair and the white,
furrowed face. An uneducated" man, that was
plain, too, but from the glazing eye glimpses of
intelligence slid out at moments; and feeling—the
dumb, inarl iculate feeling that you can see in the
eye of a dog. He was the sort of man of whom
Wesley made his earliest class-leaders—who spoke
of what they felt, and not of what they knew, for
they knew nothing save the desperate need of
sinning souls and the goodness of God. This, at
least, was what you could have read in his face.
At the same time, you would have been, so the
Systemers would have told you, quite in error.
For Bill Cousins, No. 8, was a mighty offender.
The law had held him in bonds this ten years, and
would do so for ten more. His offences were
heinous, and the portion of the wicked here and
hereafter was his, or to be his. Even as he stands
here, deceptively venerable in aspect, gasping
long, long breaths, and praying mutely to his 'God
to forgive him the sin of repining at his lot—for
he does repine sometimes—it is questionable
whether he should be allowed to live. The law
had sentenced him to be drawn, and hanged, and
quartered, but the gracious prerogative of mercy
had been exercised, and his worthless life had
been spared so that he might repent of his awful
crime. And—that crime?
There are some offences against the law that
may not be named audibly. This is one of them;
hence, let us whisper it : “No. 8” had thrown a
stone against a Bristol merchant’s window in a
Reform Bill riot.
There are many thousand words in the indict-
ment —a copy lies open before us now—but that is
the plain meaning of the volume of involved ver-
biage. The Crown called it treason, but really he
broke a window !
And so old Bill Cousins deserves no sympathy
from us, though he be sixty years of age, and
tender of heart, and prayerful in speech, and mild
in temper—and panting for breath beneath the
burning blue of a January sky in a droughty
summer.
* * #
The “hell upon wheels” swung on the
ridge, as six of the twelve men held her up with
their backs against her, while the rest of the
twelve eased her down with their crowbars. The
privates of the guard distant (as per regulation)
ten paces, on either side, watched the operation
and were grateful for it. They got some shade,
and stood easy, resting on their muskets.
Slowly she descends. The three-foot diameter
wheels, solid circles of timber, revolve reluctantly,
and grate and crumble the granite rubble of t' i
rook. Perhaps one in fifty is the gradient, no
great task to achieve even for a laden bullock-
team in these days, when the art of the bullocky
is dying out of the coast lands ; but a fit job for
human refuse, such as No. 8, in the hot summer
days of the early epoch. There was not one of
the twelve that did not grow maddened and
desperate as they fought that dreadful home of
theirs. For she became endowed with life—she
quivered—she reeled—she slnieked terribly as the
devil in her in the moment of contact with a boulder
twisted out the rude axle-pin, jerked off the left
rear-wheel, and stretched her ponderous mass on
her back. Over the cries of the gang, over the
clank of the irons, over the crash of the beaten-in
timber, over the groans of—of someone, rings
stridently from among the spare shadows cast by
a lank blooand wood
# *■ #
From side to side, struck this way, struck
that way, went the gangers who, in the fear of the
first shock, had grouped themselves on the near
side of the overturned caravan. The Sergeant
parted them with stinging blows, thrusting them
apart as the diver does the waves. And they had
not recovered their balance—there is no elasticity
of step when the feet are drawing behind them
seven-pound chains—when he, somewhat inconsis-
tently as it may seem, considering his immediately
preceding action, called upon them to help him.
“ For God’s sake !-Wells, Beattie, Western-
all o’ you help me ! He’s my father ! ”
And the eyes in the grey head just protruding
beyond the edge of the van timbers, open slowly
at the words. The lids separate with a feeble
tremulousness—but the light that shone in them !
It shamed the blazing of the noon-day; and no
wonder, for their luminousness was not of this
world.
“Don' ’ee—Jimsey! I—be—aw’reet! ” And
then the Sergeant and the other transports saw
enough to convince them that to move the van
would be to hasten death.
The Sergeant, dashing his shako to the ground,
knelt beside the prostrate, overlain form.
“O, Father—Father-I was feered o’ this!”
The piteous tearless sobs of the stricken man
shook him fierrelv “I knew t,’would he so
shook rum fiercely. X Knew t would oe so,
sooner nor later.
JJon ee—Jimsey—lad! Now, don’ ’ee ! ”
The old man crooned this, and then his face
changed fearfully. The terror of a great agony
was in it, and it was not good to look upon. He
nleoded fin a voice that hrona-bt the sweat to the
pleaded fin a voice tliat Drought tne sweat to the
gangers’ brows, and to the boy subaltern who was
the symbol to all present of the Great and Merci-
ful and Just British Empire, a faintness that he
never forgot) for the fast-speeding death to come
Q uicker
“ O God—O good God ! Be ’ee merciful now,
an’ take I quick ! ”
The Sergeant turned his head and showed a
ghostly face to the gang.
Go ee way, men ! And stooped once more
over his dying father.
The gangers withdrew some paces— stealthily as
though they were in a sick .chamber! Some
stooped as they moved and drew up the block of
wood to which their chains were attached, so they
should not clank.
Ensign Manning alone stayed where he stood,
In his glance around, the Sergeant had not seen
his officer and perhaps would not now have noticed
him had not the Ensign spoken.
“ Is he really your father, Sergeant ? And can’t
we do anything ? Can’t we get him from under ? ”
The Sergeant sprang up, and, stood for one
instant swaying on his feet as though nerving
himself, after counting the cost of striking his
officer, to dash Manning to the ground. Manning
certainly expected a blow, but did not flinch, . J
The blow, if intended, did not fall. Tor' the
old man spoke.
“Jirnsey, now—don’ ’ee ! Yu’ promised I ag
yo’d do yu’ duo tv. ”
The Sergeant knelt again. “ Eli, dud - 1 did '
An’ I’ll do it yet, for all they killed yo’.”
“Ah’, Jirnsey- yu’ll seek —ti i ’ Kingdom, lad?
Yo’d no go t’ tip bad now poor o'd dud es gone?
Thou was alius* good t’ I ! ”
“I tried to, father 1 ’ The sobs were not tern-
less now.
Manning turned away, lie made a false clutch
for his scabbard at his side, lie had to make a
second dutch before he grasped it.
# * #
What iui mediately happened then no one
of the gang and the guard could say later.
Whether the old man, moved by his pangs, asked
his son, or whether it w.ts the • Sergeant’s own
thought, no one to this day knows. But a private
of the guard saw the Sergeant bend down- and
press his father’s lips with his own, and then
brush the clammy forehead with them. And
then they heard a shot, and, while yet dumb and
stupefied with the report, they saw the non-com.
rise from the side of his dead and pass to where
Ensign Manning was standing. He saluted, and
holding out the still smoking pistol, said ; “ Twar
better so, sir ! There bo no doctor nearer ’n Emu
or Bathurst. An’ I could na’ bear t’ see th’ o'd
dad suffer ! 1 give mysen up, sir ! ”
The Ensign would not order him into arrest.
# # #
There are other meetings of convict father
and soldier son recorded in the painful annals of
the convict times. Only one, however, was more
tragic in its results. And in that one also did a
“Hell upon Wheels ’’ play a part.
Note.— At the risk of apparently justifying a Review
of Reviews’ criticism that my convict characters were
“ odd compounds of Uncle Tom and Dick Turpin,” this
story of the old Methody transport, “ Bill Cousins,” is
here told out of its order at the request of “ Ensign
Manning,” who writes to me, under date of the 31st July,
as follows;—“ I suppose the Reverend Mr. Fitchett or his
contributor thinks there were no pious convicts. You
can tell now if you like, without waiting till I am gone,
what I told you of old Bill . I would not give you
Before the copy of the poor fellow’s indictment, hut as my
death is only a matter of mouths now, you may have the
paper at once. Sir E. Deas-Thomsom procured it for me,
and you will see it is a certified copy. ... I don’t
know anything about Torquemada, but, looking hack now
ou what I w as, I think if it had not been for poor Bill and
his son I might have become a Begree. ... I forget
whether X mentioned that the Sergeant was killed in the
Crimea 1 ’’—Price Waring.
The Salvation Army has given up part of
its Melbourne premises.
. , ~ , , ,
A timber-getter told a new-chura barrister
in a Brisbane Court the other day thathehacl loaded
a 60ft. log. (Astonished) :“ Do you mean to tell
lne V ou loaded it? Ya-as! (Astounded):
11 A 60ft. log.’’ ‘‘Ya-as!’ (Breathless); ‘‘By
yourself?” “Course!” “Do you mean to toll
nie you loaded a 60ft. log without any assistance .' ’
“ Waal, there was the jinker ! Ha ■ I thought
bo. A ba*i W 1 do—stand aside. Now call ‘the
j inker.’”


FRAZER’S
surma tailits.
CAUTION.
IT IS HEREBY NOTIFIED that legal proceedings will be immediately in-
stituted against any Chemist or person discovered infringing Frazer’s Tablets’
Labels or Registered Trade-marks, or Selling Fraudulent Imitations of ‘Frazer’s
Sulphur Tablets ” or Sulphur Soap.
|5 REWARD! |5
Will be paid to any person giving such information as will lead to tlie con-
viction of any Chemist or person selling an imitation put up in a fraudulent
wrapper —in particular, one hearing the representation of a “ Yellow Tablet
on a Black Ground. ’
T. K. STEANES,
Attorney for FRAZER S TABLETS (Limited),
56 Margaret Street, Sydney,
— and —
-231 Elizabeth street, Melbourne.


Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay—G NUN Darlings.
A home comfort—G NUN Darlings.
At Marrickvilleyou can buy 6NUNDarlings.
Better than Broken Hills —G N U N Darlings.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
PEMELI/S
WHEAT
MEAL.
m
Agrees tvith the moat \
delicate persons.
&
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF AM SAUCE IN THE WORLD,
Simply Delicious with
STEAKS, CHOPS, COLD MEAT, FISH,
SOUP AND ENTREES,
Makes Cold Meat a Luxury.
THE PLAINEST VIANDS PALATABLE.
Blends admirably with all Gravies.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Tlie most delicious Sauce in the World.
Sold Retail by all Grocers, &c.
Wholesale-TILLOGK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors —GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Makes the Richest Custards
in a few minutes
WITHOUT ESBS.
Tbe HOUSEWIFE'S BEST FBIEND.
Saves trouble, and is far more
economical than Eggs.
MAKES A VARIETY OF DAINTY DISHES.
Sold by all Grocers, Stores, See. -•
DELICIOUS
JELLIES
In a few minutes by using
(Mall's Jelly Squares,
The Squares are complete in themselves,
and are sold in the following Flavours:—
LEMON, ORANGE, RASPBERRY,
STRAWBERRY, VANILLA, PINEAPPLE,
BLACK CURRANT and RED CURRANT.
WOITDEEFXTLLY HA2TDY.
ESJ&SIIuY IMJsLIDE.
One trial will ensure their always
being kept in the house.
Sold in Boxes containing Half-Pints, Pints,
and Quarts, of all Grocers and Stores,
WHOLESALE-TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietox’S
GOODALL, BaCKHOUSB fic CO., Leeds, England.
Positively the 33 eat Hair-Dressing
For Strengthening, Beautifying and Preserving the Hair.
£ XT A T 5 T TmVTTP ’
H A rc. I iH.IM JGJ
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer,
Used by thousands daily. Its Superiority is Unsurpassed ,
Edwards’ * HAELINE ’
dsf
Positively Forces
Luxuriant Hair*
Whiskers
AND
Moustac hios
To prow heavily in a few
weeks, without injury to the
skin, and no matter at
what age.
--
fim
Wt
AFTER USE. AFTER USE.
.THE WORLD-RENOWNED REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
from whatever Cause arising. As a producer of WHISKERS and MOUSTACIIIOS it lias never been equalled.
AS A CURER OF
Weak & Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour never fails.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce It to he perfectly Harmless and Devoid of any
Metallic or other Injurious Ingredient.
NormssG so Effecti al as Edwards’ “ Uarlk.se.”— “Dear Sir,—l am very pleased to say that your ‘Darlene’ is
takiiur effect upon my hair. Have tried several remedies, but none have proved so effectual as Edwards’ * Harlene.’—
E. RICKET, 505 High Road, Gunnersbury.”
A Wonderful Discovery. —“ Dear Sir,—Yours is indeed a wonderful discovery. I have used one bottle, and can
detect an improvement in my hair already. Please send another bottle.— W. A. RUDSTEAD, 40 Handsworth
Street, Glasgow.”
An Anxious Father Satisfied.— “ Sir,-I am pleased to testify to the efficacy of your ‘Harlene.’ My little boy
(4,1 years old) lias bad a bald place on the back of his head from his birth. I applied the ‘ Harlene’ to the place daily,
and flic result has been most satisfactory ” —Name and address suppressed by desire. Original may be seen.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle. To be obtained from the leading .Merchants, Wholesale
Druggists, Chemists,.and Perfumers throughout the Colonics.
♦
Manufactured Only hy
EDWARDS and Co.,
95, High Hoiborn, London, England.
Medical,
mrain Tiilm,
By Royal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Ear None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may b as well to let them know that there is such
an rtiele as JOSEPHSON ’S OINTMENT purely
theprodactionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
So famed' thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
Guaranteed Free from ale Poisonous
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dearth's, —I have tried your Jo'ephson's Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row's Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We re comined these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children. t
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Crentlemaii says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co ;
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1886.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
■om the undersigned :
“I have for many years been obliged to take
ledicines of different kinds for affections of the
vor, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
ility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
epression of spirits, and so on, but all without
reducing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
3Com mended to try ROW’S DANDELION
UTTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
n unexpected and wonderful effect and change
i my system, and has removed from my mind
he horrible depressed feeling and former con-
ition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
erienced for so many years. 1
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
he excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
UTTERS, that those who are affleted as I have
een may take advantage.of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“ Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
■ Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
-JT.
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAINING
HOW'S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’EE DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
ROW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCTHJ BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Sole Bropiuetors,
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
13, 15, 17 GEORGE STREET, sVdNLY.
The Song of the Bush.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
List to the song by the camp-fire glare !
The song of the bush hath a beauty rare.
It floats afar on the midnight air
And sweeps the broad lagoon ;
It starts the wild-dog in his lair
And greets the silver moon.
Wild are the notes which the night-winds bear,
But to me they are fraught with a beauty rare.
List to the song by the camp-fire glare !
The bushman’s song hath a beauty rare !
It tells of the maid he loved one time,
Who lived by the Murray stream ;
Her graceful form— her peerless prime,
They haunt e’en yet his dream.
It telleth of weal and it telleth of woe
For the song of life, it is always so.
List to the song by the camp-fire glare,
The song of the bush hath a beauty rare—
It sings of the ride on the patldess plain,
Of stockwhip’s crack and ring,
Of the steed that never needed rein
Or envied bird its wing ;
Of .-the comrade who rests where the grass is deep,
Arid sleepeth sound in his last long sleep,
y
List to the song by the camp-fire glare,
It cbangeth- again on the cool night air.
It sings of the lass and the brimming glass
With its crest of snowy foam ;
And again ’twill ring with a glorious swing
Whene’er it breathes of home,
Rude the bushman is, but his pulse beats true
As the stars that shine in the welkin blue.
List to the song by the camp fire glare !
O ! the song of the bush hath a beauty care !
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
In Bohemia.
I love a true Bohemian—
A man of open heart
A man in whose prosperity
His comrades bear a part ;
Who, if hard-up, will stint himself
To help a friend in need,
Who scorns conventionality
And prudery, and greed.
A man of broadest sympathies,
Unmarred by dirty pride ;
A man who never hesitates
To take the weaker side.
Sworn foe to every sycophant
And hypocrite, and churl,
A libertine who yet would spare
To harm an honest girl.
A man of independent mind,
A man who dares to think,
Although, perchance, his intellect
Is oft bemused by drink.
And, though lie wear a cynic mask
And play a cynic’s part,
Strives ever vainly to conceal
His nature’s key-note— heart.
1 hate a sham Bohemian
(“ Bohemian ” hut in name)
Who toadies ail celebrities,
But feels a sneaking shame
To greet a man with seedy coat,
Or own a drunken mate
(Who may yet be sterling metal
Whilst he’s electro plate !)
Who loves full wall w ith journalists
And actors to consort,
When by his kin and well-born friends
Not likely to be caught—
Who strives to live two lives at once
And so is false to both ;
Who keeps in with “Society”
And yet is nothing loth
To take a drink in humble pubs.,
Or join in a carouse
With men whom he would never think
Of asking to his house.
Melbourne, August 19,1892.
A. V. GREENWOOD.
“ Halfhartington ” is what they term
Devonshire’s duke.
At a social purity meeting held recently in
San Francisco, one “advanced” parson rose to
inquire how the meeting proposed that the 1300
“ unfortunates ” of the city should earn their
living when their present means of subsistence was
abolished by the spread of Terewth. He pointed
out that the labour-market was overstocked, and
that most of them would starve unless the social
purity people could offer them some reasonable
means of sustenance. Then it transpired that the
meeting hadn’t considered the point, and a white-
headed preacher said he regarded the inquiry
as altogether irrelevant.
The other day the Jesuits, at Richmond
(Vic.), imported a case of water from the
“ miraculous ’ grotto at Lourdes, France. It went
through the Customs, and a gauger opened a bottle
and tasted it. It seemed water, but who on earth
would carry mere water from Europe in pint-
bottles ? The Customs man was suspicious. There
must be some deep-laid scheme to defraud the
revenue. Maybe it was a proprietary medicine.
He telephoned to Government Analyst Blackett,
who came down at once with all his tools, tasted
the water, and looked grave and puzzled. Finally
he pronounced the contents to be ordinary water
and nothing more. Just then a priest dropped
in to take away the case. “What is it,
anyhow?” says the gauger. “Water from
Lourdes,” was the reply. “Well,” says the
gauger, as the Jesuit disappeared, “these teeto-
tallers are a queer lot. They’ll only drink water,
but they’re mighty particular about their liquor,
when they import it. Where’s Lourdes, Mick ?”
Two or three months ago, a Mr. Jordinson,
*n Englishman, not long resident in Melbourne,
committed suicide for no ostensible reason. Jor-
dinson having left some property there was a
little more than the usual difficulty in winding up
his estate. The solicitors, however, had screwed
themselves up to the point of settling every-
'hing satisfactorily on a recent Wednesday.
Vidow Jordinson was coming into Melbourne per
warn, loaded with papers and prepared to fix
natters with her lawyers* when a waggon dashed
into the car and killed her almost instantly.
Friends of the family “at home” had scarcely
posted their expressions of .sorrow for the first
tragedy when the second,*-I’ragedy removed the
indy who was to receive Them. Truly a strange,
lad story of what may happen to a married couple
•n Australia. By these catastrophes one little
girl is left without parents or relatives in a strange
(and. She has now a decent bit of property in
tier own right, apparently, and if Purves, < j.C.
requires a modest substitute for his lost Kathleen
Macpherson here’s a chance.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
&
MW
I
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT^J
fvHv
-CNx
>'}
-■4--
\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. >
Address:— VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY *
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
I
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
and favourably known as a successful specialist
in all Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address Mrs. G. WOOD, 165 Berkley
Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
The Marvel of llie Age!
:r I* H 1
&
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cu res “ Bareoo Rot ’
and other, troubles. A
gift to Miners, Fanners
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale;
Australian Drug Co.
DEAF
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drums. Relieves noises,&c-
in the head. Cures Deafness;
Send for book and particu.
lars. Address the Sole
Agent : A. M. NAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne.
Drapery.
INDISPENSABLE FOR ANY LADY,
TEUFEL’S DIANA BELT.
Infinitely Superior to the Sanitary Towels.
Comfortable & Reliable.
No Discomfort ! No Chaping ! No Chill !
Sold by
Drapers, Ladies’ Outfitters, and Chemists.
Sole Agent for Australasia (wholesale only)—
P. F X OK,
9 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY;
314 ELINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting-, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breecla-I®aders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
oow3L®s dfe Dunn,
Guumakers,
407 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY. Send for List
G-. X3C- & SOKT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—SOLE AGENTS FOR—
HEATH, 605, 607, 000 Oxford Street, LONDON
m
G-ZEZKTTIjIEIN.IEIsr'S
OF' EVERY KIND.
HATS
Ladies'Club Straw Hats for Yachting, Boa tin iron Tenuis. |
Medical.
D. r A.PATERSON
I A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Em,
201
{
Macquarie Street North
(Opposite Parliament House)
Sydney.
)
201
PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
CHRONIC, [\jERV0US,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
burgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
3SVt.s idical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex*
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakeningdischarges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “ Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “ Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
0
patent
pills.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. (containing 50 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA.
Free Freacrlptious
Are to l>e found in the “I/iffht and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
tne healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. p ur .
?£ ?!! ers s h°uld_look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snunous,
[ROSE’S
THEONLY
RELIABLE
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. -A.. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
-fc.
KRUPP
Chain
6e\i
V
>5WR\
sd
m
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRLPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT,
all agree in praising that most scientific of Electro-Thera-
peutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is unrivalled.
Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The Nervous
are strengthened, and the Debilitated restored to perfect
health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an unfailing
cure for all Nervous, Sexual or Chronic Diseases, and is
GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, completely and
lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and
Chest, Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb
Ague, Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney
Complaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness,
Diseases of the Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weak-
ness, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy, Sperma-
torrhoea, Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart
Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied/is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatisealsocontainsfacsimiles of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried, our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
fW” The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GILVAMJ CHAIN BELT CO.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
Whisky
DRINK
“1111
limit”
WHISKY.
Acknoviecl'jcd to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
6b Margaret St.,
Business Announcements.
A
fds
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
!fls. to 14s. (j«l. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S POEPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
“THE LOUNGE HAIK-DRESSING CHAIR. 1 *
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
Sole Agents:
CRAIG «3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 A 08? George Street, Sydney.
ALLT’S
SPARKLING
ALE.
o
-s~
C
'O
<5-
<5
O
-*>
o
c*
Q 11, FO K A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarisi©!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. fgji
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
A AlTKt\, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Ask for
gv.^s
ROSS
la®
c
Bo
t§H|s
AGENTS;
Da Lissa & Phillips
Baraok St., Sydney
ri'HK BANK OB NEW ZEALAND
? SVDNKV BRANCHES :
04 PJTT STREET, and 538 GEOROE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £OOO,OOO
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
Tlie Bank has Agents in all Ihe principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can oiler special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can he ascertained on
application.
( '■ A. WILSON, Manager.


“ANTICUT A..”
*pOR Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers throughout the
.colony, or from H. LEICESTER, 89 Pitf.-street, Sydney.
Snecially appointed agent for N.S.W, for “Anticuta"
Company.
OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
i cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s wixlslsy.
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED at INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents: ... ... CURCIER, ADET Sc CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
HUDSON BROTHERS, LTD.,
• ;■ V.‘ S - .. '. , _ I ~ :
Clyde Works, Cranville, New South Wales.
r
-
m
.
mm
-
• '
NO DUTY.
AGRICULTURAL AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
IRRIGATION. —Complete Plants contracted for.
“ CLYDE ” WINDMILLS are made specially for the colony, and give better
results than any imported Mills. Ask for testimonials. Our large and
practical experience is at disposal of our clients.
■‘CLYDE" DAM-PLOUGHS and EARTH-SCOOPS in all sizes.
AGRICULTURE- —Our “CLYDE” PLOUGHS, from one-furrow to eight-
furrows, have won first place; and our new HARVESTING
MACHlNERY—Strippers, Winnowers, Binders and Mowers challenge
• comparison with any.
Please write for full Illustrated Catalogues
A
% > C U
<RAciA«OCK>
V* °
*■* 07^
V
■ - • .
AftiMiUBJllKIBBIJll.lll.ll!
7'//
m
Mi-}
m
l i '}!;>
i
i
i
i>. <1
■u}
J W'
I*
Ms
vu
K
(MX
mm
ALL HIS OWN FAULT,
Sober Party : “ Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky? Look at mel I
drink nothing else !”
Coupons with Every Case.
Huntington Mill.
Knowles’ Fnnips.
& LACY
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
J
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
&c., &o., &o. *
187 & 189 Clarence Street
3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers,
Wcstinslionse Engines.
m
•mi
■£»
m
'ii
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES. —4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING P*.*STJRE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes.
Double Fire Doors.. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street !■«•* Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
fds
Wolfe-street, Newcastle
'
Queen-street, Auckland.
s :
8 ;S
