

o
ri*
a
xA
&
i
ABSOLUTELY
'S COCOA
PURE THEREFORE BEST.
N’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLLBS IX SYDNEY.
HABJilSON & ATTWOOB, 251 deorge-st. Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
I=t. C3-. WATKINS &> GO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-Foil-
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS 7 & G-ERERAL IRORMORGERY.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
• FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
o
v
&
0.
O
X
*2*
XP
o
o
<0
&
&&) AlS>
Dog’s Head.
ALU & STOUT.
JULES RENARD Sc CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
•aoxaiaaoaj UdHOHX 'H
•ilawpilS StktrHC ‘i®»oh: paojxo
■-7-nrr, niiiiiiiiinli>»ni |llinml7 "
d'" •
ii
upt
W
p '—
mm
-j
\=£T
5r*,4
i/£S
.A
s^o
5 M“
K°
O •»
r~
xj
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
MESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
WALKER’S
I
ALLSO
'A
ALE,
JOHN WA.LKBR, 24: BOKT3D STREET, SYnKTEY.
Sole Agents
3XTe-w
Soutli Wales for Messrs. Clayton asxcJ
*'-» nttleworth.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
iln
-M
CLMUUMJI SHUULfc»IORIHU«COI.IOiZ/£|
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chafif-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power _-orn Shelters.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINKS WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. £ST Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
j/ & C. Ho wax-cl, Hitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 12—No. 665.]
[Saturday, Novemoer 12 1892.


PIER
BELT
Chain
TRADE
WEAK MEN.
“I>r. Fierce*. Galvanic
Chain Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and only perfect BODY
battery now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
PASTS and restores them to
Htaltli and Tigorons Strength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best]
Send for Pamphlet No. 2. Wash. H. Soul &Co.
Sydney, and Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents.
MAGNETIC ELAS. TRUSS Co. } Sao Fraaciseo, v.S.A.
f
ffimMDEl
d
m
f
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
JjhKALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
m advan-e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
MALTO-
QUINIA
WINE.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AS
A Cure for
AGUE,
DEBILITY,
INFLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
LAN
Wholesale Agents:
GE <sc THONEMAN,
MELBOI It X E.
df
CATALOGUES FREE
to any address in Australasia. Send for Catalogue
before purchasing Guns, Rifles, or Revolvers
elsewhere; best and cheapest guns in Australasia:
Rnghsh prices. All goods carriage paid to any
address in any of the Colonies.
Address—THE BRITISH GUN CO.,
84 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS ajstd INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROTAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON’S
STOUT
De LISSA
and PHILLIPS,
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney,
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
1,1 Eour Weeks by the use of
O s ni coro's
Lt
nW.H 1 bU * emed y for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
zt £ Pre S ed A nted SUCC€SS throughout the world.
£SSSS 3&SSS, •%£££*%,?£
tJtZa CaS 0/ xL 2 , S J ■?r four quantities in one /or j6s. Freight
A^etUsfdr H Au/r e f ' '«•>' of stamped addressed envelope
SU, '" Perry * C ° - » Ger ‘” de S "‘“
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional mearls, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FE RR E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Cmr MATTEI’S
MARVELLOUS
remedies,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEFs
Authorised Agent.
Address—The MANAGER,
Centra] Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATEINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden .
N. \ Lyre,” with Address in full.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
He treats with great success IRREGULARITIES.
AMENORRHCEA, BARRENNESS, STERILITY, LEU-
CORRHCEA and OTHER TROUBLES incidental to
women. He gives honest advice and the best of
medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
BETTER THAN GOLD
THE OR. TYSON SANATORIUM,
ST. KXLDA.
Patients Received for the Treatment of
OPIUM
tltllßlNNEss
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Owes guaranteed, No pain, discomfort or restriction
Private apartments and attendants if desired Dr,
Tyson s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case, and is the Only remedy which can be
taken at home with certainty of success, All
busmess strictly confidential For terms, etc call on
oraddress-H. E. PEATE, Secy., Cromwell’Build-
ings, Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used
fOR CON.SUMRTfON USE
Sons
iff*
w
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORIQ
Manufactory:
Cootamnndra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
.11
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid Magnesia,
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifies the System against the Shafts of Disease.
Tli© Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Sold Medals.
Superior to all Others!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
x x
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S —
X X
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s. 6d., 3s, 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents: Messrs. ELLIOTT Bros., Ltd
d
m
AO-
5/0r
tHa^
Best
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tiie Brighton of 3XTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment,' Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dini
bitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, sp '
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
. KllilMlllxrS'x'Eß Proprietress,
GROSYENOR HOTEL
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s, - - Double Room, Bs*
GRAHAM’S
PREMIER BRAN REBOOTS & SHOES,
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
“?RFMTFR f ” V °' tb , e f ubli ?’ th . ey havin f: completely established their claim to the title of
SOLD DIRECT TO THF WF qU^hty .. a v nd low P riee ' . Manufactured on the spot, and
u • K i T- U iHJIi W EARER—there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to oav Sintrla
Pairs MAILED to any part of at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carnage Pafd
Try Them.
DEPOTS— 32 O George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory —37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
Box 1034, G.P.O. Telephone 972.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Seeds and Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-BOOMS: ~
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
Jtho at London, Melbourne and (Edinburgh.
SPOONS & FORKS.
W. M. & Sons have a magnificent selection of
their own manufactured goods always on
view at their Show-rooms, suitable for
SPORTS, PRESENTATIONS,
CLUB, SHIP,
HOTEL and FAMILY USE.
TABLE CUTLERY.
ff. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver end Electro-pleted Seeds end Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION!
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS :
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE,
S so at London, Sydney and Edinburgh.


In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfk’S Schnapps. It is
the best invigorator out.
When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
m.
t
Soap.
m
yrs.
"s
m
<v
m&.
Va
\
m
.-r.vir
'Ut
HSS^=S^3aSjg
M*
s
o
Tales of the Early Days.
No. XIV.—The Paying-Out of Constable
Crake.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
BY PRICE WARUNG
There is a great Australian family which
boasts a recently invented shield and crest. The
bearings are described in “Burke” with a rich
luxuriance of heraldic jargon. Truthfully, they
should be a woman, pendant, vert* on a gallows
sinister, sable. This is a story of the bravest deed
eVet done by a member of that family; which
deed being, what it was, is not borne from genera-
tion to generation on the perfumed breath of
tradition. The younger members are taught to
look with a reverence almost religions upon the
inch of ribbon and the fragment of parchment
which symbolise some ridiculous Imperial “honor,”
conferred for Heaven alone knows what upon one
of its later chieftains, but the deed which removes
their “colonial founders” from the ruck of
humanity they are never taught. The people who
should teach them are ashamed of it. Which is
human history. The great deeds of the world are
the Unhonoured ones,
# * *
Hyde Park Barracks, Sydney, in the
Early Twenties. The buildings stood then much
as they are to-day, where they form Chancery
Square. There is, however, a slight difference in
their tenants. Then, they consisted of persons
who had fallen beneath the lash of the law, Now,
they are the persons who wield that lash. The
difference between the respective classes of tenants
extend to their manners. Between the coarseness
of speech and gesture of the convicts and the
polished blackguardism of the present-day fol-
lowers of the LaW there lies the chasm created by
two generations of culture, In morals, however,
there is no divergence of character.
A Wall, 10ft. Gin, high, separated at the
time of our story the barrack enclosure, on
the south and west, from the open, un-
fenced space called indiscriminately thp. Race-
course, the Parade-ground, and Hyde Bark;
on the north from the General Hospital en-
closure and the pleasure grounds of the Go-
vernor. The entrance was from the west, the
gates being guarded by two lodges 12 feet square
—the one on the right being appropriated to the
clerks, the other to those indispensable accessories
of the System, the “freed” constables. Other
offices and minor buildings formed then, as they
form now, a lining to the walls, clasping, as it
were, in their embrace, the principal building.
This was the main barrack. It deserves a niche of
distinction in architectural history, for it was the
first building, not in Australia alone, but in the
British Empire, arranged specifically for the
classification of prisoners according to the degrees
of their Criminality. Governor Macquarie, if for
no other reason, deserves to be honoured in that
he attempted to solve a problem which English-
speaking legislatures everywhere grow daily elo-
quent about while leaving unsolved. If delay
in the work of social reform be playing the game
of the devil, what a capable partner he has in the
English-speaking legislator!
The barrack was of three storeys. On each
floor there were four rooms. A passage, 12 feet
wide, ran the length of the building. Two rooms
—those facing west —were 65 feet long; the other
two were 35 feet long. The breadth of each room
was 19 feet.
In each of the six long rooms 70 men slept. In
each of the six small ones, 35. As a rule, that is.
But one January night, in the Early Twenties,
No. 5 room, the small one on the east-end of the
upper floor, contained 33 men—and one girl. She
was the foundress of the great Australian family
aforesaid.
* * #
The grass-cutting gang had, with their cox-
swains, duly reported themselves about 5.30 in the
afternoon. They were rather later than usual,
but the wind had been blowing strongly against
the boats as they bore down heavily laden with
grass for the Government live-stock from the
Parramatta River, and such of their crews as
were not privileged to lodge in the town—that is
to say, some twenty-one or two out of the forty
who constituted the gang, were accordingly half-
an-hour “beyond time” in reporting at “night
muster.” But the System, surprising to say, had
not endeavoured to control the tides and winds —
had, indeed, made no provision for such an emer-
gency as had now risen, and did not, therefore,
punish the gang by stopping their rations. All it
did was to give them their food cold when the
mustering overseer had ended.
“ Cox’n Nicholson—crew right ?”
“Yes, sir! Arnold—Russell—Green—Dixon —
Hawkins—King !”
As he called his crew, the overseer ticked the
names off and ordered them to pass to mess.
“ Cox’n Wilmott —yours ?”
“Yes, sir!” And the like routine was
observed.
“ Cox’n Tribe —yours ?”
“Yes, sir! Hume —Evans—Grant, father —
Grant, son—Dillon —Lee!”
“Right! Pass on !”
“ Beg parding, sir—Rut I don’t think as Grant,
father, isn’t well, sir!” The crew, shuffling off,
paused to wait response to this reference to a fact
they had all been made aware of that day.
“Ain’t you well, Grant?” the overseer asked.
The old man, who as yet was not so old, was of
medium height, which appeared the less because
of the stoop that spoke of his use of the sickle as
a grass-cutting tool. His features were those of a
weakling, the cheeks had tumbled in and the chin
fell away to a point, in the fashion which, though
the man were dumb, would convey an accent of
servility. The fellow was a typical servant, with-
out a mind or a tongue ora backbone of his own.
When, in his free days, “ Master ” paid him his
wages, “ Master ” owned him body and soul. And
now the System owned him, and he was abjectly
servile to it. When interrogated, he did not know
whether lie would please or offend the Overseer by
telling the truth, although it was patent he was
ill. He was trembling ; “ Grant, son,” held him
up, otherwise he would have fallen.
“Are you ill, Grant? Can’t you answer?”
“Grant, father,” looked at his son. That was
his way always. It was “ Grant, son,” who ever
answered for the old man—did some of his work
for him—cared for him.
“ Yes, he’s very bad, Mr. Grove. I’m afraid
he’s had a stroke, sir.”
Grove, the Mustering-Overseer, turned to the
Coxswain.
“ Are you sure he ain’t a-shammin’, Tribe ? ”
“ No, sir—l mean, sir, as am sure he isn’t sham-
ming. I thought as ’twas a kin’ o’ stroke myself,
sir ! ”
“ Too ill to wait for mornin’ doctor ?”
“ Yess’r, I’m afraid, sir !”
“ What d’ you say, Grant, son? ”
“ I can’t make him out at all, sir—l never saw
him like this afore ! I’ll work double to-morrow,
sir, it you’ll let him go to the horspital to-night.”
“ Was he much short to-day ?”
The daily task of each man in a cutting-gang
was forty bundles, say a hundredweight of grass
per day. Barney Williams, Governor’s coxswain,
checked the quantity nightly.
Coxswain Tribe looked around at his men.
Should he tell? Grove seemed in a pretty good
temper to-night, but there was never any telling
how long a subordinate officer’s amiability would
last. Perhaps if he told the truth it would be all
right—perhaps all wrong. However, he risked it.
“He didn’t do nothing at all to-day, sir. The
coves all helped him, besides doin’ their own
whack,”
“ Were any of them short?”
“ No, sir; Mr. Williams passed the lot.”
“ All right, then. But no more oodgering o’
that sort is to be allowed. If the man’s sick, let
him report sick afore he goes. An’ if he goes, he’s
got to do his task. An’ if there’s time for the
others to do his job besides their own, there’s
time to do more for Government. We’ll see if the
grass-cutters can’t make up sixty bundles a-day,
instead of forty. An’ you’re sure Grant, father,
isn’t shamrain’ Abram, Tribe?”
“Yes, sir—quite.”
“Fall out Grant, father, for hospital—an’ pass
to mess the rest. March !”
The gangers saluted and passed to their mess-
room. This was a long room on the southern side
of the enclosure, the kitchen separating it from a
similar room where the “town gangs” messed.
And “Grant, father ” stood, or rather staggered,
solitary, save for the Overseer, in the mustering
space by the gateway. He looked dazedly after
the gangers, for with them went “Grant, son.”
The younger man would have stayed had he
dared, but there was never any certainty about
the System’s methods of interpretation A reluct-
ance to obey, which might have been prompted by
a pure filial regard, might have been construed as
insubordination. Had not a fellow been haled
from that very yard to the neighbouring triangle
—a statue of “Albert the Good” now ennobles
the ensanguined spot!—for marching to the dor-
mitory with his right foot first, when the order
had been given by the ex-soldier overseer to lead
off with the left? 8o “ Grant, son ’’—not “ Grant,
second,” that would have meant a man of the
same name, but no kinsman; nor “Grant, the
younger,” for that would have signified a younger
brother, whose elder was on the same muster-roll —
Grant, son, moved to his food. But it choked
him. For, almost for the first time since they had
been hustled from the hulk at Plymouth to the
convict-ship, father and son were separated. With
the ship’s indent had come a memorandum-order
signed by a Very Great Personage indeed, request-
ing Governor Macquarie to, as far as possible,
keep father and son together. And Mr. Secretary
Campbell, who since 1810 had personally super-
vised every “musteron arrival,” had ordered that
the two Grants should be placed in the same gang.
And Mr. Campbell was, to the official intellect, a
much greater man than the Personage, for he was
present and the Personage was twenty thousand
miles away. Did Mr. Campbell know the precise
relation to “Grant, father,” of the other Grant ?
We do not think he did ; but the Personage did ;
of that we are convinced.
How, an impatient reader may here ask, could
Mr. Campbell who, as said above, personally mus-
tered the convicts, upon landing, remain ignorant
of the relationship if the Grants were respectively
specified as father and son ? Wait.
* * *
There were two parties made up for the
hospital daily—one at 8 a.m., and one on night
muster. If a man took seriously ill between 5.80
p.m. and 8 a.m., it was a highly irregular pro-
ceeding on his part, and one distinctly to be dis-
countenanced. Therefore, the System would not
provide for his removal between these hours. Old
Grant, however, being wise, had made his illness
manifest in time to be sent with the “ night lot.”
And accordingly, a freed constable dragged him,
not unkindly, to the Rum Hospital next door.
There we shall leave him. He concerns us no
more—directly.
# # #
At ten o’clock, the night-constable on
duty at the entrance-gate—he had two watchmen
selected from the prisoners to help him—passed
up into No. 5 dormitory. The door leading into
the courtyard was not locked, nor were the doors
of the several rooms. This was one of the eccen-
tricities of the period for which there is no
accounting. As a rule, there was a superfluity of
locks and bolts, but Hyde Park Barracks, from
1819 to 1826 were never locked at night. In ’26,
a plot to make a sortie on the sleeping town was
discovered, and then the System invested
<£l3 10s. 9d. in padlocks of new and impregnable
design. Which were all picked within a week.
But this is by the way.
The night-constable, Thomas Crake, transport
per the Three Bees on that fatal trip when the
mortality was so great as to shock even the
indurated sensibilities of a British statesman,
passed from the court-yard into No. 5. Up two
flights of stairs went he, ghoul-like in the crawling
pat-pat of his list-slippered feet. And at the
door of No. 5 he stopped and touched the dozing
watchman of the room on the shoulder. “ Grant’s-
son—wake up, Grant’s-son. The old man’s a-
slippin’ ’is wind ! ’E’s got to go ter Horspital,
quick!”
The watchman rubbed his eyes and saluted. It
was only a constable who stood by, but his
fine reverence for authority, coupled with a pro-
found distaste for lashes, suggested the salute.
And so he made it before he moved between the
hammocks to rouse “ Grant, son.”
From floor to roof ran stanchions of timber —a
row against the walls, another row seven feet dis-
tant towards the middle of the room. Across the
stanchions were nailed rails or battens, and from
these were suspended the hammocks. Twenty
inches of width space was allowed to each ham-
mock. For some that narrow bed held a fiercer
hell than even the System maintained outside, for
their consciences stirred malevolently even in their
dreams. For others, again, the hammock was
Paradise. These latter drifted back in their
visions to the scenes of innocence; to the spots
untainted by travail of spirit or by sense of injus-
tice or wrong-doing. For a brief space they forgot.
There were others still —some who were awake ;
who never seemed to sleep ; who were perpetually
crying in these night hours after their lost youth
*The last woman hanged in Sydney before the cessation
of transportation was attired in' a green dress.


Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
W olfjo’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Pure, Palatable, Perfect
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Soothing and invigorating
Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
f
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
m
tfllj
a
I
Y/?
wt
m
545
A'/^ -
>////■
7
s* -
fP !
1
—the youth perhaps they had never known.
Surely there is a heaven to give some people the
youth they never knew here !
Among these last was young Grant. Amid the
animals who snored off their fatigue, amid the
more delicate souls which sighed remorse or
laughed in their sleep, young Grant was awake.
He could not sleep—prescient, perhaps, of impend-
ing trouble, slumber refused to touch his eyelids.
Before the watchman had reached his hammock
he had started up. In this ward —No. 5 was
good conduct dormitory—it was unusual for the
watchman to patrol after silence-bell; and as he
heard the muffled steps between the sleepers, he
knew instinctively he was wanted. In the same
instant that the watchman muttered his name, he
spoke.
“Grant, son?” The full name slipped off the
tongue, mechanically alert by frequent repetition.
“Me ; yes, I’m awake, Butchy. Is it the—old
man ?”
“Yes, sonny—Grant, father, be bad. So Con-
st’ble Crake, he ses.”
The young fellow leapt out of the hammock
instantly.
“Yer’ll get into it, a-sleepin’in yer ducks an’
shirt, some time, my lad, if you don’t care.”
But the words passed unheeded. “Grant, son,”
was at the door.
“Oh, Mr Crake .”
“W’y don’t yer s’lute?” growled the officer,
tetchy even in that hour, and though he stood on
the verge of an infamy, as to a fancied slight.
The lad saluted. And then, quivering with an
alarm he did not try to disguise, he pressed hia
enquiry.
“Mr. Crake, is father —is he worse?”
’long, and I’ll tell yer !”
* * *
Down the stairs they passed, into the
courtyard. As they paused at the last step Con-
stable Crake clutched the waist of young Grant
and said :
“I know all ’bout yer, m’ lady I I’ve bin
waitin’ for this chance for a long time!”
“Oh God !—but Mr. Crake, my father —is he
worse, is he dyin’
“ your father! Think I care anythin’
’b6ut the ol’ lag ?”
Young Grant tried to wrest the clasped arm
free.
“No yer don’t! Yer’ve to lis’en to wot I’ve
got ter say.”
“ Is —he—worse ?”
“ I dunno, an’ don’t care ! ’E can die as quick
as lightning for all I care. It’s on’y yer as I care
for, m’ beauty !” He flung his free arm round the
neck of the other and kissed young Grant’s
cheeks.
“Leave go ! leave go ! or I’ll cry out!”
“No yer won’t, m’ beauty! If there’s any
public row ’bout this the ’Thorities ’ll ’ave ter
take it up, an’ then, m’ beauty, yer’ll all be in for
it—th’ brother yer tried ter save by cornin’ out in
his place, an’ yer father fer lyin’ ’bout yer, an’
yerself fer a-deceivin’ of Guv’munt!”
“ O, God !”
“’E can’t ’elp yer! There ain’t no God out
’ere—we all left God be’ind us in th’ Channel,”
“What d’ye —want? ’ Young Grant was
gasping.
“Ah, oh, so an’ pretty’s a-comin’ to reason, is
she? That’s right! I’ll be a friend to’er then.
An’ that’s all I want, ter be a friend to yer ? Yer
understand, don’t yer, m’ beauty?”
The lamp by the gateway was flashing a quaver-
ing beam into the courtyard. By it Mr. Crake
saw her lips quiver, but he could not hear words.
They were an assent though—at least, he reasoned
so.
“That’s right, m’ pretty. Now, yer just got
ter come to me three times a week, while yer ol’
man’s in horspital. An’ ’e ain’t a-goin’ter come
out in an ’urry either. I heard the report ter-night—
he may live five years, hut’ll never do work agen—
’e’s goin’ looney ”
“Oh ! ” The cry of smitten love rang
through the stillness. But there was no echo, the
distantly receding footsteps of the patrol marched
down by the watch-house, and answered the
challenge of the sentry there by “ All’s well! ”
Crake stopped her mouth with his hand.
“Shout agen, yer ’ussy, and I’ll blow th’ gaff
termorrer on yer all—an’ th’ Gov’nor can’t but
’elp then but get that b’utiful brother of yourn
rested arter all. An’ yer dad won’t be too looney
to flog—nobody’s too looney to flog. An’ as for
yer, wot yer refuse me, wot I ax perlite like, yer’ll
’ave ter give ter everybody that axes—beaks an’
sodgers, an’ constables. They ain’t goin’ ter let a
purty piece o’ goods like yer slip through their
’ands. An’ ’tis better for yer ter ’av one friend ’n
not fifty. An’ I don’t l’ll marry yer, but I
don’t mind a-tryin’ ter get yer ’signed ter me. An’
then yer’ll be in clover, m’ missy !” He stopped
to take breath, and to emit an anticipatory chuckle
at the sensation which would be caused at the
transformation of “Grant, son,” into “Tom
Crake’s ’signed ’ooman !” But some laughter is
premature.
* * #
Before his cackle ended, the girl had
recovered something of that presence of mind and
that readiness of resource which had enabled her,
in the first instance, to deceive the hulk-keeper at
Plymouth as she substituted herself for the twin-
brother, who was wanted at home to keep the
mother and the younger children from starving—
and then, for the succeeding fifteen months, to
have evaded discovery by ship-mates, by con-
stables, and by fellow-convicts. And with that
restoration to self-command, she revealed a sudden
coyness.
“Yes, Mr. Crake! I see what you mean!
An’, o’ course, it ’ud be better ter have only—one
friend—than to be—but you’ll keep th’ secret,
Mr. Crake ?”
“O’ course, m’ pretty ! I don’t allow no other
chaps to sit down in my nest!”
“Then, Mr. Crake, you can—do as you like-
to-morrow night!”
“No, you don’t!” He swore a great oath.
“To-night or—l’ll peach termorrer.”
“I’ll swear to you, Mr. Crake—l’ll swear to
you I’ll give myself to you to-morrow night. In
the mess-room—my week for night messing begins
to-morrow, an’ I take the key an’ give it to Mr.
Grove. An’ I’ll not lock the —door, y’ see—only
pretend to.”
And Crake, whose conduct this night was the
fruit of an impulse suddenly originated by the
news communicated in the gossip of the guard-
room of old Grant’s illness, was reluctantly com-
pelled to admit there was a wisdom in “Young
Grant’s ” suggestion. But he swore, with fearful
oaths, that he would not only disclose her secret
but would drag her to the gutters if she failed in
her appointment.
She tendered him a kiss in proof of her sin-
cerity, and was mounting the stairs again when a
thought struck her, and quickly she ran back.
“ Mr. Crake, Mr. Crake !” she half-whispered,
half-cried. He, nearing the lodge, heard her and
returned.
“ Yes? —so yer thought better o’ it ?”
She took no heed, but went on with her ques-
tion.
“Mr. Crake, I’ll—give you another kiss now —
two, or as many as you want —if—if—ye’ll only
tell me how —you found me out?”
“Found yer out, m’ dear? W’y. I suspected
—l’m an ol’ searcher at the Factory,* m’beauty,
an’ yer ain’t th’ first ’ooman by ’arf-a-dozen who’s
come out for ’er man or ’er father, or ’er brother
—an’ w’en I suspected yer, wot d’ye think I did ?”
The girl was silent; but he laughed long,
though subduedly,
“ W’y, I gave yer ol’ man a bit o’ bacoy now an’
then- an’ ’e peached on yer at last! ” Again he
laughed.
“My father—l’ll never believe it! ”
“ Oh, but he did, m’ beauty ! An’ now for them
kisses. , . .
* * *
"When, the next morning but one, the
cooks entered the mess-room, they solved a trifling
difficulty which had harassed the convict watch-
men at the gate. What had become of Constable
Crake? He had left the lodge about midnight
and had not returned.
The cooks discovered why he had not returned.
He lay on one of the mess-tables with his throat
cut.
* In 1815, male constables were employed as searchers
at the Female Factory, Parramatta.
During one whole week last term no
senior counsel held a brief in N.S.W. Supreme
Court. This is attributed to an attempt at fru-
gality on the part of litigants,
A misguided man named Darcy wandered
into the kitchen at St. George’s Presbytery,
Carlton, Melb., the other day, and after taking
off all his clothes he squatted in a corner. He
subsequently explained that his clothes were red-
hot and he had taken them off to cool. He also
believed that the devil was after him, but thought
he would be safe near the church. He was
remanded for medical ti’eatment. There can be
no question about the mental condition of the man
who thinks to avoid the devil by going to church.
Colonel “Fire-low” Price is an aggressive
aspirant for the office of Victorian Chief Com-
missioner of Police. When the Victorian
Government want to commit suicide, they had
better appoint to the Chief Commissionership this
bumptious swashbuckler, whose action during the
maritime strike has damned him for all time with
the common people. Price started in life with the
heavy handicap, from a democratic point of view,
of his father’s official reputation, and during
strike-time he voluntarily added to that burden.
The attitude of Chief Commissioner Chondey (by
the way, the handsomest, as he is one of the most
humane men in the Victorian public service) was
exactly the reverse, and the good relations existing
between the workmen and the police formed one of
the few pleasing incidents of a pitiful period.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, <£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
There’s a Bunk in the Humpy.
THE SPLITTER’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The bush was too lonely—the life was too slow
And, Johnny, my son, to the city would go ;
He knew that his father was lonely and grey,
And he might have gone there without running
away.
There’s a bunk in the humpy—a glass on the shelf
Which have never been used since he used them
himself,
And that bunk in the humpy will stand till he
comes
To his father’s old hut in the depth of the gums.
’Tis true that my temper was soured long ago,
But old men have sorrows that sons do not know ;
I “jawed” him one day when my temper was
stirred,
An’ he left his old father with never a word.
There’s a bunk in the humpy, &c.
Did he think it was kind—did he think it was
right
To the lonely old man in the humpy that night?
Who sat with the sound of the rain in his ears,
And thought till his eyes ran a banker with tears?
There’s a bunk in the humpy, &c.
His mattress and pillow and bluey are there—
He’ll never sleep sounder on feathers, I’ll swear,
Or eat better stews than I warmed by the blaze
’Neath the old chimney gutter on cold, rainy days
There’s a bunk in the humpy, &c.
An’ should he come back when the old man is out
He never need linger a moment in doubt :
He’ll know where the key of the padlock is hid,
An’ there’s grub in the gin-case for lifting the lid.
There’s a bunk in the humpy, &c.
Sept., ’92.
HENRY LAWSON.
Two hundred lunatics were added to the
population of Woogaroo Asylum (Q.) last year.
New rum ? Or sunstroke ?
“Dipso.” writes ;
Dear Bulletin,— You have been “had” over the par.
pretending to embody a letter received recently by a
N.S.W. gold-mine secretary. It is an old wheeze. Your
contributor has amended it a little, but I had that old
chestnut in Adelaide Lantern as far back as ’81; and
even then it was stolen from an exchange.— The Dipso-
maniac.
Which is a somewhat remarkable letter to receive,
in view of the following statement just made in
Bathurst (N.S.W.) National Advocate
The Bulletin boasts that it never scissors without
acknowledgment. Well, the following is not acknow-
ledged, and it is merely a copy, bar the line commencing
“ bismuth ” and ending “ trace,” of a par. written by the
present writer three years ago in a Sydney paper that was
certainly not The Bulletin.
Then follows the same old par. Have we come to
this? Have we lived to be accused of plagiarising
Nelson P. Whitelocke ?


KIS
111
rpHE cleai est Skin, fi ee ft om pimple, spot or blemish, the softest, whitest hands and shapely
i- nails, the most luxuriant hair and cleanest scalp are produced by the celebrated CJllticura
Soap, beyond all comparison the most effective skin-purifying and beautifying soap in th e
world, as well as the purest and sweetest of toilet and nursery soaps. It is
the only preventive of pimples, blackheads, blotches, red, rough and oily
skin, because the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores,
the cause of most complexional disfigurations, as well as baby blemishes.
For red, rough hands, shapeless nails, itching, burning palms and painful
finger ends, it is absolutely unrivalled. It clears the scalp and hair of
crusts, scales and dandruff, soothes and heals irritated and itching surfaces,
stimulates the hair follicles, and supplies the roots with energy and
nourishment. Hence, for the prevention of facial blemishes, for giving a
brilliancy and freshness to the complexion, for softening and whitening
the hands, and for cleansing the scalp and invigorating the hair, it is
simply incomparable,
Cuticura Soap derives its remarkable purifying, beautifying proper,
ties from Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, but so delicately are they
blended with the purest of toilet and nursery soap stocks, that the result
is incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while
rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet
and nursery soaps. Because of its delicate medication it is the most sooth-
ing, cooling and purifying application for simple irritations, rashes, tan,
sunburn, freckles and bites and stings of insects. Sale greater than the
combined sales of all other skin and complexion soaps.
How to Cure Skin and Scalp Diseases
More great cures are daily made by the Cuticura Remedies than all other skin and blood remedies combined. They afford
relief in the most torturing and disfiguring eruptions, humors and diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because
most speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail. Everything about the Cuticura
Remedies invites confidence. They are absolutely pure, and agreeable to the most refined and sensitive. They
are adapted to all ages, and may be used on the youngest infant. They have in every quarter
of the civilized world. People in every walk of life believe in them, use them and recommend them.
In a word, they are the greatest skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor remedies of modern times,
Cuticura Remedies are.sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, 50 cents; Cuticura Soap,
an exquisite skin purifier and beautifier, 25 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, and greatest of Humor
Remedies, Idol. Prepared by the Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U.S.A.
“All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 diseases, 50 illustrations and 100 testimonials, a book of
priceless value to every sufferer, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
V
&
&
2
2
r
m
Ml
-,=s
X
df
d
fd
f


NATIONAL MUTUAL
05
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
PITT STREET, S Y333NTE3Y.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,000
ZBOINTTJSIES
AND
TJIEriDOTJIBTIBID SEOtTRx^
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretaet
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
d
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manaqeejor Australia— T. J. IVEacWilliaxu., 297 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
Bass’ Bale Ale
mi
LKADEM/M^
Guinness’ Extra Stout
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
ARB GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY. TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stea m Engines, Boilers, Grets Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
S3T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery • you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
“WILLIAMSON -
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE
BOROUGLH OF REDFER KT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &c.
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
LADIES.— Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fix them up equal to new,
• n> tir ■ 1 ■■
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
Perdrlau dfc Co,
RUBBER HOSE - for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GrEORGrE _ STREET, _ SYOKTEY.
Cleavers*
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to toe given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
PELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO. .. ... SYDNEY.
T\H. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
J-r JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
INSTANTANEOUS
HAND CAMERAS.
m- SEND FOB ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
[
ms
:
MONTHLY CIRCULAR POSTED ON APPLICATION.
BAKER and ROUSE,
Photographic Stock Importers,
375 OEOnaE STREET, SYDNEY (next A.J.S. Bank)
—AND AT —
256 COLLINS STREET ... ... ... MELBOURNE
69 BUNDLE STREET ... ... ... ADELAIDE.
46 QUEEN STREET ... ... ... BRISBANE.
Wild. Australia!
■'Wild Queensland I
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland”
—BY—
. 3MI IB "I" O 3XT,
ILLUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer, called the “ Terrible Rite.”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia.
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia —Hunting, Fighting,
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “Boorool” (Bora) ceremonies.
The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
WM (Appear in Brisbane, (Sydney, (Melbourne, Adelaide, (Tasmania, and $.|,
I3ST 3DECEM1BBR.:- —BRISBANE OPERA HOUSE, DECEMBER $
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OE THE WORLD!
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the moat beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SATWELL & CO.
depot
MARVEL
5^0
A
£f0fiCE
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney-
IglT MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
• . / t
.'..if V J'.
■
---
wimm
II ■ l
giijj
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and roo st to
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfprt and attend 0
visitors. tST Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day. Special Rates for Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - . Proprietors-
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the establish® 611 >•


The Bulletin
Vcb 12~Ko. 665.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1892.
Price, 6d,
Pill A PfNNV IN THE SLOT
aqcl Sonjc.
Polite literature
List of ia/orks
Stolen fjoment3 Sir H P
j3EAUT£OUS TERRORIST
nurerjUßs of the St/?fah
FEDERATION POEF] - LADy JERSEY
jJnroßy of Australian bankinc, Coy my
P|EN \it (,0T AUTOGRAPHS Or
N bTV (httSARO TO DATE
Mew I HAVE BORROWED MQNFy OF -6^
/S. Reward vOul be paid pon the
DETECTION OF ANY ONE FOUND TAMPERING
WITH THIS MACHINE .ph Rehw«cik.
CHICAGO EXHIBITION SINECURES.
The time has arrived for checking the emigration of the N.S.W. population to Chicago as appointees of the Government. THE BULLETIN suggests the above
labour-saving apparatus, for instance, to take the place of the proposed official Distributor of Literature. It could go as freight, thus saving a first-class fare,
it would require no salary, and it wouldn’t eat anything.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for tin Australian.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... 0 Q
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0116
Quarterly... ... ... ... 06 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required ,
•which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tim Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In'that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
■in the hands of our carriers, with whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag TOGO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with :Is. Id.
added for postage.
No papers xvill be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no except ion to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Xruaa Edition
—OF—
“THE BULLETIN,”
To be Published 15th December, 1892,
WILL CONTAIN MORE THAN DOUBLE THE
USUAL NUMBER OF PAGES.
A Beautifully-Coloured Humorous Double-page Supple-
ment by PHIL. MAY,
“MEASURING THE BABY"
Original Stories in Prose and Verse specially pro-
vided for The Bulletin by Leading Writers in Aus-
tralasia, among whom may be mentioned the late
Barcroft Boake and Messrs. V. J. Daley, Edmund
Fisher, “The Banjo,” E. Favenc, “Price Waning,”
Henry Lawson, E. Dyson, “The Dipsomaniac,” "Ah
Ohee,” W. L’Estrange, etc.
Profusely Illustrated by Livingston Hopkins, Geo.
R. Ashton, F. Mahoney, Percy Spence, etc. Despite
the great cost, the whole of the contributions—artistic
and literary will be genuinely original, and not
borrowed from English or foreign publications.
T^^Xzlld&TL.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 1892.
The Impotence of Parliaments.
In the opinion of this House the powers of Cabinet
Governments have increased, are increasing, and ought
to be diminished.— Motion by Rose, M.L A., in New
South Wales Assembly.
The above motion, which is stranded some-
where—it matters very little where—on the
notice-paper of the New South Wales Assembly,
is a somewhat badly-expressed effort to draw
attention to one of the greatest difficulties of
the present so-called system of representative
government. Mr. Rose’s proposition may
never be heard of again to any useful pur-
pose, because under the existing scheme of
administration a private member’s motion may
remain on the business paper of the House till
the world grows old without the slightest
chance of its coming on for discussion, or with-
out the discussion —should there be one—lead-
ing to any*results ; but all the same it expresses
the great evil of Australian politics. The
system of parliamentary government—though
hardly anybody seems to be aware of the fact—
is as dead as anything well can be. Parliament
does not govern any longer ; it never did
govern to any great extent, but now any fleet-
ing vestige of authority which it once possessed
is utterly gone. The nation—alleged to be the
last court of appeal and the one whose decision
is absolutely final—does not govern either. The
Cabinet has all the authority which exists, and
that, despite Mr. Rose’s dictum, is not so much
as is generally supposed. Tt is an oligarchy
tempered by the dead weight of chaos; a species
of seven-headed autocrat, whose tyranny is
limited by the fact that he has a leaden load
permanently attached to him, so that he can
get round fast enough to be obnoxious, though
not fast enough to be absolutely deadly. The
Ministry, in fact, is blocked by the loquacity of
the Legislature, and but for that it would be
practically absolute. The other elements of the
“ Constitution ” are mere ciphers.
* # *
In the first place, the nation has practically
no voice in the selection of a Government. It
is graciously allowed to choose between Pakkes
and Dibbs; or between Moreuead, the squatter
and cheap-labour man, and Tomuel Griffil-
wkaith, the two-headed slave-dealer ; or
between Shiels, the humble flunkey of the
rascally bankers of Melbourne, and the fat-
headed Duncan Gillies. It can’t gel rid of
them, for when once the “representative”
political incubus becomes reasonably ancient
and deep-rooted, then even if ninety-nine con-
stituencies reject him, there is always a hun-
dredth one somewhere which sends him back to
the Legislature. There is abundant provision
for putting the old party hacks into the House,
and no provision worth mentioning for keeping
them out. The country can’t dictate their
policy, for it has to answer in one word —
yes or no—on forty or fifty questions at
once, and the situation is just the same as that
of a jury which has to decide simultaneously on
a case of murder, one of bigamy, another of
trespass, a problem concerning a bottomry
bond, a brutal assault, and an action for breach-
of-promise of marriage and adultei’ation of
sugar, combined with a land title problem, two
divorces, and the settlement of the list of con-
tributories in six broken banks and a building
society of which the books have been lost.
And if this same jury had simply to give one
answer, in the negative or the affirmative,
covering all these problems at once; and it
couldn’t give damages in the breach-of-promise
suit without hanging the alleged homicide, and
granting both divorces, and making all the
bank shareholders liable for calls, and finding
for the plaintiff in the land dispute, and
deciding that the sugar was adulterated, it
would exactly express the situation. There-
fore, the country, being unable to give expres-
sion to its opinions in any coherent shape,
simply hands over the whole business of
governing to a certain number of politicians,
and abdicates its own authority utterly.
* ** *
Then the Legislature, under exactly the same
kind of compulsion, proceeds to abdicate its
authority in similar fashion. In the average
Parliament there are almost always two lead-
ing fossils who maintain their positions because
tbere is absolutely no certain means of getting
rid of them until they are dead. Each repre-
sents a party, and each party is afraid to depose
its own particular fossil, lest he and his two
or three personal followers should immediately
join the other side as a matter of vengeance.
Politics has no fury like a deposed fossil. Also
the great axiom of party politics is that it is
unsafe to swap fossils while crossing a stream,
and the party, under present conditions, is
always crossing a stream and never getting
over. The Governor—an irresponsible indivi-
dual over whom the nation has no control—
“sends for” the one of these two public
burdens which has the biggest following, and
he thereupon proceeds to form a Ministry at his
own discretion without consulting the House or
the country. If the House doesn’t like any one
Minister out of the team it has the option of
either putting up with him, or discharging the
whole crowd and going back on its political
principles at the same time —as for the country
it has practically no option at all until the next
general election, and even then it has none
worth mentioning. If it adopts the latter
course the Governor thereupon sends for the
other incubus, and he forms a Cabinet in exactly
the same fashion, and if the House doesn’t like
that Cabinet either it has the blessed privilege
of going back to the previous lot—the nation at
large not having any privilege in the case
whatever. When the House has decided which
of the two evils it will endure, the Ministry
presents its “policy ” and the Legislature must
either accept it whole or discharge the Ministry ;
if it kicks against even one item the “ constitu-
tional ” result is that it must go back to the
other gang of placemen, and swallow their
policy whole, under pain of another general
stoppage of the legislative machine.
* # #
In a House of perhaps 120 members the
seven (or thereabouts) who, without the per-
mission of the nation or anybody else, have been
constituted as the Ministry, draw up all
measures of importance, and the other 113
accept them under protest. They are not
allowed even to make any important improve-
ments ; that can only be effected, in most cases,
by defeating the Cabinet in a division, where-
upon that body resigns, and both the original
measure and the improvements are lost in the
confusion, and another seven or eight bosses
come into power and make the Assembly accept
their proposals whole in the same autocratic
fashion. The so-called Legislature isn’t allowed
to legislate at all. It exists only to patch
Ministerial measures, which it isn’t allowed
even to patch effectually; and to butcher
Governments, which it isn’t allowed to do effec-
tually either, for when it has killed the last
Government, then the one that was killed
before rises from its grave and goes on its
nefarious way as of old, until it is solemnly
murdered over again, whereupon the other one
resurrects in its turn ; and so on practically ad
infinitum. In a House of 113 private members and
seven Ministers, the 113 are generally allowed
one night per week on an average for the trans-
action of “private business,” and the seven
occupy all the rest of the time. Under these
circumstances no private measure of any im-
portance is ever passed unless the Cabinet
happens to approve of-it. If the Cabinet does
not approve of it then it is judiciously shuffled
down to the bottom of the business paper, or
otherwise blocked, and so effective is this pro-
cess that the same proposition may loom up
kke a ghost every session for a quarter of a
century, and be no nearer accomplishment at
the end of that period than it was at the
beginning. The only chance for an important
private measure is that sooner or later some
Cabinet which is short of a war-cry will take it
up, and present it as the Cabinet’s own original
idea, and take all the credit of it, and shunt
the originator out into the cold.
# # *
It is generally understood to be one of the
props of the Constitution that the popular
Chamber has sole control of the public funds,
but this, like all the rest, is a delusion. The
Cabinet has control of the public funds, and the
Legislature merely enjoys the privilege of
cursing impotently after the event. In many
cases the Financial Statement is not presented
until the year is far advanced—sometimes not
until it is nearly ended—and then there is not
even a pretence of parliamentary supervision ;
the Cabinet simply reports that the money has
been spent, and the Legislature can no more
argue against that accomplished fact than it
can undo its own past existence, and prevent
itself having been born. If it objects to the
expenditure it can dismiss the Cabinet and get
in its place another Cabinet which will act in
exactly the same fashion, but that is not con-
trolling the public funds in any shape or form.
Sometimes, on the other hand, the Financial
Statement is presented in advance, and then
the House has just about as much control as it
has the other way. It may make a few small
alterations, and pare off a few coppers here
and there, without causing any disaster ;
but if it attempts any large reform,
either in the method of raising or spend-
ing the revenue, it thereby expresses “ want
of confidence ” in the Cabinet, and that
body resigns. Then another Cabinet comes
into power, and if the House endeavours to
supervise the public funds in its case it resigns
also, and so the process may go on until twenty
Cabinets have resigned, and the whole public
service has been at a dead-lock for months,- and
yet the Parliament has no more authority over
the finances than when it started. And even
when the Government nominally submits to
the decision of the House, and withdraws
objectionable items of expenditure, it generally
happens that it simply borrows some trust
funds without authority, and proceeds with the
expenditure all the same ; and when the matter
is reported to the people’s representatives, they
can only curse after the event, as usual.
# * *
The whole system of government is a wild
burlesque, but the method by which the Legisla-
ture attempts to assert its power in financial
matters is probably the most humorous feature
of all. The recent trouble which came upon
the Dibbs (N.S.W.) Ministry is a case in point.
In that instance, the Cabinet was accused of
having taken £lOOO out of the public funds for
the Premier’s private purposes. In other words,
it was charged with malversation of trust-
funds in a bald and glaring form. It was
put upon its trial, and found “ not guilty ”
—principally by its own votes. It went into
the jury-box to consider its own case, and there
returned a unanimous verdict of acquittal in
favour of itself. If Francis Abigail and his
fellow-prisoners in the case of the Australian
Banking Co. had demanded the privilege of
acting as jurors at their own trial, it is probable
that somebody would have observed the
grotesqueness of the situation, but when a
Government does the same no one seems to
dream of objecting. On the general want-of-
confidence motion the Dibbs Cabinet was saved
by a majority of four, which is just about half
its own voting power; in other words, the
Assembly hasn’t confidence in it, and it retains
office merely because half of it has confidence
in itself. Except as a commentary on the
beauties of Party Government, however,
this result matters very little. If the
Dibbs Ministry had.been dismissed because it
jobbed away £lOOO without authority, the
country would only have got in its stead the
old Foreign-trade gang which, inside of six
years jobbed aw r ay over £1500,000 also without
authority, and at the head of it, possibly, the
whining old political impostor who, only the
other day cabled off’, purely on his own authority,
to a friend of his in England an order for
£9OOO worth of useless statues. Moreover, the
£lOOO is gone, and the £600,000 is gone like-
wise, and the Assembly may protest till the
end of Time, but neither amount will ever come
back. The Cabinet, under the present nefarious
system, is master of the situation, except when
it has to sit hopelessly by and be talked to
death by some member of the Neild descrip-
tion ; and the rest of the Legislature and the
nation at large are merely the voice of one
crying in the wilderness, and trying to gather
up the water that was spilt upon the sands the
year before last.
Exit Abigail.
Last w r eek one chapter in the sordid history of
the Australian Banking Co. came to a definite
end, when Francis Abigail, N.S.W. ex-
Minister of Mines, formerly Chairman of
Directors in the defunct institution, was sen-
tenced to five years’ imprisonment, while his
colleague, M‘Nam aka, once manager of the
same so-called bank, was sentenced to seven
years. The Australian Banking Co. was a poor,
mean swindle from first to last -a concern in
which the accounts were clumsily botched by
cobblers and tenth-rate speculators who had
neither sufficient principle to be honest nor
sufficient brains to be brilliant rogues j
and Abigail was, in many respects, the type
and lilting emblem of the institution. The
bank, so far as can lie gathered, had not
one single redeeming feature in its character—
it was a joint-stock lie and a cheap deception
all through. Its chairman was probably just
about as honest and just about as dishonest as,
at least, half of ordinary mankind—which is by
no means an overstrained compliment ; and it
was chiefly his colossal vanity, the outcome of
his unaccountable success, which brought him to
ruin. Despite his ill-deeds, however, many will
extend to him some small measure of sympathy,
if only on account of the stupendous nature of
his fall. A little while ago he was a capitalist
of some note, a member of the Legisla-
cure, a financier -of a sort an influentia-
citizen, a bright and shining light of the church
a pillar and prop of one of the great sectarian
divisions, a Minister of State, a buttress of tha
Foreign-trade party —and now, what remains?
# # #
Both among financiers and politicians Abigail
was an anomaly. He had a reputation for cast-
iron honesty, chiefly because of his merciless
attacks upon evil-doers, and partly because it was
surely hard to imagine what such a man could
have to live for unless he was honest. His ignor-
ance and his vanity were both enormous, and
that such a person should have been a success
in public life is a solemn commentary on
the social and political institutions of Aus-
tralia. The method of Abigail’s rise was
characteristic of him, and of his party.
He was an industrious tradesman, a peddling
religious fanatic, a little suburban alderman
with a great volume of ungrammatical elo-
quence, then a member of Parliament—member
for the besieged city of Londonderry of two
centuries ago —a politician whose entire creed
was summed up in the theory that the Pope
was going up and down Macquarie-street,
Sydney, like a roaring lion seeking whom he
might devour, and an ardent Foreign-trader
because, having met a lot of Irish Catholics
who were Protectionists, it at once became a
fixed idea in his narrow intelligence that Pro-
tection (to which he had once given his entire
adherence) was the short road to another
massacre of St. Bartholomew'. Then, in an
evil hour, he was induced to add banking to his
other sins, and banking, run on shoemaking
principles, was his ruin.
# * #
As a Minister he was a dire and hopeless
failure, but as a private member he did enormous
service. He looked even more honest than an
honest man generally does look. He was eager,
hungry, watchful the human epitome of a
rat peering out of a sewer ;he w 7 as a sleepless
being always bristling for a fight. Nobody
had a keener scent for a fraud, or exposed
it more relentlessly. His forte lay in digging
the heart out of a swindle, and holding it up,
impaled on his gaunt and haggard finger,
for public execration. Then the little,
wizened man, whose gnarled intelligence had
grown sideways, and who dug into the
mysteries of tilings, always expecting, with
the eye of faith, to find the Jesuits at the
bottom, used to grow almost eloquent, and his
incredible tenacity made him a power in the
impotent and riotous Assembly which howled
and bayed round the Jenmngs-Dibbs Adminis-
tration. In these times he even acquired a
certain reputation for sagacity, and either be-
cause Pakkes supposed him to be intelligent,
or, far more likely, because Pakkes knew that
he —this uninstructed shoemaker—was tractable
and not intelligent, that ancient schemer re-
warded him with a portfolio. Then Abigail’s
political bubble burst. In his ministerial situ-
ation he was a mere irascible automaton ;
and if the “ minits ” which disfigured his
career in the Cabinet had been put in
at his trial instead of the so-called “evi-
dence as to character,” to say nothing of the
evidence given as to his intelligence, it would
have been much better for him. His business
reputation was based entirely on his infinite
capacity for going round on all-fours looking
for a dropped half-penny. He seems to have
taken his own measure at last when at the trial
he pleaded his copious ignorance as practically
his oidy defence, and it would be interesting to
know what gross injury or insult done by him
upon Pakkes caused that old gentleman to
blast his former colleague in the witness box bv
swearing that he was a man of strong intelli
gence, thus destroying the only plea which held
out any hope of Abigail’s salvation,
* * #
But though few will seriously maintain that
Francis Abigail’s conviction was unjust, or
that his sentence was mort severe than the case
required, in view of the ruin brought by him
upon so many homes, it is the general, though
as yet publicly unexpressed, opinion that tin
manner in which justice was meted out to hiir
is open to much question. It w'as Abigail’s
misfortune to be tried before Mr. Justice Win-
deyer, audit is Justice Windbyer’s misfortune
to have the instincts of the hunter rather than
of the unimpassioned Judge much too strongly
developed in his composition. The average
jury can be driven before a strong-minded and
impetuous Judge like twelve sheep before a
collie, and the whirlwind of his Honor’s
passion is a potent factor in obtaining con-
victions. Abigail’s conviction was probably
just in every respect, and it must be con-
fessed that the Judge’s summing-up, how-
ever slaughterous, was remorselessly logical ;
but if Abigail had been an innocent man the
manner of the charge to the jury might have
brought about a conviction all the same. A
judicial deliverance ■to a jury ought to be
a calm, cold, and deliberate summary of every
point both for and against the prisoner, de-
livered by a calm and passionless man who
shows no definite desire either for acquittal or
for conviction, but only for judicial deliverance.
In the present case, it was a cyclone of burning
indignation a speech for the prosecution
delivered by a skilled and bitter advocate—
such a speech as J eeereys might have delivered
in those better days when he was only a
brilliant and hysterical lawyer who could shed
genuine tears at a tale of genuine woe. If
the mild and gentle language of Rogers,
Q.C., on behalf of the prosecution had come
from the bench, and that of Judge
Windeyer had been discharged at the
bar, the situation would have been much
more becoming. Judge Windeyer is unques-
tionably the soundest lawyer on the New South
Wales Bench, and in intricate civil cases,
■where there is no gaol or gallows in the dis-
tance, he has no superior in the Australasian
judiciary ; but his infirmity of temper, and his
unfortunate instincts as a born prosecutor rather
than as a Judge designed to uphold the digni-
fied equanimity of the ideal Bench, make
him eminently unfitted to preside in a criminal
court. Abigail, despite his monstrous ignorance,
his diseased vanity, t he fanaticism which makes
him overlook things near and pertinent, while
he glares after imaginary Popish conspiracies
afar off, and any other features in his character


which might partly account for his conduct,
was guilty ia a legal sense; but the style of
Judge Windeyer’s tempestuous oratory might
easily have induced many a weak-kneed jury to
convict him even had his case been less
obviously hopeless.
* * #
The outer world has now practically seen the
last of Francis Abigail. To a poor cripple of
his miserably weak physique, five years’ hard
labour is so nearly equivalent to a sentence of
death that the difference is hardly appreciable.
But even if he should outlive his term, lie will
never ascend to notoriety again. Both his rise
and his fall are due, in a great measure, to his
old chief, who has been for nearly a generation
the leading spirit in New South Wales politics,
and has, by his neglect of domestic legislation,
permitted that province to be or become the
paradise of quack bankers, quack doctors, bogus
lotteries, and all other sorts and varieties of
shams. It was Parkes’ Kiama Ghost policy
which made it possible for a man to attain
high office simply because he was the boss
crank in an Orange institution. It was Parkes’
neglect of his most obvious duties which
allowed the existence of such establish-
ments as the Australian Banking Co. It was
Parkes who made Abigail a “ statesman,” and
thus made his name of special value to “ cronk”
financial institutions. And it was also Parkes
who drove the last nail in his disused col-
league’s coffin by deposing to his intelligence
at a moment when a charge of intelligence was
about as fatal to him as a charge of dynamite.
The very fact of his calling the ex-Premier as a
witness should have acquitted the fallen finan-
cier of any suspicion of having enough sagacity
to come in out of the rain.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A “Long-felt Want.”
One of the noticeable features of the banking
troubles in Australia is that almost every
financier who has gone to gaol—-and they are
many has relied largely upon evidence
as to character. Just when the wreck-
age of his bursted bank, and the fraudu-
lent balance-sheet have satisfactorily demon-
strated that the only character the defendant
ever had is one which ought to be removed to a
noxious trades site, six or eight clergymen and
other “ respectable ” members of the com-
munity, who once saw the back of his head in
an omnibus, have wandered into the witness-
box to testify, as an extenuating circumstance,
that he is a person of the highest morals
ami has always worn the white flower of a
blameless life. The fact that everybody with
any money—even if it is obviously some one
else’s money —always gets this kind of support,
and that hardly anybody without money ever
gets it, leads The Bulletin to imagine that it
is practically a saleable article, and therefore it
seems desirable that a company should be
formed to supply it regularly at a certain fixed
tariff. This institution would fill quite a lot of
long-felt wants. It would supply witnesses to
testify to the character of anybody who would
pay to have his character testified to, and
would keep assorted evidence on hand—clergy-
men, doctors, C.M.C.s, business men, and
others. The fact that these individuals were
connected with the company would be kept
strictly secret and they would be scattered all
over the country ; thus if a man were tried,
say at Townsville, he could have a white-haired
clergyman who had come express from Wil-
cannia to state, in a voice broken by emotion,
that he had known the suspect from his
innocent boyhood, and that his reputation
was beyond reproach. The emotion and
travelling expenses would be extras. Also
the company would supply the aged mother
who would weep silently in the court,
and faint just before the jury went out to
consider its verdict, and thus touch a responsive
chord which would be charged for in the bill —
“ Responsive chord, 10s. fid.” It would furnish
testimonials from men of good standing to per-
sons in search of situations, and would act as a
reference in life insurance cases and swear that
the insurer was sober, healthy, and came of a
long-lived family. Any citizen whose character
showed signs of fading or who wanted an adver-
tisement, and thought that a banquet and an
address tendered by a number of leading citizens,
gathered together to express their spontaneous
admiration of his worth, would help him in
any way, could leave his order and his
cheque at the company’s office, and the banquet
and the leading citizens would be supplied.
Presentations of plate would be arranged for ;
applause, laughter and encores furnished at
meetings and theatres; letters written to
patent-medicine vendors from patients whose
livers, before taking the nostrum, had been
swollen up to a fearful size ; public men abused
in the papers, so that they could come forward
afterwards and demonstrate the utter baseness
of the calumny, and thereby get a good puff;
crowds always kept on hand to rush into banks
and lodge large sums of money, in order to
excite confidence, also enthusiastic depositors
to rise up when the institution suspended and
say that they were ready to wait ten years for
the money, and friendly creditors to uprear
themselves at bankruptcy meetings and
announce unanimously that, owing to the
high character and undeserved misfortunes
of the insolvent, they would take 3s. fid. in the £
payable by unsecured bill at 36 months.
Browning citizens would likewise be laid on,
who would be rescued at the imminent risk of
his life by anybody who wanted to make a
favourable impression on the community;
speeches and sermons written, interruptions
fixed up, and impromptus furnished to crush
the interrupter, bouquets hove, banks burgled
so as to have the books out of the way before
the audit, converts kept on hand to weep at
revival meetings and heave cheques and bank-
notes on the platform in aid of the cause, and
medical certificates and alibis put in. If such a
company as this wouldn’t supply a great want,
then The Bulletin has altogether misunder-
stood the meaning of that oft-quoted expression.
Bear Bulletin, -yin a recent article you com-
mented on the frightful waste of Labour funds
caused by strikes, and you have often pointed
out that there is a brilliant opening in each of the
Australian capitals for a thorough-going, honest
democratic daily. But would such a paper,
privately owned, be a success? Recent London
experience says no. Several labour, democratic
and socialistic organs have been “ frozen out,”
or bought out by Capital there during the last
two or three years. Capitalists can always
bide their time to snap up any successful
democratic paper and turn it Tory. Where could
the labour-unions better employ their funds
than in running democratic dailies in Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane ? Even if
there was an annual loss for the first few years,
it would be money well lost. Nowadays, no
cause can progress fast unless it has press
organs, which are at once its sword and shield.
To ensure safety and continuous existence, the
ownership of Labour dailies would have to be
vested in the Trades Councils of the various
capitals. The main reason why so ,many
workers —clerks, shopmen, small farmers, etc.—
are inclined to listen to the bray of the
“ National Ass,” is simply ignorance as to
their own interests, and the position they hold
towards landlords, sweaters, and the money-
spinning fraternity in general, and nothing
would dispel this ignorance so fast as a demo-
cratic daily. The Broken Hill strike is said to
have cost the miners £300,000 in wages alone,
without counting the loss to the labour funds
by subscriptions from all parts of Australia. A
third of the money lost would have started
great dailies—heralds of the coming dawn —in
each Australian capital.—Yours, X.Y.Z.
Apropos the possession by the Crown of a jury-
list not given to the defence in the Broken Hill
strike leaders’ trial, it is stated that policemen
were sent round the Deniliquin district to
ascertain the opinions of the jurors summoned.
Mr. “ Jack ” Wagner, (who appeared with Mr.
Want for the defence) through residence at his
father’s station, PerricoOta, knew some of the
jurors, but the bias of thought of the majority
was.an unknown quantity to the defence, and
a known quantity to the Crown. At this
juncture the Rev. Mr, Allen, who was in Court
and saw the unfairness of the whole proceed-
ings, stepped in and offered his advice. In
consequence, the defence challenged 21 jurors.
The result, however, proves that the Village
Priest was not strong in striking a panel. The
squattocracy and its tail at Deniliquin talk of
driving Mr. Allen out of the place for his
action, but we should hope there are enough
good Presbyterians appreciative of noble motives
who will give him a good call elsewhere.
The usual cablegrams from England announce
that the blessed Times approves of the sen-
tences passed on the Broken Hill strike leaders,
and also of Abigail’s conviction. This sort of
thing is getting very stale, and it seems a pity
that the cablegram-man doesn’t give it a rest.
Nobody in Australia cares one long beer
whether the Times approves or not, and even
in England people have lost their interest in the
Times’ approval. Besides, that heavy two-
penn’orth is so absolutely mechanical in its
action that anybody can tell what its senti-
ments will be without the expense of a
cablegram. It always approves of arrests,
convictions, and hangings, and of any-
thing bearing the outward semblance of
‘ ‘ loyalty. ” It cordially endorses Soudan con-
tingents, increased military expenditure, land-
grarrt railways, syndicates, the suppression of
strikes, and things like that, and it backs up
everything that is likely to commend itself to a
“right-thinking person ” generally. Australia
is growing so tired of this that the next strike-
leader who gets into trouble should call
evidence to show that the Times is likely to
approve of his conviction. If that wouldn’t
secure his acquittal, nothing would.
The New South Wales police have at last
began to discover where those mysterious
infants —the ones which are advertised for in
the evening papers —go to. At all events,
seven of them have been dug up in a back-yard
at Macdonaldtown (Sydney), and how many
more remain to be dug up in other back-yards
is a matter for conjecture. Competition has
brought prices so low in the infant industry that
the ordinary artist in babies can’t afford
doctors’ certificates and funerals, and as the
adopted offspring has to die, else the
business wouldn’t pay, and it must be
disposed of somehow, the chances are that the
back-yard system of interment is tolerably com-
mon. At all events, it should be worth while to
investigate. If the detectives would get on the
trail of all the notorious baby-farmers, and pro-
ceed to dig up the back-yard of every one of the
tribe, the results might be surprising. The
Macdonaldtown artists didn’t get their idea
from Deeming as they were obviously in the
business before his time, but probably the
police did, as this is the first time they have
gone systematically to work to disturb the
baby-farmer’s little private cemetery.
+. .
The “ Great Gulf Robbery ” is to be perpetrated
at once, if possible. The stick-at-nothing
Cbiffilwraith Government proposes, if neces-
sary, to hold a special supplementary session of
the dying Parliament, for the sole purpose of
ratifying the land-grant-robbery railway con-
tracts, the drafts of which will then be all
ready. The new gagging Standing Orders will
prevent the two or three remaining honest
politicians in the House from stonewalling, and
Parliament, with the death-rattle in its throat,
will be asked to sign away the people’s inheri-
tance for ever. As regards the Gulf lines, what
cares the South? This is the last chance it
has to handle for its own profit the glorious
mineral lands of the North, and it intends to
hold that chance with bulldog grip. Next
year, when the North takes over its own busi-
ness, it will also have to take over all existing
agreements. Civil wars have grown out of
smaller swindles. >
•
The S.M. Herald asserts that it cannot be
the duty of the Government to. find work for
the unemployed, because “ Every other class
accepts it as a necessity as well as a duty to
rely on itself. ” This is one of these sophisms
that are apt to deceive those who skim
over the surface of things. The “ unem-
ployed ” is not a fixed quantity, nor is it
a class; it is constantly recruited, not only
from the ranks of the, manual workers, but
from every other section of the community.
The ruined squatter, publican, baker, pawn-
broker, banker, doctor, lawyer (who can’t
get a fresh start), throws himself at
once on an overstocked labour market ,
to depreciate wages by giving his incapable
service at any price that may be . offered. t
Cheapness being, to some people, a desideratum,
he may displace a better man, or, failing to find ,
work, mgty- join that section of the unemployed t
who constantly seek solace for their woes in send-' ;
ing deputations to interview the Government. .
Thus it becomes evident that the statement .
that “ every other class ” except the vvorkers,
. “.relies on itself” refers only to them during
; periods of prosperity. In their adversity they .
make things much worse for habitual wage-
; earners, and battle even more lustily for
Government billets than any other members of
the community. ,
■ ♦
That raid upon Melbourne “ totes” was quite
characteristic of the law. The totes, rascally
swindles for the most part, were winked at .
(and probably sweated) by the men in blue until
circumstances compelled them to stop the game.
Warrants having been taken out the obviously
proper course was to go round immediately and
arrest every man who kept a machine on the
premises. If the object of the law is the pre-
vention of tote-gambling, the duty of the police
was to seize the plant before it could be further
operated with. But “the authorities ” never
miss a chance to victimise the public under
cover of vindicating the law. So the raid was
arranged to come off on Derby night in order
that a number of poor devils might be legally
robbed of the money they had won. This free
and easy seizing of cash by officers who can give
their own account of it is open to grave objec-
tion, anyway. When they deliberately plan
the seizure of as much cash as possible, under
circumstances which seem to make it impossible
to check the amount that was grabbed, the
objection is very strong indeed.
The bill, introduced by “Andy” Kelly, to
extend the protection of the Employers’ Liability
Act to all seamen within New South Wales
jurisdiction, has been emasculated in the
nominee Council by a select committee of
squatters and shipowners whose votes should
be challenged if they dare to vote against the
second reading, on the ground that they are
personally and pecuniarily interested in the
defeat of the bill. The force of this contention
is exemplified by their cunning alteration of the
definition of the term “ship” so as to exclude any
vessel that is not registered hi the province. This
alteration allows all the wool-carriers to escape
scot free : the bill will not reach the very ships
on which the bulk of the accidents occur.
Again, the term “seamen” has been amended
so as to include only those on a ship who have
signed articles. Under the bill, as originally
drawn, if a personal injury were caused to a
seaman when his ship was “within the jurisdic-
tion of New South Wales,” he could claim the
protection of the principal Act. But as it is
amended, unless “ a ship is moored or at anchor
receiving or discharging . cargo or . an,
injured seaman has'no redress whatever. And
even if life is injured while his ship is receiving
or discharging cargo or coals he is denied what-
ever privilege or advantage he enjoyed under
thfe Merchant Shipping Act, It is superfluous
to say that Crick’s" amendment to compel the
owner to prove absence of negligence has been
ruthlessly erased from the bill.. Dr. Garran,
’in whose charge the bill was, is no longer in the
Council.
- - "*"* ”
The S.M. ' Herald is now printed on
American (protected) paper. America is beating
Erigland in cheapness.
Of Sir Charles Wetherell, M.P., it was
said that the only lucid, or loosed, interval about .
him was that between his waistcoat and trousers.
A Victorian settler, called upon to inform i
the Department how many “ dingoes, foxes,
rabbits, &c.,” he had killed on his land, proudly
, replied, per return post: “ I killed won goanner
wid a shtick.” His name is believed to be
Muldoon.
Cable to the dailies reports that a whole
raft of nameless persons were smashed, burned,
and otherwise destroyed in the Edinburgh express
accident, but cheerfully affirms that the Marquis
of Tweeddale and the Marquis of Huntly escaped
uninjured. Electric grovel!
Sydney Y.M.C.A, evidently resents Abi-
gail’s conviction and laments concerning “men
held in the highest esteem in the city who had
recently, by reason of a first false step, been called
upon’to suffer at the hands of the law.” “A
first false step” is a mild way of expressing a
swindle of at least four years’ duration. Four
years is a pretty long “step.”
Assuming it to be proved that Sleath and
his fellow-“conspirators ” countenanced and even
directed the stopping of free-labourers by the
pickets at Broken Hill, how does that justify the
sentence? Unquestionably it is a breach of the
law to forcibly prevent a man going to work,
but is it the sort of crime to be punished by two
years’ hard labour? Would any man but a strike-
leader get such a sentence for it, even if he
used a pickhandle to effect his object? And
if a man gets that sentence because he is
a strike leader, then he is illegally punished for
being engaged in an occupation quite as lawful as
sitting on the bench of the Supreme Court.
Further, suppose any picket had used a pick-
handle, and after being duly dealt with by the
law for the assault had been presented by
Sleath and his colleagues with the weapon
silver-mounted accompanied by an illuminated
address, would not the Crown-Prosecutor have
cheerfully, in case of need, abandoned all the
other evidence, and relied on that one fact alone
to prove a blatant sympathy with crime, and a
direct encouragement and incitement to in-
timidation and violence? Then what is the
reason that there has been no prosecution
of the persons who silver-mounted the weapon
used by bank-manager Cotton in his assault
on Sleath, and presented it with ostenta-
tious approbation to the* convicted assailant?
The only reason that can be suggested is that
Cotton’s friends didn’t happen to be unionists.
■ Arresting them would not have done any good ;
it would not have helped to bust up the strike. ,
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will he taken of communications ivhich arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“Veritas” : Supposing it true, of what earthly
interest?... “Cubbi”(Q.): Letter posted to address.
“J.E.”: Thanks. Have written to advertiser
“Teegal”; Nothing very new “0.8. J.”: We have
printed too many purely album-verses ; it serves us right
to be bombarded with such things. We are too good-
natured and long-suffering where poets are concerned..
“Coso”: Unlike the Independent, The Bulletin is an
independent paper.... “ K.K.” :We repeat that Gleeson,
a man under sentence of death, and legally dead, should
not have been allowed to testify against Moncado This
business shows the necessity for the appointment; at
State expense, of a competent Crown defender in the
interests of moneyless accused, who now have to rely on
harmless, tame barristers' . .“Tasman”: The Bulletin
didn’t argue as to guilt or innocence. It only argued as
to fairness of trial.... “ George Carson ” ; If a lot of the
bush-workers do leave for the Argentine, Tub Bulletin
will wish them well, but it will be very sorry. There are
green fields afar off; likewise, Kerry cows have long f
horns-and so on “A. E. Grace” : No ; The Bulletin
certainly didn’t print your “ Storekeeper’s Fancy Gin.”..
“ Sydney Loafer”: The only market for such MS. is the -
fish-shop “ G.C.J.” (Tas.): Excellently written, but
too heavy. Your Pegasus carries list. 101 b. ... “ F.E.”
(Flinders River): You are Amoroso-?.P.C.8.W.”
(Q.) : Coals to Newcastle—you send us our own matter.... 1
“Leander”: “ History of, Australian Exploration,” by »
Ernest Faveno (Turner and Henderson, Sydney), is the ,
best book to read first. It gives a broad view of the whole
matter, and- indicates the sources to which you should
turn in detail “Menina”: Too bluntly done '
“ S.P.” (Evans River): Mr. Edmund Fisher has taken ,
the liberty of improving upon your excellent idea
“ H.G.G.” (M.): Fifty per cent, old puns. We don’t
adore purely literal humour—the English sort which needs 1
italicising..E.P.C.C.” (Woolloomooloo): There is no
such provision as your friend ’states. . The ability in'
N.S.W. to break down the continued opposition of the 1
Leg. Council rests in the fact that a Govt, can appoint
additional members of their own opinion (number un-
limited by law) to that nominee body. Another way, ,
with some Bills, is simply tp tack them on to an Appro-
priation Bill, in which case (as the Council cannot amend ’
a money Bill, but must accept it holus holus or reject it) 1
the Council could not reject it without refusing supplies, ;
and creating a deadlock that might have a bad recoil
“ E. 0.” : There is nothing necessarily offensive in the
word quack—it merely means advertised ; all advertised
medicines are quack “Eiffa ”: You don’t send name
and address. Are your Charles Maekayish verses really /
original ?._... “Tim D,” : Thanks, but have had it from a
do2eh quartefs q* Invisible ” : Election to’Parliament
would not release.-them; ..’.“Shadow” : Too similar to
“The Outdoor Patient;” recently published... “ P.C.”
(Perth): If “George Washington, business-manager,”
says that "Bella Sutherland,‘and hot Jenny Hill of London,
is the original “ Vital Spark,” then George can’t be the
original G. Washington, that’s, a 11... •. “ E tangata roa ” :
A first-class criminal libel; there is hut one missionary in
that locality.,Beryl” (Tas.): Good verge, but then
it’s the sort Of thing'you could clip Jrom any isgue of the
.British Workman during the last 20 years. Try some-
thing embodying a poetic:.thought ■;-■quit the barrel-
brgan.... “ Fidus A.”: Learn .Pitman-r-Isaac Pitman;
don't know anythingkbout the other. You write short-'
hand just-as you write longhand. The Caligraph is, we
consider, the best typewriter ; in six months you should
be gble to write fast. Your salary as a shorthand-writer
and typist would depend more upon your mental qualifi-
cations than upon your manual dexterity. The commer-
cial world fairly gasps for brainy "clerks,... “ Phoenix ” :
We publish your pathetic “In’Memoriam” because The
•Bulletin never received,a dead-horse poem like it. before,
and never expects to meet one just like it again :
“Abel M.” (Bendigo): Sort of story that could only
he published in an ash-heap... “Victorian Artillery-
man” (Queenscliff); You don’t send any coherent griev-
ance. Has the officer you complain of taken away your
best girl—or what? ...“8.Q.” (Kyahram): A chronicle-
of small beer and turnips, of no interest outside your
village. . .“W.A.” (Burra Burra): A little better than,
the average drunken-shearer poem, hut that is a 11...
“Parisian”: Too conventional. The good man, in real
life, is generally red-headed and stumpy, and his bow-lega
are an outward sign of the spiritual grace within. Never
trust a man unless he is so ugly that a good conscience
is the only comfort left for him... “A. W.L.” (Sydney) :
We have used your massive joke to pound road-metal with
forour garden path. Italsqdoes good serviceasa pile-driver
....“W.L.” (Tullamore); Do you seriously expect us to
accept “devil ” as a rhyme for “tight?”., .“ One of the
Unemployed” (Drummoyne); Too long, and the open
countenance of your MS. is disfigured by bad-puns....
“ Phoenix ”,: Are you the man who wrote to us once .about
the adulteration of “ cauphy ?” “C.A.T.”: Regret
that your verses don’t suit our “coltums.” Also, do try
to write a little less like mad gridirons at a rink... “A
Fossicker ” (Sudest, N. Guinea); Received, with thanks.
“The Wanderer” : A harrowing tale that reads like
an abattoirs full of blood, brains, and offal .., “ If. A. 8.” :
Everyone is “had” sometimes .. “M.E.K.”: No; un-
suitable. You were answered to that effect “H. F-
Glennie”: Send date on which it appeared....“ David
O'C.” : “Peace and. Quiet” was well treated, but the
theme was threadbare .. “K.P.”; Returned. .“M.0.”:
First, sketch will shortly be reproduced ... “ Lanore ” :
Will probably print “G.D.S.’ 1 : Write Dymock, book-
seller, Sydney.... “J.D.D.”: Thanks for your letter.
Have unavailingly hunted for your address....“ C.K.”
(Mudgee): A flattering suggestion ; but the workers will
never have consolidated power without a “ straight ”
daily paper of their own in each province “Spider”
(Maoriland) : You are an energetic man.
Dear Bulletin, —Bless your heart, tie/
are not yet half civilised in) Queensland in their
treatment of the blacks. At the Cape when ;
nigger happened to get in front of a bull jt, they
used to place the corpse on the railway-line and
let the' first cow-catcher bump.him into a jelly.
Doctor’s certificate—drunk, asleep on the line.— B.
IN MEMORIAM.
■The firey steed when young was full of go
Rut that was very many years ago. '
His jumping powers had gained >for him renown t. 1
When ridden py. a youth from Perry town.
But O ! the'thought now makes me feel heartsore
To think the steed will jump for him no more.
The horse was known as “ Play-boy ” very appropriate
But to explain the’reason I cannot now relate.
Tho’ as an instance of his sterling worth
At the same place he was foaled he passed away from carta
Many a good steed has changed owners by the score
But this one had the same until he was no more.
To trace his pedigree would lead you back
To England’s earliest record of racer’s crack.
Altho this horse was used in many a way
In all he worked as hearty as boys at play.
He fell asdike a War horse in,his gore :
■And sad to think he’ll jump again no more.
Whilst doing duty,on tjie campjng; ground
With cows and calves and bullocks all around,,
A nAddehed cow frdm out the main nihb flew *
And horrted poor Playboy,Mettirig daylight through.
Nonbah has of its best-horse beeri bereft
And now there’s nothing but his carcase left; -
Console yourselves and dry away those tears
For was not poor old Playboy full, pi years ?
He’d lived through many a hard long year of drought
And many a thousand angry beasts “cutout”
O ! Playboy ! thou art not’the horse of yore
For you will draft and jump again no more.


THE BEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid to Policy-holders in Forty-nine Years
—BT—
THE MUTUAL LIFE ""“S’ OF NEW YORK.
Funds Exceed £33,150,000.
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Profits paid to Policy-
holders. Bonuses larger than in any other company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and
we will forward you an illustration of the benefits to be obtained under modern forms of life and
investment assurances, in which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
immediately upon receipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Company’s
agencies throughout tire world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
Principal Agency; ... ... 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches : 473 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE; m QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
Mrs. Beetou says; “Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is Is. Gd., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
* rench clarets, and they are only one-third of the
price.
[?]
SI6 Mu -iiiarie- trect North, Sydney, Nov. 8, 1892,
My Dear Moorabin da,
Anecdotelets of the Gaiety' Co.’s last night in Sydney
savour rather of the sadly retrospective, but I can’t help
remembering the funny figure the Gaiety giantess cut
when the pack of laundried youths who call themselves
the “ red-necktie brigade,” threw her their buttonholers
and implored her to pick ’em up. The Amazon in scarlet
lights couldn’t get at them to save her life, so the flowers
remained where they lit, amid much mirth. And, talking
Gaiety girl, I hear that one of them charmed the very soul
of a Sydney legal Johnnie one evening after the play by
turning off the gas with her bare toes.
By the way, Courtneidge is a most ticklish person. You
need only crinkle five fingers in the air half a-vard off him
to reduce him to a state of wild hysteria. One night
Marion Hood made claws at him just for mischief, on the
stage, and the audience heard him beg her to leave off.
I wonder why the Australian gilded youth is so proof
against the (matrimonial) charms of the ballet? You
hardly ever hear of young Jurabuck leading Tottie to the
altar, as the peerage is so fond of doing. I, for one, can’t
remember anything of the sort —but then I am so young
and inexperienced, \ouhear of diamonds and drives to
Rock Lily or Heidelberg, but it’s a cold day when Flossie
gets a tangible wedding-ring grip on the worldly assets
of Mr. Pure Merino. The Australian society man has a
perfect mania for marrying in his owm set, or a little
above it: he is quite as appreciative of his own connubial
value as is any English spinster.
The leason wiy the local 11 Johnnie” is so much more
caieful in these affairs than my Lord Dazzle may perhaps
be ttaced to the fact that Lord D. is very weary of being
exalted and longs to come down with a run, while Jum-
buck hasn t had quite enough of swell society to put
himself outside the boundary-fence for mere love of a
dancing-girl. Though it doesn’t always follow, by any
means, that alliance with the ballet involves social
ostracism. A man may force almost any sort of a wife on
to his friends if he’s only rich enough.
At hich brings up the story of how a well-known Aus-
tralian mining potentate secured a clear field to win the
wifely affections of the Hebe in a diggings’ hotel. She
had two business-like suitors, the embryo potentate and
the village blacksmith. Smithy seemed so full of running
(one can’t control sporting phrases at race-time) that the
other man got frightened at his chance and offered Vulcan
a bundle of shares in Broken Hill to go away and leave
him in possession. A 7 ulcan took the shares, which even-
tually gave him a snug independence. But perhaps the
lady went dirt-cheap even at that.
It’s a good thing that a certain well-advertised and
benevolent Australian millionaire is worth seven figures,
or else the one thing benevolent about him would pro-
bably be the walls of the asylum of that ilk. You see, he
counts himself the guide, philosopher, and friend of so
many charming little women. One of his fixed habits has
been to order champagne for “ everybody in the bar ” if
there happened to be a pretty face behind it that took his
fancy. And then he would go and settle the pretty face
in a bar of its own while he paid the piper. Not only one
spirituous charmer, mind you, but blocks of ’em, so that
when he sees “ Jane Smith ” over a corner pub. he can’t
tell for the life of him whether he paid for the sign or not 1
The top skimmers of a Southern city are fostering un-
flattering opinions of their Governor and his “ lady
principally his lady—and you can run the entire society
blockade without meeting with a woman who wants to
talk cf me and Lady Blank” since the socicty-c//m-
-aldermanic garden pawty. The “ best people ” view with
equanimity a gathering of sweeps even round theGuv’nah,
if the Guv’nah keeps the functions of smut and smartness
things sacredly apart. But to invite ’em all on one
common level, as if there wasn’t a pin to choose between
Mr. Alderman Grocery Jones and Miss de Darling Point,
was the unkindest cut of the season.
The proceedings of that garden-party wanted the Riot
Act read over them. The municipal heroes not only
brought their flushed and gratified female relatives in
wonderful millinery - they also brought their children and
th dr dogs—but even vice regal hospitality shied at Toby.
The “outsider” guests roamed all over the house, pene-
trating into the bedrooms even, until somebody uttered
the mystic monosyllable ‘ Tea,” and a Balaclava charge
was made for the tables. People snatched pastry off
plates as they were carried past. “ AVot! No korfy !”
said one lady, indignantly, in the same tone people use at
a badly-managed hotel; but the climax was reached when
two male \ isitors seized a whole cake and dived out into
the lawn, where they sat on the grass, divided the cak e
with a clasp-knife, anddevoured it between them !
From a Northern (N.S.W.) town comes a small and in-
dignant story (only the indignation is on the wrong side)
anent the behaviour of a bank-manager who objected to a
hotel hireling cutting the bread at the table. “Please don’t
cut the bread—your hands are dirty !” said he in dis-
gust as the servant pawed the staff of life, whereupon she
fled insulted, and mine host politely requested the
“ banker ”to go and board elsewhere. Which he did.
I wonder how long a community which thinks itself
civilised will put up with the public loaf—so general
throughout Australia —the monument of bread for every-
body to maul ? And not only the slice down on the
platter, which is the ordinary way of wresting a crusty
bit, and which is quite objectionable enough—l once saw
a man lift the thing bodily off the plate, clasp it to his
shirt-front, and saw chips off it towards his chin ! The
hygienic possibilities attached to eating what everybody
has handled would make sensational reading in a health-
pamphlet, to say nothing of the aesthetic aspect of the
case. Whj’’ don’t they give each person a separate roll—
or out the bread ere it comes to table?
Max O Hell, please listen ! The public loaf at the Aus-
tralian hotel table is as bad as are the public comb and
brush in the Australian hotel bedroom.
The Australian squattocracy (I speak, of course, about
the well-settled, railwayed regions) has developed quite a
mania for evening-dress, and for one “grazier” who has
his “ supper ” in a tweed-coat (here are ten “ squattahs”
who “dine at seving” in a miraculous state of starch.
On a lake run, out West, everybody gets into a boiled
shirt or a snip, as the sex may be, before sitting down to
dinner, even if the carte is only paddy-melon a la King
Billy and emu roti. But odd things happen to the man
who carries too much swallow-tail in the wilds of Aus-
tralia. For instance, they say it’s no uncommon sight to
see a form in a dress-suit bounding excitedly through a
bog, when something unexpected goes wrong on the run
after dinner.
Some men haven’t an ounce of tact, and I think one of
the very worst cases in point happened at a Sydney
registrar’s office the other day. A young and happy father
was supplying the thrilling statistics surrounding the
arrival of his “ first,” and the stolid clerk was putting on
the usual air of excessive lack of interest in the case. But
when it came to the mother’s maiden name, “ Eliza Jane
Smith," the quill-driver leapt into life. “You don’t
mean to tell me,” he carolled, joyously, “ that Eliza’s a
mamma ! Just think of. that now ! Oh, I knew Lizzie
awfully well in the old times! You just ask her, will you?
if she remembers Gussie Sniffkins and moonlight ’’—but
the proud papa had stood about as much as he could, and
the rest of Gussie’s joyous recollections were lost in the
scuffle.
There is very little reverence for employers in Australia,
perhaps because servants are so genealogically inquisitive
as a rule. Somebody tells me of overhearing two of her
hirelings commenting upon a departing lady visitor w'ho
had been calling upon her and was being borne away
lolling stylishly in her landau. “ Wonnerful, ain’t it ?”
said Jeames to John, “ ’ow the butcher’s daughter picks
it hall hup I”
A rather amusing instance of some people’s boundless
self-confidence occurred at a recent vice-regal garden-
part}. Mrs. Captain Gingah had prevailed upon the
Captain to escort her to the f§te, and he not being a
sociable hub. his wife was quite elated at having him in
tow. So in conversation with Lady Jersey she said
effusively: “ Oh, dear Lady Jersey, my husband has come
with me to-day, for a wonder, because he never goes to
garden-parties ! ” “ Indeed ! Then lam honoured,”
said M.E.J. in impenetrable tones, and would you believe
that Mrs. Captain G. tells the whole story with quite a
little flush of pride? Irony mustn’t be too fine in Aus-
tralia, evidently.
Wet weather is responsible for a tremendous lot of
sentiment, from the wild flutterings caused by a pretty
ankle getting over a drain to the two-under-one-gamp
act, which latter takes a lot of beating. The connubially-
minded young man who goes out without an umbrella on
a wet day, and the young woman who goes with one
under the same damp circs, needn’t fear going bald from
excess of intelligence. In support of this, a Sydney daily
paper “ agony ad.” fits in nicely here—
W IL £ Lady who sheltered under verandah,
Oxford Hotel, King-st., on Wednesday evening
about 8.15, communicate with the “Stranger,” Daily
Telegraph office. Intentions strictly honourable.
You see, the girl did her part of the business all right-
charging over the mud for an eligible shelter with an
agonised upward squint at her best hat, but the honour-
able stranger on the doorstep hadn’t a parasol with him,
so the scheme didn’t work. If he had had an “uni-
brellar " how different it all might have been !
I am in receipt of a pale-blue song decorated with a
bevy cf robust girls and entitled “Australia,” words and
music by L. A. Pogonowski. It is in A major and written
for the middle voice, but its poetry is too depressing to
ensure it a run as our national war-roar. After waking
up Australia’s sons (w'ho are always asleep in the patriotic
lilt), the poet evolves the pessimism that “ when other
nations have decayed we vig’rous then will be.” There
are a good many robust nations over the road, all well
and hearty last cable, so Australia is meant to be a bottled-
up continent for a considerable period, according to Mr.
Pogonowski.
Little girls make apt mistakes sometimes. Mrs. Dash
had got a new governess to whom she was relating her
“ experiences ” at lunch one day, when litti ■ eight-year-
old leant across the table during a pause and si,i 1 to the
; “ Won t you tell us some of your experi
ments of life, Miss Smith ? ”
An amusingly Frenchy comedy-incident occurred not so
long ago in a southern city to a blonde legal man, very
much gpris with a young and designing matron who tried
to play the old trick of letting hubby get home at a
critical juncture to blackmail the gay Lothario.
It was all be-yootifully arranged. He was to visit her
at night, and she was to be blissfully alone. The pro-
gramme was kept, too, apparently, only the lady left the
room for “an instant,” and the Lothario heard strange
whisperings going on in the hall. Peeping over the ban-
isters, he saw his inamorata in animated sotto-voee with
the cupboard under the stairs, and he grasped the situa-
tion at once. Hubby was in that cupboard.
When the angel returned, her victim, after a wily
interval, excused himself, and reconnoitring the cupboard
observed the key on the outside. So he gently, but
firmly, looked it, put the key in his pocket, and returned
to his allegiance. Whether the husband ever got out, or
whether he was a modern edition of the “Mistletoe
Bough” heroine, doesn’t transpire, but the legal man
keeps the key (now gilded) to this moment as a memento
of what may happen to a man in Australia.
When Shaksper (it’s not clever to spell his name like-
anybody else) wrote about the urchin trudging unwillingly
to school, he couldn’t have meant a Queensland school,
for the unwillingness would have been natural under the
circumstances. A Brisbane public-school girl died the
other day from the effects of a blow, and her father stated
m court that “ a male school-teacher struck the child on
the head, contrary to instructions.'’ I should hope so.
Is the Brisbane parent in the habit of “instructing ” the
dominie to correct his olive twigs on the place where the
wool ought to grow? Or does the dominie spank them on
the skull as a general principle, which may be altered on
the guardian expressing a wish to have Johnnie tanned
lower down ?
A “anhas just returned who went ’Ome with the
celebrated society dame who created such a stir at one of
the Government Houses. Restates that the lovely one
made things hum on the voyage, and that officers and male
passengers had a high old time ; and he wouldn’t swear
that the Lascars hadn’t either.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ‘‘Silver King.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Gaiety Burlesque.
Theatre Royal Maggie Moore Co.
Bijou .. “Niobe.”
Opera House Alabama Minstrels.
Alexandra Comedy Co.
■ A, m * programme, which consists prin-
cipally of the versatile John Gourlay, occupies
Sydney Garrick this week. This copious enter-
tainment is not, strictly speaking, a comedy, nor
a variety show, nor a nigger production; but it
embodies one comedy-drama, one howlsome farce
and a concert and some melodrama and ballet in
between. “Milky White,” the first item on the bill,
was started on Saturday night amid unbounded
enthusiasm, which was still enthusiastic but not
quite so unbounded towards the end. What
makes the audience cool off towards the end
is the fact that “Milky White” is one of
those old English dramas in which all the charac-
ters join hands at the end and precipitate them-
selves towards the footlights, where they stand in
a row—including the widow and the lout —while
the reformed cowkeeper delivers a few moral
observations to the audience. Apart from that,
there is no ground for objection. Mr. Gourlay
strikes a responsive chord all through as the most
mercurial and cantankerous little man who ever
threw his daughter into the street from the high-
est motives. Also, he demonstrates that it is
sharper than a serpent’s tooth to live in a parlour
which has walls on three sides only, and on the
fourth side a whitewashed fence, so that the cows
can put their heads through the opening and
get their horns entangled in the piano.
Mr. George Walton and Miss Amy Gourlay are
the other two praiseworthy features in the piece,
and the latter lifts up a sweet little voice in song,
only there is hardly enough of the voice for her
purpose, and faints in quite a new and much im-
proved attitude. Later on Mr. Gourlay runs a
successful melodrama all by himself, being got up
as the devilish villain in black on one side of him,
and the shrinking, golden-haired maiden in pale-
blue on the other; and does a turn as a robustious
and leggy ballet-girl, the awful thuds of whose
extremities are suggestive of a she-fiend breaking
cocoa-nuts with her feet. Somebody ought to lead
Mr. Gourlay gently aside by the hair and urge bun
to leave out this ballet-girl.
* * m
The “Living Models,” which made Satur-
day’s audience wear its umbrella to a stump in
applause, is & fare© b&sed on the wogs of two
snuffling old men, who, having gone into devious
ways in search of strange girls, are reduced to
get into a Roman toga apiece, and pass themselves
off as two unfinished statues ; while their deceived
wives remark that their legs are out of drawing,
and the daughter of the more unfinished of the
two statues, disguised in bov’s clothes, throws
water at her unnatural parent. The hand of Fate
also drives the wives into some species of classic
costume, which exhibits their shoulders in a reck-
less fashion, and causes a bust with a wreath on
its head to use bad language, and a lay figure to
protest in broad Scotch. Eventually, the principal
statue, in a Roman toga and a bell-topper, organ-
ises a rush for the door, and being captured on the
threshold something of an undefined but horrible
character happens to him, and he is led away
home. Messrs. Walton and Baxter—the latter
more particularly — make a lavish hit as
the two statues, and winsome Miss Bessie
Rignold, especially in her disguise as the perky
youth who cleans up, is a bright vision and a
gleam of sunshine generally. The Gourlay and
Walton combination gives material enough for
two shows at the same price, and there are only
two dull spots in the programme—one of the said
spots being a female who sings a distressing song
with the music clutched in both hands, and whose
endeavours to fix her vision on the song, and to
cast a witching glance at the gallery at the same
time, are painful to witness. No lady can sing
with one eye while she smiles at the gods with the
other; and in her efforts to do this she generally
loses her place in the music; besides, nobody seems
to know what the song is about.
-;K- * * *
Gleuloth’s win in the Melbourne Cup has
lent additional point to the moral of the “silver
King, which is that the horse is uncertain and
transitory here below. Mr. Rignold’s show con-
tinues to be a bright spot on the social horizon,
and if it doesn’t improve much it is because there
is very little room for improvement. Perhaps
Father Xmas grows a little better as time goes on •
it is hard to say. This ancient perjurer and house-
breaker is Mr. Shine’s greatest effort. He
looks just like the honest, retired seaman Who
looms up in so many picture books as the
superannuated secret of Britain’s greatness,
and his dirt, and his profoundly paternal
manner, and the haste with which he turns Queen’s
evidence, all help to increase the resemblance
Anyone who watches Ad. Scott’s British mariner
as he shivers his timbers in George street, Sydney
on a Saturday night, and then studies Father
Xmas, must recognise that the latter is just that
same manner grown old anfl disreputable and
flushed about the nose. Jaikes is as lachrymose
as ever, and this good but tearful old man is mora
depressing than all the wicked characters put
together. Wo would like to see the “Silver
King ” played, just for once, with a cheerful
Jaikes—if the faithful old servant of the stage
isn’t bound over in heavy recognisances to bo
melancholy at all times and under all circum-
stances.
* -* *
The fact that Britain s heir-apparent has
had a birthday this week doesn’t seem to
galvanise the Sydney music-halls and other
variety shows. The time was when the circum-
stance of Wales being twelve months older used
to shod a sort of radiance over the business and
lead managers to come out regardless of expense,
but these days are over. A few of them have put
on anew song or anew nigger, but that is about
all, and nothing short of Wales becoming 14<t
years of age all at once would make them come out
ni the gorgeous fashion of long ago. For all tins
results that are apparent, Wales might as well
give up having birthdays in this country.
** * #
Owing to an unfortunate miscarriage, our
Melbourne show notices have not come to hand in
time for publication in this issue.
** * *
Adelaide I heatre Royal has lately been
run by Hairy Rickards at reduced prices. Even
this concession, however, doesn’t catch the dress-
circle people who spent a year’s dramatic allow-
ance over the Gaiety company and Mrs. Bernard
Beere— glorious combination I —at advanced rates,
f t the profession ” wishes to succeed in Adelaide
it must bare its legs and shoulders.
At Poverty Point.
wK daUß^ ei ' , of a well-known Mel!,, bank director is
adnig a hewchus actor such a life that he seriously con-
templates applying- to a magistrate, or a clergyman or
somebody m authority, for an order to protect him from
her amorous advances. 111
The children of John Young, the Collins-street jeweller
foi m a considerable addition tothepopulationof stage-land’
The popular Florence and her brother, Fred., arc with the
f 1 .9jV al 9P era Go Jimmy (aged 14) with the Pollard
nvetFv' whlle M . l,be ’ the second girl, said to be as
pietty and as promising as her sister, debuts at the
panto, at Christmas. Harry, the eldest, is also well-
known as an amateur entertainer a la “ Mr. Atkinson.”
Handsome Jennie Opie, the wayward “ Lady Learning
ton, appeared with Tommy Hudson’s Co. at Adelaide
OnlTn a e S - We T ek , and appropriately sang “Dearest and
• y m Jenme has been living at Petersburg, S A
since the Tasmanian episode.
t ‘‘,L U^ ed t 0 run singers ;at present I run lecturers ; but
I must draw-the hue at whistlers,” said It. S. Smythe
when a London agent asked him if he would take Alice
Which reminds us that the beautiful
Mane Vanderveer Greene was a splendid whistler.
! rho Linden orchestra project, which hangs fire, is a
scheme for importing cheap German labour at a time
when musicians are endeavouring to get the Melbourne
Town Hall on charitable terms.
Alice Leamar—it is said, by the way, that Mr A
Learner has gone off to America—took the cake for human
(hi H- St ri n De r by , Day ' As Alice promenaded in front of
the Mand, or took a steady “pipe-opener” on the lawn
the women watched her with mingled admiration and
even° r nff T H 616 ? a look P f chronic “ Ta-ra-ra” about Alice,
• th ,® sta £ e ’ and Lou never feel certain that the
nbfvs ThV go i U f t 0 s - tart klckin K next time the band
plays. This awful misgiving was in no wise quieted by
4 b ? e s n el \? h , at ’ °,? the tme “Ta-ra-ra” fashion, and
tied under her dear little chin with ribbons, as thou’di to
keep it from flying away when she got fairly on the job.
The unusual sight of George Leitch playing a deeply
pathetic part was, the other night, altogether too much
f°‘ a , eccentric Townsville legal functionary, George’s
with h . a H r - rend,n jf • sc l e ?,® s w e re constantly interrupted
"vvu n r a dn " k? atld Jarful enquiries as to
do I - come ln? Recollections of “Paul Jones”
a P. Mosquito Island ” overcame George, who trembled
'.'®‘ l ‘ Iy> 1 y> bl,t > recovering himself, the co.’s chucker-out was
signalled, and the inebriate cast into outer darkness.
Miss Henrietta Watson is not yet 20 years of age.
Snazelle’.sadvt:, pasted up on the South Sea cocoa-nut
Hearken I the n fDve Hearken ! Hearken!!
Hearken ! . He comes ! He comes ! ! The Great Kino*
WmS? Th 18 here ‘, He . is th( ; Lal, e h Doctor of the
Whites. The man who makes Kings merry and Queens
rejoice. Snazello the Rogo Rogo Vinaka. ’’ The bill vvent
andanthnd at f th V^ IC ! ; E St P. ,0 P net Y must be observed,
and anybody found in the circle without his nose-rino-
w°'“d be ejected, and his cocoa-nuts wouldn’t be returned
at tne door.
of flowers nightly dumped at the large
Pmi 0 T?„ rt ?, Gaie * ty B oddesses calls to mind a yarn about
“ r nn da ”% A ,l a Pa f. e y concert, after bassooning
Lucy Long for the rmlhoneth time, Phil, was handed
up a huge wreath of beautiful pink flowers, whose long
pink streamers bore the names of Phil, and Lucy. The
only bassooner wore it on his left arm round the town and
a the way home. Asked what he was going to do with
it, Phil, answered : Get it dipped in blue ink and have it
handed up as violets next time !”
James Harvey, the well-known mimic and dancer, is the
ThM’s’wh!’ t Can f d f an T 9 Stor cy’ s dances as well as Storey.
That s why the astute James Cassius has bagged him for
the coming panto. , 68
Tom Collins ;: “The voices of the chorus are supplied by
the gross, and their vices by the bushel.” y
of poe t ms year SinCe Kate Bishop P ublish ed her little book
1 *;!•"; 1,1 n elly i tb ® cieinal Australian Mikado, is said to
be distantly related to the Duke of Wellington. Compare
y.Wli'uiink h likely 0 ' 1 “ ° f ° akey ’ 8 k and
G.orge Anson began at 15s. a week in Toole’s company,
and gave up a Foreign Office bi’lat to do it.
William Rignold tells an Era man ; “ The Australian is
an enthusiastic playgoer. If one may say so, he is too
enthusiastic. If he likes a piece, he conies night after
night. He will come every night for a week, and then he
is satiated and must needs have something else. The
pro! lem of theatrical management out there is most
difficult, and has yet to be solved. The Australian will
not have a mean production. He must have everythina-
of the very best.” William complains that globe-trotters
are continually jerking in with—“ This is not as good as
it was in London,” and Australians become dissatisfied
What seems least popular in Australia is the • society ’
drama.” *
Despite hard times, Bland Holt has crowded houses
every night in Newcastle. He stops four weeks. He is
the only histnon who can profitably hold the boards in
Newcastle over a week A feature in his show is the
clever soling of Miss Blanche Read, a ten-year-old me
cocity of local growth whom Holt discovered and for
whom he predicts a great future.
Young Haydn Parry’s comic operetta, “Cigarette” is
catching on, as it deserves to do (writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent), for it is one of the most melodious
pieces of work heard for a longtime. Parry has Quite
caught the Offenhachian method, and his choruses and
concerted pieces are worthy of all praise. The book is
however, very poor, and quite unworthy of the author’,
Warham St. Leger, who is really a clever fellow. Geraldine
Ulmai now plays the leading part (screw, LBO a week)
and the Begum Amadi—formerly Miss Treherne, or some
such name, of (he Gaiety, who married some coffee-
coloured sw eh—is the second string. She sings and acts
admirably, she is know nin “ sassiety ” indifferently as
the Begum or (lie Princess ” Amadi.


THE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is A
PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY,
all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
over all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS,. SYDNEY”, N.S.W.
BURROUGHES
- AND—
WATTS, LTD -
BILLIAR-D TABLE
M ANUF ACTURERS.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS on HAND
Time Payments if Required.
S—JAMIESON LANE—S
sv i>m;v.
Charlie Harding is going to be a hig-wig in the musical
world. He has been engaged in London by Lago (a very
keen judge) for a year for £4O a week, and after hearing
him practising several times Lago extended the engage-
ment for another year at double that salary. Harding will
probably play in “ Maritana,” “ The Bohemian Girl,” and
“The Magic Flute.”
As Madame Marches! predicted, Frances Saville’s
Juliette (at the Theatre de la Monnaie—Opera House—
Brussels) made an enormous hit. The beautifuj little
Australee woman is destined to shine brightly in the
operatic firmament.
The London cry is “ Still more music-halls.” The latest
proposal is to build a monster one in St. Martin’s-lane,
not far from the Empire—to capture the overflow of the
Alhambra and Empire.
“ The Queen of Manoa,” writes Tub Bulletin’s London
correspondent, by last mail, plays up much closer than it
did the first few nights, but it still leaves much to be
desired. It draws good houses, but people really go lo
see Mrs. Langtry’s gowns and diamonds, as they did to
“The Fringe of Society.” But, after all, the stock of
gobemouches is soon exhausted, and a new piece is
already in preparation to succeed “The Queen of Manoa.”
In this, the Langtry will play the part of a “business lady,”
which, as she is one of the keenest women in the world as
regards £ s. d., should suit her down to the ground.
The jewels she wears in one scene of “The Queen of
Manoa ” are said (for advertising purposes) to bo w irth
over £Bo,ooo—who suffered ?—and a detective is con-
stantly on guard at the stage-door.
Among the Meston-Puroell blacks is the King of Prince
of Wales Island. Purcell is teaching him baccarat, against
the time of his inevitable meeting with the other Wales.
Our London correspondent has some doubts whether
Lionel Rignold will make a hit in Australia. In the
“ English Rose ” he depicts to the life a character very
common in England, but which is probably unknown here.
Albert Chevalier was a frost at Manchester because they
didn’t understand New Cut coster lingo there.
A good tip in theatrical advertising is given by Jean
Middlemiss in her latest novel, “ How I became Eminent.”
The hero is a young actor, one Henry Yandeleur, run by
a Yankee, who circulates all sorts of pars, to the effect
that Yandeleur is a lunatic—followed, of course, by cer-
tificates from medical men that he has broken down hope-
lessly. Yandeleur insists, notwithstanding, upon his per-
fect sanity, and determines to play Hamlet at all hazards.
Curiosity'is aroused, the theatre is packed, and Yande-
leur makes a big boom.
Two Italian journalists, named Biasoli and Poggiani,
lately gave a benefit to the distressed poor of Verona, and
realised a large sum. The show consisted of the two
pressmen drinking a bottle of wine in a cage occupied
by five lions, and all Verona paid to see them eaten, and
was disappointed. A circus with four lions is about to
visit Sydney, and if Editor Curnow, of the S.M. Herald,
will K o into the cage in the good cause, Tub Bulletin
doesn’t mind sending a representative along with him.
Frank Thornton again invades Australia. Date yet
unfixed, but it will not be ere he has drawn a big cheque
out of Hawtrey. Not alone did H. break his contract,
but he put up Penley to play Rev. Robert Spalding in
“The Private Secretary,” which Frank naturally feels
was a serious professional reflection upon him.
About ten male and female aborigines were lately
recruited in and around Townsville district by Cunning-
ham, a Yankee showman, concerning whose alleged treat-
ment of his black charges on the voyage to’Frisco The
Bulletin lately printed a letter. Before taking them out
of the province, however, he was called upon by Queens-
land Government to provide a bond for £5OO, given by a
local man, ensuring the safe return of the party, which
included, by the way, a “Lady Jane” and the “ Hon.
William Queensland.” The Bulletin is informed that the
local tradesman who gave the bond in question has since
filed his insolvency petition. The bond was duly drawn
up and executed, and set out that should Cunningham
fail to return the blacks to the district, within five years,
then £5OO was to he paid to Government by the bonds-
man, unless (sarcasm!) good and sufficient reasons were
given for “failure herein." A winter residence amid the
snow of Chicago will probably furnish all necessary
reasons. But if that does not satisfy the Government,
how does it propose to get £5OO out of a liquidated
trader? This is rather a conundrum to the cognoscenti
concerning Northern liquidations.
Leamar will, after all, take a leading part in Williamson
and Musgrove’s Sydney panto., and take it well. The
little woman is an adept at pantomime “ go.”
Dust, pulmonary fatal dust, is said to account for so
many professionals being turned into that article at
Johannesburg, South Africa. These fatalities recall Ingle-
wood (Vic.) in the old times, when Miss Herbert, Graham,
and Webster fell victims there.
The events of Miss Emilia Woods’ over-crowded Sydney
Town Hall benefit were the giddy boom-de-ay bow, twice-
repeated, by a young lady vocalist in return for encores,
and the perching of a weeping small boy, with his hands
dug into his eyes, on a piano-stool while his fond parents
were requested to “come forward.” They did, but until
then most people thought the youngster was a ventrilo-
quial “ Master Billy ” figure.
Mr. Max Heuzenroeder and Mr. H. C. Evans, of Ade-
laide, are sawing-out an “Australian comic opera, with
plenty of local colour,” in which the bunyip figures.
Which recalls, in a roundabout way, a “comic” opera
produced at Government House, Sydney, a few years ago,
during the Oaringtonian regime, by two Scotchmen,
named Moser and Maclean. Mac.’s part, the music, which
comprised some very pretty airs, was all right enough,
but Moser’s humour—O, Moses ! The alleged satire was
directed against Australian muscle-worship, and one pare
of the dialogue (thrown, not at an audience of slaughter-
men, mind you, but at a fashionable, V-shaped lot of
people) ran “ Oh, what’s the use of this fellow—he’s as
narrow-chested as a curlew!” “But he has plenty of
pluck” “Yes, but what’s the use of pluck without
lights?” That was the only time The Bulletin ever
visited Government House—in the hope of seeing Moser
poll-axed. We have carefully avoided the beastly vulgar
place ever since.
Emetic from an Argus musical “criticism ” “In the
last number, embracing three items, the diversity and
plasticity of Madame Pabst’s style were exhibited in her
interpretation of the tripping music of Rameau’s gavotte,
of the quaintly pretty phrasing of Heller’s ‘Zur Guitarre,’
and of her husband’s musical poem, entitled ‘ Fairies in
the Moonlight,’ forming one section of his ‘Night Voices.’
It described, in the picturesque language of the instru-
ment, the shimmer of moonlight on the rippling waters of
a forest lake, the rustle of a faint breeze among the
hedges, and the fantastic movements of a throng of little
elfin creatures in the long grass and among the night-
blowing flowers. It was so sympathetically rendered that
it was followed by an enthusiastic encore, in response to
which Madame Pabsi played what might be called another
canto from the same poem, full of graceful fancies and
suggestions of images of old romance, such as are
called up when reading Hood’s ‘ Plea of the Midsummer
Fairies.’ ”
Dear Bulletin,— Your Melbourne dramatic critic in-
clines to think that Marian Mitchell is a “ recent star ” in
the juvenile opera constellation. Now, lam sure that
Sydneyites are not likely soon to forget the finish—equal
to that of Alice Rees—with which she sang “ Poor Wan-
dering One ” as Mabel, in the “ Pirates,” last December.
I don’t think she toured Maoriland with the company,
most of whom were polished old stagers when they
appeared in Sydney, and fancy that her first appearance
on any stage was as Nanki-Poo—which she fairly mur-
dered through nervousness—at the Criterion—Yours,
Habitue.
The Sydney University boys brought Congreve’s “ Love
for Love” up to date. Par exemple Tattle: “Nilus?
Who was he—a J.P, ?” Jeremy: “No, nothing so low as
that.”
A recent success in London, “ La Statue du Com man-
deur,” is stolen from the French, of course. Plot con-
sists in a giddy and hiccupy johnny solemnly asking a
big, bronze statue to come home and sup with two pretty
girls; to his surprise the figure lumbers down from its
pedestal and comes. Itis the statue of a man who was very
thirsty when alive, and the idea of supper and two females
wakes up the dissipated image in an alarming fashion.
In act 2 it is drinking copiously and hugging the girls;
m act 3 a hornoly intoxicated statue, with its hat on one
side and its toga up about its ears, is prowhng through
th f streets looking for its pedestal and not find g it. It
fifets so mad at last over its ill-success that it stumps back
t,o the scene of revelry, and strangles its host as he s’eeps
amonfr the emp ty bottles and the victuals, and the cur-
tain comes down with the bronze gorgon sleepily winking
an( j no dding at the deceased, who sits in the opposite
chair and glares hack at him.
Labouchere ’ s management of the Queen’s Theatre,
London, was unlucky, hut an extraordinary galaxy of
incipient stars and managers was gathered-Irving,
Toole, Wyndhatn, Clayton, L. Brough, Miss Ntilson.
„ Dearer Than Life •> was thus remarkably cast, and the
Q ueen ’g jg a ] so associated with Mrs. Housby, in “Joan of
J .. and Geo Rignold as Caliban.
& &
Wellington (M.L.) Opera House syndicate also hold the
Theatre Roya ] at the other end of the city, but wish it
were no t ; n existence, as the leading shareholders are
publicans, &c., surrounding the former. They charge
£4O per week for the Royal to act as a bar to its letting.
Such is monopoly.
Gaylord, well remembered here as advance-agent for
Amer ; can circuses, tells, in Hong Kong, a yarn about
B arnum and Jumbo. Barnum paid £lOOO to get up the
bogus action, to stay Jumbo’s departure from the London
£ OO When Jumbo lay down, so that he might not be
separated from Alice it was all a trick ot the keeper,
gc £ ttj who was paid £l2 a week by Barnum. Jumbo
raised the clear profits of Barnum’s show by £BO,OOO in
t he year,
Harry Rickards did poor business at Adelaide Royal,
We can * t rem ember a Variety Co. making money there,
.. c of London Re , eree> gushes violently over
J( b „ a oratorio by Dl . Hubert Parry . with quite
otrlnWugh
b ew them as we may.” Th s, adds the enlightened
enthusiast, “dispeses of the ridiculous suggestion in a
i ead insr daily paper that it is meant to represent the
worldly possessions of the patriarch.” The ilea of it
being possible to mistake the musical symbol of Provi-
dence for a mere sordid suggestion of Job’s “sugar ” is
droll enough, but the deeper joke lies in “ Carados’” in-
genuous statement that he has Dr. Parry s authority for
stating the real meaning of that majestic theme He is
careful not to divulge his own early impressions of the
permeating melody. Possibly he mistook it for the voice
of Job’s mother-in-law raising lofty ructions in the back-
ground.
iy-W I. t« «k whether the
N.S.W. Ministry have paid to their omcial
pal, Mr. Waller, and a friend of his, the sum
0 f ,£lOOO or any other sum, and if so, what it was
£ Qr ?
‘ . , i,
The fact that the two members Ot a well-
known Sydney legal firm happen to bear the same
names as Macnamara and Nathan, of Abigail’s
bank celebrity, has exposed the lawyers in question
to no end of rough chaff.
Afc a London banquet, Sir Henry Loch
expressed his belief that the gold-mines of
j ohannes burg would soon yield £9,000,000 worth
of that metal per annum, and thus tend to counter-
balance the low price of si ver.
Significant that Sir br. .Republican DibbS,
un( j er an erroneous impression that it had been
movec j reduce a vote by the amount of his
travelling expenses, objected to the withdrawal of
the imaginary amendment ! Is it to be another
session, and another shuffling of the
capitalistic cards !
qq le sequels no doubt to some of the “ will
kind gentleman lend young widow fS » advertise-
rnents that used to give a tone to the columns ot
a Sydney evening paper are now being Published
in that journal in the form of sensational accounts
of the discoveries of numerous bodies, more or less
decomposed, in the backyards of abandoned baby-
farms.
, , , -, ■»
Apropos last weeks cable that a mail
charged with murder has, in a ’Frisco court,
crea t e d a sensation by acting, while hypnotised,
tbe details of the crime, a London writer savs :
‘‘Few people have any idea of this mysterious
force, and when you remember that you have only
to lay a slate-pencil on the shoulder of a hypno-
tised patient, and to impress upon him that it is a
re d-hot iron, in order to produce an absolute burn,
wb ioh the patient feels acutely when he awakes,
oan i ma gine what that power must mean.”
J , .... . ~ ,
At the Abigail trial, Sitting in the place
reserved to the elect on the floor of the Court,
were j wo well-known persons who had served
b heir four and three years (for incendiarism and
Sury) respectively as thi outcome of separate
trials, in which at the time great interest was
taken. It seemed as though this place had some
strange fascination for these men, and that they
jj a( j co , ne there to enjoy seeing others in the dock
an j tb e sense of their own freedom. And one of
them had gone there, perhaps, to gloat over the
spectacle of his ancient enemy dying on his feet
in the Court. Poor little Abigail, who not long
s i nce as a member of the N.S.W. Council, neces-
sarjjy took part in sending more than one man to
gallows, looked a pitiable object as his little,
emaciated hands convulsively clutched his hand-
, i• r anr i whole body trembled during the
. ’ ~l inHcro While awaiting trial
summing-up of the Judge. W rule awaiting trial,
he seemed to have little in common with the
other accused, who were a worldly lot,_ and when
j oo k e d up he constantly pored over his Bible for
conso i a t;j on . The Bulletin, when it first showed
fV»p world the wavs and m©thods of tho Aus-
to the world the ways ana mectious ui tue aus
trahan Banking Co., Limited, tendered to Abigail
(though perhaps not in an over-friendly spirit)
some excellent advice, of which it is a great pity
he did not avail himself. There is little doubt felt
that he will in the long run have a considerable
fc of j,j g sen tence remitted.
PROOF.
Junius B. St or rue r (log.):
I’ve trod Australian boards since ’54,
My name his been in ROM \NS at the top ;
/’replayed with Brooke—and now like many move
I want a “ shop.”
The proof! You ask for proof of what I say
That I’m a Sydney actor—don’t you think
It’s proof when, minus shirt, I cannot pay
For e’en a drink?
W. A. S.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Every horse to his trade! The owner of
Glenloth, winner of Melbourne Cup, run amidst rain, is
a milkman. The watery day therefore suited his beast.
# * *
Is it for nothing, ye punters, that “Glenloth
and “ Gone to Hell ” are composed of the same letters .
* * #
Chaffey Baker, M.L.C., the boss of Adelaide
National Ass, dreamt Glenloth for the Cup, and hacked
him for a heavy sum.
# • *
Glenloth was a restored invalid, and yet he won
over the heaviest going ever known. Even his trainer
had concluded he was no stayer.
9 * *
Bookmaker Joseph thinks that only from
£150,000 to £lBO,OOO was wagered, by the hooks, on the
Melbourne Cup. Oxcn’iam says his book was only
£20,000 as against £50,000 in a former yea-.
9 9*
The prize-winners in Tatt.’s £llOO,OOO sweep :
Glenloth (£27,000), J. Layton, Pinkilla Station, Adavale,
Queensland ; Ronda (9000), J. Cook, Imperial Hotel, York,
W.A. ; Penance (£4500), P. H. Maloney, Orara R.,
Grafton, N.S.W. The fortunate drawer of Glenloth did
not hedge a penny through Tatr. ! The holder of Malvolio,
a Sydney man living at William-street, Paddington,
hedged all he knew.
9 9*
Of the “big money” in Tattersall’s sweeps,
Queensland took £36,000 ; N.S. Wales, £21,318 ; Victoria,
£22,392 ; W. Australia, £9OOO ; Maoriland, £9OOO ; S. Aus-
tralia, £2700.
* * *
Jimmy Ashworth, John Tait’s old jockey, died
last week at Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, from the
effects of an accident at Warwick Farm. With him has
gone probably the last of the old-time jocks;
The Jewish Herald, Melb. complains of talk-
ing in Synagogue. “ Worshippers were even heard to
discuss the prospects of the different horses engaged in
certain races ; ” and elsewhere, “ Our race is in imminent
peril.” No fear. Their race always comes out on the
right side.
9 9 *
While waitingforCupnewsat Sydney Tattersall’s
each of 30 bookmakers and horsey-men (all in “ the
know ”)“ placed the horses.” Notone picked Glenloth
or Ronda for a place, and Penance was allotted third
place by one only. Yet all the savants knew it was rain-
ing in Melbourne!
* » *
Fifty thousand coupons were sent into a Mel-
bourne newspaper office to tip the Melbourne Cup first
three, but not one exactly struck them.
* # #
Glenloth, in about the biggest sweep, was
hawked in vain for £2OO, while Malvolio sold for £l5OO.
# * #
The stupidity of the Melbourne tote-punters!
Threepence in the shilling was annexed in the ordinary
way by some men who ran a machine on the flat at Caul-
field. It happened that tor one of the races on Cup
(Caulfield) Day there were eleven investors, who all bought
a shilling ticket for the same horse. The popular fancy
delighted the eleven idiots by winning in a canter, and
when they went up to collect their div. the tote yielded
them back 9d. apiece. They had each paid 3d. for the
privilege of spotting a dead-bird.
• * *
It is stated by those “in the know ” that N.S.
Wales contributes less money to big sweeps than either
Queensland or Victoria.
# • *
The Sydney totes pay an average of 40 per
cent, more than'the prices laid on the course on Melbourne
Cup day. After deducting 10 per cent, commission, and
the sum left for second and third horses, one gets an idea
of the rosy time the books, have had. And yet you hear
half-a-dozen of them cursing their bad luck, because they
each laid one wager of £33 to 1 against the winner.
# # #
Melbourne telegram received by a certain
Sydnev M.Pi on Cup morning : “ Raining like h—l.”
t * *
Hales hands the reins to Huxley.
* * *
No handicapper like the rain, mud, and slush.
Assyrian’s victory over again.
# • •
Surely Wallace, Wilson, Hordern, and others,
who are going to such expense and trouble with their
breeding establishments, must have foreseen the proba-
bility of the totalisator becoming law ! How then account
for the argument that it would ruin the turf ?
* * *
Donald Wallace is a bit of a Scotchman in his
way. When Mentor won the Cup he paid Hickinbotham
his share of the stakes, according to agreement, less a
proportion of the cost of the entrance and acceptance
fees. Hick., however, got square with him, by holding
out for his share of the value of the £l5O prize.
9 9*
Since Tattersall first started his sweeps, a certain
Sydney solicitor has invested £2 in each one. His luck is
phenomenal: he has drawn one first horse, two seconds,
four thirds, several starters and non-starters.
• • •
When the late metallician, Bill Branch, was
doing business on Melbourne Cup at the Victoria Club,
Melb., a certain high postal official of another province
used to wire every day to him: “ Good morning, my dear
friend. Hope you are well. What do you think of So-
and-so’s chance ? Put a tenner on your fancy for me ;
also, a tenner on, &c., &c. Hope you have good win.”
But don’t suppose these messages were paid for. Oh, no;
they were sent as “official memos.,” and rushed through
at the expense of messages which were paid for.
* * *
The V.R.C. is fencing in the flat at Flemington
to keep out “ undesirable characters ” —one objectionable
tout in particular, who threatens to peg out a claim on
the track right opposite the grandstand. The club says
that it has no intention of charging for admission to the
flat, hut when the fence is up, it is ten to one they’ll go
for “ the gate.”
* * *
The Victorian Champion Fours race turned out
a fiasco, owing to all the boats fouling at the start, except
the Yarra Yarra, which crew jumped to the front and
finished leading by half-a-dozen lengths. The race was
re-rowed on Derby Day, when no accidents took place,
but with the result that the same crew won somewhat
more easily than before, in 18m. 12s. This is their third
year in succession.
# # *
Some titled London “ sports ” are subscribing
fora testimonial to Peter Jackson, for having thrashed
five roughs who insulted a barmaid. Had some con-
sumptive individual taken herpart and got knocked about
tor his trouble, they would probably have said it served
him right. The world greases the fat pig.
The Sydney morning papers have evidently
entered into a compact to boycott prize-fights. The boy-
cott, however, only extends to local prize-fights. The
most exciting match can take place in Australia without a
word being said about it in either the S.M. Herald or the
Daily Telegraph. But even the Herald prints a London
cablegram to the effect that Jim Hall and Fitzsimmons
are going to fight at New York for £5OOO, and that
Mitchell will also fight Corbett there for iOOOO. Every-
thing, even pugilistic news, is sacred, if it comes from
or via ’Orae.
# * *
Is there anything in that rumor that a Sydney
club, backed up by a wealthy patron, is trying to get
Lyons, the burly Adelaide cricketer, to leave for Sydney?
Jack Lyons has a temporary billet on Adelaide census
staff, which may shortly terminate, but his Adelaide
friends will not let him go without fighting.
• # #
The initial meeting of the N.S W. Trotting
Association is fixed for 16th inst., and in the interest of
that really noble animal, the trotting horse, it is to be
hoped an effort will be made to raise (he sport from that
slough of day and electric-light robbery into which it has
fallen. Under the old regime no effort was made to
cleanse the sport when opportunity offered. As an
instance, for months, aye years, a certain I ruse ran
nowhere and then he came out at the Driving Park one
day and starting from scratch fairly distanced his field,
yet his owner was not even cautioned. And there are a
dozen other cases equally bad. To meet these things the
Association should reserve the right to put up its own
rider and prove the speed of an animal.
* * *
A man was fined nnd heartily bullied in Mel-
bourne the other day, at (he instance Of a Society for the
prevention of cruelty to animals, or something of the
kind, for having “sooled ” his fox-terrier on to a cat.
The defendant hadn’t sense enough to insist that his deg
was a greyhound and the cat a hare.
* * *
At a recent W.A. dog-show, an exhibitor
entered two canines W'hich he believed were bull-terriers.
Anyhow’, they were full brother and sister, and of the
same age, and so he naturally entered them in the same
class. The bitch somehow possessed a long and tufted
tail, which failed to escape the eye of the judge, a tre-
mendously doggy man, who sagely remarked : “There is
a mistake heah. This is not a terriah ;itis a pointah,”
and straightway replaced the bull-terrier ticket with one
marked “pointer.” Result: First prize for the dog as
bull-terriah ; likewise?, first prize for the bitch as pointah.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Some weeks ago you gave an
account of the injuries rce Led by Billy Warbrick at
football. The list of o>] onen s injured by him would be
interesting. I know one. T' e Maoris were trying an
Australian game, and Billy, r aidless or ignoiant of
rules, rushed a pbvrr vailing far a “mark,” and met
him with both hands fu'l in the dust. “Ugh [thought
I was going to he in lime to I c to We,” grunted (he
champion. The other was s.> cadeagle-d, and since suffeis
from pulmonary ailments.—The Orphan.
# # *
A new dodge. An impecuniou ■ northern sport
wrote to several people, informing ihem that they had
been elected president of the Blank Cricket Chib. Several
replied, sending the usual guinea to the writer, w'ho
Signed himself secretary, The coin has been melted, but
the club has not yet been found.
# * *
Only two drunks were lumbered at Melbourne
Cup, and none on Derby Day. Moral—what?
* • »
Bookmaker Sutton’s new Ailesbury wife is six
feet high. And Sutton is now either Deerhurst’s uncle or
Deerhurst is his.
# # *
HTbe Cooparoo Racing Club, near Brisbane, lias
gone into liquidation or something like that. Anyhow, it
has not paid the stakes for the last couple of meetings
and does not intend to.
tt # #
What is there to prevent a man from starting a
broken-down cart-horse, with a Chinaman up, for Mel-
bourne Cup ? It would be a good patent-medicine ad. ?
* * *
One King-street (Sydney) “tote” issued over
9000 tickets between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Cup Day.
m * *
The Otago Witness (M.L. ) reports that the
Dunedin Hunt Club has met with a misfortune. This
reckless crowd of Nimrods used to chase after a hare-skin
which was dragged over a rough country at the end of a
string. A tame kangaroo used to sleep on the hare-skin
to make it “high,” and therefore the institution called
itself a Kangaroo Club ; but the marsupial was shot, the
other day for trying to rip up its owner, and now, for
want of being slept on, the flavour has gone out of the
hare-skin, and the dogs won’t follow it any longer, and
the club is all broken up.
* * *
“Jim” is Malvolio’s stable name-like Miss
Montmorency of the stage, proper name Smith.
# # #
At Mentone (Vic.) races, Radoo won the
handicap, but the race was given to Submission, because
Radoo started in front of the post. Only two stewards
decided, inasmuch as the others had been betting, and
the Y.R.C. holds the dec sion invalid. Here is racing
w'ith a moral.
• * *
Rumoured that somebody lately tried to get
Larry Foley to volunteer for missionary work in China.
Probably a lie.
* # #
Two months ago the cable flashed that Ferris,
playing for the Gentlemen versus Players,had (aken (i wickets
for 71 runs. But professional Lockwood bowled 8 wickets
for 72, same match.
A few days before the Brisbane double-
hanging, the condamne Gleeson intimated to the
gaoler that he would like to give a “ last supper ”
to his fellow-hangee Moncado, and wrote out the
following luxurious mend ;
“Sucking-pig stuffed with pork-sausages, stuffing made
w'ith breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, thyme, sage, parsley,
butter, yolk of Iw'o eggs ; sauce, brains of calf or sheep,
flour, salt, pepper," parsley, butter. Entree.—Rump
steak, with walnut and poaohed-eggs. Vegetables.—
Green-peas carrots lib., turnips lib., beans Hb.,
cauliflower. Salad.—Cucumber, with boiled eggs. Boiled
cabinet-pudding.—l 2 eggs, lib. sultanas, lib. raising lib.
currants, candied lemon-peel, essence lemon. Plum-
nudding.—llb. suet, 1 dozen eggs, bottle rum, flour, 21b.
loaf bread, small packet baking-powder. Fruit.—Bananas,
oranges, pineapples, American apples. Lemonade, 6
bottles ; 61b. white loaf-sugar, 171 b. pound cake, 3 packets
cigarettes, 2 dozen cigars.”
The request was not complied with, probably
because the authorities suspected in it an attempt
to cheat the gallows by means of “suicide through
blowing-out.” Gleeson declared that, once the
banquet was off his mind ho intended to devote
the rest of his life “to prayer and mi dilation”
—not indigestion.
“JIMMY ASHWORTH.”
His last race is over, God send 'twas a u in
And that when he rides to the gate.
In the yellow and black, for the final “ weigh in,”
The clerk may declare Ashworth “ weight.”
And then when he reaches the place of the shades;
And dons the celestial garb,
I pray he may meet in elysian glades
Old John and the black-coated Barb. •
And further I hope, if they fancy such things
Where lightly on pinions they float,
They will leave poor old Jimmy minus lire wings
And give him instead a red coat.
So that when my last race is ridden and o’er
He’ll come as of old down the rails,
And jog by my side as he used to of yore
As I ride to the heavenly scales.
KENNEPH MA[?][?]AY


For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe's Schnapps.
“ ELECTRICITY IS
LIFE.”
PULYERMACHER'S
WORLD-
FAMED
Have received Testimonials from THREE PHYSICIANS to HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN, the ACADEMIE DE MEDECINE
ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON :
of Paris, and the following- members of the
Dr. C. HANDFIEf.D JONES, St. Mary’s Hospital
Dr. GOLDING HIED, Guy's Hospital
Dr. JONATHAN PEREIRA, London Hospital
Dr. T. \V. NUNN, Middlesex Hospital
Dr. R. M. LAURENCE, Groat Northern Hospital
Dr. J. R. REYNOLDS, University Hospital
Dr. R. QUA IN, Brompton Hospital
Dr. H. ALLBUTT, Leeds Hospital
Dr. JAMES WILSON, Worcester Infirmary
T lx o Solo
Pamphlets, Price Lists, full particulars and advice given with pleasure on application to
A-stalian .A.gozita : gg* r~| ■
462, 474 ani> 587 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
SHI
Write ; it is no trouh J c to answer questions.
HAM
ELECTRIC BELT
c' 1 111. A., I I I . A . ,U ' KS Physician to Her Majesty
Sir WILLIAM EKROUSSON, Plusician to Her Males t v
Sir HENRY HOLLAND, Physician to Her Majesty
Sir E. H. LIKA EKING, Physician to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales
And numberless oilier Medical Men.
Personal Items.
*i Duncan Gillies was once a reporter on the
Ballarat Star,
- ■'lleniuker Heaton has started for a trip
e l l .yw>:<;on through America and Japan.
■ Between salary and allowances the position
of Governor'of N.S. W; is' worth £13,000 „
Bitchett calls Francis Adams* “ inane.”
Wait tilt Adanas begins to play his verbal vitriol
on Fitchett! ■ , •, • . •
Londpn Wobld describes Francis Adams
as “an illustrious unknown who swishes our
novelists in a veryJofty fashion.” -•-- • -
Mr. Walsh, whpse will is being fiercely
contested in Melbourne!, is described by one
witness as having been “ shrewd, business-like,
and religious.” .
Ex-Chief Secretary Gocjcbufn fis a Demo-
crat who dines qff. silver at Adelaide.Qluju. ' One
. Ins successors is an aristocrat who eats-peas
with his knife. ' ' ' ’
■ Mrs. Martin, author of that successful
Anglo-Australian novel, “ An Australian Girl,”
was formerly a clerk in the Education Depart-
ment at Adelaide. , . ;
South Australia’s five wealthiest men are
‘Sh T. Elder, Barr Smith, J. H. Angas, G. 0,
Hawker, and VV. K. Simtqs. Barr. SiqitH is a
lavish entertainer, but, if he gives. money away in
charity, it is not done publicly.
The Fitchett writes : “In the existing
mood 'of public opinion, Sir Galahad himself, if
he were a director of a company in liquidation,
would fare ill at the hands of a jury.” Who’s Sir
Galahad ? Has he had anybody ?
Sleuth and his fellow “ conspirators ” took
return tickets from Broken Hill. King Billy
said ; “ White.pfeller plurry fool—build a gaol to
put himself in.” The “conspirators” went one
better—actually paid their own fare to gaol.
October Review of Reviews makes Vic-
toria’s poetess, Jennings Carmichael, a man. Her
full name is Grace Elizabeth Jennings Carmichael.
She was formerly a nurse in Melbourne Children’s
Hospital, more lately a governess up Gippsland
way.
Lady Mabel Emily Louisa Brudenelk
Bruce appears to have married ex-bookmaker
outton-Sievier in a lit of pique. She was.on the
verge of marrying a haughty Lieutenant when he
struck for a big settlement, and she turned round
and married Sutton instead. , •
Explorer Lindsay’s reports and' journals
are to be published in a severely expurgated form,
and the interest in their perusal will be propor-
tionately decreased. There is just a chance that
Sir Thomas Elder may send out another party, for
he still retains confidence in Lindsay.
Sir James Cockle, the. pensioned Chief
Justice of Queensland, formerly a member and
treasurer of London Savage Club, resigned from
that institution when a “ wlup.round ’’-was lately"
made. The old lawyer-mathematician is"of friigal-
mmd. He now smokes'his cutty at the Savile
Club.
There are various wild rumours about as
to the terms upon which “ Charley ” Armstrong,
has withdrawn his petition for divorce against
Madame Melba, but no one who knows the
“ Kangaroo ” would suppose for a moment that he-
would make a commercial speculation of such a
thing. „ ‘ ‘
. Many good stories are told in Maoriland
of T. S. Weston, lawyer. Defending a soiled’
dove before an E..M. once, he said : “ You
know, your Worship, these ladies always, receive
gifts of money,” when he was sharply .pulled up
•with, “ You may know, sir; I have onlv been
credibly informed.”
It was not, as has been rumoured, the
Premier of Maoriland who dropped his new set of
teeth into the water over the side of a Government
steamer while on a holiday trip to the Sounds.
The victim, Mr. H. S. Fish, spent the remainder
of the trip in his bunk* and on his* return to
Wellington obtained leave of absence from his
Parliamentary duties for a few days “on urgent
private affairs.” “
From Sydney Echo : •
The writer of a recent Australian story describes her
hero as “meditating eucalyptic cloisterdom ” —which is
good.
But, then'“eucalyptic cloisterdom ” was not' in-'
vented by a novelist. It was invented by Brunton
Stephens in “ My Chinee'Cook ” ’
Those who say the bush is lonely are not very far"astray,
This eucalyptic'cloisterdorti is anything bht gay.
Mr. William Knox, secretary of- the Pro-
prietary mine and the,Mine Owners’ Association,
has the burly form, the hooked nose, the big black
moustache, and the general air of the gentleman
who cracks his whip in the centre of the ring, and
is the outward and visible authority of the circus.
And doesn t Knox crack his whip! He claims
the Earl of Ranfurly as the head of his family,
and has called his new house on the fringe of
lOorak after the family estate. He was originally
a bank clerk, then became a sharebroker, was
appointed secretary of the Proprietary mine, and
has gfown up with his place.
'.That, bitter-tongued, eccentric pessimist,
W. A. E. West-Erskine, M. A., the S.A. legisla-
tor, the news of whose deatli abroad has been,
cabled, was a dudish squatter, of the high-collar.
and mutton-chop-»hisker style of architecture.
To his personal friends he was a good-hearted
fellow, rather college-y and deucedly Conserva-
tive. He was a bachelor and woman-hater,
because —Well, no one ever suspected West-Erskine ’
of knowing how to .mash a girl; but for all that he
was a fop. Erskiue (his name was originally
West, but he changed it when a relative left him
a; fortune) was one of the first to tap Broken Hills,, '
and drew 'therefrom, when dividends flowed freely,
£(>000 a month. His recent utterances in America,
the financial state of Australia will be remem-
bered.
kir .fames Macßain, President of the Vic-
torian Council, died last Friday. He was a vera
solemn Scotch squatter, aged 64, and the most
impervious man in the matter of humour iq
all Australia. Among , other things he was a
Presbyterian lay dignitary, and a member of the
Association for the-Protection of Aborigines. In
1887, his unblemished dullness earned for him the
distortion of knighthood, and a year or two
previously his massive solemnity had gained him
the Presidency-of the Council, which office, in
default of anyone drearier than himself; he held;
to the day of his deatlf. His property mostly
goes to a nephew, and as the name of that hepfiew
is Smith Macßain, and he is studying for the Kirk,
there are sufficient guarantees that the solemnity
of the family will be duly kept up.'- But there
was a side to the nature of the Macßain of which
the ordinary public, perhaps, knew little, and what
it was is exemplified by the following anecdote.
Some years ago a* shabbily-dressed newspaper-
reporter suffering from' phthisis, professionally
attended a Presbyterian assembly meeting. His
cough attracted the attention of Mlacßain who
remarked that he ought to go to Queensland and
live awhile on the Downs. “ That’s all very well
Sir James,” replied the poor scribe, “but I can’t
get a Irving for myself and my wife on the Queens-
land Downs. Later in the day a letter from
Macßain was handed to the reporter—“ I will see
your employers and beg for a holiday for you. I
enclose cheque (j 650) and hope that bv resting
awhile in a warmer climate you will recover
strength.
Rudyard Kipling
has not only lost his
money, but his
mother -in f law lives
with him,
Sir George Grey
has written a letter
conclusively proving
that to himself, and not
to Lord Elgin as
claimed by Sir Henry
Loch, attaches the
credit of diverting to
India portion of the
China army and thereby
helping Colin Campbell
to relieve Lucknow.
A big Q.C. received
a cheque for over .£9OO
the other day for a
week's work. Half-an-
ho.ur after, his clerk ”
came snorting round to
the solicitor .with a
note; “G*hequereeeived.
I do not send receipt,
as you have omitted an.
item of £2 4s. 6d.--
Yours,” &c. Talk of
the Jews, after that /
One of the sights
of Sydney Public
Library is a very pro-
minent politician who
calls in every after-
noon, walks straight
to the place where a
particularly ind e c ent
classic is deposited high
up on an oblcure shelf,
and sits down in the
most lonesome corner
he can find to wallow.
After a few minutes
he begins to laugh,' and
then he gets excited and
starts to throw out his
legs and arms in gal-
vanic jumps. When he
has wallowed for halfi-
an-hour or so, he puts
the work back and
quits. He never looks
at any other; that
volume is the--whole
library to him. This
story is told us by a
man of cast-irdn
morality, and how he
knows,which shelf the
indecent book is on.
we pan’t imagine.
Ex-Minister Franbis Abigail, (N.S.’W;)'
who is now doing five years fo.r conspiracy, to
defraud, was finally damned by his old friend and
colleague, Parkes. All though thbmase Abigail’s'
defence was' that he was ignorant, unsuspicious,
and unacquainted with business generally, and
when his ancient ally entered the witness-box and,
s\vore that he was a man of much intelligence it
knocked the bottom out .of his defence. Abigail
never was se man of any intelligence worth men-
tioning, but if Parkes hadn’t said - he was it would
have been difficult to explain his inclusion in the
Foreign-trade Cabinet of 1887. It would have
been hard for Parkes to acknowledge that he
deliberately fixed up a Ministry of cheap medio-
crities ; anyhow, by evidence such as that quoted,
he threw his fallen friend to the wolves.
John Mackay, the present har,bour-maste r
at Brisbane (Q.) is the man who first explored
the Mackay district, and he has the empty honour
of giving his name to the sugar city. A few
years ago the first MTlwraith Cabin'et awarded
him a grant of 1000 acres as a reward for his
services, but though the grant 'Was recommended
by a parliamentary committee, the Griffith
Government, which came, into office immediately
afterwards, bounced the* old man out of, it,
Griffith stating that a harbour-master’s billet was
sufficient reward. As a further gratuity, however,
he got rid of the shipping-master (salary .£3OO a
year) and gave his work to old Mackay without
any extra pay. When MTlwraith came back to
office ho had forgotten his former protege, and the
ancient pioneer’s land-grant vanished for good.
He who trusts a corpulent politician shall be for-
gotten, arid he who puts his faith in a bony states-
man shall be taken in.
Mud Carnival.
The Melbourne Cup has, for many years past,
been under the ghastly patronage of the Devil,
The sun was wont to issue an invitation to the
fleshly scene, and smile cordially upon the hollow
vanities of Flemington. Admitting the Low
Church doctrine that the Cup is sin, there was no
denying that it usually carried a thin veneer of
rapture, and was, in its own evil way, a gorgeous
success. The balmy breeze, whispered praises to
the glory of many milliners, and every young
woman in a new suit felt that it was good to be
there. Nature—which is seldom favourable to
parsons, somehow—did her level best to tempt
visitors to roll up again next time, and have
another “go” of gilded iniquity, a fresh dose of
false enjoyment, and a further plunge into the
good old “ vortex of dissipation.” Different
horses finished first past the post on these occa-
sions, and were hailed as heroes by the thoughtless
multitude, but, as a matter of fact, the Cup was
persistently .sneaked by the same animal. Nicko-
demus, an aged black horse, with a flattering tale
and very warm quarters, used to pull off the
event in a canter. This fiery beast always pitch-
forked himself into the handicap and ran for the
bookmakers.
* « *
All was mire and misery at this year’s Cup.
Twenty thousand women went down to the Car-
nival and groaned, whilst forty thousand men did
worse than that. We are a man ourself and speak
from experience.
THE DEPRESSION THE MOTHER OF INVENTION.
LAWYER (to vag.): “(What’s your business?”
VAG. “I’m the drunk’s friend, I knock about the streets of nights, and
when I sees a gent drunk I hawks him home.”
' In the old, allpririgtimes, one viewed the arrival
6f the giddy throng with a fair amount of satis-
faction. The sight of sassiety people spreading
themselves around in their best clothes, although
Hot exactly elevating, tends to soothe. Loafing
under an azure sky to stare at the advancing
squadrons of ladies who look nice (or think they do)
used to be a very good way of putting in the first
half-hour. Real happiness is contagious, and at
noon oh a fine Cup Day we could make certain of
catching whiffs of contentment from women whose
parasols/alone had secured them against any fear
of failure. !) There were parasols on view this year
—damp, dejected things that tried to keep
feathers from going out of curl and failed
miserably. It was raining when the trains “dis-
charged their living freights,” and the mud-
stained buggies and drags gave up their wished-
they-were-dead ’uns in the carriage paddock;
raining when luncheon time came ; raining when
the races were run ; raining ever and always to'the
bitter end. We can feel umbrella-water trickling
down our backs as we think about it. “Let us
have a lively Gup sketch,” was the instruction
given to the writer, and the individual in question
ought to be personally forwarded to the Bulletin
by post. We soon become a lively sketch.
* # *
This year’s Cup crowd was divided into two
great parties—the people determined to keep as
dry as possible, and the people anxious to get no
wetter than they could help. The former (mostly
females) filled every inch of space in seats and gang-
ways under cover of the Grand and Maribyrnong
Stands, and were so jammed together that their
identities seemed to be merged into masses. The
latter represented a moving panorama of umbrellas
and a monotonous array of tucked-up trousers.
Here and there, of course, a notable facfb could ba
detected, even in the Stand. Early in the day wa
saw Max O’Rell, in the corridor at the back, lean
ing over the partition to speak to a lady who had
found rest. Perhaps it was Madame Blouet, and
very likely her husband was saying, “ Quel
misere!” or something like that. As an intelligent
Frenchman, he couldn’t be expected to say much
else. The inevitable “ Teddy ” Lonnen, with fair
Alice Lethbridge in the vicinity, were also appar-
ent about this time. Other members of the same
company made themselves more conspicuous
throughout the show. Spiteful matrons
and rigidly proper spinsters said that the
Gaiety girls “carried on” a good deal in
spite of the weather —but these reflections
were unjust. The untrammelled darlings merely
played at pretending’ to enjoy themselves, and
they gave a thoroughly realistic performance
on the whole. Addie Conyers loomed large, and
Alice Leamar was decidedly busy in white shoes.
Many ladies had white shoes at the outset, and
got them duty by degrees, but there were others,
like Mrs. Rupert Clarke and her friend, Miss
Ohirnside, who came prepared for the worst, and
were subsequently not out of place in the “Bird-
cage.” At these, with “nothing to spoil,” the
rest of the sex began to glare angrily after a while.
They had taken a mean advantage of the rain, in
a sense, and the women robed in unavailing
splendour felt cross about it.
« • «
The vice-regal persons were driven down the
course amidst the falling dew, attended by
dripping Mounted Rifles and soaked orderlies.
The band, on the cold, dank grass, struck up
“God Save the Queen,” and tried to wake up
loyalty, yet without disguising the fact that the
elements had trickled into the National Anthem
and caused the wind instruments to splutter.
There was more than the ordinary lack of
impressiveness about the arrival of “the
party.” Lady Hopetoun is a feeble suc-
cessor to dear Lady Loch in the “ bless you,
my people ” line 'of business, and Lady Jersey
doesn’t get herself up to paralyse them. Jersey’s
hat, which couldn’t have been quite new when his
grandfather bequeathed it to him, looked none
the better for exposure to the drizzle, whilst the
braw Kintore had caught cold in his off eye.
Lady Hilda Brodrick, in vivid green and pink,
gave a streak of holiday appearance to the proces-
sion, and maintained an air of festivity even after
they had crossed the lawn and sought shelter in
the long private box, but the vice-regal show was
but a poor reminder of other days. We have seen,
ah ! we have seen as many as six Governors and
nearly as many wives assembled in that box at
one time. The various suites used to be mostly
left outside to shift for themselves, and altogether
it was a noble sight. On this occasion there was
plenty of room to spare for the low-spirited masher
captains and things in attendance. At the tail-
end of the box the Earl of Northesk popped up
once again but what a falling off was there 1
formerly, when Northesk was Lord Rosehill"
or some name like that, he would grin by the hour
together, but since he came into his coronet the
noble earl has turned ruminative, and all the sun-
shine has gone out of his large front teeth. These
great people seldom left their seats except for
refreshment. There was no promenading on the
Lawn, no ascension to the top of the Stand, as on
Herby Day, no anything for them except rain, and
chicken and champagne in a private room at the
back. Mutual sorrow seemed to draw them
closer together, however. We observed Lord
Hopetoun sitting on a stool beside his countess,
who looked down upon His Excellency in a
decidedly approving manner,
* # #
The social portion of the carnival being hope-
lessly gone bung we turned our thoughts to the
horses and began to look anxiously for men who
knew something. Duncan Gillies met our eye,
but he didn t seem like one who had a moral cer-
tainty up his sleeve. We set him down as an
extinct volcano wrestling with another umbrella,
and passed on. Other celebrated statesmen may
have been knocking around, but you couldn’t see
them for umbrellas. As public circumstances they
went for nothing on a day like this. They were
simply so many “brollies” moving about in the
humid atmosphere. By three o’clock, when Meg
had won the Kensington Stakes, the betting pad-
dock was fast being converted into soup. The
falling off in the crush of punters from the winning-
post to the scratehing-board, at the conclusion of
each race, was now very obvious. In Bravo’s
year one couldn t make the journey in less than
ten minutes; this year it was possible to slosh
over the thirty or forty yards with comparative
ease. Bookmakers were glad to accommodate
their customers, and even said “Thank you ” for
half-a-sovereign, in some cases,
* * #
Descending the awkward slope in front of the
Members Stand you had to be careful how you
sloshed. Well-appointed gentlemen fell into the
soup freely, and several lovely light overcoats
bore evidence of their owners’ sudden attachment
to the soil. A wild shriek from the Hill pro-
claimed that something had happened about this
time. Looking upward, we saw that six maidens,
having attempted to walk gingerly down a steep
place, were descending unexpectedly, after the
manner of little boys coming down the bannisters.
The rails at the bottom of the Hill arrested the
flight of these foolish virgins, and they picked
themselves before the awful disclosures had
gone too far. They must have been very muddy
somewhere, but their skirts fell back into position
and shrouded the matter in mystery. Neverthe-
less, we felt for those girls. On the terrace a
more serious accident occurred to a fashionable
costumiere, who missed her footing on one of the
slimy garden-seats, and struck the asphalte
heavily.
* * *
The fixing-up of the Cup horses for the coming
struggle was full of gloomy significance. The hoofs
of noble animals were being doctored with nails or
light plates, and trainers, assisting at these solemn
rites, shook their heads misgivingly. The air was
heavy with the sighs of owners who considered


No other medicine is so reliable as Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, for the cure of coughs, colds,
and all derangements of the respiratory organs.
It relieves the asthmatic and consumptive, even
in advanced stages of disease.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards ad., p. 2\.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and Kin
streets. He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitious
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address-Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sydney Arcade, George and
King streets.*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Latest novelties and styles for Lathes’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £* 3s. Bkaham and Much,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 king-street.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Bucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
bv its use Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Svdnev and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Bucalypte Honey or Ercalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Bucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. SW'’ For external use try Colbmakb and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Ootamundra, N.S. W
Gala, c/o 11. Alexander, (17 Oxford-strret,
Sydney. Dec. Handicap, Roseliill, Dee. 3rd.
10,000 at 5 each. Send at once.
Drink only Wolfe’s Soft as love,
and cooling as his fan.
A Rockhampton man, who lately gave a
lecture on Tennyson, began by calling the dead
poet “ Arthur.” His next will be on “ Dicky ”
Burns.
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
At the opening of a large N.Q. warehouse,
thus the local secretary of everything: “ The
enterprise of Messrs. So-and-so cannot be too
highly commended in building such splendid ware-
houses. I have no hesitation in saying that they
possess the most complete, if not the only,
hydraulic lift in N.Q. which is worked by water.”
(Applause.)
If you are suffering with languor, debility,
pimples, boils, catarrh, chronic sores, scrofula, or
any disease arising from impure blood, take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla—the safest and most economical of
all blood-purifiers,
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Golem an e and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
We are a happy family because father smokes
GNUN Darlings.
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Kigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-/
plied to suit the various/
strata. - WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
df
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, Ac.
23 21 < lart‘iiec*slret'l,
SYDNEY.
that “ anything might win in such going. Thre
horses were specially noticeable for their sturdy
hind-quarters —Malvolio, Honda and Glenloth
but nobody perceived the finger of fate pointing
to the two latter rank outsiders. Walter Hicken-
botham, now looking after Titan in a stall hard
by, had tipped Glenloth for the Caulfield Cup, and
Walter is a good critic of other people’s stock.
But the Melbourne Cup, in his opinion, was a
one-horse race for Malvolio. Indeed, last year’s
winner looked as though he only wanted a fair
course and good luek to make him win the race by
six lengths. Most of the others were insignificant,
or common-seeming animals compared with Mal-
volio, G’Naroo, Camoola, The Admiral and Paris,
yet the Hebrews chuckled at the downpour, and
renewed their offeas to back the fee-ild.
» * *
Presently we were under an umbrella on the
margin of the Terrace, waiting to see the finish
for the Cup. The horses were at the post, and
the rain poured as it htyln’t poured till now.
Away up on the Hill there must have been fewer
people than usual, but in the great forest of black
mushrooms no break could be seen. The un-
covered stand below had seemingly been roofed in
with umbrellas, and looking across towards the
Flat one saw nothing but a leaden sky lowering
on more ginghams. The Grand Stand was redo-
lent of steaming clothes and muggy (appropriate
name) humanity, and men who had been strangely
attentive to their wives all day for fear of getting
wet, were glad to come forth into the storm and
swear at large. The start was delayed for fifteen
minutes, during which time the Lawn, the pride
of Byron Moore, became a deserted duck-pond,
and the last hopeof a fair-run race was washed away.
We sank into our sodden boots and moralised
on the ghastly absurdity of the situation.
Was this the Cup-day of which several graphic
descriptions had been set up in type beforehand
Was it for such a melancholy tune that a myriad
of otherwise thrifty matrons had compelled their
conjugal victims to pay the piper ? And the men,
the deluded punters who had backed favourites
“straight out,” or in “doubles,” who had worried
their poor brains to find out what ought to happen
—was it on this spludge through the slush that
they had staked a month’s wages? The “ clever ”
trainers, the patient schemers, who had waited
twelve months for this glorious opportunity, and
neglected a dozen chances of “making a bit ” in
the meantime—what did their artfulness look like
now? As foolish as Noah’s unbelieving friends
when the Deluge came?
• * *
At last, George Watson told his mob of
drenched mannikins to go, and in ten seconds
the same number of horses had the struggle for
.£lO,OOO to themselves. The remaining five-and-
twenty might as well have laid them down in the
dampness and gone to sleep, inasmuch as the
first lot of mud-scatterers were the only ones that
ever got a look at the promised “ land.” As they
all trampled through the morass in front of the
Grand Stand the supporters of the favourite
guessed that he was a goner anyway, and guessed
right for once. Malvolio had given the leaders
thirty yards’ start, and was seemingly making
arrangements to gallop wide on the outside,
another thirty yards further than the horses that
hung close to the rails. A little while and Port-
sea tumbled down, to the great relief of tipAera
who had sworn by him and were able to bemoan
the accident which alone prevented their prophecy
from coming off.
» * *
The rain, trickling down one’s field-glasses, made
it difficult to understand what was occurring
until a horse wallowed home in the muck all by
himself, and then a long broken sob of human
despair .proclaimed that Glenloth had come to
pass. Number 13, followed by 3!l and 25 were
hoisted on the board amidst a burst of sullen
silence, but anon a faint disturbance in tire dis-
tance, near the Stewards Stand, denoted that a
faithful band of storm-beaten Hebrews were
giving tongue to their bliss. The time-honoured
public demonstration in favour of the winner was
omitted. The vast multitude saw themselves all
at once in their plain, unvarnished wretchedness
and became very tired.
» * *
The first paroxysm of grief was slowly subsiding
when we met a friend who professed to be looking
for his wife. He wanted information concerning
her whereabouts, so together we trudged off to see
whether the missing lady was concealed in a beer-
bottle, and might be poured out to us by mistake
at sixpence a glass. Colonial lager beer is, m the
ordinary way, sixpence a bottle, but the V.K.G.
caterer dispenses it like physic in nobbler-glasses,
at a “ tanner ” a sip. Nine nobblers to the bottle
—sixpence for the beer and four shillings for the
man who sells it. After swallowing our lotion at
half a gulp we asked the barman to mention the
name of the benefactor who Had provided this
nourishment, that we might pray for him when
we went to bed. The barman said Skinner,
and without doubting his word we retired. It was
raining as before, but we waded into the
Birdcage and came across the victorious Gleu-
loth. The horse, considerably distressed, was
being rubbed down by an odd-looking little Irish-
man and a couple of unkempt boys, all of whom
seemed proud of their occupation and quite pie-
pared to keep on rubbing till the Crack of Doom.
There was only a small audience at this interest-
ing performance. The difference between the
rubbing down of a successful outsider and a
“popular fancy” was brought under our notice
with painful clearness. We admired Glenloth in
a feeble manner, but wouldn’t have minded much
if they rubbed him the wrong way. In point of
fact, we rather wished that all the horses, espe-
cially Glenloth, were dead and buried beside our-
self in a lonely grave.
* * *
We left the Birdcage, musing on the whips and
scorns of fortune, and walked back ankle-deep m
dirt towards the gales of egress from the Carnival.
Most people were going the same sad way.
There was no music to persuade us that we
were happy, and the very last pretence of
festivity had dropped out of the show. Even
the push for the homeward train was but a ghost
of its old self. Fourteen people wedged them-
selves wearily into our particular coinpartmenc
and remained pensive all the way to Spencer-st.
terminus. One man certainly broke the monotony
of the journey, but he didn’t break it much. This
solitary exception said “ Blimy ! ” and fell back
into his train of thought. Back in the streets of
Melbourne we were glad to notice a casual merry-
maker enjoying a seasonable joke. He had tucked
His trousers up to his knees, and his muddy legs
were telling the true tale of the Cup as he walked
along.
POLITICAL POINTS
Contrast Broken Hill and Broken Davies 1
The Tory lordling governors system will
be knocked on the head by Gladstone.
Dr. Ren wick, N.S. W. Commissioner at
Obion go Exhibition, lias cabled for a little trifle of
,£lO,OOO to go on with.
It is stated that Chief Justice Lilley (Q.)
has been offered the editorship of the Worker,
provided that he drops his title.
Parkes was too knowing to accept the
Gimlet Society’s invitation to introduce a Vice-
Suppression Bill into N.S.W. Assembly.
We hear startling accounts about the
finances of Victorian shire councils, where the
newly-appointed State auditors have just plunged
in.
B. R. Wise’s exposition of the enormous
severity with which strike-offences are punished
in N.S.W. as compared with England, points a
moral.
Premier Dibbs “ is not prepared to say ”
whether his Government, if it found Kanakas
entering N.S. Wales freely, would bring in a Bill
to exclude them.
Colonial Secretary Tozer has moved for
the Queensland Parliament to approve of the
construction of eleven named lines of railway
under the Land-grab Act.
There is a distinct
movement visible among
Sydney foreign-traders—
amongst the lando-shod-
docracy —in favour of a
N.S.W. Coalition Go-
vernment, and the
compact will probably
be concluded during the
next recess, if some
sudden development does
not “spring the trap”
beforehand. The foreign-
traders making the over-
ture are willing to let
the See tariff alone, more
especially as it is not a
Protectionist tariff in any
true sense ; they are even
willing to do more than
this willing to drop
“Freetrade” activity
and coalesce against what
they regard as the
‘ • common enemy ” —the
Labour-members. When
this Coalition is consum-
mated, the N. S. W.
Assembly will hold only
two parties Conserva-
tives and Democrats, the
latter in a bad minority.
Then will be the time
of unblushing and
flourishing swindles and
the indirect political re-
ward to all hangers-on.
Such is the tribulation
through which the State
must pass before the
advent of straight-out
democratic government
emancipation. At pre-
sent, Dibbs is stiffly deaf
to definite proposals, but
he has left “ the gate
ajar ” all right.
A leading member of
the staff of each of the
Adelaide dailies was
made a J.P. by the
Holder Ministry just ere
the crisis, but even that
did not save them. The
president of the Trades
and Labour Council was
decorated at the same
time.
Ou Wednesday, Oct. 26 (a private mem-
bers’ day), in S A. Assembly, 70 speeches were
delivered by 30 members on 55 different subjects
during a nine-and a-half hours sitting.
Of the new S.A. Government the only
member witli a safe seat is Attorney-General
Homburg. Treasurer Rounsevell and vvorks-
Minister Grayson are almost certain to be de-
feated.
The other day the Emperor of Germany
drank from Luther’s cup at Wittenberg, and,
“with great solemnity, expressed a hope ttiat
Germany would always adhere to the Protestant
religion.” Presently we’ll have him drafting a
proclamation to that effect.
It will deeply interest The Bulletin to
notice the way in which certain individual
members vote on the provision in the JN.b.vy.
postal bill to stop the registration and transmis-
sion and delivery of letters connected with
lotteries and racing-sweeps,
Castine, M.P. (S.A.), because there was a
majority favouring a Government site for a Trades
Hall, stonewalled until 8.45 Thursday morning.
Castine represents the farmers, and supports a
butter-bonus and the stock-tax, but opposes the
Trades Hall site because it is “class legislation .
Henry Matthews, Q.C., the British ex-
Home Secretary, went to S.A. Assembly last
week, sent his card to the Speaker, “Mr. Henry
Matthews, 6 Carlton Gardens,” stayed an hour,
and loft without the members having the least
idea of his presence. They were busy quarrelling
all the time.
Evidently a new political industry. A
N.S.\V. Dairy Company advertises that “the
genial Mr. Thomas Houghton, M.P., has given us
an order for the supply of our pure milk, rich
cream and sweet butter ; ” and a patent-medicine
man publishes a sciatica-cure testimonial from the
O’Sullivan, M.P. !
Graham Berry is now in his seventh
Ministry, and has spent nine years altogether on
the Treasury Benches. Duncan Gillies, who has
a'so been in seven Ministries, beats him for time,
though, having been thirteen years in office. Ihe
late J. M. Grant, another member of seven
Victorian Cabinets, was twelve years in office.
The lost Victorian Parliamentary mace is
now at a bagnio in Lonsdale-street, Melbourne.
A detective found out where it was, and intended
to go for it; but he was ordered to let it stay.
Whether it is restored will depend on how a
certain financial trouble finishes, for a big political
potentate and three perfect ladies were in the
picnic.
We note with regret that Premier Dibbs is
going to read The Bulletin on Sunday. In reply
to a question by Rae, M.L.A., he stated that he
hadn’t overhauled this paper lately, but that he
would go through it on the Day of Rest, and see
if it was necessary to do anything to it. Ison,
The Bulletin was never meant for Sunday
reading.
Jenkin Coles, Speaker of S.A. Assembly,
aspires to be Agent-General for S.A., and it is
already eut-and-drifed that lie is to succeed Bray,
who wants to return. The idea then is to make
Playfor-d Speaker, and Kingston then drops into
the Premiership. The Downer Ministry merely
provides the interval between collapse and
coalition.
The capitalistic papers accidentally drop
into truth sometimes. Here is what somebody in
HE COMET RATHER STRONG.
ENGLISH SWELL (on tour): “Haw! Give me a glass of three-star
brandy.”
COUNTRY PUBLICAN: “Drink this, old man, and you’ll see sixty
blauky stars.”
Sydney D.T. writes of that paper in the latest
number of the Review of Reviews
The paper can scarcely be sa'.d to represent an idea,
a policy, or a “ s ihool; " it is a splendid busmessan whine
run for business ends.
In a word, it is the penny shopkeeper’s organ.
A firm in which several Adelaide politi-
cians, including Ministers and ex-Ministers, are
alleged to be? financially interested, recently re-
ceived a big concession on one of their contracts ;
and it is now inquisitively asked whether the
whole of the circumstances have been made public.
Rumours are being circulated about Adelaide
which ought to be contradicted.
A prominent question tit S. A. elections
next year will be that of Bible-reading in State
schools. Some of the churches, usually at war
amongst themselves, are uniting in support of the
movement. The abolition of religious education
in schools was designed to kill Papistry, it
didn’t but it is cutting the throats of the other
sects, who now unavailingly seek to retrace their
steps.
Strange that in the same issue of the Mel-
bourne papers, wherein the lordly proprietors
advertise their thinly-disguised exultation over
the sentences passed upon the Broken Hill con-
spirators,” we read gushing little paragraphs
approving of the erection at Ballarat of a statue m
its main street to the honour and glory of that
arch-conspirator, Peter Lalor. The _ wealthiest
newspaper-boss can afford to patronise a dead
democrat.
The S. A. Premier expects the present
financial year to show .£2,676,650 revenue and
.£2,630,225 expenditure. From 50 per cent,
increase in the income tax he expects £23,000. if
the wealthy didn’t evade its payment, he would
receive double that sum, but, as usual, the
amount comes from persons with from £2OO to
£5OO a year. The rich are allowed to deduct their
“losses ” from their income-statement.
Sydney Daily Telegraph pretends to
favour payment of members, and has written
leaders in favour thereof, yet it prints a letter
from its Maoriland correspondent, stating that
the M.L. Council, in passing the Payment of
Members Bill, disgraced itself in public opinion 5
that it had failed to do its duty and protect the
public against the shameless seizure of £lO,OOO a
year ; that its failure “encourages the feeling that
the Council is useless.”
The British Australasian (London) re-
marks that, for the very first time in two years, a
steamer has left Australia for England without a
big consignment of gold or bullion on board.
N. S. Wales alone, in the year 1891, sent out
£2,300,000 in gold and silver more than she
received. This is rough on the Foreign-trade
theory that no money goes out of the country in
payment for imports, but that they are paid for
in kind, in consequence of which the inrush of
cheap labour goods only stimulates production and
makes the desert blossom as the rose.
Professor Tucker (Melb.) has given public
utterance to the results of his recent personal in-
vestigation into the working of Continental and
British Universities. The results are meagre-
mere, pitiful suggestions for slight administrative
changes. By some excesspif Conservative folly he
carefully avoided inspecting such noble institu-
tions as the Paris University where so many
students are yearly educated without payment of
fees. High fees and an inflexible, hidebound
entry-standard keep many an Australian youth of
parts from positions usually filled by monied
mediocrity.
Brisbane Worker analyses Queensland’s
Assembly ;
Since the collapse of the land-boom and the decline in
Mount Morgan scrip, parliamentjhas become a huge finan-
cial morgue. There are 62 tombstones, covering as many
financial corpses, sitting on its benches, andlO Ihingmen,
financially free. A.l the rest are “ bung," “ bust,
"crook,” or “stiff.” When one speaks of the hon. the
member for , the language is purely figurative. What
one really means is the hon. the stiff ’un representing a
particular overdraft in the bank tf — —. They are simply
financial mummies dancing as the wires are pulled in the
associated banks’ parlour.
Men of Queensland, this is as true as that you all
must die.
Sir George Grey considers that the Maori-
land Ministry committed a constitutional blunder
in referring the recent Council-nomination dis-
pute to the Imperial authorities. Had a Tory
Government been in power at Dawning street,
Earl Glasgow would have been upheld in his high-
handed refusal to endorse the Premier’s nomina-
tions. In a similar difficulty the Canadians
would not have troubled Downing-street. When
Lord Elgin was Governor-General of Canada, and
refused to be guided by bis Ministry, the people
of Montreal assembled at Government House and
proceeded to pull it to pieces and cart away the
wreck for firewood. Lord Elgin tied to Quebec,
and was glad to cave in to save another Govern-
ment House from being pulled down about his
ears.
Melbourne Leader uses language about
Sir. G. Republican Dibbs
Sir George Dihhs has been snubbing a deputation
which waited on him from the Woman’s Suffrage League.
Sir George is so far in the confidence of the Creator ns to
know that He never intended women to vote at parlia-
ment arv elections. So Sir George advised them to stop
at home, nurse the babies and be happy, while he and
other grandly-constructed creatures like him would
devote themselves to the public interest and govern the
country. It is strange that the errant Premier did not
bethink him of these homilies at the moment when-
according to his own account he was persuaded by a
woman who happens to rule the British Empire to dp
violence to his Republican feelings and become a "Sir.”
That’s Just the point. Why didu 6 Dibbs tell
that woman that he was shocked to find her
interfering in politics, which were altogether opt
of her line, and refuse to recognise her except in
her private capacity ? The man who only recog-
nises the political female when he can get some-
thing opt of her is a poor thing anyhow.


d
A A 3L£
nfloor Jj/f/e dog r/as oyce Ir/ed
- 0/7 a cAiiye Y /rrrjutar-
/ t/es resyee7if?s a cer/ay faf ofl
yudoy. Ir/foyo/- Sard
s' l/j la/;ar you feap fro/? fired a?d/a yr?d
(furfijr. fi // tye drrly Y *
'courl fioflroyauyee Spyfiyce&liy
/ you, M/f/cfl oul oflfays/drrafife/or flour
yyw/jf #yd ryp/flarfiyce /dr// yafeas l/yfl/
'ti-SMSf/l/p feu Ore /feprffere Jpyfiycec/ /S
dp eo/py Jy fl/fle Inoj - dopes, fedp ay dfir/
arrd way/fp lord few yercyoyyour sau/ /
/llffi fej feyor Soiled Coydu/sde/y ayd
/fare eSao yo/a dry eye y Afe Chad' roey.
Evftry mai) Ijasbefij
jnijocejl' oT Jonje periyd
of l/is life
Chat's So 1 . Ue biers all
ujijoceyf Ojce .
\v we ,5009 oi'oi) oat'' of
IqbacHotnj
fade m l 5
I I f|acl
'fUy M
Z 1
rMES QIKINO a CIMr/ICTTR
do ojA/t Jury ije h’us af
% e 4 MEW OF MY MINISTRy!!”
defence l?ere btol\e dowy.
SljCvj oul' k&clf So-yd. 0.11, (X
bfix.e- filter. CLtjd as S&fjdaH
V fjadto lose tyapty "
E iSideyc?
MORAL: '“LET THE COBBLER STICK TO HIS LAST.”


i©ns n 5 © ■ lng I © w
/ .. X av %
!(IM ,s s Giddi b°y J .
>WKo+o C< y
I do <3 rv 1O y cl
S <•««
I K a v-g c< 'll/
ck c d-e s^lA
ncls
His rain upo n
He Jij 5T cihd the
Unj u s \
‘Eih.mf w
Q/ 7 [I /o -fh/nK of S/o^e.
poor <s rr/n g c> -9 e S Ct/~
7/ <b rr> / /•? ® for>^
r> ue
A ~2z> '*} , " _ war
> ?-&**//cr.rt'i'enro t*y /r>s*)
s Ve®/s/<>/o r ) fl //'Vonr~
*CCS//-Aere evov/4 >
«3 V'&foos, />/?-> er?Y~ (*or sy/
/ AS <7/?// ooe/'
6ecn gof <//- Sefonjs^
THINGS IN MELBOURNE.


WEST AUSTRALIA
TS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note —These allotments are in selected positions
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
309 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
\V. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office :
ST. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
SCIENTIFIC CORRECTION OE DEFECTIVE SIGHT.
3*r. <Ss 00.,
[N. LAZARUS. N. DAVIDSON.]
(By Special Appointment to His Excellency the Marquis of Dufferin, ex-Viceroy and Governor-General of India,)
LONDON, CALCUTTA, 330 COLLINS STREET (MELBOURNE), WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
Have*.OPENED AN ESTABLISHMENT at
180 .IP I T T S T E E E T, SYDNEY.
fRADE MARK
REGISTERED
mHE system of Sight-testing employed is our own
JL invention, Patent No. 4354, and has been uni-
versally admitted, both by Press and Public, to be
absolutely the simplest and most perfect yet dis-
covered for determining all errors of refraction. I* lo
personal experience and practical knowledge has been
gained by many years of study and diligent research.
We remind the public that we are OCLTLIb
OPTICIANS ONLY, auci always especially desire to see all those who have hitherto found it impossible to obtain suitable Spectacles; We invi e
parents to bring their children and have their sight tested. Consultation and advice FREE.
N.B.~ This is our ONLY ADDRESS in Sydney, and all New South Wales and Queensland Agents can be supplied from here..
Wo Append a few Australian Press Notices :
From Age, Melbourne Exhibition Report of Sept. 4, 1888 —“ There is a most interesting exhibit by Messrs. N. Lazarus <fc Co., of Calcutta, the well-known Indian and
London opticians. Messrs. Lazarus-&. Co. conduct.a very, extensive-business in. Calcutta, as well as in England, and their experience as experts in their own particular lineju Jr
equals, if it does not surpass,Abe most eminent ophthalmic surgeons.. Some of trie leading surgeons of London and India have borne testimony to the accuracy of the mode
diagnosing' cases of the nature referred to, and during the short time they have been in Melbourne in connection with (lie Exhibition they have been interviewed by hundreds
persons who, perhaps, would never dream of consulting a surgeon.” . ,
From the Daily Telegraph, Sydney, August 20, 1890. —“ A valuable addition to the ophthalmic science has recently been introduced by Messrs. N. Lazarus & Co. •
improved method of sight-testing, and ii is believed will prove of much benefit to the large number of people having defective sight. Messrs. N. Lazarus & Cb.’sdevice
exhibited at the Melbourne Centennial Exhibition, is a simple and perfect mode of discovering the slightest defect or difference in perception between the two eyes.” s
From the Australian Star, Sydney, August 22, 1890. —“Improved Method of Sight-testing.—Wc have had an opportunity of visiting the rooms of Messrs. N. Laz»
and Co., Oculist-opticians, and seeing a practical experiment of their patent refraction test and system of sight-testing. Certainly nothing simpler or more complete than
system of Messrs. N. Lazarus & Co. could be devised. The test will show at once the nature and extent of even the slightest optical peculiarity, and the system of interonanif
able lenses and frames enables them to suit almost any case.”
Society
A few items from the women’s work
exhibit which N.S. Wales is sending to Chicago
Exhibition • “Knitted counterpane,” “open-work
silk stockings and socks,” “knitted shawl,”
■“gentleman’s socks,” “infant’s robe,” “dressed
doll,” “child’s chemise.” What an exhibit! And
just think of the diseased vanity of the woman
who picks her husband’s common, every-day socks
off the line in the back-yard, and sends them off
to the biggest exhibition the world has ever seen,
for all the nations of the earth to stare at.
# * *
An old-time N.S.W. printer relates that
when that great democrat Parkes imported to
Sydney a lot of butter-coloured trash from India
to take the place of his rebellions white comps.,
the latter, while finishing-up their last day’s work
at the Empire office, blackened their faces as a
welcome to the new staff. Parkes happened to
put his face into the composing-room and sustained
a severe shock from the spectacle. The Eurasians,
by the way, were not an economical success.
They had to be paid T 4 a week, and couldn’t earn
anything like their money, but they sailed round
with diamond rings, and so on, and afforded a
much more imposing spectacle than the whites
whom they had supplanted.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, —The “ confidence trick ”
is worked in many interesting ways. For in-
stance, wealthy newspaper proprietors and firms
find it a cheap and effective means of advertising
to offer premiums for competitive stories, pictures,
designs for almanacs, &c., and at the same time
secure valuable matter at little or no cost.
Recently a big Southern firm offered premiums
for designs. The result was a great success from
an advertising point of view. Designs rolled in,
and numerous paragraphs appeared in the press
announcing the fact. After several weeks’ delay,
competitors were informed, per a two-line par. in
the morning papers, that Mr. Blank had been
awarded first premium and Mr. Swank second.
On enquiry at the office, they were informed that
no exhibition of the designs would be made, and
that they wou'd not be allowed to ?"c the successful
design ! —A ktist. Mel bourne.
# # #
Leprosy has now fairly settled down to
stay in Australia. What a windfall it will be to
the story-writers and dramatists as a means of
breaking up happy homes and working off the
villains! And now Jim’s tale will be made 100
per cent, more mournful by the bush poets.
* # . *
A big stir has been made at N.S.W.
Health Office since the appearance of The
Bulletin’s first article on the Little Bay leper-
station. Premier Dibbs, in answer to a question
in Parliament last week, informed the House that
the last lepers removed to the lazaret had been
afflicted with the disease for three years. As
some medico or other, no doubt, attended the
patient, the question arises whether he is legally
responsible for having so long failed to report the
case? On the other hand, if the diagnostic sense
of this certificated practitioner is so poor that
after attending a leprous patient for, say,
a year, he does not recognise the nature of the
malady—the sooner he is dealt with by the
proper authorities the better it will be for
the health of the community. The contagious-
ness of leprosy being a moot point, stringent
regulations should guard the visits to the laza-
ret of medical men engaged in general practice.
A doctor who lately visited the lazaret appears to
be strongly of opinion that one woman confined
there as a leper is not a leper at all. Supposing
that the case in question is really an uncertain
one, should it be compelled to mix with the
undoubted lepers'! We do not credit the allegation
that a woman in an advanced state of disease uses
the same bath as the patient in question.
* * *
The secret of the extravagant praise
lavished on each “ great” Australasian daily in a
certain publication is that each journal supplies
its own description which is not paid for. The
magazine man ought to go a step further and
charge for inserting the articles.
# « *
In the S A. Militia there was an officer
and a gentleman who was also a money-lender.
He used to advance coin to the members of his
company and deduct the amount with big interest
from the pay which it was his duty to distribute.
He was politely asked to go on to the reserve-list
when his acuteness became known.
• # #
Melbourne Advt. ; “ Christian ladies will-
ing to employ girls with infants, at low wages.
Apply Secretary, Victorian Vigilance Associa-
tion.” The wages of Sin are—reduced.
* * *
A certain Australasian Judge, sincedeceased,
had, on occasion, a preference for being driven by
cabmen who didn’t know him. Once, outside the
Supreme Court, he hailed a cab. “Do you know
me?” he asked the driver. “Yes ! Sir Blank,” was
the reply. Then, instead of getting in, the Judge
simply cleared his throat twice, scowled at the
Jehu, and trotted away up the street. The cabby
promptly hailed a friend in the same profession
who chanced to come along just then. “ Jack,
that old (adjective) Judge wouldn’t take my cab
because I said I knew him. Cut after him and
tell him you don’t know him from a blessed crow
and you’ll get the job.” The other cabman
galloped along and obtruded himself upon
the majesty of the law, and, being asked the
same question, replied that he didn’t remember
ever having seen his customer before, whereupon
the Bench tottered right in. Opposite a certain
house in a remote suburb the Bench got out again
and proceeded to feel in all his pockets for the
fare. “Have you got change?” he demanded.
“No, sir,” said the cabman, with a sudden
hope of getting the whole sovereign. “ H’m,
I’ve only a sovereign about me,” began the Bench,
feeling in his clothes again, “and ” “Oh,
it’s all right, Sir Blank,” said the cabby cheer-
fully, “ I’ll call round and get it from Lady Blank
in the morning.” Then the cab and the Bench
glared at each other for a moment. “ Here,” said
' pkogeaf">
tk«f , s©ur>eTs 5 ©ur>eTs fo«ke Tail
the latter at last with a wrathful grin, “you’d
better take the sovereign.”
» # *
r Rev. Alex. Marshall, of Melbourne, having
been caught attending a stage-play, feels called
upon to extend his patronage to the racecourse.
He supports the amusement, but hates the betting.
The pulpit may thunder. The wager is the alcohol
in the Cup, and when the Church has persuaded
humanity to be content with temperance drinks,
it may convert the man at the races from his evil
desire to chance a bit on a “ moral.”
# * *
In its now celebrated article defending the
sporting Governors from the censure of the Con-
gregational Union, the Sydney Morning Herald
points out that everything depends on the way
you regard a question, and that if you con-
scientiously believe in polygamy, there is no harm
in havinEr a morganatic wife or two. Are yon
there, Mister James? General Booth recently
expressed a similar opinion, with the proviso that
you must feed the surplus wives well and not beat
them.
* * *
To become a bankrupt : Put your cash in
the bank. Three cheers for the old stocking !
The “ Victorian Girl ” who writes Samoan
news in the Argus should get a male friend to edit
her screed or refrain from using blushful mariners’
terms of the derivation of which she is obviously
ignorant. One of her latest bulls recalls the
famous paragraph contributed by a Sydney daily’s
lady-writer on the departure of Admiral Tryon
from the station.
# # *
In a thinly-peopled district away back in
Western N.S.W. there is a man with 16 grown-up
sons. Therefore the family represents 17 sure
votes, together with, perhaps, a dozen more which
may be raked in by their influence, and the local
member has to conciliate them proportionately.
Eleven of the sons are in the Government service,
and the other five mean to get there sooner or
later. Periodically the old man plods heavily into
Sydney and “lays” for the member at his club.
When the member sees his shock head and his
spacious boots in the distance he always sends
word that he is out, and takes to flight, but the
patient agriculturist follows him from the club to
his residence, and from his residence to Parlia-
ment House, and sits around on doorsteps till h e
gets him. Then he states his case, which generally
is that Larry or some other member of the family
wants to get into the railway service, or the police
force. Thereupon the member has to get Larry
into a Government billet or lose the support
of the whole clan. The other day he set
to work to create the twelfth public official
in that family, and had just got the trouble
over, as he thought, when the old man came back
and reported that they had decided not to let
Larry into the police-force because he had varicose
veins. “Well, what do you want me to do?”
said the harassed legislator. “I want yez to
stop him havin’ them veins, of course,” said the
father; “can’t ye bring up the subject in the
House?” The senator promised that he would,
and now he is drafting a bill to disfranchise every
citizen having varicose veins, and to make it a
capital offence to have more than eight Civil ser-
vants in one family. The worm has turned at
last. When the old man comes back to demand
Government jobs for the other four sons the poli-
tician’s servant has orders to grind his skull on the
doorstep. Also, the member is looking for a
Government billet himself, for if Larry doesn’t
got into the police force one statesman goes out at
next election for a dead certainty.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 21.
The champion fly-catcher of Australia is a
judge. He is only happy in the summer; in the
winter, when flies are scarce, he wears a melan-
choly aspect, lilce Othello when his occupation was
gone. But in the hot weather he is happy. As
lie sits listening to the evidence, he reaches out
softly after flies, and picks them off the bench or
grabs them in the air. Ho lies in wait for flies
while he is summing up, and he can solve a pro-
found law point and pursue the fleeting insect at
the same time ; in fact, his mental alertness
appears to be much dependent on the pre-
sence of the insect. He sentenced a prisoner
to death once on a blazing January afternoon, after
he had caught flies softly and persistently all through
the trial and all through the summing-up.
Then the jury returned with its verdict,
and the judge, who had retired while the twelve
was considering the case, came back with a dead
fly between bis fingers and resinned his seat on the
bench. The*verdict was “guilty,” the prisoner
had nothing to say, and his Honor proceeded in a
very few words with the sentence. “Prisoner at
the bar.” lie said solemnly, and then he went sud-
denly for a fly that was standing on his official
robes, and caught it, “ yon have been found
guilty of wilful murder” . Here the majesty
of the Jaw made a long shot at a blue-bottle and
looked at the squashed insect thoughtfully. “And
it is now my duty to pass sentence upon you.” The
court, at this stage, threw away the blue-bottle.
“ The sentence of this court is that you be hanged
by the neck ” Then there was another hiatus
while the Bench dived after two flies, and caught
one and smashed the other one aganist 1 lie cushion.
till your body is dead and ” (leanina forward
impressively and raising the hand that*held the
dead insect) “may the Lord have mercy on your
soul.” And as he spoke, his Honor cast his hands
abroad impressively, and threw the deceased fly
straight at the prisoner, as if it was his soul that
he was throwing away. It doesn’t amount to
much in print, but if ever George Titheradge
plays the part of a judge, that dead-fly act would
bring down the house.
* * *
A huge 7ft. seal, seemingly sick or
wounded, was swimming close to the rocks under
Fort Scratchley, Newcastle, N.S.W. A gold-
bedizened officer from the fort, attended by an
orderly with a rifle, two revolvers and ammuni-
tion, came down to slay the monster. Sitting
down, he indicated pantomimically to the orderly
that he wanted his boots taken off. The servant
yanked them off. The seal was then about 20
yards from the edge of the rocks. Resting the
rifle on the orderly’s shoulder the officer took
careful aim and succeeded in missing the beast by
about two feet. Scared by the noise, it made a
break for the open briny. Shortly after it re-
turned, and for about an hour the gallant officer
and his orderly chased it up and down the rocks,
the former taking pots from the latter’s shoulder
whenever the seal came within 30 or 40 yards and
missing it every time with unvarying awkward-
ness. Discouraged by the ironical jibes of the
beachcombers, he abandoned the chase, and after
IN THE GODLY TIME OF THE BOOM.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Each leading man was a white-washed saint
In the Godly time of the Boom,
But the storm of adversity’s cracked the mini
Since the Godly time of the Boom ; "
And the flaws are showing out bold and bare
And the cloven hoofs and the tail are there ’
That hid themselves in an aspect fair
In the pious days of the Boom.
There was feasting and rioting galore
In the goodly time of the Boom,
And the rulers wasted the people’s store
In a joyous way in the Boom ;
And the Chosen Ones of the Christian ranks
Said piously, “ Let us give God thanks,”
As they scooped the rhino into their banks
In the Godly time of the Boom !
And they gathered it in from great and small—
’Twas their pious way in the Boom-
Old men, women, children—all,
They robbed in the time of the Boom ;
The champagne flowed like the crystal stream
Their life passed on in a golden dream, ’
Who then such a fearful smash could deem
Would wreck the “ Elected’s ” Boom.
And one more godly than all was there
In the pious time of the Boom,
Who led the Christian youths in prayer
In a saintly way in the Boom,
And scattered the money of others so free
In aid of the churches and charity,
That Her Gracious made him a C.M.G.,
In the bright hey-day of the Boom.
Now, many of those who knew him well,
In the godly time of the Boom,
Declare he should live in a prison cell
For the deeds he did in the Boom
For the wrong that he wrought to the fatherless
For bringing the widow to distress,
And steeping their souls in bitterness,
Through his cursbd greed in the Boom.
But our rulers shelter him under their wings—
They were brothers all in the Boom
And “Prosecutions are costly things,”
And “ We lost enough in the Boom.”
They dread the evidence brought to light
Would show themselves in a sorry plight,
Compelling some more to take their flight
From the land of the Busted Boom.
R.S.


BOSE ; S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL:
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
the best brink for all.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold !>y ad Storekeepers, etc.
Gbn krai, Agknts:
JULES RENARD & CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY, -
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Press and Subscribers thoroughly satisfied with
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street, Sydney.
Event Dec. 3rd. 10,000 at 5 each.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
Be a swell and smoke GNUN Darlings.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps—Take no other.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— £1 orders.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients.
advt
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“SPECTACLES: their Use, when Required,
aud how lo Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should he
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
463, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
his boots had been put on by the orderly, returned
wet and disgusted to the fort. No man who has
to get his boots yanked off by a servant could hit
a ifiammoth at five paces.
* * m
Graham Berry’s daughters don’t reverse—
it isn’t English.
* # *
The religious papers will, no doubt, shriek
over the depravity of a sumptuous dinner-party,
given by Hopetoun on ante-Cup Sunday,
# # *”
Several of thebigSydneyjevvellersand other
houses talk of closing up after Christmas on
account of the bad times. It is said by at least
one tradesman that a not inconsiderable section
of local society, if unwatched, would leave little
room for anybody to amass a fortune in the
jewellery business. Not very long ago two very
well-to-do ladies drove up to his place and, while
looking through some goods, were caught “ pinch-
ing.” The accusation aroused much wrath, which,
by threats, turned to contrition and the recovery
of the article, together with others taken on pre-
vious occasions. The amount allowed for “ miss-
ings ” in such establishments at stock-taking is
surprising.
* * *
A “ foorce ” of female searchers is to he
established in connection with the Victorian
Customs. The necessity for this arises out of the
fact that no man can find a woman’s pocket.
# * *
To popularise his paper a Melbourne
manager gave his office-boy 500 specimen copies to
distribute at the races, on Cup-day. “I could
have got rid of another thousand,” said the
youngster next J morning. He had sold ’em to a
butcher.
# * #
The “Fireman Duke” of Sutherland is
dead. For long he has been a social nonentity,
for he treated his first wife, a charming woman,
extremely badly, and a month after her death
married a young widow whose name had been
considerably mixed up with his during his wife’s
lifetime. Is is expected that Stai'.Urd House will
once more become a distinguished social centre.
The present (very young) Du'chess is one of the
noble army of globe-trotters, and spent some time
in Australia. Everyone remembers the book in
which she spoke of a certain Sydney society
leader as “a handsome woman with some tall
daughters.” This celebrated sentence is supposed
to have been guilelessly evolved, for the Mar-
chioness of Stafford certainly never managed to
make anyone in Australia believe that she owned
brains.
London Lyric Club lias burst, and a late
proprietor (or joint ditto) is under committal
for forgery. He used Lord Londesborough’s name
to the tune of nearly £75,000, and a cousin of his
own, an officer, has been completely ruined. The
system of finance by forged bills has been going
on for years. Where the money went to no one
can tell. There wore 1100 members at .£lO 10s. a
year, and most of these paid an entrance fee of £2l
in addition. This, one would, have thought, would
have been enough to keep the club going. The
Lyric (says The Bulletin’s London correspon-
dent) was a great haunt of Australians, who
thought themselves no end of swells in being
admitted to that semi-Bohemian circle. One
always met a queer lot there. The raison d'etre of
such clubs as these was to afford mummer-wor-
shippers an opportunity of meeting actors and
other people wliqin the law considers vagabonds,
and hob-nob with them, but since so many of the
“ upper crust ” have taken to the boards, and are
to be met in private houses, people no longer care
to pay a heavy yearly subscription for the privi-
lege of staring at them.
* # #
Last year a man in Melbourne sent a jar
of pickled locusts to a friend in England as Aus-
tralian mosquitoes.
* • «
A favourite drink of the unemployed is
fresh milk. They watch the milkman filling the
jugs on the verandahs early in the morning, and
call later on.
The position
of Official His-
torian of N. S.
Wales is again
going a-begging.
There are scores
of candidates, but
only about three
thereof all of
them N. S. Wales
residents have
any possible
chance.
* * #
It was in a
compartment of
the Melbourne
Cup express and
everyone had set-
tled down for the
night. Suddenly
one man who had
been fast asleep
started up with a
scream. The fool
had been dream-
ing, and his fellow
passengers frown-
ed at him for dis-
turbing them.
Next instant the
ladies shrieked
simultaneously,
and sprang upon
the seats. A “rat”
had run out of
the pocket of one
lady and climbed
upon her head.
The lady seized
the animal and
held it out at arm’s
length. It coiled
its tail around
her forefinger and
suspended itself
head - downwards.
It was a small
ring-tail opossum.
“It is my chief
pet,” said its
owner, “and I
always carry it in
my pocket.”
* # *
Last Saturday
was Guy Fawkes’
Day. Well, let
us dynamite all
our K.C.M.G.s.
Stated about Sydney that Rev. Laserou
thinks of suing legislator Walker for civil
damages re that shooting affair.
* # •
A member of Parliament, idiosyncratically
prominent just now, is about to bring a divorce
action against Mrs. Member. The case concerns
more one legislator.
* * *
Notwithstanding that there are but few
Chinese at Newcastle, N.S.W., nine Jegal mar-
riages between yellow men and white women have
been recently celebrated there. The Caucasian is
evidently played out. The white man can’t afford
a wifenow-a : days.
» #
A Brisbane (Q.) firm, the other day,
advertised for “a boy.” Over a hundred appli-
cants—from youths up to grayheaded men—
turned up. It was loudly announced that the
wages were only 15s. a week, but only a few of the
applicants moved away.
* * #
In Sydney Y.M.C.A. Hall, last Saturday,
a native Indian missionary told an audience that,
besides preaching to the heathen in Poonah, he
dispensed physio, “ thus getting still nearer their
hearts.” This may serve with some people, but
the missionary does not live who could win our
affections with a dose of castor-oil.
* # #
A man’s wife died lately in Geelong It
happened on a Monday, and on the Tuesday he
had a notice in the paper re her death, ending up
with, “Gone, but not forgotten,” Talk about
constancy !
# * *
■ A Melbourne man relates that he received
193 replies to an ad. for board and lodging, appear-
ing once on the same day in Age and Argus.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemaue and Son’
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Advt. from Gosford (N.S.W.) Times :
NOTICE.
TF any Female has anv claim on me, lit her come
J forward within 14 diys from this date.—JAMES
WELLS, Oct. 16, 1892.
Your hand, James Wells. How many males of
the Social Purity Society would dare to fling down
such a challenge ?
Only one Melbourne parson ventures on a
cigar, in public, but a bush one defies Melbourne
with his pipe.
« # #
Cook’s tour round the world is the first-
prize this year for 1 he A.N. A. Eete, at Melbourne.
# # #
Deaconesses or young widows, is the
puzzle over a number of ladies now turning up in
the Melbourne streets.
• • *
An opal breast-pin was worn by Glenloth’s
jockey. Another superstition gone !
ITEM FROM BROKEN HILL.
VISITOR (from ’Ome): "And how, my good fellah, did the —aw—town get
the—aw—name of —aw—Broken Hill?”
BROKEN HILL PUBLICAN (gloomily): “Hanged if I know. P’raps because
the name suited the place so well.”
VISITOR: “Aw, I undabtand. Those stupid minahs?”
BROKEN HILL PUBLICAN (vigorous'y): “No! Those blank blank blank
directors!”
(Exit visitor with the impression that all Australians are anarchists.)
Even the Argus claims that Bank directors
and strikers should be on the one footing.
• # »
Sydney just now is the city of sin, sweat,
and borrow.
* * *
London advertisements :
SLATER’S DETECTIVES (MALE and FEMALE) for
SECRET WATCHINGS, ascertaining where people
go, what they do, the company they keep, whether
the club is responsible for late hours” and if shopping-
alone occupies so much time,
a LATER’S DETECTIVES for FURNISHING MATRI-
MONIAL DETAILS as to the social position, past
character, future prospects, general habits, and
temper of the intended partner for life, in order to
make marriage a success.
TVIOMEN.— Many men say women have been their
'' downfall, but HENRY SLATER owes his success
to his lady detectives for secret watchings, inquiries,
&c.—a speciality in detective work for which he is the
, pioneer.
CjOUTH COAST.—SLATER’S now have Male and
Female Assistants resident at Brighton, Rams-
gate, Margate, Eastbourne, and Hastings for secret
watchings in all towns on the South Coast.
» • *
There is a blind beggar in Sydney who
knows his way about in more respects than one.
Asa rule, be keeps the sound optic shut, but
when particularly drunk he winks this other eye,
and occasionally reads the paper in a long-beer
bar. Some time ago a man tried to pick his
pocket, blit the beggar detected him and gave him
in charge. The magistrate, on sentencing the
accused, told him that one who was able to earn
his living should be ashamed to rob another who
had lost his sight.
Dr. Christian Endeavour Clark: “I like
the moral tone of the leading Australian news-
papers.” Naturally. “The leading Australian
newspapers ” write especially for Clark and
advertisers.
Dear Bulletin,—If a snake be held up
by tiie tail, has it the power to turn upwards as
far as the hand, so as to bite? An answer in the
negative meets with almost universal incredulity.
I venture the opinion, based on a personal trial,
that the reptile can only curl upwards a few
inches.—Yours, The Orphan. Perhaps some
correspondent will reply. We have never held up
a snake which hadn’t a broken back.
They never allowed travellers to stay at
the station, and seldom gave them rations. A sun-
downer sauntered up to the boss one evening.
Traveller: “Good evening. May I stop to-
night?” Boss : “ Certainly not.” Traveller goes to
hut, throws down swag, and says boss told him he
could stop that night. After breakfast traveller
goes up to the house. Boss; “What, you here
yet! ” Traveller : “Yes ; I asked you if I could
stay the night, and you replied ‘certainly not,’ ”
Boss; “Well?” Traveller: “ My name is Nott.”
Paris, the cable tells us, has outdone
Whitechapel in mutilative crime. The body of a
woman has been there found in an unfinished
building, cut into 12 pieces. Imagination here
stands aghast. There may be extenuating circum-
stances. The murdered woman may have married
her daughter to the murderer. She may have
inveigled him into her house and fed him on
home-made pie. She may have been his wife,
and endowed with conversational powers of no
mean order. Yet even a talkative wife should not
be cut into more than two pieces.
S. E. Lees, M.P. for Nepean, N.S.W.,
disturbed a Springwood picnic of wood-trade men
recently. Sammy, who is an aggressive and un-
compromising teetotaller, heard somebody “ hoo-
ray ing” his approach, and incautiously tendered
his hand to the foremost of a hilarious crowd of
bacchanals, who, thereupon, hung upon his neck
and breathed second-hand beer-fumes into his
nostrils, and tore his collar and trampled upon his
immaculate hard-hitter, and generally effaced his
body from the landscape for a time—all in pure
affection and untamed joy for their beloved
member.
Sympathy is one of the noblest and most
characteristic of the human passions. Who has
not heard the expression, “ It makes my heart
bleed to hear a recital of that woman’s wrongs or
this man’s suffering?” Sympathy is a natural
outcome of a pure, good and benevolent spirit; it
is an offering which the most lowly can pay to the
tribulations of their suffering fellow beings, which
the most exalted and wealthy can bestow on their
equals and peers in the life of this nether world.
A most wonderful sympathetic influence exists
between the human brain and all parts of the
physical being. All the nerves centre in the
brain, and no part of the physical organism can be
affected or disorganised without immediate know-
ledge being carried to the brain - the centre of the
spiritual being—immediately; not the finest point
of the finest needle can be applied to any part of
the body without the brain immediately becoming
cognisant of the fact, so perfect and wonderful is
the telegraph-like connection of every part of the
body with the brain. The nerves oovpr the entire
surface and ramify into every point of the
structure; a disordered liver or stomach causes
headache; rheumatism makes pain appear at the
affected part; so does neuralgia, toothache, &c.
The pain is only felt in the brain, though the sen-
sation appears to be in the part that is affected.
This is becaaise sensations are only experienced at
the extremities of the sensory nerves, and by a
wonderful provision of nature enables us to locate
the position of any unnatural condition of any
organ or function. Wherever there is pain there
is a chance of disease, and one cannot be too care-
ful in giving immediate attention to such matters.
A vigorous treatment should commence with
Clements Tonic. This remedy will cause all
members of the body to resume their natural
work ; it will assist digestion, assimilation, secre-
tion and excretion ; will restore sound and vigor-
ous action to all organs and tissues. This is
proved in the many cases which have been treated
with this wonderful remedy. Mrs. M. Huckle,
nurse, Sale, writes:—“For the last 25 years I
have been a martyr to indigestion and severe
attacks of biliousness, accompanied by acute pains
between the shoulders and in the left side. At
times I have been reduced to such a state of weak-
ness that I have felt as if death would have been
a relief. _ For years I consulted doctors, but with-
out receiving any benefit. I had taken so many
medicines without relief that at last I had lost all
hope of ever regaining my health. A lady friend
of mine persuaded me, at last, to give Clements
Tonic a trial. I did so, and I can say with truth
that the result was almost magical. I am now
better than I have been for the last 20 years. I
am only too happy to recommend Clements Tonic
to all who have suffered like myself. As I am well
known in Sale, you are at liberty to make what-
ever use you like of this, and I hope it may be the
, means of bringing relief to others who have
suffered as I have done.” Miss E. Sayer, Rose-
dale, Victoria, writes; —“I have suffered for
several years from biliousness and severe headaches,
and have tried several remedies without getting
any better. Hearing of Clements Tonic from a
friend, I was induced to try one bottle, which did
me a lot of good. I am now faking the second
bottle, and can safely say that I feel greatly
benefited, having recovered rny appetite and lost
the severe bilious attacks.”
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
THE SPECULATOR’S TOAST.
But a wave of disaster ns resistless and as independent
of any single human act, as the tidal wave which the
eruption of Krakatoa sent across Eastern seas, has swept
into ruin almost every financial institution dealing with
landed properties. A story unstained, hy pers r nal wrong-
doin'], &c. —Review of Reviews, re difficulties of certain
Victorian magnates.
Here’s a health to daring ventures ! Here’s success
to ev’ry boom !
Here’s a health to bogus bankers ! May the syn-
dicator bloom !
Here a healtli to cent-per-centers ! Here’s a bless-
ing on their name !
For in all their little troubles there is nobody to
blame.
If you bo a bank-director and vour institution
fail,
Should your balance-sheet be doctored, should
you qhanee to go to gaol,
Just inform the trusting widows when they make
their little claim,
In such terrible disasters there is nobody to
blame.
Should you chance to lay your dollars on a duffer
for the Cup,
Should you find j ourself a ruin when you come to
settle up;
Should your family be stranded, should your
neighbours murmur, “ Shame !”
Just inform them —in such troubles there is nobody
to blame.
Here a health to corner ’lotments ! Here’s success
to wild-cat scrip !
Here’s a health to ev’ry honest soul who gives an
honest tip !
. Here’s a health to all financiers in distress —and
, here’s the same
To all the little innocents who never are to blame.
Should your penchant for the bottle and the ballet
suck you dry,
Should your purse be quickly waning, while your
bills are mounting high,
It will soothe you when old Shylock puts the
cloture on your game,
To reflect that, in such sad affairs, there’s nobody
to blame.
Should your wife obtain an inkling of your doings
at the club,
Of your time and substance wasted on the turf and
in the pub. ;
Should she raise her voice in protest, just inform
the angry dame
In such scandalous proceedings there is nobody to
blame.
Here’s a health to dear old poker ! Here’s a glass
to rouge-et-noir !
Here’s a health to lovely thimblerig and royal
baccarat !
For, beside such fierce allurements, friend, all
other joys are tame,
And, in case they leave you high and dry—why,
nobody’s to blame 1 •
P. LUFTIG.
THE WOMAN OF MY HEART.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The woman of my heart was first
The woman of my mind
I saw her in the flashing foam,
I heard her in the wind.
She kissed me in the ocean’s salt,
Her breath my senses stole ;
I looked into the starry vault •
Of heaven and saw her soul.
The woman of my heart is now
The world and all to me ;
The radiant heaven is her brow,
Her eyes—the dreaming sea.
The mystery of life is she,
Whose love fills boundless space ;
Eternal life shall bring to me
The love-light of her face.
DINGO B.
A ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne.
On the south, to my right hand,
A mountain rises from the land,
Forest-clad and tempest-fanned.
Up to northward stretches wide
The sea, that here and there is pied
With foam-flecks that a moment bide.
Beside the grey sea’s ancient bed
A rgad runs eastward, long and red,
By which two villages are wed.
To you, ’tis but a country road,
Where weary oxen draw their load;
To me, ’tis that to Love’s abode.
To me that long, red road is worth
More than all roads upon the earth,
Since first this world of ours had birth:
For on it, when the sky is bright
With stars that stud the dome of night,
I meet my love by pale moonlight.
STEELE GREY.


The Workman cays that Parkcs bolted to
Temora because he was announced to take the
chair at a Balmain no-compensation meeting as a
K.C.M.G. Now, as ’.Kncry is a G.C.M.G. this
annoyed him fearfully.
Canon Potter’s (Melb.) novel, “ The Germ
Growers,” under fear of Bishop Goo was pub-
lished as the joint composition of two imaginary
authors, but the pardonable vanity of the Canon
could not be satisfied w.thout his name oozing out.
Yet it’s dismal trash.
Very easy, even now, to get a Government
billet in N.S.W.—at least in one large depart-
ment of the public service. Modus operandi :
Become a Government House young man, belaud
the Primrose League, and leave the rest to vice-
royalty. Rumoured that one Minister has no
eyes save for applications approved by the Jersey
family. Let Rose ask a question on the subject.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The S.M. Herald advocates a coalition,
thinking it would kill the balancing power now
held by the N.S.W. Labour party. Wrong again.
If the Conservative leaders of Protectionists and
Freetraders can “sink the fiscal question ” so can
their Radical followers, and that trouble being
got rid of, both sections are absolved of allegiance
to either brand of fisealistn and its whilom leaders,
and are therefore free to join the now cross-bench
crowd in forming a new Opposition.
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 07 Oxford-st., Sydney.
Subscribers may witness. December Handicap at
Rosehill. 10,000 at 5.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George R'g.mld.
EVERY EVENING and UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
will be produced, by special arrangement
with Mr. J. C. W illir,mso:i,
“THE SILVER MIW Gr.”
Mr. Geo. Rignold as Wilfred Denver.
A ■■minted by an Exceptionally Powerful Cast.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
qoogee palace aquarium.
Proprietor .. .. Mr. W.m. Larmoub.
Every Sunday Afternoon
» High ■ class and Enjoyable Concert- *
Quadrille Assembly every Wednesday Afternoon.
The Marble Swimming Baths now Open.
Ladies from 10 till 2 Daily.
rpHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
42T All Raihoay Travelling. 1S&
Apply for particulars, cable address —“OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. B.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
f
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. (id., 155., 215., 235.
(id., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. (id., 18s. (id., steel reeds, 215., and 235. (id.
Anglos, best kind, Kss., rosewood, 475. 0 1., s'eel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and 17 10s.
Autobavp Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. To be obtained through
any music-seller or stationer in Australia, or direct fiom
J ALBERT & SON, 108 King-street. Cheapest Music
Warehouse in Australia. Illustrated catalogues and par-
ticulars posted FREE.
ST. BERNARD’S.
A FEW GOOD PUPS by M‘Leod’s BRUCE,
by WALLACE (imported), out of my
Bitch UNA, by Champion MONK. Well-marked
and healthy.
W. SANDERS,
Australia Street, Woollahra
(near Bondi Junction).
SELF COHENGE
Young Men, who have lost this most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and suffer
from Private Nervous and Skin Diseases, producing
bashfulness, want of energy, nervousness, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay, head-
ache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints, pimples,
weak 'stomach, impure blood, contagious diseases, <U.,
should send for Dr. M. Perry’s work on Nervous De-
bility. It will describe their case most minutely,
and point out, with unerring accuracy, the best
means of rapid and effectual cure, without
MERCURY OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Or.
1V1.R.C.5.) X..S*A.) &c*j
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Makes a
Speciality
of Private NER-
VOUS & Skin Diseas
In-
eluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY AND PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in
Dr. Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to
how this most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr Perry supplies his patients with the most
perfect modern Electric Appliances for pains or
weakness in any part of the body. He supplies a
Genuine Electric Belt, from which the current
can he distinctly pelt, for Tl. Electric Baths tor
Consulting Patients.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m.
on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address—l6l Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Shipping.
En g land via aMVR r 0 A
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OE NEW ZEALAND
(Limited!,
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OE SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco, as under;—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £O3 and £GG.
Combination Ticket, £52 I Os. and £57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
rtOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE,• KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY.
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from ±’2o to £63,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
B. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
grand iroT^
.iGsgifajm
!
MELBOURNE,
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £S 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
For bedsteads, children’s cots,
Spring Mattresses and Bedding.
GO TO
LAWLERS,
608 Gcorge-street.
FOR Austrian, American and Cane CHA IRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and Balcony Seats;
for Camp Folding Bedsteads, with Woven Wire
Spring Mattresses,
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
orTcarpets, linoleumsTfloor'-
CLOTHS, Rugs, Mats, Blinds, Malting
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Materials, Tapestries,
Plushes, Gimps and Cords, etc.
GO TO
LAWLER’S.
For toilet sets, china' glass-
ware, Dinner and Tea Sets, Cups and
Saucers, Cruets, Cutlery and Plated- ware, Mangles,
Copper Boilers and Stoves.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
FOR HALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing .Room Furniture,
Bedroom and Kitchen Furniture,
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
Write for Estimates.
J" OIIN LAWLE R and S~ON S
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinetmakers,
608 GEORGE STREET. Established 1860.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES Free by
poston application addressed to the Head Office of
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
, 608 George-street.
L
a
The Premier Beverage.
We Drink Nothing - Else.
F 1 is a drink that will fill a long felt want. It will ox-
hilarate and not intoxicate. While it is delicim s *■• > 'ie
taste, it has rare medicinal qua'ities. It is guarani < o
be free from all impurities, being prepared from th n o
extracts of fruit and herbs. Royal Club Nectar a d ■ d
soda water is equal to the finest champagne. Ron a ib
Nectar, pure or mixed with water, is very delicious it is
the best Summer drink ever introduced. It gre'alij im-
proves the flavor of any kind of spirits. Everyone likes
it. No hotelkeeper should be without it. Price 455. per
case.
LUCAS BROS.,
AGENTS,
5 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Aqents Wanted.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
*
(REGISTERED).
£3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
GOUGHS, GOLDS,
KitomiEins
AND
T N F Ij U.E NZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.G.S., Eng.
113
! -a«ss
tit
: ;.:;:ip;; : .... ::
: •••
i2ar.
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
located at
HO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering U caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men 1 feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, acaieful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
My life-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chrcnic, Skin, and Special
Disc scs. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
I LACK OF ENERGY, FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Arising from Indiscretion. Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects—Nervousness.
Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
Females, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to Marry,
Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forms, affecting Body, Nose. Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Aono, Eczema, Old S*res, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Uemedies. S iff . ml
Swollen Joints and Tiheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CSUIISSSSD. toft feeling bunch of earth like
worms— TAItICOCEIiE, S'* <10715 ABSiK WBTBBOttJT O KOSAT B ©IV by Surgeon
Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, price £2. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes ticat d successfully. ESciptnrc
instantly relieved and permanently cured. Fits, Epilepsy ,or falling sickness radically c-red. I use only the
best remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders anil specious promised cure-alls— they
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are Dented with
skill in a respectful manner ; and knowing what to do, lo Experiments arc made. Home
Treatment. Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home.
Those requiring- Immediate Treatment can by forwarding particulars of their case
and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post. Before confiding- your ease else-
where, Consult the Old and Successful Specialist, STBGEOIIAIGBTOI. Age
and experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden years to life. \o mercury or poisonous drug-s used.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—The Only Qualified Surgeon piactising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
CONSULTATION FREE
GNORANCE NOT BLISS.
The above illustration represents the person
who doesn’t believe there is a cure for neuralgia.
If a friend presumes to suggest that he should
“ bear it like a man,” and assures him it “ will be
all right by-and-bye,” he retails language which
out of respect for our readers, we will refrain from
re-producing. He dispenses scowls strong enough
to crack an enamelled dish. He hugs his face
with hot cloths and hates himself and everybody
—even his mother-in-law—and occasionally kicks
chairs, and butts his head against unoffending
walls. He declares that neuralgia is a thing to
read about, not to experience, and he means to
have his false teeth extracted to see if that won’t
stop it. All of which conduct is very foolish ;
for if he would only invest half-a-crown in a bottle
of St. Jacobs Oil, and apply it according to direc-
tions, the whole trouble would be at an end. In
most cases the first application will effect the
desired end, and in no case has it ever been known
to fail. It acts like magic in expelling rheumatism
and all bodily aches and pains.
The Waterhury Watches
FOR CORRECT TIME.
Relief from Cough in 10 Minutes.
Mcti/mccn's ‘
' / £t cl Isct m
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, GOUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, Sc.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE.
Immediately it Is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.Jt. Office, Belled!, Co. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.— July, 1891.
1 Sold by all Chemists at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd,, Sydney.
d
Book o± Mature.
Book of Nature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Manage
Guide. A full and explicit explanation of tne
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the inarnea,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the into
and nature of con jugal pleasures and duties, to which
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting tio
infection or abuse, with ranch other valuable and hign j
important information, illustrated with more than nip
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process
gestation, from the time of conception to the period
delivery. No such complete panorama of mysteu •
of human production has ever before been given to t
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, posi
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics niaut
easy, enabling anyone to become ail expert boxer an
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote p
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Compan
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besai ■
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, / >
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it ««>,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, l/-> •
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/0. «''
to Mesmerise, Thought. Reading, Mesmeric Entertai
merits, &c., price 1/0. Dancing without a master- ua
room Guide and Self-iiittiuctrr, by Prof. Peltzer, 1/3.
“Every Man his own Sclioolmast A', or How
Educate 'One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/0. m-ess
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, i >
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c.. 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work contain! „
the tricks and' deceptions with cards ever mr , ~'
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and p
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3. , . in
Tlie Male Generative Organs, their use and an ,
health and disease, from infancy to old age, «i
treatment of all their derangements, for every n ? a
private use ; illustrated by numerous engraving .
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new _ ~ _
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gut, P p L
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 10
Si net, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
■(ought ami Exchangwl.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON AIEV •
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hot^J
66
T
ALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price Is., by post Is.


' Your Own House by sen ling for Tickets to
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-st., Sydney.
10,000 at 5 e ch.
Gala, c/o'H. Alexander, (57 Oxford-st.,
December Handicap at Rosehill, Deo. 3,
at 5. Filling rapidly.
Sydney.
. 10,000
Out for a stroll, smoke GNUN Darlings.
Better than Broken Hills —G NUN Darlings.X
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
c£l-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
At Marriekville you can buy 6NUN Darlings.
ASTHMA
CURE
write ron
D*
HAIR’S /
<3
treatise/Q
W ’
ents
Melbourne
Rocke.lompsiKK
SYDNEY; BllOtt BfO?
Brisbane: Elliott bros>(
Adelaide ; FH.FauldmiTyC
Welli n GTOM.Hi.Shariand&rC;
Sharland & C? .
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
a ~r Will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
B nothin?, so that Sufferers may have an oppor-
tunity of testing the truth of what I fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no reason
why you should continue to suffer. Send at once for
my TREATISE and a L-’rtEE BOTTLE of Medicine. It
cts's jot nothing for a trial, and IT WILIi CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & CO .
98, O’Connell St., N. Adelaide, S. Australia
H. Gr. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Emtni Road, London.
BRIGGS’
K TRANSFER
y PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
inelliok Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd,
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Books, containing upwards of 700
Designs, bound in One Volum °, post free, Is. Od.
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
JJ326 Flinders Lane,
M E L BO URN E.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(EEST IN THE WOULD.)
R3P To be obtained from all Grocers and S'i’OßE-
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
..•••• i.
SATIN
LADIES!
Use Only
BROWN’S 1
SATIN
POLISH j
on your
Boots
and
Shoes.
Sold by all Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
ROSEHILL DECEMBER HANDICAP.
Run December 3rd.
At 5 each 10,000 At 5 cab
THE SUMMER CUP 20th DECEMBER.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
Ei’Sh 1500; Second, 000: Ih'rd, 300" S. (do, 600;
N.S. (d,), 400 ; 20 at 20, 400 ; 30 at 10, 300 ; 100 at 5, 600 ;
100 Consolations at 2 e :ch ; 200 at 1 er.ch.
TATTERSALL’S CUP -2nd JANUARY.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
State amount enclosed, and two stamped-addressed
envelopes with application one for receipt and the
other for result. Register your lett-rs. Stamps will be
received if 5 per cent, exchange is added wiih f 11 amount.
Address; GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 07 Oxford street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Printed circulars free.
TATTERSa llb
WARWICK HANDICAP.
Run at Warwick Farm, November 19, 1892.
5000 at 10 5000
ROSEHILL DECEMBER HANDICAP.
Run at Bosebill, December 3, 1892-.
10.000 at 10 10,000
S XT M IVE BR O XT P.
Run at Rvndwick, De. e nl er 26, 1892.
50,000 at 10 50,000
Carrington Stakes.
Run at Randwick, December 31, 1892.
50.000 at 10 50,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take cave of the
receipt for registration till you receive our reply. Address,
Tattersall, care of George Adams (owner), Pitt-sh, S dney.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, November 7, 1892.
r 1 LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &e., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1(3.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lismore to Hang-
ing Rock, at Walsh’s Crossing.
Bridge, Dartbcook Creek, road Scone to Mmriwa
Concrete Walls for Bridge, Doughboy Creek,
road Tarrago to Braidwood
Bridge, Cuttagai Lake, road Bega to Bermagui
Erection of Pig and Calf Pens, Woolgoolga And
Goff’s Harbour
Construction of Iron Grill over yards, Lockup
Gaol, Balranald
Construction of Timber Horseboat for Bega River,
on road Tathra to the Wapengue. (Fresh
tenders.)
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Moulamein.
(Time extended.)
Manufacture, within the colony, and Supply of
Suspension Bolts, &c., for Bridges
Stable Excavation, Drainage, &0., Post and Tele-
graph Office, Moss Yale
Erection of Post and Telegraph Office, Mulwala
Additions, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Nowra
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30.
Bridge, Macquarie River, at Gin Gin, road
Trangie to Collie
Construction of Conci'ete Arch Culvert for Gar-
diner’s Road, Botany, at No. 7 Dam
Erection of Strong Room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale
Construction of Embankment for protection of
river bank. Great Marlen, Clarence River
Works in connection with Water Supply, Hay
Repairs, Court House, Bellingen
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14.
Manufacture, &0., of Thirty-seven Coils of Gal-
vanised Crucible Steel Wire Rope
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bullallaba, road
Braidwood to Cooma
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: MCCARTHY A CO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address ;
MCCARTHY & CO., Tobacco Mierdiants,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Broken Hill strike lias at last been declared
“off.” Now the blacklegs will get their inevitable
reward : the weak ones, of whom there are crowds, will he
run out to make room for the best of the strikers.
# * *
A Sydney man says he will, by way of a start,
shortly run a big train-load of chrome ore into the city
from a mine near Gundagai.
* * *
A week or two ago, just when the English press
was in the middle of its comments on the financial institu-
tions of Australia, the financial institutions of England
started to go broke in an alarming fashion. In less than
a month, eight or nine banks and the like have placidly
flickered out. The worst smash seems to be that of the
Lbn-ator Building Society; liabilities, as per cablegram,
£3,250,000; assets, £50,000; reserve fund, a sham and
soul-destroying lie; prospects, nothing in the £. The
Liberator was an amusing office in its time, and in its
latter days it used to borrow money from the Hebrews at
17 per cent., in order to keep the whited sepulchre afloat
a little longer. In consequence of these revelations The
Bulletin has cabled to the London Times that Australian
confidence in British credit is much shaken, and that
Britain ought to do something to set herself right before
the world. This cablegram, so far as we know, hasn’t
been published yet.
* * *
A Melbourne paper remarks that “no bank
whose depositors are sufficiently numerous and whose
premises are sufficiently restricted need ever fail.”
There is a great and solemn truth in that statement. It
a savings bank has 10,000 small depositors, and there is
very little room in the narrow space before the counter,
and there are only two tellers on duty, and they waste a
little time checking each bank-book before they_ pay out
so that only about 36 customers can get their money
in an hour, and 30 of these are bogus customers—a very
ancient and successful device—who merely keep drawing
out and paying in money to block the panic-stricken mul-
titude, then the run might last for a month and yet not
one-thirteenth of the crowd have got their deposits out,
and by that time the directors might all be in Central
America with the reserve-fund.
* # *
One of the Melbourne associated banks about
which there were ugly rumours last year, has recently
discharged some 20 clerks. These will probably he re-
placed by others at reduced screw. When Chinese ledger-
keepers and Kanaka tellers run these institution* the
colUr-and-cuff brigade will perhaps cease howling in the-
“ Cawse " of capital.
* *■ *
Purves, Q.C., Madden, Q.C., Higgins, Leon,
Isaacs, and all the great legal guns of Melbourne, have
been "retained,” in case of emergency, by several
busted financial ex-magnites who tremble at current
whispers. But the Crown has a first lien on the ser-
vices of the Q.C.’s.
# #
Melbourne Leader sarcasm : “ The Australian
Banking Co. s.'cms to have been a bank where
the wild time grew, for bills were kept running
so long as they' paid a big interest, and security—
that is to say, security of depositors—was the last thing
thought of. " One manager was charged with swindling
by the directors, and as ha incontinently bolted the en-
tire hoard pursued him down the street, leaving the bank
to take care of itself. That was the only period when it
was comparatively safe.”
# * *
The weekly reports issued by the “big ” men of
Sydney Stock E mhange are doleful reading. One speaks
of the” “volume of business being exceedingly small.”
Another “ that it is absolutely impossible to write any-
thing of a novel character this week because the markets
have been as dead as nails,” but consolingly t.d ls: “ when
the tim come i our friends and readers know we are on the
spot.” B th predict a big improvement; a third more
truthfully admits the cheerl-.se, hopeless outlook.
# * *
A big unsatisfied demand for shale having set
in, the shale-bummer is stalking abroad. Worthless shale
can bs found a'most anywhere in N.S.W., yet good
samples are so scarce that the N.S.W. Shale Co. have to
w toh their truck-loads at Darling Harbour. Beware of
the man who wants you to go into a shale-syndicate. We
heard of one who went into the country recently and
secured a block of shale land, and then wired to his city
confrere to send up some good samples of shale. They
were sent, and he returned with undeniable evidences of
his great shale discovery.
* * *
It is now alleged of the Yilgarn (W.A.)crush-
ings that they are made up of mighty big tons. We can
quite believe it. There are many Adelaide men in those
big mines, and, if they did not introduce the big ton idea
into N.S.W., it was ceitdnly not for want of practice.
# « *
Satisfactory that the stones sent to London
from the New England emerald mine have been pro-
nounced true emen 1 Is by Streeter, who says their chief
fault is their lightness of colour, but lie has no doubt
darker ones will he found at a greater depth. At one
time such an opinion would have floated any gem-mine.
Times have changed ; moreover, the Burmah gem-mine
which Streeter h - pod to float in London last year has not
made people’s fortune.
# * *
The cable states the acceptance by the Lull rig
Co. of the £1000 challenge issued by Parke and Lacy on
behalf of the Frue Vanner. It also mentions that the
conditions of the competition are to be posted shortly.
We again predict that these concentrators will never meet
in open competition —the match will break down on the
question of conditions.
' # * •
It is time the Last Call boomed again. Observe
the sensational character of the latest report: “ Four feet
added to depth of mine without change-commenced
cross cutting east at 38-foot level, three hands extending
eastern cross-cut from main shaft. And to think 10,000
sovereigns was paid for half of it, and that subsequently
this salted mine had a market-value of £400,000 ! Ye
gods ! . *
* * *
Shareholders complain to us of the manner in
which money is being wasted in the Last Call mine. The
directors, no doubt, frankly admit it, but say that they
have no alternative but to go on. In a case like this the
companies’ law should he sufficiently elastic to allow of
capital innocently subscribed to work a mining swindle
being placed, say, in one or more Tat.tersall s ±100,000
sweeps By that means there would be a chance of the
victimised subscribers getting some of their money back ;
there is certainly none working the mine. More than one
Last Call man has piteously enquired : “ Might not some-
thing rich yet be struck if they go deep enough ? The
Bulletin admits the “might” and “it.” Exactly the
same thing might occur in any man’s backyard. Even a
*salt«d” mine might turn out really rich.
# * *
The crushings of the True Blue mine, Oroydon,
continue as incomprehensible if not as reprehensible as
ever.
* * *
The second biggest mining man in Bendigo now,
next to Lansell, is Dr. Atkinson, who for more than a
quarter of a century has combined medicine with mining,
and the two with much matrimony.
# * •
According to the recently issued half-yearly
report of Mt. Stewart mine, the profit on working
amounted to £10,810, over £4000 of which has gone to
wipe off the debit balance. The directors say dividends
have been prevented by unforeseen accidents to plant and
excessive railway charges on coke and bullion ; but as
they cannot prevent one or control the other it is useless
to give these things as excuses. They might more reason-
ably have said that had the ore contained another ooz. of
silver per ton a big dividend would have been declaied.
The Co., however, is to be complimented upon the
economical management and the care and watchfulness
displayed by the directors ; it only remains to hope that
the great desideratum-richer, ore—will be smelted during
the current half year.
# * *
The United Bluey reefs mine is also at Stewart’s
Brook, another mismanaged concern in whi -h everything
has been condemned for losing the go'd instead of the reef
for not containing it in payable quantity. First a
battery, then a Huntingdon Mill. The last report says
that there a"e over two oz. per ton left in the tailings
although the average amount saved is only 10 dwts. They
even oont- n I that the tailings contain more gold than the
pyrites. Mines are judged by results, and those ot (he
United Bluey have been ignominious.
* # *
An effort to resurrect the Royal Standard mine,
Stewart Brook, N.S.W., is being made. It is offered on
the easiest possible terms—no promoters’ shares, no cash,
and the mine, plant, and tools thrown in for threepence
per share application and allotment money. Some years
ago, the mine paid seven monthly dividends, and shares,
7s. 6d. paid, reached 275. Gd. To drain the mine a tunnel
was put in 750 feet at the base of hire mountain, and, as
might have been expected, in so small a reef it had no
effect. The shoot of gold is contained in an 8-in. reef,
and is about GO feet in length. Had the tunnel been
driven 150 feet instead of 350 below the old workings, or
the mine worked and drained through a shaft, it would
have been working to-day. The madness of driving this
long tunnel killed the show.
* * *
Two hand-drilling contests are recorded in
Montana, America. Two miners are said to have bored
38in. in a quarter of an hour ; two others 33 inches, both
in hard granite rock! If the rock was hard the time is
false, and if the time is true the rook wasn’t hard. We
have seen some of the best of Australian hammermen
but we never met two men who could bore 3ft. of hard
granite in a quarter of an hour. And we never shall. It
takes a rock-drill, worked by compressed air, all its time
to do this. It would take two good men at least two
hours to bore three hard feet in the ordinary way, and no
amount of desperate belting would enable them to do it
in one-eighth of that time. 3ft. 2in. hard granite in 15
minutes! The Cousin Jack “ upper ” man should smile.
• # *
Agents of the different refractory-ore processes
are issuing nonsensical challenges to each other. One
man threatens a £IO,OOO wager as soon as his machinery
arrives. For the same reason they will never meet—the
conditions that might suit one might be disadvantageous
to another. Australia is being inundated with new and
wonderful gold-saving inventions. The everlasting din of
“ refractory ores,” “ gold lost in the tailings,” has had its
effect. The great want is gold in the ore.
# # •
The Bourke-sfc. block upon which the Melbourne
Y.M.C.A. Hall stands was bought, at hoora-time, from
Matthew Davies. It would be interesting to know what
Matthew gave for the land, and what the Young Men
paid, so that we might appreciate the sacrifice the apostle
Matthew made for the “caws.”
# # #
In N.S.W. gold has been found in almost every
conceivable form of matrix. So many surprises have
occurred and so many well-worn theories upended that
we are quite prepared to remain unperturbed when a man
comes along with the discovery of a combined coal and
gold-mine. At Pambula we have a field so puzzling that
it is impossible to tell where the lode begins or _ the
country rook ends. Usually when the rook is barren it is
described as “country,” and when not, as ore. Tunnels
have been driven for the “lode” which has been passed
unobserved. The theory that quartz was the only matrix
for gold has been shattered, particularly by Mount
Morgan, Nevertheless, it is the main matrix to which
all others are exceptions’ to the rule—however bril-
liant these exceptions may occasionally be. Some-
times gold is treacherous and erratic in the best_ of
defined quartz fissures, but it is very seldom anything
else in any other matrix. In the great truly-formed and
permanent soddle-backs of Bendigo and the rapidly under-
laying quartz fissures of Charters Towers, gold has an
abiding-place to the greatest depth yet reached, and there
is no reason to show why it should not be quite as rich at
any workable depth. To the comparative absence of these
true fissures in N.S.W. may be attributed the palpable
difference in reef gold yields. Where in any part of
N.S.W. can be seen similar reefs ?
# * *
Pelton water-wheels are largely used in the
Yankee mines, because of the abundance of water avail-
able, and they might often be used to great advantage in
Australia. In N.S.W. any kind of water wheel is seldom
used, unless the water is right up against the mine, and
often not then. Boilers and engines we have seen fixed
beside a heavy, perpetual-running stream, the owners
being apparently blissfully ignorant of the existence of
such a thing as water-power. In America, companies
often combine for the purpose, and bring in enough power
for all. About £20,000 would have provided at Hillgrove,
water and electrical power sufficient for all the local
mines, and more than that amount would have, by this
time, been saved in firewood, which is always increasing
in cost, to say nothing of the cost and maintenance of
engines and boilers. As this is a slow country, perhaps
electrical power will be brought in when the best parts of
the mines are worked out.
* * *
A N.S.W. insolvent, the other day, stated,
amongst the causes of his bankruptcy—want of proper
management; making bad “deals”; fire; sickness;
gambling and drinking! Candid.
# * *
Few mining managers can resist the temptation
to “ pick the eyes out ot a mine.” On most fields there
are mines wherein enormous bodies of ore remain virtually
improspected because they will not pay (dividends ?) to
take them out. And yet in former days, in many of these
same claims, fabulously rich shoots of go and were found.
No thought of blending the ores occurred to these “ sky-
rocket ” bosses. An exception must be made of Bendigo’s
champion mine, the Garden Gulf}' United, when, under
the management of John Keam, whose aim it was to order
for the advantage ot shareholder and workman alike.
On a capital of £21,600 some 13 tons of gold were
won from the claim, over a million was distributed
in dividends, and nearly three quarters of a million
paid in wages, &c. Enormous bodies of the larger
lodes no more than paid expenses, yet all the ore
was taken out, simply by Ream’s judicious management.
There were veins in the mine described as "gold hanging
together by quartz,” and had Keam had these picked out
and crushed separately, be could have thrown into the
shade very often any yield of gold from any single crush-
ing ever reported from an Australian field ; but the life of
the mine would have been short and merry. The usual
fortnightly crushing was 636 tons, mostly of ore that
would not pay dividends when treated separately, but a
few tons of the rich shoot added brought the yield up to
the average—considerably over an ounce to the ton. And
this elasticity and the control exercised over the yields
were always'accentuated at Christmastide, when, with
the usual number of tons crushed, Keam generally
trebled the average yield of gold for the “Christmas
cake.” “ What would the rich vein crushed by itself give
a ton?” was once asked of an underground employ'd.
“Well, aa wuddn’t like to say, for fear thee’d
think ad’d be tellin’ ee lies?” was the reply, and no one
could answer the question with certainty, for the ore was
always mixed with the poorer stuff. The remark is
often made, “ It’s easy to manage a mine that is yielding
plenty of gold—yet, within a mile radius of this grand
mine are scores of others that in their halcyon days
turned out gold just as prodigally as the Garden Gully,
and in which there are untold lons of ore in sight, winch
will not pay to work. There may be rich shoots of gold
in them, but it won’t pay to seek them. The Hustler s
mines may be instanced, as well as many on the New
Chum and Garden Gully lines. Ream’s reign stands as a
model for all mining managers.
* # *
Dear Bulletin,—Re bank-profits out of lost
notes &0., a German at one time trading at a Murray
bend had much business every s-ason with a big camp of
blacks. Trading was mostly by way of barter: the blacks
brought skins, &0., and accepted rations, rum, tobacco,
blankets, &c., &c. Any balance due to a nig. was always
paid by cheque. Business over, the German would start
things with a couple of bolt les of rum, and leave. Inside
a few hours Tophet would reign. There was always a fire !
Out of over 100 cheques every season not a-third ever
turned up at the bank to the trader s debit. \\ est-
ward Ho. *
# * *
Rock-breakers and self-feeders are all very well
before batteries under certain conditions, but as a rule
they' are not recommended, and while all automatic
machinery works without judgment self-feeders will not
be extensively used. We have often seen them put in,
and then pitched on the scrap-heap. Experience has
shown that in nine cases out of ten the cost of hand-feed-
ing'is more than repaid by Ihe increased capacity. The
only qualification required by a battery-feeder is good
judgment, and of even that there is very little in N.S.W.
# * *
Directors in N.S.W. too often regard the
mining manager’s report as “copy” that requires sub-
editing. Generally it is only the good reports that are
published in N.S.W.
# # *
It is of no use Southern miners rushing to the
Coen and the Batavia. The prospects are shadowy, the
climate very bad, the country absolutely unsettled, and
the niggers aggressive.
It is rumoured, should the salaries of the
Queensland puisne judges be not increased, Justice
Real will leave the Bench and resume bar practice.
The Northumberland miners seem inclined
to mete out to Ninny Melville the treatment he
once accorded Parkes— i.e., the refusal of a hearing.
A Lithgow (N.S.W.) clergyman relates
that a woman who gave birth to twins in the
Jubilee year christened them Ju and Bilee re-
spectively.
A case for Lombroso. A healthy and
vigorous N.S.W. miner with an intelligent wife
has a large family in which the boys are all idiots,
while the girls have exceptional mental ability.
The man who arrived in Australia with
only “ sixpence in his pocket ” is getting as mono-
tonous as the man who, like John Pope, of Fanner
and Cos., dates his rise to glory from the picking
up of a pin. Alderman Meeks, of Sydney, is the
latest sixpenny hero. ...
Apathy seems to be the curse of the
N.S.VV. Labour-party. Deducting half-a-dozen
men of active minds, the balance are incapable of
prolonged mental effort, and, collapsing under the
strain, they leave the struggle with the National
Association to the born fighters, and fade away
into the domino rooms, or get behind a magazine
to race downstairs when the division bell rings. If
every member of the crowd, about 30, would speak
half an hour in straight terms every time a plank
was in danger the Government would be
“squeezed” oftener.
Gala, o/n H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-sfc., Sydney.
Register all. Fairest. Subscribers may witness.
10,000 at 5. Apply at once.


Registered
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Registered
ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
mm
GOLD MEDAL
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
OISCOVESE.EXS and REG-ISTBHED Toy
Herr
fay# p^fNTE£ To q { ; % % J
'% MRASMJSSEN Eaidit,
:'oAs«token OfCßATitiinr
, fimem n / 4*
;->>* ?i SEP. v» '
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWOEN TESTIMONY.
Statutory
IHfel
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows : —
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Hassiuussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALP ALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALE ALINE PILLS also cured ray wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. W hiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen.—I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed.— John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist. —Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen —I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated , both i n my case and in several of my family and acquai nt-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you. — E. Bukman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John E. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
ease of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. — A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off.
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.— J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.— P. II. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe,, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers ; I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.—George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
X'
HERR RASSMUSBEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATUEAL DOCTOR”
Awarded Gold Medal for hia
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the ‘‘Centennial History of
N. S- Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. Cd. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—Cs. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. Cd. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
.♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦mom***
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed to cure Costivencss and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted Is Cd
30., Os. and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes
posted, Bs., 65., and 235. Cd. ‘ ’
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
and wonderful
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off Posted
i. and Cs. ’
Herr Bassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
~ .1/1 Herr ®f s ™ u f s |n’ s . the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per!
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”— Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received To
NE\vs tant curus effected l) y llis remedies.”—Sydney Evening
Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected bv his
s®™f dl . e . s b -y thousands, lias already acquired an Australian.
Reputation, and lias secured the respect and gratitude of
]‘iZT US i 1 7 l r tlents wl) om his Remedies have restored to.
lle.uth and Happiness.’ Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“Wo have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
brat ( aUf o?i U ru I, T i ,r T. C ' d by /. lerr Rasmussen, the Cele-
uiated Danish Herbalist s remedies.”— Australian Star.
the 3!!| RaSS 'Tr Sen ia s°° wull and favourably known to-
TRnTH W Tr P,l) l , C u.° req I mre aiiy add >tional praise from.
ißUiii. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
HerbJuTi r m SS IV n T- n i’ wo i 1 ™ glad to as a Medicall
Ilcrba.ist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys.
the confidence, of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.”—Cooktown Courier (Q.).
p„ " Ifc mny . not b 0 . out °f Place to mention that Herr’
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years. —Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them. Mr
Rarnsdens case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors,
gave him up. A gentleman m this district, who has been
veaiTStVt 0 tl6 demo « Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several doctors” with no benefit what-
Remedies recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill and
long life to continue his useful mission in the
N.S W f etln ” ,mman,t y-"-Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which,
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a,
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of,
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from,
all parts of the world-are assured that he has saved a world I
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
: liad £' ven up all hope.”— The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.,
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands. He was
a warded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he wilt
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales. the Essenden and Elkmington Chronicle ant
North Melbourne Advertiser. —lst July, 1802.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist
Gaily lelegraph, Tasmania.
-Launceston
Testimonials.
TT „ Parliament House, Sydney,
, , en Rassmu sen, Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have ex pern need an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Ids have completely cured me of a terrible ease of Nervous
Gebility, winch was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaianteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, \ ancocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
pieyentative asramst disease of any kind. Ordinary course, 235. Od.
posted Special powerful double course, 435. Cd. posted. Boxes at
Os. and 12s. 1
847
Chief Head Depot:
■ G-JEOIRGrIE STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Hoad Depot :
150 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
rW” Ri me lies sent Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 BUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
tSF” Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
QMEEir
STEEE T y
BRISBANE.
IEST* Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALE A LINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED PROM THE ABOVEMENTIONED DEPOTS.
“ The KTatural Doctor.”
A Valuable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. Posted, Is.
May be obtained from all Depots.
xinportant.
Always send money by P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same. All correspondence
F rT. ~,S ,ITlol T erved - “ Tho Alfalino Medical Guide,” sent free on v
Hi <1 •Still) IJ »« ( 1 < l l . V i'll i Iw»
strictly confidential,
receipt of.addressed and


For Is. 3d. will be posted from The Bul-
letin Office, Sydney, to any Australasian address
a copy of The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” illustrated by Hop. and Phil. May ;
a copy of “Tales of the Convict System,’'by “Price
Waning.” The cheaper edition of “A Golden
Shanty ”is now out of print; a cloth-bound copy
will be mailed to any Australian address for 2s.
ANDREW USHER & CO.'S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co. ’s Labels and Trade Marks as under :—
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VATTED GLENTL1VET WHISKY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve
BLAKE A UK.OALL, Solicitors,
120 WlLLIAM-ST., MELB
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere,
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.udren’s sweet)
L YBu
\k
tfgn/Ji cJccrn.g/Uss-
Lancet.
*> Ji
A
St. John’s Works, London W.C.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND”RE-AST’S PATENT
INVICDRAJOb
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
‘ BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’90, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
*' SALON,” May, ’90: “ It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. 0. Kelly. L.E.C.P., Edin., says he he-
neves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving- the carriage and appearance of the
ngure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
, Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
naying our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England,
A brilliant complexion
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
VauisK like Magic
By a few applications of
Professor § won’s Complexion potion.
saPnm 11108 jwonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
olpir tv,° . u complexions. Not only will the Lotion
restni-o fv. ad that' s unsightly, but one bottle will
ness o- , , e k° the s °hest and purest maidenly loveli-
niont hi,- IX '''ral2 bottles sold in Paris and London
are Histh , ' Beware of worthless counterfeits—they
Set r h use . less and dangerous.
5s nil ca,l '*age paid and full directions on receipt of
os * *»d., Stamps or P.O.O.
Prof. DEVON,
20 Castlerbaqh Street (City), SYDNEY.
None better—G NUN Darlings.
A Darling that never deceives, G N U N.
At Newtown you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Freetraders smoke GNUN Darlings.
Young and old, short and tall, say 6NUN
Darlings the best of all.
At Paddington you can buy 6NUN Darlings.
GNUN Darlings take the cake.
A good disinfectant, GNUN Darlings.
The Coonamhle Independent.
A LIVE RADICAL NEWSPAPER
—AND—
GOOD UP ■(COUNTRY ADVERTISER.
CON MOOY and HUGH MACDONALD .. Proprietors,
Coonamhle, Castlbreagh River.
. MARSHALL’S
lONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
■MR
11
mm
sry
APPtli'
IMPROVES DIGESTION
GIVES NERVE POWER-
'
FOR
* 1 X am
to give ‘
INFANTS, CHILDREN k INVALIDS*
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
pleased to say that when every form of diet failed we were enabled
Benger’s Food and to sec our Children gain rapidly and p
THE MOST DELICIOUS,
NUTRITIVE & DIGESTIBLE.
Retail in Tins Is. Gd., 2s. Gd., {is. and 10s., of
Chemists, die., Everywhere.
Motterstiead & Co. (S. Paine & P.B. Benger)7 Exchange
Street, and Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Wholesale-Sydney: ELLIOTT BROS.
fd
.re li washe
1-Hem selves to make'the world
MHteri.SAPQLI O is hhe
elechic lijghl- oj- ho use-cleaning
Vs
THE OLD RUT
and old methods are not the easiest by far. Many people travel them
because they have not tried the better way. It is a relief from a sort
of slavery to break away from old-fashioned methods and adopt the
labor-saving and strength-sparing inventions of modern times. Get out
of old ruts and into new ways by using a cake of SAPOLIO in your
house-cleaning. J
SOLD BY GROCERS. CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
A.M., M.D., C.M., E.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.,
201 MACQUARIE STREET NORTH 201
(OPPOSITE PARLIAMENT HOUSE),
SYDNEY.
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over TWENTY YEARS in the STUDY and PRACTICE
—OF—
CHRONIC, NERVOUS
AND
SPECIAL DISEASES.
Of Menand Women in the leading Medical Schools and Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and
Vienna, and in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary,
Maternity and Lock Hospitals. No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical degrees
which can be compared with his. Such eminent qualifications, together with his recognised straight-
forward treatment, have naturally gained for him the reputation of being the
Only Legally Qualified Doctor
advertising in these colonies who combines with special knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily
be ascertained by applying to any leading paper in the colony. No diseases cause so much misery and
distress as those included in my speciality.
ALL MEN, YOUNG AND OLD,
Suffering from the results of early follies or excesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpitation,
singing and pains in the ears and head, specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened memory, pains in
the back and chest, varicocele, diseases of the bladder, kidneys or liver, rheumatism, impure blood,
weakening discharges, impaired vigour, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervousness, groundless-
fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in consulting him,
since he has, by long experience and thorough investigation of their nature, discovered the safest
reatment for their permanent cure. In many cases the Consultation Fee (by letter) of
£1 Is all that is Required.
Persons residing at a distance may be treated at their own homes, without any interruption to their
business, by giving a full and clear description of their symptoms, and the necessary medicines will be
forwarded to them. On receipt of 2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “ Male Generative Function
in Health and Disease,” or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
IMZmlg'osu Irrigation 0010m.37*,
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Within Forty (40) Miles of Sydney on Western Railway liine.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Rig'hts,
ITOW BEAD? FOB lUSPECTIOU SELECTIO^T.
& COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY—PENRITH TO MULGOA. “Ca
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa, or to Sydney Agents,
Hardie & Gorman, 133 3F*l-fc-fc Street, Sydney,
Thought and Prayer.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Were all the Sorrow floating on the breath
Churned into Charity by Life Sincere,
Hunger and Poverty might smile at Death,
And heavenly joys be entered into Here.
How long, O God, must Misery await
Vengeance on those who shut the Gates of Life !
Is Thy voice shouting from the walls —Too Late?
End all, 0 God, or end this hopeless strife !
Open the Gates, 0 God, open them wide,
Open men’s hearts—be on the Wretched’s side !
Sept. 24th, 1892.
TAS. BUSHMAN.
“Faustina,” in Sydney D.T., quotes a
few lines from Browning, that most people think
fearfully naughty.—
The sin I impute to each frustrate ghost
Is—the unlit lamp and the ungirt loin.
But it’s only the Browningesque way of referring
to the parable of “ The Foolish Virgins.”
S.M. Herald takes care to mention that
two banks have taken up a Melbourne Corpora-
tion loan “in equal moieties at par.” What is
wanted now is for two banks to take something
up in “unequal halves.” “Yes,” once said
Adelaide’s then Mayor (now Sir), E. T. Smith,
“ the Council pays one moiety, the Government
pays one moiety, and the insurance companies
pay the other moiety.” So moiety it be.
Dear Bulletin, —A simple remedy for
malarial fever may be of service to many of your
Gulf readers who do not reside near a chemist’s
shop :—Dig down on the tap-root of the quinine
bush, strip off bark, and boil slowly in billy of
water for half-an-hour, then strain liquor off into
brandy-bottle, add a couple of packets of salts,
and take a wine-glass full before meals. In the
absence of any other medicine this has been found
most effective.—Yours, Baktrax,
The history of the good deeds of Sir
Henry Parkes may be written in sand, but he has
taken steps to ensure some of his evil actions
teing embodied in stone —soft sandstone, fortu-
nately. The artist—we mean the carver—who
sculped - that is. to say, committed—the decora-
tions of the Sydney Post-office facade was further
commissioned to prepare statues to fill the niches
in the new Sydney Lands-office. Two of these,
namely alleged representations of Wentworth and
Sir John Robertson, have been fixed in their
places, and although they provide amusement to
the daily passers by it is nothing less than a
scandal that they should be allowed to remain
where they are. It is bad enough to have to pay
for such rubbish, but it is infinitely worse that the
expensive public buildings of an important city
should be permanently disfigured by such disgrace-
ful exhibitions.
lii most of the rural English parishes,
every inhabitant is required to pay a fee —varying
from 3s. 4d. to 10s.—to the Anglican'parson for
the privilege of dying; that is to say, the shepherd
drops on his surviving relatives for the money.
Then there is another fee for the right to be
buried. Deceased has to buy his grave and to pay
the reverend for the right to use it. There
is an extra fee on top of this for the privilege
of being interred in consecrated ground ;
in other words, deceased has to buy a piece
of consecration at so much per lb. There is
a fee for reading the burial-service; a special fee
of .£lO for the privilege of being buried in a brick
grave; a fee of ,£1 Is. for the privilege of using a
leaden coffin ; an extra fee for the right to erect a
monument, and some more fee for permission to
put a railing around the grave. And lastly, by
way of getting there like a centipede, with a
hundred feet at once, the gospel-grinder hires out
the graveyard for grazing purposes. Nobody can
make so much out of a corpse as the British
Established parson.
The best Australian books to send to
friends abroad are The Bulletin’s “History of
Botany Bay,” illustrated by Livingston Hopkins
and Phil. May—post-free to any Australian
address for Is. 3d. in stamps: and “A Golden
Shanty,” tales and sketches in prose and verse
from The Bulletin—post-free to any Australian
address for Is. 3d. in stamps; and “Tales of the
Australian Convict System,’’from The Bulletin,
by “ Price Warung”—post-free to any Australian
address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Queensland pur-
chasers supplied by J. H. Thompson, bookseller,
George-street, Brisbane.
Your fortune, send at once for tickets to
“Gala,” c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street,
Sydney. Dec. 3rd, 10,000 at 5 each. Register.
Sam. stood six foot three in each stocking,
And drank like a fish all the day ;
His passion for liquor was shocking,
Till Death came and biffed him away.
They knew there was only one pleasure
That bibulous Sammy held dear—
So, carefully taking his measure,
They brought him a very long bier.


GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
oils,C6i-OURS 4 Paints.
wallpapers frpm
529 George
1 Br/ckf/eld Hill.
f
'•r?r
rf:
mi
1
%
as*
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
I
Notv ready, post free Is Gd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA. Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
GNUN Darlings burn a snow-white ash.
Luxury for the million, G N U N Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Footballers ! Smoke 6NUN Darlings.
A home comfort—G NU IS Darlings.
A well-invested 3d.—a 6NUN Darling.
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well* to
Feel Well —Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOUR.
On the block, smoke 6NUN Darlings.
S3T CAN THIS BE TRUE?
A
S
K
F
0
R
A
N
D
1
N
MACKs
D Q U B LE - ..
s<
T <
Oi
N(
Hi
A'
V
I i
N 1
G'
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss, Bctrax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS : The Iron from scorching or sticking.
PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES : Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sold hy all Grocers and Storekeepers.
YES! TRY IT AND SEE! TN
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
I € oMI
SdHMS
m
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay—G NUN Darlings.
In the gloaming with my 6NUN Darling.
Wonderful value—four GN U N Darlings Is,
df
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and sec Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi/ the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <f- Blackwell, London, §c., §c.‘ f
and by Grocers and Oilmen thrcujhont the World.
♦
♦
PUREST.
SAFE
BEST.
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
«An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.’’-Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
t HE
BliO
-<*OA/00
for ITCHING;
ROUOHNESS& SKIN IRf
For SUNBURN, iNSI'IGT XUTUS,
PUKJJvIjY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes,
m
Nm
m
m
A SANITAKY, SOU till MS ItOSB-
DUSTING POWDl'll!.
In Three Sizes -in Pink, White and Cream TinW.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THI WORLD.
WORTH KNOWING
“ Its lame, like gold, the more ’tis tried, _
The more shall its intrinsic worth proclaim!
WORLD WIDE
aOIiDEN SPECIFIC’
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC”
The celebrated and only safe, sure and
speedy ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
The SYSTEM ONCE IMPHBG-
NATED BY THIS REMEDY THE
USE OF ALCOHOL MUST CEASE,
MaT THOUSANDS PROVE IT. -pj
Tho “Golden Specific” neutralises the effect of
a'cohol and promptly corrects and stays its use. It
supplies the place of the accustomed liquor and
prevents that absolute physical and moral prostration
which so frequently follows the sudden discontinuance
of stimulating drinks. Prepared in both powder
ami 1 ■«■■■■<! form according to the formula of Dr.
Haines Hundreds* in the colonies have
the “OohlfH Specific ” in use and testify
to its complete Efficacy and success. Head the scores
of Testimonials received by ns daily from all parts.
TO THE DIPSOMANIAC.
THe “«oWk«4» Specific” is a positive and certain
aktidote to, drink and cures tho worst cases.
TAKE IT IN TIME. SEND FOR OUR BOOK.
ScieNTia OmhiaViNCI 1-
Golden
ANTI
p^s>;[
DRINK
LIRE
V-
URE
SUANO
6^
(T„
LCOHOI-
Siffl
VERSUS
he Demon Drink.
The acknowledg'd! cure for
Drunkenness
or the liquor habit, Inehriacy and alcoholism
(in any form). Can l»e given secretly or otner
wise. Placed in a Cup of Tea or Coffee, or in food, i s
presence cannot be noticed. Warranted periecty
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so
quietly and with such certainty that the paw™
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware i
complete reform is effected. An overdose •»
harmless and it «locs not impali »•
injure tltc liciiltli iw Jiny way*
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE.
Write for book of particulars and colonial tc-tmio
Dials, sent post free on rece pt ot stamp Jieuure uj
Imitations. We have no Ayen's.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and ourorly Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC 00.,
145 and 147 COLLINS STREET,
MELDOUPvNE, VIC. _
READ THIS 11 1
Indisputable Endorse-
ment.
Auckland Star, May 7, 1892.
MOTHER ALBERT’S REMEDIES.
In these days of patent medicines it requires
that certificates of excellence should be signed by
the names of persons of standing in the com-
munity. The herbal remedies put up by the Rev.
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert, of Jerusalem,
Wanganui River, have already been highly spoken
of, and elsewhere will be seen an advertisement
which publishes in full the testimony of such
eminent personages as Lord Onslow, Bishop
Grimes, of Christchurch, Bishop Redwood, of
Wellington, and, passing from the pulpit to the
stage, Mr. Walter Bentley. The latter acknow-
ledges the wonderful result to his voice from using
“Marupa.” Another preparation designated
“Karana ” is said to be quite equal to combating
most of the ills of life, and restores a broken-down
constitution. It is a vegetable tonic, pleasant to
take, and by no means hurtful in its action.
These valuable medicines are now being put up by
Messrs Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.
Takaka News, June 23, 1892,
MOTHER MARY JOSEPH ALBERT’S
REMEDIES.
The efficacy of the New Zealand herbal remedies
prepared by the Maoris is too well known by all
old settlers to need comment, and the wonderful
medicinal properties of several native shrubs have
been testified to by many in our midst. The
experience of a long life spent among the natives
in the North Island has induced a'lady belonging
to a Religious Order of the Catholic Church to
make known to the public the several prepara-
tions, the marvellous effects of which she has
observed during her sojourn amongst the natives.
The testimonials which will be found in another
column, are from those who, having derived great
benefit from the remedies, desire to testify to their
efficacy. When we find a Governor, a Bishop,
and a distinguished actor, unite in recommending
these preparations, it may be safely assumed that
it is because they deserve it. Full particulars of
the recently-established agency for this district
will be found elsewhere.
Evening Post, June 21, 1892.
From private letters received from Mr. Orlando
R. Kempthorne, who, as we stated some few
weeks ago, was proceeding to Sydney and Mel-
bourne to introduce the Aubert remedies there,
we leArn that he has been most successful in
gettirlg the bulk goods that he took to Sydney put
up smartly, and disposed of in a very short time.
He has ordered more to be forwarded at once, as
be has none left to take to Melbourne. He states
that he has every reason to hope that his tour will
prove a gigantic success. The New South Wales
papers congratulate Mr. Kempthorne on having
introduced into their colony a medicine that has
become so widely known and so warmly appre-
ciated in New Zealand.
Wairarapa Daily, June 6, 1892,
Lnsqlicited testimony still continues to pour in
regarding the wonderful efficacy of Mother Mary
Joseph Aubert’s remedies. The marvellous cures
wrought upon persons well nigh at death’s door*
have caused a profound sensation, and on many
thousand tongues are words of gratitude and
blessing for the good lady who has devoted hef
life to the alleviation in some measure of the
world’s suffering.
Otago Daily Times, June 28, 1892.
Mr. O. R. Kempthorne, of the New Zealand
Drug Company, recently visited Sydney to in-
troduce there the Rev. Mother Mary J. Aubert’s
remedies, made entirely from New Zealand herbs
and plants, which have met with so much favour
in this colony. He was most successful, the fame
of the curative properties of the remedies having
preceded their arrival, and it is satisfactory to
find that a new item has been added to our list of
exports, which it is expected will soon make its
way into the old country, where the remedies
have one warm friend in Lord Onslow.
New Zealand Standard, June 17, 1892.
The Aubert Remedies.—A new advertisement
from Messrs Kempthorne, Prosser and Co., in
reference to the above, appears in another column.
These remedies are daily becoming more famous
for their efficacy in the treatment of all sorts of
ailments, so much so that increased facilities have
had to be provided by the manufacturer for their
production. Mr. George Foster is the local agent.
Hawkes Bay Herald, July 2, 1892.
Mr. Kempthorne, of the firm of Kempthorne,
and Prosser, has lately been on a visit to Sydney
in connection with Mother Mary Joseph Aubert’s
remedies, and it appears that he has had wonder-
ful success there, the remedies having come into
great favour in New South Wales.
A Maoriland functionary, who owns one
ten-pound share in a Christchurch paper, is said
to have paid <£looo for it just before last election.
A Parramatta (N.S.W.) firm has invented
a “flying-fox scarer ” —a machine to be fixed up
among fruit-trees to scare off the flying-fox pest.
It is a revolving bull’s-eye lantern that is wound
up overnight and keeps going till morning, with
the cheerful accompaniment of banging a gong
“ with a noise as loud as the braying of a donkey,”
every two minutes.
“Justice Windeyer,” says Melbourne
Standard, “ wept like a child, as he delivered
sentence ” on M'Namara and Abigail.—
The tears flow free for sharpers gaoled,
Upon the floor they slop.
A paradox : A mob of hoys
He hangs without a drop.
Melbourne Public Library authorities are
very exigent of public morals. They have a
splendid edition of Voltaire, in 70 vols., but “La
Pucelle ” is withdrawn from the shelves, and even
Hawthorne’s “ Scarlet Letter ” has met with the
same expurgation from the collected edition of his
works.
At a little drought-stricken W.Q. town-
ship there is but one pub., kept by a woman whose
Imsband manages a big station close by. Anybody
with a swollen red nose, pimpled countenance,
and two shaky hands can get a job at that station,
but unless a man has the indubitable signs of hard
and continuous drinking written on his counten-
ance he has no show. Almost all the cheques that
are paid on the station are drunk at the pub., and
everybody who has drunk a big cheque at the pub.
is sure of a job at the station, so a ted-nosed pro-
cession wanders back and forward between the
two places without ceasing, and great are the
profits that ensue.
Twas in the early days, and the station
was young. A neighbouring super, rode up as the
boss came out of the hut with a bucket, knives
and a rifle. Super. : “Good day! Going to
kill?’ Boss: “Good day! Yes.” Super.;
“ I’ll hobble my horse and lend you a hand.”
Boss: “All right.” Super, follows down to the
yard and sees boss waiting for a roan bullock to
look at him. Super. ; “Which are you going to
shoot?” Boss: “The roan.” Super.: “That be
d—d for a yarn ! He’s mine.” “ Boss : “Yours ?”
Super.: “Yes, look at his brand.” Boss: “I
really beg your pardon, I thought it was Jobson’s ”
—his next-door neighbour.
A Reefton (M.L.) correspondent writes; —
Just a few lines to know if you could give me any
information concerning the name of the young man who
met his death travelling with a team in the N.S.W.
western district. I read the account given in your paper,
dated Aug. 27th, and much desire to know the town it
happened in. A young friend wrote, two months ago,
telling me he was coming with a team to Sydney, there-
fore I am very anxious.
The par in question concerned a young man, name
unknown, who was found with both legs crushed
beneath a broken-down dray, on a western road,
and died during the process of atnputatiom The
Bulletin cannot, at the present moment, locate
the occurrence. Possibly sotne Western header cat!
furnish our correspondent with names and exact
date.
Count Graminont left London in a hurry,
and was followed to Dover by the brothers
Hamilton, who asked, “Haven’t you forgotten
something?” Grammont: “Oh, I beg pardon!
I forgot to marry your sister.”
“ Ouida ” makes a horse win two Derbies
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the clay.
Cairns (N.Q.) recently passed the follow-
ing account: “To berryin Karrion—one kat one
got, one got, one dog— £l.”


Medical.
DbSPEER
Assisted by Dr. ELMSLIE (
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., ETC.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
3E».0. Box 820.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 16 years to the
special study of OHRONIO, NERVOUS, SKIN and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies ; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., theOHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Honrs s 10 to 13 aan.; 3to 4 and
7 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HIED TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
Nervous Debility.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUS-
NESS and SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion,
for his many years of practice with this dreadful disease
enables him to remove all traces of it, and to return the
victims to full VIGOR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
In all oases of
PRIVATE DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
VARICOCELE consult Dr. SPEER.
SEXUAJ. EXHAUSTION AND WEAKNESS consult Dr.
SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
1. AMERICAN “ VIGOUR ” PILLS, for Nervous
Debility, Lost Vitality, Sexual Weakness, Errors, &c.,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for Discharges,
Contagious Sores and Blood Diseases, 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. FEMALE ” PILLS, for Irregularities and Obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper.
Professor paul.
Health, Strength and Manhood Restored!
Cure for all. A thorough Systematic and Scientific Cure
for £l. Sent to any address. Three months' supply.
New Life & Energy
<£l
Vitality Restored
S&rvous, Mental and Physical Debility, Lost Manhood,
Rheumatism, Gout,‘Chronic and Wasting Diseases, the
result of youthful indiscretions, etc., permanently cured.
Time-honoured and reliable remedy. Used by eminent
men throughout the world with success. Personally, I
have cured thousands. Where it fails cure is hopeless !
Acknowledged great Nerve and Brain Tonic—one trial will
suffice. Sample Box (month’s supply), 7/6. £l-note or
stamps. Register letters. Prof. PAUL, Specialist,
Box 1081 G.P.0., SYDNEY. Late Acting-Chief
Consulting Physician to the Australian Medical and
Surgical Infirmary. Twenty Years’ experience. Hun-
dreds of references. Interviews arranged. Advice and
instructions free.
Business Announcement.
df
/#
whisky
m
mmm!mi
M/i
mSmimMi
m
-~* —a=Lrf^t«
•-ilf..
is
Best ©« Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt’s Brewing Si Wine Si Spirit Co., Limited.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PRICE Is
In Stamps,
d
CKX
.A.. M. 8.,
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
Dr. Kelly’s reputation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, to be appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
Unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows: —That the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission ; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate with his fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
of his past folly.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
Am 1 subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Feeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Feeling During the Day, Pains in the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Fits,
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small pamphlet but a
LARGE BOOKCONTAININGMANYPAGESofPRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY . This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
for JBl Is, Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, &c., &c., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
Dr, W. H. Kelly, who is a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
Monday ,
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday ~
Saturday.,
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m,
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
~ 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m,
ADDRESS— w . H. KELLY,
112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
N.B.—DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
The only Remedy for Indigestion.
*3
s 0
GEST'Ott
FOR
Price : 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Take no Substitute.
f
SSgg?
-&BEST
®@/VINS
machine
W9RLO
|H*
tH e
Before purchasing any other
sexd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
DIP
&
HOME
JMotinsfon&Co-,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“Tales oftHe Convict System.”
Medical. _
Dr. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed, t)r.
Richards will in future he pleased to welcome hi*
friends and patients, during his consulting hour*,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f < l
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
ipsidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
•’‘SKSTTISBm CLOia-BOTOD
LOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private os
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


Secure an overdraft with a GNUN Darling
cigar.
Sweet as honey. Mild as milk. G N U N
Darlings.
PEMELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
“August
Flower”
For Dyspepsia.
A. Bellanger, Propr., Stove Foun-
dry, Montagny, Quebec, writes: “I
have used August Flower for Dys-
pepsia. It gave me great relief, I
recommend it to all Dyspeptics as a
very good remedy.”
Ed. Bergeron, General Dealer,
Lauzon, Eevis, Quebec, writes: “I
have used August Flower with the
best possible results for Dyspepsia.”
C. A, Barrington, Engineer and
General Smith, Sydney, Australia,
writes: ‘ ‘August Flower has effected
a complete cure in my case. It act-
ed like a miracle.”
Geo. Gates, Corinth, Miss.,writes:
“ I consider your August Flower the
best remedy in the world for Dys-
pepsia. I was almost dead with
that disease, but used several bottles
of August Flower, and now con-
sider myself a well man. I sincerely
recommend this medicine to suffer-
ing humanity the world over.” ®
G. G. GREEN, Sole Manufacturer,
Woodbury, New Jersey, U. S. A.
Watches, Diamonas, Jewellery, Sil ve r-p late.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT FEOM T H IE MAHTJE’ACTTJE.EBS TO THE! PUBLIC.
UNEQUALLED FOR VALUE, UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY, and at PRICES IN MANY INSTANCES NEARLY ONE-HALF THAT CHARGED ELSEWHERE.
IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED OUT BY TO
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent, of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Wonderful Goods at Freetrade Prices
STEWART DAW2OH & CO.’S
WORLD-FAMED
LIVERPOOL ENGLISH LEVERS,
50,000 TESTIMONIALS 50,000
From wearers in all parts .of the world.
FREETRADE
PRICES.
Bewate Of Imitations and worthless foreign watche 8
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
OQ S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
° LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
no 1 AS.—S. D. and CO’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
3JO IO HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£6 6s. Beware of imitations.
■PA 1 AS.-S. D - and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
ING LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection. Cheap
at £7.
i AS.-S. D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
1 HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
1 AS.—S. D. and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
1U LISH HUNTING LEVER, extraordinary
value.
-PA 1 nS--S. t>. and CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
S/D LU Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear; without equal; cheap at £lO.
-Pi A —S. 1). and tiO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
cAVLO. Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER,
Breguet Spring, finest Compensation Balance, as sold in
the best shops in London front £l5 to £2O; sepn years
guaranteed.
-Pi 1 1 AS.— S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
LI. 1J and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English. The best Sporting Watch in the
World. Matchless value.
nS.—S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £ll2s. Cd (Ladies’ and Gent’s).
1 A®- - D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
cL/U XU Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable, and of guaranteed quality.
Worth £lO.
1 AS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
tAp/o xu an( j qo/ 8 Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Extra value.
-PlO 1 n s -> £l2 10s -> £ l5 10s -. t 0 £25.—S. D. and
cWXU xu co.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals at the
prices named.
X?A K AND PtO —S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
cJ-z-xu cL/UU. KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking. After a period of six months’ adjustment
these watches are sent to the Government Observatory
Test Office at Kew, London, where they undergo a six
weeks’ test in every position, heat and cold, after w'hich a
certificate is issued stating the number of points taken.
Note that none of ours are allowed to pass under A 75, the
highest possible being AlOO. The B and 0 Classes are of
much less value. A 75 ensures a rate not exceeding five
seconds’ variation in one year.
Any watch in the above List sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee on receipt of remittance.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches—birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at Cs. Cd., Bs. Cd. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by' our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment and other designs a special variety. All at Free-
trade prices.
STEWART DAWSON anti CO.’s Magnificent Assort'
merit of Ladies’ inexpensive 15 carat Gem Dress Rings, in
new designs, from 255. to 605., affords the best means for
selection at genuine Freetrade Prices ever placed before
the public. Our stock of 18 carat Wedding and Keeper
Rings is the largest and best value in Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most reoherchO display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets, Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STIJWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entree Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style, Salad, Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods arc alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
fid. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purses Porleraonnaies, Card
Cases, Pitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &0., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
WITH THE ADDITIONAL SPACE
At our disposal, we have now added the largest stock of
these to be found on the Australian continent, and we
ask every reader to compare ours with the prices you have
been paying. Notwithstanding the duty of 15 per cent,
recently put on by the Government, the following will be
found from 121- to 40 per cent, lower than Waltham
Watches have ever been sold in Sydney;—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 C
Ditto ditto, good balance 2 12 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, f-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels .. 4 4 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance,
patent regulator 5 10 0
Ladies’Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 710 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 12 10 0
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham's English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver cases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S GOLD ALBERTS.—Note.-The above
is our great speciality, and the variety, character and
value of our slock have no equal in the whole of Austra-
lasia. Our selection of appendages, consisting of Seals,
Lockets, Compasses, Charms, Freemasons’
&c., should be seen by every intending buyer.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets,
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition.
NOTE.—Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip,
tion by the best WORKMEN.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Watch and Jewellery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY ; Melbourne and Auckland,
The Bookmaker’s Father.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A tear stood on the nether lid of Barney Boko’s
eye;
He spake a string of vulgar words that terminate
in “ y ” ;
His frame with strange emotion shook, he scratched
his level head—
“ If I’m not telling Bible truth,” quoth Barney,
“ strike me dead !
“ I left my ’ome in sixty-nine, and come out here’
I did,
I wasn’t then a something man, nor yet a some-
thing kid,
But in between the something two, a bland, old-
fashioned youth,
What cut his native land before he cut his wisdom
tooth.
“ I didn’t ask my father for his blessing when I
went —
We ’ad a row and didn’t waste no bloomin’ senti-
ment ;
I left him in his korfee-shop, the place where I
was born,
And mother couldn’t kiss me, ’cos, poor woman !
she was gorn.
“ ‘Get out o’ this, ungrateful swine !” I heard the
old ’un say,
As, lumbered with my carpet-bag, I tore myself
away;
‘Don’t let me see your face no more.’ Sez I,
‘You needn’t fear ’
A h’egg was father’s last remark to fall upon my
ear.
“ And so I took my passage in the steerage, with
the stuff
I’d been and scraped together—it was barely just
enough ;
My word ! it was a voyidge ; for a fortnight I was
sick —
And I landed here in Melbourne with a shilling in
my ‘ kick. ’
“ Life wasn’t beer ah’ skittles just at first; I had
to shift
For a year on next to nothing ’fore I ever got a
lift ;
Then I knocked about at racing (which I tumbled
was the game)
Till I started with a satchel, and a ’undred to my
name.
“ It was easy graft in them times ; one ’ad only got
to lay
Harf the something price the public want a-tempt-
ing with to-day;
When ’Ari-co£, Lord love ’im ! won the Cup I felt
a prince—
That night I bought a buggy, and I’ve drove one
ever since.
“ Then I settled down and married, and, let me
win or lose,
I always had the sense to play for safety with the
‘ booze.’
Good fortune spoils some blokes, but ever since I
first began
To hold the stuff, I’ve tried to be the something
gentleman.
“ And what about my father? Well, I’d written
him a line,
But never got no letter in acknowledgment of
mine;
And Mossy, when in Ingland, couldn’t rout ’im
out, or drop
On anyone who’d seen ’im, for he’d left thekorfee-
shop.
“ A father is a father, and, with children of my
own,
I orfen thought about ’im when I found myself
alone.
And wished we’d parted friendly, as a son an’
father should —
For I ain’t a something image, with a blanky soul
of ivood.
“ ’S’help me Bob! I’m thankful that we met
again at last.
He come upon me sudden, like a mem’ry of the
past.
The way in which it ’appened was the rummest
kind of chance—
Some writer ought to take it for the plot of some
romance.
“Two months ago, at Randwick, a thin, white-
’eaded chap
Comes up as I was bettin’ on the Final Handicap,
And sez—‘What price The Ripper?’ in a voice
quite sorft and sad—
I was just about to lay ’im, when I sor it was my
dad.
“lories, ‘Wot! don’t yer know me—don’t yer
know yer blanky son ?’
’E didn't, he was dazed like, and he wanted ten
to one.
All at once he shouted ‘ Barney !’ and began to
shake an’ sniff,
Well, I wouldn’t ’ ave my father, so I whispered,
‘ Ripper’s stiff.’
“ There was lots of fellers round us, so I looked in
father’s face,
And said, ‘ Just wait a minit, till we’ve polished
orf this race;
But if of that there sov-er-eign you’re anxious to
get rid,
The Gift is on the job —you ’ave a ‘pony’, to a
‘ quid.’
“He stood aside and waited while I did a Ijt of
biz.,
Then we walked away together, with my’and a-
gripping his,
To see the ’orses finish, as we stood against the
rail—
‘Good Gord ! ’ sez I to father, ‘you are orful
something pale!’
“ The Gift come in a length ahead, and father
give a cry—
A something shriek that rent the air and split the
blanky sky;
He fell down flat upon the grass, and murmured,
‘ Bless you, boy ! ’
Before he drew one garsplng breath, and died of
dashy joy.
“ At first the shock seemed bloomin’ rough and
sent me nearly wild,
But soon it cheered me up to think we’d both been
reconciled.
A father’s blessin’ —fools may laugh, but men don’t
mind their sneers—
Is something, when you haven’t met for two and
twenty years.
“ I’d acted Zionest, that’s the point, and didn’t try
to best
The poor old chap, who might have dropped his
sugar, like the rest.
But if I’d let him back a horse I knew was cronk
and lame,
Why, he’d ’ave dammed me up and down, and
perished just the same.
“The doctor sent him out, I found, because his
’ealth was bad;
His ’eart was weak, and arf a lung was all the old
’un ’ad.
He’d fainted orf the night before while playin’
penny Nap.,
His race was finished when they’d run the Final
Handicap.
“ A second wife she collared all the stuff he ’ad to
leave.
And ’urried back to Ingland, larfin’, maybe, in
her sleeve.
For I paid to get 'im buried, and I bought a stone,
that’s more,
With the six-and-twenty sov’reigns that he didn’t
live to drore.”
A tear dropped from the nether lid of Barney’s
bloodshot eye,
He made a noise that sounded like an alligator’s
sigh.
And solemnly he raised his hat from off his level
head—
“lf I’m not telling Bible truth,” quoth Barney,
“ strike me dead !”
EDMUND FISHER.
Melbourne.
* Written on the night of Glenloth’s Cup.
The X.Y.Z. Cos. own some half-dozen
stations in Southern Queensland. A vacancy
occurring in the management of Crow Creek,
young M'Gingan rode over to Humpabluey and
applied to Grindem, tire general manager, for the
billet. “Well, Mr. M'Gingan,” said Grindem,
“I intend cutting down all my managers’
salaries. The Co.’s affairs have been conducted
on too expensive a scale. In future, managers
will have to do their own clerical work, and their
book-keeper’s services may be dispensed with.
Work which has been paid for at the rate of .£SOO
a year will have to be done at ,£200.” To whom
M'Gingan, smilingly: “Then the auditors will
overhaul the station-books, find the manager’s
work has been done quite as satisfactorily as in
the old days of high salaries ; and an immediate
sequel will be a reduction in the general manager’s
salary. Work, for which he is paid £IIOOO a year,
now may be done just as well for <£soo. What
do you think, Mr. Grindem?” You could have
heard an elephant drop, and then Grindem said :
“Have a whisky, M'Gingan.” MGingan has
the management of Crow Creek, and all the
salaries are the same as heretofore.
Says Miss Frances Holden in a contem-
porary : —
Cancer is due—to mention some salient and suggestive
particulars—to tough, ill-cooked meats; waxy, ill-cooked
potatoes ; over-drawn, semi-poisonous tea ; greasy, fried
foods ; hot soda cakes, sodden or otherwise ; new bread of
any sort, and other such-like abominations.
Miss Holden evidently knows more than anyone
else in the world about cancer.
Col. Hobbs (S.M. Herald) writes deny-
ing the story of a recent correspondent that the
thighbones of a horse had been palmed off upon
him as the remains of Cunabo-Gunnerah, the
aboriginal terror of the Namoi, which he scouts as
something not calculated to deceive a 10-year-old
child. Says the Colonel: “The bone of a two-
legged ass might raise complications, as the
difference between the bone-structure of an animal
having verticle (sic!) and one having horizontal
(why not “horizontle,” Colonel?) movement would
not be so readily seen.” The Colonel says that
Dr. Haynes exhibited the whole of the aborigine’s
bones, with the exception of a few ribs, one foot
and a couple of joints of the vertebrae; and that
Dr. Haynes and he reconstructed the whole
skeleton in the former’s surgery. The Colonel
claims to have verified his “notes” among the
blacks themselves. Further, the Colonel denies
having recently lectured in Cooktown, N.Q.,
advocating slavery, saying:—“I delivered a
charity ‘talk,’ and defended the Southern slave-
owners from the charge of general cruelty, but
stated that they would not have the slaves again.
I did not even justify slavery.”


iljlimi'irjp
sin iv>!
M UIS
mwt
: .HIM
»
H t
OF
/
Ose
I! 1 "'!
in.
II I
!!!!!!!
Illifi.
Until!
SUIFHUR
df
m
m
BLOOD.
Pure blood is a life-long delight. It is health—real good health and
Strength—free from pimples, spots, sores and aches.
Have pure blood by taking Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally, and use
a really good modern soap —Frazer’s Sulphur Soap—externally, and you
ensure a clear skin and a good complexion.
It is a mistake to suppose that a good skin or a clear complexion can be
secured by Soap alone. It cannot. A pure Soap—Frazer’s Sulphur Soap
is an invaluable aid to personal beauty, but the first essential is pure blood.
This must never be forgotten. If we can’t have the blood quite pure, then
we must get it as pure as we can.
A man wants a clear skin and a wholesome complexion, in profession or
business. Else if he be blotchy, pimply, or disfigured, other men fight shy
of dealing with him. Let the man take Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally
and use Frazer’s Sulphur Soap externally.
A woman needs a good complexion else her happiness is decreased, and
her charm to the other sex much lessened. Let the woman take Frazer’s
Sulphur Tablets internally and use Frazer’s Sulphur Soap externally.
A child for its health’s sake needs a rosy skin, free from eruptive
blemish, and a blood free from the taint of fever and infectious germs. Let
the child take Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally and use Frazer’s Sulphur
Soap externally.
Frazer’s'Sulphur Tablets used internally ensures good blood—pure blood
that holds disease at bay and gives health.
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap renders the skin soft, supple and smooth, neither
drying the oils of the skin, nor shrivelling the nails, nor splitting the hairs.
It is a milled soap, contains extra balm, and is free from excess of alkali or
fat. It is simple and truly the best of all Soaps, and contains Oil of
Eucalyptus.
Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets are put up in 1/6 packets (post free 1/8 );
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap, in Green Boxes, price 9d. (Post free, lid.) Three
packets, post free, 2/6.
Frazer’s productions are sold by, or may be ordered of, all chemists and
medicine vendors at home or in any part of the world. Sole Proprietors,
Frazer’s Tablets, Ltd., 11, Ludgate Square, London, E.C.
TEST THEM
FREE OF CHARGE
Write for samples of “ Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets, naming Bulletin, and they will be
Bent you gratis and post free. “Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets” are the pleasantest and most
efficacious of all Spring medicines. They are invaluable in the treatment of all Blood and
Skin Diseases, Eruptions, Eczema, Ac. They are specially indicated for children, being
alike safe, pleasant, and efficacious. As a remedy for women’s complaints they are
unequalled. They are preventive of Chills, Colds, Rheumatism, and Constipation, and are
of great service in the treatment of these complaints. They are the best of all blood
purifiers, and ward off influenza and infectious complaints.
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap contains also a proportion of Eucalyptus, and is a valuable
emollient and antiseptic soap.
Those who desire a good skin and complexion, clear, healthy, and free from blemish,
are specially recommended to use “Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets ” internally, and “ Frazer’s
Sulphur Soap ” externally. The last named is the purest of all soaps, and absolutely the
best. It leaves the skin soft and smooth, and neither dries the nails nor hair. It is free
from excess of alkali or fat, and contains extra soft cream, which is especially soothing and
beneficial to the skin.
“Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets” are put up in 1/6 packets (post free, 1/8); “Frazer’s
Sulphur Soap,” in green boxes, price 9d. (Post free, lid.) Three packets, post free, 2/6.
Frazer’s productions are sold by, or may be ordered of, all Chemists and Medicine
Vendors at home or in any part of the world. Sole Proprietors, Frazer’s Tablets, Ltd.,
11, Ludgate Square, London, E.C.
Australian Depots
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
293 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


&
W!
©f
For the
All throat and lung diseases; Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral is the best known remedy. When the,
bronchial tubes are sore and obstructed with
phlegm, this medicine is invaluable, it is an
anodyne expectoraiit, and, in cases of deep
seated consumption, it cures the coughing
soothes and heals the lacerated tissues, and f
Induces refreshing sleep. A few doses uvo usu ?
ally sufficient to afford speedy relief in oases of
Colds and Coughs
it is also as .speedily efficacious, and prompt
to allay the distressing symptoms of asthma,
bronchitis, sore, throat, hoarseness, croup, and
whooping hough, aiid, In thousands of fami-
lies, is the only Cure used, It,is the host emer-
gency medicine and should always be at hand.
No household in which, there are young chil-
dren, can afford to be tvithout
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
PREPARED Ef
Or. J. 0. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
BROOME’SIMUSTC
d
.POST
k frcell
Full Music Size ami Guaranteed Correct.
or,
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
41], Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 ih B.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, ill B. 578
567. Diver in B flat; 568. Diver* in B;
569. Maggie Murphy's Home.
555. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in 0;
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 in B,
618. Remember ndw thy Creator;
619 Consider the Lilies;
PIANOFORTES.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty);
564. American Lancers (pop, melodies
571. March of the Goblins Bide, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. The Country Wedding Barn Dance
THE HOLBOBN MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 1845] trade supplied. [Est. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
s MaigUjckcJid
.l<VJNl£i f ,M ‘
LOHS E’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are tlje most fashionable inflje world.
Sold by all tyiglj class'Perfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
MILK
fd
f
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
M'ALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
lll fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
Ifl valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any cli mate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.G.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR
A soothing, cooling, emollient milk for the
skin. It prevents and removes freckles, tan,
sunburn, redness and roughness of the skin,
soothes and heals stings of insects, eczema,
jmickly heat, and all irritations, produces soft
fair skin and a lovely delicate complexion. It
is warranted free from any lead or mineral
ingredients, and is perfectly harmless to the most
■delicate skin. Bottles‘2s. 3d, and 4s. Gd. Ask for
Rowlands’ Kalydoe, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is a pure and
scientifically prepared tooth powder; it whitens
the teeth, prevents decay and sweetens the
hreath.
Protectionists smoke G N IT N Darlings.
GNUN Darlings bear a thin red band.
A good tip—smoke GNUN Darling cigars.
Aids to digestion—G NUN Darling cigars.
Shah of Persia smokes G N U N Darlings.
Financial worry soothed smoke GNXT N
Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Most Delicious Sauce in the World.
: sis
m Ckcj
[kshirel
fc Jiy. Al
u BA
EEOS!.
. v ;;
Silly Delicious
WITH
CHOPS,
STEAKS,
FISH, &c.
MAKES COLD MEAT A LUXURY.
BLENDS ADMIRABLY WITH ALL GrRAYIES.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Sold Everywhere.
Wholesale: TILLOCK & CO.. KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors: COODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
Positively the Se s t Hair- Dressing
For Strengthening, Beautifying and Preserving the Hair.
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer,
Used by thousands daily. Its Superiority is Unsurpassed,
Edwards’ ‘ HARLEMTE ’
d
Positively Forces
Luxuriant Hair*
Whiskers
AND
Moustachios
To grow heavily in a few
weeks, without injury to the
skin, and no matter at
what age.
fd
AFTER USE. AFTER USE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
from whatever Cause arising. As a producer of WHISKERS and MOUSTACHIOS it has never been equalled.
AS A CURER OP
Weak Sc Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour never fails.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly Harmless and Devoid of any
Metallic or other Injurious Ingredient.
Nothing so Effectual as Edwards’ “ Harlene.”— “ Dear Sir,—l am very pleased to say that your ‘ Harlene ’is
taking effect upon my hair. Have tried several remedies, but none have proved so effectual as Edwards’ ‘ Harlene.’—
E. RIOKET, 595 High Road, Gunnersbury.”
A Wonderful Discovery.—" Dear Sir,—Yours is indeed a wonderful discovery. I have used one bottle, and can
detect an improvement in my hair already. Please send another bottle.—W. A. RUDSTEAD, 40 Handsworth
Street, Glasgow.”
An Anxious Father Satisfied.—" Sir,—l am pleased to testify to the efficacy of your ‘ Harlene.’ My little boy
(4i years old) has had a bald place on the back of his head from his birth. I applied the * Harlene ’to the place daily,
and the result has been most satisfactory ” —Name and address suppressed by desire. Original may be seen.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle. To be obtained from the leading Merchants, Wholesale
Druggists, Chemists, and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
Manufactured Only by
EDWARDS and Co.,
95, High Holborn, London, England.
Magdalen,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This that they do is my reward for sin,
Eor sin and shame have ever been akin
And dwell together in the heart of me,
Where joys and sorrows turned to curses be,
Where never loving kindness shall win in.
For, while I stand despised, grand dames sweep
by,
Who sold themselves for gold to slavery,
To men for whom not even a little love
They had ; yet virtue is reward thereof—
The virtue of the churches, not the sky !
In years agone I fell for love of one—
Sweet love it was that loosed my virgin zone;
He left me alter, bearing in my womb
The sign of shame, the mark of my own doom ?
A harlot now, what else could I have done ?
They were but harlots from the first, wild sold
Their ivory bodies for the lust of gold
To men whd bought them for the hist of flesh ; ■
Clear-eyed, they sought by choice the devil's
mesh;
This is truth only that I now have told !
Yet do they scorn me, who with me are kin.
Although between us is a wall so thin
That none may see material thereof;
Church creeds applaud them as at me they scoff;
And point me orit as one deep-srink in siri.
Yet where!ii diffet lin siti from the§o
Who lift the lip of sedtn and stiff the knees ?
Seeing tile hollow-eyed, -With Harlot cheek,
Arid; seeing, thank In tones that are not meek;
The hatd-btdWed Gdd Of all the PhatiSebs.
Arid thus they say—“ C Lord, vVd ate I'hy saints;
And serVe the letter of Thy law’s restraints
In holiness; We ate not such as these
Who sell their bodies unto lust for fees—
Hath riot church-Wedding held Us from such
taints ?”
And down itt hell, hearing, the devils laugh
And tell the fate of them that loved the Calf
Of Gold itt Israel, and the Pharisee
Who said, “ Not as this publican I be !”
Hell knows that prayer and the reward thereof !
There was a White Christ once, with heart of
dove,
With lovingkindness all men else above,
Through Whose brown eyes in pity looked His
soul
On them that strove in Vain and failed the goal ;
But where is now the Christ of Hope and Love ?
Down from the altars are His statues rolled,
The Church has east out pity from its fold,
And lovingkindness thrown from out its door,
For Christ it knows and heeds not any more,
But has gone back unto the Calf of Gold !
Melbourne.
STEELE GREY.
Victorian Government has put a duty oil
red herrings:—
The thinking matt Will) at the worst, a
Consistency find herb: '/
We cannot have a Freetrade thirst
With duty on our beer.
Serial stories are forbidden in Turkey, and
the press censor promptly stops the issue of any
paper containing a tale “to be continued in our
next.” It is held that the mental strain and
anxiety of waiting for the next instalment pf the
yarn unsettle the public mind, and thereby sow.
the seeds of revolution, and that the only way to
keep the nation calm and contented is to have
all stories complete in one issue. The Bulletin
has long recognised this.
Of the ex-Empress Eugenie, Sir Richard
Wallace wrote :
She had paroxysms of mawkish philanthropy, as when
she insisted that the prostitute inmates of Saint Lazare
should have dessert after their dinner. The same woman
would, at the end of a hunt, deliberately jump off her
horse, plunge a gleaming knife into the throat of a pant*
ing stag, and revel in the sight of blood. Many who saw
her do this argued that, in the hour of danger she would
as boldly face the enemies of herself and her dynasty. The
event proved that they were Utterly mistaken. She slunk
away at the supreme hour; while the Princess Clotilde,
whom she had presumed to teach the manners of a court,
left Paris like a princess, in an open landau preceded by
an out-rider.
The Arts and Crafts Exhibition, now being
held in Sydney, under the auspices of the local
Architectural Association, deserves recognition,
if only because the show is the first of its kind in
Australasia, The idea of holding these exhibitions
in England originated with Walter Crane, who
stands in the front rank of decorative artists,
using the term in its widest possible sense, and
who is also an ardent socialist, working hand and
glove with William Morris, the poet, in assisting
the cause of Labour. The Sydney experiment
has, of course, a narrower scope than its prototype,
but it, nevertheless, carries with it an important
lesson. One has only to look at the admirable
metalwork on view here, and the wrought-iron
gates for the Town Hall enclosure (the latter not
only made in New South Wales but also produced
from local ore).
A London writer ;
The average English husband tires of his wife, but so he
would of a harem if he had one. Man never is, but always
to be blest. Wisdom is a rare quality in this world, but
still rarer is that of being content with one’s lot. I have
a strong conviction that the average English husband gets
at least the wife he deserves, and when he whines about
the superiority of the French woman or the German he is
like the musician who complains of his violin. Instrument
for instrument, the Englishwoman is, I have no doubt,
equal to the daughter of any other country. It is for the
husband to get out of her what tune he can, and the
result will probably depend in a greater degree than he
suspects upon his own powers as a virtuoso. It
has been remarked in this connection that the
man who finds in his wife a good cook or a good
housekeeper, and nothing more, will be very much obliged
to her, but will go elsewhere for his romance. But what
is his romance? I should like a definition of romance as
it is understood by the suburban classes. Consider the
daily round of life on a small income, and how little
opportunity there is on the one side or the other for
romance to come in ! The husband, having been in the
city all day, comes home to an evening meal, and after a
pint of beer or other soporific falls asleep over the evening
paper. The wife, for her part, has had a hard dav, too,
and, having got the children to bed, is glad to spend an
hour with the work-basket. If in such a household the
wife has fathomed the mysteries of plain roast and boiled,
and knows how to handle a baby, “ Married Man” ought
to be confoundedly well satisfied. He gets out of marriage
as much as, or more than, he brings to it.
Now che public are assured ours are genuine.
Filling rapidly. Gala, c/o H, Alexander, 67
Oxford-street, Sydney. 10,000 at 5. Dec. 3rd.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
m
s
/
5?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT!
✓
m
-r
/r
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and inf act any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
ES
Mrs, Wood’s
Famous English Remedy
for
Removing Irregularity and all
Obstruction from whatever
cause (without the use of pernicious drugs) is the
only recognised positive and safe one known to
medical science. Consult an eminent lady
specialist practising in Melbourne for more than
20 years, I have important information, to convey
to you. Consultation and full particulars by
letter free. Letters from all parts strictly private
and promptly answered. Over 300 testimonials
open for inspection and investigation.
Address : 4
Mrs. G. WOOD,
7
144 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
DEAF
Drapery.
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drum*. Relieves noises,&c.
in the head. Cures Deafness;
Send for book and partiou.
lars. Address the Sole
Agent : A. M. NAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne,
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
4ft
PAN
Dr, Jaeger’s
—GAUZE-
UNDEIIVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
m
i
v\
'its.
'A
Y.
3s. Oca. & 5s 6d.
3s. 6dL. & ss. 6dL.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGEN T TS.
G. H. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
Australian stories and sketches in prose and verse
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid, to
anv of the Australasian colonies.
Hotel,
T “ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to*
Fastlereagfc-strect),
Between King Je Market Sts .
SYDNEY,
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
MlTDOt£, ]V[etnagET,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
0
If*
#
PATENT
PILLS.
w
ft
$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box tot bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
iufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam s Cougu
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxe* Is. l£d- (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity). „,. . „ .
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere. . , ,
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Lif-ht and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
' Business Announcements.
E P PS’S
GRATEF QL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
A.XVCI Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms : 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements,
MASON BROTHERS
(limited),
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the Trade and Wholesale
buyers only,
Ironmongery »t General Hardware,
GLASS, CHINA, and EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, & SPIRITS,
and
GENERAL BULK MERCHANDISE .
Sole Agents for— LUCIEN FOUCAULD Sc CO.’S
OLD BRANDIES.
J. T. GAYEN’S Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN & CO.’S Champagne Pale Ales.
MAOHEN’S “ Pelican ” Stout.
“THE ROYAL EDINBURGH CASTLE”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKIES.
31
Bo
(f
a
VmsM
■■r: E3
•'
40,000 in I si*. Record. I*o words |)i*r iniuuto.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading- newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 first-olsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY; J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizabeth-st ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J. Walch & Sons.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of Thk Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Sco
Whisky
DRINK
“UHLS
SCOW
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
j recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. IST" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
| If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious
ROSE'S,
ste
ilill
m
8f
Wk
6
ti
2S:
B
THEONLY
mm
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OP SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘Price Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Posted
to any English address for Is. lOd. in stamps.
Business Announcements*
f
d
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s. to 14s. 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-A T AN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
tobacconist; country storekeepers,
Squatters, Station Hands, &c-,
We make, repair, strap or mount all kinds of
PIPES, and cut and fit any amber or other
mouthpieces. Send your pipes down and we
will return them by Post. A liberal discount
to the Trade.
CRAIG »• AITKEN,
—6BO & 682
GEORGE STREET,
SYDKTEY.
ALLT'S
SPARKLING
ALE.
<> <r
0
\y
&
*
QH, FOR A MOUSTACH Elt
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. lEt
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CIMMi »V tITk Sole Age.ls.
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Ask for
GO?
tut®*
W
CO
ge3
So
Aoturs :
De Lissa & Phillips,
Barrack It., Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the piiucipal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities ior dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.


“ A. jXrTICUT -a..”
Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A'certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. Od. and 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal m rcfiants and saddlers throughout the
colony, or from H. LEICESTER, S 9 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Snecially appointed agent tor N.S.W. for “Anticuta"
Company.
’ OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDA V.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
100-wstir’s WlilsKy.
30 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
HUDSON
1
I
LTD.
CJlydLe Works, Granville, Mew South Wales
AGRICULTURAL AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
IRRIGATION. —Complete Plants contracted for,
“ CLYDE ” WINDMILLS are made specially for the colony, and give better
results than any imported Mills. Ask for testimonials. Our large and
practical experience is at disposal of our clients.
‘‘ CLYDE ” DAM-PLOUGHS and EARTH-SCOOPS in all sizes.
AGRICULTURE- —Our “CLYDE” PLOUGHS, from one-furrow to eight-
furrows, have won first place; and our new HARVESTING
M AGHlNERY—Strippers, Winnowers, Binders and Mowers challenge
comparison with any.
m
m
■■
m
■
mi
r
■
/
NO DUTY. Please write for full Illustrated Catalogues
K. A. H t rvcj’, Agent, 144 €lareuce*st , Sydney.
//
'A
r
i
- ■■gi
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
<obkr Part? : “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
mmsm.
m
Uuutiugtou 91111.
l£uovtics’ i’uiups.
PARKE & LACY CO,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &o., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYIDUNTB'Sr, 3NT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Cock Breakers.
Ln
-ft -3
Lx
Tl'eslim?k<m»e E',!s"lne».
* ■;
111
eK
iH
Mm
0 Ili
J 5
urning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING* BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
fc Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
v as
■ffa
*'i "‘v
■
m
Hay-street In, “ d OB '" 1 Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
fd
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
