

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
AITKEN’S ALE T^ICKENKWHTSKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
ST IN THE MARKET
AND
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SimiEl) TO T3SE PBIXUIAUmBS JV SIMET.
HARRISON & ATT WOOD,’ 251 George-st., Sydney, Bole Agents for
H. <3-. & CO., 107 scent; 'Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors 9 Plant, Engineers 9 and Sawmill Machinery, i Mining Requisites,
EIXIPXjOSIVIEIS, BUILDEBS’ & GEUEEAL lEO ZEST ZMI O r l>P GEEY.
NEW and SECONp-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE,
tr
A. WEIGEL & Co., Ltd,
CHAMPAGNE,
i-m
EfK 4.1 V DS.
Extra Dry ... Very Dry.
Dry Imperial ... Dry.
.Carte i/or Sweet.
piticrs.
F.Q.B. Melbourne.
Wholesale Agents—
Geo. Kaufmann & 00-,
25 King St., Melbourne,
—AND—
-30 Pitt Sttecf ? Sydney.
rt.
0 X
f Hft
I -1
oxi2s
rS3
1S&&&
The Oxford. BoteL Street, SJ3rca.23.osr.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
Paris House
RESTAURANT FRANCAIS.
0. DESNEUX ... PROPRIETOR.
—W—
TABLE D’HOTE -PARISIENNE, 2s. Cl
(Wine Included).
PRIVATE ROOMS, 4s.
s3f” Being in close proximity to the loading places
of amusement, families intending to spend the
evening at the theatre cannot do better than to
order their dinner here.
Private Rooms for Dinners & Suppers.
Suppers after the Theatre if ordered.
BANQUET ROOMS for PARTIES up to FIFTY.
Service a la carte Daily from 8 a.m. till 11 p.m
OF'-ISTa- OKT
Dinners from 3s. 6d'. upwards.
Extra Dinners at a Few Minutes' Notice,
fg
#■
dfg
6 %0
M
CLARETS, CHABLIS,
.A-IsTD
SAUTERNES.
GAN ALWAYS BE RELIEI) UP.9N.
To be 3md. frqm all Wine Sp Spirit Merch.an.tr..
THE LARGEST LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY IN THE WORLD.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
Insurance Company of New York.
RICHARD A. MoCURDY,
President.
Accumulated Funds exceed ... ... . ... ... £30,600,000
Bonuses Paid in 1890 ... ... ... ... ... 5!75,748
Being an increase over the amount paid in Bonuses in 1889 of 98,899
The BONUSES declared on the Company’s Whole Life New Distribution Policies of cnly Five
Years* standing range from ifil 19s. Id. to £3 12s. 7d. per cent, per annumn, according to age.
A LARGE BONUS.
The Company has recently forwarded to the holder of policy No. 278,127 a cheque for
£1,099 13s. 6d. in payment of the cash value of the Bonus for 1891, the
Policy being for 10,000, and issued in 1886, on the five year distribution plan. This
return is equal to an annual cash bonus of £2 4s. for each £lOO insured. Many of
these policies are reaching the bonus period with results very gratifying to the Insured. 1
The total payments to Policy-holders to December, 1890, amounted to £63,469,822,
of which upwards of £117,400,000 were bonus payments,—more than twice the amount of
Bonuses paid by any other Company. ■ ’
■ {a. > « 1 ■"
Principal Agency: 131 Pitt-street, Sydney.
7. p. lIKNME, General Manager.
The General Manager will be glad to communicate with gentlemen of position and influence
with a view to their representing the Company.
Victorian Branch:
410 Collins Street, Melbourne.
New South Wales Branch:
131 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Queensland Branch:
223 Queen" Street, Brisbane.
The Bulletin
Vo]. 12—No. 633.]
[Saturday, April 1892.


iltuJ
m *
CdLOKML AMD IWTHRCOkONIAL UWE?.
mm
W
d
■irS
TELEGRAM to
U
F«WM reject to the Printer! Regulations of the Department,, tehicb
Ou>y Le scut at aay Port or Telegraph Office in Hew South Wale*.)
ms
i!
jmci
mL
vSuSV
>■<
a_ N«
e**
tZ&HfzvCo
m
SINGLE and DOUBLE BUPTU !E effect-
ually ( U I! El) witlioiu operation or use
of truss by l)H. DAY’S. IMTEN'IV AB-
DOMINAL and INGUINAL COM I’ll I-SS Hit
and UK UN I.A KLDUCEK. Cases of over 20
years standing ha ve been cured by tins treat-
iuent. Does not inconvenience or mternn-e
with occupation. Mailed complete lor ilo to
any colony IN-
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA;
STANLEY & Co., 263 COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
m
HY WILL YOU SUFFER from
DEBILITATING DISEASES which
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN-
HOOD? You mav now-cure yourselves
without CONSULTING ft DOCTOR.
Send Six Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing the
French method of <JtHCK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-CUBE.
NERVOUS WASTING and
Address: Parisian Agency Co., Bos 766, Sydney.
Dr.fllDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
“ Tliis is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas.. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wj[. Johnstone
Pii.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
'J
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
GOLDEN
SPECIFIC
The Drink Hahit when
acquire*! is positively a
disease
pure ami simple, ami no
loiu- r a habit, loathsome, disgusting, and ruinous. In these
Colonies THOUSANDS
gratefully acknowledge
the efficacy and success
of this great Itemed y.
Can l»e used with or
wirifotfr thk si'BJEt'T’s ksowi.edgk. It is absolutely harmless,
safe, sure ami speedy. Tae ** (Joldeii Specific” supplies the
place of the accustomed liquor, ami promptly causes its disuse.
Hundreds without their knowledge are now inadj temperate
men, mid fancy tl««y have quit drinking of their own free will.
Jlemre of worthless substitutes now being advertised
under fancy titles in a manner to deceive the public.
These are both dangerous ami melee*. " OoUlen Specific mi*
stood the test (or years. 11l all the WORLD the ONLY CURL for
DRUNKENNESS
Warranted genuine. Write for lluok, sent with full particulars
and Colonial testimonials free by return. We have uu Agents,
.Sole Vca lar* and Proprietors (and our only Ad ires*):-
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO , j^Petb auraaf^ic
GRO SYEN OR HOT E L.
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE
(Next to Supreme Court).
Excellent Accomodation for Visitors to the Metropolis.
Wines and Spirits of the Best Brands only
kept in Stock
11. M. KAVANAGII (LATE ok tiik royal', PROPRIETOR.
“THE BULLETIN’S”
History of Botany Bay.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J, FE R. R B,
Successor to Broil) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
70 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HATTERS
6EORGESTREET
N
S
IMPORTERS OF ALLTHE
NEWEST SHAPES.
And at ALBERT STREET, BRISBANE.
PRIVATE HOME FOR LADIES.-Mrs. LAVENDER,
Professional Nurse and Accoucheuse,
Receives Patients from the country under Surgical or
Medical Treatment. (Established in Botany-street Ten
Years.) For terms, apply “ Windermere,” 132 Botany-
street, Moore Park, Sydney,
V
STEELE’S GALVANIC
\ /
//,'! IVvS
GCIMT’SBtIUT
m
ELECTRIC BELTS,
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we hog they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arisirr l ' from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia,
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, &c. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of £2—
registered letter, post-order, or cheque. When ordering
Belt send waist measure above the hips.
Druggist. H. P. BABIED, Chemist.
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 78 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
ROOKING BACKWARDS.
With all due respect to Bellamy’s cleverness and
foresight, he omitted from his great Social Work
the fact that KENNY’S Commercial Hotel,
BROKEN HILL, contains Forty (40) Rooms,
and is the Premier Institution of its kind on the
Great Silverfield.
“ A Golden Shanty,”
(:)
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four IVeeks by the use of
O s R. ICORD'S
ft*
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
•nd unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord's.Essence o/ Life restores manhood to the most
shattered and debilitated constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame , and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
In cases of i?s.. or four quantities in One for j6s. Freight
extra . Pamphlets frei on receipt of stamped addressed envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry IP Co., Gertrude Street
Fitz* oy . Melbourne.
Agents for N. S. Wales-W, 11, Soul &00., Pitt-st., Sydney
NEVER TRAVEL WI THO IT T IT.
IN EYEEY HOUSE.
fg fgdf
m
EFFECTUALLY
AIL NOXIOUS INSECTS^
, . . ;•'*£ L*. *»’*»*'?*** >v'’.
FLEAS,fUES. BEETLES MOSQUITOES.
COCKROACHESAAISA 4 AND IS
AT THE SAME TIME QUITE
HARM LESS TO BIRDS DOGS,
FOWLS OR OTHER'S?*
ANIMALS
■ J i-£ W- '
.. -r ,
v ‘ - ■ -d
j l;. £
A
dfg d gd
A? \vy 'J
■*■ *
SOLDI
r.N TitfSj
JPWARDS
It MI STS
AND STGRLKIEPERS
WHOtisnit
(FELTON- C RIM W A D E.UC °i
! -MELBOURNE—.
WANTED IN EVERY HOUSE.
Ask for KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE, and Beware
of the Numerous Imitations.
X'S
SPEEDILY CURES all COMPLAINTS of the UEINAEY ORGANS
From a Prescription of Dr. Berkeley Hill, London, the great authority on Diseases of the Urinary Organs.
TRY IT -It has cured thousands and will cure yon. Do .not be persuaded to use injections which
hr the'maturityof cases do serious harm-causing Stricture, etc. Securely packed, free from observe
tion, and senUo all parts of the colony on receipt c£ss., Stamps or P. 0.0. Sold by all Chemists.
9 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
f Please mention this paper when orderini
D
:/av:
WH£
Sc6tchWhisky
A literary treat for Australians abroad, and for absent friends
of Australian readers of The Bulletin
A Golden Shanty.
rf
For Itch
01
99
Insect Bites,
Eruptions, &c.
11 For acne spots on the face, and particularly for eczema, it is undoubtedly efficacious, frequently
healing eruptions and removing pimples in a few days. It relieves itching at once —The Baby.
4-
“ Of unquestionable excellence, and much in favour with the profession.” —British Medical Journal.
"Au ideal soap, delightfully perfumed.” —Chemist and Druggist.
imota f mwter.
“ ' vinolia ' Powder is an impalpable rose dusting powder, soluble, of remarkable fineness, and well
adapted for the nursery, toilet, • weeping ’ surfaces, and sweating feet.’’—British Medical Journal,
CAN BE OBTAINED OF ALB CHEMISTS,
CS-OXj3DEIT SHC-A-ISTT^ST:’ 3
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIN” Writers.
Size, Demy Octavo—with Handsome Coloured Illustrated Cover.
Price - ONE SHILLING; per Post, Is. 3d*


Medical.
„ YORK STREET, WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY
i n Box 920. This eminent specialist is a graduated
1 waieian of Harwood University, U.S., registered by the
of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted 1G
00 1 o the special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN
veals .r l .1! .1 51 UV 1 SWASI KT AIT
SPECIAL diseases of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
•'"r to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
ing to hue.
Guaranteed or forfeit £2OO,
plaints. No experimenting ;no mercury used. A positive
His vast experience
o.Vls him Hut where there is no organic disease, and
othin" hut an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
”niedomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
tlere is no reason why it cannot be removed:with the
roper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he I 1""
his 1
DlSEi-
advice free to all. , „ . c
m to 12 a.m.; '2 to 4 and i to 8 pm.
Charges moderate. Otiice Hours—lo
Debility.
Consult Dr, Speer in all cases of NERVOUSNESS AND
Vi: ,\( WEAKNESS through indiscretion, for his many
ears of practice with this dreadful disease enables him
) -i'remove all traces of it and to return the victims to full
VIGOUR. HEALTH and MANHOOD.
VB- TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to send for
remedies necessary fortheeme of NERVOUS DEBILITY.
i»IL SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
P I L Ij S :
1 —AMERICAN “ VITAL” PILLS, for nervous debility,
lost vitality, sexual weakness, errors, &e., 55., or 21s. for
(he boxes,
•> AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for discharges,
•onlagious sores and blood diseases, 55., or 21s. for five
boxes.
3, —“FEMALE” PILLS for irregularities and obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Du SPEER draws attention to his— A., Extremely
Moderate Charges ; U., Effectual and Rapid Treatment;
C, Absolute ami Permanent Cure.
i
VI
o'
❖
AN’t)
Private vHc^pital,
I or the Treatment of
Nervous, Rheumatic & Joint Diseases.
Electricity and Electric-baths daily
from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m.
tic* Hunter St., Sya»ey
(Second door off Macquarie Street).
Book of 3XTsa,t;ix3rc.
4
BotJk of 3JJa,tia.re.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide.— A full and explicit explanation of toe
structure and uses of the organs of life and (feneration in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
;and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process or
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production lias ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. By rn, M.D., price 3/0, post
4/-, The art of Boxing, Swimming., and Gymnastics made
'easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
■athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, 'by Dr- Foote post
tree 7/0. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besants
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2, Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
:as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besapt, >l/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
>to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertaiu-
nnents, &c., price 1/6.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmasi r, or HO.W to
(Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price I/O.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, .Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” bv Dr. Lamartine, 1/6. ,
'Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new ,work containing all
the tricks and' deceptions with cards ever invented,
■simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
'amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 10 lark
Street, SYDNEY.
For Consumption use.
(pim^sovs
V. ■’
f
/
t »Kj
\W
F
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory:
Gootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, ( liniSTlTll Kf'JH.
Ewing:’s Indelible
Marking* Ink.
First Prize:
MELBOURNE EXHIBITION.
Approved and Patronised by Vice-Royalty asb
the Elite of the Australasian Colonies.
Report of the Government Analytical Chemist; '‘l have examined Ewing’s Indelible Marking Ink,
for marking linen, etc. It is very good, the writing done with it resisting all attempts to wasn u .
It may be well recommended.—Signed, Wm. Johnston.” . m . r.,,,- „
All Wholesale and Retail Chemists, Stationers, Drapers, In oases, Is. fiSarnjvr ± ‘ wmg ’
Chemist (by appointment) to His Excellency, Brunswick-street, Eitzroy, MELBOU Ko B.
wa
El
H
■SS
■
auiM "' mu
VOI \4. HEX, MII>I»LE-A«EI> MEN, OU» MBS
should send for
Dr. Perry’s Pamphlet on Nervous Diseases s
Their Cause, Sv.mpto.ms, and Treatment.
This pamphlet is specially written to show a method of
counteracting the ill effects of indiscretions in early life,
overwork, mental worry, See., and contains a fund of use-
ful information for every sufferer from the following cqitv-
plaints, viz Loss of Energy and Will Power, NRRVOIw
DEBILITY, Pains in the Back, Defective Memory, Specks
before the Eyes, Excessive Nervousness, Premature
Decay, Bashfnlnoss, Excessive Heart Palpitation, Des-
pondency, Impure Blood, Liver and Kidney Complaints,
Contagious Diseases, and various other symptoms experi-
enced by Nervous Sufferers.
This Pamphlet is sent Free on Application,
and all in any way suffering from the above would derive
benefit from the perusal of this work.
If tire patient's case is of long standing, and ; therefore
in need of treatment, he should lose no time in writing
me a letter detailing in full his symptoms, on receipt of
which I will at once reply, explaining the nature of his
complaint, and if I can effect a cure, the time it will take,
and the cost of doing so. My long experience in the
treatment of Nervous Diseases has made me thoroughly
conversant with all their peculiarities. I am prepared,
therefore, to
Gmntsi a Permanent aid Complete Cure in every case I undertake,
I inyile the fullest investigation into my qualifications. For.some time I was House Surgeon to the Great
Northern Hospital, London, where I had special opportunities of investigating the causes of .Nervous Diseases, ana
bee line perfectly acquainted with the most approved scientific and successful methods of affecting their cure.
ALL CONSULTATIONS, either by letter or in person, FREE. Hoars of Consultation—From 10 a.in. to 4 p.m.
daily ; Saturdays, 10 to 12 a.m. ; and from 7to 9 p.m. on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Address all letters
Dr, M, PERRY, M.R.C.S., L.S.A., etc.,
ELMSLEY HOUSE, 151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
VARICOCELE COMPLETELY CURED WITHOUT OPERATION.
DIABETES and TUMOURS treated by a New Method of CUTANEOUS MEDICATION.
N.8.-I would advise all patients, before placing their ease in any practitioner's hands, to first pertain if he is
a duly qualified man or not. This can easily be done by referring to the Medical Registei. U • *1 I
E>i?.
Wm. LANGSTON, M.JFt.C.B., Eng.,
Hi
Li
mm
zs' n
<n/
Is
late Surgeon in Imperial Forces, Army Medical
Staff, Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act
of Parliament to practise in all the
branches of Medicine and Surgery, is
now permanently located at No 121 Collins
Street, Melbourne. ® .
Being - convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced aed unqualified
men 1 feel it my duty as a legally qualified physician
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of .my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made and appropriate medicines
sent.
The Doctor’s life-long experience,
extending over 40 years, and practical
liethod of treatment insure a speedy and
permanent cure in all Private, Nervoui,
■Chronic; Skin', and Special D seascs. No
'experimenting, both Sexes Consult
Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY, FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Arising from Indiscretion, Excess or Indulgence,
producing some of the following effects—
Nervousness, Debility, Dimness of Sight, Hell-
Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
Pace, Aversion to the Society of Females,
Loss of Ambition, hack of Confidence, Gloomi-
ness Despondency. Barrenness, Unfitness to
Marry, Melancho y. Dyspepsia, Stunted Develop-
ment Lost Manhood, Night Losses,’Pains in
the Back, Varicocele, etc, treated with success. Safely ami Privately.
>ca SnfPIV aiiu .j,
BLOT!) & SKIN DISEASES aU forais ’ !l^ ctin? ® ody ’
uuyjyju u u „ u , muun uuu MmToz™* 0 d toreruicers. Painful Swellings, from whatever cause.
treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Remedies. Stiff “nd J^varTc^^^
suit of Bipod Poison. CURED. Sqft feeling bunch of earth-like wonm» , VARICOCEL
WITHOUT OPERATION Constitutional°%Acqu,re(l WRu’ture and permanently
Tumors removed painlessly and without the use of the k “ lfe . JvJP- f ik aml (o rtain cure. I use
cured Fits. Epilepsy, or falling sickness radically cured. Asthma, quick lend ana certain cuie. x
only the boot remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders and prouused cure-a l t ■ •
and often dangerous*. Every case requires special y Prepared trea. ment All til skill, n
vespectfui 'umnneTT arid blowing what to WSo Persons ailing IT
number of cases applying, the charges are kept low. Home ii eatiMent. Persons aura.
number of cases applying, the charges are kept low. ■> k lirilClM: UlllEnfATE
stance can be. successfully treated at hprue. * a com* *oi
treatment by return post. BEFORE. “*« a * «ru •* ■ ibb* b. a
i r ß' r ST SB ■?!
iSiHF i»Tb ANoTITIiCESSFIIi PiSVSmiA*, OK. LANCSTONj
a filli". v A jr . . j, ■ __ii m -., v save future suffering and shame and add
age and experience important. A inendly letter or call ni.i) .ate uiuiix » u ““ lu 8
golden years to 1 fo. No mercury or poisonous drugs used.
j-- • -
Dr. WM. LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., &c.
421 COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
N-8.-Ppetor Langston is the Only Qualified Physician practising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Plum
I" E Pi
THE
c Plum ’
Tills 'brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has over been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, ami rings like a byll: set ready for use, and wo
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
tolv.es they cannot possible do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong leather case. 10s. (id. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case', 21s.
( Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, dOs.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents :
CHAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Ic E CHES T S.
ICE CERAM FIiEEZERS,
WATER FILTERS.
Ironmongers, BRISBANE.
DRAWING ROOM
Suites in Plush
From £7 10 0.
Medical.
Dr. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours;
at ids new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET; SYDNEY
©
I
m
This eminent Specialist, rounder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading college i
and hosp itats of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, wit,h these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi i
patients, he has during Ids practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. 11 is practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un
happ'neSs than any other class'of troubles tha .
afllict mankind.
young; MEN
who sutler from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowslncssduring
the day, circles round the eyes, Oiddinoss,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bach fulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back. Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the cars find head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happeri,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, liasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cougli who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
ma®tcred these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps ho will send secure from observation in a
P ' a rarr C UtAKG.i CLOTH-BOUND
LOU x.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary exponce. -Lius
hook will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health oven after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tem ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous it would be advisable for you to sit down
nuielly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
m onion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medica
lhe nr ice of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
I°. vohunewill bo fob.,da Ift of ca,-ot«Hy ; prc
pared questions, which will ... all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
1 Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
„. veP prescribes mercury under any circum-
Tto momont lottos aro ca.-eh.lly per-
used and they are destroyed by fire,
ami patients may rest assured that their cases
remain a secret between the doctor and
A, “solves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25.000 cases since coming to Australia, and
Eas permission from at least 10.000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ue sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TRUE.


«&£. C
Sol© in Wew South Wale© for Messrs. Clayton a*aci Shuttleworth.
t •*
AS
>/*
Jompottnd Portable Engine, with automatic
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
expansion
CLAmpfL», SHUTTLE. WORTH UHtOLK W9?=
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING! MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.VV.
S n v ■' Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines,
ill! Ti Ln T neS w all classes : Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
p / ,!® £ ,lash,l, ° of , all srzes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
t. ble Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power' Corn Shelters.
COMPOUND UNDERTtPE FIXED EMGINI3
AN'O'
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION
Sz O. Howard.,
ENGINES.
2BO|
lull Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application;
JP itsts ES tsiroots, Sy cimey*
H. P. GREGORY & (JO.,
161 Clarence Street, Sydney,
- AND AT—
!I3X"J.S3'I3Sb!O.© eis J^Eol.l3O"o.ir , 3J!l©,
Engineeis cind General Machinery Merchants.
IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE—
STEA^oSffl E viSml. SSS. 2 t 0 20 h ° rSe - pOWeP * Separate and comb ™ d > 6orf-
hTSeifr 16 and Dnplex ? suitable for all
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS, with and without Engine.
and WEIGHBRIDGES also, DENISON’S SUSPENDED WEIGH-
of every description* and of the most recently-improved dfesign
Wood working machinery, by j. a Fav and Co r q„;.r OTW * r , m
Almost every machine known to'the wood-Sking trades fn stock ** ° tW
SIFTING and MIXING MACHINERY for Bakers, Druggists, Spice Manufacturers, etc.
BLOCKS,
Co) i espondence solicited. All enquiries promptly replied toi
INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY!
KODAK
CAMERA.
*'nr •
m
PIYE
Sizes.
(TWO' VIEWS OF THE SOBJECT.)'
He ( excitedly J r s< Hang it, I’m sure I heard one of those confounded Kodaks!”’
She ( quietly) : “ Possibly; my brothers all have them, yon know.”
sou A JEIi t ■ 3AOR & EOUSH
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next A.J.S. Bank*; ” ?
AND AT
256 Collins Street, Melbourne; 69 Bundle Street. Adelaide; 46 Queen Street, Brisbane'/
SEND POIt NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
WILLIAMSON
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE.
BOHOTJGH: OF 3reEDFBIIKr,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND; EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, Ac.
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING,.
Bass’ !Pale Ale
LBaoc. wAwb
i
Guinness’ ESsctra Stout
FOSTER'S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
ARSOHITELY PXT RE;
and are
HOT CHEMICALLY' TREATS},
AGENTS*
Balchin, Johnston £ Co.,
SYDNEY.
Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses,
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPOUTING, SHIP USE, tec.
WATERPROOF COATS, cte., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GEOROE STREET, SYDUiEY.
Freehold Investment
and.
Deposit Bank,
335 a George-St., Sydney,
'Two doors from Wynyard street),
the
NEW YORK LIFE
I
AN C E CO.
Begs leave to annotmce that its TWENTY-YEAR TONTINE POLICIES issued
in 1872, are now maturing, with the following results :
3L.
o<v . h. °^ diliar y f L ? fe Ponies are returning from 20 to 52 per cent.- in excess of their cash cost
accenting to age of insured. (See example helow.)
2. Twenty-Year Endowment Policies are returning from 58 to 71 per cent in excess of
their cash cost, according to age of insured.- (See example below. ) *
3. Limited Payment Life Policies are returning from 43 to 141 per cent, in excess of their
cash cost, according to age of insured. (See example below.)
EXAMPLES OF MATURING POLICIES
1, Policy taken at Age 43, ££CCO; Cost, £1402; Cash Value. £1757 15.- 2d
2, Policy taken at Age 30, *5000; Cost, £4853; Cash Value £8238 '*
3., Policy taken at Ago 37, £10,000; Cost. £7165; Cash Value, £10,333 Bs.
These returns are made to members after the Company has earned the insurance oil {lr-
respective policies fo* twenty years. jusunmce on
S.
L Persons insured under Ordinary Life Policies may, in lieu) of the above cash values,-
continue their insurance, at original rates, and receive Cash Dividends of from 71 to 115 per
(See' ex ain pi w!)' * # 1,0611 “ d amUml tlivi<lcufls as they accrue.-
2. Persons insured under Limited Payment Life Policies may, in lieu of die above cash
values continue hour insurance, without further payments, an 1 receive Cash Dividends of Don*
acc™.Paid, and annual dividends hereafter as they
EXAr.IPLES OF DIVIDENDS,
1. Policy (see above) may he continued for the original amount, at original rates, with aunttf
dividends, and the accumulated dividends, amounting to ££Bo 12s. Ed.,nmy he withdrawn in cash,
2. Policy (see above) may he continued without further payments, receiving annual divi-
dends, and the accnimi.ated dividends, amounting to £*£2o 65., may be withdrawn in cash.
Persons desirimj to see results on policies issued at their / remit aye, anti farther / articular* m tv
options in settlement, n t I p 1 ease address the Company or its Atjaxts, yhimj date of birth.
COLONIAL
OFFICES:
(•, VllTOKa.tr
\ 408 Collins St.,. Melbourne.
<H'EKXSI.4M> ;
227 Qu&'an St.., Biisbaa
3VKW 2K.1 |, t\i>:
Feathsrstcne St., Wellinglor.
CHIEF OFFICES DEPARTMENT OF AUSTRALASIA-
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY.
JOS lAH HOWELL, General Manager,
FiWB PEffil
toNcW l ’ nni:s s ’ :W:a OK «I { OK STREET. two doors from Wynvard Street
LK.VUiy. Hill 1C IS funds invested in REAL B STATE ONLY. Advances made an dm seenrit v ,-f land
SWMSrS mnl CUMCS ,lliS ,nBti,U,iol ‘ ,0 Hates if I derest:
for Throe Months 0 per cent, per annum.
™ x Monl, w 7 per cent, per annum.
lor Twelve Months .... .... s (;ont , a „ m im.
DMOSITS. from 2 to 5 years, 9 per cent, per annum, with FIXED HUNTS of 1 percent per annum added
Cheques receivable and deposit receipt forwarded. Uusincss may be conducted by leiier to ihtMinrt u’siyqied
KDW L). A. MOHU AX, Secretary.


The Bulletin
Vol )?—No 633.
SATU RDAY, APRIL 2, 1892.
Price, 6cl.
PROGRAMME
Capital performance
SAM-GRIFFITH
We C’REAT RAPID CHAISE ARTIST
\ if Sum PI/sntation sketch
o R
A NIGGER IN THE FENCE f
2“’ sono 4nd Dance
'CW-PtWHITEHAH-pyT! l '
**<£ S i Cellar flap.
IJj£ MMOLE TO CONCLUDE WITH
the LAMHMLE FARCE
thi
lam-grab Miiw/iy 11
'r//w/-£ 'itfifAffDOrW
J !/ S .V
i
A STUDY IN BLACK AND AND WHITE.
SAM GRIFFITH (preparing to go on): "Well, if they don't like the black side I can keep the white side towards the andience!"


The Bulletin
llie Rational Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors : BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.,
Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ••• ••• £lO 0
Half yearly 0 116
Quarterly 0 G 6
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Easiness Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed to J. F.
Archibald. n
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in tne
“ Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag 5000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
“ The Bulletin” will return all unavailable MSS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But we
desire those sending MSS. to distinctly undo stand that
we are not responsible for the preservation or transmission
of such MSS.
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty Shillings
sterling—which you may pay by Post Office Order, One
Pound Note, or Stamps of any Australian colony—you
can have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week
for a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not uish
to interfere.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can he obtained in London,
after (he arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C.
7?ie §Bzzlle£wi.
SATURDAY, APRIL 2, 1892.
Medical Fossildom.
New Socth Wales is, and for many years past
has been, the favourite hunting-ground of the
bogus or quack doctor. Owing to the astonish-
ing looseness of the law nearly any one may call
himself “Doctor” in that unhappy province,
and by virtue of a brass-plate and a huge red
lamp may proceed to try strange and gruesome
experiments on the human inside with com-
parative impunity. The mysterious hangers-on
of the medical profession are practically in-
numerable. The nervous-debility man, the
“lost manhood” practitioner, the individual
who preys on the citizen who doesn’t feci well,
the faith-healer, the mesmerist, the electro-
magnetic person, the individual who wants to
have £1 forwarded in stamps, the one who
wants 10s. in stamps, the liver-and-kidney
artist, the lost-vitality genius, the clairvoyant ;
the double-barrelled or combination trance-
medium who cures all diseases, and foretells the
future, and locates lost dogs, and gives legal
advice all in one act, and a hundred other sorts,
descriptions, and varieties of assorted physicians
are on the loose from one end of the province to
the other. Some of them are qualified ; the
vast majority are not. Most of their modes of
treatment are just about as effective as
if they stirred up the vitals of their
patients with a long, iron-shod pole. A
very large percentage are hideously illiterate
and live by the simple but efficient
process of scaring large sums of money out of
feeble-minded invalids, and then throwing them
out in a half-dead condition when their funds
are exhausted. They give strange death-certi-
ficates, and do curious things in matters relating,
to illegitimate infants. Therefore there has
been, for many years past, a loud and incessant
demand for an efficient Medical Bill which will
block the bogus physician in his devastating
track, and, after much waiting, a measure to
effect this purpose has at last come before the
Legislature. That is to say, the new Medical
Bill has been drawn ostensibly with a view to
the abolition of quackery. But, unhappily,
the drafting of it seems to have been left to the
most bigoted, narrow-minded, unprogressive,
and hopelessly intolerant members of a narrow-
minded and intolerant profession, and it is so
devised that it merely gratifies the private
grudges and animosities of the “legitimate”
medical fraternity, and leaves the quack very
much where he was.
* * *
In the first place, the Medical Bill does not,
in any sense, prevent the bogus doctor from
practising. The utter and irredeemable
quack—the one who has no degree whatsoever
—will be required to intimate on his doorplate
or in his advertisements that he is “not
registered.” Some very successful members of
the tribe, however, do not even pretend to be
registered, and to them the clairvoyant,
the trance-idiot, and their kind—the mea-
sure will make no difference. The “ legiti-
mate ” physician has no serious objection
to these people. They lie out of his sphere and
inflict no serious injury on his dignity. The
individual whom he regards with utter loathing
is the qualified doctor who treads on that un-
unwritten code which is described as the
“etiquette of the profession,” and the Medical
Bill is framed principally for his annihilation.
It provides, in the first place, for the appoint-
ment of a Medical Council consisting of
ten practitioners, five to be appointed by
the University Senate, and live by the Gover-
nor. The University Senate is a notoriously
conservative, bigoted, and fossilised institution,
and the Governor, it may be safely presumed,
knows nothing of medical science whatsoever.
This Council of Ten will rule the medical
register of New South Wales ; and as every un-
registered practitioner will be required to pro-
claim himself as a quack on his doorplate and
his professional card, the Council’s power of
getting level with its personal enemies is prac-
tically unlimited. It can do comparatively
little to the absolute and acknowledged swindler
—he will get on in Ids avowedly unregistered
state by peddling loathsome patent nostrums,
by exploiting nervous patients, by performing
illegal operations, and by blackmail, but when it
disqualifies a genuine practitioner —one who will
not live by such devices—for some insignificant
breach of medical etiquette, it virtually con-,
signs him to starvation.
# * *
A large number of different bodies exercise
the power of conferring degrees, and the holder
of a degree, under the proposed system, must
register himself with the Medical Council of
New South Wales in order that he may be
qualified to practise within the province. If
the body which conferred the degree sees fit to
strike the holder thereof from its register the
Medical Council will straightway withdraw his
local registration, and thus reduce him to the
status of a quack. The original degree was
conferred because the recipient was learned in
the art of medicine ; when it is cancelled he
remains equally learned and, in almost every
case, equally trustworthy, but he is obliterated
as a physician merely because he has done
something contrary to the “ etiquette ” of the
profession. Drunkenness and immorality are not
necessarily contrary to professional etiquette,
but it is fatal to advertise in the press or by cir-
cular. Also, it is a deadly sin to believe in or
practise homoeopathy, hydropathy or mesmerism
—or to meet in consultation any practitioner wdio
practises any of these forbidden arts, or to use
or recommend any patent, proprietary, or secret
medicine. When any doctor transgresses any
of these unwritten laws, and the body by which
he was originally registered hears of the fact
and cancels his registration, then the Medical
Council will straightway blast him for ever-
more, so far as its jurisdiction extends. When
any doctor so transgresses, it may be safely
assumed that the body by which he is registered
will hear of it—the Medical Council, without
the slightest doubt, will provide for that. But,
as it happens, the Council can only act after the
offender s degree has been cancelled, and here a
curious discrepancy comes in. Such a body as
the Royal College of Surgeons is intensely zealous
of the etiquette of the profession, and the person
who ranks as a member or even as a fellow
of that honourable body will be promptly
blighted if he outrages the combustible feelings
of the Council, and leads them to report him
for lowering the dignity of his art. On the
other hand, the man who merely owns a licence
from the Apothecaries’ Society is proof against
almost all chances. He holds the meanest,
cheapest, and least important degree which a
practitioner can hold, and yet be permitted to
fool with the human frame—a degree which
only declares him to be one remove higher than
the person who pounds drugs or turns the handle
of a pill-machine in a chemist’s shop. But the
Apothecaries’Society is so low-down that it pays
no heed to medical etiquette; it is the last refuge
of the medical outcast, and has no dignity to
lose, and, therefore, it seldom takes cognisance
of anything short of wilful murder. Conse-
quently, when two physicians commit some
paltry deviation from the cast-iron rules of the
trade the man of great learning and the highest
skill will be promptly cast out, and the one who
is only one remove from an ignoramus will con-
tinue to be a qualified doctor to the end. Under
pretence of saving the public from quacks the
man of the highest standing and ability will be
made a quack by Act of Parliament, and the
man who was next door to a quack all along will
go on as before.
* * #
That item in the unwritten code of the pro-
fession which forbids the use of any “secret
remedy ” is another fair sample of the incurable
conservatism of the profession. The average
“secret remedy”—the remedy which the in-
ventor deliberately keeps secret long after it
has passed the experimental stage—ds, it must
be admitted, .generally a delusion, and the
owner of it, an utterly soulless money-grubber.
Also the ordinary patent medicine is a thing
of which the less that is said the better. It is
reasonable, in the interests of the public, to
prevent any physician, under the most severe
penalties, from peddling his own or other people’s
patent remedies to his patients. But the clause
in question goes much further than this. Koch’s
consumption cure was, for many months, a
“ secret remedy,” and Koch himself could have
been disqualified under this far-reaching item
of medical etiquette. Pasteur’s discovery—or
alleged discovery—of a remedy for hydrophobia
comes under the same category. Every new
medicine must necessarily be more or less of a
“secret” in its early stages in order that
the discoverer may bring it to perfection—
or to something approaching|perfection—other-
wise he must turn it loose in its crude state in
order that dull or ignorant practitioners may
misuse it as a means for the wholesale destruc-
tion of their patients. Therefore, the Medical
Bill, in this aspect, becomes a means whereby
the skilled or enterprising physician who dis-
covers something new in the domain of medical
science may be promptly disqualified, banned,
and ruined by those ancient and stupid persons
who never discover anything, should the fossils
feel so inclined. The chances are that the
power would not be used, but its existence is
an outrage none the less. It is a scheme by
which Morell Mackenzie— who, despite his
vanity and his self-glorification, was still head
and shoulders above the ruck of his tribe—
might bo officially abolished, while the
drunken back-blocks sawbones, whose ideas
never, by any chance, soar above calomel and
aloes, would go on his dismal way with honour
to the end of his days. Morell Mackenzie,
in fact, was removed from the roll of the
College of Surgeons in his later days, for
quitting the ancient groves of his profession ;
this fact made little difference in England, but
in New South Wales it would, under the
legislation now proposed, reduce him to the
level of the clairvoyant who undertakes, in the
columns of the evening press, to diagnose all
complaints in a trance for 2s. Gd.
* #
The one thing which the public desires is
that, when it goes in search of a qualified prac-
titioner or an unqualified practitioner, it
should be able to get the article it is looking
for without any possibility of deception.
The Medical Bill undertakes, distinctly and in
so many words, to fill this want, and in so
doing it utters a glaring and wilful lie. A
qualified physician, so far as the public are
concerned, is merely a man who has
acquired a certain amount of medical know-
ledge and who can produce satisfactory evidence
from some body fitted to judge of his capabili-
ties, that he possesses such knowledge. So
long as this one point is settled beyond dispute,
people care not one solitary straw whether
he advertises or does not advertise, whether he
practises homeeopathy, hydropathy, or mes-
merism in addition to his other pursuits,
whether he consults with homoeopathists
or hydropathists, whether he believes in
Mattei’s cancer cure or Koch’s consump-
tion specific or any other secret or non-
secret remedy or device; and when any
Medical Council asserts that a qualified
doctor, because he treads on these old profes-
sional fads, is unqualified, it thereby utters a
malignant falsehood. Homoeopathy was the
first beginning of a great and beneficent revolu-
tion in medical science ; it wiped out the old
school of Thugs who bled and blistered their
patients and filled them up with oceans of
nefarious drugs; and the spectacle of ten
nominees claiming authority to practically
abolish homoeopathy in New South Wales is an
act of ignorant intolerance and one worthy
of the old days of the Inquisition. Hydro-
pathy has performed so many undoubted
cures that the demand put forward by
the mouldy pill-mongers- of the Legislative
Council for authority to put their official ban
upon this branch of medical science is as
grotesque as the demand of a worm for permis-
sion to put an extinguisher on a star. The one
point about the Medical Bill which admits of
no possible doubt is that it is not intended in
any sense as a protection for the XRiblic, but
solely to make the medical profession a close
corporation for the exclusive benefit of its own
members. As a conspicuous example of this
any proviso that a physician or a suraeon might
be disqualified for drunkenness, and particu-
larly for drunkenness while in attendance on a
patient, has been cheerfully expunged. A
surgeon, therefore, may be habitually drunk
while on duty, and thereby mangle and
hideously vivisect his clients with impunity—
they are only the general public, and
the general public, except as a means
of obtaining fees, doesn’t matter. But the
surgeon who is strictly sober and highly
qualified and who puts an advertisement in a
newspaper shall be straightway abolished and
falsely declared to be a quack, for the adver-
tisement is contrary to the “ dignity of the pro-
fession,” and the Medical Council is to be
created to uphold that and to let all other
things slide.
Black Queensland.
Whilst Queensland under Samuel Griffith
is preparing to re-embark in the Kanaka slave-
trade, a few facts gleaned from her own blood-
stained records may arrest the attention and
arouse the conscience of white Australia. The
ships Ceara, Lizzie, Hopeful, Forest King,
Heath and Sybil were busy during the year
1884 procuring cheap and reliable labour for
the Queensland sugar plantations. In slave-
trade slang, they were “ blackballing. ” Each
ship flew the British flag and carried an
agent accredited by the Queensland Govern-
ment. By this we know that they were
not engaged in the slave-trade proper, be-
cause slavery cannot exist under the British flag.
Just about this period, for some reason of its
own, the Queensland Government was on “the
virtuous lay,” and a horrible suspicion entered
its mind—and was duly advertised to a vir-
tuous world—that there was a bare possibility
that a savage of the South Sea Islands, who
had no idea beyond sleeping “ with his
head in the shade and his feet in the
sun,” might not correctly understand the
exact legal meaning of the agreement which
he was supposed to have entered into.
Exeter Hall having been duly advised, the
Queensland Government started to work off the
attack of virtue by the appointment of a Royal
Commission “ to enquire into the circumstances
under which labourers have been introduced
into Queensland from New Guinea and other
Islands,” etc. The Commission enquired and
reported that every man of them—62s—had
been kidnapped ; and they incidentally found
out other things which will be set forth more or
less briefly in this article. The people of Queens-
land were horrified at the disclosures ; the poor
kidnapped wretches—or so many of them as
had not already escaped through the portals of
death—were sent back with a certain amount
of theatrical display to their islands; and the
people of Queensland solemnly, by Act of
Parliament, declared that on 31st December,
1890, the hateful traffic should absolutely come
to an end for ever.
• # #
This Royal Commission consisted of three
members : —Mr. F. J. Buukland, M.L.A. for
Bulimba—the seat for which two candidates
(one white, one black) are now scram-
bling; W. Kinnaird Rose, and Mr. Mil-
man, now Stamp Commissioner. They were
all three the abject worshippers of Griffith,
and he has ever since accepted, or affected to
accept, all their statements as gospel. The trio
started on their travels and examined the 1
brought to Queensland by those six slm, , s
lather those of them who were left alive •TT 1 '
lime. The labours of the Commission' 1 *" l(i
somewhat lightened by the little circunwi"^ 0
that before they got to the plantations , a * Vce
154 per cent, of the “ cheap and °
lost all chance of ever seeing their is'an.l 1 ' ll(
again. They were dead. The total im!T*
brought had been 025. Of these 97 j ui 1 '° l>
beyond their troubles. Eight voyages' j fc
had been made by these ships, the Ceari'- 1
the Lizzie having each made two. The' foll' U
ing table gives the percentages of deaths “°"
the plantations ” of the poor savages b,onaU
to Queensland by these ships in eight trips ti
separate trips being indicated by the number
one and eight:— tls
No. 1. —24.3 per 100 in 0:10 year
No. 2. 9.5 ~ 100 ~ ~
No. 3.-10.0 ~ 100 in ten months
No. 4.—10.0 ~ 100 in eight months
No. 5. — 11.0 ~ 100 in seven months
No. 0. —16.2 ~ 100 in four months
No. 7. 9.5 „ 100 in three anil a-half months
No. 8. —20.3 ~ 100 in two and a-half months *
It would appear to have been a fortunate c i
cumstancc that the Commissioners were i/t
longer delayed in getting at the No. S crowd
It 20.3 per cent, could get away in two and
bait months it is clear that in a few more monti ■
there would have been none left to testify t*
their special fitness for plantation life. * j?
would be an interesting problem to calcuht
the chances of life if these liappy “ cam ,
cutters ” had been put to some kind of work for
which they were not specially fitted by nature
But, perhaps, this—as Hamlet would say-were
to consider too curiously.
* * #
The Commissioners expressed their opinion
as to the methods of recruiting employed durin»
these eight voyages as follows : 0
No. I.—Our opinion is that all the recruits brought h v
the Ceara on this voyage wore seduced aboard on
falsa pretences; that the nature of their eima-vnwiits
were never fully explained to them ; that they” had little
or no comprehension of the kind of work t hey had to
perform ; and that the period for which they agreed to
come was in no single instance three years. “
No. 2.-We are of opinion that not one of the labourers
brought by the Lizzie on this voyage agreed when
recruited, to serve and remain in Queensland for three
years; that the nature of their engagements was never
clearly explained to or understood by them, and that the
method of recruiting was cruelly deceptive and altogether
illegal. 0
No. 3.—Our opinion is that a system of deliberate fraud
was practised iu engaging all the recruits duriiw the
voyage; that their engagements were not explained to
them in any sense approximately correct; and that none
of them believed they had agreed to remain and serve in
Queensland for three years.
No. 4. On a review of the wliole evidence as to re-
cruiting on this voyage of tire Lizzie, we are of opinion
that, while some of the natives were forcibly kidnapped
all of them were allured 011 board by false statements’
that the nature of the engagements to which they sub-
sequently attached their marks was deliberately mis-
represented to them ; and that they had no clear under-
standing they were coming to Queensland to work on a
sugar plantation for three years.
No. 5. We are of opinion that none of the recruits on
board the Hopeful were lawfully recruited, and that not
one understood ho had engaged to remain and serve in
the colony for three years.
No. C.—We are of opinion that the attempts made to
explain the nature of the engagements to the recruits,
both at their islands and at the port of arrival, were
wholly inadequate ; that the engagements were not fully
understood by the recruits, and that none of them appre-
ciated that the term of service for which they had left
their homos was three years.
No. 7.—We are of opinion that all the recruits brought
by the Forest King were decoyed on board under false
pretences; that the nature of their agreement was nevi r
explained to them; and that none of them understoid
they were to work on a sugar plantation for any period,
much less for three years.
No. 8. —Our opinion is that recruits brought by the
Heath were enticed on board under false pretences; that
the nature of their engagements was never satisfactorily
explained to them ; and that none of them comprehended
they were coming to Queensland tc wc<k on a sugar
plantation for three years.
* * #
“Iu order to secure labourers,” the report
says, “the principal device of the recruiting-
agent would seem to have been an appeal to the
cupidity of the savage. He displayed a tempt-
ing array of tomahawks, knives, tobacco, and
calico—in fact, those articles most coveted by
the inhabitants of the islands of the southern
seas The love of home of these
islanders amounts to a passion, and the recruit-
ing-agents had to overcome dislike to practical
exile by assurances that they would not be
absent for any length of time. . . . Even
under the most favourable circumstances the
natives had very little conception of the real
purpose for which they were invited on board
or engaged to go on the trip to Queensland.”
F6or creatures —children of an enfeebled, dying
race—what else could they do when trapped by
Christian cunning in the service of Christian
greed ? When the poor, frightened wretches on
board the Ceara found themselves “in deep
water ” they began to talk among themselves
and cried. The boys on the Lizzie, on hearing
that they had to work on sugar-plantations for
an extended period, wept bitterly. In the
hands of their Christian taskmaster they felt
themselves as helpless as the rabbit in the folds of
the anaconda. “ They seemed,” says the report,
“ to have accepted whatever the ‘ big Govern-
ment master ’ said as the inevitable, and their
only resource was to go below and cry.” In
too many instances it was the cry of the broken
heart never to be healed.
* # •
How some of these broken-hearted children
of the South Seas were “recruited” may be
imagined by the following word-picture, taken
almost verbatim from the report of the Royal
Commissioners :
The Hopeful then stood over to Ferguson Island ot
Hilliwow. Several canoes came out to trade with the
Ship. Two boats were lowered. In the first was M'Neil
(coxswain), Preston, Harry, Jack, and Alec ; and in the
second Barney Williams at the helm, Rogers, Charley,
and two Teste Island hoys. When the boats were lowered
the canoes were turned shorewards, upon which chase
was given, M'Neil directing his attention to one contain-
ing eight natives, and Williams to another with six or
seven in it. M'Neil was unable to overtake that whi< n
he was pursuing, and he stood up in his boat and fired at
the canoe. The native who was steering was struck at
the back of the neck ; the bullet came out at ins throat,
and striking the man next to him on his left shoulder, the
latter fell overboard and sank. The steersman fell in the
canoe dead. All the other occupants of the canoe leaped
into the water. The canoe was overtaken, caught hold ot
by Jack and cut with a tomahawk by M'Neil, who then
directed his crew to pick up the natives that were swimming
about in the water. Four were so rescued, and to prevent
escape, placed beneath the thwarts of the boat, while two
were believed to have reached the shore by swimming. In
the meantime, Williams had been encouraging his crew to
pull smartly, so as to catch up with the canoe containing
the six or seven natives. The latter made for a reel
which had only a foot or two of water on it, hut hefoie


, it the canoe was cut by Williams, and the
rC lives "as usual, took to the sea. A rifle was fired, and
II Islander shot; five and a small hoy were picked up by
n l6 boat. One of the rescued islanders jumped overboard
“) e boat, whereupon Williams followed him with a
i °.'e knife in his hand. As the islander was coining up
U Hie reef Williams cut the poor wretch’s throat, and
i° M auk into deep water. The boat was pulled up to the
IC f'from which Williams leapt into it. The tw o boats
fL ii joined company, and the little hoy, being of no use
recruit, was cast adrift on two cocoanuts, which
aS <rc tied together and pinned under his arms. The little
J'j . was 'seen to s'ip from the cocoanuts, and was
i'ned in me surf. The canoe cut by McNicil had not
(l i { It contained the Indy of the steersman. Williams
SU fc his head off, and the mutilated remains were thrown
C '-prtnard. Tnere were now four natives in each boat,
°i ~e i under the thwarts to prevent escape, and in this
f shion they were brought to the Hopeful, from which
shots fired had been heard aud the smoke of the
■ ties seen. Williams, it was. also observed, changed his
I'-ousers as soon as he came on hoard, and hung those he
h d taken off on the rigging. As the Hopeful was
I oarin' l ' away from Hiliwow, a woman in a canoe paddled
it to "the ship and cried after it, but no heed was given
° l | iel . xiio eight natives thus “ recruited ” were not per-
litted to go on deck for two days. The Commissioners sum
'iD the history of this cruise of the Hopeful as “one long
•ecoitl of deceit, cruel treachery, deliberate kidnapping,
and cold-blooded murder.” The number of human beings
‘ , 10ge lives were sacritled during the recruiting can never
be accurately known. In addition to the two men killed
. Manama,'for which the recruiting agent M’Nk.il, and
Willi ams (boatswain) were tried before and condemned
in the Supreme Court, and in regard to which cases it is
needless for us here to enlarge further than to say that
the stories narrated to us more than confirmed the fads
brought out at the public trial—there is in our estimation
abundant evidence of the commission of many other
murders. The inhuman slaughter of the natives of
Hiliwow was amply corroborated by six or seven
witnesses. Anything more heartrending we have never
heard or seen than (he tale told by the father of the
drowning of his little hoy, or the horror depicted on
Wvxkl’a’s eye, and on his face, as he described the doing
to an atrocious death of the boy on the reef. There are
sonic little discrepancies as to the names of the boys who
were killed in a particular manner, but the identification
of persons must have been almost impossible when the
witnesses themselves were diving and swimming in a
broken sea to escape. All, however, were at one as to
(be facts of the shooting and throat-cutting.
The Commissioners avlio inquired into the
Hopeful case Avere the mere creatures of
Griffith, and some of the evidence at the trial
Avas as nearly palpable perjury as could be Avell
imagined, hut, even leaving the Hopeful
entirely out of the case, there is sufficient to
condemn the Kanaka trade for ever. And if
the Hopeful story was a lie, Griffith (who let
the condemned Schofield die in gaol, ironed)
sticks to it till this day, and Avhile he does,
his black-labour policy is an insult to his own
understanding.
# * *
Every effort seems to have been made
by the Avhite slaver—it is immaterial whether
or not he called himself a Christian—to make
the poor savage the instrument of his own
enslavement. On the Ceara’s voyage to Queens-
land the recruiting-agent told the recruits he
Avas a “very good fellow : good to the boys,”
and that Avhen big felloAv master came up and
said “ You stop three years?” they Avere to say
“All right.” On the Hopeful’s voyage to
Queensland Cago, an interpreter to the Com-
missioners, Avas again schooled as to Avhat he
was to say to the Polynesian Inspector on
arrival in the colony. He Avas to declare that
there had been no kidnapping, no shooting, and
that all the hoys had come willingly to work iu
Queensland for three years. “ The Inspector at
■Townsville,” says the report, “seems to have
taken for granted that if the recruits held up
three fingers when the interpreters spoke to
them, they understood they were engaged for
three years. As a matter of fact, in too many
instances the three fingers Avere hold up because
the recruits had been previously schooled so to
do, or indicative of a belief that they Avere about
to work on a plantation for three moons.” The
most deliberately significant instance of this
“ deliberate preparatory coaching ” is, however,
related in connection Avith voyage No. 2, Lizzie
to ToAvnsville. The report says
The whole of the recruits brought by the Lizzie during
this vdyage are employed at Hamleigh plantation. When
the Commission visited Hamleigh, the manager, Mr. A. S.
Cowley, .suggested that we should only examine two or
three of the boys, who could speak very good English, as
fair representatives of the remainder. This the Commis-
sioners consented to do, reserving their judgment as to
their future course of procedure. The first boy presented
was Diion, Avho had quite a pat story that he had been
recruited to “work sugar Queenl’d for three years.”
During the examination of the next two witnesses, there
was such evident signalling between Sandfly, who was
outside the room, aud the oveseer aud the witnesses,
that the room was ordered to he cleared by the Commis-
sion. Dixon, Sandfly and Driikka were employed as
mt rpreters iu the examination of a few subsequent boys,
hut it was evident, from manner and speech, that a pre-
pared story was being told. Those were the only cases
in which witnesses declared that they had been recruited
at their islands for three years. At the close of our
examination of the Hamleigh labourers, which lasted a
week, Dixon and Sandfly appeared and withdrew their
siatemenis, which had been made under fear of Mr.
Cowley, and said that they had boon recruited for only
three moons.
Fhis is mainly interesting because Mr. A. S.
Oowr.KY, the smooth-spoken little man with an
open countenance, besides being the head man
"I the black-labour party in Queensland, is a
Minister of the CroAvn in that most extraor-
dinary province. To him mainly Avill fall the
task of helping the Griffith Parliament
hito the belief that a handful of traitors
111 a played-out Legislative Assembly may be
taken as “fair representatives of the remainder ”
of the people.” Mr. Cowley and the new
black-labour party in Queensland appear to
have brute-force—the only thing that slave-
trade ethics ask for—on their side to-day, but the
people of Queensland have at least as much in-
telligence as the Royal Commission, and they
also will reserve their “ judgment as to their
future course of procedure .”
Is Honesty the Best Policy?
Editor Bulletin, —For about twelve months
flow the Victorian papers have, Aveek by Aveek,
chronicled fresh eases of fraud and dishonesty,
and after following these cases up through the
Police Court, the Sessions, the receiving gaol,
aud finally the country gaol or the penal estab-
lishment at Pentridge, avc are compelled to
believe that, to the offender of a certain species,
honesty is the biggest kind of folly. I have
investigated a number of cases, and find that,
111 nine out of ten, providing the offender goes
about the affair in a cool, calm, business-like
fashion, the proceeding pays a satisfactory
dividend—as a matter of policy it is eminently
successful.
• * *
There are a fcA» essentials to a successful
fraud. Firstly, it is desirable, though not
Recessary, that the offender shall hold a good
position, both commercially and socially ; if he
he a member in good standing of some church
so much the better. Secondly, the amount of
his “ haul ” must be in no ease under £2OOO,
and that is cutting it very fine ; if he can
run it up to £200,000 so much the bolter.
Thirdly (this is only in case he is arrested), he
must have one or two influential friends who
must be able to draAV upon the proceeds of his
“ haul.” With these three postulates it is
possible iu Victoria to-day to commit a fraud
of almost any magnitude, and to escape practi-
cally without punishment and Avith the pro-
ceeds of the said fraud. Even in the event of
the big offender ultimately coming down with a
sickening thud, he gains, all the way through,
an amount of consideration that is never
extended to the uneducated and“irrespectable”
criminal. By A'arious indirect means it is
possible to get one’s trial postponed until it lias
a chance to come oft' before a lenient Judge ; it
is possible to interview and come to an under-
standing Avith jurymen; it may be possible to
call and see the Governor of the gaol where the
prisoner is confined, should he he unfortunate
enough to come to that pass ; it is possible to
interview Avarders with very satisfactory
results—both to Avarders and prisoner. The
medical adviser to the gaol Avill often be
found to be “amenable.” In fact, in one
word, the present judicial and penal system of
Victoria is a huge fraud. To the man who,
being friendless and poor, commits an offence,
it means generally lifelong imprisonment, perse-
cution and misery ; but to him who possesses
the essentials mentioned above, it may fairly be
described as a picnic, a good joke.
# # #
Here are a feAV instances. Butler, ex-
registrar of titles, defrauded the people of
Victoria of large sums, and was aAvarded seven
years’ “hard.” He is at present, and Avill
remain so, governor’s clerk at Pentridge ; he
dresses differently from other prisoners (no
knickers or stockings), has another prisoner
assigned to wait on him, to make up his bed —■
Avhich includes a mattress—clean his boots,
brush his clothes, etc.; he sleeps in a room, not
iu a cell, by himself, is addressed as “ Mister ”
Butler, and is, in fact, treated quite as a
gentleman should be. About the middle of
last year lavo prisoners arrived at Castlemaine
gaol. One had, as a clerk, embezzled £l3 from
his employers at Ballarat, and received fifteen
months, the stolen money having been returned
before the trial by his Avidowed mother; the
other Avas Edward Mirams, avlio received
twelve months for embezzlement. Upon bis
brother’s release, Edward Mirams petitioned the
Executive Council for a remission of his sentence,
which Avas promptly reduced to six months.
The clerk didn’t get any remission. He had no
influential brother—only a poor old mother,
Avho didn’t know her Avay round. I could give
many instances of Avell-connected or distin-
guished prisoners avlio pass the time quite
pleasantly. Charles Rivers Allpress holds
the position (one can hardly call it a situation)
of doctor’s assistant at Pentridge ; his hands
are never soiled by such a degrading thing as
Avork. Gentlemen avlio hold these responsible
positions, mind you, see the daily papers, the
latest novels, &c., smoke cigarettes, and I Avill
Avager Mr. Allpress is by this time quite a
connoisseur in the matter of Avines and spirits.
Their gas is not turned off at eight, nor have
they to sleep on the floor of the cell Avith an
allowance of four “ blankets ” in summer and
five in Avinter, as has Bill Smith, housebreaker,
or Tom Larrikin, pocket-picker.
* # *
These arc representative cases, not isolated
ones. To come doAvu to recent times. George
N. Taylor, Avho is generally considered to have
made away Avith nearly £lOO,OOO, some of
which he Avill, no doubt, be able to realise
Avhen he comes out, received two years hard
labour. He Avill bo out, so far as his pre-
sent sentence goes, about August 23, 1893.
He Avill probably go to Pentridge, Avhcre ho
Avill be kept in separate confinement about three
months, after Avhich he Avill probably be put to
some light clerical work. Last Aveek James
Richards was charged, at the City Court with
having no A’isihlc means of support. Constable
Brennan stated that he had seen him loafing
round and that he Avas a bad character generally,
and then Richards, avlio had enjoyed just a
month’s liberty after having served a two years’
sentence for housebreaking, Avas forthwith dis-
patched by Mr. Craib, J.P., to Pentridge for
another two years ; after the expiration of
Avhich he will probably bo dispatched for
another two years, and so on ad infinitum.
N. B. — Richards will not be out till March
’94, and don’t you forget it. This offender,
Avho is described by Mr, Craib as a “ most
dangerous man Ukljc at large,” will he sent to
the quarries—-after doing some time separately
—where he Avill possibly get an eye blown out
or an arm torn off, in Avhich case he Avill
doubtless be less dangerous than formerly.
There arc exceedingly ugly Avhispers going
round Melbourne in connection with Taylor’s
sentence. If there be the slightest ground for
these, then the province is indeed “ on her
knees.”
* * *
As regards the Victorian gaols, too much
poAver lies in the hands of the Governors
and the Visiting-Justice. Should prisoner
gain the favour of the former official, he spends
much less time in separate confinement, and
is subsequently much better treated than
one avlio has the misfortune to offend
him, though botli may be serving equal
sentences for similar offences. The Visit-
ing-Justice is too often unreasonable. (Very
mild !) Fancy adding 12 months to a young
man’s sentence for attempting suicide, as was
done at Pentridge not long ago ! Great God !
think of punishiny a man who wants, avlio
is determined, to take his oavu life! And
again a Avoman at Castlemaine was in
January this year sentenced by a Visit-
ing J.P. to three Avceks solitary confinement on
bread and water (no Avork except to count the
bricks in four bare Avails), and 12 hours in a
dark cell underground, for insulting and in-
decent language to a warder. It is satisfactory
to learn that the woman has not yet lost her
reason. This three Aveeks (as is all solitary) is
cumulative, and entails a three weeks extension
of the original sentence. By the Avay, most
persons would be very much astonished, if not
shocked, could they learn the number of men
avlio yearly pass through the observation and
padded cells of the various gaols, driven mad
by the isolation, Avhich is aAvful and terrible to
a man of Aveak brain or a nervous temperament.
* * *
To sum up, Avithout the three essentials men-
tioned before honesty undoubtedly is the best
of all possible “policies,” but given these three
it is easy to make fraud of all descriptions pay
a much better dividend than the depositors are
getting out of the “ krouk ” building societies
and land banks. And it is the business of the
people of Victoria to see that this anomaly is
remedied.—Yours, etc., J.B.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Bald-Headed Nation.
According to recent advices from England,
that much-advertised pearl-stealer, Mrs. Ethel
Osborne, now doing nine months in gaol for
perjury, is suffering from the complication of
complaints which invariably descends on the
well-connected person when in trouble. She
is afflicted with hysteria and fits ; also,
she is about to be confined; and further,
she refuses to take food, is in a comatose con-
dition, and is in danger of becoming insane, and
on top of all these diseases it is announced that
she is “ sinking.” Therefore, the usual efforts
are being made to procure her release, and it is
believed in many quarters that Home Secretary
Matthews —probably the most flinty-hearted
hangman, when any of the “ lower orders ” are
concerned, who has held office in England
for half-a-century—will remit her sentence. It
would seem that “ the great heart of England”
feels deep sympathy for Mrs. Osborne. Her
crime, it is true, was about the meanest and
most gratuitous thing in the way of perjury
that has turned up in recent times. She robbed
her friend in the first place, and, having done
this, she deliberately attempted to ruin the
lady she had injured in law-costs and damages,
and to brand her as a slanderer and her
husband as a ruined gambler and a thief.
Her case was worse than that of the
Ticiiborne Claimant, even with that gen-
tleman’s assertion that he had seduced his
cousin thrown in with his other iniquities, or
alleged iniquities, and yet he got fourteen years
instead of only nine months. But the Claimant
was middle-aged, corpulent, and not beautiful,
and therefore the country didn’t sympathise
with him to any extent worth mentioning, nor
does it sympathise with anyone of the hundred
other perjurers who are doing from three to
seven-year sentences for offences which, by
comparison with Mrs. Osborne’s, are trivial in
the extreme. It is the British nation that is
suffering from hysteria and epileptic fits over
this interesting prisoner—not the prisoner her-
self. The two really noteworthy features in
the case are the criminal’s unlucky husband
and her unborn child. The latter will be
haunted all through life by the recollection that
it was born within the stone walls of a gaol,
and no State should fasten such a stigma on
any citizen if it can reasonably be avoided. But
in this instance the infant seems to have been
deliberately used as an element to excite sym-
pathy. Mrs. Osborne could easily have lain
low in her safe refuge on the Continent until
after her confinement ; the British authorities
showed no desire to demand her extradition,
and the Spanish Government assuredly had no
idea of expelling her from its territories.
Apparently she came back when she did
simply that her condition might excite
the sentimentality of the nation, and arouse
the finer feelings of the Judge, and the
result has answered all expectations. As
to Captain Osborne, he has acted as
might be expected either from a gentleman
of the noblest character, or from an exceed-
ingly astute man of the world who knew
exactly how to make the best of a bad situation.
He, no doubt, took the course he did from the
highest motives, but, in any case, it was the
oxdy course which promised to pay a reasonable
dividend. The whole case is an evidence that
the Anglo-Saxon is getting washy in his old
age ; the attitude of England in general is not
that of a country which lias a deep and reliable
sense of justice, but rather that of an unctuous
old bald-head in the front row at a leg-show.
Mrs. Osborne is the leg-show, and the entire
nation is the bald-headed old party in the front
row, and it feels benevolent just as the old man
does when the ballet is in progress, and for
pretty much the same reason.
The following, which purports to be a message
from a converted New Guinea nigger to the
people of England, is published in the North
Queensland Herald —the still, small voice of
the poor heathen grovelling in a far-distant land
and offering his loyal cocoanut to Victoria : —
Our forefathers did not come here. What is the reason
that 1 am here ? Only one reason, God’s word : we now
travel and are at peace. Another reason is this: if we
•do wrong the Governor and his servants have taught us,
and we are now a little better. Our forefathers were not
wise, they were in the dark ; now the men of Britain have
come to live in our villages, we are glad and live at peace
with one another. Now you correct us for our misdeeds,
we are living peaceably and travel empty-handed. We
New Guineans are glad, our stomachs are good. Victoria
has taken possession of our country, it is very good, she
alone is powerful and strong.
It is a pitiable and abject thing when a hypo-
critical missionary sits down to solemnly concoct
tootsy-wootsy drivel like this and pass it off as
the effort of a massive savage two yards long,
and armed with a big spiked club. Wherever
the missionary goes there always arises some
horrid narrative of a huge, elderly cannibal in
a pinafore and a feeding-bottle, who sent a
slobbering baby-message to Queen Victoria ;
and it makes ns feel sick every time we come
across it.
♦
“ Savage ” writes us as follows : —
Dear B,—The flogging question, as carried on at
present, has two sides only. There is a Total Abstinent e
and a Yell Extortion party. Why not a Mediumistic
Faction? An ordinary hoy merely whimpers under in
ordinary caning. The “shrieking blasphemies” of the
triangksare no more known in schools than the “cat”
itself. How strange it is that the advocates of whipping
should never retreat to such far more tenable ground ?
You say the body of Europe (Russia being too barbaious
to count) has abolished the Rod in toto. I submit—
first, that you ignore the Boy Element. You say,
“No man,” etc. The male youth of Germany, etc.,
is legally hideahle or not. I don’t know. Bub
I suspect. And by thrashing the child you may,
possibly, reduce at once the amount and the gravities
of adult crime, and so be less impelled to what I will
admits if you like, to lie extremity. Secondly, an equiva-
lent may exist in severer discipline. Thirdly, certain
abominations (larrikinism) known to us are far less com-
mon there, and again there is less occasion for severity.
The subject is like that of suicide. The firmest
opponents of self-destruction must admit exceptions to
the rule. Or, like that of the capital penalty, which is
really unarguable in the face of European armaments.
So long as a million of legally innocent men can bo
put to mutual slaughter over practically nothing,
it seems slightly inconsistent to attack the execution
of a few hundreds convicted of foul murder. When you
say “At present gaol is a farce,” you strengthen the
position of the oorporalists. This, too, is loose. Darling-
hurst, no doubt, contains those who have hardly known
as good meals outside, certainly not as good beds, or the
luxury of being free from vermin. Some of them might
he glad of such winter quarters, even with a couple of
“ dozen ” attached. In their case, no doubt, the humor-
ous element enters. But it is not so with the stockman,
who was tempted by the rich man’s racer. And not so
with the bank-director. And when is the prison system
to ho altered? When is the age of moral suasion
to the law-breaker to commence? Where are the
signs? Not very visible in a country where the vice of
gambling has increased eighty-fold in eight yeais
(if the figures quoted in New South Wales Assembly by
Mr. Lamb are correct). Then, in default of a rational
mode of confinement, why not try a plan founded on that
humane idea of child-government, which limits pain to
the hounds of self-control? Then, as to “ degradation.”
By British law boys can be birched up to sixteen years.
But will anyone say that a patient of a week past sixteen
is bound to he morally injured? The distinction must he
arbitary. Some infants are more sensitive this way than
their fathers. And is there no shame in being shaven
and shorn, and sent to bed at sunset ? Bah! Boys don’t
feel shy at being “licked,” but at having had to “holler.”
I was once in charge of some young hoys, and, of course,
had to punish somehow. For bullying bis junior (after
being warned), I gave a 10-year-old his choice between a
specified “ spanking ” and bed straight after supper. lie
elected the flesh ! I thought awhile, and became an
adherent of the short and simple in strict moderation.
+
The chronic or incurable preacher is the same
in all ages and under all circumstances. The
other day, in the columns of the London Times,
not three but forty preachers accumulated
themselves, and published over their signatures
a joint and several document entitled a
“Declaration of the Truth of the Holy Scrip-
ture.” There is something grotesque in the
idea of forty preachers writing to a newspaper
to guarantee the Lord, but evidently none of
them noticed the fact; the ordinary curate is a
dreadfully humourless animal. They didn’t
advance any reason for their statements, but
merely announced in a flat-footed, bald-headed
fashion that the Scriptures were true, and
signed their own ignoble cognomens of Smith
and Jones and the like, as the sole proof of
their assertion. They didn’t state how they
knew the facts of the case better than anyone
else, neither did they call any evidence to prove
their reliability. It evidently didn’t occur to
them that if the Scripture couldn’t stand with-
out their support, it wasn’t likely to stand any
better with it, or that the creed which has
lasted for nineteen centuries -was much less in
Avant of outside assistance than the parson who
only lasts for 40 years or thereabouts The
Avhole position was very much like forty worms
leaving a signed document behind them when
they died, setting forth that they had inspected
the Alps, and were prepared to guarantee them
as a reliable range of mountains and as being
all there. And having flopped down this heavy
declaration the forty proceeded to state, on their
own authority, that no one should question or
inquire into the truth of anything in the Bible
save in a proper spirit—in other words, when
anybody met Avith any statement in that volume
which he wouldn’t believe if he met it in any
other A'olume, he shouldn’t inquire into it unless
he had first made up his mind that he wouldn’t
believe anything Avhich he might discover in the
course of the inquiry. Then lhey wound up by
announcing that they—the forty preachers in
question —didn’t object to anybody using his
reasoning powers to cast light upon any state-
ments which he found in the Bible provided he
first accepted the absolute “ genuineness and
authenticity” of the “living oracles,” and
merely inquired into the meaning of their
Avords—if he felt any doubts about the words
themselves or the Avritcrs of them they—the
preachers aforesaid—Avould evidently fall on
him Avith a thud. And now it is to he hoped
that the Avhole business is settled. W hen 40
expounders Avrite to a paper to state that every-
thing is all right, from the beginning of all things
up to now, and from hoav till the end of
eternity, then the entire business ought to be
set tled for evermore.
♦
Matthias Larkin has been satisfactorily “put
through” on a first charge, and sentenced to
six years’ hard labour. The aAvful extent of
his defalcations made a “ miscarriage of justice”
impossible, hut Melbourne people will not soon
forget that Matthias’ influential friends Avould
have been ready to make good a £lO,OOO deficit,
anyAvay. So long as his robberies were sup-
posed to be limited to that trifle there was an
active conspiracy (warmly approved by a section
of the press) to whitewash clear old Matt, and
keep that respectable sinner out of gaol. Up
to £15,000, perhaps, the felony Avould have
found Avilling compounders. Which is Avorth
considering in connection Avith the circumstance
that one Hastings, an English M.P., has, in the
ordinary course of things, gone to gaol for
seven years for embezzling that same amount of
trust-money. The reader is at liberty to put
tAvo and two together, and deduce his own
conclusions.
Quote : “ When the Rev. Hookham
Snivey, beneficed at <£looo a year, on the ad vow-
son of some Lord Ailesbnry, melts the congrega-
tion with Ids farewell sermon, ere removing from
a billet with a paltry .£BOO, how refreshing is tl o
thought that lie preaches off a lithograph MS.,
furnished for half-a-crown by ex-Rev. Boozingti n
Gradgrind, kicked out for drunkenness, but
flourishing in London as a sermon-maker.”
In his “ Souvenirs,” Ernest Renan relates
that one (f the Rothschilds some years ago in the
Jewish Consistory was warmly supporting the
doctrine of the immortality of the sold. An
erudite Israelite ( f the old school, in telling Renan
of this, added by way of reflection, “Can you
conceive such a tiling? A man of such wealth to
want to have his share of the Kingdom of Heaven
into the bargain. Surely he might leave that to
poor devils like you and me.” M. Renan considers
the “Souvenirs” his vwynum opus.


[?]
SIC Macquarie street North, Sydney, March 30, 1592
M V DKAR MOORAUI.NOA,
herd Jersey has purchased a charming \ ilia at Coogee
Bay, which he intends “ to have to hold” ostensibly as a
seaside residence, hut actually, I should surmise, as
another hiding-place away from people, where lie-can link
now and again after hauling the flag down at Government
House:
file vtoe-regal purchase of a Coogce residence will give
t.iat pioturesfiue bit of ocean scenery the social leg-up
that it sadly wants. Up to now Coogee lias been a scat-
tered suburb punctuated with small cottages “ to be let,
furnished, in which stylish, golden-haired females suc-
ceed one another at short intervals and pose in operatic-
looking tea-gowns on cane verandah-lounges ; and I have
been shown more barmaids on the drive by the beach on
Saturday afternoon than I could see anywhere else in a life-
time. Coogee is where every pretty chorus-girl is taken
in a cab on Sunday— Mister Deeming, by the way, took
bis Bathurst inamorata to Coogee-but Society has
shunned it like a plague. The Governor’s cottage lias
alteicd all that, you know. A oiv it will he the correct
caper to be seen in the neighbourhood, as if yeti had been
calling on the Jerseys, my dear !
Ondit that the recent marriage of a N.S.W. society
till and a lady-killing divored (who was dispensed with
by his first wife for dalliance with a Bananaland girl) was
a very naked ceremony indeed. Instead of the troop of
fashionable guests the social position of the lady
seemed to warrant, only two lonely hansoms drove up—
the first containing the bride, gotten up in a stylish
walking-costume, and the bridegroom ; and the second,
the best man, a chum of the bridegroom. Without (he
moral support of a single female friend, (he bride faced
the music, and the best man—who was father, mother,
bridesmaids, and wedding-party combined—gave her
away. But when the trio surged into the vestry it was
found that the Pooh-Bahish elasticity of even this com-
prehensive person wasn t equal to the legal requirements
of the case, for he couldn’t very well be two witnesses at
once. At last, one of the waiting cabmen was summoned,
and, after ho had laboriously signed his name in an
aroma of horse and tobacco, the deed was done. An hour
or so after this dubious ceremony the bride’s brother tore
up to tlie sacred pile and demanded the certificate of his
sister’s marriage, and then it suddenly dawned on the
unsuspecting clergyman that he had been assisting at a
cool and deliberate elopement, and—hut that is really all
the story of the sudden sqcicty match.
The Fiench colony and a number of other people—in
Sydney had quite a night out the other night, when
Commander Poydenot entertained a host of guests, in-
cluding Mayor and Mrs. Manning, Dr. Laure, Mr. and
Mrs. Adet, MM. Wiegand, Kowalski, Poussard, Herr and
Madame Kellennann, etc., at an “at home” on board the
magnificent Messageries-Maritimes mail-boat, Annand
Bdhic. The vessel is a gorgeous vision of painted ceilings,
white and gold furniture, and a truly Parisian plethora
of gilding, and she presented a festive spectacle with the
crowd of gaily-dressed women butterflying about in the
saloons and listening to the music, which was excellent.
Perhaps the most enjoyable numbers were Madame
Kelletuwrm’s “Caprice Espagnol" (Gottschalk), which
was rapturously applauded ; Mrs. Vandeveer Greene’s
sweet warbling of a ballad; and Mous. Deslouis’ artistic
rendering of La Manola —but the whole programme
was sweet harmony. After the brief concert, dancing
was indulged in on deck, and ices and confectionery made
their appearance, and towards midnight most of the three
hundred guests departed. But a handful of intimates
remained, and were cheered by a French dish-soupe a
I'oi'jnonet aufromatje—Ma. stirrup-cup on their depar-
ture towards I a.m. Lord and Lady Jersey, accompanied
by their daughters and Lady Galloway, had lunch with
Captain Poydenot the other day on board the Annand
Baltic.
‘•‘■Life’s Rough Road: ” at Her Majesty’s didn’t seem to
bo a particularly stumpy track for (lie seraphs of the
cast, judging by the mu tiplicity of toilettes sported.
Watts-Phillips ran to dainty-looking cambric frocks; the
first of turquoise-blue with Louis coat trimmed with
white embroidery and blue siik, full vest of white silk,
and flat hat sentimentally running o’er w ith forget me-
nots. This poetic array was made w ilh the umbrella
skirt (which doesn’t mean, as scute ignorant man might
surmise, that the wearer can turn it up over her head-in
a shower of rain) but only that the back breadths (1
dilate fot the benefit of home dressmakers beyond the
horizon) are cut into umhrella-like quarters from four to
six in number, and gently sloped up to nothing at all at
the waist with very slim and swaggee effect. Watts-
Pbillips’ second gown waaa floral structure in blue, pinl .*
and green. Edith Bland played the airy female villain in
a brown frock built en tablier and trimmed with mush-
room brocade and Japanese gold thread; a tea-gown of
peacock-green silk and fawn brooatclle rather nicely
mingled, but I didn’t love the narrowing width of fawn
let in at the back—it was too fatally like a horse’s tail. In
tne third act a white silk dinner-dress was worn, the low-
cut bodice edged with white ostrich feathers, fan en
suite, and the garment would have been quite striking
if she could have only managed to keep the train
fiom corkscrewing. When a lady is followed by a twisted
I OH la o three yards long, she looks like some new-
fangled Chinese cracker with the wick hanging out
behind, lint I want to congratulate Miss Bland on her
facial make up. It was four inches deep all over, with
the mouth a crimson blob as if she had shone her fangs
with cherry tooth-paste and some of it had stuck, and the
c,\es were blackened to the verge of suggesting cold flat-
iions and beef steak externally. But it was all high art.
It was strict fidelity to nature to make a lady, who had
mauled a stage grey-beard in bis impetuous youth, turn
up about 30 years later looking as if she caked on her
blushing complexion in layers—wasn’t it ?
Sydney Licdertafel liedertnfeled for the Cist time in the
Centennial Hall on the 23rd ult. before a rather attentive
hut Lenten-sized crowd, with Judge and Lady Windeyer
-ml an olive-branch looking isolated in the leathern
c. aus of patronage which extended in two otherwise
unoccupied rows in the eastern balcony. There were
sci cial dresses on show that caught one’s eye for various
icasons. Mrs. S. A. Moss wore the handsomest turn out
in m\ ra.nirc of vision— a rich cream brocade worn with
osti ieh-fcalhers and diamonds. A rather pretiy girl in a
wondrous bodice with no visible sign of where she got
into it, spoilt it by allowing herself to he squired by a
blonde Johnny with a cruelly wiggy wig, which he
unwisely wore parted down the middle. It’s always the
patting that gives away a wig, and any young man who
hangs his hair on a nail when he goes to bed can take it
Horn me that it s best to wear your borrowed wool com lied
over like a lien if you don’t want the people behind to
know all about it. (I've noticed at least CO cunningly-
devised “ scalps ”in the dress-circle lately.) Mrs. Spald-
ing wore white Bengaline trimmed with gold braid; her
step-daughter in sulphur-green silk and white chiffon—
but a woman in a high-necked frock had trimmed it with
a broad band of scarlet for a collar, looking for all the
" 01 as s i* e had cut her jugular before starting.
As for what went on between the intervals, I think the
Cutticas (she in the cream satin gown she assisted the
Melbourne Liedertafel in last November) spoilt the duo
fiom Cavalleria llusticana ” —the piece de resistance of
the bill - by letting their unfamiliarity with the music get
the upper hand of them, and the duet had the effect of a
" res tling-match between the singers and the composer in
consequence. Under more auspicious circumstances
methinks the duo would become a decidedly bearab’e
infliction in the Roman tongue. The “ graceful dance ”
Horn Sullivan s “ Henry VIII. ” appealed to the house at
once, alas ! It is a dainty trifle only possible on strings,
but I will bet a hat that it’s at every soiree musicale
which Potts Point gives with its front windows open and
a piano screeching above pitch ; in the end we will dread
it worse than “ Annie Rooney.” The Liedertafel sang in
metronomical time as usual and modulated their lilt very
artistically in the part song “ Twilight ’’—but the tenors
lacked force and brightness all through. If a tenor really
is a disease this painstaking musical society would derive
great advantage from catching him bad.
The largely feminine committee of the Doll-and-Pln-
cushion contest, in aid of the Carington Convalescent
Hospital, announce, as a thrilling and welcome novelty in
connection with their show, that “a special room will be
provided where parcels can be left! ” Really some people
don’t know enough of human nature to be trusted out
alone! I would like to see people availing themselves of
the precious “room,” wouldn’t you? Those who pur-
chase at bazaars don’t generally want to keep their
expenditure a deep, dark secret, and rather than abandon
one parcel they would go from stall to stall laden like
packhorses. It is, in fact, de rigucur at fancy fairs, o
w hatever you call them, to go about 'a len down with odds
and ends, and I have seen a well-known Judge going down
the middle of the show with three feather-dusters and a
fire-screen in his hand which he wouldn’t have re-
linquished for anything. Indeed, so great is the mania to
appear as if breaking down under the burden of your
v isihle charities that people of large pretensions and
small means have been known to bring parcels in tin' r
pockets and then flourish them, when they' got inside, as
part of the day’s philanthropic expenditure! A room
to leave parcels in, forsooth ! I must break off here to
smile.
It is rather questionable policy, on Lady Blank’s port,
to visit the sins of the few on (he many—it is playing
ducks and drakes with those silken bonds, this sudden
vice regal withdrawal into inner shellncss as it were-
Because, you see, the “ loyal ” section of Australian
sassiety, which deemed it impossible to enjoy itself any-
where at all unless a vice-regal figurehead rose in the
midst thereof, is now discovering that enjoyable diver-
sions are quite possible without the gracious presence of
a British Potentate-which is a damaging discovery likely
to render the said B.?. actually, not theoretically,
superfluous in the near by and by. The last thing the
dear old mother country wants in Australia to find out
that when their Excellencies fail in the only State duty
left them-(which is to be bell-wether for the “classes”
in their moments of relaxation)-there is no perceptible
falling-off in the fun—and if Lady Blank isn’t careful
there will be no telegraphed, “ Well done, thou good and
faithful servant,” from Windsor Castle when she goes
home again.
Which reminds of the funny little habit the same
Gracious Personage has of only looking an inch beyond
her nose whenever she lucklessly finds herself in public.
I suppose she does it so as really not to see unpleasant
people who are bobbing right and left, hut it gives the
august lady a complicated expression —something between
short-sight and a squint-and the effect isn’t worth win-
ning. It would be far less wear-and-tear to her facial
features, if the lady picked out the least objectionable
people and returned their salutes— but if she prefers not.
to, it really is nobody’s business, is it? For my part, I
am always vastly amused at the finished discomfiture of
the smartly-dressed woman who aims a reverent inclina-
tion at those unseeing eyes—and then wilts visibly.
Harping still on the fascinating theme of V. 8., don’t
you often marvel at the cool assurance of the dying-to-hc-
society female whose fadeless plaint is that she was the
pet-lamb ef the Govrrnor’s-wife-hefore-lhe-piesenl “aid
since she went ”—; t w hieh point they sigh like ini.sm.d i -
stood angels, and, r f course, yon are new r mdo enotuili
to probe t hei r sorrow with leading questions. Bit-,
occasionally a snag rises to break the calm flow ef (heir
remarks, in the shape <f some jitihss f. male with a
remorseless mommy who eo’dly n veals that when the
Governor’s w ife In fore last was here the lady mmlioncd
at the prow of this paragraph was still gently pudding
of how good her predecessor in olliee was to her! I
w onder if dear Lady C. or darling Lady L. has the foggiest
idea of how many strange women whom she never collided
with, except officially, are sentimentalising in suburban
drawing-rooms over the hypothetical period when tin v
were individually “treated like a sister, my dear, at,
Government House?”
And I wonder, idly and briefly wonder, it a well-known
Sydney society man, who is received into the bosom of
Government House, quite remembers that at a certain
very fashionable Sydney hotel his name, coupled with
that of a very gladsome Gaiety girl, is written in full per
ipcdiuiu of a diamond ring on one of the front window-
panes? The cognomens of her dashing sparks arc noted
down, too, but they are not so socially curly-headed as
the gentleman in question, who makes me wonder why on
earth he didn’t send a glazier round to eliminate the
glass before everybody had read and sniggered at it ?
Monsieur D’Arc’s Fantoccini on view at Sydney Royal
Standard Theatre (gotten up with blue and crimson
draperies, pot plants, and mirrors to a wonderful degree
of smartness, by the way) arc certainly the most gifted
marionettes Sidney has ever thumped its approving
palms at, and their dressing and staging are tco dazzling
for words. Especially in the burlesque of “ Bluebeard ”
this is the time for Bluebeard, by the way—jewels and
tinsel and silks and satins are as plentiful as leaves on a
tree, and the transformation-scenes, which follow a
decidedly funny harlequinade, are genuinely “corusca-
ting,” and all that sort of thing. Above all, there is a
distinct flavour of Paris about the clever show and the
singing—jingles set to popular airs—is very good of its
kind. Every parent who has a deserving little Johnny
hungering and thirsting for an outing is sure to infest the
Fantoccini.
“ New Men and Old Acres,” at Criterion, introduced
Mrs. Molyncux—wife of Dr. Molyneux, lately of the P. & O.
Company—to a Sydney audience, which obviously liked
the lady. Mrs. M. is tall and fair, and walks the stage
like an artist, and if she only wouldn’t emphaticize every
second word her method would be very bearable—her
love-making being realistic enough to send a surge of old
remembrance over the soul of the apparently unfledged
d.e. seraph. “ Isn’t it just like the way one docs?” said
one rapturously, but unguardedly, to a chum the other
night when Mrs. M. dropped her head into Basil’s shirt-
front. Miss Romer was quite perfect as the worldly’
aristocrat with a hark strangely at variance with her Lite*
so to speak, and her dresses were in excellent taste, the
grey brocade and white silk garment, with bonnet of grey
tulle, pink roses, and diamond pins, worn in act 2>
especially. But how Mr. Anson (you can’t help watering
jour smile at his “ Bunter,” with a regretful tear that
we are going to lose our little Eccles) can look such a
sloping-shouldered slop-fitted scarecrow, is one of the
mysteries of theatrical metamorphosis.
Apropos theatres, men who take a party of ladies of un-
certain age to one of these should be careful not to reserve
chairs with numbers in any waj’ coinciding with the ages
of the women. Because the ushers are sure to shriek
them out as they pilot the party to their perches, and the
figures sometimes fit the the individuals like a glove. For
instance, at the Garrick, the other night, a man turned
up squiring a bevy of women (who didn’t look as if they
had come down in the last shower), and as they ranged
along the gangway with the eye of the house upon them
—“Thirty-seven to forty!” screamed the usher. I
wouldn’t have been one of them for the world.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Caster ton (Melb.) police district is
under Superintendent Drought.—
What’s in a name?
What’s in a thirst?
Drought ought to claim
Leave for a “ burst.”
Premier Griffith : “ A sort of religious
crusade has arisen against tlio introduetiun of
Polynesians, and I hope Id will not go on. 1
would be very sorry to see the doctrines of the
Christian religion employed in sucli absurd oppo-
sition.’' This /—this ! ! from the very man
who, in ’B3, started the crusade against the
Kanaka slave-trade, in the name of the Christian
religion, and in good orthodox Exeter Hall cant.
At an inquest held on the 11th March at
Prahran, (Vic.), on a very small infant of sixteen
months, the mother of the deceased cheerfully
attested that he had never been suckled, but had
been fed on “rump-steak, brandy, mutton-broth,”
and various other sundries. An infant who starts
life on rump-steak and brandy, and hangs out for
sixteen months under these conditions, must be
an exceedingly tough offspring.
An exchange recalls the killing of “ Wel-
lington,” probably the biggest giant among Aus-
tralian black fellows since the advent of the white
man to this continent. “Wellington’' was 7ft.
high, and weighed, in the nude, over 17-stone. He
was a chief of one of the Nicholson River (N.Q.)
tribes, and a noted terror to whites, with whom
housed to “gammon friends ” previous to acting
treacherously. On the day of his death, he had
crossed the Nicholson to a white's camp, when a
“dispersing party” that had been trailing him
came up. “Wellington” plunged back into the
river, and was scrambling up the opposite bank
when a “ Winchester ” pinged him, apparently in
the shoulder. Though he gave a terrific bound
and ran for nearly a quarter of a mile, it was
afterwards discovered that the bullet bad gone
clean through the centre of his heart.
Dear Bulletin,-- Be the discussed scandal-
ous treatment of common soldiers by their officers
in Germany, I have a cousin who has served
his time in the Prussian army, and he informs me
that the instances quoted in the press are not only
true but far below the average. He told me a
number of j ar.is, most of them being rather too
“steep’’for publication, but a couple of humorous
incidents occurred among them. One day the
lieutenant of a certain regiment called a private,
but the man, instead of walking directly to him,"
stepped a little on one side and picked up a button
from the ground cn route. “ Ho, ho, my friend,”
exclaimed the officer, “is that the way you march !
Write, by six o’clock to-morrow morning, 500
times, “a straight line is the nearest means of
approach between two given points.” Anyone
who has been for days engaged in German musket
and general drill practice will realise what sort of
a job this would prove to ids tired fingers.
Another day the captain found by the almanac
that on the following morning an eclipse of tin*
sun would take place. He accordingly instructed
the sergeant, when reading out the orders fur next
day’s work, to intimate that between 11 and 12
ro drill would be enforced. This is how he fu'-
filled his instructions: “Attention. To-morrow
by order of the captain there will be an eclipse of
the Min lel ween 11 and 12 a.m. No exercise
therefoie will take place during that interval.
Dismiss. " Chari ks ,»cnop.
I’falilcrt s Hold, W.ynyiml Square, (Sydney.
.1. Lichtsclnindf, for many years proprietor of theKmphe
Jlolel, W ellinyl' ii, N.Z., has taken over the above old
i s'ahlisntd firs -clast} hotel Tile Garden IGstamant is
now ready for the smniner months.
, ri;i)i;!;ATio,\ or no federation.
The latest sojutne for Federation
(Hahns to he for the country's weal,
While maxprove Iml botheration,
Whk;li‘eanVbe said of Pk.mku/s Mku„
His Goldkx'Mkai. is what I mean,
*Ti» good and cheap I ween.
Anywhere! Anywhere ! murmurs the Gov.,
A way from adorers who jostle and shove.
Government House, I fairly may say,
Is all very well for a while in its way ;
But that flag at the top that proclaims when we’re in
I really regard as a cardinal sin !
How can my flunkey assure 'em we’re out
When the soiled hit of bunting is hanging about?
matter what bores to the porta! may stray
Chawles cannot say solemnly I am away.
If I wasn’t in that dashed flag wouldn’t fly !
And I can’t have my butler found out in a lie !
So I must get up a mad craze for the sea,
And pitch my sad tent on the shores of Coogee.
No Union Jack over that villa shall fall ;
I m out or 1m in —as I choose, when you call.
I must get away now and then from that flag—
Ocean air? I should smile like a wide carpet-hag,
I must get away now and then from that flag !
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WRRf;
Theatre Koval “A Sailor’s Knot n
Criterion “ Caste.”
Her Majesty's * ‘Life’s llou«h r. Oa a »
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Opera House “Masks and Faces ”
I RI.NCESS'. Comic Opera Conm ailv
Theatre Royal “ Bridget o’Briei -■ J ‘
~ 3 IJOU “Sunlight and Shadow
Alexandra “ Wilful Murder.” '
“ Life's Rough Road,” produced on Satin-
day night at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is a laeln-,-'
mose production, and lias a tendency to mal e h
auditor hang himself on the hat-rack in the ve!r
bule, or cut his throat in the umbrella-stina
George Rignold is troubled and low-spirited ill
through the piece, and his grief, and the i ( ,h!
grief of the company, affects the dress-cirelon a
slops over into the stalls. Mr. Rignold is troubled
in the first act because he has run away f rn ,
home, and secretly married the daughter of
fierce, fat man, with one black hair on the ton of
his head, and has grieved his mother, and wronlpd
Ins father—who looks like an aged William-rronf
in a boll-topper, and because his father’s first wif
has turned up, thereby proving him to be ill,. 0
gitunate. He is harassed in the second vi
because his father dies and his mother fall,
down deceased, and his father-in-law sluL.
his wife, and he loses all his money, qv*
he is further worried in the third act became
he and his wife are both starving in a moiildv
room in a tenement house, and he can get m,
work, and the landlady threatens to throw them
out, and they have to borrow food from his father’s
first wife’s first husband, who is in rags ■ ami
George is assaulted by his hereditary enemy,’after
which a bale of wool falls on Ids stomach m a
dock. He doesn’t brighten up much in Act IV
for the sufficient reason that he is in the hospital
with a broken arm and squashed chest, and he
has no prospects, and his wife is starving and lost
and insane, and he is hooted at in his misery by
Ids father’s first wife. Also, he looks depressed
in Act V., because, though he has recovered
the property, Ids own wife is still lost—she
is found at last partially deranged behind a shrub.
Then William Rignold—as George Rignold’s
father-in-law—is sorrowful because he has gnashed
his teetli in a pasteboard cottage for 18 years, and
foamed, and lashed out in impotent fury, and
when at last his vengeance comes he finds it has
gone bad. Mr. Jewett is melancholy because a
tramp is perpetually threatening to have him
hanged ; Mr. Carey is sad because he has been in
Siberia; Miss Watt-Pldllips is gloomy and tear-
sodden because she has been cursed by her father,
and hasn’t enjoyed a square meal ever since she
married Mr. Rignold; and Miss Editli Bland
fails to keep her spirits up for various reasons,
and ultimately goes into a convent. r J here is not
one gleam of sunshine in the whole five acts. The
entire show is a heap of groaning ruins wallowing
in a sea of grief, and the one spot in it which is
not so dark as the rest is an old woman who is
stone-broke, and expects to go to the workhouse,
and thinks from his shrieks that her husband has
fallen into the fire downstairs.
# * *
Under these painful conditions there is
not much to be said for the company. William
Rignold is by far the best feature in it; beads
well, and his head looms up further above the
cataract of woe than the head of anybody else.
Mr. Jewett’s villain has become stereotyped; he
sneers with a certain old, disused sneer, and even
when you only see his feet under a gate you know
diat he will come to a bad end. This expectation
is fully realised, for George Rignold mops him all
over the place in the last scene, and strangles him,
and tears him through shrubs by the head, and
then he is arrested and taken away for execution.
George Rignold does well, but ho is loaded
down with tons of anguish, and there are
whole mountains on his head. About once in
every two acts he comes to the surface of his
troubles to breathe, and then he dives again and
flops about wearily at the bottom of an ocean cf
misery. Miss Edith Bland, as the boss adven-
turess, has a tendency to be hard and wooden, and
moreover she is objectionable as being the cause
of the whole trouble; she sowed an infant when
she was young, and the seed falling on responsive
soil she reaps Mr. Jewett in her middle age.
George Carey and Miss Bessie Rignold are two
redeeming features, and the rest is more grief and
much scenery. “Life’s Rough Road” is too
suicidal, too damp, too depressing—except, cf
course, for that large class of persons who like to
take their woe neat. An ordinary man might
send his creditors and his enemies and his mother-
in-law to see it, but he could hardly desire to see
it himself.
** * *
That faith which is commonly personified
by a picture of a green, damp female clinging tea
sea-washed rock has kept “A Sailor’s Knot”
booming for many days at Sydney Royal, hut its
end is now at hand. And before it goes we desire
to ask Air. Bland Holt, in a loud voice, to patch
up one weak point which appears in all his dramas,
and in this one a little more, perhaps, than in the
rest, and to put the patch on before his next pro-
duction appears. We refer to the utter inadequacy
of the exp’anation offered by the man who rushes
in just when the hero is about to be hanged, and
saves him from destruction. All through the first
four acts, as a rule, the leading character is
trodden underfoot by brigands, hangmen, and
wild spielers, he loses his girl, he is thrown into
gaol and thrown out again, and finally a
crisis arrives when he is going to he
finally obliterated. And just here it generally
happens that a thTd party gallops in, and offers
an unsupported statement which has nothing at
all to do with the matter in hand, and having
thrown this fact on the troubled waters every-
thing comes right. Practically the dramatist
travels on the assumption that 'when his wicked
individual has crawled through a s ea of infamy to
gain a certain purpose, he will naturally collapse
the instant some nnshoin spectre comes in head
first, and clears up the mystery which surrounded
something else—the loss of an umbrella, period
25 years previously. This sort of thing burdens
our soul. Unless the man who rushes in 9® 11
come armed with a more reasonable explanation
the heio’s execution had la Iter proceed.
*
Ali through tiiu week tho Rahim Gperit
Company has been busy winding up its
at Sydney Gairiek, and selling off the n iimantu
of its stock of opera ieg aidless of cost. ( ' n
Monday, “II Bnrbiero ” was produced f r tin*
bent fit of Signor Giiuini Sisco; the house v9 s
crowded, and Signor Sisco Lore up beneath
cash insult with much vigour. “La Sonrainbiila
was staged on Tuesday ; it was one of thegrei*
successes of tho season, and when the curfcM. 11
came down on the pomp and glitter of tW


„nr<*eous story, it had to be raised again three
™. s while Signora Cuttioa expressed her
y ,lie . „ n( j her admirers nearly screamed the
I 'T off in their joy. Signor Maffezzoli took a
lo ° 4it on Wednesday in the presence of a some-
l«;net diminished audience, most of the supporters
"f tl e Garrick having cheered themselves nearly
I' death the night before. “LaTraviata” was
t up on Thursday for more benefit, the Cutticas
i a the recipients on this occasion. The opera
great au d ] urid success, the house was filled
" 'tint the walls bulged out on either side, the
$0 ospherc was 1 ke unto the bottomless pit, the
diestra neaily died at its post from sheer
° r< thusiasni, and the Cutticas almost broke their
f ll .i-s both of them, while removing the bouquets.
Wo a tame while dove fluttered down to the
sVnora bom the gallery, and a box of handker-
Ij f g a Jot of jewellery, a dressing-ease, and
various other signs and tokens of good-will were
Glided in by all sorts of admirers. A ham
d an iron stove were the only presents wanting
to complete the show. The Signora gave way to
.motion at the sight of so much cordiality, and
lad to hide her overflowing soul in her dressing-
oom. On Friday night “ Lucia di Lammermoor”
'•one! 'tided the season with much eclat, and then
the Italian Opera Co. folded its melodious tent
d stole away. It didn’t steal fur, and in all
probability another season will be arranged at an
uly date, unless some altogether unlooked-for
disaster interferes with the programme.
Hf Hf Hf Hf
Mr. Alfred Tennyson Dickens is still
stumping the suburbs of Sydney in a dreary way
with his dreary lecture about his father. It is a
sad thing to hear a lachrymose man in a black
coat yearning miserably over a dead genius, and
we devoutly trust it may never happen again.
** * *
At Sydney Criterion, “ New Men and Old
Acres” is drawing its last breath and nightly
orotfds. The public appreciation of Anson’s
Kenischun Banter has both elongated and
widened with each performance, and the sterling,
old stall-fed classic reveals its honoured streakiness
of humour and pathos. The only change in the
wist has been the substitution of Clitheroe, as
Seeker, the attorney, for Lash Gordon, who was
wanted at Melbourne Bijou. Mrs. Molyneux’s
Lilian Vavasour is full of power and esprit. Miss
K. Homer makes a properly disgusting and arti-
ficial English “ me-lady.” Miss Brenda Gibson,
as Fanny Bunter, carries out the unpedigreed
languishing of the unutterable yearn with under-
standable effect. Miss Annie Taylor, as Mrs.
Banter, cockers along vulgarly in orthodox (stage)
parvenu style. Robert Brough is Marmaduke
Vavasour, and—Robert Brough. Sass is a self-
contained self-made man and nature's gentleman
as Sam. Brown, and H. Chichester, as Bertie
Fitz-Urse, bubbles with hobbledehoy enthusiasm
and younger-son’s recklessness. “Caste” is
the bill-of-fare for the coming week, with Anson
as Eccles.
Hf Hf * Hf
Go sober to Sydney Royal Standard
Theatre while Mons. D’Arc holds the board 8
there with his Marionettes and his Fani\chc s
Fran<;aise. Mock gymnasts and rope-walkers, of
both sexes, tipsy jugglers and serpent-men, song*
and-dance artistes, and Bluebeard and his retinue,
carry on in apparent defiance of all natural laws,
tumble to pieces, and chase with one part of their
anatomies several other parts, and mysteriously
reunite their fragments ; and a transformation
scene, full of fiery dragons and dazzling fays and
orange waterfalls like nothing under the sun,
except a bacchanal’s loosened brainspring, gives
an ecstatic finish to a bewildering phantasmagoria.
Go sober, we say ; and go home sober and take a
sedative draught.
Hf Hf Hf Hf
On Thursday and Friday nights cf this
week, Sydney Garrick was to be occupied by
Rice’s Evangeline Company, tbe members of
which are to leave per s.s. Mariposa for America.
Varied programme.
Hf Hf Hf Hf
Dan. Tracey’s Vaudeville Company
Sydney School of Arts has spurted with a new
programme, including a burlesque “ La Sonnam-
hulu,” and a new character vocalist, Harry Her-
celles, who made his debfit with three recalls. At
Sydney Polytechnic, Hiscocks’ Federal Minstrels,
and the illusions of the “Royal Museum,” and
an unstinted dose of Horace Bent, are fetching
good audiences. Concerts and variety entertain-
men's keep Sydney Alhambra at full music-tide,
and Frank Smith doesn't feel the hard times.
Hf Hf Hf *
M. Wiegand’s organ recital at Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday evening drew an audience
of over 2000, and was remarkable for its varied
range of subjects, from Mozart’s “Magic Flute”
to kun-ti-ty airs from “Les Cloches de Corne-
vdle.” Wiegand introduced two new tilings of
his own composition, and dedicated to Mayoress
Manning,
Hf * Hf Hf
Sunday concerts still rage in Sydney—
the Misses Albu, at the Garrick; Larmour’s
c.assiques, at the Criterion ; the Lingards, &c.,
at the Royal Standard ; afternoon concerts at
bench and Coogeo Aquariums and the Botany
grounds. Wyburd (Bondi) has introduced Signora
A- Maffelogni, who seems to have caught on.
boogee also presents a new voice from Beatrice
1 muell. Chowder Bay has its own little Sunclav
melange.
Hf Hf Hf *
Sydney Cyclurama of the Battle of Gettys*
! ui 'd lias not yet tired out the ever-changing
Sl ght-scers of the metropolis.
Sfc
Saturday’s revival of “ Dorothy,’ Mel-
bourne Princess’s, was a snapless function, for the
’"ost part owing to a complication of reasons
which didn’t always appear upon the surface of
'he show. When Lurcher Elton was falling
downstairs,- or being reduced to rags by a gaudy
peasantry, matters seemed to progress as of yore,
ut when that immortal writ-server retired to the
y llr ‘ lo lelt a larger vacuum than usual. Howard
ernon, another “ Dorothy” identity, compared
avourably with his former self; also Ryley (as
I man who sings an inflammatory ballad
° Miss Bantam at her bedroom threshold) left
wtlung in particular to be desired. The interest
novelty was attached to five of the principals,
and of these the two with least to do—Mira
•uneron and Miss Yarley—came off fairly well
n the struggle with early “Dorothy ” traditions.
1, >e '(’niaining trio were accountable for a certain
vivacity in either the music, the comedy,
both. Miss Marie Halton is physically and
rh j C unsuited to represent the merry little
of an English country squire, one of the
en bine. Her semi-foreign accent and massive
u L U,e .’ both in petticoats and breeches, brings
0 n v'cule the assumption that she can escape
ognition from a couple of lady-killers, aud only
. .1" *' n pr identity by her e’othes. Moreover, the
I'uuia-douna’s voice seemed to be suffering from
the weather on Saturday, and was thin and in-
effective in several of the dear, familiar melodies.
E' en the cheery hunting-song and chorus fetched
only a half-hearted encore. Miss Florence Young,
the Lydia of the occasion, continues to come up
like a flower in each new character, but the music
doesn’t set her off to great advantage. Finally,
Braey is a calm, unruffled cause for dissatisfaction
in the tenor part. As a spendthrift nephew he
comes tardy off—whatever Shakespere may have
meant by that expression. There is a fearful
absence of ginger in Biaey’s method, and his sing-
ing appears to come from next door. The royal
ballerinas are delightful in their little dance, the
chorus good, and the mounting bright as ever.
“Carmen,” now in rehearsal, will be wanted
very shortly.
Hf Hf Hf -;ie
Mrs. Bernard-Bcere, at the Opera House,
does her best to conceal the fact that she ought to
be taking a long holiday from stage-business, but
there is, unhappily, no strength in the effort. The
gifted lady grew more wan and weary as last week
wore away, and the general opinion of “As in a
Looking Glass ” was influenced accordingly.
Nothing short of Mrs. Beere at her beA could
suffice to keep such a play in great favour, and so
the bill is to bo changed on Saturday, when,
health permitting, the “star” will appear as Peg
Woffington.
Hi Hi Hi *
Two benefit performances filled the Royal
comfortably last Saturday. There was a matinee
on behalf of Miss Claire Duvalli, an alleged Melba
of the future, whose organ is to undergo a course
of Italian treatment. Anon Billee Barlow had her
night out, appearing as Nan, in “Good for
Nothing,” and washing her face amidst many
manifestations of joy. Billee is now about to
pack up her theatrical wardrobe in a small
black bag, and leave the boys lamenting.
She has clone a good deal for the Royal
in its upper storeys, and her tights will
long be talked of by all who knew them. J. F.
Sheridan enters into possession of the house forth-
with, and intends to break out anew as Bridget
O’Brien, Esquire, instead of fulfilling a fearful
threat to paralyse them with “The Shaughraun.”
** * *
“ Sophia ” occupies the boards of Mel-
bourne Bijou in the meantime, The hero, Jones,
is once again professing his ability to work, if the
worst comes to the worst. Partridge is around,
too, came as ever, and the purification of poor
Tom’s other shirt is still a soapy feature of the
entertainment. There is far too much room to
spare in the Bijou auditorium of late, but in the
general ability of the performances there are no
gaps, and the glory of the accessories fades not
at all. Everything is calculated to please,
with the exception of the waits, which
are apt to be hideously long, and gratuitously
tiresome. In these times of depression people
mustn’t be left to sit and think for 15 consecutive
minutes in a quiet, sparsely-populated theatre,
because they are sure to think that they wish they
hadn’t come. However, “ Sunlight and Shadow ”
(on April 2nd) will be as new to Melbourne as
Miss Ida Liston, and the vision of a strange
actress in a strange play should arouse a burst of
attention.
* Hf * *
“Wilful Murder” appeals to the blood-
shot eye of a horror-stricken community, and the
crime on the Alexandra hearthstone “has an
extraordinary attraction for ladies ” who come in
theatre parties to the feast of gore and shudder as
though they liked it. The villain of the piece is a
distinct libel on “Williams,” ina*much as his
lovemaking would put a female elephant on her
guard, and his appearance calls for vengeance all
the time. As a throat-cutter, however, he has
never been equalled. The weird whistle
of the razor, severing the arteries of his
bonny bride, breaks upon the breathless silence
with such ghastly significance that the victim’s
head is confidently expected to drop off and roll
into the new-made grave. At this point the
illusion would be quite complete if the fiend
were provided with a penny squirt to scatter blood
with. Many other opportunities are missed in
“ Wilful Murder ” which is poorly stage-managed,
but the overthrow of “Williams” in the last act
brings this tropical show to a striking conclusion.
Hf Hf Hf Hf
Afc the Athenaeum a savant described as
Professor John is magnifying microbes and in-
visibles of all sorts to five million times their
natural size, so that the everlasting struggle of
animal life may be studied upon a large canvas.
At a lot of other shows the same struggle may bo
observed with the naked eye.
At Poverty Point.
Dear Bulletin ; “ The gruesome story told in a recent
issue about the hull which carried off a black baby impaled
on its horns, and wandered round with this depressing
burden until the bull went mad and the baby fell into
decay, suggests a good idea for Dampier’s next melodrama.
The great trouble in melodrama is to find some new and
original way of disposing of the villain. Therefore, I
would suggest to Garnet Walch that that base indhidual,
just when he reaches the climax of his crimes in the third
act, should be rushed from behind by a frenzied cow, and
carried away impaled and shrieking horribly. Then the
fourth and fifth acts could he devoted to putting things
right in a sylvan glade, and every now and then the cow
could rush’madly past with the decaying remains of the
bad man trailing from its horns. Regarded as a means of
appealing to the inner soul of the gallery this ought to
take well and give pleasure to all.— Titus Salt.
Odell, a splendid comedian, is said to he coming out to
Australia in search of an engagement. For years past, he
nas been one of the neglected geniuses of Ihe purfesh,
and a few friends and admirers are raising the necessary
wind to waft him to these parts. A hundred good yarns
are told of Odell’s humour and impecuniosily. His
regular attendance at a club where his subscription was
about three years overdue was considered such a shock-
ing example that thfc management at last served him
with a sharp notice to keep away. A night or two after-
wards the irrepressible broker strolled in as usual and
ordered a frugal banquet. The manager was sent for,
and he requested that the gentleman would pficefnlly
retire. “It’s all right,” said Odell, “this is my Last
Supper, but the twelve have not turned up.”|
Max Klein, who first came to Melbourne as first violin
in the Gowen orchestra, is off to the South hf Europe for
the benefit of his health.
No matter whether it be fine or wet, we always play to
crowded audiences ; we always please our kind patrons,
and always receive the most flattering notices from a dis-
criminating Press; and thus encouraged by the generous
approval of the public, endorsed by the critics, the worry
and anxiety of running so large a company is to us a
labour of love, rendered comparatively light since we
possess the agreeable conviction that we bask in the
genial sunshine of the good opinion of those whom it is
the actor’s vocation to please— to live.”— Extract from
Dan. Dairy's handbill, addressed “To (ha Generous
Public of Australasia” out in the wilderness.
They say now that Sara Bernhardt thinks of marrying
a Hebrew financier of the self-made sort. How abcut
Darmonl?
Nina Boucioault made her first London apprnrar.ee at
the Strand Theatre, ten w eeks ago, in a farcical remedy
called “The New Wing.” llerheit Stan ling took pail in
the same show.
“ Cinder-K. leu,” considerably alter d, is now going \r iv
well, at the Gaiety. Also, Nellie Fan eu’s gout is p polled
to be getting hctur.
There are more ex-opera warblers about Oollins-street
than one would think. One is Leandro Coy, another
Spaniard, whose daughter has grown up into a charming
rep I ha of her mother, the gifted Giulia Tamhurini Coy.
Charlie Armstrong now demands that a Melba Com-
mission should take Australian evidence. I’lease don’t.
Lawrence’s long-promised “Life of G. V. Brooke” is
at last criticised by the London papers, and in circulation.
The lady who accompanied Brooke to Melbourne as his
wife was a Miss Bray, of Birmingham. After the wreck of
the London a bottle was found at Brighton with a mes-
sage from Brooke to Avonia Jones in it on a torn envelope.
Brooke’s letters from Melbourne are deeply interesting.
Robert Brough, of Brough and Boucioault, writes a
sensible letter to the Era about Tom Squire, the Gaiety
dancer, who died in Melbourne, leaving a wife and four
children. Squire, his wife and family, were sent out from
England by a theatrical subscription, and Brough shows
the folly of this course, under the circumstances. Another
subscription was raised among the profession to send Mrs.
Squire and her children back to London.
A daughter of Mr. Call, the Melbourne ex-P.M., is on
the London stage, in the “Great Metropolis,” at the
Princess’s. She acts as Miss Waud, hut is a widow, dis-
tinguished as an amateur. Her mother, a lady of strong
literary tastes, was unfortunately burnt to death at Caul-
field, Melbourne.
The limelight went wrong during Mrs. Bernard Beere’s
death-scene, the other night, and she had to expire in the
darkness. Probably the fair invalid was glad of the
opportunity to take things easy in her last moments.
Ladies will be shocked to hear that Charles Ryley
suffered from two or three genuine fainting-fits on the
stage last week. Ryley, indeed, is quite, “run down,”
and the charmers who used to pelt him with floral
tributes might well give a practical turn to their adora-
tion by chucking on some champagne-jelly or—shall we
say it ?—Clements Tonic.
Herbert Standing’s voice seems so hard and inflexible,
in villain parts, that only these who have heard his
“imitations” can believe him to be a prince of mimics.
The Age has been printing Melbourne Royal advertise-
ments “at the special request of Miss Barlow, Miss
Duvalli, Mr. J. F. Sheridan’’—anybody other than
George Coppin, in fact. This is hideously funny. Coppin,
it is said, can remember a time when lie graciously con-
sented to reinsert the Royal ad. in the Age at the special
request of David Syme, who has, doubtless, forgotten the
touching incident. Humph ! Now, how did The Bulletin
get hold of that ?
The funniest piece seen in London fora longtime, writes
a Bulletin correspondent, is “The-New Wing,” with
which Willie Edouin has “ struck ile,” at the Strand. It
is good from start to finish, and is clever without being
vulgar. Willie Edouin himself, as a ’onest working
decorator, is perfectly killing. In thecourse of onescene he
papers a whole room in a style which would make Roth
green with envy. It is said that he worked in a paper-
hanger’s shop for several hours a day for a month to learn
the business.
Can anyone tell us what has become of the sweet singer,
Emma Ward, who delighted the Sandridge boatmen and
luck v diggers at the Napoleon HI. Music Hall, at Emerald
Hill,’in ’55?
W. 11. Jude, the harmonium-player and lecturer, has
been holding a series of Sunday afternoon services at
Hobart, winding up with a collection. Jude has evidently
a big grudge against the musical profession—“groggy-
nosed organists who dress in seedy black coats, and wear
white ties to conciliate the clergy.”
Nellie Stewart has told a London interviewer that she
“never takes flowers from the front.” And yet we
remember a big floral crown being yanked on to the stage
at her “ Paul Jones ” premiere, at Sydney Royal, osten-
sibly from “ the people of Bourke,” but really, as it after-
wards turned out, from the management.
The Divine Sara has written a ghost-story in a ’Frisco
journal. She used to have eerie visions and revelations
when staying in Sydney.
When necessary Sells’ circus can pitch its great tent for
receiving an audience in less than an hour. The country
performances generally terminate at 10.30, and by mid-
night the big show is often packed up and away on its
journey to fresh fields.
Dear Bulletin, —It was years ago at Climes (Vie.). A
few of us (waifs and strays of the Company, frozen
out at the old Royal, Ballarat) had gone there as a forlorn
hope. Opened at the Apollo. Can’t say if it was our
want of quality, or the opposition of the Novaros and
Charlie Lascelles at the Town Hall; anyway, the “ghost
didn’t walk.” Stayed at B. & M. Hotel. Had come, but
couldn’t go. Landlord froze on to traps. Manageress
went to Ballarat to try to raise the wind. Pretty hope-
less that. However, got the ladies away, so didn’t care
much. Landlord very affable; money sure to come.
Some days elapsed ; things looking bluer. Happy thought:
go up town, engage room ; quiet place—very. Drizzly
weather ; overcoats on, of course. Always used to knock
about. Anxiously awaiting that money ; also, cf course,
used to drop into hotel and wander about aimlessly. Go
upstairs : one pair tights, two ditto pants, sundry vests,
one or more coats, sundries in pockets -Overcoat.
Gentle stroll up town. Into that quiet room: disrobe.
Da capo. Ha! Horrid thought! 1 Weight of boxes
Hum. Happy idea: a screw in floor. Act last. — First
opening of Climes railway. Naturally go and look on.
Besides, expect those funds. Lots of people about. Stroll
about. Go home to hotel. Landlord gone by train to
Ballarat to look up that money. Afternoon train.
Nobody about. Bundles hastily fetched from quiet room.
Exeunt (mines per train. Horrid thought again: land-
lord at Ballarat Station. Misgivings. (Play Jacques
Strop well now—“Oh, my poor nerves!”) “Ballarat,
Ballarat.” Not here ! Joy !! Safe ! !! No more perfesh
for me, thank you.— The Palmer.
Every now and again Mrs. Kendal makes herself ridicu-
lous with some advertising twaddle about her private life.
Her latest is that only recently did she and her husband
discover that they were both passionately fond of onions.
Manager Dampier has been in the company of Williams,
alias, alias, alias —to he continued. Now he has him in
]iis company. Asked would he like the real man to take
the part of first murderer in the new old "drammer,”
Alfred replied, “ No Dam-pier,” or something like that.
It is being industriously rumoured that Sir Henry
Parkes had a hand in the composition of the libretto of
“ Mari tana.”
The British Beere lias a fine head on it; its beads are
brilliant.
Madame Patti has sold to a scientific specialist the
right to make a post-mortem examinalion of her throat,
in = cider to see whether its construction is different to
that of the throats of ordinary howlers.
A tragedienne is a woman who denies that she plays
comedy.
The London correspondent of the Argus, speaking of
“ Blue-Eyed Susan,” gives a full description of the play,
music, mounting, &c., hut never says a werd of our Nellie.
This is an ominous silence with a vengeance. It is said
that the title was changed to “Blue-Eyed,” because
Nellie has cerulean orbs.
It is sad to think (writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent) that after all the fuss and bother Nellie Stewart
should have been almost a failure. The ciilics showed
her little mercy, and damned her with faint praise when
they did not slide her outright. She has improved some-
what since the first few performances, but still leaves
much to he desired. She is much too fidgety on the stage,
ami on the first night, Arthur Williams says, she quite
put the rest of the performers out by her mercurial
manner. “ Blue-Eyed Susan,” the piece I mean, is what
Fred. Leslie would call “a rotter.”
Oscar Wilde is said to have written a really clever and
humorous play. But he’ll never write anything as funny
as the social comedy of his own life.
The gallery gods do not appear to care for Beere in a
Looking Glass. “As in a Tank” would suit the climate
better, and fit the play just as well.
“ We start at every shadow of an actor,” wrote
Maoready, in his diary, apropos of Phelps’ first successful
appearance. Here is the wretched feeling of an living or
B rnhardt.
Arrangements at Melbourne Royal: Six weeks of
Johnny Sheridan, ten weeks of Bland Holt, meanwhile,
Billee Barlow and the Royal people go to Ballarat,
Bendigo, then Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Bland has
brimming hopes that he is the man for Galway, and may
stick.
The “Much Ado About Nothing” scenery is on the
move, from the Melbourne Bijou, for Sydney.
When Brooke made his first London appearance, his
manager was Spicer, who yet lives. Spicer wrote the
“ Lords of F.llingham,” in which Brooke aeled.
Fiol. Appleton, the actor, has a dramatic school, in
Melbourne; the pupils mike their fust essay in the
“Merchant of Venice.” T.-enty \enrs ago, mid less,
Fr d. was fho popular juvenile identifkd With
“Pygmalion,” “Lord Beaufoy,” and the like. Mrs. G.
B. W. Lewis is gone, as the tut,rice, and Appleton and
Oathcart wrestle for the succession, with D’Orsay Ogden.
Madge Seymour, danseuse, takes all the shine out of
helhe Stewart and Marion Burton, in “ Blue-Eyed Susan.”
She is the successor of Kate Vaughan, while Sylvia Grey,
I.elty Lind, and Florence Levey are in various degrees of
s.iade. a
When an actress cannot purchase a society drama, she
decrys it as immoral—sour gripes, in the London accent.
“ Starved to death ” was the verdict on poor Tom
Oimphell, found dead in Royal Park, Melbourne, last
week.
day aX <^ ' eaves ® an Francisco for Sydney this Thurs-
The MacMahon Bros, got £5OO libel-damages against
hoi esp ® UNDAY f° r an article impugning their
Miss E. Taylor (Mrs. Mayo), of the Italian Opera Co,
was (Downed in Sydney Harbour, while out on a pleasure
excursion in a sailing-boat, on Saturday night last, in
company with some officers and a seaman cf the steamer
City of Adelaide, and a Mr. Courtenay. The boat was
capsized by a squall. The seaman, by name Beattie, was
also drowned. The body of Mrs. Mayo was next day found
three miles or more from the fatal spot.
G. 11. Reid (cross-examining barrister): “Miss String-
ham was a widow with a son?” Jimmy MacMahon
(witness under fire); “ I suppose she must he a widow,
as I have never heard of her husband, and knew she had
a son.” Q.E.D.
Says a correspondent“ I have just learned that Miss
Rounsevelle has received an offer in Melbourne of £23
a-week—to ‘star it,’ I suppose—which she ‘rejected with
scorn. ”
The Bulletin asserts that Deeming is
identical with the Dora Dora blacks.
What is obviously the confession of a
certain noted criminal, was lately offered by the
criminal himself, in the guise of a story, to more
than one Sydney publisher.
Manager, sub-manager, and Graham Berry,
a director, fixed as liquidators of Melbourne Mer-
cantile at <£looo a year a man to begin with. The
local depositors are fairly in it —the soup.
The preliminary expenses of the plaintiff
in the great Samoan land-case were found by ten
Aucklanders, who put up 15 each. It lias cost
McArthur & Co., <£40,000 on the verdict, and
heaven knows how much in costs.
At Liverpool (Eng.) a judge, some little
time ago, sentenced an old woman to eleven years’
penal servitude for stealing a shirt. And it wasn't
a new shirt at that. But property, even in the
humble shape of an undergarment, must be pro-
tected.
West Australia proposes starting a Han-
sard of its own. One reporter will “do” the
Council plus select committee work for £l2OO a
year. Two reporters will do the Assembly plus
select committee work one at £4OO, the other at
£2OO. By the great cheese rind, they are looking
for tally-clerks, not shorthand-writers !
The British “ Medical Council ” recently
struck the name of a surgeon-dentist off the
register because he advertised in the newspapers,
and (he British law-courts have formally decided
they were fully justified in doing so, and that
their conduct was perfectly correct. This is the
sort of professional despotism which will be es-
tablished in N.S. Wales whenever the Medical
Bill gets through the Legislature. There was no
claim put forward that the person in question was
a bad dentist—in fact he seems to have been an
exceptionally good one. The public didn’t object
to him advertising, and as they kept him in fees
they were the only individuals who had any right
to object. The Council of the Medical Register
didn’t pay him, and therefore they had no more
right to interfere with his advertising than they
had to prevent him washing his head. The
Council wouldn’t have said anything if he had
been a drunkard, or if he had been an unskilful
operator and had broken a patient’s jaw—these
things only concern that great, dull, patient,
enduring ass, the general public, and it doesn’t
matter in the least. But when he trod on the
“etiquette of the profession”—which doesn't
concern the public in the slightest degree—then
the medical volcano woke up on the spot.
The special reporter in W.A. of (he S.M.
Herald wires that Deeming confessed to his
solicitor, Mr. R. S. Haynes, that lie was guilty of
the Rainhill murders and also of some of the
“Ripper” crimes. Now, in West Australia, as
in most parts of the civilised world, it is the
privilege of an accused man under lock-and-key to
confer with his legal adviser in absolute privacy ;
therefore, assuming the truth of the Herald's
allegation (which is strenuously denied by Mr.
Haynes), it is clear that either Deeming or his
attorney must have been the original means of
promulgating the report printed in the Herald —a
report, by the way, which has been universally
circulated and which renders it absolutely impos-
sible for Deeming to have a fair trial anywhere in
Australasia at any time within thenextl2 months.
Apropos Mr. Haynes’ disclaimer, The Bulletin
may remark that if it could be proved that any
lawyer engaged in a prisoner’s defence had broken
that prisoner's confidence, he would and should
be struck off the rolls. And, be it said to the
credit of the legal profession, there is, so far as wo
know, no recorded instance, either in England,
America, or Australia, of any lawyer having
unauthorisedly divulged his client’s confession—
any more than there is on record any case wherein
a minister of the Gospel has betrayed his trust
in such a way.
I am the finished model of a bloody modern mur-
derer,
And, search the earth entirely through, you
couldn’t get no “ furderer ”;
I have a constant weakness for a-varying of my
missis, sir,
I never stop at anything from cutting throats to
kisses, sir.
And when I’m tired of honeymoons, would plunge
some new adventure in,
I basil a skull and cut a throat, and brick and
then cement her in.
I love the girls, as any man who’s fond of marriage
bans should do;
I keep my family worries dark, as every married
man should do;
I close the door on every male who visits my mia-
mia and rings,
And ere I cut my “ present’s ” throat I bait my
“next ” with diamond-rings ;
No girls I’ve met resist that lure unique in all its
“only-ness,”
And then I clinch it with my sighs, my love, and
pitied “loneliness.”
I never do let go my hold, nor let my love get
“ slackwarder,”
And as I keep the dead-’uns’ gems, my jewels
don’t get backwarder;
I trick the new-’uns out in silks and buy ’em
gloves and gossamers,
By heedless generosity I pick up all the blos-
som ers ;
And wed and slay, and slay and wed, until I can’t
get “ furderer ”
Yes, I'm the finished model of a bloody modern
maiden r.
ALIAS


Use Batho’b Baking Powder.
A.GB3VTTS for PAUSODONOPTIC SPECTACLES.
SPECTACLES and EYE-GLASSES TO SUIT ALL SIGHTS.
Sit Hit Skilfully Tested by thoroughly experienced-Opticians. Spectacles and Eye-Glasses made up according to Oculists’ prescriptions. Repairs of every description. Pebbles, Glasses, Frames, &c., Fitted.
PAUSODONOPTIC SPECTACLES and EYE-
GLASSES should bo worn by all who value their
eye sight. Spectacles are bad articles to economise. Get
good ones, you have comfort and preserve your eyesight ;
get common ones, and you are always in misery and ruin
your sight. In nice leather case, 10s. Gd.
Genuine Pebble Spectacles, all sights 5/- per pair, in case
Best ~ ~ ~ 8/6 ~ „
Best ~ ~ ~ Silver Frames, 15/-to 22/6 ~ ~
Best ~ ~ ~ Gold Frames, 25/-to 00/- ~ ~
By Post, (id. extra.
/ i O TO SKILFUL OPTICIANS and SPECTACLB-
VT MAKERS for your GLASSES. Not to inexperienced
Dealers, Jewellers, Ironmongers and others, as many do, ■3'"'
Unis permanently injure theirsight. As soon as you notice your
eyes growing dim for reading, working, or seeing at a distance,
call on us. We will test your sight and supply correct glasses.
FROST & SHIPHAM,
GREAT SPECTACLE
XF2.S,
474 AM) 587 GUO K G U STIIE E T,
BEVD foe gauge to test the sight-post free.
Personal Items.
Deeming has 13 recorded aliases. “ Thir-
teen—the devil’s number.”
Taylor gets two years for his £lOO,OOO.
Larkin gets six. Oh, law !
How very dwarfy Graham Berry is, with
Shiels joking at his dentist’s teeth !
Metaphorically speaking, Hargraves lived,
in latter years, on the sweepings of the Sydney
Mint.
Sir Alfred Stephen, (N.S.W.), is set down
in this year’s “ Whittaker” as a baronet— which
he isn’t.
Amongst the passengers by the Ormuz
from London on Saturday last was “ Mr. W. B.
Dailey.”
The new Bishop of Nelson, Maoriland, is
called Mules. A great many of his family are
in the business.
Sydney Burdekin has bled freely in Hing-
land —has found that there a man has to justity
his reputation as a millionaire.
Cabled that E. Wat kin, Bart., aged 73,
of Channel-tunnel celebrity, is going to marry
Mrs. H. Ingram (£300,000), aged 80.
O’Sullivan, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), says he
knows a local Judge who “eats a leg of mutton,
two fowls, and half a ham at a meal.”
When “Baron Swanston ” wrote telling
his “loving Katie” that he was “in grate trouble,”
he was evidently brooding over his hearthstone
worries.
The Duke of Westminster’s only joke :
“I sold Ormonde and Mr. Gladstone’s portrait
for the same reason—they were both incurable
roarers.”
Duncan Gillies says “one vote for
property and one for manhood will have my
support; it is the only legitimate scheme.” It is
a scheme right enough.
Those who claimed that Melbourne
defaulter Taylor was not sufficiently punished by
two years’ imprisonment must now hold their
peace. He is iu the Waxworks.
We sec it cabled that the German Emperor
has recovered from his cold. Imagine a king with
a cold —probably in his nose ! Why, he must
have corns, just like long M‘Kean.
William Holden still potters about on
S. A. Register, although 84 years old. The octo-
genarian journalist is as punctual and reliable as
the youngest member of the staff.
B. It. Wise was at latest in Loudon, and
spent mu h time under the gallery iu the House
of Commons. He expressed himself as much
astonished at the decorum with which debates are
conducted there.
Mrs. Petrie, navigator Flinders’ daughter,
was the oldest pensioner of N.S.W , having been
in receipt of £lOO a year since January 1, 1853.
She was 80 years of ago at death, having been
born two years before her father died in 1814.
According to the Mount Barker Courier,
S. A., there are still £7 to the credit of Adam
Lindsey Gordon in an Adelaide bank, whoso
representatives, for no doubt sound legal reasons,
decline to pay tbe money over to the poet's
widow, now Mrs. Low.
Rupert Clarke —Baronet Clarke’s heir-
apparent —recently went on an expedition to take
up land in Western Australia, but was ntt; rly
crippled and demoralised through drinking, and
returned very ill to Geraldton. Lest any mis-
apprehension should arise, wo hasten to explain
that it was bad water that he drank.
It is generally believed that the late Duke
ot Clarence’s affection for Princess May was
of very new growth ; that his first and only love
was the Princess Helene, of Orleans, daughter of
the Comte de Paris. The story goes that when
he was on his death-bed, he called out, “Helene,
Helene, where arc you?” He continued this for
so long that it was considered advisable to send
Princess May out of the room.
Mrs. Humphrey Ward, of “ Robert
Eismere” fame, is a grand-daughter of Colonel
Sorell, one of the first governors of Tasmania.
Tom Arnold, her father, was a son of old Dr.
Arnold, of Rugby. The Sorells are all noted for
their furious tempers. When Tom Arnold turned
Roman Catholic, his wife (a Sorell) went and
smashed the windowsof St. Joseph’s R.C. Church,
Hobart, and kicked up a terrible how-d’ye-do.
One of Spurgeon’s stock anecdotes. He
once met a labouring man shoving a big barrow
uphill, and perspiring profusely as be did so.
“It’s a hot day, my friend,” said tbe sympathetic
preacher. “ Yes, it is,” said the artizan, briefly,
“ and I never seed a man look more like standing
a pint of beer than you in my life.” Spurgeon
told that story at least fifty times, and yet he
died without once mentioning whether he stood
the pint of beer or not.
The Tasmanian Chief Justice (Sir Lambert
Dobson) says he does not believe in the “ bar-
barously long sentences sometimes inflicted,” and
thinks that short sentences meet most cases quite
as effectively as long ones. This is the judge who
was guilty—upon his own confession the other
day—of the heinous offence of giving, in the Port
Arthur days, pieces of tobacco to stray prisoners
whom he came across during his visits to the
“ convict establishment.” Shades of all the
“Commandants,” just think of it!
It is no secret that ever since the Tranby
Croft affair the relations between the Prince and
Princess of Wales have been strained. This did
not arise from the gambling incident, but from a
circumstance which was hinted at, but suppressed
at the time. It is common talk in London that
when the Princess last left England, ostensibly to
visit her sister, it was her intention not to return
to England. The illness of Prince George induced
her to come back suddenly, and so what promised
to be a very grave scandal was avoided.
Prince Alexander of Holland, tire second
son of the mad, dirty, snuffy old King William
who died a year or so ago, used to dress himself,
in his later years, in orange coloured petticoats
and a bustle and the other items of female costume.
Influential visitors who were introduced at Court
used to be a good deal staggered when they met a
crooked, warped, gnarled-looking, middle-aged
hag with an old, old, bleary eye and a hide-bound
expression and a glaring yellow frock, and were
told that this horrid apparition was a prince and
heir-presumptive to the throne of the Netherlands.
Alexander was buried in his female costume, and
bis aged father spilt his snuff helplessly into bis
grave; and then the Prince of Orange drank
himself into the same tomb, and the inebriated
monarch followed them, and the three old frumps
sleep together iu the royal mausoleum at Delft.
Europe possesses over 168,000,000 sheep ;
South America, overlol,ooo,ooo ; Australia, about
98.000. ; North America, 40,000,000; Asia,
36.000. and Africa, 29,000,000. N.S.W. is
more densely crowded with sheep than any other
country in the world, averaging 1491 jurnbucks to
the square mile.
According to the cable, “ Much anxiety is
felt as to the health of the Emperor William of
Germany, but as the greatest reticence is displayed
by his medical advisers, his actual condition is a
mystery. When the doctors are exceedingly
“ reticent” about a monarch it may generally be
assumed that the monarch is in a bad way. Just
twenty-four hours before this news arrived another
cablegram stated that William had “entered and
would personally sail tils yacht, Meteor, in the
race for the Queen’s Cup at Cowes.” That was
thrown in, most probably, to create an impression
that William is in rude health and must go out
and let loose his animal spirits. But the Kaiser
isn’t likely to go yachting, except in his own
EXIT IN THREE DIRECTIONS.
STIPENDIARY SOLON: “ What is the charge against this prisoner?”
INTILLIGINT OFFICER: “Ho was dhruuk an’ dishorduly in the shtrates lasht noight, yur
Wurship.”
S. S.: “Did you give him any warning before you took him into custody?”
I. O.: “Oi did, yur Wurship. Oi tapped him twicet on th’ shouldir and sed dispense, but
he wouldn’t, and he defoied me t’ make him do it.”
dominions, where ho could send anyone who got
in front of him to gaol for sedition.
A Kempsey (N.S.W.) farmer sent eighty
bags of potatoes to Sydney, and received nine
penny stamps as the net proceeds of sale.
Dear Bulletin, —In a last week’s paragraph
you say of M. 11. Davies that “ he blew a golden
soap bubble and it has burst. Still in the prime
of life and Devil’s Limbhood, he will rapidly make
another fortune.” Then he will blow more
bubbles, and dispose of them all for real gold
before they burst, perhaps. The restoration of a
bubble-blower is not a thing to be looked forward
to so complacently by the sharebrokers in certain
defunct banks. —E.
In the window of a “ non-society ” Mel-
bourne labour-agency :
Men of all kinds ready at any hour.
Wo see it coining :
We have pleasure in announcing to squatters and others
that we have just received, per s.s. Dollopeni, a large
consignment of men, and are prepared to sell them at
specially redneed prices. Some splendid lots of the well-
known “Hodge” brand, warranted not to growl, and to
work 17 hours per diem. Also, several batches of Italians
and Indian coolies, specially imported to suit the Austra-
lian climate ; guaranteed not to strike under any circum-
stances, and to thankfully receive any clothing, food and
wages which may be given them.
A sailor called at a holding on the Lachlan
River, owned by an eccentric old fellow nick-
named “’Cute-Eye,” asked for work, and was
engaged to drive a team consisting of one horse in
the shafts and two bullocks in tbe lead. All went
well until Jack was returning with a. dray-load of
wood, when, on coming through the gate, he hit
one of the posts. The wood slipped back and
tipped ttie dray up, and the horse hung up in the
belly-band. The bullocks turned the yoke and
faced the horse, and the near-side bullock got on
the off-side, and the off-side bullock got on the
near-side. “ ’Cuto-Eyo ” came running up, and
exclaimed “What is the matter, my man?’
“Why, can’t you see?” said the sailor, “the
port bullock has got on the starboard side, and
the blooming horse has gone up the rigging.”
An Aboriginal Othello.
A YARN FROM SPINIFEX LAND.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There is one thing about the outskirts of civili-
sation in Australia that does not come up to
generally-entertained ideas. Gambling is not
indulged in to the extent that some wnteis of
fiction would pretend. When I use the phrase
‘‘gambling” I mean card-playing. 1 here is a
great deal of play, but the stakes are never ruinous
nor are there any professional gamblers. A
“Jack Hamlin” is unknown, or he takes the
form of an obscure “spieler ” in constant danger
of being kicked. The romantic vagabond of Bret
Hai tc s creation does not exist. I’or all that, i
remember a strange stake being played for once,
and that stake cost the winner bis life.
I was down with the fever at the tune in fact,
everyone on the station had it more or less. 1 or-
tnnately, we all had our bad days and our good
days, and as they did not always fall together
there was generally somebody available to do the
necessary work.
The head station was 27 miles away, lucre
were four of us and a black boy on this out-station,
and on the night I write of two of the fellows
were camped out, I was down on my bunk with
the shakes, and Blake, who was all right, was
wondering how the deuce he was to kill the
evening. , . , ,
Samson, the black boy, was rather a remarkable
nigger. He was not tall, but, for breadth and
muscle he was a perfect Hercules; be was a
splendid rider, and had been partially educated
when a boy. He was an old policeman, and
escaped, half-dead, from the bands of the Uawson
blacks the night his more unfortunate officer got
his skull battered in. He turned out too insubor-
dinate for the police, and drifted into statio
employment.
“ I think I’ll get Samson in to play euchre,
said Blake, pricking up the drooping wick of the
slush-lamp. “It won’t disturb you, will it ?”
I intimated that at that particular peiiod 1
didn’t care if he got Setebos in to play euchre witli
him, and presently Samson, who, as an old police-
man, was, of course, a good euchre-player, was
seated in the hut playing with Blake.
How long they played I don’t know. I went off
into one of those halt-sleeps common to malarial
fever, and when I awoke I was in a gentle per-
spiration ; the languid feeling that always follows
the ague was on me, and there seemed no pleasure
on earth like that of lying on my hard bunk and
lazily dozing.
Blake and the boy were still playing. In a
dreamy kind of way I could make out that; also
they were quarrelling over their cards, and a name
was being bandied about. This was the name of
Samson’s gin, a handsome native woman belong-
ing to the district, generally supposed to be a half-
caste, the offspring of some shipwrecked sailor;
for these wore the days when the Far North was
first settled.
“ Monday,” which was the name of the gin, as
on that day the had been captured by Samson,
was a remarkable-looking woman. Unlike the
general run of the natives she had good features
and well-formed limbs ; she was c qiper-coloured,
not black. Samson was madly jealous of her ; and
it was with surprise, even in my lethargic state,
that I heard Blake say, “ Very well, let’s play for
Monday ! ”
I went off into a beautiful sleep, one that made
amends for all the rending and tearing of the ague.
I woke up to the noise of much swearing and
loud talk going on outside. The hut was nearly
dark, the wick of the slush-lamp was flickering to
its end. I gathered my blanket around me and
went out on my shaky legs to see what the trouble
was.
Samson was standing at the door of his grass
hut, hurling choice patois at poor Monday, who
had been rudely thrust out and her blankets
hurled after her. Blake was trying to interfere
and stop the quarrel.
“ What’s the matter?” I asked, with chattering
teeth.
“O, nothing. Samson kept losing,” returned
Blake, “and he proposed playing for Monday; 0 t
course I won, and now the d d fool takes it in
earnest, although I keep telling him it was only a
joke.’'
“ Come back to bed,” I said, “ and it will be all
right in the morning.”
Samson had somewhat subsided on hearing my
voice, and Blake went back with me into the
hut, in fact, had to half lift me to my bunk, f or
the night air had brought the ague on again, and
I went straight away into delirium.
I have often tried to recall the dreams of the
four-and-twenty hours that followed, but cannot
in any way connect them with the events that
really took place. At last I awoke to the fact
that somebody was holding my head up, and
trying to give me some broth with a teaspoon, j
opened my dull eyes and recognised in my voiuffi
nurse, Jim Brown, one of the two men who had
been camped out on the night in question. Tlic
fever had left me, and after a good drink of broth
I sat up and looked around. Both Brown and
Jackson (the other man) regarded me somewhat
curiously.
“ Did you hear anything of it?” said Brown at
last. “ You must have had a narrow squeak
yourself.”
“ Hear anything?” I echoed stupidly.
“When we came home,” said Brown, “ We
spotted niggers’ tracks all round the place. Blake
was lying down at the waterhole with his head
smashed in, and two empty buckets alongside
him. He had been killed while going down for
water. We found Monday with her head caved
in, but Samson’s body we have not found yet.
How, in the name of fortune, did they spare
you?”
I put my hands to my head and tried to think
and at last it came back to me, and I told the
other fellows about the game of euchre and the
silly joke that Samson had taken in earnest.
“ We’ll find him with the niggers,” said
Jackson. “And the sooner we start after thein
the better,” he added, grimly.
By the time the fresh horses came in I was able
to get about and determined to go with them.
The excitement gave me a little strength back.
It took us two days to track those niggers up,
and finally we caught them in a gorge. Samson
might have played up with us for he had
taken his carbine with him, but the fool had been
shooting kangaroos for the blacks, and when we
overtook them ho had not got a cartridge left,
I never found out how the niggers turned up so
quickly that time, unless they came with the in-
tention of attacking the hut, and Samson some-
how managed to make friends with them first;
anyhow, they let me off cheap.
BINGHI.
Francis Adams’ Fortnightly article robs
his judgments of value because of Ids painfully
laboured attempts at phrase-making, and portrait-
drawing with epigram. There are no half-tones
in his pictures, and the perspective is horribly
distorted. It is not the fidelity of the portraits,
but .the circumstances of location that identify
Lane, of the Worker, as “Laurie,” and David
Syme as “the Australian Greeley.” As to Pai-kea,
Adams has failed to grasp the one characteristic
of the man which explains both his successes and
his failures—-an enormous mental receptivity
operating with the vanity of the crude, self taught
man. And, with respect to Griffith and
M'llwraith, events, while the magazine was on its
way out here, have damned both the criticised and
the critic.
What People Say.
MRS: A. PREATT, ROWNTREE-STREET,
BALMAIN, N.S.W.
Writes : —"Having been a victim to advanced
liver disease for years, and tried all the medical
treatment the neighbourhood affords, I am only
too happy to bear witness to the wonderful results
obtained by the use of Clements Tonic. I have
been an inmate of the Balmain Cottage Hospital,
and have had the experience and attention of
every doctor in Balmain, being under their treat-
ment for months, all without the slightest benefit.
I suffered with chronic constipation, complicated
with an anal fistula, which rendered the action of
the bowels impossible without the use of instru-
ments, and the torturing was unbearable. I was
a martyr to headaches, always languid, tired, and
excessively weak, no inclination or ability to move
about, and totally unable to do any housework for
the last two years. I commenced the use of
Clements Tonic, and before I was through the
second bottle, the effect was really marvellous. I
could eat, work, and sleep, my pains and aches
ceased ; I felt a different woman entirely. My
bowels acted freely, and without any of the intense
pain I used to suffer. I have not the slightest
hesitation in stating that Clements Tonic is a
most wonderful and effective remedy ; it has cured
me, and made me strong again, when doctors and
hospitals have failed, t am only too pleased to
give my to timony in favour of Clements Tonic,
as it may be the means of saving other poor
sufferers from the misery and torture I have
endured. I recommended Clements Tonic to my
friends, and in every case where it has been used
it has been equally effective. 1 shall be only too
happy to give sufferers proofs of its virtues if
necessary.” |ji
This is another case which proves the truth that
Clements Tonic is a genuine article and that the
proprietors of it have no not'd to boast of the
virtues of their remedy as disinterested people
prove its merits.
As a toilet article, Ayer’s Hair Vigor stands
unrivalled. It cleanses the. scalp and removes
dandruff, cures itching humors, restores the
original color to faded and gray hair, and pro-
motes its growth.
B. Mountcastle& Sons, of Brisbane, Queensland,
are the leading shirt makers of the colony. Write
for patterns and directions of self-measurement.


Amidst the crash and financial panic the only
Genuine Investment is the
New Birmingham Estate,
MERRYEANDS,
Fourteen miles from the City. Torrens Title,
I'he deed is lodged and held by the Registrar
General of New South Wales. Volume, 1040 ;
rolio, 133, number of subdivision plan, 2733.
Write and verify this.
An Allotment can be purchased for £*7 >
10s. Cash Deposit and ss. Monthly. No interest.
■A . Free Deeds.
Buyers at a Distance can rely on Faithful Selection.
Postage stamps, money orders, taken for
deposits and instalments.
Also Allotments in Holroyd Park, 50 x 150, for
■£2o each. ,£1 cash. <£l monthly.
Plans, copies of deed on application to
E. C. Y. BROUGHTON,
301 Pitt Street, Sydney.
D B - RENDLE,
BRISBANE.
REGISTERED
Surgeon and Apothecary.
Opposite Post Office,
Advice by Letter if desired.
Medicines sent to any part of the Colony.
DRINK ONLY
LEFEBVEE & SONS' Prize
Australian Wines equal to
best French and Spanish vintages. Sold at Australian
vineyard quotations. Offices aud Stores: 520 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE, Vic.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
IMIORTER AND INDENT MERCHANT.
Latest Designs in
Tray Buggies* Jump-seat Buggies*
PHOTONS, CARRIAGES,
BUOKBOAKDS,
WAGGONS, CARTS, HARNESS, ETC.,
tST Send for Catalogue and Prices. -®Ji
22 & 24 CLARENCE STREET.
S'2‘332<TE'r.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Sbiels, regarded as a political dunk, is a
i „ Tory with a dash of Radical.
I vote for “ fixity.” Then why not a vote
for the dead? The dead are fixed.
T rU st no politician in a two-storey house-
-orVtwo-storeyV two- storey hat. This is allegorical, but it
' VII L ,O L. Smith says he is “a firm supporter
film Young Victorian Patriotic League, Of
° rge The young men “ don’t feel well.
i Conth Australia has fixed the legal maxi-
-1 of election expenses per candidate in a 2000-
at *lOO, including ad vert, s-
-10 Henniker Heaton finds Fergusson a much
. fll L,er customer than his old friend Raikes.
penny ocean-postage is still far in the dun and
d ' levies, or thinks it levies, a
void Diggers from the Pieman
however simply belt themselves with gold, and
take the Melbourne steamer.
“ Wanted two Kanakas to work in a
•> sa vs a recent Brisbane Telegraph
f,' iA ii A few years more of Griffilwraith and
you will see in all the papers, “No white man
need apply.” . . . . . . /0 x.
“ It is said that it is not right for this (y.)
Parliament to deal with the black-labour question.
There man he no moral rif/ht, but there is certainly
a legal and constitutional right.’’-Premier G rip-
pith, son of a moral parson.
Alleged that the N.S. W. Government dare
not proceed to apportion the Public Works Com-
mittee membership. There are 48 aspirants and
only eight offices, “ so that the Ministry, anyhow,
are bound to make 40 enemies.’
“ How about your title ? ” “ Take off the
‘Sir ! ’ ” shrieked the scoffing democracy of Bruns-
wick’(Vic.) at “Sir” Graham Berry. “I’ve a
right to be heard ! ” snorted G.B. “ Yes, but too
much title,” responded an elector.
Says Sydney Echo :
Canada rejected American reciprocity oceanse it in-
volved a hostile tariff to Great Britain. Good old Canada,
faithful to the last!
Yes, it’s now pretty near “the-last.”
Sir Charles Dilke, says London Figaro,
will ho returned for the 1' orest of Dean and w ill
ultimately succeed Gladstone as leader of the
Liberal party. John Morley won’t do at any
price, and there arc many who prefer Dilke to
llarcourt.
Lmnley Hill shows again in Bananaland
politics, though lie funked Barcoo election, llis
latest suggestion is that all Parliamentary
divisions should bo decided by secret ballot ! No,
Lumley. Frankenstein wants to ! see how his
monster works.
W. S. Caine thus predicts as to England's
political future :-(l) Universal payment of mem-
bers and election expenses; (2) abolition of the
House of Lords «uid substitution of the xieforeii-
dinn ; (3) Second ballots ; (4) man and woman
suffrage; (5) short Parliaments.
The day following the knocking-off of
450,000 from the N.S.W. military estimates, a
“retrenchment party ” member sent in an applica-
tion to the military authorities for the formation
of a reserve rifle company in his electorate. Iho
letter was promptly marked “ N.S.F.”
The St. James’s Gazette, as per cable-
gram, insists that a syndicate should take over
the Victorian Railways ! When Speight went to
England, it was reported he would collogue with
the Rothschilds, on buying the concern, and
evidently Vogel had some such mysterious com-
mission in Maoriland.
Although the Argus says that the Vic-
torian One-man-one-vote party are trying to drop
that measure, it is significant that all the candi-
dates who are in favour of democratic franchise
have been received every where at un-“ packed”
meetings with cheers; the other side has several
times had to retire from the platform.
The promoters of the “ Young Victorian
Patriotic League,” finding that it grew
slowly, determined to break down the age barrier,
and now the League is open to any man, no
matter what his nationality, who has a “stake ”
in the country. But why continue to call it the
“Young Victorian” League, its members being
neither young nor Victorian ?
Col. Templeton (of Melbourne) :
In connection with the Premier Permanent Building
Society prosecutions, the then Attorney-General ordered
that a warrant which had been issued for the arrest of a
director should not lie executed. I saw on that occasion
the anomaly of a detective having a warrant for the
arrest of a person, and hiding himself from the man
whom it was his duty to apprehend, because a Minister
had directed that the offender should not be arrested.
The total value of N.S.W. lands held in
private ownership is £178,500,000. Half of these
alienated lands are held by 520 persons, who own
more than half their value, since they have the
pick of the lot. Again, 656 freeholders, outside
of the boundaries of cities, towns and townships,
possess among them 20,847,216, or 50.65 per cent
of the total area ( outside , die.) alienated from the
State.
Australasian Pastoralists’ Review says
that the stoppage of Kanaka labor in Queensland
was, “in a measure, due to Sir Samuel Griffith.”
This is the unkindliest cut of all. Nine years ago,
Sir Sam. was the animating soul of the whole
anti-Kanaka movement, the public denouncer of
the South Sea Slave-trade, and the “Our Sam.”
of the masses. Now, he is the apostate who has
turned Blackbirder himself.
A very few years ago Griffith announced,
at a public meeting, in Brisbane, that should
black-labour triumph he would leave Queensland
with his family, as that country would then bo
unfit for a white man to live in. This leaves just
two alternatives; either Griffith isn’t a white
man, or else he is the sort of white man who is
eminently fitted to live in places that aren’t fit for
any other kind of white man to live in.
A surreptitious Chinaman sneaks into
Queensland from the Northern Territory. The
border police catch him and run him back some
miles. “ Welly good.” Johnny goes serenely on
for a day, camps for a week, and trots back into
Queensland. He is caught again, and fined £5O
or six months. “Also welly good; likewise no
savee ; sposee no gotee, how can payee ?” So the
yellow-skin “goes up;” loafs on Government for
six months, and thus earns the right to a free run
all over Queensland.
At the first meeting of the bogus “ Young
Victorian Patriotic League,” at Melbourne
Athenaeum, when the (packed) audience declined
to hear the opposition speakers, the Argus
praised the noble young Victorians who refused to
be dominated by the Trades Hall. When the
men of Collingwood, however, refused to give the
League a hearing, but cheered Hancock when he
spoke, the Argus said it was a most disgraceful
thing, especially as the League had rented the
hall. “lam in the place where,” &c. Bah !
A GUILTY CONSCIENCE—NEW VERSION.
TEACHER: “ Who made the heavens and the earth?"
BOY (who had broken a window): “Twarn’t me, sir?"
Minister O’Connor, M.L.C., sat in his
Ministerial chair, as if glued to the seat, whilst
club-friend after club-friend of N.S.W. Chief
Railway Commissioner Eddy reviled Labour-
member Schey, M.P., in bitter terms for challeng-
ing a Parliamentary inquiry into the commission-
system of management. Both President Lackey
and Minister O’Connor committed a gross breach
of Parliamentary etiquette in allowing ex-
Attorney-General Simpson to allude to a deba'o
in “ another place,” or to a measure therein pend-
ing. Would the mildest allusion to John Davies,
of Casual Labour Board fame, or to dual-pensioner
Manning be allowed by Speaker Abbott ?
Sydney D.T. leading article
The glamour raised bv the advocates of Protection has
already passed away. There is neither sign of the up-
springing of new industries nor of a revival of trade.
The clamours of the N.S.W. unemployed are as loud as
ever and their numbers are still large.
So very like the Telegraph. N.S. Wales tried
Foreign-trade for over 50 years, and the millen-
nium didn’t come. It has now tried Protection—
in a very milk-and-water way—for three months
and the millennium hasn’t come either. And
because mild Protection hasn’t done in three
months what cast-iron Foreign-trade didn't do in
50 years, therefore Protection is utterly bad and
Foreign-trade is superlatively good.
“ Did you ever know an election which did
not involve the death of the Government which
conducted it?” asks the Kapunda Herald (S.A.).
We have— now and then, but very, very seldom.
As an almost invariable rule the Government goes
smash at a general election because it is so utterly
rotten and bad that the country thinks it can’t
get a worse one. Therefore, it puts the other
party in, and at the earliest opportunity it bounces
it out again on the ground that it is also so bail
that it can’t be worse. And having bounced
out the second party, the electors go back to the
first one. and find it no better than it was before.
The choice lies between the devil the country
knows and the devil it has partly forgotten about,
and they sit on the nation’s chest turn-about.
Black-labour is a cumulative disease.
Many of its Queensland votaries are now dis-
seminating the theory that, if sugar-planters are
allowed to employ Kanakas, all classes of
employers should be permitted to enjoy (!) the
same privilege (!). That evidences the danger to
white workers, whose duty is to damn the slave-
trade every time it is advocated, to pill it at every
ballot-box, to bash it crushingly every time it
rears its ugly snout above the surface of politics.
The cry may yet be given out and responded to—
“ Boston-tea the cheap Kanakas !”
Premier Shiels proposes a rule-of-thumb
system for the Victorian Civil Service reduction,
which fails altogether to meet the case. He tried
at first to make the departmental heads propose
the reductions, but they wouldn’t. The increment
and pension system is a remnant of the era when
O’Shanassy tried to quarter every Irishman on the
State —and then the Argyles came to the post,
but never the poor English. The high-waged
Civil-servant is a byeword for improvidence.
The tailaw, butchaw, grocaw, bakaw, are his
natural enemies, as may be seen on any fraud-
summons day.
The S.M. Herald, in a parliamentary
note ;
The object was to test the whole system of pensions,
and, of course, all the political faddists rushed at once
to the front. Mr. Allen grew excited about the matter,
and proposed to place tram-guards and lawyers on the
sune basis as regards salary and pension. That is to say,,
he does not admit that the special talent of the highly-
trained lawyer entitles him to any further consideration
than the most mechanical worker.
The tram-guard gets .£l2O a year : the Judge gets
“further consideration” to the tune of at least
£2500 annually. Why should the fat hog be fur-
ther greased, O Fairfax, at the expense of the
mere mechanical worker ?
The dignity of a king, even a dead one, is
an awful circumstance. King Charles of Wurtem-
berg —an old, drunken, pimpled monarch of un-
mentionable habits-died some months ago, and
Kaiser William of Germany was at the funeral.
All the same, Kaiser William didn’t know offici-
ally that the ancient potentate was gone until he
was informed of the circumstance by special pleni-
potentiary or ambassador, and the plenipotentiary
couldn’t turn up until his mourning and his
credentials wore ready, so for nearly two months
after the funeral, the Kaiser really didn't know
whether Charles was dead or not. But at last a
special envoy arrived with crape all over him, and
with a countenance of profound woe he handed in
a document, edged with three inches of murky
midnight, and setting forth, amid much circum-
locution, that King Charles was dead, deceased,
caved in, defunct, departed, bowled out, and a
g oner _ a l so , that he was buried. Then William
and the envoy each dropped a solemn tear at this
unexpected intelligence, and wiped it k away with
a black silk handkerchief. Next the envoy backed
out, and a minute later he came back witli white
gloves on, with no crape, and wearing an expression
of joy, and handed the emperor another document,
edged with gold and purple, announcing the
accession of the new monarch. And after that
they were both aware of the fact for the first time,
and the bill for this show was about .£BOO.
“ India, which before the British occupa-
tion —Bradlaugh told me-presented the har-
monious condition of universal industry ramifying
in all directions, has greatly changed. Britain,
after destroying all the national industries, has
appropriated all the profits created by India,
lienee, there prevails throughout India a state of
ever-deepening misery, whereof the world has
never afforded a more fearful example. And this
misery is not due to the conduct of the natives,
but to the deplorable English system. Between
1802 and 1854, thirteen famines swept away five
millions of human beings. Between 1860 and
1879, sixteen famines- earned off twelve millions.
The entire human race has lost, from 1793 to 1890,
in all wars : 4,500,000 units. India, in 20 years,
lost by famine alone 4,349,922. Between 1877 and
1883 the total deaths reached, 30,431,182. To all
the previous causes of this “ frightful distress ” is
added another : a limited number of Hindoos are
driven to perform, unaided, the work of the
whole nation, thus bolstering up their own
position and hindering their brethren from
earning a wretched wage. Twenty-one million
male adults are thus without employment.
In the coffee industry, for instance, that
yields England 38 millions annually, 7000 Hm-
does perform work that ought to employ 180,000
persons. In the coal industry, seven companies,.
with an aggregate capital of 10,500,000 francs,
realise annually 14 millions, while they expend,
for the wages of their 24,000 miners, barely one
million. To cap all, the national resources, to
the extent of 96’5 per cent, are in foreign hands.
Monopolies have increased by 1500 per cent, in 54
years. In 1835 they amounted to only 50 millions
of francs, in 1889 t 0750 millions.” — Martin Laya,
in Le Voyeur Illustre, April 16, 1891.
A VICTORIAN VOTER’S DILEMMA.
I’ve little faith in lawyer Shiels,
And none in Graham li.,
I’d dangle Gillies by the heels
From any shady tree ;
Alf. Deakin’s star is on the wane,
O’Loghlen is a goat;
All day I ask my puzzled brain
To tell me how to vote. .
I don’t believe in sacking Speight
(A clumsy trick) although
It really seemed that, soon or late,
His Nibs would have to go.
I do not want a tax on beer
To please the flabby “ tote.”
Election day is drawing near—
And how am I to vote?
I want my income left alone,
It wouldn’t stand a wrench.
Yet all the same I sadly groan,
“ The country must retrench.”
We need a Ministry as smart
As Joseph’s coloured coat,
But cannot get ’em, bless your heart !
And how am I to vote ?
I will not take the Argus tips
And virtues make of crimes,
I simply snort and curl my lips
At rags like Mister Syme’s.
The “fancies” of the Telegraph
Are seldom worth a groat,
Its cries excite a bitter laugh—
Then how am I to \ote?
The “ Ins ” are such a feeble push,
The “Outs” are very shy ;
This p dicy is utter both
And that is all my eye ;
But one must do the best he can
To “ keep the ship afloat”—
Trot out a decent working-man
And he shall have my vote.
Phil. Robinson is to resurrect St. Stephen’s
Review.
There is a Sydney publican named
Gladstone Eaton. Sounds like Tory cannibalism.
Lawyer (sarcastically) : “ Perhaps, sir,
you may have heard of Ananias and Sapphira ?”
Witness: “ Yis, they were loiars J”
In Whittakers’ Almanack for 1892,
Melbourne, Ballarat, Adelaide, Perth and Tas-
mania are given as being in Queensland !
An Adelaide hotel-landlady asks the
papers what she should do. about the teetotal
spies who hang around watching her house on
Sundays. We should do quite a lot of things.
On a broiling hot Sunday we would hire a sprinter
and let him depart with much ostentatious secresy
by the back door with a bottle of salt water
sticking out of his pocket, and after the teetotaller
— who is probably fat—has run ten miles after him
and fainted twice from sheer exhaustion we
would let him overtake his enemy and sample the
bottle. On a wet Sunday wo would fix up some
“suspicious circumstances” which would keep
the teetotallers on the qui rive so that they would
wait around in search of further evidence till they
were hopelessly soaked and suffering from rheu-
matism. Other days we would start dogs after
them, and prove subsequently, by three com-
petent witnesses, that they weren’t our dogs and
we had never seen or heard of them before. And
in between these performances we would treat the
teetotallers, and then get them disrated from the
lodge for backsliding. The landlady who doesn t
know what to do with a teetotaller on Sunday
must be a female of very little resource.
“The Lectures on the History of Litera-
ture ” by Carlyle, just published in India, have a
somewhat curious history. They were delivered
by Carlyle in ’38 to small audiences, and were, in
ail likelihood, regarded by the author as mere
pot-boilers, unworthy of publication. One of his
hearers, however, was Thomas Chisholm Anstey.
He reported them for his own use, and it is from
Anstey’s MSS. that the present book is printed.
Young Anstey was a son of Thomas Anstey, J.P.,
of Anstey-Barton, one of the famous Midland
estates in Tasmania (which figures in this week’s
story by “Price Waning”), now in the possession
of the Pages. His early education was communi-
cated partly by William Thomson, afterwards the
noted cattle-breeder of Keilambete, Western
Victoria, but he had for his French master no
less a person than Jorgen Jorgenson, the ex-
traordinary character of whom Marcus Clarke
wrote: —
All the raven-haired, hot-headed, supple-wristed soldiers
of fortune that ever diced, drank, duelled, kissed and
escaladed their way through three volumes octavo, never
had such an experience.
Jorgenson was for ten weeks Governor of Iceland,
having deposed the Danish Governor. He was
removed from power as unceremoniously as he had
assumed it by the commander of a British sloop-
of-war, and, after a number of vicissitudes,, was
transported to Van Demonia for forgery—which
was not his first visit to the island, as he had been
present at the founding of the colony. For a time
he was magistrate’s clerk to Mr. Anstey, and
coached young Anstey in French. The young
fellow went, in due course, to an English Uni-
versity, to the Bar, and into Parliament for an
Irish seat. He was the first native of an Austra-
lian colony to sit in the House of Commons. For
appropriate services to Government he was
pitchforked into an Indian judgeship, whereby he
by no means distinguished himself. Duffy has a
lot to say about him in one of his Young Ireland
histories, but Duffy did not know that Anstey had
been rudimentarily educated by a convict, for he
could not have resisted the temptation to cynically
allude to it. Jorgenson, by the way, figures pro-
minentlv in Hall Caine’s story, “ The Bondman ”
—but the drawing of the story, while powerful, is
distinguished by the amplest departure from fact.


Has it Cone to TNii . , „
P H- P Cjinjnjc a passfor Self cupd h/ife fo * „
Tktln/ay Official _ "
V'
s> \
>#
C '
STANPINC ROO/V)
o L V '
' Loraik Tbnrsday.4-The Salvation
Army his opened a Ms trimonial Bureau
in Loud jo. Colonel Banker, formerly of
being in chaise.
Ar)A all !Re "I
are jflfi/g jy< for i ion #
Mr. Neild asks the
Colonial Secretary the following important
on cations : —»
1. Is he aware that the bodies of a con-\
siderable number of infanta have recently \
been seen issuing from the main sewer at
Ben Buckler ?
2. Is it a fact, that it is possible for the
man-holes connected with the sewers to bo
opened by persons desiring to place infanta,
or the bodies of infants, therein ?
If so, will he cause such man-holes to bs
secured forthwith!
JoffM lull Looh 'ere rje cuqclyouis Jlje Etfhsl/tyeaf-
\rf peoples tirrj'f in/e - Jfem bef'! J-BuLL- &yd rft
arnT a-aonjcf to ha\fe )0 words 01 fer fys 'ere floDus VWbHV/ .
'JOA/ATIj/frM - - So !
fm RAHWAY SCHB7 TERRIER ANDTHE UTTLt POY.
Mr Lopy -" 1 S/\y, C/\u oFF/oukJ>os
Stl All m- ', W\\y you Kick ? - r
f'jß E "Cause Chats not h/H/it I’n Paid foR. ’
FIGW T/N(j FPITORS OFFICE
I. _Bu)~i et~i 7
>^y.
to
W(?RJ£ rdAN TFte iVeATriea.
Office J)ore~ " Wfyat dye fyi/ilof
Merfiric-i ? '*
Oar FujHTi/MCj Editor a,\ns
Option ayrewnfecLly fait/
A LOOK ALL ROUND.


n
5n . a _ -if
|H £loqU E .Nca
08, Th * jj.gjj-ji jj |
Jfei© I i<® c %IC9
Put your- ■Akote '>~7 lJ . S^
tke
'.ernrrvent that scr.i , ( .
[Tmro y unr ° ’ H 5 a r.
+Ke Country V^f
be
/s m._o y g a b
T j^sT
HOST
' r 3/
'M.L, °* e “ P uft 6/>°&
lM° l°P h are Jur m ""
U*t
] reoll 7 f^rr^/
"c*s of JO re *
Iff
Hl-0 Honot' gflvs, if - it, <pife pois'iLle scCi*^ e C
rp,s«ppf’ 0 p p ' a4e.cl money 50 f Kat t'HenvciyeS ar
■pet irr> 1 1 ifi sop 4Ke ev**i, coulcl fmcl ih>
IN
<3+" JP,c.Kuco
lool\ er*«2 orfo r*<
Vet* sumj hup )
"to dd ctres**, joory
a e s%
b a
"
rK-tScAyl
m pea nit ®
i Vpeac ocls^
l/Tl o'rit Con "
/; s »de r» m«=
r f m> ok 1 e -pi" ern ver*
do waaf" is b«2&+ forif^
QtL.'nci-’ % lei , 1 et
Qmen " \*eQC 0 d<£or<'
Vcu'fl k>e a bn*d o f Po
f when* ’Vou di e «
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


SIR W. C. F. ROBINSON
ON WEST AUSTRALIA.
“ New life and activity ave apparent on every side.
Population is flowing’ in, and new industries are being
started. The value of property is increasing. West
Australia will shortly be known as one of the most im-
portant gold bearing countries in the world.”
“The climate is one of the finest in the world. It is the
land of fruits, flowers, and vineyards, and the wine-grow-
ing industry will soon be an important one.”
We offer on easy terms, or for cash, specially
selected allotments at
PERTH AND ALBANY.
Good Land, splendidly situated, from TEN POUNDS
per lot upwards.
Send or write for plans to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
ST. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A. ; OR
339 Pitt-streefc, Sydney, N S.W.
W. T. DOUGLAS, Manager.
New American Bar
(Theatre Royal Hotel'',
Cl CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
A. Malsli, rroprlelor
(Laic of the Occidental Hotel, San Francisco).
•Ins. A. Walsh and his assistants, American barkeepers,
continue to cater to the Sydney Public, and their Gin
Fizzes, Champagne Cocktails, Milk Punches, Manhattan
Cocktails, are the rape of the town. Mr. Walsh, while
thanking his friends for their generous patronage, begs
to inform them that only the best brands of Spirits,
Wines, and Cigars are sold at this house. If you have
not tried one of Walsh’s Gin Fizzes this hot weather
you had better do so.
JUST OUT.
LIFE OF c. S PARNELL,
By T. P. O’O ON NO 11, M.T.
Price (post .nee), Is. Hd.
“ Mr. O’Connor has eertaihly surpass.(l IHmsclf in (bo
writing of Ibis intensely interesting work. ... No
newspaper notice, however full, can jfivc any adequate
impression of the career as is here depicted of (be great
Irishman who has gone. Mr. O'Connor's book itself should
be in the bands of everyone who is interested in the
brilliant and stormy career which is ended for ever. . .
A delightful, graphic and biographical sketch of one of
the most remarkable figures of the century."—Dublin
Freeman's Journal.
Finn Bros. & 00.,
MO George Street, SYDNEY.
A BOON TO HUMANITY
’Tis food for young and food for old,
It gives new life and vital power,
There's nothing in the market sold
Like Pe.mkll’h patent Snowwiutr Flour.
How to Grow Rich.—lnvest in land at
Perth, W. A. Plans from Intercolonial Invest-
ment Co., Limited, 30!) Pitt-street, Sydney.
p ur Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Use Batiio’s Baking Powder.
Queenslanders must have large heads ! r lh°
celebrated firm of hatters, B. Mountcastle & Sons,
Albert-Street, Brisbane, keep hats in stock up to
size 7f.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Write to Messrs. Pike Bros., Brisbane,
for price-list of their goods for gentlemen’s wear;
also for self-measurement forms ana pattern
from the Tailoring Department.
Society
Tho manager of the Australia Hotel,
Sydney, asks the Postmaster-General to stop the
clanging of the G.1*.0. bells every night between
11 p.tn. to 5 a.m. The P.M.G., in effect, ‘‘ puts
his thumb against his nose and spreads his fingers
out,’ with tho remark —“ Why, them ’ere bells
c >st £oon.~’ This tangential answer is met by
0 h t objectors with the argument that, if the
bills got their regular night’s rest, they would live
all the longer. At which interesting phase, the
discussion has been adjourned sine die.
# # *
r J li 3 letter in S.M. Herald, denouncing
the proposed release of the murderer Bertrand, is
signed “S.” —with a view, perhaps, to its being
rttrdmtel to Sir Alfred Stephen, who should
Iro nptly deny its authorship. “ S.” rtfgtles that
the Mount Ronnie affair, “ for which we hanged
several youths,” did not compare in atrocity with
Bertrands. Which is a poor argument, con-
s dering that the Mount Rennie youths were not
tried but lynched, not executed but assassinated,
and that there is every reason to believe that, at
least, one of them had no share whatever in the
transaction. The Bulletin is in favour of the
abolition of capital punishment, and so would
keep such a man as Bertrand in gaol literally for
life. However, there is no earthly reason why
Bertrand should bo made an exception to the
general practice of releasing a prisoner who has
served the actuarial term of his life-expectancy,
simply because he has offended specially against
certain influential members of high society.
# # *
If Doeming’s fits are epileptic it is
very likely that the man is irresponsible. In
England or France no epileptic ever suffers the
extreme penalty of the law.
« # *
It is now evident that Deeming is the
original bogey-man who struck Buckley ; he is
likewise the man who killed Cain. Also, the
South Sea savage who killed Captain Cook,
# # #
Newsboy: “Paper, sir?—penn’orth o’
Deemin’ ? ”
# * «
A fellow-passenger with “Albert Wil-
liams ” on the Kaiser Wilhelm 11. tells a Bulle-
tin correspondent that “ Williams ” made himself
extremely popular with the ladies on board. He
fairly oozed with respectful attentions to the fair
sex, for whom he retrievered all round in the
finest fetoh-and-carry style. Some instances A
child of one of the passengers one day came on
deck shod in indiarubber-bottomed canvas shoes,
the soles of which were loose. “ Williams” volun-
teered to mend the bottines, took them down to
his cabin, and, in a few minutes, returned with
them as good as new- thoroughly “ cemented,” in
fact. “ Williams’s ” cabin was a regular workshop,
always remarkable for littered chips and multi-
farious odds - and - ends. One of his favourite
pastimes was to carve out toy boat-models for
children, with whom he was as popular as with
their mothers and aunts. One interesting little
boy used to haunt the man’s cabin, with his tiny
arm hugging affectionately “Williams’s” waist,
while “Williams” was executing for him the
model of a ship. “ Williams ” promised to visit
that lad in Sydney and there make for him a
model of a locomotive. -Now, the little man is
continually asking his parents—“ When is Mr.
Williams coming to see us and make me an
injin?” When, indeed?
# # *
Dear Bulletin. — I beg to forward you
my photograph to place among the portraits of
celebrities of the day. I believe I am the only
resident in Australia of 20 years’ continuous
sornewhereness who never met the murderer
“Williams,” who was never swindled by him,
and who was never even written to by him in
relation to any female relative. Alas! lam now
famous. —Yours, The Dipsomaniac.
* * *
A respectable female, who was Deeming’s
landlady at one time, ,now comes to the front to
state that she was always of opinion that ho was
“haunted.” She didn’t mention it to anybody at
the time, but she distinctly remembers now that
the idea occurred to her. Also, the sister of Mbs
Rounsevelle positively recollects that she was sus-
picions about him, only apparently she forgot to
say so till the other day." At the same time, she
wrote gushing letters to the baleful lover, and told
him that she regarded him “as a brother.” It
was ever thus. If it transpired—which, of
course, it couldn't-that that pleasant pun-
ster, of the beaming face, Mr. Zox, had
murdered somebody when he was young,
upwards of sixty people would rue up at once to
swear that he always had a haggard, hunted look
in his eyes, that he would shriek if left alone in
the dark, that ho saw ghosts, and moaned in his
sleep, and used to babble incoherent words about
skulls and dead men’s bones ; also, that sometimes,
when he was engaged in conversation, he would
suddenly grow pale and his knee? would bang
together, and then he would utter a piercing
scream and run away. And then it would pro-
bably turn out that it wasn’t Zox who had com-
mitted the crime, and everybody would straightway
retract all these statements again.
* * #
Mr* Deeming left among his correspond-
ence an unfinished letter to his latest lady-love.
It winds up thus !
1 am pleased to hoar that Lizzie had a nice time of it in
Sydney, but it must ho very lonely for you. lam also
pleased, darling, to hear you are well and enjoying such
good health. God bless you ! I wish you were here, 1
am so lonely hy myself. Words will not express the
feelings and happi iess I look forward to where the ”
The writer stopped just hero—perhaps to be
hanged.
* • •
Snake-story told by Dr. J. C. Cox, F.L.S.,
of Sydney. A brother scientist had fallen upon
alcoholic times, and to keep him straight the
veteran naturalist despatched him on a collecting
tour. Suspecting that the evaporation which
always occurred in the spirit-drum was not wholly
due to natural causes, he slipped, aceidentally-
like, a b’ack snake into the next consignment.
The following mail brought a letter from the
prodigal. “ Your case,” said he, “came safe to
hand, and yon will be glad to hear that the
hoplocephalns porphyreticus much improved tho
flavour.”
# # #
Poor honest, valiant Jos. Symes, Aus-
tralia’s toughest atheist, has just lost his wife, and
like the philosopher he always tries to be proceeds
calmly to publicly estimate her. “She never
passed Oyer the record of a Crime or a calamity
without demanding where was god (with a small
*g’)then?”‘ Jos. is not humorist enough, he is
ton much in deadly earnest, to see that in this the
deceased lady merely illustrated the parrot-liko
A WEAKLY ORGAN.
DOCTOR: “Unfortunately, your circulation is not as good as it might be.”
NEWSPAPER PROPRIETOR (thinking of his little “rag”): “No, but th nk heaven, the advertise-
ments are coming in.”
proclivity of woman to repeat things dinned into
her ears. The query quoted is the one which Jos.
liimself is eternally reiterating. Tell a woman
something to-day and she will give it back to you
to-morrow as an original piece of wisdom.
* * *
“One touch of nature makes the whole
world kin.” The following appears in The
Colonies and India (London)
Mr. Burdett Smith, between whom and the late-
lamented Duke of Clarence, a warm friendship sprang up
during tho Prince’s visit to the Antipodes with his
brother a few years ago, was intensely grieved when
the news reached him of ihc Duke’s death.
How does Cupid manage it?
* * *
A great deal of nonsense, says The Bul-
letin's correspondent, was published in the
Sydney papers about Florence Saville. It is a
fact, however, that Marches], under whom she is
diligently studying in Paris, thinks very highly of
her capabilities.
« » *
The forthcoming marriage of Miss Maude
Levey, daughter of the late Montague Levey, of
Sydney', to “ The Honorable” Gustave Bonaimi,
a Captain in the Italian army, is announced to
take place shortly in Florence. It is indeed a
novelty to find an Italian dubbed the “ Honor-
able.”
# # *
If you want to see Tantalus surfeit at the
eye and pine at the maw, just row past Garden
Island, Beautiful Harbour, some afternoon, and
see the envious telescope of the British tar sur-
veying that humble paradise dotted with lovers-*-
Lady Macquarie’s Chair.
* # •
No judge, no magistrate who sits on
bench shoo'd belong to any Secret Society. The
Bulletin hopes one day to see the fitness of a
secret-society judge publicly challenged by a
suitor, who will continue hischallenge with respect
to any other judges belonging to the same or ony
other secret society who may bo put forward to
preside.
* # *
Another thing. No Supreme Court Judge
who hears a matrimonial case should permit the
lady interested to enter his private house during
the trial of that case, especially at night.
There was a general public impression
that the late quiet-going Sir John Hay, President
of N.S.W. Legislative Council, was a very rich
and a very “near” man. He was certainly never
ostentatious in his liberality, but an examination
into his estate made by his executors affords a
striking illustration of how very little the public
often know of the real character of some of its
most prominent public men. Sir John Hay was
so sensitively secretive that even his wife was not
fully aware of the open-handed manner in which
he privately spent his money in deeds that were
as modest as they were healthfully philanthropic.
The old man never kept any private accounts,
save his cheque and bank-books, and from these
it has now become apparent that he gave away
nearly the whole of his income every year. In
his personal habits he was so simple that the ex-
penses of his own establishment came easily
within his income as President of the N.S.W.
Legislative Council, although ho kept open house
for a largo number of friends and his continued
hospitality was chiefly founded upon a delicate
and kindly benevolence, lie was a most liberal—
but often unknown—patron of the scientific and
charitable institutions of N.S.W., and his name
was seldom absent from any wholesome subscrip-
tion-list, besides appearing in others concerning
which there were sectional differences of opinion,
lie could have profitably quitted his large interest
in the Mercantile Bank of Sydney, and avoided
all chance of loss by unloading to the public, but,
though the bank’s practical collapse cost him
many thousands of pounds sterling, he never sold
a single share. But he did even more than stand
by the ruin. Several ladies had taken shares in
that bank chiefly on his recommendation, and he
had such a rarely-seen sense of honour that, as a
matter of duty, he insisted on paying these
ladies the full extent of their losses.
* # *
Mr. Maxfced, N.S.W. Inspector of Chari-
ties, is a humourist. He writes :
At the same time 1 may mention that I have already
brought under the notice of the board of the asylum the
unreliableness of statements made by women concerning
the paternity of their children.
There's an original revelation for you ! However,
to do Mr. Maxtor! justice, that is not the only
thing ha has found out. For instance, he lets the
public know that there is in Sydney a private
lying-in home where 90 illegitimate births took
place in the one year, only seven of which were
officially recorded. In another private lying-in
home where GO or 70 illegitimate births occurred
during the year, the matron told him she thought
it quite unlikely that any of the infants were
registered, as the bulk of the women came to her
under assumed names. Then Mr. Maxted in his
travels met one “ woman in the habit of receiving
infants for adoption for <£s. and taking them
round to unsuspecting persons, promising payment
of 7s. Gd. a week, and then disappearing.”
# * #
Larkin, whose frauds amounted to £60,000
at least, gets six years’ hard in Victoria. J. P.
Howe, who only “did” his society out of £OOO,
got seven years in Sydney.
* * •
The affairs in insolvency of “ Hanker ”
Friedman, of Sydney, are now commencing to
assume a low-comedy aspect. Friedman’s adopted
nephew or something like that, who arrived in
N.S. Wales about eight years ago, but who
doesn’t know how old he was when he came; who
might then have been 10 years old, or might have
been 15; who knew no English, and when he
commenced school started in the infants’ branch ;
who had £l5O on arrival, which he “ always kept
about Ills person,” and who since then had lent
his uncle £2300 in all; who speculated in shares,
but doesn’t know what shares, and who won £3OO
in “TattersalTa Sweep;” and who has been
debited in Friedman's books with a lot of money
recorded over erasures —well, the world yearns
to hear more about this noble youth.
# * *
Tremendous influence is being brought to
bear to burke the Royal Commission appointed to
enquire into the V.D.L. Bank (Tas.) smash,
because it is now understood that Government
wants to see if evidence is strong enough to
institute criminal proceedings.
* * *
Bohemia (Melb.) speaks of the Cornstalks
as “N.S. Welch era.” Nasty !
#• * *
Again rumoured that Lady Jersey intends
going “ home.”
* * *
Graham Berry implores the people of Vic-
toria to “try to see themselves with English eyes*
in this time of depression !
Lady Hopctoun's baby already shows a
violent antipathy to the horrid Victorian climate*
Tootsicnrna was very fretty indeed last week.
“BREAKING IT GENTLY.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
All was up with Richard Tanner—
"Wait-a-Bit” we called him. Dead?
Yes. The braceman dropped a spanner.
Landed Richard on the head ;
Cracked his skull, sir, like a lea-cup,
Down the pump-shaft in tbe well
Braceman hadn’t time to speak up.
Tanner never knew what fell.
When we fetched him to the surface,
Dick had struck, and got a rise—
See how dark that patch of turf is !
There he bled before our eyes.
And we stood around him, gory
I.ike himself, and just as pale,
Wondering who would tell the story,
Who would tell his wife the tale.
No one liked to undertake it,
No one on the shift would stir ;
But Pat Ryan said he’d break it
‘‘Nately break the news to her.”
Pat’s a splitter, and a kinder
Heart I never want to know.
Stephens told him where to find her,
Begged him gently deal the blow.
In a very solemn manner
Ryan met the dead man’s wife—
“ Homin’ to yez, Widdy Tanner !”
Says he gravely. “ Such is life !”
“ ]'m no widow !” says she, prying
.For the joke in Ryan’s eye.
“’Sense me, mum,” says Paddy, crying,
“’Sense me, mum, hut that's a lie.”
E. D.
0, see yourselves with English ejes,
Says Graham Berry, knight.
Yes, open them in wild surprise
And shudder at the sitflit:
Cut when those eyes have fairly gazed
On all that you have done,
Don’t turn away, amused, amazed,
And wink the other one.
f ray, sec yourselves with English eyes
Through best Imported specs.,
And fasten silk-imported ties
Around your lo.tal necks ;
And clothe yourselves in English suits
Of fashion span and spick,
And buy a pair of British hoots
To give yourselves a kick.
Yea, see yourselves with English eyes,
And hear with ditto cars,
And lie the ancient English lies,
And love the House of Peers ;
Stick closely to tha “ mother land,”
Then bye and bye you shall
Beg once again, w'tb cap in hand,
For English Capi-tal.


The Commercial Agency
Trading & Banking Co.,
Limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1871.
CAPITAL Authorised, £500,000.
Heaxl Office:
379 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Sydney Arcade).
NEWCASTLE BRANCH—HUNTER STREET.
J. E. TONKIN, Esq., M.P., Ciiairman of Directors.
FRANK FARNELL, Esq., M.P., Vice-Chairman.
Make advances on Approved Mercantile, Agricultural,
and Pastoral Securities, Negotiate Mortgages, and transact
all usual
BANKING BUSINESS.
Special Facilities Accorded to Mercantile Clients.
DEPOSITS RECEIVED
at the following rates of interest:
12 months .. ~ .. 7 percent.
fi months C per cent.
3 months '.. C per cent.
Payable Quarterly, Half-Yearly, or Annually as arranged,
Depositors of 12 Months Renewed, and longer peiiods.
Share in Bonus out of Profits of the Company.
JOHN H. NATHAN, General Manager.
PHOTOGrRAPHIC
GOODS.
esis
“MY OPTICIANS,”
(11. S. JERDAN & CO.)
uvi eeokge street, svioev,
Are the best and cheapest people for all kinds
of Photo. Goods for Amateur or Professional.
A complete Photographic Outfit, compris-
ing Camera, Lens, Stand, Dark Slide, Plates,
Dishes, Chemicals, Scales, Measures', Ruby
Lamp, Sens. Paper, Printin'; Frames, and
Hook of Instructions—in fact, everything
ready to start.
To take 4} x 3}, or c. de v. pictures, £2 10 0
To take (U x 4;J, or cabinet ~ £4 4 0
This is a capital outfit for an amateur, who
has no desire to spend much money, and
wishes to do good work.
Full price list and Illustrations sent free.
Write for plans £lO Building sites, Perth,
Western Australia. Intercolonial Investment
Company, Limited, 30'.) Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. Johnstone, O’Shannessy and Co.,
Ltd., of 234 & 230 Collins-street, Melbourne, now
offer their highly artistic and permanent cabinet
photographs at the reduced price of one guinea
per dozen. All other s'zes up to panels have
undergone corresponding reductions. Ask for
revised price-list at the studios.*
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
It is most convenient to have a first-class
room near tram stopping places, where ladies
can rest themselves, and if they choose, have a
good cup of tea, or other refreshments. Wo
understand the Country Milk Co.’s “Cascade,”
80 and 82 Elizabeth-street, near King-street, is
just the place; it is certainly the largest and best-
conducted room in Sydney, and is getting quite
the fashionable resort for afternoon tea. We also
understand that ladies who so desire can have
parcels sent there, so that they can call for them
just before taking the tram for home.*
Land at Perth, W. A., the best Investment.
Plans from Intercolonial Investment Co., Ltd.,
300 Pi tt-street, Sy d n ey.
You can obtain from B. Motm teas tie & Sons, of
Albert-street, Brisbane, goods of a similar class to
that retailed by the leading West-end hosiers.
A side-issue of the discovery of Deeming
is the unearthing of a bigamous official living in
comparative seclusion. His name chanced to be
published in connection with certain legal pro-
ceedings ; this discovered him to a wife who has
long looked for him. Now in the hands of the
Sydney detectives are his photograph and copies
of his first and second marriage-certificates.
# # *
Goldbags, of S. Australia, the other day,
refused to consent to the marriage of his daughter,
just turned 19, to a ’nmble tradesman, so Juliet
eloped. Result : —Girl disinherited of about
,£■>oo 000.
* *
The hostile Sydney Chinese factions are
arming themselves —with Colt’s repeating-rifles.
As there are about 16,000 Chinese too many in
N.S. Wales, The Bulletin proposes that the
Government lend them the Centennial Park for a
week or two to “ have it out.” The wild beasts of
the Zoo. are at hand to oat up the dead, and the
tram which runs hard by can shunt the living,
leprous balance right up to Darlinghurst prison
pending their exportation per first charterable
steamers.
* * #
The Jewish community of Sydney have
been scandalised lately by a well-known Israelite
marrying a Christian lady. To appease the anger
of the Chosen the lady signified her willingness to
become a Jewess and was duly “received.” It
was then discovered that the bridegroom had com-
mitted a grievous breach of law by wedding a lady
who wasn’t a Jewess beforehand. For this both
the bridegroom and bride have been expelled the
# #
“ The fool marrioth and takefch unto him-
self a wife, but the wise man just answereth the
advertisement of one of Alfred Bennett’s loan
widders who want to borrow a fiver from ‘ kind-
hearted gentleman,’ ” — New Proverb.
# # #
A Nowra, N.S.W.. farmer has a family of
23, mostly boys. The tribe is celibate through-
out and works on the farm of its founder, who is
so constant a Bible-reader that he almost knows
the Scriptures by heart. “Blessed is the man
that hath his quiver full of them” —for they shall
abide by him for fear of following his example.
* * *
Regarded as a really business-like female,
a'certain Mrs. Amelia Johnston, of Maoriland,
seems to take a high place. According to her own
statement, she was married, in 1878 or 1879, to
one Sutherland, who deserted her a couple of
years later. In 1882 she got an order against him
for maintenance for herself and her two children.
Then she started a divorce-suit against Suther-
land, and next she heard that he was dead.
Thereupon she married a person by the name of
Johnston, and, by-and-bye, he died also. After
lie was dead she learned to her surprise that
Sutherland was still alive, and now she is suing
him for £213 10s., being alimony for the whole
time that she was living with Johnston. This
arrangement scorns to be very pleasant for all
parties with the exception of Johnston. If that
unlucky person were alive, what a time he could
have out of the alimony !
We print the subjoined masterful poem as
a sample of the sort of thing that now reaches
The Bulletin office about six times a day. Some-
times it arrives by post, sometimes a bloodshot
contributor rushes in with foam dropping on his
waistcoat and delivers it personally :
A Bulletin man has been told a Batten-
burg yarn by one of the actors in the treasonable
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER CASES.
(Moral suasion and rigid discipline.)
(1) Here you have the female
advocate for the prevention of
cruelty to animals expostulating
with a drayman, bogging him to
coax the poor dumb creature who
has jibbed at the foot of a hill.
(2) Here you have the same
female in her capacity as mother
strictly adhering to the theory,
“Sparethe rod and spoil the child.”
The child is her own, the lior, e isn’t.
comedy. When the s.s. Parramatta was on its
first voyage to Australia a passenger boarded her
at Gibraltar, bis destination being Malta. Ho
retired at once to bis cabin, and didn’t show up
till late next morning, when he approached the
smoking-room and found a sing-song in full blast.
He leaned against the doorway and listened to a
comic man lipping out a song, the parable of
which was in the direction of advising young
bachelors without money to get married to a long
purse and ugliness, and to go and loaf on the
wife’s old people. The last verse commenced —
“ Then Henry, Prince of Battenberg, got up and made
his bow,
And sang, with touching emphasis, ‘ I Live With Mother
Now.”
and proceeded to point a moral. The stranger
gave a sickly gasp and retired to his state-room,
and was seen no more until crawling over the
ship’s side at Malta. “Who is that surly,
unsociable follow that the flunkeys are making so
much of?” asked one. “ That’s Prince Henry of
Batteningberg,” replied an irreverent sea-dog.
“ The doose ! No wonder he didn’t like our sing-
song.”
B * # *
The “Baby” verses found among the
effects of that apparently much-married man, Mr.
Deeming were, though in Deeming’s handwriting,
not of his own composition. They originally came
from the pen of the well-known Frank Gassaway,
of San Francisco.
* * *
By the way, how domesticated many
of the coldest blooded murderers have been !
Burke, one of the most hideous specimens of a
fortunately rare class, taught in Sunday-school,
enthusiastically dandled little children on Ids knee
and stoked them with sweets, njjd was loved by
them in consequence. It is a pity that the devilish
man cannot be killed by the law without slaughter-
ing the saintly 1 1 a 1 fof the duality. Alas that Dr,
Jekyll should be choked while the Law is murder-
ing Mr. Hyde!
# *
The chief officer of a sailing vessel was
charged at Williamstown (Vic.), polios court, the
other day, with purloining tombstones from the
local cemetery. The mariner admitted that ho
had broken up a number of monuments with a
hammer and taken them ab ard for holyst >no.
It was quite a custom of the trade, he said.
Sailors were in the habit of cleaning the quarter-
deck with flakes of granite sacred to the memory
of John Smith.
Per cable :
The Salvation Army has opened a matrimonial bureau
in London, Colonel Barker, formerly of Australia, being-
in charge.
Evening newspaper “Matrimonial,” &c., advt.,
new style :
A WIDOW Lady, new arrival, warranted by General
Booth, would like to meet kind, elderly Gentle-
man, with view to Salvation. Saved Lamb, G.1’.0.
« # *
The gentleman who defended Pat. Cleary
(of South Melbourne fame) did his best. After a
bank-manager witness for the Crown had given
some formal evidence re cheques, he was cross-
examined by Patrick’s champion. “How long
has Cleary had a private account at your bank?”
“For the last two or three years,” replied the
witness. “And what sort of a person have you
found him?” “Nothing different to any other
ordinary sort of a customer,” was the answer.
Whereupon thecross-examiner looked triumphantly
at the jury, as though the. fact that Cleary hadn’t
attempted to sneak the till were a strong point in
his favour. It is about time that somebody wrote
a poem on the puerilities of the law-courts.
# * *
A Melbourne paper states that Mrs.
Bromby, the juvenile widow of the venerable
Rev. Dr. Bromby, is engaged to a Mr. Hunt. It
will be remembered that Bishop Moorhouse made
himself ridiculous in trying to quash the Bromby
wedding, and smugly fancied he bad done so,
until the news of the Queensdiff ceremony was
sprung upon him. There was a screamingly funny
scene in the Church Assembly while Bromby, just
on the eve of the affair, was urging a reduction
of marriage fees; the reporters had to half-swallow
their hats, while the reverends were as grim as
death.
# . # #
A Sydney evening paper now employs a
young lady reporter.
Rumour sayeth that a certain professional
philanthropist of Sydney is likely to go through
the Bankruptcy Court ere long.
# # *
E. B. Holt, of B.N.Z. fame, turns up
again—this time as the hero of Nat. Gould’s
story, “Banker and Broker.” Holt now occupies
a good position again in another part of the
world.
# * *
“ Let Deeming be bound clown (in an ant-
bod,” says a county Cumberland woman. A.more
awful doom : marry him to that woman. When
Job was abandoned to the devil, the latter took
care not to deprive him of his wife.
* # *
Australian actors talk of getting up an
indignation meeting to protest against £ £
SnVth’s assertion that he had always found the
ladies and gentlemen of the profession amongst
his best friends.
* # #
The latest explanation of the G. N.
Taylor sentence is that the judge regarded him as
a mere catspaw of other people in the Land Credit
Bank swindle, a hypothesis certainly not war-
ranted by the evidence. And how about the
other people, anyway ?
# # #
A Melbourne matron has just filed her
schedule owing to “ inability of husband to repay
money lent him by insolvent.” Hubby comes in
amongst the bad or doubtful debts.
# # #
An action for defamation of character is
threatened by a member of the Lindsay expedi-
tion. The evidence taken by the Adelaide branch
of the Geographical Society in connection with
the row amongst the members is stated to be very
* 1 spicy. ”
# # #
One of the big Southern coffee-palaces has
hired a new manager who is obviously resolved to
make things hum. Judging by his methods an
impression is getting abroad that he must have
been a bad-debt collector in his early life. It is
the rule of the establishment that all payments
must be made in advance, and the other morning,
about two a.in., it was discovered that a lady and
her daughter, then in bed upstairs, had failed to
settle up. They had been living in the establish-
ment for several months, and had always paid
monthly in advance, but this time they were
twelve hours overdue. Straightway the porter
clumped heavily upstairs, and issued an
ultimatum through the keyhole; the money was
wanted right there, and the ladies were desired to
get out of bed and square up. They declined to
get out of bed—and the porter promptly ran for a
policeman. Then, at 2.30 a.m., in a fashionable
caravanserai, did the bulky minion of the law
walk ponderously up the stair, and demand in
hoarse accents that the two ladies should get out
of that. The story is unfortunately an unfinished
one, and whether the ladies got rut of that, or
whether they shoved the three shillings under-
neath the door, is not ascertained. But business
keeps steadily falling-off in the coffee-palaces.
* o #
Miss Dalrymple, a professor of palmistry
and astrology, now all the rage in London, rays
that small-thumbed people are not worth very
much, and that strength and excellence of
character increase with the length of this digit.
Those about to marry are advised to inspret the
little fingers of their fiancees, as whichever of the
married couple possessed the longer fourth-finger
would be the ruler in the matrimonial struggle for
supremacy.
# # #
There is in Sydney a “ Denham Villa ”
which will now probably change its name.
* # #
A Sydney man named Tumpowski
advertises that he is going to call himself
“Thompson” in future. The Smiths will be so
■ glad.
* # *
Mrs. Parnell has squared her £'12,000 law-
suit by sharing equally with her opponents the
property involved.
* * *
There is secret rejoicing in the hearts of
many Tasmanians over the sudden cb'sappearance
of the girl Cope, who is badly wanted to prove
the charge of malpractice preferred against the
popular Doctor Bing. Crowther. Neither is Miss
Cope’s alleged friend Ritchie, the young solicitor,
to be found. Meanwhile, the Doctor comes up
weekly on remand, and the case will probably end
in a fizzle.
* * #
The management of one of the Australian
banks is, it is said, gravely considering the
advisability of deducting ten per cent, of their
clerks’ salaries, to form a fund from wh’ch to re-
imburse themselves for future losses by embezzle-
ment.
# # #
Cabled that the post-mortem on Schneider,
executed at Vienna for atrocious murders, revealtd
that the convict had been suffering from brain-
dropsy. In other words, that Schneider was more
than prima facie insane. “They do these things
better in Australia.” When they hang a man
whom the doctors suspect is insane, .they refuse
(as in the case of Colston) to allow any post-mortem
to be made. It saves scandal.
A SONG FROM A SANDHILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drip, drip, drip ! It tinkles on the “ fly ” —
The pitiless outpouring of an overburdened sky.
Every drooping frond of pine has got a jewel at its tip—
First a twinkle, then a sprinkle, and a drip, drip, drip.
Drip, drip, drip ! They must be shearing up on High,
Can’t you see the snowy fleeces that are rolling, rolling
by?
How many hales, I wonder,arc they branding to the clip?
P’raps the Boss is keeping tally with this drip, drip, drip.
Drip, drip, drip ! while the sodden branches sigh,
The jovial jackass dare not laugh for fear that he should
cry ;
The merry magpie’s melody is frozen on his lip,
He glowers at the showers, with their drip, drip, drip
Drip, drip, drip ! and one’s “ nap ” is far from dry,
Tis hard to keep the water out - however one may try;
I’d sell myself to Satan tor three fingers of a nip,
There’s cramps and rheumatism in that drip, drip, drip,
Pat, pat, pat! how it patters on the land !
’Tis certainly consoling to hi camped upon the sand,
There’s naught hut mud and water over yonder on the
flat,
Where the spots of rain arc splashing with their pat, pat,
pat.
Rain, rain, rain ! and the day is nearly done,
I wonder shall we see another rising of the son?
lias the sky shut down and stifled him, or will he come
again
And stop the cursed clatter of this rain, rain, rain?
Drop, drop, drop ! monotonous as Lite,
With now and then a western breeze that cuts one as a
knife ;
Sputter on the fire, is it never going to stop?
lias the weather-clerk gone crazy, with his drop, drop,
drop.
Drip, drip, drip ! the squatter wouldn't say
“Thank God!” so earnestly if he were camped in it
to-day;
Tis in at last—I knew it—there’s a pool about my hip—
Oh, ’tis maddening ami sad’ning, with its drip, drip, drip.
B ARCROFT H. BOAKE.
THE WINDSOR MURDERER.
Avaunt! Thou damn6d, cursed Fiend of Hell!
E’en the brute-beasts, melhinks, snort out thy kncl>
Of death !—revolting from thy deeds cf crime 1
For, over since the world can count its time,
The brute-beast didst love its young. But thou— thou,
To whom dear woman’s nature must e’en how
When once thy serpent tongue let loose—didst lure
Wife—wives-God help them !—doubtless all were pure
’Till thy foul breath—till thy vile tongue (fiend-ilk.)
Did gentle hearts—their common senses strike
With blindfold love !
Love for what ? Love for whom ?
A fiend of Hell! Aye—doubt not- Hell’s thy doom !
To think that thou hadst mix’d ’mong maidens pure.
The very thought is sick’ning to endure.
But woman’s curse—and maidens’ pray’r will be —
Fierce, piercing torments— thy eternity !
Yea ! The brute-beasts protect their living young 1
From age to age, brute-nature 1ms been sung
Showing how brute-beasts fight for their cub’s life—
But thou—demon ! —must kill both child and «ife.
By the score, no doubt! Their sad muster-roll
Will add ten-thousand curses to thy soul !
The nation—ave the world at large will curs',
And thankful be -thou cahst not ride in hearse.
The gibbet be thy death ! In gibbet chains
To hang ! Blister !
When not a bone rem i ns -
Thy record still—
Through crime of crimes will he,
Champion Murd’rcr!
Avaunt ! To Hell with thee !
27 Chatsworth-voad, East Prahran, Vic.
THE MELBOURNIAN TOAST.
Come, fill your glass brimming high
And drink, my hearties !
Confound all politics, say I,
And petty parties.
Here's one great universal toas'
The Loard preserve our penny post 1
Just toss it off with three times three,
My noble welters,
And make the welkin ring, for wo
Are men of letters.
Though country members rule the roast
We’ll rally round our penny post.
’Tis true the farmer builds the town
And feeds the city,
’Tis also true his face is brown
And sometimes gritty ;
But we, the pale commercial host,
Have given him a penny post.
The tax to him appeareth light,
On us ’twere heavy,
The more a wrong the more you wii.te—
This extra levy.
And we who feel depression most
Cry—“ Board preserve our penny post !”


Says Sydney E. News :
There is some modern reading that, at least for the
ignorant or semi-ignorant, must be as debasing as witness-
ing executions.
Heaven alone knows why Alfred Bennett let
this go into the Nooze.
Omitted from the newspaper accounts :
Evidence is to hand that “Williams the Mur-
derer” was once in Moomboomberrinjigobung,
No-man’s-land. Tracks have been discovered
there on the surface of a perennial lagoon present-
ing characteristics that reveal that the imprinter
was a fair-thatched, heavy-jowled, short, broad
man, who had led the leaden life of a plumber,
was much married, and had fled from his landlady
without settling up his board-bill. The lagoon is
to be drained off, in the expectation of discovering
some carefully-drowned hearthstones. The pecu-
liar ripple of the lagoon in the vicinity of the
tracks wears an ominously murderous smile, and
the water is decidedly alkaline, thougli blood-red.
The natives call the lagoon “Mamibung”—liter-
ally, “The Golgotha of the Creamy Bunyip !”
TATTERS ALL’S.
SYDHBT CXTP.
Run atßandwick, Easter Monday, April 18, 1892.
25,000 at 10 25,000
First, 5000; Second, 1500; Third, 1000; S., 1000; N.S.,
1000; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 25 at 20, 500 ; 100 at 10, 1000; 100
at 5, 500. Less 10 per cent. 245 extra.
Doncaster Handicap.
Run at Randwick, April 10, 1892.
25,000 at 10 25,000
First, 5000; Second, ICOO ; Third, 1000; S.,1000; N.S.,
1000 ; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 25 at 20, 500 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; 100
at 5, 500 ; Less 10 per cent. 245 extra, 245.
Re sure and register your letters, and take care of the
r.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
Address— “TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MONDAY POPS!
BREAKFAST CREEK PAVIIIOH,
BRISBANE.
EVERY
M!O3Xrr>A.Y night.
tS" ONE SHILLING (including Tram Fare).lEJi
ANDREW L. I’ETItIE, Promoter.
The QUEENSLAND SPORTS DEPOT.
EsTAISLISJIKD I* CO,
Cricketers, Fishers, Anglers, Boxers, Smokers and Foot-
ballers are invited to inspect their every requisite just to
hand, direct ftom the makers.
HARRY A. HOWES (late George Prentice),
Edward Street, BRISBANE.
Tennis Racquets Restrung and Repaired, guaranteed
equal to new. Price List, containing rules of all above
games, posted free of charge.
ROBERT PHILLIPS,
THE SOUTH MELBOURNITE,
Turf Commission Agent,
Member
f Tattcrsalls, Sydney,
Victorian Club, Melbourne,
I Ta ttersa Us, A del a ide.
Registered by the V.R.C., A.J.C., S.A.J.C., and
other Clubs,
Executes COMMISSIONS on all Racing Events
at a Stated or Starting Price.
NO REPLY. NO BUSINESS.
Address —
ELLERSLIE CIGAR DIVAN,
257 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,
Melbourne.
BOOT/S
sssmsms mm-
Prescribed with wonderful success for upwards
of fifty years by an eminent physician now
practising in New South Wales. An Infallible
Remedy for INDIGESTION, of which the follow-
ing are some of the symptoms :
Flatulence, Biliousness, Vomiting, Diarrhoea,
Headache, Colic, Drowsiness, Lowness of Spirits,
Heartburn, Pains in the Chest, Dizziness, Offen-
sive Breath, Backache, Pains between the Shoul-
der Blades, Disagreeable taste in the Mouth, and
all Disorders of the Digestive Organs.
BOOT'S INDIGESTION CURE
In not a “ Cure all” hut an
ABSOLUTE QURE
pOR ] NDIGESTION !
|3gr TRY IT AND PROVE IT
Sold by all Chemist*. Price. 3]t) per bottle.
Laboratory :
35 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY -
Rosebery’s “ Pitt ” on the celebrated Irish
Viceroy :
FUzwilliam appears to have thought that Ireland was
made over to him, as were Lampsacus and Magnesia to
Themistoeles for his bread and wine.
But Fitzwiiliam was a man of generous sympathies
and honest enthusiasm; and his fall as Viceroy
was due to his encouragement of the Catholics.
He was the patron of D’Arcy Wentworth, father
of W. C. Wentworth, and the latter’s son, the
well-known Australian sportsman, Fitzwiiliam
Wentworth, was named after the Earl.
GOLD MEDALS 1884-1885-1886-1888.
mm
Disinfectants
M
Fragrant, Non-Poisonous. Do Not Stain.
In all cases of Fever, &c., and for all Disinfecting
and Purifying purposes, use
“Sanitas ” Fluids, Powder & Soaps.
SANITAS” DISINFECTING FLUID
oxygenates and purifies the air; best dressing for
Wounds and Sores; also for House Disinfection.
SANITAS” DISINFECTING FLUID
the best Antiseptic Gargle for Infectious Sore
Throats, &c., and for Disinfecting Linen.
" QANITAS 11 DISINFECTING FLUID
L} Should be used in all Confinements.
"SANITAS” in all its varied preparations in shape
and form may find daily applications in every household.
Dictionary of Domestic Medicine , by Spencer
Thomson, M.D., and J. C. Steele, M.D.
Full Particulars on Application to
J. W. SIDBALL, MELBOURNE.
The Sanitas Co. Ltd., Bethnal Green, London, E.
Use Only
[IQt SUItiHG
SATIN
? I ADjeS' 5
Siis*s%
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
on your
Coots
and
Shoes.
Sold by all Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., MTgs.
Business Announcements.
JST Q "J 7 JL G 33
—OF
Dissolution of Partnership.
OTICE is hereby given that the PARTNERSHIP lately
-t’ subsisting between us, Francis Thomas Ward and
Edmund Banfield, earn ing 0:1 business at Hunter-street
West, Newcastle, as DRAPERS and IMPORTERS, under
the style or firm of WARD and BANFIELD, has this day
been DISSOLVED by mutual consent. The said Edmund
Banfield will receive and pay all debts due and owing by
the said late firm.
Dated Newcastle, 17th day of March, 1892.
Witness to the signature of
F. T. Ward-G. W. Mit-
chell, Solicitor, New-
castle.
FRANCIS WARD.
Witness to the signature of
Edmund Banfield— God-
frey W. Millard, Solici-
tor, Newcastle.
EDMUND BANFIELD.
I, EDMUND BANFIELD, hereby give notice that,
having purchased and taken over all the Assets and Good-
will of the late firm of Ward and Banfleld, the business
will be continued by me at the premises lately «ccupied
by the said firm, in my own name, and under my personal
supervision and direction.
BLACK’S
BLACKS
... * N-
ilC
JLU
Ip
George Hotel,
Corner I*ITT A MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
ADAM BEDE’S
SYDNEY GOLD CUP.
Run at Ranchvick, April 18, 1892.
4,000 at IQ 4,000 at lO
FIRST, 5 0 ; SECOND, 200 ; THIRD, 100 ; S., 130 ; N.S., 200 ; 10 at 20, 200; 30 at iO, 300 70 at 5, 330.
Every 1 chance of 8. Less 10 per cent.
IXO extra ones XXO
Be sure and register ycur letters, and take care of Hie P.O, receipt till you receive our reply.
Address— "Adiun Bede,” Care of .lljbvil, Post ( llicc Chambers, Pill Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
E R IHAJEST Y’S THEATRE.
Lessee and Manager Mr. Geo. Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of the New and Original Drama,
“ Life’s Rongli Road.”
I®" SATURDAY, APRIL 2—“ NOW A DAYS.”
ADMISSION-55., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
J. P. MACDONALD, Acting Manager.
CRITERION THEATRE
Under the Management of Air. Brough and Air. Boucicault.
Treasurer W. 11. Wallace.
LAST THREE NIGHTS! LAST THREE NIGHTS!
of
The Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in
“NEW MEN and OLD ACRES.”
Re-appearance of
Air. G. W. ANSON (after an absence of six months).
The management beg to announce that this will be Air.
G. W. ANSON’S farew'ell season in Australia prior to his
departure for the old country.
AIONDAY NEXT, APRIL 4th-“ CASTE,”
Air. G. W. ANSON’S FAREWELL as ECCLES.
PRICES 55., 35., 2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Box Plan open at Nicholson and Co.’s Alusic Warehous
Theatre royal
Lessee Air. S. Lazar.
Treasurer ... Air. Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Alanagement of A'r. Geo. Alusgrove.
THE BLAND HOLT SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS ! LAST NIGHTS !
(at 8 o’clock)
“ SAILORS KUOT.”
Prices—Dress Circle, ss; Stalls, 3s; Family Circle, 1
Doll and pincushion contest
in aid of CARRINGTON CENTENNIAL
HOSPITAL. RULES FOR COMPETI-
TION.—Ea: h article for competition must be
accompanied by a closed envelope (which will not
be opened until after the exhibits are judged), con-
taining name and address of competitor and the
CLASS of Article CLEARLY MARKED on
the outside, also by an Entrance Fee of One
Shilling for adults and Sixpence for children. All
sewing must be handwork. Articl.es for competi-
tion will be received at the SYEINEY SAFE
DEPOSIT BUILDINGS (behind Paling s Ware-
house), George-street, during the fortnight before
the Fair. An extra prize of One Guinea has been
kindly offered by Mrs. Young, Mayoress of West
Maitland, for the Best Boy Doll dressed in man-
o’-war costume.
YENTRILOQUISM ! —How to ACQUIRE
this wonderful ART. Full instructions,
dialogues, etc. Post free, Nine Stamps. Yentko,
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Government
df
Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, March 31, 1892.
r | TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will bo received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6U
Construction of Jetty at Woy Woy, Hawkesbury
River
Fencing, Shed, &c., Police Barracks, Dubbo
Erection of Secretary’s Office and Lamp-room,
Wharf, Erskine-street, Sydney
Erection of Court and Watcli House, Tocumwal
(fresh tenders)
Add tions to Tower, &c., Post and Telegraph
Office, Coobamundra
Additions, &c., Parliamentary Buildings
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20.
Bridge, Sandy Creek, road Guyra to Inverell, via
Tingha
Bridge, Oakey Creek, road Ke.npsey to Armidale
and Grafton Road
Bridge, Lachlan River, at Euabalong
Bridge, Karangi Creek, on road Kelly’s to Coff’s
Harbour
Bridge, Poperaperan Creek, Upper Orara-road
Bridge, Ollera Creek, road Guyra, via Tingha to
Inverell (fresh tenders)
Bridge, Moredun Creek, road Guyra, via Tingha,
to Inverell (fresh tenders)
Construction of Boat Landing, Rushcutters’ Bay
Survey and Plan of the Port of Newcastle and
part of the Hunter, Williams and Patterson
Rivers
WEDNESDAY, MAY 4.
Bridge, Quirindi Creek, at Wallabadah
Erection of Caretakers’ Cottages, Coff’s Harbour
and Woolgoolga
W. J, LYNE.
QUEENSLAND.
NOTICE.
Sale by Auction oe Crown Lam s in Large
Portions.
IT is notified for public information that, under
the provisions of “ The Special Sales of Land
Act of 1891,” Country Lands in the Colony of
Queensland, distant not less than twenty miles
from a navigable river, or from a railway, or from
the surveyed line of a railway for the construction
of which money has been raised by loan, may be
offered for Sale bv Auction, in portions not exceed-
ing 5120 acres. The upset price will in no case be
less than 10s. per acre.
The time for payment may be extended to a
period not exceeding three years, instalments
payable later than six months from the date of
sale bearing interest at 5 per cent, per annum.
Persons desirous of having Crown lands offered
ab auction are invited to apply to the Under
Secretary for Public Lands, Brisbane, or any
Crown Lands Commissioner.
A. S. COWLEY,
Secretary for Public Lands.
Department of Public Lands,
Brisbane, 28th October, 1891.
E A SICKNESS.
There are few things that take the conceit out
of a man more surely and speedily than sea sick-
ness. It's all very well to sing about “ A life on
the ocean wave.” When you get there you feel
different about it. The movements of the vessel
become much too previous for an erect attitude to
be maintained with dignity, and you experience a
glorious uncertainty as to whether you displayed
wisdom in dining with a few friends before coming
on board. That very act of injudiciousness on
your part is probably the cause of nearly all the
trouble. The greatest care should be taken by
those who have occasion to brave “the sea, the
sea, the open sea’’that indulgence of every kind
is carefully avoided for some days prior to embark-
ment. Let the stomach and liver be in a normal,
healthy state, and there is not much cause for
apprehension, A hearty meal of stale bread or
biscuits and well matured cheese (the more eaten
the better), washed down with a pint of the best
bottled stout, should be taken soon after going on
board. This will induce sleep, for which purpose
let the passenger retire to his or her berth and
remain there for several hours. By that time all
unpleasant symptoms will probably have dis-
appeared.
If not, let him reach for his portmanteau, and it
this has been packed by a person possessed of any
fore-thought it will be found to contain a bottle of
St. Jacobs Oil. A contemplation of the amount
of human misery which the use of that famous
remedy has been instrumental in putting to flight
will inspire cheerful thoughts, and cheerfulness
(as is well known) “ doeth good like a medicine.”
Former rheumatic and neuralgic patients every-
where testify that the most pleasant experience of
their lives is their acquaintance with so invaluable
a friend as the above pain-conquering preparation.
MAGNIFICENT JLLUMINANT.
As the long nights approach heads of families
are called upon to consider what is the
BEST LIGHT FOR THE HOME.
The electric light is not available, and even if it
were its installation in the great majority of
houses would be something out of the question.
as well as being dangerous and vile smelling at
times. A good, cheap, portable light is un-
doubtedly the light to suit the masses.
the new American IlluminaiV, commands the
attention of all. It is without doubt the light for
the people. Luxene gives out no smell or smoke
in burning, and is absolutely
and may be used in an ordinary kerosene lamp.
The enormous increased demand for Luxene since
its introduction into Australasia is the best
evidence of its popularity and utility. Ask your
storekeeper for
LUXENE, THE NEW ILLUMIN A NT,
and insist upon his supplying it. It needs only
to be shown and used to ensure a continuance of
its use.
GAS IS TOO EXPENSIVE,
LUXENE,
PROOF AGAINST EXPLOSION,
OLITE LYING.
When people lay themselves out to discover
reasons for not doing things they can always find
them. Some people are wonderfully proficient at
the business, and can rake up apparently valid
excuses from the most unpromising material. We
all know the man who wriggles out of the disgrace
of a broken appointment on the pretence that he
was seized by sudden indisposition. Then there
is the individual who excuses his close-fistedness
on the plea that indiscriminate charity has some-
times led to grave abuses, and he fears to be party
to a wrong. The crowning point, however, in the
deceptive, apologetic art lias been readied by a
couple of professional boxers, who seriously
announce that a slugging match arranged between
them has been postponed on account of the death
of an old friend abroad seven weeks previously.
These people are just as likely to be believed as
the man who, by way of excuse for his irritating
habit of constantly inquiring the time of the day,
exclaims that he “can't afford to carry a watch.”
An excuse such as this is a very lame one indeed,
seeing that a thoroughly reliable Waterbury
Watch, in either nickel, silver or gold, may be
obtained of respectable jewellers and dealers
almost everywhere at a figure so nominal that the
humblest may possess a reliable timekeeper. We
have had the opportunity to inspect the new series
“ N ” (ladies’) and series “K|” (gentlemen’s) short-
wind, stem-set Waterburys, both in rolled gold
and silver cases. They are at once elegant in
appearance, strong, durable, inexpensive, and
easy of adjustment and repair, the whole of the
parts being absolutely interchangeable.
R. SCOTT’S Electric Hair Brushes will
positively CURE Nervous Headache or
Neuralgia in five minutes, if used according to
directions. In ordinary, everyday use, they will
promptly arrest falling hair and baldness, dand-
ruff, and diseases of the scalp, and make the hair
grow long and glossy. These beautiful brushes
are made with pure bristles- not wires, which
injure the scalp and cause baldness and irritation.
Illustrated price list of Hr. Scott's Centime
Electric Appliances posted free to any address on
application to the Ball Mall Electric Associations
st», .Margaret street, Sydney.


PAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOFT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
:fo:k
TOILET & NURSERY
* ■
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin, of Ladies and Children and!
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer), Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
TESTi3yEo^rx^.x.s
Mm. LANGTRY.
“ I have much pleasure ill stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other.”
(Signed) LILLIE LANGTRY,
(
Miss MARY AND ERG ON.
“I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best. ’
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mime. MARIE ROZE MAPLE GO IT.
“For preserving the complexion, keeping tine
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, am I
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world. ”
(Signed) MARIE ROZK
Mdmo. ADELINA PATTL
*' I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Rev. H. WARD BEECHER.
u If cleanli iess is next to godliness, soitp' lEttrsH
considere i as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who i icommends moral things should bcv
willing to i oconimend soap. lam told that my
commend at i n of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. lam willing
to stand by,every word in favour o F it that I evr>r
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER
Sir ERASMUS WILSON. F.R.S.
' (Late President of the Royal Colle aof Surgeons of
England.)
Writes in the Jocks* ac. or CumxEOUS Medicine :
“ The use of a good soap is Certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . PEARS is a name engraven on
iho memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable ot balms for the skin.”
1
m
l
%
V'i
%
%
i
i 3
;y/.
v>.v*
V ■ -
A <
ft
WTf
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Two lady sloggers, Hattie Leslie, “the female
John B. Sullivan,” and Gnssie Freeman, professionally
known as “ Lonely,” undertook to fight to a finish recently
tit Brooklyn (U.S.). The female johnel was dressed in
black fighting tights and a white silk tunic, and the other
. enlle creature appeared in pure white. They fought
geient finally enough for three rounds, and then Gussie
got her golden head in chancery, and lost her temper, and
the'rust of the round consisted of frantic clawing, biting,
Kicking, screeching, and tearing of hair and tights. The
combatants were torn apart just in time to prevent them
biting e ic!i other to death, and were led a" ay, each
s taking her list at the other, and casting reflections on
the tit of her bonnet. Women never will shine in the
prize-fighting business. When one of them is knocked
down, she always will try to get square while she is sitting
on the floor, by telling the other one that her new frock
looks just like a bag, and then the other one gets enraged
and hits her when she is down.
* • *
Dear Bulletin, —None of the stories told of
leviathan bookmaker Joe Thompson’s voyage to Hing-
land seem to touch upon the fact that he attached himself
quite religiously to an elderly Melbourne parson whom he
always addressed as “ reverend sir.” Out of respect for
the cloth Joseph made a point of cutting short his excur-
sions into swear language with “Beg pardon! reverend
sir,” and so, on the whole, the “ book ” and the “ rook ”
got on very well together. One day, indeed, Joseph in-
duced his friend to come down to the bar and have a
drink. “What will you take, reverend sir? ” asked the
proud leviathan. Tiie parson decided in favour of ginger-
ale. “ ll 'hat! that rot-gut stuff,” shrieks Joseph,
forgetting himself, as usual. Then lie begged pardon
with extra humility, and, gazing sadly at the steward,
ordered ginger-ale for the reverend sir. That trip
“ ’ome ” was a healthy tonic for Joseph’s soul, if he has a
soul. —One Who Was There at the Time.
it # •
The original Spencer, of Spencer Bros., the
well-known Sydney rowing-patrons, seems quite unable
ever to mention Searle byname. “The one that’s dead
and Sullivan are the only scientific scullers I have
known.”
* # •
That plucky Sydney youngster, Helli ngs, lowered
the SDO yards amateur swimming record by 2 2-5 seconds,
in beating Holmes. Time, 7m. 3 3-ssecs.
# # *
Will Queensland win the eight-oar race this
year ? Last year’s crew was really the Breakfast Creek
crew, and their victory was a bitter knock to the rival
shed —the Commercial which advocates an entirely
different style of rowing.
» * •
In his recent letter to the Sydney cricket
Association, re the disputed umpire’s decision, W. G.
Grace said that the members of his team were unanimous
in asserting that Lohmann, when delivering the ball to
Charlton, did not get in front of umpire Briscoe. The
only men in a position to judge would be the wicket-
keeper and straight-hit, because the sole way to decide
whether three points are in a straight line is by placing
yourself behind one of the extreme points. And there’s
no getting behind this mathematical truth.
* * #
In one Sydney oyster-saloon from four to a
dozen pipes are left per week and never called for.
Oysters soothe the soul even of the smoker, and make
him forgetful of himself.
• # *
The English team, invited by the Mayor of
Adelaide to meet the Australians in a formal welcome,
did not in any way recognise the invitation. Grace again.
He is reported to have said: “No grog till we lick’em.
The side which wins the last match is the winning side, all
over the earth.”
» • »
George Lohmann, whose father is a clergyman,
has been captured by a Melbourne girl. She goes to
England with him.
The final test-match, England v. Australia, has
been won by the weather. A curious coincidence: In the
second match, Lyons scored 134 ; Stoddart scored 134 in
this match. The'record now is-Australia, two matches ;
weather, one.
• • #
Down the Parramatta River, last Sunday, Stan-
bury and Sullivan “showed” for a couple of miles in
front of their steamer. The ohanqiions sculling side by
side—Stanbury, a swarthy giant ; Sullivan, younger,
softer, and quite white —looked a physical Esau and
Jacob. The crowd generally backs the strong man, and
we are with the crowd this time.
• • *
Sweeps in Australia are doomed, provided the
result of the Australasian Postal Conference is to make
uniform the method of dealing with correspondence
relating to consultations and gambling bets.
# * #
At a dinner given to bookmaker Sam. Allen
(Melb.), where everyone present was either a Mo., Ike, or
Sol., “three hearty Australian cheers were given for
Queen Victoria.” Also, the diners sang “a few bars of
the ‘ National Anthem.’ ” S’elp us ! They were probably
thinking of the Grand National.
# * »
The Griffo-Mick M'Carthy fight at Sydney
Olynqiic diew a big crowd. Mick Mao. is a brother to
Billy Mac. Both men were a shade under 9st., but while
Griffo looked what he is—a perfect pocket Tom Sayers—
M’Carthy looked “poor.” The latter has never at any
time shown himself a first-flight boxer. His struggle with
Griffo did not denote any improvement, as his opponent
simply hit him when and where he liked, and put him
into his little cot at the end of the fourth round.
M’Carthy was much disfigured.
# # #
Apropos a certain Melbourne burglary, people
are saying—“As you sow so shall you reap.”
« • •
In a back number of London Athen.eum, one
turns up a flattering notice of the poetry volume called
“Sparks and Sounds from a Colonial Anvil,” by John
Whiteman, Madame Midas’ husband, and wonders why he
left off writing poetry. A queer thing, though, was his
re-publishing his metrical Melbourne Cup tips, ail altered
to the name of the winning horse.
m * *
There is no attempt at consistency in the police
attitude towards betting. At Richmond (Melb.) pony
races, a would-be welsher was captured by a few fleet-
footed backers and handed over to a constable, who con-
ducted the slippery bagman back to the ring, and kept
watch over him until he had duly squared accounts. Off
the course the same man might be summoned by the same
limb of the law for plying his trade in a public place. The
police seemingly recognise offences against one party in a
proceeding which is equally illegal on both sides.
• # •
The other day a Sydney parson visited the bed-
side of a “ dying ” stable-boy. “ I’m afraid you can’t get
better, my little man,” said the good pastor. “Betyer
ten ter one I can, sir,” answered the lad. And he did.
# * *
Someone who feels Jercmiadally bad concerning
the moral slate of N.S. Wales wants this printed;—
Where drink and ignorance reign, contentment fails.
And honour sinks where gambling long prevails.
* # *
For those who want to know how many com-
binations are derivable from various groups of figures,
the following is a simple and workable method. Take
three words—as an example “ cash on delivery” : here six
combinations are possible. To prove this the enquirer
adds up first the total number of words in the sentence,
i.e., three. Then he arranges a system of numerals to
descend from tills ascertained total until the unit 1 is
reached, and multiplies them all together, the result
giving the answer thus: 3x2xl-6. In a combination of
17 words the enquirer would see that 17xlCxl5xl4xl3x
12x11x10x9x8x7x6x5x4x3x2x1 the variations possible
would reach 355,687,428,096,000 ! This may afford an
idea of the odds against the Chinese lottery speculator.
“ Nearly all fishermen are liars, and in that
connection they are like Quakers’ hats-too wide in the
bream.”— Proverbs of Joe Loire, vol. 48, page 1278.
« # #
The old-time English cricketer, Charley Law-
rence, has just retired from the N.S.W. railway-service, in
which he has been employed some 35 years,
# # *
Mr. gam. Hordern’s luck sticks to him on land
and sea. His imported two-and a-half-ton yacht, Bronze-
wing, has just put down Mr. J. O. Fairfax’s crack, Bul-
bul, in two consecutive races.
# * #
Miss Mayo, of the Italian Opera Co., drowned
on Saturday night last, owes her death to the fact that
she went out in a boat manned by deep sea sailors instead
of Port Jackson amateurs. Professional sailors can ride
horses even better than they can handle a boat in a
breeze.
* # *
The recent unsteadiness of a great Australian
cricketer is all along of a fickle girl.
'# * *
Will Lord Sheffield (who departs from Australia
with the good wishes of all Australians) bring out W. G.
Grace again with the “truly representative team?”
# # *
Judging from what one reads about Slavin’s
alcoholic doings, his fistic glory will shortly depart.
# # #
The N.S.W. peds., who three years ago turned
up their noses at £l5O prizes—a gold cup was their
“dart”—are now straining every nerve to win £lO
handicaps. The anna's of sport furnish nothing like the
collapse of Sydney pcdcstrianism.
’ # # ii
A concise report of the third test match between
the Englishmen and All Australia, at Adelaide: The
Englishmen, on a perfect wicket, in Ist innings made 499.
Australia, witli rain and bad wicket, Ist innings, 100 ; 2nd
innings, worse wicket, 169—ns in nine matches mil of ten
between anything like equal teams, the toss decided the
match, and no true test match can be played until some
genius invents a gutta-percha pitch of the same pace as
the best turf.
* * *
Bungebah, at 7 to 1, won the Rosehill Cup, all
out, by a head from Helene. Helene was a trifle on the
big side, and her running on Saturday makes her chance
for the Doncaster look rosy, for she meets Bungebah on
81b. better terms; and as there is authority for stating
that Paris is lame—how lame is not known—Helene’s
show should be second to none.
Cannon, Mr. Sam. Hordern’s colt by Norden-
feldt, is in appearance a magnificent animal. He started
in the Nursery Handicap at Rosehill on Saturday, and,
getting away very badly, finished fourth.
# # #
Sheffield, old man, good-bye, you behaved yourself well,
And you’re welcome whenever this way you may x>ass,
But the Kangaroo smiles, for it’s rather a sell
For the Doctor, that “ two out of three ” was a coup do
Grace. Tub Pikenix.
Cable item. More “ submerged tenth
London, Tuesday.—ln the House of Commons last night
Mr. Hugh Watt, the Gladstone Liberal member for Cam-
lachie (Glasgow), asked whether the Government would,
favour the transfer of the congested populations of Eng-
land and India to the Northern Territory in South Aus-
tralia?
“ Congested population ” sounds good, especially
when we read on the same day that, in the tiny
kingdom of Scotland alone, and only within the
last eight years, 244,440 acres have been cleared of
their population—the said populationbeing “con-
gested ” into the big cities —and turned into deer-
forest, in order that the rich and fatted Smith, of
London, may make a fool of himself on a damp
hillside with a gun.
Of “ Black and Crick” the world is sick.
How is it that so many general managers
of Australian banks are going to England now ?
Out of 450 Chinamen imported to New
Guinea by the German Company in October last,
300 had, up to February 2Gth., died of fever,
dysentery, &c.
The Brisbane Worker will appear as a
weekly this Saturday. W. Lane, editor; Frank
Barnes, recently of Young Australia, Sydney,
business manager.
Cheerful items from London: The Stan-
hard predicts that silver, which at latest was
3s. 4 7-l Gd. peroz., will fall to 2s. Gd. London
wool-buyers fear that wool, excepting crossbred
and pure merino, will fall a half-penny.
At Croydon, (Q.) Cingalese, Malays, &c.,
take in washing, A lot of them make aboriginal
gins do all the hard work while they merely iron
and take round the boiled shirt to collect the cash.
This is playing it pretty low down on our country-
women.
In spite of the promise of Sayers, M.L.A-
(Q.), to vote against Kanakas and to support a
no-confidence motion (if proposed) against the
Griffilwraith Ministry, the Associated Workers
of Charters Towers have officially requested both
him and his colleague, ex-parson and now-lawyer
Rutledge, to resign.
According to Detective Cawsey, Deeming’s
fits are artful imitations designed to bolster up the
insanity theory. Apropos , another man with a
fractured skull has been picked up in Sydney and
run into a watchhouse cell for “ drunkenness ;’ r
found still unconscious many hours afterwards he
was when too late taken to the hospital. Police-
men arc failures as diagnosticians.
“Our beautiful harbor” has to be bracketed
with “Our beautiful hotels,” and it is a curious
coincidence that sea-caterers frequently turn out
the best land-caterers, probably owing to the
sumptuous vogue of travel now-a-days. Mr. •).
Scott-Black, proprietor of the George Hotel, Pitt
and Market Streets, is no exception fo this rule.
For six years, chief steward in the E. & A. Co.’s
China trade, and with a record also embracing
periods in the P.M.S.N. Co.’s Frisco service and
the A.U.S.N. Co.’s, in the latter of which he was
Chief and Inspecting-Steward, Mr. Black is well
qualified to manage a first-class hotel. The
George is centrally situated in the heart of the
city, and yet in close proximity to the parks and
places of amusement, and within the easiest of
communication with all the delightful surround-
ings of Sydney. The hotel can accommodate 50
guests, and has just undergone complete renova-
tion and refurnishment. It possesses a fine library
and reading-room, a luxurious drawing-room, a
centrally placed commercial room, private suites,
&c., &c. The corner hitherto rented by the Aus-
tralian Banking Co. has been included in the
hotel proper, and has been furnished with luxurious
modern appointments to do service as two private
bars and a writing-room for the convenience of com-
mercial and business guests. Hot and cold water
baths, and spacious lavatory accommodation are
Xirovided on every floor, to which access is gained by
a comfortable elevator, and the individual comteit
of every guest is made a matter of special study.
The cuisine and the cellar may be relied upon;
Mr. Black is caterer to the Municipal Council —
and Alderman are reputed to understand the art
of bodily refreshment.


Box 1034, G.F.O.
Tolepliorio 972,
CONSIGNMENTS OF THE MOST CHOICE GOODS RECEIVED WEEKIY BY
W. MAMMATT AND SONS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
SPOON’S &s, FORKS,
WAR, PRIZE AND OTHER MEDALS, BADGES, CHECKS, ORNAMENTS, etc.,
SILVER and ELECTRO-PLATED GOODS and CUTLERY
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION FOR
PRESENTATIONS, SHIP, CLUB, HOTEL FAMILY USE.
03 YORK STREXaT, SITDXEY.
Also at MELBOURNE and EDINBURGH. Manufactory; SHEFFIELD.
EVERY ARTICLE WARRANTED TO GIVE ENTIRE SATISFACTION.
gd
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., End.,
201
{Macquarie Street North
(Opposite Parliament House)
Sytiney.
201
Dr. PATERSON lias been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC, |\J ERVOUS,
and
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
No medical man advertising in these colonics has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old.
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, eostiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor,sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will bo forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
ELASTIC STOCKINGS.
Kneecaps, Anklets, Rubber Bandages, Chest Ex-
panders for Contracted Shoulders.
Ladies’ Abdominal, Electric and Galvanic
Belts.
Enemas, Syringes, Uterine Supports, and Preven-
tive Pessaries. Ear Trumpets and Conversation
Tubes.
Trusses for Rupture.
The most difficult ruptures effectually treated.
Artificial Legs, Arms and Hands,
with all the latest improvements, made specially
to order —fit and durability guaranteed.
GUY ATT & CO., 495 GEORG E-ST., Sydney.
N.B. —An experienced lady in attendance.
Established 1853.
zm
..
SpecialitiesHorton’s celebrated Medicines
for all Diseases; Horton’s Special Medicines for
Male and Female Private Diseases. Send particulars
of complaint or ailment, and enclose 10s. by
Money Order or Postage Stamps for the neces-
sary medicines. £‘3 worth sent carriage paid to
any town in N.S.W., or £5 worth carriage paid to
any town in Australasia. Prompt replies to all
letters. Price lists free.
R. HORTON, M.P.S.,
Pharmaceutical Chemist and Surgeon Dentist.
Medical Hall and Dental Rooms:
769 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Opposite Christ Church, near Railway).
Dental Specialities:—Gold Medal Artificial Teeth.
Painless operations by the aid of Nitrons Oxide
Gas and Chloroform. Painless Stopping ot
Decayed Teeth. Just published : Book of Observa-
tions on the Teeth. Post free on demand.
I
i
Metropolitan Hotel,
Edward and Mary Streets, BRISBANE.
Mrs. MOXLEY’Scompliments, and calls public
attention to this old-established and popular
Hotel, which has been thoroughly renovated and
improved to meet the progress of the times.
Superior Covititcrcicil.ltooTn cttul Sitting Rooms,
First Quality Table. ' OT Charges Moderate,
fg
Acknowledged
esl
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tiie Brighton of KTew South. NAT"ales.
A most Comfortable ITigh-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. BZILMIKTSTBR .... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
df
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. J- IVrH.r-Willi a.Ty> ; 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Aarons 7 Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in the Building’.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on thj* PREMISES.
imumismtsSUSUt
Titis first-class Hold lias been Ilandsome’y Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Llogant
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention to
visitors. Tariff, 10s. Cd. per day. Special Mutes for Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - Proprietors.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the establishment).
Everyone Should Read
A GOLDEN SHANTY,
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
(..)
Price: One Shilling; Per Post, Is. 3d.
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.”
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 683 George Slrc< t, Sydney.
“PEOPLE WE’VE SMILED WITH.”
J -A. 3VI JES s C - nA. IST T,
Proprietor,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE, Q.
With Compliments.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Brice, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
MONK ALE
Finest in the Market.
ASK POR
MONK ALE
DANIELL’S
“ IMPERIAL "
PRIVATE FAMILY HOTEL
Bn-I S B A. 3XT-E.
%
k 1
IakHOT
The Most Comfortable Hotel South of the
Equator.
ITB. PORTER is in Attendance on all Steamers
and d rains. IEH
Letters and Telegrams receive the prompt-
attention of
C. H. DANIELL.
Dinner Parties and Wedding Breakfasts catered’
for at the Hotel.
"T^TTOTICE. —Advertisements for CurrentWeekT-
JL si cannot be received LATER than t p.m. on ’
TUESDAY.


Special Advertisements.
REMEDY FREE.
cm
YOUR-
SELF.,
jin «»;«! IMi.rsician, retired from
practice, had placed in his hands, by an
East India Missionary, the formula of
a Simple Vegetable Ilemedy for the
speedy and permanent (lui'tt of
Nn»i|itiuu, Jtwvoos Debility,
]lanho«Kl, and all WiiMt-
itig’ CojiiitliiintM. Having tested
its wonderful curative powers in thou-
sands of cases, and desiring to relieve
human suffering, I will send, l'r(‘«> of
Cliarg-e, this valuable recipe, with
full directions for preparing and using.
ADEIIESS (with stamps)
R. A . CHASE,
AU S 'S' IK A■<B A IV IS I B I, B» I M
ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
gd
nil Music Si/.c and Guaranteed Gorrcct.
m
mrßti
Ma
13 OoriES, ;{.
Catalojues
Pod free.
No. SONGS.
49. Call Me Hack Again.
253. Starlight Nell.
207. Then You'll Remember Mo.
298. White Wines.
410. Who’s that Calling so Sweet.
411. So-ng that Reached My Heart.
427. A Little Peach in an Orchard grew
528. Hogie Man.
500. Gipsy Countess (vocal duet)
507. Diver in E flat. 50S. Diver in F.
509. Maggie Murphy s Home.
PIANOFORTE.
473. Athalie March. Mendelssohn.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
504. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively
the holborn music stores,
15 HoLiiORN, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
IJSf. 1845] TRADE SUPPLIED. [list. 1845
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR
A soothing, cooling, emollient milk for the
skin. It prevents and removes freckles, tnn,
sunburn, redness and roughness of the skin,
soothes and heals stings of insects, eczema,
prickly heat, and all irritations, produces soft
fair skin and a lovely delicate complexion. It
is warranted free from any lead or mineral
ingredients, and is perfectly harmless to the most
delicate skin. Bottles 2s. 3 d. and 4s. 6 d. Ask for
Rowlands’ Kalydoe, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is a pure and
scientifically prepared tooth powder; it whitens
the teeth, prevents decay and sweetens the
breath.
f
7 nC; Iwa nt the
Tea. Cos X
never diin
other, ify. the best
ffdieahcs
\/b . l[j -*
20 K4o?i- Chats' •
'Beivuct e 5 S?J/6
167 OSS?'
Man
2
At*
ous
A Great Discovery in Medicine
. 'Vltbiu the reach of'all.
WARRANTED TO CURE,
If curable at ail,
Or Money Refunded.
MUMFORD’S
, ,_ Vivifying and Purifying
medicated nervine pills,
Purely Vegetable , and free from any
~ poisonous substance.
, ™ os t extraordinary medicine ever discovered
i ® complete cure of all forms of weakness
tm 'l* from Errors in Youth, Spermatorrhoea,
Wotencc Depression, &c. This great discovery
result of 22 years’ careful study, and expen-
,. ® e fj l the treatment of uritortunale sufferers
I' om the above diseases, which sometimes lead on
r, rcmsumption or insanity and suicide. As a
P'° or . that this wonderful medicine is really a
genuine remedy, it is sold ona guarantee providing
'lnstructions are faithfully carried out, which
snSniv eeaa ,f ?, RI - CE 20/- PER CASE. Four weeks'
Supply, with all instructions, certain rules, &c.,
■catty packed to avoid observation. Forwarded
P° st to all parts, and strictly confidential,
setters containing £1 will be attended to at once.
medicine, &c., forwarded by return post to
any address.
F. W. MUMFORD, Herbalist & Eclectic,
21 Bourke St. East, Melbourne.
.. Established in Wblboubnb, 1878.
Mention this Paper.
“We must give up the Deluge,” said
Cardinal Manning, several years ago, to his friend,
Mr. Spottiswoode.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“Baron Swanston’s ” last telegram to
Miss Kate Rounsefell: —“Hope you well; send
address.” Reply; “Quite well; address, care
Commissioner of Police, Melbourne.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
“Nothing could be sadder than the death
of John Multy, through a tree falling on him,”
says a Maoriland paper, in its obituary upon a
squashed resident. Well, supposing two trees
had fallen on him ?
The judicial murder of three poachers, for
slaying two English gamekeepers-in a poaching-
fray, will be a big card in the hands of the British
Radical party at next general election. May the
horror and rage of the democracy at the
cold-blooded vengeance thus exacted by the
governing classes be the means of dynamiting the
game laws !
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Government analyst Hamlet can, in the
main, find only harmless adulterations in the
N.S.W. liquor. It is true that one sample of
beer, a glass of which made the drinker seriously
ill, was found to contain strychnine in the propor-
tion of 0.34 gr. to the pint. A quart of such
liquor would mean death to anybody.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Attorney Sam Lyons (Melb.) referred The
other day to the exceptional severity of the sen-
tences passed by Justice Williams. Someyeais
ago the Judge rendered himself ludicrous by
letting off Sieber, the Hungarian would-be bar-
maid-shooter, with a lecture on the mischief of
reading Kotzebue, and having been roasted over
that, Williams now lets off steam upon the
wretched prisoners. All which again points the
moral of the jury passing the sentehce, as in the
United States. Why should a sentence vary
from six weeks to six years, according to one man’s
caprice ?
Here is something from Mr. Frank
A. Hale, proprietor of the De Witt
House, and the Tontine
Hotel, Brunswick', Me. Hotel men
meet the world as it comes and goes,
and are not slow in sizing people
and things up for what they are
worth. He says that he has lost a
father and several brothers and sis-
ters from Pulmonary Consumption,
and is himself frequently troubled
with colds, and he
often coughs enough
to make him sick at
his stomach. When-
ever he has taken a
cold of this kind he uses Boschce’s
German Sjuup, and it cures him
every time. Here is a man who
knows the full danger of lung trou-
bles, and would therefore be most
particular as to the medicine he used.
What is his opinion ? Piste n ! “I
use nothing but Boschee’s German
Syrup, and have advised, I presume,
more than a hundred different per-
sons to take it. They agree with
nie that it is the best cough syrup
in the market.” ®
Hereditary
Consumption
BRITISH PLATE
SSHEIT CUSS
15
n
Kg!
MERCHANT
m
&
&
m
m
ARTISTIC
//oAf£ DECOR AT ORB
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYDNEY.
First-Class Hotel, x Select and Quiet.
Charges from 10s. per day.
F. BAUER PROPRIETOR.
simiitih: bbothees
(F. R. Smith),
39 EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
Customs, Shipping, Forwarding, Commission,
Insurance, Buying and General Agents.
AGENCIES Verco Bros. & Co. Patent Roller Flour.
Anderson’s Dunedin Oatmeal. Mount Cotton Sugar
Plantation. Reid's N.Z. Salmon-Mullet, Caldwell’s N.S.W.
and Victorian Wines. “The F. B. Wheeler Co.” “ Bal-
loon ” Brand Baking Powder. “ Cup Blend ” Tea. Pitt,
Brown & Co.’s Teas.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part- I
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JASVIES BAILEY, Proprietor.
DRINKING
ROBERTSON’S
-HE* a, xxi e c3L
WHISKY.
9 , A
ill!
I I'M
4^*r&S:
/
t
jf.
ar
D
SOLE AEE.VI’S!
OI K AOVI4 i: TO SlFfElllißS
FROM
BLOOD and NERVOUS DISEASES.
Try HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist’s
JSf underfill (Herbal AUaline (Remedies,
GUARANTEED PT T RELY HERBAL.
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL.
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL.
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL.
ah
P
f
PAKIJH HtRBAUJT
V<] DISCOVER, PROPRIETOR.
6*/,1 o; THE CEAESRATCO U
l ALFALIHE'
PILLS
WHICH HAVE CURED
OVER 100.000 SUFFERERS
& Seem Awarded
GOLD gIEDAI?
(it
Hi
tw°
REG IST E RED EVERY WHB RE.
REGISTERED EVEBYWHEKI.
REGISTERED EVERYWH E R I.
REGISTERED EVERYWHERE.
.JSI
None Genuine unless they bear this Label,
t urret over l(H> 0«0 Sufferers.
IST GUARANTEED CURES'.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood
and Nervous Diseases, Varicocele, Piles, Nervous Debility,
Lost Vitality, Errors of Youth, Barrenness, and all
Irregularities of the System. A guaranteed preventative
against disease of any kind. Ordinary Course, 235. (id.
posted. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d. posted.
Boxes at ss. Od. and 11s ; posted, Is. extra per box.
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to cure Nervous Debility. Boxes at ss. 6d,
11s., and 225. Cd. ; posted, 12s, Cd., and 235. (id.
Alfaline Lock Cure Pills.
Guaranteed to cure all Diseases of (be Blood. Boxes,
ss. Cd., 11s., and 225. Cd.; posted, Cs., 125., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness, and the Liver and
Kidneys. Boxes, Is., 2s. Cd., ss. Cd., and 225. Cd.; posted,
Is. Gd., 35., 65., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs,
Bronchitis, and Colds. Boxes, 2s. Cd., ss. Gd., and 225.
Cd.; posted, 35., Cs., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, and Stiff Joints. Boxes,
2s. Cd., ss. Od., and 225. Cd. ; posted, 35., Cs., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the hair turning
grey and falling off. 2s. Cd. and ss. Cd. ; posted, 3s. and Cs.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing
Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful for beautifying the
complexion. 2s. Cd. and ss. Cd. ; posted, 3s. and Cs.
IMPORTANT.
Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal Remedies, having been
greatly improved and being now perfected, they will in
the future be known as Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline
Remedies.
"THE NATURAL DOCTOR,”
By llekr Rassmussen,
A valuable Herbal Work, containing over a hundred
valuable receipts, and much useful information on self-
cure. Posted free on receipt of Is. in any colonies stamp.
J3P” Proving the Wonderful Cures to be genuine :
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, THOMAS MUDIMAN, of 515 George-street, Sydney,
do hereby solemnly declare as follows :
WHEREAS I suffered very severely from a very
troublesome AFFECTION OF THE NERVES. I tried
several Doctors and Remedies ; but all of no avail. I, as
a last hope, obtained from HERR RASSMUSSEN some
of bis Purely Herbal ALFALINE PILLS, which I hereby
solemnly declare completely cured me. These Remedies
also cured my wife.
I make this Solemn Declaration, believing the same to
be true.
DECLARED at Sydney before me.—S. T. WHIDDON,
Justice of the Peace.
I certify that Herr Rassmussen’s Alfaline Remedies
cured me of a very serious Blood Disease.—JOHN
REYNOLDS, Chappel-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.
It gives me much pleasure to testify that your wonder-
ful Remedies cured me of a complicated complaint of the
Liver and Kidneys. I shall always recommend your
Remedies.—Yours gratefully, R. ALBURY, C 4 Washing-
lou-street, Sydney.
The wonderful Alfaline Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years standing,
after trying all known remedies. 1 shall always feel grate-
ful to you, and I am willing at any time to be interviewed
by any person who doubts this testimonial.—WM.
ATKINS, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Herbal Remedies have been the means of performing
many great cures during the last few years, as Ids
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his Remedies. ’—Sydney
Evening News.
“ We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures effected by Herr Rassmussen's Cele-
brated Remedies.' Herr Rassmussen is a gentleman who
has gained for himself a reputation in the medical world
of Herbal Science.’’— Australian Star.
We are continually receiving letters from Herr Rass-
massen’s Cured Sufferers, requesting us to make known
the WONDERFUL VIRTUES his WORLD-RENOWNED Herbal
Remedies contain. —Sydney Weekly News.
Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
(lie Australian public to require any additional praise
from Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.—
Sydney Truth.
Herr Rassmussen’s Remedies, we are glad to say, hold
the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoy the confid-
ence of many of the leading people in New South Wales,.
Victoria, and Queensland.— Cooktown Courier, Queens-
land.
All Remedies Forwarded Unobserved. Register
All Letters Containing Money.
ADDRESS :
Herr Hans Eassmusspn,
547 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY
A Way to Make a Living.
“ Fill in a proposal to the Universal Mutual
Benefit and Life Assurance Co., Unlimited, Bob.
I’m canvassing for them now, on half-a-sov. a
week and commission.”
“What’s the use? I can’t afford to pay even
the first premium.”
“ Oh, you’ve no noyii to pay anything. I’ll give
you a receipt for Su. Od. That will run you for a
quarter. I’ll get <£l commission, and so I stand
to win 10s. 3d. on the transaction.”
“Is that the trick? All right; you fill in the
form and I’ll sign it. But what about the medical
examination ?”
“You won’t have to undergo any medical
examination for so small an amount as that, and
it will assure you a decent funeral should you die
while assured. After the quarter, you can keep
on paying if you like.”
“But I won’t like. 11l never pay anything,
and the policy will lapse.”
“ All serene. But 111 make 10s. 3d., and we’ll
have a liquor or two on the proceeds, fiign your
name there, my boy.”
“ Do you do much in this business?”
“ Rather. Most of the knowing ones do it.
Why, we couldn’t live on the game, if we didn’t.”
“But, at the end of the quarter, how do you
stand with the office;? Don’t you get the sack?”
“ They don’t get the chance to sack me. About
the eleventh week of my first lapser falling due, 1
drop the contract. Most of the cute ’uns do that.
Then they send a chum to apply for the vacancy,
and he gets his little turn. Why, we’d have
to burst ourselves all round the town all day long,
if we worked at the business. But some of the
palaver part of the genuine cases is rare fun. We
dry the widow’s tears'and rescue the orphan fiom
want and woe, and provide for the grandfather in
his final teething, and comfort even the ancient
spinster grand-aunt, and patch the breeches of the
ragged and torn boy, and dower the maiden all
forlorn.”
Bob signed, of course, and the Universal
Mutual Benefit and Life Assurance Co., Unlimited,
issued another policy.
# # #
The above is based on an incident that
occurred within my personal observation about
18 months ago in an Australian city. I have
been told that the game is being liberally prac-
tised in other places that shall also be nameless.
It seems a pity to spoil it. How much the insur-
ance societies profit by it is a matter beyond my
arithmetical prowess.-
DIPSO.


CLARKE’S PATENT “PYRAMID ” & DOUBLE WICK FAIRY LIGHTS.
CLARKE’S NEW FLORAL FAIRY LAMPS. JJj BufgJap’g
.error.
tJ
yy
Safe;
m
=2--;
bl
2Sfe
S^fiLSSfea
... •
m
•- ■ :*
/ H ■'
,
-Au
>;
sB'TXi
.’ ,f V: : '.',; ■•
v&
A
.«sas S;
x
ft
-S^>aa
‘PYRAMID’ GARDEN LAMP
and Mosquito
Trap.
WEATHER
PROOF.
Every
Verandah
should be
Decorated
■with these
Invaluable
Lamps.
GLASSES
IN
VARIOUS
COLOURS.
m
MsHisB
I
KM;
mm
H
a
■a®
UK
:♦>
mi
mm
♦:*
! 4 •• •
p-a
IMIS
;
5SS&’
PJ
35
WEATHER
PROOF.
Made in
Two Sizes,
to burn
either
‘Pyramid’
Lights or
Double-wick
‘ Fairy ’
Lights.’
*
BEAUTIFUL
EFFECT.
■ • ■
m
SS
•-
■i*
1 1 V-
r:; :
m
-
m
-
wm
ii
■ >;
%
In Beautiful Tinted Glass—Various Colours.
Made in three sizes, to burn FAIRY and PYRAMID Lights. I * s . V*.
charming novelty that has yet been introduced for Decoram e Lignung.
CAN BE HAD MOUNTED ON PLUSH STANDS.
ESI
u
CLA-RKE’S
Registered “ pyramid ” Might- Light
HOLDER,
m
n
Pfl
I
¥ll
/y
ty
Japanned Watch Holder and Burglar Horror Lamp Complete.
Sold by all the leading retail houses.
BUEGLAE'S HOEEOE.
WIGHT/ VUCHT.
BUEGLAE’S HOEEOE-
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE
PLASTER FIRE PROOF CASE.
Single Wicks burn nine hours
each, in Boxes containing Eight
Lights.
For Burning in
CLARKE’S f Pyramid 5
NURSERY LAMP.
CAUTION. —TO PREVENT
BURGLARIES. —A “Pyramid ”
Night Light should be lighted in
the back and front of every house
as soon as it is dark. Housebreakers
have the greatest dread of a light.
The police recommend a “Pyramid”
Night Light as the best safe-guard.
A 1 most all the burglar ies perpetrated
might have been prevented and
much VALUABLE PROPERTY
SAVED, if this simple and inex-
pensive plan had always been
adopted. The “Pyramid” Night
Lights are much larger and give
DOUBLE THE LIGHT of the
common night lights, and are there-
fore particularly adapted for this
purpose. Manufactured in Patent
Fire-proof Plaster Cases. No
paraffin or other dangerous n aterial
used in their manufacture.
Lines on Using CLARKE’S Lights.
“ When Nights are Dark,
Then think of Clarke,
Who's Hit the Mark Precisely ;
For his Night-Lights,
Create Light-Nights,
In which You See quite Nicely."
—W.K.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: Francis Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st..
Melbourne.
The Wild-Cat Column.
So sensitive is the mining market that when a
year ago the sale of 5000 Broken Hill Proprietary shares
in one day would not affect it, a few days ago a holder of
•500 in a forced sale preferred to accept privately a price
£l below the ruling rates for the parcel rather than take his
chalices upon the market. Even 100 shares in any of the
principal Broken Hill mines, placed suddenly on the
Sydney market, would stagger it.
* # «
If the Victory mine, Charters Towers, were in
N.S.W., depressed as the mining market is the shares would
he double their present value. We do not thereby say
that they are too low, but a dividend gold mine in N.S.W.
is such a rara avis that the market can never measure it.
At Charters Towers, Bendigo, and other mining fields,
where there are local markets and shareholders, specula-
tion in mining shares—except in times of boom, when
everybody goes mad —is reduced to a system. Buyers
want to see at least 25 per cent, for their money, with
years of work in sight. If the latter is impossible because
■of the circumscribed character of the workings, then
■dividends must be at the rate of 50 up to 100 per cent.
The holders of stock who regulate the market are mining
men who act from their own observation, and not from
reports. In N.S.W. the declaration of a dividend is
regarded as something that will continue with the same
regularity as those of gas-companies and big hanks.
* * *
The biggest piece of gold-mining work now
being done in N.S.W. is that of the Delegate Sluicing Co..
a few miles out of Bombala. Some years ago a local syn-
dicate attempted to bring water on this ground by
constructing a race some twenty miles out, and, at the
finish, found it was too low to work the ground, which
was practically abandoned. It was last year brought
under the not ice of Mr. J. S. Reid, at one time the biggert
shareholder on the register of the Broken Hill Proprie-
tary. He had the ground carefully examined, and finally
determined to form a powerful company—an easy matter
for him at any time—to sluice away the ground with
water lifted from the river which runs some 250 feet
below. For this reason the Austral-OtisEngineering Co.,
of Melbourne, have turned out the biggest pumping-plant
known in Australia, capable of lifting 4£ million gallons a
day. It is now on its way to the mine. The estimated
expenditure before work is started is £36,000. Many of
the local inhabitants fear the result—apparently in ignor-
ance of the fact that three or four grains to the cubic yard
should pay, while half-a-pennyweight will make it a big
thing. The men who have initiated this work have the
refusal of nearly everything new in the Australian mining
world, and it is very unlikely that they would tackle a
rank duffer with £36,000, especially when its value can be
so easily ascertained. t~.-j
* * *
John Wallace —than whom few men in Victoria
have spent more in legitimate mining work—with a few
others is laying out some £26,000 in the building of a
dam,'erection of pumping-plant, and the construction of
a race for hydraulic sluicing purposes on the Shoalhaven
River. For many years the mining-warden of the district
has urged the N.S. W. Government to carry out a work
which is now being tackled by the enterprise of a few
Victdrians.
# # »
The Last Call was a magnificently-worked piece
of villainy. In purchasing the mine from the finder the
sellers to the Sydney syndicate were mistaken in their
judgment. They bought it for £BOO and had in sight a
rich ironstone vein or deposit. It subsequently dis-
appeared, but undoubtedly its gold was used by some
person or persons to deceive Hammond. The rule was
first run oxer the Mining Warden, who reported that his
prospects averaged over twelve ounces to the ton, and
generally described the property as a mining wonder.
While Hammond was on the road, telegrams from Clon-
curry, detailing the increasing richness of the property,
poured into Sydney, so much so that before Hammond
reached his destination he had offers to purchase, at £l,
shares of which he had the refusal of 80,000 at 2s. (id.
Naturally, he concluded he was in for a very big thing.
The vendors were very independent, some of them at any
rate genuinely so, for he it remembered that if the mine
was salted by any one of them, there were snm ■ at lca«t
who had not the slightest knowledge of it. It was here
that the veil was drawn over Hammond’s s isp'cious
nature, in a word, he must have regarded those he met
there as all honest men, or he would never have been so
deceived. He can take this as a compliment or other-
wise. The writer can tell him, as he could tell the writer,
if he would, how that deception occurred, but he dare
not. Attempting to gaol a sailer is an easy way of putting
yourself there.
* * *
Recollect that the best of mining men will make
mistakes. It was the proud boast of Mark Hammond,
ever since he made a fortune out of Beyers anti Holter-
mann’s, that, while he would by over-caution miss many
a good mine, he would never put himself or his friends
into a bad one.
# * *
The world judges by averages as well as by
results. The mining expert—we detest the designation—
who condemned every mine of, say, the last hundred
floated in N.S.W., would have such a magnificent average
as to entitle him to the leading position amongst
examiners.
# # •
Prices of mining stock are not regulated by the
value of the mine so much as by the inclination and
weaknesses of the holders, simply because nine-tenths of
them cannot even approximate the value. It is the
tenacity with which the novices hold on and the bold
ad\ertisement which they give to their ideas of value that
create the fictitious value of shares.
* # #
The Crown of the Peak announces the return of
some IGoz. from 115 tons of “seconds.” Why not “ forty-
seconds?” Why this everlasting excuse of seconds? It
is less than 3dwts. to the ton, anyhow.
* # *
It is said that Professor Sobnaebel’s report,
which cost the Broken Hill Proprietary some thousands,
is, in few respects, dissimilar from that given, after a
series of experiments of the Peelwood sulphide ores, some
two years ago at a cost of some five hundred.
* * *
The manager of a Southern Co. reports that
the “ whip is completed and works well ” —that’s all the
shareholders want to know. It is a matter of perfect in-
difference as to whether the shoot of gold (a narrow one
to all 1 appearances) is richer or poorer. Everything is
booming when it is proclaimed to the world in all the
newspapers that a log of wood with a little wheel at one
end, the whole of which cost 305., is working well.
# # #
How have the mighty fallen ! A short year
ago it was a compliment to get a seat on the Sydney
Stock Exchange, even if you planked £lOOO. Now less
than £3OO will buy one.
Messrs. Cleaver the well-known manu-
facturers of Juvenia Soap, announce a grand prize
competition in connection with their snap, full
particulars of which can bo obtained from the
agents, Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Sydney. The
fir.-t prize is a cash one of £3O, the second one
£lO, and then six prizes ranging down from £5 to
ss. Every purchaser of a tablet of their soap gets
a ticket entitling the holder to compete for the
prizes. This is a novelty and no doubt many of
our readers will avail themselves of the
opportunity.
FEDERATION.
This scheme for Federation
Will soon or late secure,
For our Australian Nation,
A power that must endure,
And win for us as much of fame
As SNowwhite Flour for Pemkll’s name.
When, by reason of a cold or from any other
cause, the secretory organs become disordered,
they may bo stimulated to healthy action by the
ii.ii of Ayer’s Cathartic Pills. Sold by all dealers
in nti'divine.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will bo taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped.
“Colo”: (1) A Judge is not and cannot bo
altogether responsible for a man being hanged ; he is only
responsible for the man getting a fair trial. (2) The
Press, and public, and the N.S.W. legal system, not any
single individual (though several individuals were most
blameworthy), were responsible for the shocking Mount
Rennie affair. The Australian public never actually
lynches a man; but the Australian press does....
“ H.S.” (Park C.) : Thanks...." S.T.G.” : Monday
most convenient day.... “John Palmer”: Yes, if you
send a sample under printed conditions....“ M.S.”
(M.L.); What! For all Nelson to read! Oh, no. We
don’t work for our health only. . “ E. Vasey ” ; You
have now sent us four stories of the same sort. Y’ou
evidently have a skeleton under your hearthstone
“Gcebung ” : Vasa too far away.. . “ H.C.R.” : We don’t
take stock in lied Injun yarns. .Sufficient for Australia
are the liars thereof.... “Chuzzle M.” : Thanks.... “The
Mug ” : Good, but over-rosy “ E. Hoa” : Ecstatic piety
doesn’t go well with jim-jams...." W.R.C.” (C.): Many
thanks...." Ilaraara ” : King William summary already
published. Thanks. .. “ Harmony ” : Thanks.... “ Wal-
ter 8.R.” : Will consider “A. Dawson” (M.):
Many thanks “ France ”: To engross the title of a set of
verses is to sign their death-warrant...." Ti-Tree ” (Sil-
verton): Glad to hear from you “ Oholderton ” :
Unsuitable—merely a description of an ordinary bush
drunk “ Melicah ” ; A shark rarely swims into rough
breakers,but it will if it smells plunder come into smooth,
shallow water... “ A.11.M.” (Kangaroo Creek): (1) “The
Player Fooled” is not to hand. (2) The short poem
wanders sadly in its tenses, and is distracted in expres-
sion, though embodying a “ pretty ” sentiment. Here it
is in eight hurriedly-fixed lines:—
The Deserted Shaft.
The shaft their only hope in evening life,
The toilworn man, his still more careworn wife:
Despair had dragged him home. . . . “ Old girl,” said he,
“ The shaft’s deserted and—and so are we.
Some moneyed thieves will conic and jump the mine . . .
Quick death’s the only luck in our decline . . .
Let’s sot about it, Bet. . . . Who knows? Our share
May be to strike a paying claim up there ! ”
.... “ A.C.” (Hobart): Practically your letter means this:
“ Please state in your next issue for my personal gratifi-
cation that Mr. down here is a low scoundrel and a
hypocrite, and stand the libel costs yourself.”
“ A.11.C.” (Enfield): A Bulletin story, “ Where's My
Wife?” published years ago, was practically the same tale
much better told “Hiccup”: Great Scott ! You
don’t mean to say that you swear to all these assertions 1
“ Pakeha Maori ” : Unsuitable ; if you had found the
emaciated madman on the raft with his mouth full of the
hoy and the dog the tale might do for some cheap dread-
ful “ A.J.S.” : “ Black Jack’s ” is a grotesque parody.
A Victorian goldfield nowadays doesn’t consist of a barren
fiat, six old, moth-eaten drunkards named Bill, and two
hags whose oaths can be heard a mile away.... “A.L.0.” :
Ask Messrs. Kintoro, Playford, Griffith, Degree, and Co.
“ T. J. Oil.” : Spoil thy, for one thing, its obtrusive
domesticity....“ Morris M.” : Your “piebald story is
a chestnut. Curiously enough, it appeared, wc remem-
ber, in the very first issue of The Bulletin. Towns-
ville ” : Looks like a conspiracy ..“ M. 0.” : Then why
not write an article on “ Dynamite as a Civilizer?”
“ J. McC.” : Thanks “ L.A.P.”; Tun Bulletin i# not
conscious!}' a “comic” paper.... “J.W.Q.”: Thanks.
Next week “James B” (Armid.ale): Yes, on usual
conditions.. .. “Bilby”: Good “A.M.”: Wilkie
Collins’ villain, so far as we remember, put the victim
under the hearthstone. Edgar Allan Poe’s murdering
husband walled his wife in. .. “ Herman K." : Your story
was hardly circumstantial enough as it 5t00d...." Blue-
gum ” : A pathetic picture—that of the Scotchman
lamenting that but for his "doinmd” appetite he could
save all his money. But it doesn’t excuse the wobbly
rhyme “G.P.” (Sydney): The suggestion that your
mean shopkeeper should be described on his signboard as
Pigs & Co. is humorous. “Hog (Limited)” would be
better “O.O.O.”: Thanks. Will use if possible....
“Boiling Billy”: Received with thanks. . “Polype”;
Thanks. Jfom-de-phime rather steep, however, so altered
it. A man really shouldn’t sign himself “Disembowelled
Corpse ”or things like that,... “ Pieplant” (Clidal): We
positively decline to “encourage your young friend ’’....
“A Native Bear ” : Thanks, but we went for your enemy
last week and took his horrid scalp . “C.F.T.”: Alice,
dotes hardly good enough “B.”: Why do you stand
outside your story and address your character in that
hysterical manner?... “J.S.S.” (Goulburn): Will print
your shriek shortly “11.A.B.”: The sort of po.tyou
arc always starts by intimating that the story was told by
a swagman—evidently your kind of poet thinks that
all the human race is in the swag industry
“ E.D.” : The idea of “Breaking it Gently” is by no
means original, but as the story is nicely told, we let it
go “8.D.5.” (Cooktown): Thanks “ w.P.” (Bal-
main): “M'Ginty’s Goat” is below par. This isn’t a
goat-paper, anyhow....“ Weir ” (Melbourne): The one
drawback about your story is that it isn’t interesting ;
like death, this is incurable “ J.C.S.” : Received wilb
thanks "limner” (Mount Gambier); The biography
of the lout next door doesn’t interest us; moreover bis
language is unfit for publication. .. “ F.M.L.” : There are
eight different kinds of metre in your poem, and the senti-
ment is utterly flabby. Also the libretto has wattle in it.
“C. Junor ”; (1) We don’t really care whether we are
monomaniacs or not; (2) It is folly to say that “Nfttuie
can never bring into existence more than she can sup-
port the obvious truth is that Nature never brings into
existence more than she can kill—by disease, starvation,
or otherwise. As an illustration, doesn’t she bring
millions of rabbits into existence to die of hunger and thirst
in the drought seasons? (3) How do yon know that there
is more “law and order” in China to-day than in oM
times? Also, how do you know how the population is
increasing—there is no census. It may have taken 100,non
years to create the present population at the same slow
'increase all the time. (4) We are not “ well aware that)
the food of the future will be of chemical composition
neither are you. It is all theory. (5) We don’t know
that sterility invariably accompanies a high standam n
comfort-that also is only theory .. “Pica Quad :
is it “a bit off” to say that a woman who does trie
same work as a man, and does it equally we ,
should get the same pay ? Y'ou couldn’t give
coherent reason to save your prejudiced old scut..
“Buckegong”: Tragedy too long-drawn-out.
should put all that horror in half-a column ... “
(Nvngan): You’re another. There are only some IWW
adult males in N.S. Wales, outside Sydney and subur
Where do your 40,000 employers come from, in t the na
of holiness?.., “Cns Cendo”: Gently but firmly “
dined . ..“Carbeco” (Melbourne): Two old stories •
hashed and sewn together “ Weka” (Wwhan, M.W-
Though the Ch. Ch. people groaned at Verrall, a
Verrall advocates a State Bank, it doesn’t follow that ui y
groaned him because of the State Bank idea.
Slice of undergraduate lyric bellowed foit
at Melbourne University commemoration, 0,1
Saturday :
Ole Prof. Morris has a pimple on his nose,
But his mind goes wandering on. .
When William McGrow, of Sydney, £
years ngo attempted, after committing a mn. r \
through jealousy, to cut bis jugular and la]' ;
Alexander, bis brother, now under committal
a jealous murder, exclaimed that “it, was a 11,I 1 , •
bo didn't succeed.” Alexander’s tbroat-cu
attorn) t at suicide lias also failed. A qneerei •“(
coiucidencoi than those is rarely met wilb.


Miscellaneous.
PAPER-HANGINGS
0ils,C5loursa Paints.
WALLPAPE/iSmpM Scroll
PAI
529 George * BathurstSt,
-—- Brickfield Hill ,. -—
[ABIES!
jfl »■ -
CONSULT t>e Eminent Sfiesialisf
DR. SPEER,
29 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
TILLS GUARANTEED, 10s and £1 per box, post free
Support a New Local Industry*
-A-. JAMES,
COOKPAKOO,
Has much pleasure in announcing to the public
that he has just introduced a New Local Industry,
having completed all the necessary works, such as
Kilns, Buildings, Machinery, etc., at great ex-
pense, and having received the Chemicals and
everything necessary for the manufacture of
All Descriptions Of Pottery and Sanitary Ware,
ROMAN A MOSAIC TILES,
he is ftoW able to execute orders to any extent.
(foods are ready for inspection at the Works,
CoorparoO, where large Show-rooms are erected ;
also, Samples may be seen and prices quoted at
the Shop, next door to Finney, Isles and Co.,
Queen-street, B r i s b a n eQueensland.
OE LISSA&
GLASGOW
CROSS
PHILLIPS.
AqEHrs
■sYo^eY
ONE
GUINEA
Per Annum secures a sating of 2J to 20 per cent,
on your Yearly Expenditure.
SEiTKES
FOIt YOU
Free Medical Advice.
Free Legal Advice.
£5O Accidental Insurance.
Send for particulars to
She United (Purchasers’ (Discount (Co.,
38-44 Carrington StrSet,
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
SUMMERS BROWN, Director.
\Teve^
r&i NG
* Pleasure t° use
ft op
KBOPP
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“I find your.
Razors excel-
lent
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
, aII Dealers,
V. 1 ‘liroct from the
£,* lth Street, Soho
Square, London, \y.
RAZOR
TOO FAT
•The English method re-
duces weight permanently
by easy, safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet
nece B sar~ PRATT =r«va-ri-.r luld . “»»»eoW < h ' u S s un-
professional 11 , SYfeI EM fe universally adopted by
MUST T>inrnr w' pugilists, jockeys and otliers, who
•^OBP„ L ?i^ IDLY I keep down obesity
H 9 W T 0 Cube IT? an instructive
four stauins Ai S io ' v 141 to sent sealed envelope for
(iIIAMBERS MPrR?r S n^i'^ F S^ LLAN ’ BOURKE * WILI ' S
I*ll ATT’S is Vic. Avoid base imitations,
produce y BUr ®. aiul Poetical treatment, and must
JHB ults, Wauuantkd Quits Harmless,
Drapery.
PEOTECTIOIT.
PRn'TnoJ ION a S ainst FRAUD,
pjj TEOTIQN against CHILL.
PROtK™ a - a ! nBt discomfort.
1 ROILCTIOK against ILL HEALTH.
I®
By observing this Trade
Mark, and by
Purchasing the
GENUINE
mil COMPANY'S
UNADULTERATED
WOOLLEN CLOTHING
of the
Mercers and Hosiers.
s^ssa
:)
314 Flinders Lane (West), Melbourne.
9 Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility
PRICE 3d.,
In Stamps;
END FOR DR. KELLY’S
COMPLETE TREATISE
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints
Price Is.
In stamps.
df
M.A., M. 8., k,
gd
MEDICALi AUTHOR AND THE INVENTOR OU« T)t> TTT?T T v»c«
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, FOR THE CERTAIN CURB OF NERVOUS DEBILITY ‘
Guinea) DR. KELLY'S INTERMEDIATE BATTERY BELT WTTTT qnqpl/mqVw v a tu’ a nil
ATTACILVIENT DR S ( , VERY POWERFUL), WITH SUSPENSORY
x l AGHMLN I, DR. KELLYS ELECTRIC LIVER AND KIDNEY PADS FOR THE CURE OF
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
3 ELECTRIC) KNEE JOINT AND ELBOW PADS, FQK THE IMME
RELIEF OP
STIFFNESS IN THE JOINTS, RHEUMATISM,
IT T X7)CT T7IT I7nmr>TA /
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC CHEST PAD FOR THE CURE OF
DR.
LUNG DISEASES,
KELLY’S HOSPITAL MEDICAL &ATTERIES, RANGING IN PRICE FROM ONE TO
■ TEN GUINEAS, ACCORDING TO STRENGTH AND SIZE XU
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC POCKET BATTERY.
DR. KELLY’S ELECTRIC VARICOCELE TRUSS WILL
CURE VARICOCELE WITHOUT OPERATION
de. Kelly may be CON 8 U LT ED FREEOFCOSTsBy sueeeeees feOm
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SEIN COMPLAINTS.
P R * KELLY’S REPUTATION IS SO THOROUGHLY ESTABLISHED THAT IT WIT T.
ONLY BE NECESSARY FOR HIM TO INTIMATE, THAT HE Is PRACTTSTNC Aq a
SPECIALIST TO BE APPRECIATED AS A BENEFACTOR TO SUFFERING MANKIND AS
THE GREATER PORTION OP THE NEW SOUTH WALES PUBLICIS AWAEP DR KFT TV
IS A LEGALLY QUALIFIED AND REGISTERED PHYSICIAN* ANd
LARGEST PRACTICE IN THE COLONIES, MANY PERSONS AT A IHSTANCE HOWFVEb'
ARB UNAWARE OP HIS GREAT SUCCESS, AS, HITHERTO, HE HAS REFRAINED PROM
ADVERTISING. HENCE, TO WIDEN THE SPHERE!OP
DETERMINED, BY MEANS OP ADVERTISING, TO MAKE HIMSELp KNOWN IN REMOTP
DISTRICTS WHERE HIS REPUTATION MAY NOT YET HAVE TRAVELLED AS THE
QUESTION MAY ARISE, WHY DOES SO EMINENT A PHYSICIAN AS M I(FT,TV Pmn
IT NECESSARY TO ADVERTISE, HE MAY REPLY TO S#EAND ALL AS FOLLOWS •-
IP THERE IS A PERSON ON EARTH TO BE PITIED IT IS HE WHO IS CRT TO PT»
s° AE ii LraD ™ aa «
WHAT MUST INEVITABLY FOLLOW.
HE LOOKS HAGGARD AND SHEEPISH, HE IS NERVOUS IN PUBLIC AND P.XTRFmpt v
GIRLISH AND BACKWARD IN LADIES’ SOCIETY. THE VICTIM'OP THIS THFK
DANGEROUS OP ALL VICES, IP NOT RELIEVED, SOON REACHES A STATE WHICH MUST
END IN LIFE-LONG MISERY, HE MUST ULTIMATELY SINK TO THE LOWEST STAOP
OP DEGRADATION AND SHAME. DR. KELLY MAINTAINS THAT THE PHYSICIAN WHO
HAS THE POWER TO CURB, AND REMAINS SILENT, IS GUILTY OP AN UNPARDON ART P
SIN OP OMISSION. PERSONS WHO READ HIS GREAT WORK ON THIS SUBJECT mLL
BE SHOWN THE INEVITABLE RESULT OP THE BAD HABITS AND IN MOST
INSTANCES SUFFICIENTLY EARLY IN LIFE TO ENABLE THEM MOl3l
TO SEE THEIR FOLLY
BEFORE ANY DISEASE HAS TAKEN POSSESSION OP THEM.
SHOW THEM CLEARLY
THE BOOK WILL ALSO
HOW TO CUKE THE DISEASE WITHOUT
THE ASSISTANCE OF PHYSICIAN OR CHEMIST.
MANY PERSONS WONDER WHY THEIR MEMORY IS NOT SO RETENTIVE AND THEIR
GENERAL INTELLECT NOT SO CLEAR AND STRONG AS THEY FORMERLY WERE
DR. KELLY’S BOOK WILL EXPLAIN THE CAUSE IN PLAIN AND SIMPLE I ANGUAGE
THEREFORE, EVEN THOUGH YOU BE FREE FROM DISEASE, SEND FOR THIS GREAT
MEDICAL WORK, THAT YOU MAY BE ENABLED TO ADVISE OTHERS AFTER PERUSING
KGES VERY FREQUENTLY THIS MAY BE DONE BEFORE ANY GREAT HARM
HAS TAKEN PLACE.
SEE HIS PALE AND SALLOW FACE, UPON WHICH
DISEASE HAS LEFT ITS MARKS.
AMONG WHICH ARB
ACNE (FLESH WORMS), PIMPLES (ESPECIALLY ON THE FOREHEAD),
DARK CIRCLES ROUND THE EYES, SLUGGISH PUPILS, AND EYES
WITHOUT LUSTRE, HE HAS A HAGGARD, TROUBLED LOOK, HIS
MANNER IS ECCENTRIC, LISTLESS, SHY AND EASILY CONFUSED,
HIS MOVEMENTS ARE SHUFFLING AND UNCERTAIN, AND
BETRAY A MIND ILL AT EASE, HIS MENTAL OPERATIONS ARE
ERRATIC, HE IS EMBARRASSED, AWKWARD, AND ACTS WITHOUT
ANY FIXED PURPOSE, HE IS ABSENT-MINDED, AND GIVEN TO
REVERIE AND DESPONDENCY.
IF YOU ARE DOUBTFUL AS TO WHETHER YOU REQUIRE MEDICAL ASSISTANCE,
YOU SHOULD WRITE TO THE DOCTOR WITHOUT DELAY.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
AM I SUBJECT TO PALPITATION OF THE HEART, FLUSHES OF
HEAT, DRYNESS OF THE SKIN, PALE, SALLOW COMPLEXION,
RESTLESSNESS AT NIGHT, A DESPAIR OF RECOVERY, ANXIETY
WITHOUT CAUSE, FEAR OF DEATH, TENDENCY TO SUICIDE, LACK
OF MENTAL CAPACITY, NERVOUS IRRITABILITY, NERVOUS PROS-
TRATION, SLUGGISH LIVER, SYMPTOMS OF INDIGESTION, HEAVY
SLEEPY FEELING AFTER MEALS, PILES, PAINS IN THE CHEST’
COLD SHUDDERS, LOSS OF MEMORY, BAD TASTE IN THE MOUThI
FOUL BREATH, COATED TONGUE, HACKING COUGH, EXPECTORA-
TION, SINGING NOISES IN THE HEAD AND EARS, COSTIVENESS OR
IRREGULARITY OF THE BOWELS, SLEEPY FEELING DURING THE
DAY, PAINS IN THE BACK, SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES, WEAK OR
SORE EYES, VIOLENT TEMPER, LOSS OF AMBITION, EPILEPSY,
FITS, OR SHORTNESS OF BREATH?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK IS NOT A SMALL PAMPHLET, BUT A LARGE BOOK
CONTAINING MANY PAGES OF PRESCRIPTION AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS
AND IS WRITTEN IN SIMPLE LANGUAGE, WHICH CAN BE UNDERSTOOD BY ALL
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES'. ELECTRICITY WILL CURE
NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
IS GUARANTEED TO CURE ANY CASE OP NERVOUS DEBILITY. THIS EXCELLENT
APPARATUS, WHICH HAS BEEN SO FREQUENTLY TESTED AND RECOMMENDED BY
THE MEDICAL PROFESSION, WILL BE FORWARDED TO ANY ADDRESS ON RECEIPT
OP A POST-OFFICE ORDER FOR £1 1». PERSONS SENDING FOR THE ELECTRIC GIRDLE
SHOULD DESCRIBE ALL SYMPTOMS, AND THUS ENABLE THE DOCTOR TO SELECT A
GIRDLE OF APPROPRIATE STRENGTH. TO ENSURE SAFETY, ALL LETTERS CON-
TAINING MONEY SHOULD BE REGISTERED.
PERSONS CONSULTING DR. KELLY MAY RELY ON SECRECY AND PERFECTLY PURE
REMEDIES. FREE PROM MERCURY OR OTHER DANGEROUS INGREDIENTS
ALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES, Ac., &c , ARE FORWARDED, SECURELY PACKED FREE
FROM OBSERVATION, TO ANY PART OP THE WORLD.
ADDRESS-
3>K. W. H. KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STEEET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF
HIS LETTERS PATENT.
THIS PAPER SHOULD BE MENTIONED WHEN WRITING.
Shipping.
E
NGLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited);
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line arc appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia, Honolulu and San Franciscd
EA ERA FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
<uc cMiUiiiuie tor months, and oaloon
1 asseugers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, Sah Francisco, and any place of call
cn route to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON
STEERAGE
£63 and £66.
£3O 18s. 9d.
lor time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at tin
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
fjOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via lUttlS.
Steamers linder postal contract with the Government of
France, Calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAIIB, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KUR RAC 11 EE, BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line. Which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £6)
Including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers!
Ollduvil lor
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London.”"’For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
JJUDDART, PARKER & CO.’S LINES,
STEAM to
Victoria...
/MELBOURNE
t GEELONG.
South Australia— ADELAlDE;
West Australia
ALBANY.
VASSE.
FREER!ANTLE (Perth).
.And all North-west Ports.
Tasmania
/HOBART.
I LAUNCESTON;
The Steamers of this Line ate all of itloderrt
construction, built of steel, and embodying the
latest principles in Electric Lighting, Sanitary
Conveniences and Ventilation;
The provedoring is on the most liberal scale,
and carried ont under the Company’s personal
supervision.
FREIGHTS and FARES on all Lines are
very much REDUCED,
For DAYS and HOURS OF SAILING see
daily papers, or apply at the office, where all
information will be atfotded.
Hftddart, Parker & Co., limited.
Offices j<n-d wharf:
Foot op MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
ill
The MAGIC FEMALE PILLS, Best
and Safest. Quickly Correct Irregu-
larities and' Remove all Obstructions,
PRICE 1’0's, per Box ; No. 2, Extra*
strength, 20s. per Box. Particulars
Free. «. J». PRICE,
'P.O. Box 100. Melbourne.
Spectacles v. Blindness.
A. P. GREENFIELD,
The Only Consulting and Manufacturing Oculist
Optician in Queensland, and Honorary Ophthal-
mic Optician to Brisbane Hospital,
Treasury ItuiUlings (op. Savings Bank), livorgc St.,
BRISBANE.
Send for Self-Measurement and Pamphlet on the Eye.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse'
ALL AGENTS.


&
S 3
For the Cure of
A.l throat titttl lung diseases, Ayer’s Cherry
I'ecldrtU is the best known remedy. Wheir the,
brohchial tithes are sore and obstructed with
phlegm, this medicine is invaluable. If is an
anodyne expectorant, and, m cases of deeji
seated consumption, it cures the coughing,
soothes and heals tlie lacerated tissues, and
induces refreshing sleep. A few doses are usu-
ally sufficient to afford speedy relief in cases of
Colds and Coughs
It is also as speedily efficacious, and prompt
to allay the distressing symptoms of asthma,
bronchitis, sore throat, hoarseness, croup, and
whooping cough, and, in thousands of fami-
lies, is the only cure used. It is the best emer-
gency medicine and should always be at hand.
No household in -which there are young chil-
dren, can afford to be without
flyer's Sherry Pectoral,
PREPARED P>Y
Dr. J. C. AYER & GO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. fl.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
s>-
to
aEBY
<9
<c.
'P
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OFOPONAX
\FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM ,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or.
I'er/umer.
V 4 .
Stree' 1
Beware of imitations. The genuincis si;;aed
TRADK MARK .
<s' cv? y .
•S) c*//V s
fg
E. G. GOERTZ,
(Member Brisbane Stock Exchange),
S T OCK & SHA It E 8110 It E It,
178 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBAN lES,
lEi. UP . S A N K El
Stock and Share Broker,
GYMPIE, QUEENSLAND.
W. OFI.. DRAPE,
B®oejl anil SHAKE BROKER-
{Mauler Brisbane Stock Exchange.)
‘Office—2l BRISBANE STOCK EXCHANGE.
•iLT 'COMMISSION ONLY. TEH
■LATEST MARKETS on APPLICATION PROMPT.
PETTIGREW’S WHEAT WEAL
—is—
'proclaimed to be the best,
As it is made from the PRIMEST GRAIN to be
obtained in the COLONIES.
Made up in 31b. and 71b. Bags,
And obtainable from all respectable Grocers and
Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE FIIO M
WILLIAM PETTIGREW & SON,
William Street, BRISBANE.
T. B. HALL & CO.’S
A L DEI & STOXTT-
n 0 A R’3
HEAD
BRAND.
>a»
a
BOA R’S
HEAD
BRAND.
IRADE MARK.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
Q II, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillariiie!
ggf The Lightning Moustache Producer. H
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
n Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— 10s. Cd., Post Free.
4 It lit; A AITKIN, K«!c Agents.
680 and 082 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SVDXF.Y.
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
neatly, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and maybe used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp'
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes-and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Bcautifier, is ihdispensa- •
He. in cleansing diseased surfaces.. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Reme-
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
j63r“How to Cuke Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” Ct pages, 300 Diseases, c.
Illustrations, iod Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resglvlnt.
Cuticura Remedies’ are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura', 300. ; Cuticura Soar, 23-. ;
Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. ’,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by Cuticura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and bcautifier-,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive,of itollc-t and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive and cure ,o:f inflammation and clogging cf
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily
r Vf V,
/
A
m
u,
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
df
h
FOR THE
Complexion
Imparts to the darkest skin a clear, natural
white, tinged with the faintest rose-blush.
Speedily removes Wrinkles, Freckles, Sun-
burn and Tan, and mantles the pale and fa-
ded cheek with youthful bloom and beauty.
CAUTION.—None genuine without
the trade mark of BARCLAY & CO.,
New York, affixed to each bottle.
c
miiiun
vninu
I
498 8c 500 GEORGE STREET.
Austral Clothiers.
T*AD€MARK
A ./PI?
fw
AW wC
Ifeent.’s 'White and Fancy Vests—s/0
Cent.‘s Cashmere Vests —7/0, 8/0
<Gent.'s “Austral” Sac Suit— 22/0, 25/, 30/.
'“Austral” Business Suit—3o/, 35/, 37/0
Orn C'k!.f.rp,atf.t>
ii.K.ii. mi i t i: s ii i it fs.
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.
Prices Range ;
22/0, 2S/0, 33/, 37/0, 42/, the i-doz.
Gent.'s Silk Umbrellas, 8/0 to 4V
MERCERS,
HATTERS, and JUVENILE CLOTHIERS,
FDR INFANTS* CHILDREN & INVALIDS*
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE* LETTER.
“ll am pleased to say'that when every form of diet failed we were enabled
■to give ‘.Bender's Food and to see our Children gain rapidly and permanently.’
Fa
THE MOST DELICIOUS,
NUTRITIVE & DIGESTIBLE.
Jietail in Tins Is. Gd., Ss.'Gd., Us. andilOs., of
Chemists, etc., JBverywhm.
F. B. HENCUSR .& Co., '.Limited,
Otter Works, Manchester, ENGLAND.
Wholesale- Sydney : ELLIOTT BROS.
SANDERSON’S
LATEST 'DESIGNS:
The LYONS-The JONQUIL—The PEACOCK—The CHALONS.
These Chaste and Elegant Designs have been produced to meet the largely -increasing
demand for HIGH-CLASS DECORATIONS AT A MODERATE PRICE, alld are
recommended by Miss Charlotte Robinson, Art Adviser to the “ Queen.”
TO BE HAD OF ALL DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA.
Arthur Sanderson & Sons, Manufacturers, Chiswick, London.
£lOO,OOO CAPITAL: £lOO,OOO
HEAD OFFICE
mercantile mutual CHAMBERS-
-118 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
e nt
>7
<T5=
c©
J ite
Co
This Company is
prepared to receive proposals for
all classes of Accident Insurance; also
under the Employer’s Liability Act, Public
Risk, Workmen’s Insurance and Common Law.-
H. GRAYSON CROSSLY
General Manager.
Heaa —‘ A Golden
Stianty-’
The Stage Fight.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
How often li>t. .. - watched it, .
And trembling held our breath;
That crown of melodrama
The struggle to the death !
The hero and the villain;
An ill-assorted jiair,
uet obulplicatcd soihehoW
1A d cdiru;it affair.
The tirhiot I’.iVoiijjU his goodness;
, The Idtler through his guile ;
Tiie innocent gets punished,
The ghilty scoops the pile.
See where the exile slumbers
In An Untrodden land,
The limelight oil his features,
A photo, ill his hand.
The ednVaS rocks are rugged,
, And Steep the canvas wall :
The tap; being turned on, swiftly
St reams ilbCvtl the waterfall.
He drednis of httme and mother,
And, audible the dream,
it thrills t!Ve jhit and circle
AbhVe the Splashing stream.
The AddleS sigh and tremble,
Tiie ho.'dest hold their breath.
As, clambering down the background.
The villain breathes of death.
He nears the sleeping hero
And vents a fearful roar.
And then tucks up his shirt-sleeve
And hares his blade for gore.
Meanwhile, the virtuous person.
Still in the limelight sheen,
Springs up and draws his bowie.
Illuminates the scene.
The weapons clang and clatter,
The sparks fly thick and fast,
They fight all round the precipice,
Spectators stand aghast.
Ila, ha, the villain’s weapon,
Falls flashing on the stage,
And headlong down the canyon
He dives, in battled rage.
A paper flutters from him,
While hanging in suspense,
Tiie victor reads: “ What, this ! It is !
It proves my innocence.”
These are the good old fictions
That come from Surrey Side —
And prosperous they are who
Such pabulum provide.
QUANDONG.
Forty-five per cent of the world’s wool is
produced by Australia.
The bulk of the London property is in the
hands of 5000 people, and you can narrow these
down to 500, 50, and 5, as the landlordry increases,
geometrically.
One, Beaton, writes to a Charters Towers
IN. Q.) paper, showing that .£3BO ss. was the
profit made on 25 acres of sugarcane,or £l5 2s. per
acre. .lamps Tracksou recently stated in the
Queenslander that ho got from GO to 80 tons of
sugar per acre, yielding him from £3O to £4O
profit per acre. Last year, the total output of '
sugar in Bananaland was 00,0831, tons, .or more
than 10,000 tons over the output of ’OO. The
argument that the sugar industry is dying because
it cannot use Kanaka labour is a wilful deception ;
the planters are merely gluttonous for still greater
profits.
Murrieta and Co., the great London
bankers, have burst, and the bailiffs are in
possession. When Barings collapsed the Bank of
England found the money to avert niter insol-.
vency on the security of certain guarantors, of
whom Murrieta was one. If it hadn’t done so
there would have been a smash which would bavo
wrecked half the financial institutions in London,
the Bank of England, most probably, among the
rest. In other words, the Bank propped up
Baring, and Murrieta propped up the Bank, and
now there is nobody to prop up Murrieta, and
the time is getting near when all the financial
daddocks will go together. At latest advices
Barings owed the Bank of England £6,500,000,
and the only security for it was the guarantee of
Murrieta and a few other institutions, allot' which
were also busy guaranteeing each other astheonly
means of keeping afloat. Which, taking it all
round, is much the same as Bell and Davis guar-
anteeing Matthias Larkin, and Larkin guarantee-
ing Bell and Davis, and Parkes giving his
promissory-note as security for the lot, and the
p.n. being duly endorsed by the Northumberland
Banking Co.
The United Kingdom has been a woeful
place ever since Clarence died. Great, grief-
stricken, befogged, and murky Loudon is swamped
in crape, and every human-being belonging to
“fashionable society” looks like a moving ink-
blot against a background of wretchedness. The
dress circle at the leg-show is black with dreary
mourning. All the great shabby-genteel multi-
tude from one end of the kingdom -to-the other has
put on tiie rusty garb of woe in.order-to create a
baleful impression that it moved habitually in
royal society, and that the death of Clarence is to
It as the loss of a near friend. The haggard widow,
vvith mittens and corkscrew ringlets, who keeps a
boarding-house, sits up with a pained expression
of countenance on the black, slippery, horsehair-
iofa in the parlour. The grocery-woman and
the cheesemongering female are got up in black
jostumes—as a rule the costumes are recently
dyed and still damp, and when the grief-stricken
person gets too near the fire a cloud of steam
rises from her as if she were a bereaved relative
hying on a clothes-line. Even the infant, in
middle-class society, is expected to look sad and
pre-oocupied and to wear a far-away expression.
Banquets and public feeds have been stopped, and
the melancholy waiter is going into the work-
house. The hansom-cabmen are fast going
lead-broke; people avoid the hansom as
much as possible in times of national
lamentation; the solemn, cheap, and infected
four-wheeler is held to bo better adapted to
the situation. Most of the drapers are approach-
ing ruin ; people under ordinary conditions habitu-
dly buy new clothes, but they don t buy new
mourning-the age and rustiness of the latter is
an additional evidence of the wearer’s woe. Even
window curtains aren't washed so regularly as
they used to be, and front steps are allowed to get
murky as an evidence that the inhabitant inside
has forgotten them owing to the great trouble that
is preying on his vitals. Everybody is wearing
out his old, disused bell-topper—the crape-band
serving to conceal the bash in the brim ; every
paper is still talking about the “ illustrious dead
it is raining most of the time and the streets are
sodden, and a few enthusiasts have still got a half-
mast flag flopping wretchedly in the breeze—and
yet nobody, or hardly anybody, really cares
whether Clarence is dead or not. The nation is
only weeping through force of habit and inherited
grovel.


Silly Delicious
WITH
CHOPS,
STEAKS,
FISH, &c.
MAKES COLD MEAT A LUXU. Y.
The Most Delicious Sauce in the World.
KSHIRI
EOS
BLENDS ADMIRABLY WITH ALL GRAYIES.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Sold Everywhere.
- Wholesale: TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
3E* o aiti ve Xy "fc Is. e Bs 3 t XX ai — HX ress i 11 B
For Strengthening, Beautifying and Preserving the Hair.
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer,
Used by thousands daily. Its Superiority is Unsurpassed.
EcLtt7'3-x<3.s’ 6 ’
m
• -,>'
AFTER USE.
Positively Forces
Luxuriant Hair*
Whiskers
AND
Moustac hio s
To grow heavily in a few
weeks, without injury to the
skin, and no matter at
what age.
a
AFTER USE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
From whatever Cause arising As a producer of WHISKERS and MOUSTACHIOS it has never been equalled,
AS A CURER OF
Weak & Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour never fails.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to he perfectly Harmless and Devoid of any
Metallic or other Injurious Ingredient.
Nothing so Effectual as Edwards’ “ Harlene.”— “ Dear Sir,— l am very pleased to Say that your‘ Harlene’ is
taking effect upon my hair. Have tried several remedies, but none have proved so effectual as Edwards II u lene.
E. RICK EX, 595 High Road, Gunnersbury.”
A Wonderful Discovery —“ Dear Sir,—Yours is indeed a wonderful discovery. I have used one bottle, and can
detect an ' irTVny hair alre’ady. Please send another bottle.-W. A. RUDSTEAD. 46 Handsworth
Street, Glasgow.” TT , ~ .
An An mods Father Satisfied.— “ Sir, lam pleased to test ify to the efficacy of your Harlene. My little boy
(U years old) has had a bald place on the back of his head from his birth. I applied the Harlene to the place daily,
and the result has been most satisfactory ’’—Aame and address suppressed by desire. Original may be seen.
Is 2s 6d 3s 6d. and ss. 6d. per Bottle. To be obtained from the leading Merchants, Wholesale
’* * ’’ * ’ Druggists, Chemists, and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
Manufactured Only by
EDWA XL D S d Co.j
95, High Holborn, London, England.
The Rev. Henry Martyn’s Saved Souls.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Some Northern stories are good, but not
true. Others are true, but not good. Others are
not true and not good either. This story is both
good and true.
# * #
Ten years ago the Rev. Henry Martyn
was Church of England minister at Sheet-o’-bark,
N.Q. Sheet-o’-bark was then a wilder but a
busier place than it is now. Two big sugar-
plantations were in full swing just outside the
township. Both have since been ruined by bad
management; but in the Rev. Henry Martyn’s time
there were nearly 400 South Sea islanders on the
two plantations ; with over a hundred women, and
children too numerous to count.
It was the keenest pleasure the parson had to
ride out and baptise according to the rites of the
Church of England the babies that cropped up
irregularly every month. “ Brands plucked from
the burning,” he called them. The dusky fathers
and mothers did not object but rather approved
of the ceremony as helping to drive away the
debil-debil and providing some safe-guard against
measles.
But there was a very large fly in the Rev.
Henry’s ointment. The Sheet-o’-bark R.C. priest,
Father Murphy by name, had also con-
ceived a vehement desire to rescue the perishing
Kanaka, and very often when the parson reached
the plantations and had washed off the dirt of his
20-mile ride, he found that his rival had been
before him, and had christened every available
infant after the Romish fashion, besides establish-
ing a lien on the souls of several who were yet
in embryo, by dexterously cajoling the prospec-
tive mammas.
It appeared to be all the same to the Kanakas
which faith their progeny professed; but once the
creed was chosen they stuck to it. Round_ the
neck of every child that Father Murphy baptised,
he hung a cheap rosary—“ the mark of the beast”
the Rev. Henry privately called it - and no per-
suas:on or solicitation could prevail upon the
parents to take it off. The parson found some
consolation in the fact that the priest was not per-
mitted to meddle with the little flock whom he
sprinkled, but it out him to the heart to see the
number in the opposition fold.
By degi’ees the competition grew keener. Priest
and parson had been accustomed to make one
visit a week to the plantations. The one became
two, and the two three. At last the jealousy
grew so great that each paid a scout to ride in
and inform him when a birth was expected ; and
the plantation doctor had to make a rule that no
baby should be baptised under twenty-four hours
of age, the inconsiderate zeal of the Rev. Henry
having watered one very young youngster so
liberally that it expired in convulsions ten
minutes afterwards. Still, its soul was safe; and,
as the parson remarked, that was the great point.
# # *
The Rev. Henry Martyn was riding along
the road to the Yankalilla plantation, one
November morning ten years ago. He was not a
bad-looking man—careless of appearance, but with
a winning face that made friends everywhere. His
horse was jaded; for he had ridden to Yankalilla
and back on the preceding day without being
rewarded by a solitary christening. But the first
thing that morning his scout had arrived, panting
with the news that there had been two births at
Bindoola during the night.
Two souls to save ! The Rev. Henry was used
to the saddle, though he felt rather stiff. His
horse looked stiffer, but the good man never
hesitated for an instant. He took a hurried
breakfast and started at once. Father Murphy
had had all the luck lately, and the harvest of
small Catholics was plentiful. All the more
reason for the Rev. Henry to make haste, and
though a merciful man to his beast, he stuck the
spurs in vigorously. But hardly had he got two
miles out of town when he met Father Murphy’s
scout, whom he knew by sight, and hated as
much as bis gentle nature permitted, cantering
quickly along, with his news plainly written on
his face.
The Rev. Henry made a quick calculation. It
was a quarter-past nine. The road was a first-
class one—the best in Queensland —level and well-
made, but it was a good eighteen miles to
Bindoola. His horse was obviously flagging. At
best he could not reach the plantation under two
hours. Two hours ! In a quarter of an hour at
most Father Murphy, whose horseflesh was as
good as his whisky, would have the news; and
the Rev. Henry knew him too well not to be sure
that in ten minutes more he would be cantering
along the Bindoola track. His scout would be .
bound to tell him who was in front, and the
information would doubtless have its effect.
The parson reckoned, in the first place, that he
had forty minutes start; in the second place, that
the priest, going twice as fast, would catch up to
him in an hour and twenty minutes; thirdly, that
Father Murphy would reach Bindoola at least
twenty minutes in front of him; and in twenty
minutes at a push one could baptize every blessed
Kanaka on the plantation. His mind was made
up. He would press on to Tinwood’s selection,
over the river, borrow a fresh horse and—two
souls would be saved. His spurs were red now.
“ Man proposes,” and then the other fellow
interferes and upsets the proposition. The Rev.
Henry had gone some six miles further, at the
best speed he could muster, when his horse stag-
gered and stopped dead lame. Here was a quan-
dary. He was just in sight of the Roberts River,
Tinwood’s was two miles farther on, Father
Murphy was 20 minutes behind coming up
steadily at a hand-gallop and two souls to save.
He had nlechanically walked down to the bridge
leading his limping horse. The Roberts was a
strong stream at any time; but there had been
heavy rains on its watershed during the last few
days, and the water was nearly up to the bridge.
He led the horse across. If the bridge was
washed away now .
Just then his eye caught the glitter of steel by
the side of the road. The Divisional Board
labourers had been making some repairs to the
bridge and had gone on further, and the tools
they did not need were left till they returned.
There were axes, saws, and a stout crowbar.
In a flash a tempting demon had possession of
the Rev. Henry.
# # #
The bridge was some 40ft. long. Piles
had been driven in the middle of the stream, and
each span was bridged by two tough, hardwood
girders a foot in diameter. On these lay the
decking with a slight railing on each side. The
bridge had only been up five years ; but the wet
seasons and floods had played havoc with it and
heavy traffic had to cross by the ford some hun-
dred yards below. The Rev. Henry seized a
crowbar with the uncertain motions of a preacher
in a dream. He had little trouble in prizing off
the decking, including some new boards which
had been put on by the works party the previous
day. He worked with the furious energy of a
madman. He remembered afterwards reflecting
that someone might come along the scrub track at
any moment and surprise him ; but the idea left
no impression at the time.
Steadily working, in five minutes he had tossed
all the decking up to the middle of the bridge into
the river. Not an instant was wasted. Father
Murphy would be up in ten minutes. He moved
as coolly and methodically as a somnambulist.
Stepping back along the girder, he seized a two-
handled saw, and began to use it with desperate
strength. Had the girder merely rested on the
bank, he would have tried to prize it off; but it
ran eight or ten feet into an abutment of loose
stones. The saw was his only resource. For-
tunately, it would only be necessary to cut through
one girder. A bold man might get a horse across
on two with the aid of some saplings; but he
could do nothing with one.
A foot of hardwood to saw through in five
minutes !—for Father Murphy might come up at
any moment, and the Rev. Henry needed two
minutes to get under cover. Luckily for him, the
sun had split the girder, the ants had bored it,
and the water had rotted it. His heart palpitated
. with the unaccustomed labour; but m four
minutes he had the satisfaction of seeing the
girder drop into the stream. The other end
loosened by the shock, held out an instant against
the force of the rushing water ; then it too fell,
and the heavy log was whirled round and round
by the current in its progress to the sea.
Of the Roberts Bridge which cost the Divisional
Board <£3oo, half remained intact. The other
half was represented by a solitary girder. And
the Rev. Henry Martyn, M.A., clerk in holy
orders, minister of the Established Church of
England, and pastor of the Sheet-o’-bark congre-
gation, had done the deed.
He threw down the saw, and hurriedly led his
lame steed round the turning of the road. He
was not a moment too soon. As he turned the
corner he heard the regular footfall of a cantering
horse coming up to the bridge behind him. Father
Murphy had gained five minutes on his calcula-
tions.
The good father looked in amazement at the
ruins of the bridge. Peering over to the other
side he could see the sawn end of the girder. But
he could form no theory to account for an event
so unaccountable. He plainly saw that he could
not cross the bridge to Bindoola, and that his rival
had crossed but one glance at the boiling water
proved sufficiently. “ One might get to heaven
that way,” he muttered, “but not to Bindoola.”
He waited an hour, but no one came to the other
side of the bridge though he was joined on the
town side by three horsemen. One of them crept
along the remaining girder and gave it as his
opinion that there had been foul play. Another
tried the ford, and was nearly drowned without
getting across. The third, asking the priest to
take his horse back, made his way along the
girder and walked the rest of the journey.
Father Murphy sighed deeply. The light was
gone out of his day. Then leading the horse
entrusted to him he rode back to town to tell
the news.
# * *
The Rev. Henry Martyn walked on to
Tinwood’s. He was prostrated by the severe and
unusual labor he had performed ; his clothes were
wringing wet; and he looked as unclerical as any
scarecrow. But his physical anguish was nothing
to his anguish of mind. All the possible conse-
quences of his act now rose threateningly before
his shuddering consciousness. He saw the wide-
eyed astonishment of his congregation, of his
friends, of his bishop, when they learned his
guilt; he pictured himself in a felon’s cell supping
hominy and picking oakum; and to all the horrid
pictures which his lively fancy conjured up his
tender conscience played rythmical accompani-
ment, the burden of which was that the detection
of his sin was a small matter compared with the
gravity of that sin itself. He wished he had
never seen Bindoola, never come to Sheet-o’-bark,
never joined the ministry, never been born.
When he got to Tinwood’s he accounted for his
appearance by his long walk in the sun. The
horse was readily lent him, and when he had
taken a glass of milk and rested himself, he felt
refreshed and better able to look calmly at his
exploit. Before he had reached Yankalilla he
had made up his mind that confession was im-
possible.
His spirits rose, too, when he found things at
the plantation were even brighter than they were
represented. He baptised three infants, and as
he rode away next morning his spirits rose. At
Tinwood’s he found his own horse sufficiently
rested to carry him home slowly, and learnt the
great news that the Roberts Bridge had been cut
by some villains unknown.
“ What time did you cross, Mr. Martyn ? ”
queried Tinwood.
“I think it would be about 10 o’clock,” be
replied in a steady voice.
“ And Johnson came down at half-past ten and
found half of it gone,” commented Tinwood. “ Xt’s
a mvstery to me how they did it.”
“Do you think I’ll be able to get across’”
asked the Rev. Henry.
“ Oh, I think so ! ” said Tinwood. “ The road-
gang were at it all yesterday afternoon. The
cheek of the fellows in taking their tools amuses
me. ” .
The Rev. Henry rode down to the river. There
some curious residents were watching the opera-
tions of the road-party and discussing the wonder-
ful event. The workmen had got a new girder in
place and were laying a temporary decking.
“ Good day, sir,” said the Board’s overseer,
who knew the parson well, “this is a nice job,
this here.”
“ What could have been the object of the
persons who cut it ! ” asked the guilty parson
with dry lips.
“Blest if I know, sir; it seems to me nothing
but pure mischief.”
In such conversation the Rev. Henry was
compelled to take part until the bridge was
sufficiently repaired for the horse to cross over;
when he rode away bursting with shame at his
horrible hypocrisy.
* * *
There was a magisterial enquiry, at which
the Rev. Henry Martyn gave evidence as to the
circumstances connected with the cutting of the
Roberts Bridge; but nothing material was
elicited. Perhaps Father Murphy smelt a rat;
but if he did—well, he was a gentleman and held
his tongue. Peace to his ashes ! Malarial fever
carried him off half a generation ago.
The Divisional Board offered a reward of <£so
for the conviction of the offenders; the police
arrested several unlucky waifs and strays and dis-
charged them again, and Martyn secretly gave
them a donation apiece to ease his conscience ; but
the mystery has never been explained till now. If
there is any moral to this story, it is that when a
parson has done a shady action he should lie low
like any ordinary sinner and say nothing about it.
S.


Messrs. Oolemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTI N,
BROinCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colkmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LMTD
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: .... London, E.C.
Branches in Australia : MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and ROCKHAMPTON.
BROKERS IN WOOL, GRAIN, TALLOW, HIDES, SKINS, LEATHER, ETC
General Manager in Australia DAVID ELDER.
VV- H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
|iiiulntinuuiinninmu»im»fl
Pianos, Organs 3VEusic, &c.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAY and SONS. JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL and LEICHLEITER. CARL ECKE.
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “BELLING.”
ESTEY ORGANS. Boosey’s BAND INSTRUMENTS.
Pianos Tuned, Hired or Exchanged.
EASY TIME PAYMENTS FROM 20S. A MONTH.
NEW PREMISES—
-330 George Street
Largest Stock of new and Popular
Sydney.
Music.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
TH© CELEB RATED
bEXOIEL.
ALU OTHERS!
FIRST PRIZES
-»ALL-
-E?-X JE* JES &
W&oleeale Depot:
231GLARENCE-ST
SYDNEY.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize Tgj
at the
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS,” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO'S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS
Sole Agents: MCCARTHY A CO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
supplied on most
McCarthy & 00.,
669 GEORGE STREET
Tobacco AXercliants,
(HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
w.
BarryS
FORTHE
HAIR
AND
SKIN.
ESTABLISHED 1801.
An elegant dressing exquisitely perfumed, removes
all impurities from the scalp, prevents baldness and
gray hair, and causes the hair to grow Thick, Soft
ana Beautiful. Infallible for curing eruptions, dis-
eases of the skin, glands and muscles, and quickly
healing cuts, burns, bruises sprains, &c.
Caution —'None genuine without the trade-mark of
BaucliAY & Co.. New York, affixed to each bottle.
Cleavepb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
D R
REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., P.C.S.
BUTTER-SCOTCH
SE celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
_____
CHAS. GREAVES’
FAMILY HOTEL,
GRAFTON.
I®” The Best Table North of Sydney. “St
Not Retributive Justice.
A STORY OF SPINIFEX LAND.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Can’t find ’em, can’t you ?”
The speaker—a tall, middle-aged man—was
leaning against the tail of a horse-dray, addressing
a trembling black boy, of about 14.
“ Now, just you be off again, and if you are not
back with the whole lot before sunset down there,”
and the speaker indicated a certain point in the
heavens, “I’ll hide the immortal soul out of you.
I heard the bells just before daylight, so they
must be camped close handy.”
The boy gave a_ longing look at the fire, for the
winter mornings in North Queensland are sharp,
and he had nothing on but his shirt; then, with
the bridle trailing over his arm, he departed in
search of the missing horses.
His master, owner, employer (call him what
you will) lit his pipe and laid himself down upon
his blankets for a smoke. He was a man who
prided himself on having been a gentleman and
owning an aristocratic name. He also boasted
that he could break in a black boy properly (a
small boy, of course), and had a general,
all-round swagger about him that, however,
could always be reduced by reference to
a certain of a station he was once
employed on. What time he was conspicuous
by his sudden disappearance and immediate
return, after the trouble was over, with the
announcement that he had gone to the back-
verandah of the kitchen to get his revolver. Some
of the boys said they found his tracks under the
water-tank.
The sun was high above the spot indicated
before the boy returned, mounted, barebacked, on
an old horse with a muffled bell round its neck.
He dropped wearily from its back, having been
belting it along with the hobbles and his bare
heels, fora couple of miles or more. “’N other
fellow gone,” he said regarding the “ white ’ man
timidly, “This one bell you bin hear.”
. Delcourt, the individual in question, got up
silently and went to the tail of the dray. “ Last
time I send you after horse,” he muttered. “ Put
my saddle on,” he continued, “I’ll go myself.”
The boy saddled the old horse obediently while
Delcourt, after rummaging for some time, finally
came up with a pair of very small handcuffs.
The boy guessed, from experience, what was
coining; but, after all, it was no great hardship
to be handcuffed to the dray-wheel until Delcourt
came back. He could sleep, and he was tired.
Naturally he supposed that was all that was in-
tended—to prevent him running away. He had
been served so before.
Delcourt told the boy to go under the dray and
he down. He did so, and his hands were hand-
cuffed through the spokes of the wheel, over his
head, as he lay on his back. Then his “em-
ployer ’ fastened his shins to two spokes of the
opposite wheel with a couple of saddle-straps.
This the boy did not quite understand, but he was
helpless, his feet sticking out from beneath the
dray as far as his ankles, or a little above.
“Now, my lad, I’ll make you hop along quick
next tune you go to look for horses for me. I’ll
roast your lazy toes for you. You’ve been sitting
under a tree all the morning with the old horse’s
bell tied up. FU teach you.”
. He dragged a burning log from the fire and put
it close to the soles of the boy’s feet, then he piled
on a few more sticks, and, getting on the horse
rode away.
For the first few minutes while the fire still
smouldered the warmth was not unpleasant, and
the wearied lad dozed off. He was soon awakened.
The fire blazed up brightly, and agonising yells
began to resound through the solitude. They
brought no answer, save the caws of a frightened
crow, disturbed from its meal at the deserted
camp-fire. In about four hours’ time Delcourt
returned with the missing horses. The fire had
burned itself out, and the boy was either senseless
or dead.
He released him, dragged him from under the
dray, and threw a blanket over him, for at that
moment he heard voices and the tread of horses
coming from another direction.
He was busy hobbling the horses when the new-
comers arrived on the scene. Two men with a
couple of packhorses.
“ W hy, Delcourt,” said the first one to dis-
mount, a slight, dark, wiry little man with a
crippled hand, “you’ve not got far; we did not
expect to overtake you for another thirty miles.”
“I’ve been after my horses all day, ” returned
Delcourt, rising from his task, “and my bov is
sick too.”
“ What’s the matter with him ?” said the other,
a man with white beard and hair.
“ Fever, 1 suppose, you know how blacks cave
in.”
One of the men stopped over the boy and
turned the blanket back. “He looks d d
queer,” he said; “give me some water.” The
other handed him a quart-pot full, and he bathed
the boy’s face and breast, until he revived some-
what, and drank greedily of the remainder.
“ You fellows going to turn out here?” said
Delcourt coolly at this juncture. Neither answered.
The boy, in his clutch at the quart-pot, threw
aside the blanket, and the keen eyes of the shorter
man were attracted by the appearance of the boy’s
feet.
‘‘What’s the meaning of this, Delcourt?” he
said sharply.
“O,” returned the other carelessly, “ we came
over some fresh burnt country yesterday, and
the young beggar had been hammering his horse
so I made him walk.”
“You liar!” returned the other fiercely.
“We’ve seen your tracks for nearly sixty miles,
and there is not an acre of burnt country between
here and the foot of the tableland. Besi les I’ve
seen scores and hundreds of niggers hunting over
freshly burnt country, but never saw one with
feet like that;” and he pointed to the scorched
and crippled members.
The elder man had arisen by this time, and now
spoke before Delcourt could collect himself.
“ This is some of your work,” he said, “ I have
heard of it before. This time by (here
he swore an oath rather too common in the
spinifex country) yon shall answer for it.”
“The boy did it himself,” said Delcourt sul-
lenly in answer, without resenting the lammase
used to him.
“ That shall be seen to,” said the other. “ Re-
member both I and T here are magistrates,
* 8 n °t brought safely into
i il nave a warrant out against you for murder.”
Ihe boy never came in. Delconrt said that he
ran away ! Nobody could do anything. Nobody
could prove he didn’t run away, although every-
body believed it to be a lie. Delcourt got a worse
name than before, that was all, and he didn’t
mind that.
Retributive justice overtook him many years
& i er^ ar^S ,n an °*ber land, where the natives
slew him. But although in a certain sense it was
retributive it was not poetical justice; for a
British man-o’-war came along and shot the
natives for wiping him out.
NINGHI.
The fine Argus plunge over the English
cablegrams ve Williams tots up towards a thou-
sand pounds. These cables, by the way, are copy-
nght and are republishable in other papers only
by special permission even when the Argus has
already printed them. This point was decided
years ago in an injunction granted by Molesworth,
aenr., with his usual sniffs.
An amiable crank in Sydney D.T. suggests
that legislation be immediately introduced to put
a stop to street-smoking. What! Before full
local option has become the law of the land?
Never ! It is too previous.
“Besides this evidence, I can call, if neces-
sary, seven witnesses,” last week said a certain
green young Sydney lawyer, whose future is all
behind him. “ But you forget,” responded Brob-
dignagian Giles, P.M., “that it is the quality,
not the quantity, of evidence that is regarded
here.” Good old epigrammatic Ko Ko!
A son of the late Sir Frederick Whitaker,
of M.L., has just bought for .£l5OO a seat on Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange.
We pause to take a breath when we read
in a back blocks contemporary that dead rabbits
are used as sheep fodder on a station on the
Darling.
“Joe” Chamberlain, the glorified screw-
maker, protests against the abolition of the
House of Lords ; he considers it a “ stately and
picturesque part of the British Constitution.”
That convenient “correspondent” who
always writes to Sydney Echo to say the things
that the Echo is afraid to say itself, turns up once
more, as follows :
“ Curious ” writes:—As an instance of the superiority
of articles sold in freetrade countries as compared with
those of the same kind sold under a protective policy it
may be pointed out that the cement used by Deeming at
Rainhill in freetrade England completely prevented the
escape of effluvia from the bodies buried under the
hearthstone. The cement used in Melbourne did not, it
would seem, hermetically seal the hole under the hearth-
stone at Windsor.
By a strange coincidence an equally genuine cor-
respondent has just written to The Bulletin
pointing out the great superiority of the Aus-
tralian protected policeman over the British free-
trade constable. The poor, miserable officer who
is raised on Foreign-trade principles never even
knew that wholesale murder has been going on,
while the “ cop ” who is grown upon a sound
Protectionist system caught the assassin right off.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
AN INNOVATION.
A SAC SUIT from £1 10s. Write for Patterns and
System of Measurement. J. S. MANVVARING, Brisbane.
Mrs. Osborne, the London jewel-thief, has
been scratched out for <£40,000 in her grandfather’s
will.
Donald (Vic.) Express on the 17th of
Ireland :
St. Patrick’s Day broke early, and it broke smiling.
Just glance at the smiling faces on all sides. See how the
very atmosphere is radiated by the brightness of the
happy countenances, and responds in joyous vibrations to
the glowing feelings of the laughing multitude. See how
the dazzling eyes and beaming cheeks of the beauteous
maidens are reflected in the sunlit heavens, and the gold
of the sun dancing on the glinting brow of the occasion is
sent glistening back again like flrerays falling upon a
lake of diamonds. Diamonds ! Ah ! And what priceless
diamonds jewels, my bhoy—of human beauty sparkled
and glittered on all sides.
It reads like a quotation from Dan. O’Connor.
“WHY HE NEVER LOOKED BEHIND
HIM ”
“ After this I never looked behind me.”
This is a very common expression. What do
people mean by it ? Lot’s wife looked behind her
and was changed into a pillar of salt. A locomo-
tive driver in America looked behind him one day
last summer and so didn’t see an open drawback
in front of him. Hence a wreck and great loss of
life. A man in London faded to look behind him
and was run down by a hansom. What shall we
do as a rule? Look behind us or not ?
We introduce a man who says he never looked
behind him —after a certain time. How are we to
take his meaning ? Why, by letting him explain
it.
He goes on to say that in one day in February,
1890, he was suddenly seized with dizziness and
pain in his head. Like all healthy people, under
similar circumstances, he didn’t know what to
make of it. He says he felt strange and queer, he
shivered as though the weather had suddenly
turned cold, and then flushed witli the heat as
though it had turned hot again. What ailed him?
His doctor said he was attacked with influenza,
and ordered him to bed. He went to bed. A few
days later the fever left him, but the illness did
not. It merely assumed another form. His
tongue looked like a piece of brown leather, and
his skin and the whites of his eyes became yellow,
like old parchment. We must all eat to live, but
when this man tried to eat, the food went against
him, and after he had swallowed it by main force,
it caused such pain in the chest, side, and stomach
that he wished he had let it alone. Then his
heart began to palpitate, and he says he felt low,
languid, and tired. He had what he calls a sink-
ing feeling at the pit of the stomach and a
craving which nothing satisfied.
Being unable to take any but liquid food he
grew so weak that he was barely able to walk.
Then his heart troubled him once more, and, to
quote his own words, “As I sat in my chair I
could hear my heart thumping as if somebody teas
pounding me on the hack. ”
This showed that the heart had too much work
on hand and was struggling under it like a horse
trying to carry two men. “ I got very little sleep
at night,” he says, “and would lie awake for
hours tossing about on the bed.” This sort of
thing is very wearing, and we are not surprised to
learn that he lost flesh until little was left of him
but skin and bone. “My cheeks,” he says, “ sank
in until they were almost drawn together, and
people shook their heads and predicted that my
time in this world was nearly up. Still I had all
confidence in my physician and kept on taking his
medicine. From first to last I took some forty or
fifty bottles of it (of all kinds) without benefit.
“Finally one day the doctor sounded my lungs
and asked me if any of our family died of con-
sumption. He said that the heart palpitation was
caused by dyspepsia. Then he said I had better
take further advice; he could do no more for me.
This was after nine months of his treatment. I
gave up all hopes of getting better, and, indeed,
no one expected me to.
“It was now winter again, December, 1890.
One day I found a little book or pamphlet in the
house, that I had never seen before. It was about
a medicine called Mother Seigel’s Syrup, arid
described a case like mine having been cured by it.
Without going into all my hopes and fears on the
point, it is enough to say that I got a bottle from
Mr. Kirkman, Chemist, Ellerby Lane. I took the
contents of that bottle and certainly felt a little
better. I took a second and began to eat solid
food, which agreed with me.
“ After this I never looked behind me, though
my recovery was a work of time, for I was very
much reduced. I stuck to the medicine, and with
good reason, and at last got back to my work,
strong and well, and have remained so ever since.'
When I went back to the works the foreman and
others gathered round me and asked what had
wrought the wonderful change. I answered,
“ Mother Seigel’s Syrup had wrought it.” When
I said I wished to start work they told me I must
first be examined by a doctor. The doctor said I
was fit for work and I went to work the next
morning and have never lost a minute since.
“ I wish others to know what Seigel’s Syrup has
done for me, and I give the proprietors permission
to publish this brief account of my case. lam a
cloth presser by trade and have worked at Messrs.
Hepworth and Sous, Clay Pit Lane, for four
years.” Harvey Askew, 2 Back Timber Place,
Ellerby Lane, Leeds.
The doctor was right in saying that the apparent
heart trouble in Mr. Askew's case arose from
dyspepsia, for dyspepsia was his only ailment.
And if he had used Mother Seigel’s Syrup in
February, 1890, he would have had no tale to tell,
for he would have been all right directly. As it
is we are glad that after he did try it lie had no
relapse. He never looked behind him.


Medical*
NERVOUS MEN
Mu,', 4'
\\ \ \'\« V \ L /Wn W &£: 4 *fill i,
&y/
u
EUREKA
electric belt
y
>Nf
m
'±L
%\
A NEVER RAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
(DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. |
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
JiERVOtIS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
ftnd-al! Weakness caused.by indiscretion. Tains in the
feck. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
feadder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are stetidy and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous, |
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak- |
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength, !
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and. informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. £
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY"
Box 916, €L B. 0., Svdnky.
WICKHAM HOUSE
HYDROPATHIC ESTABLISHMENT,
Brisbane.
Resident Consulting Physician:
Dr. J. BINNS SOUTH AM.
A Home for the Invalid seeking rest and change.
The Food Supply of the Best Quality, suitably prepared.
Further particulars and prospectuses, apply to
Mr. HARRY ROOT, Manager.
Samuel Maogregor & Co.,
Stock ami Station Agents,
SHEEP & CATTLE SALESMEN,
188 Queen Street,
B Ft I S 33 A KT E.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advan ei, Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
Hie Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Miscellaneous.
3E3E. "WISE & CO.,
PUBLISHERS OF TUB
“New South Wales Post Office Directory,”
“Victoria Post Office Directory,”
“New Zealand Post office Directory,”
“Queensland Official Directory,”
“ Tasmania Post Office Directory.”
326 Flinders Lane W., MELBOURNE ; 27 Victoria Cham-
bers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY; Power’s Buildings,
Queen Street, BRISBANE; Princes St., DUNEDIN, N.Z.
MARSHALL*
TONIC NERVINE
rplll! GRAND TOILET CLUB, 70 Hnnter Street, Sydney
x (opposite Tram Wailing Room). W. MOBRIS (fate of
Truefltt’s, London) To the Gentlemen of Sydney: In
catering for your patronage, I desire to direct your atten-
tion to the elegance and comfort of my Hairdressing
Saloons, and respectfully solicit a visit, feeling assured I
shall give you every satisfaction.
GS-. 3E3". SIMCITIKC & SOW,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—SOLE AGENTS FOR—
HENRY HEATH, 005, 607, 609 Oxford Street, LONDON
\\\
\
HATS
OF EVERY KIND. /
Ladies'Club Straw Ilati fo» Yachting, Boa tinman Tennis.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
Beecliam’s Pills
C.CH4
&
0
patent
PILLS
&
....
c o
:
fiifTcrer i
Fills, and
Arc universally admitted
to be Worth a Guinea
a Fox for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushing's of
boat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
’•-torbed
on the skin, distort
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
~ . ... in twenty minutes. E ery
s earnestly invited t Q try one box of these
they will be amnow’edged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For feiriales of all ages these Pills are invaluable,
as a few doses of them carry olf all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECIIAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they net like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by membe-s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Boecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Breciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Bctc iani, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 50 pills), and at
2s. l)d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
w
m
&
k,
Vfnpv
gdf
g
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young
mid old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
The< Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, com-
pletely and lastingly, the following complaints :
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Jiheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Complaint,
,Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases of the
Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weakness, Diabetes,
Sciatica, Atrophy, Oout, Indigestion, Asthma, Piles,
Epilepsy Spermatorrheea, Specks before the Eyes,
Excessive Heart Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An liifailiug Cure l or Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, anil contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to ba
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
tonus, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, frkb,
in which these Belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatise also contains facsimile of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals qf these testimonials produced on application.
iW~ Tlie prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .. , Caui. Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Couktnkt.
Address all communicatmna lo the .
Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt Co.,
Box 047, G.r.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember The K.O. Chain Belt cures irithout medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
tiio oii Iy' cost.
G O L D E N SHANTY.
Price One Shilling.
Round in handsome Cloth Binding, 2s. Cd., post paid.
SOLD BY ALL AGENTS.
A
Business Announcements
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
/"aid-up Capital .. .. £900,€00
Reserve Liability ... 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Panic has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
8 iP" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes m grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New OxKOIin-ET., London. l-sV" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
The best Australian books to send to
friends abroad are The Bulletin's
11 mm of mm uv ■
Illustrated by Livingston Hopkins and
Phil. May—post-free to any Australian
address for Is. 3d. in stamps : and
“ A Golden Shanty,”
Tales and sketches in prose and verse
from The Bulletin —post-free to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Queensland purchasers supplied by J.
H. Thompson, bookseller, George-street,
Brisbane. How in the press and will
shortly be published,
“ Talcs of lie Australian Convict System,"
From The Bulletin, by “ Price Waning.”
mm
mm
WI//A
Ok
&
o
c
CPf
tern
mmm
85
KSkT
r PIIIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 an( | SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EVES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
JErL. Jk.. ROSE,
Dispersing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1S5S. By Post Ss. Cd.
t3f~ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTIIAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
HUGH'S
(\\{
THE BEST
IN THE WORLD
V.:
‘M
flUCH
INC
*/.
vy
PO
UFACTUfltO nr A s
James OtANNokJh**”&4?vsi
sfSctd l-y alt- -Will I? SStreAffiero
Business Announcements.
A. BOWMAN’S
LONDON MADE
Porpoise Hide Boots
Are Reduced from 30s. to 21s.
219 HIT ST., SYDNEY, Near Tattersall’s.
Porpoise Hide Weax-3 Twice as Long
as any other Leather.
They _ are noted all over London,
Birmingham and Liverpool.
Xiond-oii
AND
Fresh. Goods Every Fortnight.
LOOK for the LOW-MAN on the WINDOW.
©OUT & RHEUMATIC
THE GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY EOI
Gout, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, lumbago, & leuralgia,
The acute pain is quickly relieved and cured i.i a
few days by this celebrated Medicine.
Those Pills, which are perfectly harmless, require
no restraint of diet during their use, and are certain
to prevent the disease attacking any vital part.
Manufactured in England by Trout <fc Co.. 229,
Strand, London, and sold at Is. lid. and 2b. 9d,
per box, or obtainable through any Chemist or Store
throughout the Australian Colonics,
WILLIAM C Alt GILL,
Photographic Stock Importer,
26 iMZ-A-liIIKIIBT STEEET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
a
-■mim
Wanted to send for particulars of (Exr.MPH)
Tansy B B ills, winch are hotter’than Steel or
Pennyroyal. Cures obstructions from whatever
cause'. Never fails. No pills or powders like
them. Particulars free. [Mention this paper.
\V. Cavendish. P.O. Box 161, Melbourne.
E
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
C
Ask for
o^^
dfg
G«° SS
■$o\AA 5^'
d
_ AQCNTS!
DeLtssafe Phillips,
Bir.-ack St.,, Sydney.
ROYAL HOTEL,
BOURKE, N.S.W.
S. C. DAVIS ... PROPRIETOR
<
M.
ea
mb
>• ■'!
40,000 in Ise. Record, 170 words per inimito.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all tbo leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week ns fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 flrst-clsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY: J. K. Cunningham, 84 Kii/.ahcth-st ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins street: BRISBANE : Webster & Co. ; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Lyon & Blair.
.A.. 33. STEWAET,
- TIIK ONI.Y (,»l l-.KySI.ANI) Spouts Dki-ot
29 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Importer of Football, Cricket, Lawn Tennis Goods,
and all Athletic Requisites.
Lawn Tennis Racquets Made; Repaired and Re-strung on
the Shortest Notice.
TOBACCO, CIGARS and CIGARETTES.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
—BY—
“BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
PRICE ... ONE SHILLING


To BTTXj2LiEI , I2?T ” Beadoxa
Headers of The Bulletin, wherever situated, will greatly oblige by informing the Managing Director of any locality
where they may be unable to procure the paper, and naming any reliable person who would probably undertake its sale.
HITBSOSf BE9B,
(LIMITED),
Clyde, KT.S-"W.
—Manufacturers of—
ACSICULTUEAL IMPLEMENTS,
WINDMILLS and complete IRRIGATION PLANTS.
The ‘Cljds’ Six-serew tfc Eight-furrow Ploughs,
Wilh Patent Malleable, Reversible Shares,
With or without Governor Stcerage.cthe most rapid
Cultivators yet Known.
The ‘ C jd« * Single, Double aiitl Treble-furrow
Ploughs
Hold FIRST PLACE in the Market.
The ‘Clyde’ Digging Ploughs,
With Patent, Reversible Shares, without a rival in the
field.
flic ‘Clyde’ A 1 Way Press (\eu)
CHEAPEST, STONGEST aud REST FARMER S PRESS-
Worse-Gears. Chaffentfcrs,
And every kind of Farm Implement of best Design.
tsr Ask for HUDSON S Plough Shares.
Hudson Brothers, Ltd.,
ENGINEERS, IRONFOU N D E R S,
TIMBER MERCHANTS, JOINERS,
CLYDE WORKS, GRANVILLE,
nsr.s. w.
Illustrated Catalogues Free, by post.
3ST O D U t 3T.
BOLLINGER’S CHAMPAGNE
IDZEWST —EXTEA QUALITY.
.^wc!
SOLE AGENTS von NEW SOUTH WALES—
CHARLES BATH & CO.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
WALLACES
(Xj 1 ited.)
Kpcrra
VraWl
€ft
it I
'£
mjSSm
&
•Ss
ART FURNISHERS,
York Street, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
Now Supply the Genera! Public as well as the Trade. Illustrated Catalogues and Price Lists on Application.
m i
wm
fgd
m
ATKINSON'S .
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
A-Ticx^rsoisr’S
QUININE HAIR LOTION,
Unsurpassed for promoting the growth
and improving the appearance of the
hair, guaranteed perfectly harmless.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIIDA WATER,
Au exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
x Trade Mark—“ White Rose” oh “Golden j
Lyre,” with Address in full.
The Marvel of the Age!
»
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cu res ‘ 1 Barcoo Rot ’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Fanners
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale;
Australian Drug Co.
Huntington Mill
&
Knowles' I’nmns.
KE & LACY CO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &o.
&o.
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
3ST.S.W.
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kook Breakers.
WontlngliOMSC CnghM‘B.
s
HIGHLY NLITRITJVfT
A
MAY.Bt OBTAINETON LABELLED.TINS OH PACKETS THROUGHOUT THE COLONY.
11 The Bulletin’s ”
“HISTORY of BOTANY BAY.
By ARTHUR GAYLL,
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
DELISSA
i AHO
PHILLIPS
s>
%
v/.
N S
O
H
■
HARRINGTON & CO,,
332 Kent Street (near King Street) Sydaoy,
Largest Importers ami Manufacturer,# in Au-Tralasia of
PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIALS
for Professionals and Amateurs. Send for Catalogue.
Second-hand Cameras, Lenses, etc.. Bought and Sold.
Picture Frames Made to Order. Wholesale and Retail.
TH<E BULLETIN’S '*
Second Edition oj» tub
“ History of Botany Bay ”
Will Do SHORTLY ISSUED.
