

CADBURY'S COCOA
AITKEN'S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SIfDNET.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. Gr. WATKINS Ss CO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BTJILDEES’ & GEITEBAL 180 IST IMI O 2sT Gh ZB IR- IT.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
f
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed FURIi COCOA and EXTRACT of
READ BROS.
SotHEgS-^
o
&
3
O
%
N
hi
&
o
o
fc
S&) Al£
Dog’s Head
ALE & STOUT.
JULES REWARD & CO.'
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
"“Vi V
o*
tHJs
■
R?
Sx*2
r:S——, 6
inp.
in
Itiil
'-: x.
U-*' lituuifiiitss
The Oxford Hotel, 3SlAM.g S-fcaree-fc, &sr&.*XG'ST~
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed .arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezes®
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
“ -A- C3rolca.eKX Slia.ii.ty
and the
SECOND EDITION
OF —
“The History of Botany Bay”
can now be obtained at
J. H. THOMPSON and CO..
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
df
J.
Sole
Agents in. New South. Wales for Mlessrs. and |lßhuttleworth.
d
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel-boiler and water-heater.
CLAY T01M a SHUT.! LEVI MIH USCCOt'.
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
sifteS:M€5
1
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE!.
Specially built to suit the requirements of NiSiW..
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLO..
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches,
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. tef Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural "implement.s and Harvesting Machinery on application
J. & C. Howard, 2SOi Pitt Street, > Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 12—No. 650,]
[Saturday, September 10, 1892.


NO
c vs
sshdx
World will Retain
ture or give Belief
Pierce's Magnetic
Truss. This Celebrated
adically cured thous-
Iron Hoops or Steel
ounnes ±u«a»u uu w«.uwitheaseand comfort
Aight and Day. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mail.
If \*u want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
AdVess MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO-SanFranc.co Cal,
Or Washington If. Soul & Co., 160 Pit* SC.
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
In the
Rup-
like !>•
Elastic
Truss has
ands of
cases
R?^o®TlOljUf|
S.'AW
SOLO
* EVERYWHERE
3/6
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
The English method re-
duces weight permanently
by easy, safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet
_ _ _ and nauseous drugs un-
necessary. PKATT’S SYSTEM is universally adopted by
professional men, actors, pugilists, jockeys and others, who
MUST RIGIDLY KEEP DOWN OBESITY
“Corpulency and How to Cure it? »u instructive
pamphlet showing “How to Act,” sent in sealed envelope for
lour stamps. Address—Mr. F, ALLAN, BOURKE & WILLS
CHAMBERS, MELBOURNE, Vic. Avoid base imitations.
FRATT'S is the only sure and practical treatment, and must
produce satisfactory results. Warranted Quite Harmless.
f
m
S
WHY WILL YOU SUFFER from
NERVOUS WASTING and
DEBILITATING DISEASES which
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN-
HOOD ? You may now cure yourselves
without CONSULTING a DOCTOR.
Send Six Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing the
French method of QUICK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-CURE.
AddresB: Parisian Agency Co., Box 766, Sydney.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS Am INVALIDS
“ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD.
\ye have examined,”— H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.IJ)., F.Q.S., »&c., Public Analysts,
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL POOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON
and PHILLIPS.
SOI9 Agents, Barrack Street. Sydney.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of '
t> s record's
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
«nd’unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ri cord's absence, of,Life restores manhood to the most
thatfered and debilitated constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame t and enables man to
fu/fi Ihis 7n ost sa ct rd obiig a tio ns .
I," cases of 125., or four quantifies in one for 36 f. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on 1 eceipt of stamped addressed envelope
gents for Australasia—Perry Sr Co , 7j (let trade Sheet
*itztoy. AfeP'ou) tte.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W, H. Soul Pltt-st., Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly,- without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs;
Sold in' Paris by
J, DF* 33 3FI. UFt ES*
Successor to Broil) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Uni Cmr MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
HEMiEDIE S,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria. Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEFs
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON'S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON'S CELEBRATED
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
Of all Dealers and of the Manufacturers—
J. «£ E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose" on “Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
STEELE’S GALVANIC
GENT’S BE*-*
ELECTRIC BELTS.
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J, J. STEELE. Yet he feels if; a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether,
a complete cure be desired in l<j>st vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, Sciatica, neuralgia,
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, &c. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of £2—
registered letter, post-order, dr,', cheque. When ordering
Belt send waist measure above the hips.
Druggist. H. P. SAB I EL, Chemist,
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 78 Hunter Street,
Sydney!
• • « ' » • •
PRIVATE HOME FOR LADIES.-Mrs. LAVENDER,
A Professional Nurse ahd Accoucheuse,
Receives Patients from thfe Country under Surgical or
Medical Treatment. (Established in Botany-street Ten
Years.) Eor terms, apply “ Windermere,” 132 Botany-
street Moore Park, Sydney.
For Consumption use
Sons
d
os^
fd
,F
f
P
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory:
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
=
Mitt’s “IW Mil” Ettaljite Hi,
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
■
If vou wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLLENZA,
always “keep a bottle of Bosistp’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil by you and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
It is a Germ KllUor.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser a few drops mixed
with water —-and steam the apartment. INHALE THE SIEAM if there be
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles.
(..)
Dr. BRENDON CURGENYEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil:
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.”
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “J. Bosisto, Richmond, are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for
BOSISTO’S FA.RROT BHA.W33.
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Th© Brighton of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent 'Table, Large well ventilated Dining',.
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs, KULMIKTSTBR ... Proprietress.
f
d
Dr. Iff. PERRY, M.R.C.S. (by Exam. 1866), L.S.A.,
Late House Surgeon Great Northern Hospital, London ; Legally Qualified and Registered by
the Medical Board of N.S.W.
Specialist fon the Treatment of Nervous and Kindred Complaints 1 .
Dr. Perry’s, extensive hospital and private practice in these diseases enables him to tell his patient's*
plainly whether the disease is curable or not, and consequently he is willing (provided the patient follows*
his instructions) to GUARANTEE A PERMANENT CURE IN EVERY CASE HE UNDER-
TAKES. persons suffering from Chronic Diseases hitherto deemed incurable are invited to consult
Dr. His Scientific Electrical Appliances and Skilful Treatment has enableddiim to Cute many'
Chronic Complaints winch, have been pronounced Incurable.
A Genuine Electric Belt for £l.
VARICOCELE.— Dr. Perry’s method of! treating this distressing complaint has been ihost silc ;
ccssful, and those who haye tried other practitioners without success, would do well to consult him
In the large majority of cases no operation is necessary.
Tumours and OiaDetea specially treated.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
At the request ofnwany, of his friends, Dr. Perry has decided to treat cases of Alcoholism. Dri-,
Perry cures this disease by using the most scientific and successful methods, including the Chloride of
Gold. Dr. Perry made arrangements to accommodate patients at his Consulting Rooms, No. 151*
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, so that they can be under his personal supervision. Patients, however, can*
“also be treated afi their ovyn homes. .
Dr. Perry invitesthe fullest investigation into his qualifications, and would advise persons before'
consulting any advertising practitioner to satisfy themselves he is a legally qualified medical man.
Send for Dr. Perry’s Medical Work an Nervous Complaints—FßSßr
ADDRESS Dr. DVT., PERRY, TtaC.H.O.S.,
ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY; N.S.W.
Mention this. Paper when Writing,.
Consultation, Hours From liO,,a r m. to, 4, pan. DAILY, and from 7to 9 p.m. on TUESDAY*
and SATURDAY EVENINGS.
mm U AM
VIIIIIIVV
498 & 500 GEORGE STREET. I
r*A PC MARK
m
Austral Clothiers.
Gent,’s Cape Operqoata—2s/- t0.47/6. ,
Gent (; ’s, Gl l csterfie 1 c|,O percoats—15/(5 t0.30/-.
Gent./s,. “Austral” Business Suits.—27/6,
to 50/-.
Gent.’s D. -T, Black. Parramatta Cape Water-
proo^Coat—3Q/- to 55/- (sewn seams, and
t/uaraptped).
GUR CELEBRATED
11.R.H WHITE SHIRTS'
(made by Welch, Margetson & Co.)
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.'
2.-./0, 33/-, 37'0, 42/-, 45/-,
the Half Dozen.
Gent.’s Silk Umbrellas 8/6 to 45/-.’
MERCERS. HATTERS, and JUVENILE CLOTHIERS.
SPOONS & FORKS
Zzispection Invited.
TELEPHONE
4 " 4 RECEIVE WEEKLY
PROM THEIR SHEFFIELD M AKTXJF ACTORY
" ALL THE CHOICEST DESIGNS IN
ELECTRO-PLATE and CUTLERY GOODS.
m. A. MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION, SUITABLE FOR
SPORTS, PRESENTATIONS, SHIP, CLUB, HOTEL and FAMILY USE,,
ALWAYS ON VIEW AT THEIR SHOW-ROOMS:
SPOONS & FORKS
EMPIRE CHAMBERS— 93 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at London, Edinburgh and Melbourne.


Medical*
fd
TTTi/n
a yßarsam
Speed, Remedy
influenza, coughs,
ffILDS, HOARSENESS. An.
.» THE hubserv it is invaluable
|N T dlately it is taken Coughing
Im T Restlessness is gone, and
leases- alac n ensues.
Ceases- sleep ensues,
Refreshing » selleek, Co. Per*
pottles I 1 „ii Chemists at Is. ljd. and2s. 9d.
, gold by » u Hayman * Co., London, England,
prepared only by a. g. Hoffnuno & Co„
9 aleAgent f .-K SGCo .,T jtd ., Sydney. _
f
Sook of KT a.t-u.r e.
Book of Nature.
„««• nr NATURE and Illustrated Manage
BOOK OF N * and explicit explanation of the
GUI nd’uses of the organs of life and generation in
slrUctU H woman intended especially for the married,
man and woman, n m and who conscientiously
or those in- ~® j. inform themselves upon the intent
and honestly desire to a „d duties, to which is
«|* f A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
a ' Wed A of the generative organs, whether resulting from
,01 ipe .1L /xf.hpr vfl.lnn.ble and hiffhly
-- 1- Tabus" ’ much Other valuable and highly
infeehon abuse,’ ti on illustrated with more than fifty
imp ° r vhws ' fully* depicting the mysterious process of
ongravnifes, h 0 I time of conception to the period of
v No such complete panorama of the mysteries
production has ever before been given to the
°ndd bv P D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D price 8/6. post
r The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
4/ "' onalilinw anyone to become an expert boxer and
Thiele nrice 1/- J Plain Home Talk about the Human
« th iem new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
System, n « ec F it of philosophy or Private Companion
Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant's
.Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/0,
Sl/ Ka Monk, 1/C, post 1/9 Mamage as it was
S is and as it should b°, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
no l/‘i Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6 How
Mesmerise Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertam-
&c price 1/6. Dancing without a master-Ball-
S 6uide aruf Self-instructoiCby Prof. Peltzer 1/8.
" Every Man his own Sohoolmast .r, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
11 The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street. SYDNEY.
ELASTIC STOCKINGS.
Kneecaps, Anklets, Rubber Bandages, Chest Ex-
panders for Contracted Shoulders.
Ladies’ Abdominal, Electric and Galvanic
Belts.
Enemas, Syringes, Uterine Supports, and Preven-
tive Pessaries. Ear Trumpets and Conversation
Tubes.
Trusses for Rupture.
The most difficult ruptures effectually treated.
Artificial Legs, Arms and Hands,
with all the latest improvements, made specially
to order—-fit and durability guaranteed.
GUY ATT & CO., 495 GEORGE-ST., Sydney.
N.B.—An experienced lady in attendance.
Established 1853.
Miscellaneous.
d
H*
$
fd
mm
■em
9.
m*.
agghPßawww
pfr'
■ C%.3'«
•-SA.J
»*'ii at ?.V.:
Best ©n Earth
Sole Agents
Allt’s Brewing Sc Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
Grand Ho^
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking*
Treasury Gardens.
1
ran
iff#
SStiaimM
iIELBOCRNB.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
cludino a Rii e t sid i en i !e . ® s - P er week. Single Bed, in-
dents "foi- i a^fas J’> os - ’> Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange*
A - F - BEKER > Mana « ep - The
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PRICE 19
In
» Mi.,
>
cro.
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
Dr. Kelly’s refutation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, to be appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows: —That the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate with his fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
of his past folly.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
Am 1 subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despairof Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Peeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Feeling During the Day, Pains in the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Pits,
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small pamphlet but a
LARGE BOOKCONTAININGMANYPAGESopPRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELEOTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY. This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
for £1 Is. Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, &c., &c., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
Dr, W. H. Kelly, who is a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
Monday .
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday ~
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m,
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
~ 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
address—;o]R. w. H . KELLY,
112 PHILLIP STEEET, SYDNEY.
N.8.-DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
w w-
-4^
a
9
S*e4
c~c
*s’ Z 2
•&
U&J
&
:
m
j&
J&
S\k
-or
r
lilc
S°
o*?
3
sSw>
wwac
a
•352
2®
«fl
SSt^ 5
2^
B?
*:r :**■•
Sse
1
Wfc.
ii
&V
)-r
tSw wl^
m
*s*i rt
the light-running
m
Latest and most important improvements 1
AUTOMATIC TENSION.
ENLARGED BOBBIN.
AUTOMATIC BOBBIN WINDER.
DOUBLE FEED. EXTENSION TABLE,
HIGH ARM. SELF-SETTING NEEDLE.
Simply Perfect! Perfectly Simple!
Before buying any other send for Circular.
Ask y our Storekeeper to get you one
from
J. I. Johnston & Co.
54 Bourke St-, Melbourne.
746 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
167 Queen St., Brisbane.
“ TALES or the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE : Is. ; Per Post, Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. RICHAHDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future bo pleased to welcome hi»
friends and patients, during his consulting hour*,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ll' o
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears hia name, re*
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He haa devoted a Ufa*
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
O.OTU.BOUND
LOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private oi
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tenC ONß POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
i detailing every experienced symptom. He will
i on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
i and courteously, a candid and straightforward
: ononion of your case. * If you do not think you
1 understand the case, send for his famous medical
work the price of which is but sixpence : enclosed
in the volume will be found a Ist of carefully-pre-
yed questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Re sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION THEE.


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
SS PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed <£l,ooo,o^
LABG-B ZBCONTTJSZES
AND
TJI^IDOTJBTEn
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
4
mlB'A DE MAQ&K
Gruizmess’ Extra, Stout
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
jlUNAGjiR FOR Australia— TC*. J. Mac’Willia,in, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYFNEY
Pale
Bass’
AJLe
FOSTER'S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS JN STOCK:
Stea ixi £!ugines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOOPWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
fW Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
WILLIAMSO
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lightin
OF THE
BOROUGH OF FtEOFER NT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &o.
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
THE
‘ Plum 5
p i
THE
6 Plum 5
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has over been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is exlr a >
Sole
Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEW, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Pez B <a.x*JLa.'UL CSo.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GSOTiaR: street, s^DJxrisir.
.-am* . smf sarefe _ .
Cleavepb
Javenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and ia of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
'.v
BAKER and ROUSE,
MANUFACTURERS and MERCHANTS in PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next a.j.s. Ba , |k)
—AND AT—
-256 COLLINS STREET ... ... „. MELBOURNE,
69 BUNDLE STREET ... ... .„ ADELAIDE,
46 QUEEN STREET ... ... ... BRISBANE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
Wild Australia! Wild Queensland!
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland’ 1
—BY—
.A.. IS/L 3E! SS T O 3XT .
ILLUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practice what STURT, the explorer, called the “Terrible Rite'
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia,
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia —Hunting, Fighting
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “Boorool” (Bora) ceremonies. ’
The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
Will Appear in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
XKT OCTOBER.
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OE THE WORLD!
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MRSTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take sped,
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS', and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND'S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAYWELL & CO.
fO»
MARVEL
TO BAG CO
X S r
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons 7 Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in tlie Building.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER. OFFICES ox the PREMISES.
mi
4 1»
> sm
mm w
Wm
lip !p®|i®SK
> ssL' $; v«t if S
Kl^lST-
mP
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and rnos tQ
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort anci at e
visitors. *3T Tariff, 10s. Gd. per day. Special Rates for Families,
AARONS’ KXCHANGR HOT ML COMPANY - - Proprietors.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the establishing


The Bulletin
Vol 12 —Ko. C 56
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1892.
Price, 6d.
A SUSPECTED CASE OF BRITISH COLLAR—Y.
THE RETURN OF SIR G. REPUBLICAN DIBBS, K.C.M.G., D.C. (“Damn Chicago.")


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for tiiD Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0 126
Quarterly... ... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you. may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not tvish
to interfere.
• Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications tvill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But tee desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London ,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
ou Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. I Vales in future will he £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. Thei'e will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
w
j/n yo //- TZf/y*
44 4.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1892.
. . ,
A Remedy for Larrikinism.
One of the greatest wants, if not the greatest
want, in Australian criminal law is a remedy
for that comprehensive evil commonly defined
as larrikinism. The public sin which is thus
described embraces, in a general way, nearly
everything that is not robbery or murder. It
includes idleness, destruction of property, acts
of violence, obstructing the highway, bad lan-
guage, the assumption of an aggressively dis-
respectful attitude, noise, dirt, profanity,
ignorance, an unshaven aspect, a retreating
forehead, a fishy eye, a braided coat, a soft
black hat, bell-bottomed trousers, high-heeled
boots, and a general and promiscuous cussed-
ness of demeanour. Its cause is not positively
known, but it has been set down by various
authorities to meat—which opinion was first
promulgated by a philosopher by the name of
Bumble— to short hours, high wages, manhood
suffrage, original sin, the displeasure of the
Almighty— said to have been aroused by Sun-
day trading—trades-unionism, and the fact that
the lower classes are not sufficiently
“ kept down. And, as for its remedy, nothing
has yet been discovered which meets the case—
or which meets any other case but there
appears to be a general feeling in that unspeci-
which is vaguely described as
influential quarters that lavish and vigorous
n°gg m g 13 ,, i “ )0U ,t' the only thing which is ealeu-
lated to fill the bill. J herefore, Minister
O Connor, of New South Wales, has embodied
tins view of the case in a measure which will
be submitted to 1 arhament, and which
will doubtless pass by acclamation.
* * #
Under the proposed system, the larrikin who
is caught will be Hogged—if he chances to run
against a magistrate who feels that way inclined
—and the larrikin who is not caught will go on
just as before. On a very narrow estimate the
latter represents 95 per cent, of the obnoxious
class to which he belongs, and allowing that
half of those who aie captured receive corporal
punishment and imprisonment ou the new
bread-and-water regime, it follows that two-
and-a-half per cent, will be “deterred’—
provided Minister O’Connor’s device proves an
effectual deterrent, and all the rest will remain
as they are. On the other hand, nothing
approaching half of those who are captured will
be either flogged or imprisoned. There are
abundant provisions in the existing law for the
infliction of long terms of confinement for
larrikinism, but all the same, when eight bell-
bottomed rowdies have jumped on the head of
some inoffensive citizen, the Bench merely fines
them 405., or possibly—if it is in a particularly
vindictive mood-—£s, and lets them go. The
Anglo-Saxon magistrate’s brutal disregard for
human suffering as distinguished from his slavish
reverence for property are the only visible
causes of this state of things ; and, therefore,
it is impossible up to date to say whether im-
prisonment is or is not a remedy for larrikinism
- —the vast majority of magistrates have hardly
even begun to try the experiment. If the
average ‘ ‘ beak ” will not exercise the powers
he already possesses, it is of little use arming him
with further ones ; even if he were authorised
to crucify the larrikin, or boil him in oil, he
would probably go on in ins accustomed groove,
and fine him 40s. just as heretofore. When we
consider that one of the greatest difficulties, so
far, has been to get the somnolent P.M. in
motion, it occurs to us that Mr. R. E. O’Con-
nor’s measure begins at the wrong end of the
problem. It is the magistrate who ought to be
flogged in the first place, in order to arouse him
to a sense of his responsibilities ; and after that
the whole Commission of the Peace might be
whaled with considerable advantage. The
question of flogging District Court Judges can-
not be entered upon at present, owing to want
of space.
• * *
Therefore, the position in the immediate
future will probably be as follows ; Owing to
the hideous inadequacy of the police force,
about 5 per cent, of the larrikins who commit
actual crimes in the towns of New South Wales
will be captured, and for almost every capture
a policeman will place his life in imminent
danger. Perhaps one-half of these will be
discharged for want of evidence, the witnesses
being terrorised by the “push,” and the mere
handful of police being unable to offer them
any solid protection. Of the remaining two-
and-a-half per cent., nine-tenths will happen to
encounter the old style of magistrate and be
fined £2 in the good old way ; and most of the
balance will be sent to gaol for short terms ;
and the final residuum—about one in 1000 —
will fall foul of some P.M. with an inflamed
liver and a swollen toe, and receive a great and
furious flogging, which may possibly reclaim
him, or which may make him more villainous
than he was before, but which certainly will
produce no effect whatever upon the other 999.
The chances of punishment will be too remote
to effect any striking change. Every larrikin
will, of course, have a possibility of being
flogged, just as every individual who uses a
lamp lias a chance of dying an agonizing death
from blazing kerosene, but as the use of
kerosene lamps continues despite this risk so
will larrikinism continue. Every man regards
all men as mortal save himself, and when no
man learns to look forward to death in a world
where death is absolutely certain, so no larrikin
will look forward to castigation where castiga-
tion is exceedingly uncertain.
« # *
Larrikinism, undoubtedly, needs to be sup-
pressed with an iron hand, and the first step
towards its suppression is to catch the offen-
der. This view, apparently, has not yet struck
Minister O’Connor. It is impracticable to lay
poison for larrikins, or to trap them, so they
must be run down by manual labour in the old
fashion. And the only way to afford any
reasonable certainty that they will be captured
is to quadruple the police force at the very
lowest estimate, or, as a much more adequate
precaution, to multiply it by eight. At present,
in some of the by-ways of Sydney, the “push”
often musters fifty strong, and the Government
which leaves a solitary constable or a pair of
constables to cope witli such a gathering is an
idiot in the first place, and the accomplice of a
manslaughter in the second. There is no earthly
reason why the police-force should not be made
eight or even ten times as strong as it now is.
A force of such dimensions could be trained to
perform military service if necessary, somewhat
after the manner of the French gendarmerie,
and could supply the place of the mock “stand-
ing army ” of New South Wales with equal
efficiency and without increased expense. And
it would have many advantages which that
alleged army does not possess. It would be a
portion of the nation instead of a military clan
standing apart; it would save the country the
needless infliction of many imported generals
and colonels ; it would not foster the accursed
spirit of militarism which grows around a
standing army and ultimately leads it to become
the master instead of the servant of the nation;
and it would do immense service to the country
whereas the “army” does absolutely none in
time of peace, and whether it would or would
not do any in time of war is a mere matter of
conjecture.
• * *
With such a force there is at least a reason-
able chance that every outbreak of larrikinism
would be promptly suppressed and the offenders
captured. The next essential is to provide
some reasonable security that they will be
dealt with when captured. A simple and
effective way to arrive at this result would be
to enact that every individual convicted a
second time of any crime of violence should be
imprisoned without any option whatever. It is
only necessary to pass such an enactment in
cases of violence; the criminal who offends
against property never gets any option. Soli-
tary confinement on a bread-and-water diet
with a plank bed by way of luxury would
be a very efficient deterrent, always provided
the police - force were sufficiently strong
and the law sufficiently reliable to make it a
matter of almost absolute certainty that the
offender would arrive at his solitary cell and his
plank bed every time. Also, it the sentence
increased in length according to a certain fixed
ratio with each succeeding offence the horrors
of hunger and loneliness would presently render
this variety of crime practically extinct. Years
ago, in Southern California, an attempt was
made to cope with an epidemic of petty crime
by short terms of solitary confinement with
one meal of bread-and-water per diem, and the
result obtained was far greater than has been
achieved in other States by 30 years of lynch -
law and semi-judicial murder. And the system,
however severe, lacks the brutalising element
of the lash ; it does not necessitate the employ-
ment of a loathsome outcast to carry out the
sentence of the law ; and it does not involve
any groping among the blood-rusted instru-
ments of the mediaeval torture chambers—the
thumb-screw and the rack, the strange, weird
implements for crushing heads, and tearing out
tongues by the roots, the stoves on which the
top half of a man used to be kept alive for a few
thrilling minutes after the other end of him had
been hacked away, and the other grimy horrors
oLtlie old, dead, horrible past.
• « •
To sum up the situation once more, Minister
O’Connor’s scheme practically amounts to this
—an act of degrading brutality will be inflicted
on about one offender in every thousand, and the
other 999 will continue to terrorise the cities as
heretofore. Mr. O’Connor does not propose to
take any additional steps to prevent larrikinism,
nor to ensure the capture of the larrikin, nor to
make his conviction more certain when he is
captured, nor to make his punishment more
certain when he is convicted ; he merely pro-
poses to give him the uncertain chance of some-
thing awful occurring to him if the magistrate
happens to feel too bilious to be content with
the visual 40s. fine. If military matters were
conducted in this fashion, then instead of main-
taining an armed force and massive fortifications
as a protection against that visionary Russian
who never comes (and never will come, as he
has something much better to do), the country
would be left open and undefended—only it
would be solemnly enacted that if the Russians
did come, and the law could lay its hand upon
one of them, he would be boiled to death as a
warning and an example to all future invaders.
As the law, in such a case, would never capture
that solitary invader, the enactment would
remain a dead letter and a useless monument of
barbarity. And as the law in the present case
very seldom captures the larrikin, and as very
few magistrates will probably care to enforce
Mr. R. E. O’Connor’s great device when he is
captured, that gentleman’s boasted measure is
likely to be a useless barbarity also.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More “Want of Confidence."
The New South Wales Foreign-trade Opposi-
tion has started, almost on the first day of the
session, to waste the time of the Legislature by
an utterly selfish scramble for office and salary.
The ostensible reason of this proceeding is that
its political morality is injured by the conduct
of Premier Dibbs in taking £lOOO out of the
Treasury, without parliamentary warrant, to
pay his expenses in England, and that the
Constitution has been damaged by Sir Dibbs’
absence from the country during the sitting of
Parliament. As regards the latter contention,
it is sufficient to say that while Parkes was
Premier, he did exactly likewise, without his
party raising the slightest objection; that he
broke the Constitution into small bits by hold-
ing office while he was in a state of insolvency,
and none of bis followers raised a dust on the
subject; and that so long as Dibbs has left a
capable representative to take his place, and
the business of the country does not suffer by
his absence, the public cares not one straw for
small, useless technicalities that lead to nothing.
Also, as concerns the unauthorised appropria-
tion of £lOOO, there have been so many millions
expended without authority by successive
Foreign-trade Ministries that the amount is
hardly worth considering; and, in any case, if
the Opposition desires to save the public money
from patriotic motives, and doesn’t merely desire
to grab office so as to have a chance of profiting
by unauthorised expenditure on its own account,
the proper course to pursue is to strike the
objectionable item off the Estimates and go on
with the public business. For the province is
sick almost unto death of the perpetual neglect
of its interests while small, obscure politicians
shuffle in and out of office, and wrangle over
points of order, and present motions of want of
confidence, and dig up dead precedents from
the buried ages. What the people want is to
see the long-postponed Manhood Suffrage Bill
become law, and to secure that Local Govern-
ment Act which has been talked out for 30 years,
and to obtain one or two other urgent reforms ;
and a thousand years of maundering about
the Constitution will not compensate for their
loss. The country doesn’t really care whether
there is a Constitution or not, so long as the
public business progresses. There willbeprobably
a fortnight of washy declamation over the
want of confidence motion. Then, if the
Dibbs’ Cabinet is defeated, there will be
another fortnight or so lost while Reid and
Parkes and other public imbeciles struggle
with each other over the formation of a Cabinet;
and a week or two more will be spent over the
re-election of the new Ministers; and after that
there will be an adjournment while the new
Government formulates what it will call, by a
wild stretch of humour, its “policy.” And by
that time the session will be nearly ended, and
some three or four millions of public money
will have been expended without Parliamentary
authority—in order to mark the Parliament’s
disapproval of the previous expenditure of
£lOOO in similar fashion ; and finally the
Estimates will be rushed through in the last
days of the session, and the House will adjourn
leaving behind it nothing but a barren waste of
Hansard. This sort of thing has gone on in
New South Wales for half-a-century, and now
that the white-haired humbug has abdicated the
dreary humbug with the eye-glass starts the
same eternal game all over again. Such is
Party Government !
■*
The Bar-Nymph and the Kitchen-Syren.
Whenever Sydney Daily Telegraph gets to
perceive that it is boring the public worse than
usual it attempts to provide lively reading
by dealing a series of smashing blows to the
characters of barmaids. “ There are barmaids
who are virtuous,” preambles the journalistic
Tartuffe, and then feels safe to let it be
understood that there are not many of that
kind. The current cant about the abolition of
barmaids lias a nauseous flavour of hypocrisy.
The valiant crusaders against the employment
of girls to serve out liquors are under a clear
obligation to sho ♦ Latin that occupation they
are exposed to greater temptations, and hav«
greater opportunities of tempting, than in othl!
***** ,h rlr e
a girl entrenched behind a liquor bar is more n
danger and more dangerous than a chamber
maid in a coffee-palace, where teetotal persons
of severe aspect with shaven upper-lip are
brought into communication .with them in the im
mediate vicinity of tempting facilities for wrong-
doing. Ihe records of the courts sufficiently
prove that abstinence from strong waters is no
guarantee that other passions than the exces
sive love of liquor are quelled. The restaurant
waitress is exposed to blandishments as fre-
quent and varied as those which assail the bar-
maid. If, therefore, it be necessary in the
interests of morality to exclude, by legal enact-
ment, females from the profession of bartending
a like and equal necessity exists for closing
against them such occupations as waitresses
housemaids, chambermaids, and shop-women’
They should all be relegated to back rooms’
there to work sewing-machines and type-
writers, under the guardianship of a class of
individuals who would have to be imported
from the gorgeous and glowing East. How
vain is it to bewail the temptations which, with
the help of liquor, the private bar-girl spreads
before the feet of “Johnnies,” while passing
over in silence the demoralizing influence
exerted on the ordinary policeman by the fas-
cinations of cook-maids, aided by the seductive
allurements of mutton-pie !
Lawyer Want, apparently assuming the re-
presentation in the New South Wales Assembly
of the National Ass., has given notice of a Bill
to repeal payment of members. There is about
as much prospect of such a measure passing
through the present Assembly, as there is of an
average Q.C. refusing fees for failing to appear
simultaneously for three different ~clients in
three different courts. But it is anticipated
that the next general election will show the
influence of a reaction against Labour repre-
sentation. The next Parliament may contain a
majority of persons in easy circumstances, who
will, by voting against payment of members,
re-erect the barriers which formerly existed
to exclude mere common persons from the
Legislature. Mr. Want would then, if again
returned to the Assembly, be able to put for-
ward a preferential claim to the credit of turning
back the wheels of Time. The short-sighted
view which National Asses take of such a feat is
puzzling. They are the very animals which perpe-
tually bray about the elasticity which is the pre-
servation of the British Constitution. Yet they
are unable to see far enough beyond their ears to
perceive that the determinations of the working;
classes will and must sweep away all obstacles.
So long as provision is made for the presence of
the direct representatives of Labour in Parlia-
ment, the changes which are inevitable will be
effected in a gradual and constitutional fashion.
But if Mr. Want and his abettors succeed in
starving Labour members out of the Legislature
and replacing the entire management of affairs
in the hands of representatives of the “superior”
classes, the tide of progress will be heaped back
till it gains force to burst its way, and devasta-
tion will be the result. The Anarchist spouter
is now a harmless being. The senseless and
prejudiced swell who goes in for repression of
forces which cannot be repressed, is the real
manufacturer of future anarchy. How the
masses feel is somewhat thus : Representative
Government in which we participate may be a
bungling affair, but it is partly our own bungle
and we’ll learn to improve it. But a system of
government from which the sort of representa-
tives we wish to have are excluded, is a des-
potism, and we prefer anarchy—no Government
—to government by a hostile oligarchy.
For that gall which passeth all understanding
the following cablegram stands absolutely
alone:—
Mr. Millidge, the late general manager and liquidator
in Victoria of the Mercantile Bank of Australia, has arrived
in London. In the course of an interview Mr. Millidge
denied that the Victorian directors of the bank had made
advances to relieve the pressure of their own personal
affairs. He also stated that the agitation for a prosecution
of the Victorian directors was absurd, and would only be
a waste of money. He attributed the feeling against the
directors to the efforts of agitators. Mr. Millidge sup-
ports the balance-sheet issued by the Victorian directors
in February last, but contends that it is sometimes
unwise to erase bad advances. He regards the present
condition of the bank as sound, except so far as its con-
nection with the companies promoted by Sir M. H. Davies
is concerned.
Think of the majesty of that ! The term
“agitator” in the Capitalist’s vocabulary is
about the last possible resort to express utter
contempt and loathing. And now the share-
holders of the Mercantile Bank, who were
fooled with false balance-sheets, and whose cash
was appropriated to prop up the directors’
land-boom companies, are solemnly reprobated
and officially cursed with this anathema by the
lately sacked manager, because they want to
know why they were ruined. Their conduct
surprises Millidge. He seems to be half in-
clined to get out warrants for the arrest of the
people who ask him to explain the ghastly dis-
crepancies in his balance-sheet. Also, he thinks
it is “sometimes unwise to erase bad advances,
which means, if it means anything, that it
is wise to keep on putting them down as
good, which means, again, unless the Eng-
lish language has gone wrong, that it is
sometimes unwise not to falsify the accounts
by representing the bad debts as reliable secu-
rities It is interesting to note, further, that
Millidge demands the withdrawal of the dis-
missal which he recently received from his
billet as liquidator, and wc are now waiting to
hear whether Sir M. H. Davies isn’t going to
start an action for damages against his own
bursted bank.' Also, the prosecution of the
whole body of shareholders at the instance o
the directors ought to follow at an early date.
-——♦
Dear Bulletin, —When Spence announced
himself a candidate for the by-election for
conservative Dundas, the Victorian so-called
“ National ’ party shrieked to the electors to
rally round the “ constitutional ” standard, and
save the constituency and the country from the
firebrand, the disintegrator of society, whose
return would strike another terrible blow a
British confidence in Victoria’s prospects. I hen
it transpired that two dual-voters, who had
split the Conservative vote at last election,


’urnped into the field. A conference was held
•* n d a delegation sent to Melbourne to lay the
| a i ms of each candidate before Sir Henry
\Vrixon. Wbixon advised the withdrawal
0 { the more exclusive class man, Skene, in
favour of Thomson, who described himself as a
moderate liberal representative of the (bogus)
Rational party. Then the great patriotism
of the large-minded Conservative came to the
front in its true colours. Disgusted at the
selection of a moderate man, though he is a
dual voter and a squatter, about one-fourth of
the Skene party refused to assist in his
election. A number declined to vote, while the
more extreme actually worked for and voted for
;SrESCE in order to gratify their personal spleen
'against Thomson and his party. The sincerity
mf the declamation against the Labour candi-
date and of the horror professed at the possi-
bility of his return may be nicely gauged by
aids result. Spence was beaten by 38 votes,
Through the temporary absence from the electo-
rate of a number of shearers. —Yours, Mopoke,
Hamilton, Vic.
As an example of how the Foreign-trade press
garbles its facts and trusts to its memory for its
fiction, the following extract from Sydney
Daiey Telegraph’s recent article on “Protec-
tion and Agriculture ” is worth reading :
In one of the clauses of the Governor’s speech at the
.Mpeninff of Parliament lion, members were congratulated
rapon “a marked expansion in the area of land placed
minder cultivation, amounting to nearly 25 per cent., in
the nine months which have elapsed since the alteration
in the fiscal system of the country.” In the face of the
fact that the area under wheat increased 33 per cent, from
188 S t® 1890 under freetrade it is ridiculous to claim that
the 25 per cent, increase from 1891 to 1892 under protec-
tion is due ta the latter policy. That there has been an
increase in, tine .quantity of land under cultivation during
the pa*st year is happily the case, but this increase is by
no means due to the change of tariff.
The D.T. evidently considers that because the
wheat-area of the province increased for one
year under Freetrade, and then fell with a dull
delusive thud the next year, that policy is
fully vindicated. That paper is thankful
for mercies that can only he discovered
with a microscope. The wheat-growing in-
dustry took a jump in 1890 owing to the
reduced railway rates which led the farmer
■to imagine that his business was at last
; about to become profitable. This hope was not
irealised, and in 1891 the business collapsed and
■.went right back to where it was in 1881. In
]lB9l the country was nearly twice as far from
rsupplying its own requirements as it was in
11862 ; in all that 29 years it kept steadily
crawling backward, and the deficiency grew
larger and larger. But the Telegraph seems
actually pleased with this sort of thing. It is
truly wonderful how very little it takes to
please a Foreign-trade publication in these hard
times.
.
The Government is bound to take peremptory
action with the New South Wales Railway
Commissioners in respect of the matter com-
plained of by Mr. Hoyle, M.P. Mr. Hoyle
was deprived of his position in the railway
service on the ground that his participation in
meetings at which politics were discussed was
incompatible with his retention. et at the
meeting of the Railway and Tramway Associa-
tion, which was presided over by the Secretary
to the Commissioners, another was
permitted to indulge in violent invective against
Mr. Hoyle for a political action which is certain
to be endorsed by the Legislative Assembly.
This is the second big blunder which the Com-
missioners have been led into by Mr. Eddy’s
horror of the independent spirit of Australian
common men. The first was the violent per-
sonal insult offered to Mr. Hoyle before the
Baldwin Engines Commission. Hoyle is scoring
every time. He is not a big man, but he may
be big enough for Eddy, who seems doomed to
break his neck over him. This would be a pity,
for the Chief Commissioner, so far, has stood
investigation particularly well. His ability and
his integrity seem to shine out all the brighter
for the scouring process. What he has to look
after is his British arrogance and his con-
founded temper.
The New South Wales Parliamentary situation
is a particularly tangled one. Eyeglass Reid,
apparently, did not intend to move a vote of
■censure, so the “address in reply ” was allowed
to pass practically unchallenged which,
according to custom, amounted to a vote of
confidence in the Government. Then—the
House having declared that it had confidence in
the Government— Parkes proposed to move
that it hadn’t confidence. If his motion was
successful he would thereby jump Reid’s billet
*—brush him away as a man brushes a fly off his
nose—and that harried victim therefore under-
took to give notice of a similar vote himself,
Said vote to be moved in about a fortnight.
According to precedent the House should
do no business till the vote of censure
is disposed of, which would mean a
fortnight wasted in waiting till Reid is suffi-
ciently rested to formally bring forward his
resolution. If the Government doesn’t waste
that fortnight —and there is no precedent
for adjourning to wait for a motion of censure —
but goes ahead with the country’s business, that
means that it refuses to regard Reid’s motion
as a vital question, in which case, supposing it
were defeated, it would simply have to go on as
before, and take no notice of the defeat. Reid
desires to postpone his motion because, having
once allowed the address-in-reply to pass un-
challenged and thereby declined to attack the
Ministers present, his only rational excuse is
that he wants to assail Dibbs person-
ally, therefore he must wait till Dibbs
turns up; and he drifted into this position
because Pabkes lay low till Reid had assumed
an amicable attitude, and then sprung his mine
Upon him. This is one of the pleasant little
Ways in which the Hairy Man proposes to
make his successor’s life a burden to him. The
shortest way out of the difficulty would be, of
course, to let Parkes move his vote and for
Reid to sit upon him on the ground that “ the
time was inopportune,” or something like that;
but then the fighting section of the Foreign-
trade party would probably go with Parkes,
and the poor automaton with the eye-glass,
having thus lost half his following, would
never get them together again, and would
degenerate into a sort of corner-man with only
■the dispirited scrag-end of a party behind him.
Strike-leader Sleath shrmld refrain from the
useless boastfulness in which he has been
indulging respecting the fancy sums that have
been offered to hint either to leave Broken Hill
or to betray the cause by inducing the strikers
to accept the terms of the mine-lessees. Even
if tempting offers of bribery have been indirectly
made to him, he should be wisely silent about
them, for he will not be believed. Sleath
should have a sufficient knowledge of human
nature to expect the public to regard with
derision all tall statements that look like
gratuitous advertisements of his own steni
integrity and absolute impeccability to corrup-
tion, unless he is prepared to name the would-
be briber or bribers, and back up his assertions
with proofs sufficient to convince impartial
minds. Failing the throwing down of this
direct gauntlet, all bragging against sheltered
unknowns merely gives a handle to his enemies
to cast ridicule upon him as a leader, and upon
the cause which he leads.
Apropos a case heard in N.S.W. Supreme
Court last week. It is cowardly and contemp-
tible on the part of an}' Government to gratui-
tously offer technical objections to the claim of
an old man urging in person his suit
against the State. Think of the public Treasury
of a democratic country paying a lawyer to
move a Judge in Chambers to set aside a
poverty-stricken old teacher’s writ, because, for-
sooth, he had omitted to set out his address on
it ! This was bluff No. 1, at a cost of £lO.
Behold the daily press jeering at the unfortu-
nate unpropertied litigant, guffawing at his
melancholy “gathering up of his belongings
and sidling out of court,” and joining gleefully
in the jocose contempt of the lawyers, whose
very “ robes seem to pucker up into smiles of
ridicule.” Surely such lawsuits should be
entered upon by the Government in an absolute
spirit of equity. Parliament should see to the
matter.
The Art Society of N.S.W.
The annual exhibition of the N.S.W. Art Society,
opened on Monday, is fairly up to the average,
despite the fact that the names of the accom-
plished ex-president, Mr. Julian Ashton, Signor
Nerli, Signor Steffain, and one or two other well-
known artists, do not appear in the catalogue.
That there should be some artistic atrocities on
the walls was only to be expected, but the number
is comparatively small, while works like those
shown by Messrs. Lister, Spence, Fullwood and
Roberts would suffice to raise the collection above
mediocrity. Landscape art, as is usual in Aus-
tralian picture-shows, is the prominent feature of
the exhibition, and in this department Mr. W.
Lister-Lister’s ‘ The Ever-restless Sea ’ (90) stands
out emphatically as the picture of the year. The
artist has shown the ocean under a grey sky, and,
therefore, those prismatic hues which the Colin
Hunter school adopt in similar scenes in bright
sunlight are not to be found here. The tone is
sober throughout, and nothing could be better than
the drawing of the waves and the careful model-
ing of the shelving rock and shifting sand in the
foreground. The translucent painting of the
backwash of the incoming wave is also admirable,
and the painting is one that the Trustees of the
National Gallery have done wisely in purchasing.
Near this large canvas hangs another picture by
Mr. Lister, ‘ On the Beardy Plains, Stonehenge,
New England’ (112), a solid and conscientious
piece of work in an entirely different style,
wherein a fine sense of distance is con-
veyed in the far-off hills, while the fleet-
ing shadows cast across the plains from the
cloudy sky are broadly and effectively painted.
The same artist has several other contributions in
oils, all of them calling for general commendation,
the best being, perhaps, ‘ A Deserted Selection r
(6).
# * *
Mr. A. H. Fullwood’s pictures are, on the
whole, rather disappointing this year. This does
not arise from any failing off in his powers, but
because he has tried to go beyond his present
limits as an artist. An example of this is to be
found in his most ambitious effort, ‘Rain and
Sunshine,’ (113), which is an attempt to realise a-
peculiar effect that even a Turner would hesitate
to grapple. There is undoubted cleverness in the
work, but the painting of the foreground is dry
and hard, and there is a lack of depth in the inner
shadows of the bush in the middle distance.
‘lllawarra from the Bulli Pass” (35) is a large
canvas and evidently a faithful transcript of an
impressive landscape. There is admirable work in
the rock and fern undergrowth of the foreground,
but the picture has a topographical rather than
an artistic interest. Mr. Fullwood is far more in
his element when dealing with a subject like
“Declining Day” (142), a view of Sydney from
Pyrmont, in which the yellow haze of twilight if*
well given, and the painting of the bridge and!
shipping is most effective. The best picture ofi
the artist, however, in our opinion, is ’The
Swing ’ (48)—a delicate and cleverly-treated little
pastoral subject.
* * *
Mr. W. C. Piguenit, the vice-president of tte®
society, will certainly not enhance his reputation*
by his contributions to this year’s Exhibition.
His art was always somewhat conventional, butfc
he seems recently to have gone out of his way to
reproduce the crude effects of chromo-lithography.
This is especially noticeable in his views of Lan®
Cove (121 and 135), and even in his best picture,
‘A Western Pastoral,’ some sheep sheltering
themselves in the shadow of a tree, the yellow
of the sunset is far too glaring, and no attempt
has been made to draw the animals, which are
mere shapeless splodges of paint.
* * *
Mr. Percy F. S. Spence has this year devotedl
himself chiefly to figure-painting, but he has a
study of purple sea, backed by a yellow evening
sky (13), and although there is cleverness in the
painting of the water, the effect of the picture as
a whole is not pleasant. Of Mr. A. J. Daplyn’s
contributions the best is, perhaps, Sea, Surf, and
Sand ’ (25). Of Mr. J. A. Bennet’s ‘ Bush Clear-
ing ’ (101), it must be remarked that the expendi-
ture of much time and labour in drawing every
leaf of a tree and every blade of grass will not
compensate for monotony and crudity of colour.
Of the majority of the remainder of the landscapes
it only need be said that the worlds no better
and no worse than one expected to find it.
# • *
In the way of portraiture the exhibition is not
strong this year, and indeed in this department
Mr Tom Roberts virtually stands alone. His
‘ Church, State, and the Law ’ (why didn’t he call
it ‘The World, the Flesh, and the Devil?’—mind
you, ice don’t prescribe the order in which the
suggested titles should apply (5), consists of repre-
sentations of the heads of Cardinal Moran, Sir
Henry Parkes, and Mr. Justice Windeyer. Themost
characteristic portrait is that of Sir Henry Parkes,
which is a broad and vigorous piece of painting—
though failing to convey the “pomposity ” of the
original. The artist has been kindly disposed
toward the Judge, but it would be impossible to
overpraise the admirable technical quality of the
painting in all of the heads ; the red robes of the
Church and the Law are excellently treated. His
portrait of Dr. J. M'Donagh (124) is also an
excellent piece of work. Mr, Percy Spence’s por-
traits of Mr. Joseph Mitchell (30), and Mr. F.
Woollcott Waley (44) are very hard and common-
place. The models, however, seem not to have
been very inspiriting ones,
• * *
lb seems strange that in Australia, where
so much is said of founding a National
School of Art, painters should systema-
tically shun subjects dealing with local life
and history. As a proof, we have only
to look round the gallery, where we find that
among nearly three hundred pictures there are
but two that make any vigorous attempt in this
direction—namely, Mr. F. P. Mahony’s ‘As in
the Days of Old ’ (62), and Mr. Spence’s ‘ Toiled
and thirsted, strove and—suffered.’ Of these two
we are inclined to give the pride of place to the
former, although it is the less ambitious and less
imposing effort. Mr. Mahony has chosen for
his subject a not unusual incident in the early
days. His picture shows a settler on horse-
back repelling the attack of a bushranger, while a
riderless horse is galloping down the road in the
background. The figures are admirably drawn and
the whole picture is well conceived and skilfully
worked out, the painting of the horses being par-
ticularly good. It is to be regretted, however,
that the artist has not put more finish into his
work. Mr. Spence’s large canvas depicts a
solitary figure of an explorer who has come to the
end of his tether, and has fallen prone, face-down-
wards, in the desert. The subject is a pathetic
one, but the man appears far too well nourished
to have reached the last stages of starvation, and
thus the picture, so far as the human element
is concerned, scarcely tells its own story. This
fault, however, cannot he found in the landscape,
which vividly impresses one with a sense of utter
and terrible desolation. The only other
picture in the gallery that fairly lays claim
to be Australian in its _ subject is by Mr. R.
Godfrey Rivers (37), but it is simply a not very
successful painting of two models disguised as
swagsmen, wandering about in a country where
the human beings are phenomenally large and the
trees phenomenally small.
* * *
Turning to the figure pictures that are not dis-
tinctly Australian, we find Mr. Tom Roberts
greatly in evidence. His contributions may fairly
be termed ‘pot-boilers,’ inasmuch as they are
simply studies of single heads and figures, but this
in no way detracts from the technical merit shown
in the work. Perhaps his most successful effort
is his painting of the head of an aboriginal (78)
which has very properly been bought for N.S.W.
National Art Gallery, It is broadly painted, and
there is no undue forcing of the lights and shadows,
the modelling of the face being excellent. As to
the wisdom of the other purchase by the trustees,
‘ Eileen ’ (54) we are very doubtful. That it is in
its way an extremely clever piece of technique may
be admitted, but pictures like those of Messrs.
Mahony and Spence have a historical interest
which a mere study in colour, however good it
may be in itself, cannot possess. The same deft
handling is to be found in the other contributions
of Mr, Roberts, all of which are well worthy of
careful examination.
Mr. Spence’s eccentric little picture, which 'he
calls ‘Death Gathering Life’s Flowers’ (63), is a
veritable puzzle. A female figpre, scantily clad in
diaphanous drapery, and wearing an idiotic smile,
is apparently engaged in collecting flowers which
are floating in the air. The sentiment that the
artist intended to convey may be something
entirely different, but neither in subject nor treat-
ment is the work worthy of Mr. Spence. His
* Listening for the Cow-bells ’ (93), a rugged-
looking figure seated on a horse in the middle of a
plain, is a small picture showing good qualities
both in drawing and colour. But why should a
man listen for cow-bells on a plain, where he
should be able to see further than he can
hear ? Perhaps the Spencerian cowboy ,is
short-sighted. It would be absurd to seri-
ously criticise a work like ‘ The Last Warm
Blush of Fading’Day ” (127), by Mr. C. H. Hunt,
and it is difficult to understand how a painter who
has done some fairly good work in his day could
have perpetrated such a thing. It is only fair to
the artist to say that in his other contributions,
notably 1 Once upon a Time ’ (82), in which there
is some careful painting of foliage and flowers, he
has reached a higher standard. There is no
necessity to occupy much space in speaking of the
water colours, which form a good average collec-
tion, not presenting any striking features. The
two drawings purchased for the Art Gallery —‘A
Preliminary Puff ’ (202), by Mr. Edward Bevan ;
‘ The Low Lispings of the Silvery Seas ’ (206). by
Mr. A. J. Hanson—are perhaps the best choice
that could have been made. The President of the
Society (the Hon. E. Combes) sends a drawing
of La Perouse, Botany Bay, executed in 1854, the
best part of which is the sky, handled in a manner
strongly reminiscent of David Cox. Messrs.
Spence, Furnival and Minns also send specimens of
their skill in this medium, but, with the exception
of a striking little sketch called ‘Counting her
Chickens ’ (178), by the first-mentioned, the works
■do not call for special comment. Of the sculpture,
it need only be said that, with the exception of a
vigorous sketch in bronze by Miss Anne Dobson,
the contributions to this department serve to show
that in the art of modelling New South Wales is
still in its infancy.
RE THOSE BARDS.
There’s a story in the school-books of a pair of
angry boys
Who banged each other quite a deal and .raised a
lot of noise,
.And the reason of the ruction and a badly-broken
head
Was a point concerning colour —was a lobster
black or red ?
The one said black, the other rod; they started
clawing hair,
Till a bulging-browed philosopher by chance espied
the pair.
He went between the pugilists and said with
manner mild :
A lobster’s black when in the sea, but reddish
when he’s ‘biled.’”
I say the plains are splendid, and the plains are
grand and green,
■Or yellow, dry and dreadful —it depends on when
they’re seen.
And so the bards who bless the bush, or damn it
in a song—
They both are right, but each of them decidedly is
wrong.
E. D.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“Mildura”: Of course, they stole from The
Bulletin the Hopetoun-christening aboriginal rhymes.
But perhaps they didn’t know any better. A country
paper will sometimes print the Lord’s Prayer as an
original leading article.... “ E.L.” : Though a small pro-
perty qualification is necessary to enable a man to vote at
S.A. Legislative Council elections, the only conditions
precedent to becoming a member are that a man shall be
30 years old, a natural-born or naturalised British subject,
and not either a felon or a clergyman.... “Admirer of
B.”: We quite remember your handwriting... “T. 8.”
(Eidsvold): Glad to hear from y0u.... “Hubert Y.”:
Thanks, but rather far-away....“ Donald M‘D.” : Idea
excellent, but drawing crude “Old Hiram”; In our
opinion no director should act as liquidator of his own
bankrupt institution, if sacking the directors, when
their bank bursts, is “ treating them as dishonourable
men,” then auditing their accounts is doing likewise.
The director is the servant of the shareholders; they pay
him while they want him and send him away when he is
wanted no longer, and he has no more right to make a
dust about his “honour” than the waiter who is dis-
charged when the sixpenny restaurant goes broke
... “M. Nouvelle ”: The smiling child who was
made into soup is declined “C. B.” (Parra-
matta): Scarcely good enough, and we don’t care to
advise you. The man who advises another to follow
literature takes just as much risk as the one who advises
him to examine the teeth of a strange dog. It all depends
on how the dog feels, you see “ Jas. S. Babington ”
(Tasmania): You say: “No bishop of the Church of
England or anywhere else, or any of her clergy has ever
yet received one penny from the State for his services as a
clergyman.” Ye gods! Doesn’t the Church of Eng-
land alone take £4,000,000 annually in tithes from
the nation ? And if the nation isn’t the State,
then who i 5?....“ J. M‘Cracken ” (Paddington): Alleged
poem on “Sympathy” is infamously stupid?
“J. T. Bassett-Hull ” (II.H.): “Price Waning” will
write you privately, shortly “ H.C.S.” : “A Drouthy
Yarn” is good “ C.C.0.”: It is idle of ex-Minister
Carruthers to howl now about the colossal untaxed N.S.W.
estates of the Peel River and other English companies.
When he was in office he never lifted a linger against
them “ W.S.” (Kent-st.): We may not comment upon
it at present....“ Edgar C.” (Melb.): Very acceptable
“H. U. Shaw”; Kindly call “ M.T.” :We long ago
printed that “ I bin bolt ” blackfellow story “ Esau” :
We cordially detest two classes of people—those who
write to us gushing about The Bulletin, and those who
say “ I never read The Bulletin.” ... “ A.X.C.” : A most
excellent letter “E.A.L." (Tas.): Your clipping has
apparently gone astray. Can you send another? You
should be able to buy “Tales of the Convict System”
anywhere in Hobart “ Wattle Yitake” (Bendigo, Vic.):
You beetlecrush a fairy idea with the awful hoofs of your
gouty Pegasus “ E.C.0.” ; There would be no employed
Chinese if the whites would work for the same wages
“ A.C.S.” : You don’t mention what it was ...“Editor
E. M. D. B.” : Who are you, and what’s it all about ?....
“Billabong”: Yes, “Tales of the System” is “Price
Warung’s” first volume. No. 1 of The Bulletin Series was
“ A Golden Shanty.” “ F.S.” (“ The M.”): “Damper”
will do “ W.G.” : From Gray’s “Elegy in a Church-
yard.” “T.8.W.” (Maoriland); Will look out
“Constance Bede”: Yes, received, but unsuitable
“ Mono ” : Very likely ; leprosy is believed to have been
originally developed among fish-eaters “A. M‘C.” :
Nothing new. There are lots of “gents, one” loafing
about Sydney police-courts whose offices are their greasy
hats, and who will undertake any case for half-a-crown
down and a drink at the finish “Disciple”: No, it’s
printed in Sydney “Jacques”: Please send it along
again “ J.H.” : A pinch for stale news. . .“F.A.”
(Mount Lewis, Q.) : See a local medical man.... “H.W.”
(Ham., Vic.): We haven’t received the drawings ...
“ J.U.A.” : Nicely written, but where is the climax?
“ H. Alf. M‘C.” : Some queer things happen at Mackay
festivities, according to your account. If we narrated
them we’d he put in gaol W. A. Cuneo ” : Not of
general interest and disfigured by wattle. ...“An
Admirer”: Sorry you think The Bulletin “slangy;”
wi'l try to cultivate a lofty style with no flies on it...
“ The Sluggard” (Armidale); Story based entirely on the
.assumption that a journalist habitually keeps a diary—
—which is wrong. A diary is a disease, and the pressman
hasn’t time to catch it. The only use of a diary is to
.record the good things you never did in order that your
wife may come across the book by accident....“ Gywn
Araun ” : Declined. Musings in brogue are not interest-
ing... “Colonial”: The Bulletin advocates the entire
stoppage qf pauper immigration— i.e. , the importation
of cheap blackleg labour. Any healthy, intelligent,
white immigrant of good character should be welcome.
He is a consumer, and though he may compete he yet
helps to furnish employment “C.8.T.” (Melbourne);
No girl was gvqr astray l\y a ,ipan who sits jn ,the
moonlight with her and talks about .the unemployed.
You might as we|i,ma.ke him go down on his knees and
read impassioned agricultural statistics “ S.” (Cairns):
Declined. That reef is worked out “ Al. Parker ”
(Melb.): Thanks.' Will condense “Pelican”: De-
clined. Not a thrilling episode “Nemo”: Why do
you “ draw a veil ” over the horrors of the scene? The
stoiy leads up to these horrors, and w hen one reaches the
place they aren’t there.... f‘ O. B. Richmond ” (Melb.);
The girl weeping in short metre beneath the wattle, and
the frowsy drunk and the dead infant hereby' declined—
“ A.E.” (Launceston): That dog anecdote sounds like an
Old acquaintance “Jimmy from the Wire-Fence” :Wo
print one verse:
“ Oh dear Bulliten when I meet you
I’ll extend a friendly hand
Oh do not scorn poor Jackaroo
When in a forrenland.”
“A Partington”: Your verse makes us feel very
much ,as Mr. Squeers did when he unexpectedly met with
Mr. Smike ...“Iconoclast”: We presume Irishmen
mostly support Protection because Freetrade helped to "
ruin Ireland. In N.S.W. some of them very likely sup-
port it because they', with excellent reason, hate Parkes,
the Foreign-trader, who travelled oa sectarianism. The
decadence of Ireland only began in real earnest with the
introduction of Freetrade... “W. K. Mac.”; What is
there to rejoice about in the mere increase of population?
Population is the earth’s principal curse, and it ought to
be abolished “ Magpie ” ; Rather contused. As far as
we can make out, the two men ran a race each carrying a
horse, and the bookmaker swallowed the winning-post
“ G. M‘A.” ; Moderately good, but Lowell died some time
a»o and has been dead ever since, and the interest has
evaporated “W. A. Wilson”: Very feeble, and ob-
viously suffering from symptoms akin to the above
“ Maida ” : An infant isn’t a fit subject for poetry simply
because it is an infant. It is only a small, unfinished
person smeared with cat’s hairs and treacle .. “Gun-
dao-ai ”: The outcast’s funeral is an exhausted wail.
Moreover it doesn’t matter a cent to the outcast even if
she hasn’t any funeral “Phmbe”: Is it original
“M. Ross” (Melb.): We decline to calculate the interest on
£47,653 4s. Id. from 1888 till the “Day of Judgment” ...
“ E. 0.” (Drummoyne); The chorus is appropriate: “ Ah,
now in song I madly rave, because he’s going to his
grave.” You rave right enough “J. J. Clancy”:
Possible enough. It is possible to export tea to China for
that matter. But it wouldn’t pay, and nobody does it,...
“ J. Ward ” (Wellington); The crime is a capital one in
all the Australian provinces and Tasmania, but there is
no special reason why it should be so. The reason given
for the maintenance of the capital penalty is that it tends
to protect lonely women in the bush ; but, then, experi-
ence has shown that nearly all the worst cases have
occurred in or near cities “Vincent Dickers”: The
posterity in question won’t “ sit in the House of Peers.”
That gives the whole poem away at once
“Wollongong”: The “Commercial Union,” for all we
know, may be a political engine in disguise “ Thomas
.Workman ”: You have only partially succeeded. Such
lines as “They are working against their own interests ”
are prose, not poetry “ Koroit ” : The offence was not
solely against the girl: it was also against the State
“F.J.G.”: Was it’a pictorial or a literary sketch? ...
“ Proc.” : Excellent “ J.M.L.” (Whyte R.); Verses not
vet to hand “A Beat” : All right, we’ll destroy it
Wire Fence” : Yours is evidently the third reprint in
the journal which is not the original. The original is
worth £C to £lO. The others about £2— “ S.P.” (Burra-
o-orana): Sorry, but we don’t publish biographies of
Latin poets ; they are unduly exciting. Send to Sydney
Echo.
The M’Carthy section of the Irish party—
the one which is alleged to be utterly priest-ridden
—numbers ton Protestants among its members.


Selling very freely, that big shilling’s
worth of music, “Satnuell’s Popular Musical
Album.” A new pianoforte selection “ Andante
and Ent’acte,” hy Horace Poussard, a set of
Waltzes, by A. W. Juncker, The Jersey Lancers
—and eight new songs—“ The Lone Fishball,”
“Only a Picture,” “Pretty as a Butterfly,” “She
Stands Behind the Counter,” “ The Picture that
is Turned to the Wall,” “The Day I Played Base-
ball.’’“Down by the Old Farm,” “A Mother’s
Appeal to Her Boy,” with a portrait of Marion
Hood. Full music size. By post, Is. 3d., either
from W. If. Paling and Co., George-street, or
Bruce and Massey, Pitt-street; wholesale Agents,
Robt. A. Thompson and Co., 7!) Market-street,
Edwards, Dunlop and Co, Feldheim, Gotthelf and
Co., York-street, and any respectable Book and
Music store. Without a doubt the largest and
best selection of music and songs ever published
in the world at the price.*
A burglary, apparently premeditated for a
far heavier haul than was obtained, took place
early on Sunday morning at the office of li. John-
ston, King-street, Sydney. The robber, evi-
dently an expert mechanic, opened the safe by
drilling a hole and disabling the lock. On Monday
night a fire was discovered in a shop, 103 King-
street, occupied by.T. H. Morgan. Wo advise
Messrs. Johnston a»d Morgan, and those who
dread fire and theft, to trust in future to the Syd-
ney Safe Deposit.*
Mrs. Bootou says : “ Claret should he
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at al
grocers, at Is., Is. Gd,, 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clarets, and they arc only one-third of the
price.
[?]
BJ6 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Sept. 7,1892,
My Dkar Moorabinda,—
Society up North has taken an unaccountable fancy to
a foreign gentleman, said to he a Marquis, travelling
for his health, hut who will probably turn out to be a
barber travelling for his hair. However, for the present,
the cream of Titiputian society smiles upon him with
every one of its false teeth. I have heard a lot of things
about him, and can almost hear the denouement when
he induces some confiding and gilded little idiot to chare
his joys and sorrows. “ This your palace!”
The invitation view of the picture-show at N.S.W. Art
Society’s rooms last Saturday was decidedly improved by
the pouring rain—fewer folks turned up, and you hadn’t,
as is usual, to tug your demi-train from under the hoofs
of the followers of Art. And possibly the rain was re-
sponsible for the absence of those picturesque people who
come forth with touzled hair and low-necked frocks. I
only 7 saw one Art girl. She had a neck as long as a
heron’s, and her frizzled hair was surmounted by an abso ■
lately untrimmed, wide straw hat.
There was only one decently-dressed woman on the
walls—Mrs. Moore-Jones’ (Ann Dobson) pastel of Connie
Gilchrist’s sister—a painted Venus in a lemon-and-straw-
berry tea-gown that seemed to melt in one’s eye. I didn’t
like Mr. Moore-Jones’s “Adam and Eve”—they’re both
too ugly to pretend to be the forbears of some of their
descendants—myself, for example. Nor did I like the
pallid maiden mit nodings on who is drying herself with
her back hair. “ Wants a tonic,” grunted a medical man
on viewing the anaemic flesh-tints.
A crowded and “representative” house (the seats had
been taken for “ Pepila ” and a sudden change of bill had
not caused one swerve) sat out the “Mikado ” at Her
Majesty’s. Miss Nellie Hill wore the sort of garb that
takes the trick at a theatre where the V-shaped darling
always looks more or less vulgar—vice-regal precedent
notwithstanding. It was of copper-red silk, made high
and long-sleeved, and contrasted very tellingly with black
bengahne.
By the way, what does the theatre-going siren really
mean to do with her gloves? At Her Majesty’s the other
evening a very well-turned-out dame had one glove on
and the other hand bare, and there seemed to be no reason
why it should have been an natxirel —except that it was a
very pretty white hand glittering with rings, which is
reason enough for anybody, of course. But is there a rule
for this new fad that has come upon us? Andean anybody
enlighten an enquiring sister as to when you take both
your gloves off and when you take only one ? Perhaps
“one glove off” conies in when you haven’t enough
jewellery for both fore-paws ?
The very successful ball got up by a society committee
in aid of the Sydney Working and Factory Girls’ Club (an
institution which boards, lodges, amuses, and improves
working women for 12s. per week), and held in the Town
Hall on 31st ult., though it attracted the largest attend-
ance of the season, was presumably not so financially
satisfactory as others less glittering.
For, I believe, the promoteresses didn’t understand the
art of begging the printing, decorations, and so on, and as
all these things (including a supper en prince) were very
well done indeed, expenses must have been formidable.
Saving a fatal tendency on the part of the carpets to trip
you up everything was quite charming—except the queer
style in which the names of the rendezvous were
painted on the wood-work.
Many of the women wore fancy dress, but there were
few men thus arrayed. And as one wore an old court-suit
which some remote ancestor had probably squeezed out of
a mediaeval tailor, and the others included a mere Sydney
surveyor and an every-day sort of solicitor got up as naval
officers and playing off their gold lace for all its temporary
worth, the male aspect of the costume division won’t
wear my pencil to a stump.
The flower frocks were very charming. Mrs. W. B.
Mitchell, as a pink rose, looked decidedly the best, partly,
perhaps, because of her very fine diamonds. A skirt
to the ankles of pink tulle bouffant almost concealed by
falling petals ; bodice and points of dark green silk,
admirably represented the calyx ; huge puff sleeves of
pink, studded with roses, poudrd hair and Watteau wand,
with cluster of natural roses. Miss Burdekin, in a frock
of similar style, represented the Gloire de Dijon rose.
The court-cards frocks were simply Empire-ish confec-
tions with a heart or a club occurring now and then.
Miss Spalding made up a very charming “ La Cigale ” ;
Sydney’s lady-doctor came out in her medical gown ; a
lot of people were content to powder their hair and patch
their visages—but the oddest thing of all was a lady in a
black satin skirt—a tight-fit yellow satin bodice and a
label inscribed “Dry Monopole ” pinned on— well, where
the pugilist never hits, unless when he wants to be
counted out on a foul.
In the ordinary-dress section Mrs. Arthur Allen, Mrs.
Pilcher and Mrs. Burdekin (be-diamonded) wore black ;
Mrs. Douglas Mackenzie (one of the hon. secs.) wore
cream brocade and “wire” ribbons; Mrs. Woodin (on
the committee) was in cream brocade, crepe gold gimp with
very pretty diamonds. Her daughter, in white and
yellow, sported the new Pompadour dress spray in
daffodils. There was one man present in a kilt, by the
way, and he unfortunately came to grass with a dull thud
in t4)e Highland schottische. You can’t think how that
somersault in the dance of his nation detracted from the
convincingness of his phillibeg !
Methinks the object of the festive hop in question
w'ould have been more alluring to the philosopher had the
charity it benefited been wider. Working girls in clubs
incubated by society dames always degenerate into time-
servers and toadies; such places are ever stepping-stones
to the art of forelock-pulling. Take the School of
Industry, where the children, in a charily uniform, are led
to a very bon-ton church o’ Sundays, and seated in
demure rows in the gallery, and at (ho conclusion of the
service must stand up and wait until their patronesses
have left (he sacred pile 1 Quite pauper-English is it not?
—but then that’s just the thing I’otts Point wants. I
often wondered why nobody has tried to insert everybody
without an “ Ink-um ” into the smock-frock.
The annual St. Vincent’s Hospital ball takes place on
Monday, 19th inst., in Sydney Town Hall, in the presence
of Lord and Lady Jersey and those who inevitably follow
them bn such occasions. Tickets are a guinea for gentle-
men and half-a-guinea for ladies. Messrs. Canty and
Garvan are bon. sees.
Two young society ladies have valiantly started a
florist’s shop in Hunter-street, Sydney, where art-
draperies, daffodils and afternoon-tea seem to be leading
features. Their windows are prettily set cut.
One of the firm (Jean & Co.) was driven to the bouquet-
business by a very sharp whisk of Fortune’s wheel. She
was the near relative of a rich and honourable man who
invested her little fortune with his own and treated her
as his daughter. Even when he died intestate and every-
thing passed to his widow she felt secure until, just as the
latter was on the eve of making a will, she was seized
with paralysis and also died intestate. The property all
goes to distant heirs abroad, who, it seems, know nothing
of the invested money that should go to the girl who is
now starting out as a florist. And though it may “ all
come right in the end,” that is the aggravating position
of things at present.
Talking about florists reminds me that a very clever
lady from London, who runs an artistic shop in a southern
city, has a letter pasted in her window from Baron
Leopold de Rothschild in which he believes Mrs. Dash is
going to Australia for her health, and he can testify to
her efficiency because she kept a shop opposite his office
in Lombard-street! By the way, the “ notability ” letter
with carefully displayed signature is the very latest
window-advertisement in smart shops throughout the
kawlinies. And don’t let the unorthographic British
credential-writer forget it! See how poor Baron Caring-
ton’s shocking grammer is pilloried in Sydney to make
business for a cruel bootmaker.
According to a correspondent of mine, the “Daffodil ”
afternoon, held at Melbourne Austral Salon when Tithcr-
adge read a scientific paper on the jaundiced flower in the
presence of Lady Ilopetoun, ended rather uncesthetically.
It seems that Lady H. dipped her little nose into a bunch
of the subject, and, of course, everybody followed suit,
with the result that the Salon’s stockings (which are
supposed to be blue) didn’t match their noses, which were
yellow. Then an impromptu speakeress arose and alluded
to Titheradge as a high priest, and themselves as
“nymphs”—“only nymphs usually don’t have so much
clothes on.” I presume that m’ lady heard the carriage
at that juncture.
The re-assembling of Sydney Parliament last week with
the women crowding on the Council benches set me
reflecting deeply how the House would probably look if
Woman Suffrage, carried to its logical conclusion of lady
M.’sP., got home. Not a bit convincing, somehow. The
bonnets hadn’t half the astute air that the bald-heads
had—and you’ll never see a bald-headed woman legislator,
I’ll wager. She’d wear a cap and the other side would
call her “Grandma,” or she’d wear a frisette and her
nickname would be “ Tottie.”
In “A Peer of the Re&lm,” at Sydney Opera House,
Myra Kemble’s moulded form looked most killing in the
workmanlike habit and top hat of Act I. It’s only a very
ship-shape figure that can carry a riding habit on the
stage without looking like a remnant sale—the un-
corseted tea-gowney star should never attempt such a
thing. Don’t you remember what a sloppy figure Mrs.
Beere cut in a riding-suit ?
In'Act 2, Mrs. Molyneux .(in the leading part) looked
very wistful in smoke-grey and a qua'ker fichu of white
mull. Miss Kemble (who is very generous at helping her
company to all the theatrical fat) sported a white serge
Eton costume made with a buttercup blouse front, and
both ladies played out the last act in the hues of the
raven and the magpie, respectively. “ Peer of the
Realm’’should go down to posterity as being possibly
the only drama with a lord in it and not one evening suit.
Govmentouse is seen so infrequently at the play that
the stall sacredly set apart for it in the middle of Her
Majesty's d.c. is allowed to fill up just as if there were no
red curtains separating it from the common rush. It’s
really allee same as the other rows of seats—you pay your
money and you take your choice whether you pose in the
front divans as a patron, or perch on cane further
back—only it doesn’t look it. A party in a box always
seem en rapport, and sometimes the boxed-up mob of
utter strangers presents a very incongruous appearance.
The other evening a well-known society woman shared
this promiscuous haven with a gold-washed lady-also
well-known. People who didn’t understand how the
haven worked, kept their marvelling opera-glasses on the
social puzzle between each act.
It is related of one Australian Governor that when he
was en route for the scene of his official labours he was
never seen in anything but'white deck-shoes and a paper-
collar—added to other articles of apparel, of course.
Nearing port some of the Australian passengers gave him
a dinner, and bets were out that he would grace the fes-
tive food in the collar and boots. And he did—despite
the full-dress solemnity of the occasion 1
Talking Governor reminds me that Lord Jersey has
submitted to have his classic features modelled by a Syd-
ney sculptor for exhibition at Chicago. But it was after
much demur on His Ex.’s part, and he will only give the
artist in pipeclay a couple of sittings to catch the vice-
regal expression in, so it is very probable t he bust will end
in being crowned with laurel and sent over as “Julius
Ciesar.” By the way, when the thing’s done I suppose we
shall speak of the genial Earl as the “model Governor?’’
N. 8.—1 perpetrate an unkind remark like that merely to
forestall innumerable “ wits” of the English order. N.B.
some more.—English wit never gets beyond puns.
The Sydney lady dress-reporter who runs wide of the
beaten track, shouldn’t give the whole length of the reins
to her original instincts. For instance, one of them airily
put it the other day that “Mrs. Dash-Blank, in Grecian
robes, looked extremely nice— the loose style saitinj her
admirably.”
Yours alTeclionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her, Majesty's “ Faust up to Date.”
Garrick “ Alabama Minstrels.”
Oi'eka House “A Peer of the Realm.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Buou ‘‘A Village Priest.”
Princess's 11 The Silver King.”
“ The Mikado ” was revived for the second
time during the season at Sydney Her Majesty’s
on Saturday, with Clara Merivale, as Yum Yum,
turning on the vocal flow at half-tap during the
first act, so as to burst forth at top-pressure in
“The Moon and I” solo of act 2. She spoilt it,
however, by seeming to sing “We’re very hi-lii-
hake, the Moon and I ” —the usual gibbering
shriek of the vocalist who forces a relentless G
from the wrong end of her gullet; but her fan
by-play, especially the boomerangish business with
the red fire-screen, was very neat. Howard
Vernon’s Ko-Ko might have been laid up in
lavender since the first performance—wink for
wink, except gagging, the “little list” encore
verses a la Pollard’s juveniles, and a new way of
saying “Nanki-Poo.” 1 fenry Bracy barked the top
Ain “ Here’s a how de do ’ —a very neatly-named
item, as it turned out. Pooh Bah (the Kyley) was
an entertaining Japanese snob, but a management
which can cruelly drape those lovely, vanishing
legs in Asiatic petticoats is the sort of manage-
ment that would hang an umbrella-skirt on the
Venus do Medici.
# # #
Violet Varley (the gallery calls her Violet)
with the aid of her arehly-expressionful mezzo-
soprano, made Pitti-Sing the leading girl in the
Willow Plate Operetta, and took the only bouquet
of the night. Elsie Cameron, as the Japanese
lady with the "name like an English sneeze, though
not massive enough for the “circulation” witti-
cism (which should bo omitted according to the
longitude of the contralto), gave a most artistic
rendering of her part, and Edwin Kelly’s Mikado
was the same benignant potentate as of yore. A
rechauffe of “ Gondoliers ” and “Yeomen of the
Guard ” interspersed with matinees took J.C.W.
past the operatic post with flying colours on
Friday.
** * *
Despite any impressions to the contrary
conveyed in the above paragraphs, that stagnation
which is half-brother to death and uncle to the
grave hangs over the show business in Sydney as
consistently as ever. The Alabama Minstrels
are drawing good houses at the Garrick, but the
Garrick is small, and a reasonably funny African
can fill it any day. Also one or two smaller shows
keep up in an uncertain fashion, like an inebriate
with one leg. Anew “forest glade ” —what is a
glade when it is off the stage, and did anybody
ever see one ?—has been turned on at the
Alhambra, and a new juggler of dark and horrible
ingenuity is at the Gaiety, and the Cyclorama gives
free Sunday admission with the “usual collec-
tion,” which seems to suggest that the large,
flat expounder is on tin loose at Gettysburg.
And most of these and the other shows still
announce that the free-list is “entirely suspended,”
though in many cases it would be a lot easier to
suspend the paying part of the audience, and
would require much less rope, and wouldn’t make
the hangman feel near so exhausted. In fact, the
aforesaid list is so very extensive in some places
now that the wheeze might as well bo omitted.
The only time, within the writer’s recollection,
when the free-list was really suspended was when
a country editor hung himself in the theatre, but
such events as that don’t happen nearly so often
as they ought to do.
** * *
The Gaiety girls were a very subdued
kind of boom in Brisbane for the average local
Johnnie’s screw has been reduced to about thirty
shillings a week —you can’t have much Gaiety
girl for thirty bob a week—and the public never
cottoned to the show. Lonnen and Courtneidge
hit ’em a crack and so did the magnificent mount,
iug, but the dreary drivel of alleged humour
simply soaked into a sand of public indifference.
With exs. at <£22o a night the Brisbane season
can’t have been very profitable.
* * *
A matinee benefit to Mr. Charles Burford
the veteran actor, will happen Sept. 19, at Sydney
Garrick. That valuable white man, Mr. J. jj.
Rainford, is pushing on the arrangements, and
many members of the profession are willing to
lend a hand. It is to ba hoped that a huge crowd
will assemble to give a good and reputable old
actor the lavish send-off which he so much de-
serves—and needs.
“The Landslip” was carefully staged at
Melbourne Bijou last Monday week, in the pre-
sence of a large and fashionable audience. There
were grounds for suspicion that the house had
been “ salted” by the instigator of this cruel deed
inasmuch as he was eventually summoned to
appear before the curtain, and rewarded with
nothing harder than a bunch of flowers. Unpre-
judiced observers expected the author to meet
with a tragic end, but a lot of other people had
evidently come prepared for the worst, and felt
quite satisfied when they got it. Apart from
immediate financial results, “ The Landslip”
(described as a skit, in one act) was not produced
in vain. It served to show how a particularly fat
dramatic opportunity may be thrown away on a
particularly thin young man, and how the privi-
leged youth aforesaid, filled with an enterprising
notion of striking a literary iron while it is red-
hot, may strike it so feebly as to make no impres-
sion and produce no sparks. To take another line
of metaphor—when the ball was at the feet of
Mr. Harold Mackenzie, he merely succeeded in
kicking the bucket. “ The Landslip ” was played
for a second night on its merits, but its merits
were too feeble to carry the ghastly “joke’’any
further. Messrs. B. and B. should have advertised
their willingness to spend much time, trouble and
talent in interpreting an idea of which their
author had offered but a faint suggestion. A
dozen jerry- builders of nigger minstrel farces
might have furnished them with the article re-
quired. Brough appeared to be the only topical
feature of this fizzle. Made up after the image
of— not Matthew Davies, as it happened —he was
the otherwise intangible emblem of a boomer pur-
sued by bailiffs, and he talked wildly of doing his
six years for ruining the widow and the orphan.
If he had talked of getting whitewashed by the
Government, or of hatching a scheme for the
reconstruction of his injured innocence, the
character might have approached a libel. Cecil
Ward, Miss Emma Temple, and others, also tried
hard to find some snap and current interest that
was hidden from the eyes of man, but they seemed
to hinge on nothing in particular, and were as
illusory as the title of the alleged “skit.” A
false title altogether. It should have been called
“ The Chanceslip.”
&
“ A Village Priest ” was not quite ready
to face the Bijou orchestra on Saturday, so, whilst
the management is putting the last polish on that
reverend novelty at rehearsal, “The Pickpocket”
holds the flure. Melbourne never seems to weary
of the old identities who re-appear at regular
intervals in “The Pickpocket.” Boucicault, the
waiter, always sets the table in a roar, and Har-
wood, in his original character of a dyspeptic
whale, makes the house shake every time he
wants to sit down. Cecil Ward, Titheradge, and
Haygarth are also bright gems in the crown of
excellence, and the ladies simply defy competition
in their light lines of business. “ The Pick-
pocket ” will positively boom again until Satur-
day, by which time “A Village Priest” should
be prepared to make the sensation expected of
him.
** * *
“ The Silver King” is still finding pardon
and pieces at the Princess’s. For another week,
at least, the Spider will give his wife that beauti-
ful lesson in natural philosophy—“ The duck
gobbles up the worm, and the man gobbles up the
duck, and then the worm gobbles up the man.”
Also, Mrs. Spider will continue to prove the
correctness of Shakespeare’s theory that conscience
is a bad thing, by laying the foundation-stone of
her husband’s ruin, and so getting left at the
finish with no Spider, no swag, and no nothing.
“The Silver King” is loaded right up with
eternal truths. That ancient gaffer, who once
heard the Judge sob like a baby when he passed
sentence on the Aylesbury murderer, is a re-
minder that Justice Hodges tried hard to pump
up a tear when he foretold Deeming’s doom. The
law never sobs until the prisoner is a “ goner, ’’and
its sympathy makes no difference to the noose.
Another solid institution in this drama is the
detective, Baxter. Baxter is founded upon the
unchanging experience of life, and persistently
fails to effect a capture until somebody lias “ blown
the gaff. ” The drunken passenger, too, is full of
human nature, whilst the friskiness of old Tabitha
(who is three widows) contrasted with the decrepi-
tude of old bachelor Jaikes, confirms the opinion
of the person who said it is better to have married
and buried than never to have married at all.
And the more you bury, the better it is. The
side-lighting of this great story is efficiently
managed by Harry Daniels, Rigby, Gladstone,
John Bryan, Mrs. Greenwood and others. There
are a duke and duchess in the show, but their
names don’t appear on the programme, therefore
a long notice of their fugitive performance must
be held over indefinitely.
f« $ $
Four halls are open this week, but the
Alexandra went over to the majority on Friday
night. Saturday concerts at the Exhibition show
a still more upward tendency, and as the warm
weather comes near they talk of throwing open
the building and reviving the promenade. The
Rotunda also rings with melody once a week, and
Fitzgeralds’ Circus, the Cycloramas, and so forth
are all there or thereabouts.
** * *
lloyce takes his farewell matinee at the
Royal nn Wednesday (17th), and may reckon upon
A !< Peer of the Realm ” is the time-worn story
Of a British nobleman, long and Tory,
Whose face is lank and his language gory,
And whose son loves a maiden of low degree ;
Wherefore this nobleman, long and Tory,
Tears his hairs, which are few and hoary,
And uses expressions defamatory
Till his heir departeth beyond the sea
To make a home and a pile of riches,
And after him goes a traitor, which is
llis rival disguised in tattered breeches,
With the brand of Cain on his loathsome brow ;
Then in the tale a curious hitch is,
For one stormy night, when sodden witches
And ghouls are shrieking among the ditches,
With a knife this ruffian lays him low.
And there midst the rain and mud and thunder,
The murdered man with a thud goes under,
And his friends in the far land wait and wonder
When the voiceless dead will return again;
Then it transpires, somehow or other,
That the homicide is the corpse’s brother,
And his aunt proves somehow to be his mother
(As happened to Abel when plugged by Cain).
So the lost son sleeps beside the river,
Where the night birds wail and the breezes shiver,
And o’er him the wild flowers shake and quiver,
While his girl is his rival’s promised bride ;
And things grow sadly mixed thereafter,
Through a dude who is daft and growing dafter,
And whose fishy eye and idiot laughter
Should be stopped by some vigorous homicide.
And a tattered cynic (like old King Gama),
With a beery breath and a panorama,
Intrudes just here on the lagging drama
In two burst boots and a shattered tile;
And that British bather, long and Tory,
Grows sadder still, and still more hoary,
And weeps as he tells his painful story
To an old fat man with an old fat smile.
* 0 «
Then a Horror raiseth that noble’s hair,
For the hoofs of a vision are on the stair,
And calmly the deadman enters there,
In a peaceful, abstracted manner ;
But never does that deceased explain
How he chanced to return to this world again,
But his brother seems smit with an inward pain,
Born of eating unripe banana.
And that bad man repenteth all too late,
And flieth in haste through the garden gate,
Like a harassed spirit pursued by Fate,
With unrelenting animus;
And what happeneth after no one knows,
But the audience taketh its hat and goes,
Like the swine in the Scripture tale that rose
And fled in a style unanimous.


THE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
* m Jf-ffOTy, 1593, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
t I a ' nubilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
urance Co, in the world.
Cntu i t .^°® s the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
usively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROUGHES & WATTS
(LIMITED),
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and Indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND-
Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips, &c., &c.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time.
Address:—
8 Bond Street, Syduey<
Ending the house a good deal fuller than it was
, o.',V ur dav, when the ex-employes of the Royal
'their afternoon out, but didn’t derive much
had ttien
change front the ululiic.
iff flf 3$ $£
Bi a nd Holt closed a not altogether profit-
hie season at the Adelaide Royal, on Friday,
able seaa . . „,., 10 . Br i i, • i.;„
Sept. 2, the melodramas staged ourin r his enga e-
ment there being A bailors Ivnot, ihe
Trumpet Call,'’ and Master and Man.” On the
list evening of his stay, Teddy Davies, ventrilo-
ouist and stockbroker, made Bland a presentation
i nsisting of a banner covered with scrip which,
c... , r years ago, was worth £7OOO ; “present value,
tour ye , „ ~ , f,.ii r . vv -rn i
Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay. Un the following iuesday
the company left by ship for Brisbane where they
open in the ‘ Bells of Haselmere, on Saturday,
Sept. 17. Maggie Moore and Struck Oil are
now in possession at Adelaide.
* * &
*,i rt TVTntnn flip violinist oontviv* d to
Ovide Musin, tne violinist, con timed to
play a rather cruel tuck upon the omnis-
gj eu t critics of the Melbourne morning
natiers. His first concert was rather thinly
intended, and each of these clever persons
assured him through the medium of the organs of
assiueu _ . .P, . .. ~ , ,i ®
public opinion wine i they enliven that the reason
of public apathy was that he did not play the
so-called “ classical ’ music, for which, according
to their account, the concert-goers hunger and
fbirst Now, Musin is not built that way, and if
Kiev knew anything they should have known that,
tneyaue j Y “ hrilliint » aobnnl nf
He is of the .modern, or onlliant school, ot
which Paganini and De Benot are about the best-
known exemplars, and to ask him to play
“classical” music is pretty much like asking
Teddv Lonnen to play Macbeth. Moreover, he
had a shrewd suspicion that they did not know
much music of any kind. So he put up a job one
•if n “ Dundee de Concert” of his own com
night, a Oapiict GOnoert (it Ins own com-
position, *x showy, tuiieiul thing intended merely
to display the rapidity of his fingering. This he
repeated the next night, crediting it to Wieniaw-
ski and calling it a mazurka. The critics did not
recognise it, but they accepted it as a good speoi-
” Hilt comnnser’s Sfvle nnd Hisnonraod
men of that composei s style, and discoursed
learnedly aoout its characteristic peculiarities,
The third night he passed off the same piece as
the work of Raff, and the fourth night put it
down to Leonard, and so on throughout the whole
of his seven concerts, each night playing the same
piece without the slightest alteration, and each
H f rn.iTimmr if« -md o-ivimr if o
night changing it. name and g l 'mg it a new
technical appellation. Ihe result proved that
none of the critics knew a cavatina from a
mazurka, and when Musin s agent, M. Fabien
Ferraud, told them plainly how they had been
fooled, after his principal bad left, their despair
and ram were pretty to behold. Musin opens at
Svdnev Town Hall to-dav Thnrsdav (Seut 8) and
Ll 1711. Sepl«. .to. He i, .upported by
Schaif and other.-, and Mi. J. u. Williamson is
the entrepreneur.
At Poverty Point.
An alleged actor, was allotted six months’ hard
hbour, the other day, by P.M. Lee (Sydney), for steal-
ing a number of billiard halls. His lawyer stated that he
was a kleptomaniac, “ and that was why he was sent from
England to Australia.” Wanted—a law whereby every
criminal who has been sent out from dear old Ilingland to
be out of the road, can, upon conviction, be summarily
dumped on board a steamer and sent back again. Said
criminal to shovel coals all the way for his board and
passage more} , and to be gaoled in the first port of arrival
for “disobedience” if he declines to shovel the aforesaid
coals.
The Melbourne dramatic clubs are much in evidence
just now, almost more than actors.
When a certain celebrated organist and egotist was in
Christchurch, M.L., the other day, the Liedertafel sent
him an invitation to come and have a pleasant evening.
He went and sang them one of his own whangdoodle
ditties—something about “ knocking”—and also improved
the occasion with a pious lecture, w inding up by asking
the members whether if the Loid should come knocking
at their hearts just then, would they let Him in ? The
hoys, who were on an average just outside two whiskies
a-piece, groaned.
Adelaide Quiz: “The abolition of the time-honoured
interval is to be commended.” Belcher this wasn’t
written by a pressman.
It is unsafe to insult the noble red man, even when he is
off his native prairie. A Latrobo (Tas.) youth the other
day made faces from across the street at one of Dr.
Carver’s Indian cowboys, the Eagle of the Mountains (on
the bills, but whose week-day name is Bear). So at once
Bear unloosed his lariat, and dexterously captured the
youth, whom he gathered in and booted severely. Since
then the hatrobe yout h make no grimaces at the Eagle,
unless flora the window of a special tram under full steam.
Writes a Northern correspondent:—“The Albury man,
who claims to be the only Australian white who can make
and throw a boomerang, needs reminding that Meston,
the Queenslander who is taking thirty blacks round the
world, not only makes boomerangs as well as the blacks,
hut throws right and left-handed with equal expertness.
Tiie American showman, R. A. Cunningham, who has
gone to Chicago with some Townsville blacks, saw Meston
performing with the boomerang while in Brisbane three
weeks ago, and he says it was a phenomenal exhibition.
Heston's seventeen-year-old son also throws the boomerang
as well as the average my all. Another American, Horace
Baker, some time since in charge of engraving staff of the
1 icTDREi-QUB A’rtAs, Sydney, is also an adept in making
and throwing the boomerang. On his return lie gave an
exhibition in New A ork.
Charles Hawtrey, author or adaptor of “The Private
Secretary,” was recently ordered to restore conjugal
rights to his wife, but we haven’t heard that the Court’s
instructions have been fully carried out.
Eille Norwood—one gathers from a puff notice of that
remarkable young man—wrote most of “The Noble Art ”
|u the library of the-aw Melbourne Club, in the
intervals which were not devoted to social enjoyment,
mile has heard “ with particular regret ” of the death of
the Earl of Ancrani, with whom lie was a guest last year
at the seat of Sir George and Lady limes. Furthermore,
alle contemplates settling in Australia, hut “ perhaps,”
says Lille s historian, “the cordial appreciation of London
u . aces may induce him to arrive at the determination
give the old country another trial.” Let us hope so.
ooocly wants to rob London audiences of their Eille.
Harry Riekards’s gag, “ My wife won’t get up till the
Meets are aired,” is a plagiarism (unconscious, possibly)
in S. 1 ® ,nai 'J t made by Dora Spenlovv to David Gopperfield
"““.ns novel: “My governess, the stupid old thing,
(iiiVtk 0,v 1116 colne out until the day is aired.” Nowa-
ys the good things are always said by someone else.
H e «F iet ' a Watson comes out of her shell in “The Silver
mi , ano _, er demonstration that good parts make good
“V or Henrietta did not play half so well in the small
cnaracters she took with Bernard-Beere.
At a N.Q. township Gov. Sir Henry Norman was once
entertained with an unrehearsed scene in an amateur
minstrel entertainment. The local washerwoman—a Mrs.
Kelly—-who occupied a prominent seat, look offence at a
local hit and gave the amateurs a painful hit of her mind.
The joke was : “ Why does Mrs. Kelly resemble a certain
brand of soap ?” “ Because she can’t wash clothes.”
Frances Saville (Fanny Simonsen, jun.), the bright and
beautiful rising star on the operatic horizon, first appeared
in Sydney as a member of the “ Froliques” Cos., imported
by her father, Mai tin Simonsen—of which Carrie Godfrey
(“Grandfather’s Clock”) and Lottie Elliott, the skipping-
rope dancer, were members. She was then hut a little
girl, of whom nobody took any particular notice.
Hennings’ Melbourne Cycloiama, at the local Exhibi-
tion, is awaited with interest. We will never forget how
the public hung entranced over his panorama of Fawkner
landing at Melbourne, in Akhurst’s Australian Christmas
pantomime of “Jack Melbourne and Little Victoria.”
An habitue complained to Conductor Sir M. Costa that
his chorus ladies were forty years old. Costa ; “ Yes, hut
they know forty operas.”
Nasty “jar” from the programme issued at Sydney
Town Hall on the occasion of Signora Outtiqa’s benefit:—
“Parla Italiano?-The musical critic of the Sydney
Morning Herald, whoever ‘that person’ may be, getting
tired, apparently of the monotony of writing eulogistic
notices of the Million Popular Concerts, has come down
heavily on the printer—p-o-o-r printer—for his many
typographical errors in the programme issued for last
Friday evening’s concert. The printer does not object to
criticism—more especially adverse criticism—as he is per-
fectly resigned to the position in which aDivine (or other-
wise) Providence has placed him. However, the printer
thinks (you will observe he exercises thought sometimes)
it might havejieen as well if ‘ that person ’ had consulted
the management as to the source from which the printer
obtained his copy. For‘that person’s’ present edifica-
tion the printer begs to tender the information that tho
copy was obtained from Friday’s issue of the Sydney
Morning Herald. The Herald’s mistakes in the pro-
gramme of 10 numbers total 11 as against the poor
printer’s 9, six of which are the outcome of mistakes on
the part of the great daily.—We are, , The
Printers.
Kreitmayer is at his best as a medical waxworker and
reproducer of man’s internal arrangements. Give him a
diseased liver and he will turn out such an exact duplicate
in wax that a hungry dog would probably snap at the
counterfeit organ for choice. Kreitmayer has indeed a
fine feeling for colour in congested sweetbreads, and all
such human mysteries. Which reminds us that a well
stocked dissecting-room, for gentlemen only’, would make
a notable addition to the Melbourne Waxworks. Who
wouldn’t pay sixpence extra to see how his lungs look
after death ?
In “Salome” the Mrs. Potiphar-Joseph situation is
worked out. Salome falls iu love with John the Baptist,
disguised under the title of Yokanaan; he rebuffs her.
“ Hell lias no fury like a woman scorned,” and so she
hags his head, as the price of her skirt-dance, from Herod.
Darmont would like to have played the saintly St. John,
so sternly and dignifiedly repulsing the advances of
Salomii Bernhardt. What a lark !
Jean de Reszke sent a night’s salary as his contribution
to the Goring-Thomas memorial fund. The cheque was
for £l6O, and the great tenor plays on an average three
times a week. He and his brother Edouard are enthusi-
asts in horse-breeding, and they have a large haras in
Russian Poland, where they spend all their spare time.
Tiie Brisbane people firmly believe-probably because
some manager told them so-that they are “ the most
acutely critical audience in Australia.” And now one
critic in the city by the muddy river and the mangrove
swamps blandly remarks that “companies, as a matter of
fact, arc only rehearsing in Melbourne and Sydney before
they dare appear in Brisbane.” This statement looks true
when you come to think it over. Irving, for example,
lias never ventured to appear in Brisbane yet, probably
because he hasn’t rehearsed enough iu London to face the
ordeal.
A certain Australian theatre, we hear, was lately given
rent-free to a company in the interest of the tenants of
shops connected with it, but even under these circum-
stances the company could not make headway.
The Tasmanian Amy Sherwln was such a big draw at a
recent Patti concert that she has been re-engaged for the
next, to he held in October.
At a recent Sydney Sunday “ sacred and classical ”
concert the “ hill of fare ” included six comic and two
serio-comic songs. Asa foot-note were the words—“ The
audience are requested to refrain from whistling or stamp-
ing whilst the performance is proceeding.”
Where were the old hands in the Coppinian prize drama
competition ? Had they no faitli in the Artful Dodger?
The verdict of some Melhourneiles on Gaiety Courtneidge
is that he is a second-hand edition of Teddy Royce, and
is only strong in drunken fooling.
Apropos the fact that Herbert Flemming is now Mrs.
Langtry’s leading man, a Sydney daily remarks that, “in
Australia, he played Nils Krogstad to the Torvald Helmer
of the amiable Mr. Charrington.” “The amia' le Mr.
Charrington ” will strike you as excellent, if you sit hack
and think very hard.
Laura Healey, that very agile young Australian whose
high kick in the fin-de-sit'cle ballet is a thing of beauty
and a joy for ever, gives up dancing for matrimony
shortly.
Harry Rickards, a horn nomad, has sold off his magni-
ficently-furnished house at Randwick, and so seems to
have relinquished Iris avowed design of settling down iu
Australia.
Sydney D.T. says that Herbert Flemming came to Aus-
tralia with the London Comedy Cos. Asa matter of fact
Flemming was an Australian 1 trought into prominence,
like Harry Jewett, by Louise Pomeroy. She was a good
judge.
11. R. Jewett has once more attempted matrimony.
This time the lady is, or rather was, a Miss Frances Uiill
Robinson, daughter of the P.M. at Young. Under the
name of “Frances Hastings” she played several small
parts with the Rignold Cos.
Dear Bulletin,— “Sappho Smith ” says that “Sydney
’Varsity (that’s English, you know) Dramatic Society
never produces the hackneyed.” Now, it seems to me
that it was only the other day that they put up “ Blow for
Blow,” a play that has been hacked to splinters by every
amateur crowd in Australia during the last ten years,
or ever since the London Comedy Cos. populaiised it.—
Yours, Habitue.
They say t hat a history of the reasons for Allan Morris’s
virtual suppression while in Australia w ould make spicy
reading.
If Milu struck Sir M. 11. Davies for £2OO, Emelie Melville
did more than one hetu r, by costing another Melbourne
theatrical attorney £BOO-and jet he adheres to the pros.
Harry St. Maur, probably the most beautifully-dressed
actor who ever visited Australia, is reported at latest
advices to he in an uuprospernus condition at Boston
(U.S.A.). St. Maur was rather a good comedian, and he
looked like a man who wore a corset and had 72 pairs of
pants. Also, he displayed a bangle on his front limb, and
lie will he long remembered with gratitude in Australia as
the manager who caused Christie Murray to he seized by
a big Irish policeman.
George Tat. Fortescue sometimes gets down to his
nightly grind at Sydney Gaiety in a two-horse ’bus. He
pays single fare—which may he the reason why there
liave been whispers that passengers in hired vehicles are
to be charged so much per stun.
The son of a very heavy theatrical dignitary is playing
with the Boothman crowd at Melbourne Alexandra. He
is a juvenile edition of Iris pa, but is not popular under
the paternal roof on account of his having taken unto
himself a wife contrary to orders.
The Wild Cat Column.
The laws of every Australasian province should
provide that any shareholder in any public banking or
insurance Co. shall he able at any time on payment of a
fair foe to immediately obtain a list of all registered
shareholders or policy-holders up to date. AH sorts of
rigs have been worked through directors being able to
address shareholders and policy-holders personally by
circular—a privilege denied to interested and aggrieved
people not having the office-resources at their command.
* * *
“ Bills receivable ” is a large and elastic balance-
sheet item. The late George Durham used to tell, in Iris
hard, grim fashion, how he once received London instruc-
tions to specially audit the balance-sheet of an Australian
concern, and found the personal bills of the resident
partners figuring as assets under tire convenient “ bills
receivable.”
* # *
Andy Kelly, M.P., wants all N.S.W. life and
fire insurances audited and found either correct or in-
correct, as a fitting sequel to hoom-hursting- revelations.
Said Carruthers, M.P., on this: “So far, life-insurance
and other companies are carrying on business just as risky
as that of any of the offices which have failed.” What arc
the chances now of a general company-scare ?
* * *
Pastor Pitoliett, in the Review op Reviews,
says never a word about the boom and its bitter after-
math. Why ?
* # #
Perhaps the most humorous feature of the
Broken Hill strike is the cheerful persistence with which
the capitalistic press keeps shifting ahead the date when
sufficient hands to work the mines are “confidently
expected to resume operations.”
» * #
The daily press ably seconds the Broken Hill'
directors in bluffing the miners. By the way, the
“ foreign ” miners are acting level-headediy in not black-
legging. We don’t wish to enlarge on this theme.
* # #
A South Australian M.P., who is also a mining-
shares gambler, is straightforwardly accused of inditing
letters to a local daily as a pretended working miner of
Broken Hill. If this he true, who is the worse—
the disguising writer, or the editor who palms off the
counterfeit —we had almost said forgery ?
# # #
Singular how the Broken Hill Block Co., which
has been prospecting for some years, should find traces of
silver at an 1892 feet level.
# # «
Why was Mr. Badham, P.M., removed from
Broken Hill at the advent of the strike? In whose or
what interests was the change made? When he was
P.M. for Walgett district the impartial and painstaking
way in which he threshed out all evidence in employment
cases, “so common in pastoral districts,” as well as his
curt refusals to discuss pending oases with interested
J.’sP.. won for him the respect and confidence of all.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Does the guarantee of the
Associated Banks, respecting all institutions under their
cover, apply to N.S.W. as well as Victoria? If so, they
could make a most respectable dip in the depressed shares
of two of the attached banks. If the combination has no
millstone, the public arc mad not to buy at present prices.
• # #
Rev. John Watsford (N.S.W.); “I have been
preaching over 50 years, hut I have never known the
hungering and "thirsting after holiness that is now going
on throughout the length and breadth of the land.” Is
that so? Then “ Stop, Thief !” ere there is time to work
up another boom. These are the preliminary symptoms.
♦ # #
More joy in store for the shareholders of the
Real Estate Bank. The Australian Property and Invest-
ment Co., which amalgamated with the bank shortly
before the smash, has circularised the shareholders to the
effect that they will he compelled to make a “ small call
of about a shilling” to liquidate certain liabilities for
which the Real Estate Hank is not liable. This on top of
the ss. and the £2 ss. calls from the Bank.
» # •
Millidge, of the late Mercantile Bank (Melb.),
says he “regards the position of the bankas sound.”
Also, The Bulletin regards Queen Anne as not being
dead. In proof of which it will back that lady to race
Millidge’s hank for £5 and the gate-money, the sounder
institution of the pair to take the pool.
# * *
In an English company’s (London directorate)
property up —ah, South—it was once found necessary to
connect two shafts, 600 ft. apart, by means of tunnels at
the 300 ft. levels. After a series of elaborate surveys, the
English “managah ” started the men on the job. When
the tunnels didn’t meet where it was expected they would,
they began prospecting to find each other. When they
found they couldn’t find each other, each struck out for
the opposite shaft. Neither hit, nor could either find it
by prospecting. So the “managah” let the water get
into the mine, and flooded the workings where lie bad
been bungling. Then the London directorate were advised
of an incontrollable influx of water, and the ground was
abandoned, and nobody has ever been the wiser.
# # *
In London, tbe other day, somebody asked the
inevitable question—“ How can we do financial business
with a country where the word of a ‘ leading man ’ isn’t
worth a straw ?” The significance of this expression of a
wide and deep thought will he better appreciated in a
year or two. Australia makes such a grand mistake in
accepting “leading” lying as a matter of course, and
allowing the fairly decent trunk, limbs, and tail of the
community to he judged by its political head.
* # *
The N.S.W. Refrigerating and Meat Export
Co. seems a big thing—for D’Arcy Brothers, who, by way
of brokerage and incidental expenses, have not only
snapped up all collected to date, hut have a little hill still
left against the co. However, the affair having been en-
quired into at the beginning instead of at the end, not
much harm has been done.
# * #
Foy and Gibson— The Bulletin prints this
at the risk of causing disappointment and grief to
thousands of Melbourne tradesmen—have not made a
composition with their creditors at the rate of ten-and-
sixpence, three-and-sixpence, or sixpence “ neat,” in the
£. Once a week or so a green-eyed grocery trade is sup-
posed to sooth its feelings with the story that the
“ cutting ” linn has gone bung in private, hut the story is
a mere common or garden kind of lie. It circulates con-
siderably, however. Whiteley, the Universal Provider,
and all traders who achieve notoriety,-,have their credit
attacked in this harmless manner at regular intervals, and
the Whiteleys of Melbourne can’t expect to escape the
howl of the undersold rival. Probably Foy and Gibson
like it, rather than otherwise. Although they are reli-
giously paying 20s. in the £ for everything, they are
likely to turn their stock over all the oftener whilst the
public believe them to he trading at a loss.
# # *
We anticipated as much—the mining authority
of the Sydney Sabbath thinks well of the Marvel crushing
because he believes it comes from the top, bottom, and
right along the reef. Csesar ! where else could it come
from? Imagine any such description applied to a
Charters Towers crushing ! It is the same old system of
the N.S.W. boomer, with this difference—that once mining
managers and newspaper correspondents’mining-reports
were believed and now—exp. docet—they aren’t.
* * *
A correspondent is anxious to have The Bul-
letin’s opinion of the Swamp Oak field, Tamworth district,
N.S.W. The writer knows little about it, and that little not
too encouraging, for he thinks next to nothing of any
gold-field whose crushings are few and far between anil
consists of parcels of 20 and 30 tons averaging about an
ounce to the ton. It can’t be denied that the runs of gold
or stone, or probably both, are narrow and short—the
curse of most N.S.W. quartz-fields.
• * •
The Bulletin has often been accused of
pessimism in re Pambula goldfield, especially with refer-
ence to Pambula mine, which nearly a year ago was
described as patchy and puzzling. Shares were then five
times their present value. Now it can he judged by its
results. After heaps of crushing of selected parcels of rich
ore, the company, after counting the cost, lias a credit
balance of a few pounds only. The mine has no crushing or
other machinery, and, what is worse, no calling power tc
get any so far as we can see. The only way to get along
will be to go on gouging the eyes out of a sick mine.
# # #
On the Zeehan field it looks ,to be a case of
“tribute” with those that are worth it; already some
have started on that system.
* * *
At Dundas, Zeehan, a few concentrating plants
will be set going, but when silver ore from small lodes has
to be treated by this procecs - well, will it pay? How
have they shaped on the Barrier? But one point in favour
of Zeehan sulphide is that it carries a'higher percentage
of silver per ton.
* * #
The largest cake ever got out of Croydon
(33300z5.) has been retorted from the Ophir claim— from
582 tons stone. The field is divided into two sections, the
Southern and the Northern. At one time the blank found
in the Highland Mary gave rise to a suspicion as to the
permanency of the lodes, hut developments elsewhere
have shown it to be a purely local disturbance.
* '* *
The gold mine is still Mount Morgan, which
returns upwards of 10,000ozs. monthly, and will probably
do something of the sort for a long time yet.
* * #
Like many a company in distress the share-
holders of the Central Blocks and the Barrier have
instructed their English representative “to cable any
negotiations for the sale of the property.” Remote hope.
* * *
Reported of the Nelligen Co, that it is intended
to increase the present battery of 10 head to 50. This is
either the outcome of newspaper mining or Victorian
enterprise. An additional 40 head means £7OOO or £BOOO,
* % #
Re Newcastle (N.S.W.) Coal Trust. There is
much likelihood of one or more of the large colleries
withdrawing from the “ vend ” —and therefore practically
from the Association.
* * »
The excitement at Neville, about eight miles
from Carcoar (N.S.W.), is premature. As yet scarcely a
claim (except the prospectors’) has found colour, and
many have bottomed “duffers.”
# * *
The payment of a fifth dividend of Is. in the £1
reduces the liabilities of the V.D.L. Bank to about
£450,000 —£507,000 having been paid off since the smash
in August, ’9l.
* * *
Big efforts are being made to put the Silver
Queen mine (Tas.), averred to he “the Bischoff of local
silver mining,” on its feet again. Arrangements have
been made for the erection of a concentrating plant which
is to start on ore at grass valued at £15,000.
• * *
The high rate charged in N.S.W. for the rail-
way carriage of machinery is a disability to the mining
industry. In Victoria the railway-rates are much lower,
and an especially low rate exists for *he conveyance of
second-hand plants.
* * #
The smelters which were running at Zeehan,
Tas., for a short time are both shut down in consequence
of their inability to secure ore. All the silver ore is being
bought up by the Queensland Smelting Co., which
oharteied a special vessel the other day for that purpose,
and a Hamburg Co. Both pay cash for the ore, which
sells up to £l7 10s. per ton.
* * *
Serpentine rock predominates on the Zeehan-
Dundas field. Does this in any way account for failures
in silver lodes ? The theory was advanced by some nearly
three years ago. The local population has much decreased
during the last few months, and the field presents a
similar appearance to the Day Dream (Barrier Ranges),
albeit the Zeehan smelters will yet run again. However,
no one can accurately say when, and some cold days are
ahead for the whole field.
* # *
The Poor Man’s, now called “ The Bethundra,”
is a claim on the old Ironbarks field, N.S.W. A tremen-
dous body of stone runs about 6 dwts. per ton—a
fairly good thing if worked in a big way, and another
example of how mining amateurs have to buy experience.
Somebody advised them to erect an “Elephant” battery,
big in name, but insignificant in structure. It batters
through with great wear-and-tear about 20 tons a week.
It helped to prove the value of the quartz, hut that might
have been done by crushing, say, 1000 tons, at the Golden
Gully battery four miles away. The Poor Man’s should
have got a heavy 20-head battery of its own.
# * *
The “ cold and clammy depositor ” is how they
describe him now in Melbourne when he wants his monev
back and can’t get it.
# # »
A certain N.S.W. member earned a reputation
at Hill End in the good old days of that field by deli-
berately jumping several of the best claims. After a heap
of trouble, during which he ran some big personal risks,
several of the owners of rich claims came to the conclusion
that there was “something ” in the now legislator’s jump-
ing, so the matter was compromised and the enterprising
one did well out of the deal.
# * *
The antiquated system of N.S.W. bail procedure
is conducive to infinite trouble. In a recent big case
eighteen business men had to daily attend the Police
Court to renew bail, the accused being locked up whilst
innumerable intricacies of detail were being attended to.
As if a continuing bond was not possible.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —The Mining Co. was
formed with insufficient capital several years agone to
work certain leases. After blundering along for a time it
became apparent that more money would have to he
raised, or the mine let on tribute. The latter alterna-
tive was adopted, and a tribute company was forth-
with formed which took the mine in hand and worked it
in a sort of way ever since. This occurred some six or
seven years ago, but did the directors of the former com-
pany cease to meet at certain intervals and draw certain
fat fees? Not at all. Once a fortnight they meet regu-
larly and divide a sum of between nine and ten sovs.
among those present. A full board always turns up
and the business it transacts is something like this: The
chairman, who is usually first to arrive, takes his allotted
seat, calls upon the secretary to read the minutes of the
previous meeting, signs the minute-book, and inquires
what business there is to transact. He is told that a
cheque is required for directors’ fees to he paid over at
next hoard meeting. The cheque is laboriously signed,
the money on the table is hilariously divided, and the
meeting adjourns! The directors’ names are—well, there
are five of ’em, all well known in Sydney.— Silver.
# * *
Cool cheek ! Two men were killed in the
Templestowe (Vic.) antimony mine, under conditions that
reflect much blame upon the company, and now the
directors appeal to the public for assistance for the rela-
tives of the dead men. A Melbourne evening paper’s
heartless account of this unhappy occurrence is a scandal
# * *
The reason the B. N.S.W. buys gold on same
conditions as Sydney Mint is because of the concession of
4d. per ounce which the mint allows on all parcels of over
5000ozs. ; this concession pays for their smelting opera-
tions.


They have all got ’em. What ?
Darlings.
Use Bathos Baking Powder.
GNUN
Never be without a G N U N Darling.
At Bondi you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Sterling value, G N U N Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
<l£
V.V
in
*
fd
f
df
BELT
df
d
PAMPHLETS’, ILLUSTRATIONS AND FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION
—TO—
FROST & SHIPHAM,
462, 474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
SOLE AGENTS FOE AUSTRALIA.
ts ADVICE FREE.
Personal Items.
Fitchefct writes rather better than Stead.
One of the defendants in the late Queens-
land Investment cases is breaking up fast.
David Syrne’s “ Modification of Organ-
isms ” has been getting some hard knocks from
the reviewers.
Somebody says he’d like to hear Sir ’Enery
Parkes address N.S.W. •Parliament on “the
treatment of refractory ores.”
John Donaldson, ex-leader of the Queens-
land Opposition, while a total abstainer from
stimulants, is a devoted slave to tobacco.
As it costs 3s. 3d. for a haiycut in Hong-
kong, Parkes should go to Hongkong to save
money. He only saves sixpence in Sydney.
G. H. Reid says that Burdekin “is the
only man whom the N.S.W. Opposition has wh°
is well off.” Reid evidently isn’t talking abou c
brains.
Joseph Vickery, of Sydney, who died on
August 30, aged 93 years, came to N.S.W. in ’33.
He was the father of Ebenezer Vickery, the man
of many dollars.
The leaderess of the N.S.W. Opposition,
Mrs. G. H. Reid, till lately was Miss Mary
Bromby, and is a niece of Canon Bromby, of
Hobart, Tasmania.
The popular Judge Bundey, of Adelaide,
began life in S.A. as a country storekeeper, and
his first experience of law was gained as clerk of
a provincial local court.
Charles Waite, who was the first white
baby born in Bong Bong, Berrima district,
N.S.W., 72 years ago, went bong-bong last week
at Wagra, near Albury.
The flags at the principal Sydney banks
and at the Exchange were half-masted when .Mr.
Jones died. The virtues of the deceased must
have run into at least five figures.
Bruce Smith is now the only N.S.W.
senator who does not draw his <£3oo a year from
the State Treasury. George Reid has got married.
You couldn’t say more in a volume.
Thomas Williams, senr., the supposedly
oldest man in West Australia, died at Northamp-
on, W.A., aged 101 years. Up to a few months
go he was still good for a 12-raile tramp.
“ Commander in Command of the Naval
Brigade” is how a Victorian dignitary notified
himself last week, rather suggesting the junior
reporter, with “ An occurrence occurred —”
A wit explained, during the lifetime of the
late Duke of Manchester, that the marriage
between the Marquis of Hartington and the
Duchess of Manchester “was postponed pending
the life of the late Duke.”
Ven. Archdeacon Dudley has died at Ran-
giora, Maoriland, aged 87 years. He was one of
the original “ Canterbury pilgrims ”—a colonising
crowd of Church of England communicants who
founded the town of Christchurch, Middle Island
(M.L.), in ’5O.
Ninian Melville, N.S.W. Chairman of
Committees, has threatened Joseph Symes with a
libel-action on account of certain statements pub-
lished in Symes’ Liberator in connection with the
Walker-Laseron shooting-case, under the heading
“Christian Rascality.”
Gladstone wound up his latest great speecli
by declaring that the Almighty would solve his
political difficulties. Whereupon a vile Tory
recalls the yarn about the voyager and the captain
a' sea : —Voyager Are we in danger?” Captain;
“We can only trust in God.” Voyager: “Oh,
has it come to that ?”
The Sultan’s harem costs £3,000,000
yearly. About 100 women leave every year, to
inarry, and each has <£7500 dowry. Yet the number
never falls below 300. Every official struggles to
get his daughters in, for each has ten servants, a
carriage and four, and the possibility of gaining
influence over the Sultan.
C. C. Kingston, Q.C., the always “coming
S.A. Premier,” suffers from obesity, and occa-
sionally walks over 20 miles on a Sunday to keep
the fat down. When Dash wood, now N. Terri-
tory Resident, lived at Willunga, Kingston used
to foot it from Adelaide to Dash wood’s residence,
mostly uphill for nearly 20 miles.
When Spurgeon died, some reckless
member of his congregation announced the fact by
an intimation posted on the door of the Taber-
nacle: “Our beloved pastor entered Heaven
at 11.15 last night.” Then some ruffian
posted another intimation below: “Heaven, 12
o’clock. Your beloved pastor not yet arrived.
Getting uneasy.— Peter.”
Miss C. H. Spence, of Adelaide, the
enthusiastic advocate of the Effective Voting
Reform, claims to be “a colonist of 1849.” No
attempt to conceal age here. Her brother was
once a bank-manager and then a legislative council-
lor, while he has been a Minister of the Crown —
though in all three capacities the sister would have
done better than he did.
Millionaire Tyson some years ago was
staying at a Brisbane club when late one night a
telegraph-messenger brought a Is. 2d. “collect”
message to him. He happened to be on the
verandah at the time, and when the message was
delivered to him the smallest change he had was
two single shillings. He gave one of them to the
boy and told him to call again for the twopence.
The boy called the following afternoon but Tyson
had gone up the Jine. He returned a fortnight
later and, calling in at the telegraph office, handed
in two pennies. “ I owe this to one of your boys,”
he said, with his slow, deliberate drawl.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
A certain deceased N.S.W. lawyer (or
rather advocate) politician, who died a few years
ago, while on circuit, was introduced to a black-
fellow, thus : “This is Mr. B . You know,
Jimmy—Mr. B , come alonga Sydney, Parlia-
ment man.” “Oh! me know him,” replied
Jimmy, “him and me once locked up longa
jug—being drunk.” The politician fled.
Inspector-General Fosbery has asked the
Victorian police to investigate the antecedents of
acertain now very prominentN.S. W, labour-leader,
and the D.’s are now on the job. The greatest pre-
cautions are being taken to keep the enquiry
secret, but the inquisitors can’t keep their dirty
work hidden if they try. What we would like to
know is—who is prompting the police? and will
they extend their investigations into the lives of
some of the Broken Hill directors ?
A flash youth who claimed to be a son of
Sir Wilfrid Lawson, and who was violently
boomed by the teetotal interest in Maoriland, has
got into trouble over valueless cheques or false
pretences, combined with unpaid grog-scores, and
proves to be the usual garden variety of impostor.
The person who feels maddest about him is the
teetotal editor who stated that it was impossible
to mistake him owing to the striking resemblance
between him and “ his illustrious” father.
Arthur, the unfortunate legatee against
whom the S.A. Public Trustee recently brought
an action for the recovery of certain property,
won his case, but, despite the award of costs by
the Chief Justice, has ruined himself in paying
lawyers’ bills. Now, the State, which instituted
the cash-absorbing action, although proved to
THE REASON.
DEADBEAT (inquiringly , to torn and ragged friend): “Dawgs?”
HIS FRIEND : “No! Got swep’ up in the street-sweeper.”
have been in the wrong, refuses to award any
compensation to its victim. Parliament should
take the matter up and let the citizens see that
the State can be absolutely just.
Byron Miller, formerly and now of Tas-
mania, while practising in Melbourne in the
interval, was constantly in hot water with the
Judges, who had a fearful “ down ”on him. _ Old
Justice Williams, the present Judge Williams’
father, was a notoriously lazy man. One day
Miller was laying down the law to a jury, Wil-
liams being apparently asleep—“ But that, gentle-
men,” maliciously remarked the learned counsel,
“ will be a question for his Honor, when he wakes
up.” “Quite so,” said Williams, opening his
eyes, “your speech would set anyone asleep.”
In knighting G. Republican Dibbs, Queen
Victoria “put aside the handsomely - mounted
drawing-room sword which was handed to her
when the Premier entered the room, and used the
strong military weapon hanging by the side of
General Byng. With her own hands, as he stood
before her, after obeying the command to ‘ Arise,
Sir George,’ she fastened on his breast the
insignia of the Order of St. Michael and St.
George. She inquired when he proposed leaving
London, and the Premier named the day of his
departure. He then retired from the audience-
chamber.” Sudden death ! The whole ceremony
“only lasted live minutes,” Destroyed in live
minutes ! It reminds us of the poor pup that we
saw poisoned with prussic acid the other day.
Only the other day, Mr. Thomas Walker,
M.P., of N.S. Wales, while drunk, accidentally
shot a poor parson with his revolver; now Mr.
Walker is on the lemonade-stump, howling
vigorously. “ When I lecture on Total Abstin-
ence,” says Thomas, “ I feel like an inspired man.
Verily the Walker’s curves are over-sharp. Under
the circumstances, he should have shut up awhile—
have observed, as it were, a period of mourning.
Brother Thomas may yet hope to shine as a Chris-
tian evangelist:—
Copy of letter received by Max O’Rell in
Brisbane ;
Max O’Rell, Esq. _ .
Sir,—Permit me t.o introduce to your notice the Bris-
bane Steam Laundry and to take the opportunity of in-
form mg' you that we do what a good establishment should
do—first-class work.
Shirt and collar dressing are among our specialities.
All classes of work, however, receive proper treatment.
While listening to your admirable lecture last evening
I thought your shirt’ caused you some trouble through
faulty dressing, not sitting as it certainly should, and
certainly not done up in first-class style. I therefore take
the liberty of suggesting a means whereby you may be
spared even the annoyance of a bad-sitting shirt—namely,
patronise the Brisbane Steam Laundry.—I am, Sir, your’s
obediently, GEO. FISH.—South Brisbane, August 16,180?.
A man was killed by a sausage-roll in
Ballarat one day last week. We have often heard
of the “ death roll.”
For Is. 3d. will be posted from The Bul-
letin Office, Sydney, to any Australasian address
a copy of The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” illustrated by Hop. and Phil. May ; or,
a copy of “Tales of the Convict System,”by “Price
Waning.” The cheaper edition of “A Golden
Shanty ”is now out of print; a cloth-bound copy
will be mailed to any Australian address for 2s.
Several S.A. legislators who advocated
most strongly a close season for kangaroos are
largely interested in squatting. Hunters must
now obtain permission from the squatter to shoot
or trap on the land during the close season. This
they get by handing over 30 per cent, of their
gross earnings, and agreeing to buy their stores at
the station. “To preserve our native fauna ” is
the excuse. Well, if so, why not let the State
have that “30 per cent. ?”
No longer spiritistic cuss,
No longer doubting Didymus,
No longer nohow, “ this-and-thus ”
Tom Walker 1
But sober as a dead remark ;
A bull’s-eye, rescued from the dark,
To light the path of G. D. G'ark—
Tom Walker !
He’ll chant us yet the dirge of ruin,
And point the way to Kingdom Come,
And pocket each collection thrum—
Tom Walker!
He’ll grow a halo 1 When he dies
The “ Sons of Temperance ” will rise
To glue the coppers on his eyes—
Tom Walker !
Cold coppers those, he’ll get, and not
The sort he once had—coppers hot ;
For, now, hot coppers he’s forgot—
Tom Walker !
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
The Murder in the Night.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Vagrant winds were full of music when he wooed;
her long ago,
But he murdered her one night, alas ! he mur-
dered her one night;
Oh, the winds, the winds sang gaily, blowing
blithely to and fro,
While he told her, while he sang her all his,
rapturous delight.
Lusty winds cried, singing : “ Love is everlasting,,
ever true,
Ever fair-faced, buoyant-hearted, eyes of radi-
ance, starry-bright!”
And he put his soul before her, humbly off’ring
tribute due !
But he murdered her one night, alas, he mur-
dered her one night !
Smiling spring came, and the budding of the-
flowers and the songs
Of the birds, and rush of myriad many-colouredl
wings in flight
Harmonised with the emotions with which Love
the lover throngs.
But he murdered her one night, alas ! he mur-
dered her one night !
Summer came and autumn followed, and the
changes they impart,
Rising, falling—thrilling, lulling sense' of hear-
ing, touch and sight,
Harmonised with raptures storming or in swoons
around his heart.
But he murdered her one night, alas, he
murdered her one night.
It was winter when he did it. Oh, the sun all day
was cold,
And the birds were weak of voice and heavj ■
feathered in their flight;
And the darkness up the valley, like a smoking
mountain, rolled,
And the night fell, and the murder, Oh, tin
murder in the night!
But one instant on the threshold stood he, looking
grimly back
At her body, and then holding in his soul wit!
all his might,
Out he went, his heart and brain enveloped in ;
thunder-wrack.
Oh, he murdered her that night, that black ant
bitter winter night!
THETA.
Thy Kingdom Come.
Cur Father which art in heaven.
Hallowed he Thy name,
Thy Kingdom owe.
Proclaim the message far and wide
The prayer of Jesus crucified ;
The hope in which He lived and diul —
Thy kingdom come.
Down from the far-off misty spheres;
Down through the centuries of years.
Its glory breaking through our tea's,
While all the trancfed silence hears
Thy kingdom come —
Thy will he done on earth.
As it is in heaven.
The son of God and man hath said,
He cannot love his God unseen,
Why pity from his heart hath driven,
And to bis brother cold hath been,
Give ns this day our daily bread.
My God ! and did that awful cry
Shock Mary’s home in Galilee ?
In youth, did Jesus learn to sigh,
“ Give, us this day our daily bread ''!
Long after, when alone He stood
And taught the hungry multitude
To trust in God—to seek for good,
He clinched his argument—with food ;
Give us this day our daily bread.
His followers through the cornfields pasie
And broke the Sabbath with their fast;
The Pharisees all stood aghast!
Our Brother turns his burning eyes—
“ Away with Pharisaic lies—
‘ Mercy, not sacrifice,’ ” He cries.
Give us this day our daily bread,
And forgive us our trespasses
As we forgive them that trespass against vs.
How long ! O, Saviour of the World, how long !
O, save us from the knowledge of our wrong,
O, save us from the evil powers that throng
About the living heart, where hope is dead.
And lead us not into temptation,
But deliver us from evil.— Amen.
DOWELL O’REILLY in CUMBERLAND (N.S.W.) ARGUS.
At Blayney (N.S.W.) a sporting party
recently killed 225 hares and handed them over
to the local C. of E. parson, “to be sold in aid of
the building fund.” In a hot climate like that of
Australia the habit of putting dead animals into the
collection-plate cannot be suppressed too vigor-
ously.
Baldness may bo prevented, and a thick growth
of hair stimulated, by the use of Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. This preparation also restores the natural
colour to gray hair, and renders it soft, pliant,
and glossy. |
Our readers can have teeth painlessly
extracted under nitrous-oxide gas. Cocaine (hyP°‘
dermic injection). Fee, from 2s. (jd. Full sets
gold medal artificial teeth, <£s. Mr. J. I. Marsha ,
Dental Surgeon, Sydney Areade (George ana
King-streets).


the best in !;' Se a " ip of s ' HNAm . It is
c lnv ‘gorator out.
When your nerves are had or you want bracing
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
Smoke G N IT N Darlings. Take no other.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
Sussex-street revels in G N U N Darlings.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Potts Pointers delight inGNUN Darlings.
Wolfe’s orders.
G N U N Darlings draw free and burn even.
Use Bathos Baking Powder.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
, (MERCHANT),
22 & 24; Clarence Street
(Comer Margaret Street),
S nr D 3ST IE IT.
Latest Dcsiffiis in
CARRIAGES, PHOTONS,
TRAY and CONCORD BUGGIES.
DOG CARTS, BUCKBOARDS,
WAGGONS, CARTS , HARNESS, ETC.,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Will cholera be the Federator ?
Woman Suffrage will be law in Maoriland
by next June.
Parkes got both his big titles from the
British Tory party.
N.S.W. public debt to date, £53,699,433
9s. 2d.; annual interest, <£2,050,828 Bs. Bd.
“No man no vote” cry the Tories. Of
course it is they who have to decide who is “no
man.”
Gladstone’s majority will not exceed 40.
But Palmerston led a Parliament for six years
with only 13.
“For some time past the people of this
community have been too well fed.” —Joseph
Abbott (N.S.W.).
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) district is repre-
sb iled in Parliament by three teetotallers—Fegan,
Melville and Walker.
Dear Bulletin, —The N.S.W. Labour-
Party should meet at once to reconsider the
question of single electorates.—P.
The letters K.C.M.G. after the name of
an Australian politician are a symbol of the power
of a title to Kill Character by Meretricious
Grande m
Mot by N.S.W. Acting-Premier Barton :
“ I decline to recognise that any ‘ political situa-
tion ’ exists. Anyhow, there will be no situation
for Mr. Reid.”
Hoolau, M.P. (Q.) : ‘‘lam now engaged
in a warfare at which I will keep going until I pull
up at the gaol or the halter.” Hominy verms
asphyxiation.
There was a slight earthquake at Cooma,
N.S.W., lately. Jeanneret, M.P., had just been
addressing his constituents thereabout. No wonder
the earth yawned.
It is stated to be impossible to find a jury
in the Northern Territory that will bring in a
verdict of guilty against a white man for the
murder of a Chinaman.
Afraid of the Brisbane Civil Service vote,
and believing he can beat Labour-member Hall,
MTbvraith will probably contest Bundaberg at
the Queensland general election.
“ We have been told over and over again
that we have manhood suffrage in N. S. Wales,
but the point is this : One man lias twice as much
manhood suffrage as another.”— Traill, M.P.
“Put yourselves in the brewer’s place,”
pleaded a Victorian M.P. in opposing the beer
tax. And about a score of hon. members drew
their sleeves across their lips and sighed enviously.
The constant scream of the Argus is that
the Vic. Government is dominated by Lygon-
street (Trades Hall) influence. That Collins-
street is envious of Lygon-street is a sign of the
times.
Considering the eternal racket about the
appointment of Js.P. in N.S.W., wouldn’t it be
the simplest and cheapest way to appoint every-
body a J.P. at once, and thus settle the question
in one act ?
It is said that Hall, the Labour-member for
Bundaberg, Q., means to revenge himself upon
His traducers by bringing in a measure to make
provision for an Inebriate Asylum in connection
with the House of Assembly.
Parkes : “We never hear of the British
Cabinet sitting till 11 o’clock at night, or till
ft, o v>°— ' n morning; and the reason is that
the British Cabinet do not smoke cigars, and they
do not indulge in any conviviality.”
In the United States, since the introduc
tion of the M'Kinley tariff, the price of steel ha
fallen from 65d01. to 42d01. per ton. And yet the
r oreign-trade press still wails about how Protec-
tion increases the cost of the “ necessaries of life.”
John Haynes points out that private land
" e ?fi! n a h nosfc every running stream in N. S. W.,
ana that State irrigation cannot be carried out
!! " 0 ?{ benefiting vast areas of private land,
men the betterment policy must be applied to
irrigation.
A Southern member of Parliament is charged
with having been promised 10 per cent, on any
svnrT S ? bsidy be , coi:dd obtain for a certain
n „ . with having taken commission
, a ,., obt he collected from Government for his
constituents.
fnbP 16 r olling-pin-eyed Chinese, still plenti-
is L! ’ nt(J . Australia. Their side-entrance
Chino Tasmania, which province has only a
rpsf .„-f. e PoB-tax, but no limiting provision that
lire inn. g tle mnn ber of Chinese passengers to a
proportion per tonnage.
in Svd° rC^n ® 1° Japanese commissioners now
tosnniu ey ’ , Japanese Government is prepared
a gricuftm.; a , mos k a ny .number of highly skilled
kind nv.u USts to an y suitable country guaranteeing
shillino- f P ro l )0r treatment at a rate of from one
truing to two shillings per day.
waiW°? ai i 9 0nser vatives in Opposition are
man ” wt.o m the Merest the “ poor working
Perfidv n/Ii Pretend, is overwhelmed by the
Tory idoo • N ove rnment in taxing his beer. The
thirst in' If ' at 10 “ P°re worrukin’ malm’s ”
cherishing the 0n y as P ira tion he has worth
tended Pa r 'i l i eader , 9 lasse y (Q-) has not at-
standinc rl * amen t since the passing of Griffith’s
f^ er u. practically forbidding Labour-
should L P .<1! 011 a f ront cross-bench. There
“Sneak.l anot ier sfc anding-order prohibiting the
jßSftLr beta ‘
year eerm Government have this
blankets f° lmsed by serving out only half-sized
Bon Snow is~ any not l * ie aborigines, whose
Cordam our Krazy Kaween,
B°°d our Nobbier Kaween 1
Ji aal git it blankit! ”
Cohen, M.P., ex-May or of Adelaide (who
once moved in the Assembly in favour of elective
governors) says he wishes the Queen would write
him an autograph letter asking him to accept a
knighthood so that he might show Australia in
what a dignified fashion these baubles can be
refused by a true democrat.
Little four-feet-six Isidore Lissner, mem-
ber for Kennedy, N.Q., candidly confessed that
he voted against the flour-tax because, if he hadn’t,
he would be rejected at next election. Lissner
might have chanced it; he is one of the has-beens
of the Charters Towers goldfield, which now looks
to Labour-men as its future hope.
Eyeglass Reid denounces the programme
of the Dibbs Government (N.S.W) as being com-
posed of the “ legislative leavings ”of past
ministries. Considering that the Foreign-trade
party has left pretty nearly everything for 30 years
past till the province is full of “leavings” the eye-
glassed gentleman is too particular.
The following Soudan slush is sung by the
public-school children of N.S.W. as the second
verse of “God Save the Queen” :
For Sunny New South Wales
Whatever foe assails—our swords are keen.
And should our fathers’ land in dire distress e’er stand
We’ll join with heart and hand to save our Queen.
The (newly-knighted) N.S.W. Speaker, Sir
Joseph Abbott (who has utterly discarded the
short black clay pipe he used to smoke in public),
is understood to regard as “a calamity” the
Colonial-Office decision maintaining the right of
the Ballance (M.L.) Ministry to swamp the anti-
democratic nominee Legislative Council.
The rescuers at the awful Bridgend colliery
disaster “had to crawl on their bellies to escape
breathing the afterdamp,” and the terror of death
brooded over them all the time. What a blessing
it is to democracy that Queen Victoria wouldn’t
dream of knighting those chivalrous heroes ! So
long as she sticks to Dibbses and Renwicks and
things like that, the progress of Republicanism is
assured.
The new House
of Commons “is as
full as usual of bores
and self-seekers. It
contains over a hun-
dred colonels and
Army men—the paid
servants of the nation
sitting in judgment
upon their masters—
and nearly a hundred
and fifty barristers,
whose motives in
soliciting the suff rages
of their fellow-citizens
it is not difficult to
guess. Then there
are thirty-four sor«
and brothers of peers,
another important
class of detrimentals.
Compare with these,
figures the amount of
practical representa-
tion afforded by
farmers and agricul-
turists, ten ; colliery
proprietors, fifteen ;
merchants, twenty-
five ; and manufac-
t rers, fifty-seven.”
“Many news-
papers, as well as Mr.
Labouchere’s col-
leagues in the clubs,
condemn the attitude
he has taken up,”
says the cable. Lovely
truism. But here is
the other part of it,
left uncabled: “Many
newspapers and Mr.
Labouchere’s radical
constituents, and the
democracy of England
in general, heartily
approve Mr. Labou-
chere’s attitude.” The
clubs ! The Jacobin
Club will be a fact
in England ere long ;
then Tory newspaper-
correspondents won’t
be so fond of quot-
ing the opinions of
the clubs.
“Up to the pre-
sent time the (Dibbs)
Ministry has no pro-
tective policy. The
tariff is not really a
Protectionist one.
Our friends oppo-
site believe in purchasing from the cheapest
market, which means that, while they object to
black or slave labour, they are in favour of pur-
chasing the produce of that labour.”— W. H.
Traill, M.P. for South Sydney.
Sample of Freetrade logic :
Mr. J. H. Young, M.P., said that the duty of £1 per ton
on flour had raised the price of bread by Ad. the loaf, so
that for every £1 the protective duty" put into the
Treasury it took £3 out of the people’s pocket.
“It ” does nothing of the kind. If “it ” accepts
£l, “it ” takes that sum only. The bakers take
the other ; not “it.”
The S.A. Temperance Alliance, which
claims to have had a big influence in putting
Holder and Cockburn into office, professes great
astonishment and indignation at the Ministerial
proposal to establish a depot in London for the
sale of genuine S.A. wines. As The Bulletin
has often pointed out, Prohibition means the
rooting up of the vineyards of Australasia.
A. Brown, M.L.C. (N.S.W.) : “The curse
of the province is to have to depend on 'the
Central Government for everythingyet he hopes
that the Local Government Bill will not permit
local bodies to tax to the extent of 2s. (id. in the.£,
but only as far as Is. in the £ — i.e., the people
must look to the local bodies to the extent of Is.,
but must still depend on the central Government
for the other Is. (Id., if necessary. Very con-
vincing.
Premier Shiels has practically declared that
his Government objects to any modification of the
law of newspaper libel in Victoria. “ I under-
stand you want the English pro'Lions,” said
Shiels to the journalists’ deputation last week. It
was admitted that local ambition had soared in
the direction mentioned. Then Shiels coldly in-
sinuated that Victorian character required more
protection from public comment than was de-
manded by the law of “the dear, old mother
country,” and the deputation crawled away on
all-fours.
D’Akuv Brothers, Brokers, Scott Chambers,
0(1 Pitt-street, Sydney.
James Smith suggests in the Argus that
the Victorian Government should publish an
annual balance-sheet and advertise same in big
English papers for the gratification of the British
investor. “Like any other big trading concern,”
says J.S. The Premier Permanent Building
Society, the Mercantile Bank, and the Australian
Banking Co., for instance. When James’ pro-
position is acted upon, Australian degradation
will be about completed,
A stock Freetrade argument is that the
adoption of a scientific rule of Protection results in
over-production and consequent ruination; yet
that Freetrade over-importation is always inexor-
ably prevented by the cast-iron law of “supply
and demand.” Yet this cast-iron law is itself so
inherently Freetrade in principle that it never by
any chance operates against over-production.
Therefore, the Freetrader’s rump axiom should be
—Produce nothing, but import everything.
“ One individual of socialistic tendencies
who began haranguing the crowd prescribed State
socialism as the only panacea, while another
thought that little or no distress would exist if
they could only get the Mining on Private Pro-
perty Bill made law. The gentleman of the
socialistic sentiments also expressed the opinion
that,” &c., &c. This is the tone adopted by the
Australian Star, which originally went into busi-
ness as a democratic paper.
The 16 founders of the bogus “National
Defence ” (i.e., Tory, plural-vote) League of S. A.
are a set of squatters, millionaires, and gilded
renegades from Radicalism. Included are the
president of the S.A. Employers’and Pastoralists’
Unions and a person whom Bartlett, M.P., once
described in the Assembly as “the son of a land-
shark.” And so with the Victorian, N.S. Wales,
and Queensland “National” and bogus-Patriotic
Leagues—as witness the composition of the gang
which lately deputationised Acting - Premier
Barton.
When the Queensland transcontinental
railway is built with cheap labour on the land-
grant plan, and then the cheap labour is turned loose
THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT LITERARY STYLE.
DE BROWN : “Now there goes a man noted for his finished sentences.”
DE JONES: “Indeed? A novelist?”
DE BROWN : “No; an ex-convict.”
to flood the market, the syndicate can recoup all
its outlay by selling its land at 4s. per acre, and
then possess a line which will cost it absolutely
nothing. On the other hand, if it sells its grant
at 12s. an acre, which is much more probable, it
will pay a dividend of 200 per cent, to begin with,
and will get its great railway gratis into the
bargain. A railway which costs nothing can
always pay a dividend. Next, the syndicate
will sell its line to the State, by means of
vigorous log-rolling, at twice its value, and pay
another 200 per cent, dividend, and retire from
the business, and the State will struggle desper-
ately for a generation or two to realise 1 per cent,
on the inflated value of its property, and will
make up the deficiency out of the Treasury. Also,
the syndicate will retain the mineral deposits on
its grant, and float them at its leisure on the
London market, and pay several hundred more
per cent. ; and when the mines don’t pan out as
expected, there will be articles in the British
papers about the unreliable nature of Austra-
lian investments, and the necessity for cheap
labour.
The following figures from the Victorian
census are worth considering. In 1881 there were
42,000 more men than women in the province, but
all through the decade women appear to have
grown scarcer in proportion to the total popula-
tion, and in 1891, men were 56,000 ahead. The
entire population increased about 33 per cent,
in ten years, but parsons show an advance of 100
per cent.; lawyers, 66 per cent. ; physicians,
surgeons, druggists, &c., about 120 per cent. ;
literary men, 280 per cent.; “scientific persons.”
90 per cent. ; artists, 100 per cent. ; musicians, 80
per cent. ; actors, 90 per cent. ; servants, flunkeys,
&c., 50 per cent.; merchants, bankers, traders,
and their subordinates, 65 per cent. ; messengers
and porters, 130 per cent. ; engaged in bossing the
Government, 60 per cent.; engaged in loafing pn
the community as “ persons of independent
means,” 48^ per cent.; making and selling in-
toxicants. 85 per cent. In other words, in almost
every occupation where a man can wear a shiny
hat and a high collar, and live in a city, and avoid
the necessity for soiling his hands, the numbers
engaged have increased about twice as fast as the
mass of the population. Another 10 years of
this sort of prosperity ought to make Victoria
bankrupt.
Graham Berry says that a tax on the un-
improved value of Victorian land “ might come
yet v
O ! crafty observation
By a diplomatic man !
The people need taxation
On a patriotic plan ;
That election promise golden
He will carefully forget.
But he fences, does the old ’un,
With—“ It might come gel.”
It hasn’t come at present,
But he wishes to be pleasant,
So he keeps ’em quite quiescent
With—“ It might come yet.”
Build no vain expectation
On an exigental cry
With a mental reservation—
“ When the pigs begin to fly ; ”
For the squatter on the station
Whistles gaily, you can bet,
While the knight consoles the nation
With—“ It might come yet.”
’Stead of saying, “ Now, or never !”
Graham Berry, being clever,
Means to humbug them forever
With—" It might come yet.”
Chicago Sentinel having stated that “ nine
men out of ten were better without stimulants,’
N.Y. Voice points out that each man thinks he
is the tenth, and that consequently nine out of ten
go under.
A cattle-steamer from Port Darwin to
Singapore called at Batavia recently to land IOC
head. Asked how he intended taking delivery
the dealer calmly replied that he would send 100
coolies to lead them away.
The Duchess of Fife is said to be the only
junior member of the Royal Family who has
ridden in the Queen’s state coach. She got into
the gilded atrocity on her wedding morning, and
has suffered bad health ever since.
Of John Burns a little London weekly
says that “If he is not an Englishman, he is a
Scotchman, and therefore perfectly unobjectionable
in point of nationality.” It goes”without saying
that such a rag finds Burns an objectionable
person in every other respect.
A speech of the times: “Gentlemen, I
always pay what I owe. If I owe a man a pound,
I pay him. If I cannot pay a pound, I pay ten
shillings; if I cannot pay ten shillings, I pay five ;
if I cannot pay five shillings, I pay half-a-crown ;
if I cannot pay half-a-crown, I don’t pay at all.”—
Condensed from N.Q. Register.
Once upon a time some repairs or addi-
tions had to be carried out at the gaol hospital,
Darlinghurst. There was a large heap of fine sand
close by. Prisoners on parade for medicine noted
with much interest that there were distinct im-
pressions of feminine feet on the tell-tale mound,
and two feet away was the print of a rifle. Puzzle:
Find the warder. “Half-past 11 o'clock, and all’s
well.” Nothing can remove from the minds of the
Darlinghurst Debating Society that a female
warder had been out the previous night discussing
federation with her Marcellus.
A fact, well-known to physicians and all
who have studied the causes of disease, is that
inaction of the liver and kidneys gives rise to more
constitutional disturbance than all other causes
put together. Inaction of these organs results in
retention of the waste products and effete matter
in the various valves, ducts, and glands of the
digestive apparatus and excretory channels, where
it becomes impacted. The liver is the organ
destined to secrete a natural cathartic fluid, called
bile, intended to carry off from the system all
waste, poisonous, and worthless material by its
natural excretive action. Headaches, Con-
stipation, Aching Limbs, Languor, Tired Feel-
ings, Backache, Costiveness, Painful Mictura-
tion, Giddiness, Indigestion, &c., are all signs
of a torpid liver, and serious disease will set in if
the digestive and eliminative organs do not
properly perform their several functions. Dr.
Fletcher’s Pills are prepared on a scientific
principle to prevent impaction of the hmpatio
glands, &c. They act on the only rational
principle of curing and preventing disease, do not
gripe or purge, but stimulate the organs to per-
form their allotted duties, increasing the secretion
of bile, which evacuates and invigorates the
clogged passages, restoring a healthy action and
condition without the annoyance, discomfort, and
pain of griping and purging. Patients are re-
quested to get the genuine Dr. Fletcher’s Pills
and refuse all substitutes. All dealers stock
them; or post free for 13 penny stamps from F.
M. Clements, Newtown, Sydney.
It is most convenient to have a hrst-class
room near tram stopping places, where ladies
can rest themselves, and if they choose, have a
good cup of tea, or other refreshments. We
understand the Country Milk Co.’s “Cascade,”
80 and 82 Elizabeth-street, near King-street, is
just the place; it is certainly the largest and best-
conducted room in Sydney, and is getting quite
the fashionable resort for afternoon tea. We also
understand that ladies who so desire can have
parcels sent there, so that they can call for them
just before taking the tram for home.*


“London, Monday.—Rev. Dr. Paton, the Presbyterian missionary,.says thah
40,000 cannibals in the South Sea Islands are ready to receive the Gospel, and ara
even pleading for it, but that the Queensland labour recruiters will hinder the work
of civilising these people, and'at the same time depopulate the Islands.”— Cable.
It’s a nice question whether Rum combined with true Religion would not
depopulate an island sooner than slavery. We are betting on Rum and Religion.
, - Charles Ryley is about
' — ~ to take his leave of
Australia, and Bob-cab B shop Smith will
again have the field to himself in the matter
of legs.
A SILVER LINING.
Ist Larrikin : “ Look-a-’ere, Snorty, I heap
the blanky toils are a-goin’ to isterdqpce
the blanky treadmill to put deaown lar’-
kinism.”
2nd Ditto ; “ Well, blanky well let ’em. If»
'll be a blanky good chance to get yer legs
.in condition for the blanky Bot’ny 'Audi*
cap. D’ye see f
That testimonial to Commissioner Eddy somehow reminds one of
’•Vie-greasing-a-fat-pig fable.
’ J TII aT RUSSIAN SPY EPISODE.
Russian Party {explaining to the police): Iskowsky popshotoff
pforfunsky.”
Constable (who has his eye upon him ): “ See here* none o’ yer lang-
widge. Nobody ain’t allowed to photograph them works—they
ain’t strong enough to stand it.”
Not speaking to each other now. Hadn’t they
better go a little further and not “ epeak ” at all 7
OUR SPECIAL MESSAGE.
Mr. Gladstone was recently attacked by an infuriated cow of Tory principles. With naurl-abic presence o£
jnind the G.O.M. climbed over hia shirt-collar and escaped.
A RIVAL TO O. R. DIBBS.
fAn old “ lady of colour” has travelled all the way from Liberia on a “ mission'
of her own to Queen Victoria. J
Hu Majesty'; “I’m very soiry, but I don’t really see my Way to make you
a K..C.M.0."
Harmony no longer prevails in the Salvation
Army. The warriors are laying down their arms, aitd
soon it may be said that Napoleon’s life at St. Helena
was a mad revel compared with the departed glory of
“ General ” Booth.
N
i 4k 41' 4‘
AxP cP . cP
*<?
# V vV
v cP
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


//eo* Co/ : '3" m T.T7 3or<gocU Sc r 'cf if- wo& y/»e
'/ S ' ,/, S/‘ tfr>->G />e Aac/ yt/k//c/y
/aAen /OOr°f /n //tc iOfrnyS
c/&sr> on s //*<3’VVo/7«i>
Pi e yen') sr> cor>c/u s to/** J
f 4/yC/*<?sseo / cy/nton
cf/~ e, O/- sr?y ia->o %
<f><s//~//?6> -/©& /•<^yoec7 £ o^/<? //
" 77$ "pcs/Y/cn <3 //) e G'oy/~- /, cue rfa
Q/~tz i/s> s u /' 'ta/ft/e. // /
/'os % ct //O om o *?/'// // //
(A)? sj,k/ s'
df
d;
3 typyOOSe //e/=(fs no uroy
6y fAj/sc/-) ZZjey CCs/o Z/?e Z's* OUS So
/ . / Jum "?
/O ) C Ak not. . , «/<? n /Jk
V // ' /
| oZs Z~ss c/& P/£
y o
PoZ/sse /so c/osZry,
Vle/ses* ''
~T' 6 <? St/ko^bon
a / /uu a y
c cV/ v S
/? /c/ o *"
<///e
\ ~L_crc/y £oc\ I
* c 77)G ST)iniQ-fet* days 'a>///y o/j yo/e.p £, e
° c/ocvn // y*)a//?/- //£ e />ooy% cjne/
//j<Sn 00// or/ • //£,?
«5 /j Or <J <S S 7 <s O'/i/y Or// c/**oujy? e. c/
6vt //f&re /«/*- **
f former To meshes* u//io /* W/f/y oof
\ e>V/c c/c yot, /,\e P
' /f)as6<?r»J Vo o f'V ''
//'fyr/e* 0 / po/* c/o/s / -//loo&h/ yoo <aj c/ m p
' or orc/'Oory /^<?S5(?/?0<?-»
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
TS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note —These allotments are in selected positions.
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
‘‘There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
309 Pitt-streefc, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Omen:
ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and origina
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
Wolfe's Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
ITse Batho’b Baking Powder.
We’d better buy G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL'S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
The Wake of Way Key.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It took about 3000 Chinamen and 11,000
Europeans to ship off from Sydney to China
.£70,000-worth of departed mandarin, and to frank
his spirit to the Confucian Somewhere—or an
average of 1201 b. weight of mourning manhood to
each £5 which the defunct had left behind him.
The deceased was Mr. Way Key, late Chinese
merchant, of Sydney and Hongkong, a Mandarin
of the Order of Gaum Shang, or Gold Button.
This sort of Mandarin is only a kind of C.M.G.
among Chinamen, and not so elevated in rank as
the well-known Mr. Mac Tart, of Sydney, who is
a Mandarin of the Fifth Button, or “allee same
Sir Quong Tart.”
Way Key, having been a man of “thrift,” and
being thus able to hire both men and angels, was
despatched to China long before his “ too solid
flesh could melt,” instead of having to wait until
his bones bleached out of their surroundings, as is
the case with poor Chinamen who still preserve
their pigtails, and are qualified for a Chinese
cemetery. Which is another proof of the justice
of a second vote for “thrift.”
John Chinaman, being a thorough man of busi-
ness, set apart the natural Christian holiday,
Sunday, as the day for putting through the
patient spook of the dead man, who, from his
portrait, was a fat Tartar monk addicted to wear-
ing a blue blouse and a Scotch cap. Sir Quong
M’Tart superintended the ceremonies, and did all
that .£lOOO or so could do towards tranquillising
the future of a distinguished fellow-countryman.
# * #
George-sfcreet North began to be lined
with crowds of cleaned-up Chinese and more or
less dirty Europeans from about 1 p.m., the pro-
cession towards Confucius having been timed to
start punctually at 2 o’clock. Pushing one’s way
through a dense crowd of gabbling and grinning
Chinkies of all shades of yellow and all styles of
costume, from the swell in broadcloth and bell-
topper, to the coolie in dungaree and wooden
shoes; forcing a passage into the Way Key shop
and into the burrow behind, with eyes tingling
from the smoke of a hundred cigars, several scores
of pipes, and some fuming braziers of burning
incense; following the shining new plug-hat of the
gallant Mac Tart as he roared out gibberish that
channelled a passage in the tightest of aromatic
squeezes, one found one’s-self in a commercial den
decked out in the hallowed trappings of a foreign
sanctuary. The wake was in full swing. The heavy
coffin of polished cedar, with silver handles, was
slightly enthroned in a recess. Its lid bore a
costly wreath from Mr. and Mrs. Quong Tart.
Devout Chinamen came and “ worshipped ” by
prostrating themselves on all-fours and banging
their foreheads to the ground, from three times to
seven, according to the immediate fervour of their
grief. A sudden bustle announced the 1 entrance
of a mourner who was a “ personage ” —no less
than the grandson and chief heir of the remains.
He, as the chiefest among the mourners, wore
that holiest of Chinese funeral attire, brown hol-
land; the next lot of relatives were encased in
bed-gowns and cook’s-caps of pure white calico.
The grandson’s face was buried during the four
weary hours of the ceremony in his hands, which
were themselves hidden in overlong brown-holland
sleeves. His long, unplaited queue lay like a
horse’s-tail adown his back. At this part of the
worship he flopped himself prone in a corner and
remained as one whispering secrets deep into the
cellar. The spectators chatted gaily, smoked
furiously, laughed, spat, and emitted a blend of
odours that remained afterwards a decided
memory. The sweetest thing in there was pro-
bably the corpse.
Holy candles burned, incense puffed, and the
Rev. Young Choy conducted impressive services
under a fire of chatter like to that of holiday-
making apes. It was a soul-cheering revival.
In the front shop, Chinamen of all grades pre-
sented themselves for crape and one Manilla
cigar apiece, as a token of their “ deep sympathy”
with the illustrious dead. A Bulletin man (not
a Chinaman, by the way), being introduced by
Sir Q. M’Tart as a Mandarin of Six Tales, got
six cigars that kept their own secret as to whether
they had or had not paid Customs duties.
* # #
The procession was better than a circus.
It bossed the traffic, which had to move around
into by-ways. There were two brass bands - the
Balmain Premier band for’ard, and the Naval
Volunteer Artillery band aft—and both blasted
the “Dead March in Saul ” for the special benefit
of the listening Chinese angels. Some 70 white
trash were hired for banner-holding, and carrying
along various quaint emblems of condolence, it
being considered infra dig. for any Chinamen to
do any hard funeral labour in a land of Caucasian
coolies. The only appurtenance which the unholy
hands of the whites were not allowed to touch
was the incense-stand, or altar, with a mysterious
Joss somewhere on its shelves; this article was
too holy for anybody but a pure and undefiled
pigtail to handle. It was the Way Key Ark.
There were some eight or ten banners of
gorgeous backgrounds and elaborate ornamenta-
tions in startling relief—vertical lines of hiero-
glyphics telling to the initiated the names of
the donors, and their sentiments about, and
wishes for, the deceased. For instance, one batch
of sympathisers wished —“ May his soul allee same
soar up alonga good place likee bird to Heaven.”
Another lot vowed —“Sposee we fill ocean allee
way China with cly-cly, no leplesent lessee so good
a man !” Others acknowledged his virtues and
good example— “ Good man, pay evelybody
twenty silling in the pong ; not likee logue longa
bogus bank!”—or hoped he’d rest well, tanta-
mount to the Christian “ R.1.P.,” in fact.
The herald of the procession was a Chinaman
between two European hirelings bearing aloft
broad, black fans ; this Chinaman scattered at
intervals circular discs of paper, perforated with
to represent Chinese money. This scattering
was “allee same pay his passage longa load to
Heaven.” The street arabs scrambled for the
papers, and clapped them on their faces mask-
wise, like young clowns. More hireling weepers
preceded the for’ard band, and then came the
banners, intervalled by mobs of mixed breeds of
pedestrians. A table with a what-not sort of
mantel-back, and its shelves decorated with
two fat holy candles, each about the size
of a bank - ledger, skull - bashing ruler,
and decorated wedding-cake fashion, was also
humped along by two European coolies; after
which the holy altar and its Chinese attendants.
The oil-portrait of the dead man beamed next in
procession, followed by a man fanning his spirit
into coolness on the sultry journey to the peaceful
land symbolised byasucceedingcanopy. Acarriage-
full of lilies-of-the-valley wreaths, with a cupola
surmounted by a crown, was a little ahead of a
six-horse hearse trapped with all the Christian
barbarisms of nodding plumes and dismal fixings.
It took five Caucasian pall-bearers to do justice to
the dead Chinaman’s gold.
Immediately after the hearse came the chief
mourner, stumbling with violent, brown-holland
grief, and having to be guided and lifted along by
two plebeian Chows in coarse dresses of something
that looked like sacking. Mourning coaches, open
carriages, cabs, &c., to the number of a couple of
hundreds, the quarterdeck band, and straggling
pedestrians to many thousands, whooped up the
rear.
By stoppages of a few seconds and lowering of
banners, “respects” were paid to the General
Post-office, the Town Hall, St. Andrew’s
Cathedral, the Centenary Hall, St. Philip’s
Church, and “Dr. Lang’s” Church. A wealthy
defunct Chinaman is the politest person in the
world.
* * *
Down at Smith’s Wharf, the crush was
pulverising. In a big cargo-shed, a picnic-table
was laid with prog and potables—a whole baked
sucking-pig, a whole baked hog, a whole baked
lamb, fowls, rice, fruits, sweetmeats, and wine.
GOVERNMENT-HOUSE HUNTING.
PINKGN : “Going to the hunt to-day?”
JONES: “No; haven’t got a jumper.”
PINKUN: “You don’t want a jumper; the Governor’s coming out, and all the panels are
slipped.”
The whatnot of wax-candles was erected in front
of this, with the altar and Joss in its front, and,
upon a square of praying-carpet, the Chinese
adorers came, several at a time, to flop, to ground
their brows, to curtsey, to swing arms and clasp
hands, to kiss “good-bye,” and, generally, to take
leave of the remains with pantomimic fulness.
The brown-hollander came out very strong here
again, flanked by the posse of bedgowns in cook’s-
caps, and vis-a-vis with the female mourners also
hidden in white. Every prostrating Chinaman
carefully uncoiled his pigtail before shaking hands
with the soul of the deceased in front of the flaring
candles and the incense-puffing Joss.
Suddenly, a Chinese performer commenced a
queer nasal chant, the chief refrain of which
appeared to be something like—“ Calf soup ! ”
ordered at least a score of times. Attendants
passed along various items of food, which were
“ blessed ” and offered to the evil spirits who lurk
in the side caves along the route to the Confucian
Paradise, as bribes to induce them to let Way
Key pass on without paying further poll-tax.
Also, someof theprovender was to sustain Way Key
during his journey, in the intervals of the punkah
business. That is to say, his ghost accepted the
ghost of the rations, while his devout mourners
demolished the reality after the remaining cere-
monies.
These were few. The coffin and banners were
swung into the main-hold of the steamer Tsinan,
the brown-hollander and his calico comrades
descended after and “ worshipped ” a “ positively-
last ” farewell, the band gave another blast from
the “Dead March in Saul,” and Way Key was
battened over. There were five Chinese pastors
to boss the religious rites ; four general managers,
Mac Tart being the chief ; four chief mourners in
brown holland —the bowed-down grandson, two
ladies and a youngster; and some fourteen other
special mourners in white calico bedgowns. At
latest accounts, Way Key was understood to be
cool and comfortable, and doing well. There is
to be a bigger bobbery when the corpse lands in
China. His immediate relatives are proud people
to day, and Quong Tart is a first-class showman.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
Society
It is decidedly funny to find a morning
paper congratulating Sydney on the “fact, that
by reason of her superior sanitary arrangements
she would probably suffer much less from cholera
than Melbourne. It is in the lodging-house that
cholera generally gets its first hold, and there is
not a single room in any place of the sort in Mel-
bourne which is not regularly and rigidly in-
spected to see that it is clean, wholesome, and
occupied by no more than the number of persons
proportionate to its cubic space. If there is any
such regulation in Sydney it is entirely dis-
regarded. It’s only the outside of the platter
which is clean in the City of the Beautiful Har-
bour.
# * *
Padded cholera horror “cabled from
Hamburg ” to a Sydney evening paper :
The shrieks and groans of the dying and the stifling
atmosphere of the crowded hospitals are frightful. The
bodies of men, women, and children are piled in heaps
awaiting burial.
The Bulletin (remembering that dying cholera
victims die in collapse, and don’t shriek at all)
stops to add a few details which the evening
horror-monger has omitted. The yells of the
dead are fearful to listen to. An unknown mis-
creant has poisoned all the physic. Troops of
wild dogs have rushed the hospitals to devour
the dead bodies, and are only kept at bay by
having jars of sulphuric acid shot at them out of
heavy siege-guns. A prominent doctor has gone
mad, and is playing the fiddle on top of a pile of
corpses, and singing fragments of opera in a high,
cracked voice; and a deranged physician is
travelling naked through the streets with a
burning torch shrieking, “ Yet 40 days and Ham-
burg shall be destroyed!” Several insolvent
land-banks are staving off their depositors by
tying deceased cholera patients to the counter.
Pieces of a defunct politician are alleged to have
been discovered in a sausage-shop, and the pro-
prietor dropped down dead just as the mob rushed
his establishment. Eight insurance offices have
closed up owing to their losses, and the managers
have all hanged themselves in a restaurant. The
city is on fire in 1(57 places, and a mad bull with
an infant impaled on its horns pervades the prin-
cipal thoroughfare. The ghosts of the dead go
through the streets at night, each one with his
tombstone under his arm, and carry off the people
they meet, none of whom are ever heard of again.
Forty dead bodies have been found in the city
water-supply, and a cranky patient is sitting on
top of the cathedral spire. Further details are
expected.
# # #
That able man, Dr. Gresswcll, of Mel-
bourne Board of Health, avers that cholera is
almost certain to reach Australia per mail-matter,
Just as the influenza crossed the briny in a batch of
infected British correspondence.
• # •
The late Mrs. Deeming is to have a
gorgeous tombstone, erected by public subscrip-
tion, in Melbourne cemetery. There will be over
hnlf-a-ton of stone in this memorial, and it will
stand three yards high, with the usual broken
column on top, and the customary wreath, and
the drooping figure with folded wings watching in
silent, solemn expectancy over the departed. Yet
Mrs. Deeming did nothing that was calculated to
arouse public enthusiasm—except die, and she
would have done that in any case. If she had
postponed dying, then in all probability plumber
Deeming would have contracted lead-poisoning or
delirium tremens some day, and his wife would
have gone out sewing for a livelihood, and perished
gradually through making shirts at 3s. (id. a dozen,
and then she wouldn’t have had any monument •
and her husband would have wound up his miser-
able career in an hospital without any spiritual
consolation worth speaking of, instead of being
rushed by squadrons of excited pastors all anxious
to save his soul, and being hanged at last in the
sure and certain hope of a blessed resurrection.
When one looks at the matter carefully, and con-
siders the subscription, and the big monument,
and the cigars Deeming had in gaol, and the
advertisement, and the Irish lawyer with blue
eyes and a brogue and lovelocks on his forehead,
and the resurrection, and the fact that Mr. and
Mrs. D. both escaped a cold and hungry old age-
well, we are inclined to think that a good many
families ought to go and do likewise.
* * *
The case of those two predatory Melbourne
constables, dismissed for endeavouring to levy toll
on a lady, will remind a good many that
‘ black-mailing ” used to be rampant in the Vic-
torian capital. The way of it was this : A swain
is sitting with his fair in, say, the Eitzroy Gardens,
after dark, when to them cones a peremptory
person who announces himself as a plain-clothes
policeman, accuses them of indecent behaviour,
and proposes to “run them in ” forthwith. Now,
in nine cases out of ten, however innocent the pair
may be, the man will sooner pay anything than
have the girl walked down to- the watch-house on
that or any other charge. This is what the
“ mailer ” counts upon, and so it quickly becomes
a question of “How much?” In one particular
instance matters had got thus far, and the dis-
gusted victim was preparing to hand over, when
by good luck a bona-fide policeman appeared on
the scene. The bogus constable immediately
bolted, but the “real article ” ran him down and
ran him in. There were five other charges of the
same kind against him, so the result was six
months’ hard, and a marked depression in the
“ mailing ” profession. There was another instance
in which a well-known sharebroker hit out and
broke the blackmailer’s jaw.
* m m
There is much more in the police black-
mail case at Toorak than has got into print. The
two constables were young, very young, and
green.
* * *
A standing “ad.” in Sydney Daily Tele-
graph invites “gentlemen wishing to sign the
address of sympathy ” with N.S. W. Chief Railway
Commissioner Eddy fwho gets .£3OOO a year) to
roll up at the Eddy demonstration office and
append their ignoble autographs to the document.
Also, copies thereof are waiting signature at
various places in Sydney where all manner of men
sign them without, knowing what they are; and
people hawk the testimonial around the city
offices, and won’t go out till somebody sympa-
thises with Eddy; and guinea subscriptions are
invited to cover the expenses. All this is for the
purpose of expressing the fact that the testi-
monialisers disapprove of legislator Schey’s
attack on Eddy, and it is a miserably round-
about way of arriving at the real purpose.
It isn’t Eddy that wants the document, but Schey.
If the demonstration people had the courage of
their opinions they would form themselves into a
Schey Disapproval Committee, and get up an
illuminated address, telling Schey that they don’t
like him, and then they would invite that M.L.A.
to a banquet, and present him with the docu-
ment, and make speeches, stating that they regard
him as a bad character, and Schey would return
thanks and say that he didn’t care. Finally,
Schey could be presented with a dead rat and a
bottle of evil-smelling chemicals. By this process
the committee w’ould, at least, show that it had
pluck enough to assert itself, which, up to date, it
hasn’t managed to do.
# # »
Vice-royalty in an Australian city was
much displeased t’other day at the tardiness
shown by a certain violinist in responding to a
“command ” to play for the special edification of
“m’ lady.” Result: the violinist was told she
need not come at all, and the expected vice-regal
patronage was withheld from all the public
entertainments. The same musician, when invited
to meet Foli, Harley, and other “stars,” at a
“ drawing-room,” was the only one of the company
who failed to respond to the request of the hostess
to “do something.”
• # #
Once again, “man’s faithful companion.”
The corpse of Robert Ralke, a Central Riverine
rabbiter, has been found in various gnawed sec-
tions. He died in the wilderness, and his trusty
hounds had eaten most of him. This ghastly
story brings to mind a Melbourne incident of a
few years back. There lived by himself in Little
Collins-street a carpenter, much given to misan-
thropy and beer. He was a man of some reading,
and was fond of the Frenchman’s saying: “The
more I study men, the more I love dogs !” Jones
• —that will do for his name had a dog himself, a
big brown retriever, on the attachment of which
animal he was never tired of descanting. But one
morning Jones was found lying on the floor in a
pool of blood. He had gone home very drunk,
and, having trodden on the dog’s foot, that faith-
ful animal had taken advantage of his helpless
condition to worry him nearly to death. The dog
was shot, and Jones eventually recovered, but ho
has given “canine fidelity ” a rest ever since.
* # #
At a S.A. country-house, the other day,
there was to have been a wedding, but when the
parties came to “With this ring I thee wed,” it
was found that the bridegroom had forgotten tiro
regulation “hoop.” After the bride’s finger had
been measured, a messenger was sent for a ring,
but he lost the tally on the way, guessed hurriedly
at the size, and rode back at a hand-gallop.
The ring proved impossibly small and couldn’t
be got on ; and the bride collapsed into tears and
hysterics. Then somebody entered and told
everybody that the messenger’s horsj had just
died in a fit outside, and, as things generally
seemed to be conspiring against the ceremony,
the business was adjourned for a fortnight.
Meanwhile, it was discovered that the bride was
under age, and that her guardians had sailed for
England without leaving their written consent to
the marriage. At latest dates, the bridegroom
was supposed to be hunting around for a magis-
trate authorised to consent to the marriage of
minors, but, as he has been seen making enquiries
at a branch office of the Chicago Fair, there are
not wanting cynics ready to wager that he intends
to stand by his luck.


eyesight preserved.
“ SPECTACLES t their tlse, when Kcqntrrd,
auil how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
jesting the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
'host happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
"’>sh it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
Pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost Sl Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
HI & fiB7 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Yachtsmen ! Smoke G N U N Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney
J. Liohtscbeindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., has taken over the above old
established first-class hotel. Special rates for commercia
travellers and families.
Messrs. Colemane and Signs’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Et calypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Fucafypte Pills pearls of
great price. i¥" For external use try Coi.f.manr and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamuudra, N.S.W
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
When are Spectacles Required ?
When the eyes water or become so much fatigued by
short exercise as to he obliged to be frequently closed or
relieved by viewing different objects.
When objects cannot be seen without removing them
to an increased distance.
When the letters of a book appear to blend with one
another.
When more light is necessary than was formerly, as
When the candle is placed between the eye and the
book ;
When much difficulty is found in threading a needle ;
When the eyes appear as if they had a mist before
them;
When black specks seem floating in the sight.
When any of the above indications arise, all affectation
bould be laid aside, responsible and skilful opticians com
9 i cd, and a pair of preservers purchased.
FROST & SHIPHAM
(Practical Spectacle Makers),
162, 174 AM) 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Are the People.
Dr Fafcou, Presbyterian missionary, states,
• Virion Times, that there are “40,000 cannibals
! n X gouth Sea Islands ready and pleading for
t ro S nel.” Which, when you look at it all
tllo / ; s very much like saying that there are
Ko Eskimos living in snow huts and praying
°banana fritters. The cannibal doesn’t know
f ?' c , (.Upj-e is any gospel, and therefore he doesn t
that tl _ t jiny mo ‘ e than t h e British labourer
does for a wider knowledge of Confucius.
# * *
At Albany (W. A.) two families the female
i rls of which are respectively a mother and her
arried daughter, live under the one roof. Each
in f t-hese matrons gave birth to a boy on the same
i a v and almost at the same hour. The infants
placed in one cradle, and became irretrievably
Ivec so that one mother doesn’t know whether
n ? p :« nursing her son or her grandson, and the
other isn’t sure whether she is holding her son or
her brother.
* * *
The Australasian has selected, this time
when some 50,000 men are unemployed and
fipsnerately necessitous—to publish pictorial repre-
sentations of the elegant residences and sumptu-
ously-furnished drawing-rooms of the greasy
plutocracy. # #
This is the epoch of billet-making. How-
ver now that Mr. E. L. Montefiore (who, being
a mid servant, will, we presume, resign his Art
Pnilerv trusteeship) has been appointed director
of the N.S.W. National Gallery at .£4OO per
annum, he will no doubt have time to take some
steps in the direction of purging the gallery of
much of its rubbish.
# * *
In a contested N.S.W. Supreme Court
will-suit still hanging fire, the estate consists of
one Sydney suburban bouse, value, <£37o. Costs
of each side have to be paid out of the estate. The
costs already amount to .£499 Bs. lOd.
* * *
There are indications of fresh anti
European outbreaks in China, and cable news
states that the missionaries are becoming alarmed.
There is no one so afraid to go to Heaven as a
missionary.
# * *
Twenty years ago an old lady at Parra-
matta, N.S.W., sold her house to a shrewd busi-
ness man for an annuity at the rate of <£l per
week and the right to live in the house rent free.
She was then 75 years old, and the bargain seemed
a soft snap. She is now 95, and still seemingly
good for a few years. The house has already cost
the buyer over <£looo, with loss of all interim rent
# * *
At the sale of the effects of a Hebrew
moneylender leaving Sydney for a trip to Europe
the other day, part of old Lord Augustus
Loftus’ wreckage turned up. “ A magnificent set
of table plate ” used by his Lordship * 1 on festive
occasions during his vice regal term in N.S.W.”
The unfortunate Governor had “festive occasion ’
to take it to uncle. There is a silver-mounted
tortoise-shell shaving-case of his also in a pawn-
broker’s window in Oxford-street. The poor old
man had an awful time in Sydney. Some of the
people who obliged him used to take it out partly
in social recognition. Lady Augustus lost all
patience once, and fairly flounced a rich publican’s
wife off the special dais reserved for the extra-
eleet at a Government House party. One indi-
vidual’s “ distinction ” is said to have, in a more
jr less roundabout way, a distinct odour of
“accommodation.” At least, people say so who
nave poked their noses into the transaction.
* # *
The cultivation of sugar is going on apace
in Queensland by the imported Italians, three of
whom visited Maryborough last week and started
crushing with the aid of two violins and a harp.
# • #
Dear Bulletin, —“Sappho,” writing in last
week’s issue of a new dodge for raising church funds
i.e., the cake ballot) refers possibly to an episode
which happened up Cunnamulla way, a few weeks
since. If so, the modus operandi as explained by
“ S.S.” is allright, but her informant didn’t furnish
full details. The amount to which the church
Denefited, by means of this latest ruse, was within
i few shillings of ,£l3O ; the confection originally
lost the committee but .£2 or thereabouts. The
result obtained by the Warrego whisky-syrens is
sloquent of the power of “ feminine influence ” in
chose parts. Peradventure, the fact that the
cickets were mostly disposed of in the local
"publics” had something to do with the result.
Anyhow, liquor and love, in double harness, make
ip a powerful team —one calculated to draw
lollars from the susceptible Banana-boys—so the
Qig dividend is not altogether astounding.—The
Breaker.
* # «
Rockhamptonians have all “sworn off”
Brisbane beer until Central Queensland obtains
territorial separation from South Queensland.
* * *
Anew edition of “Innocents Abroad”—
Blank and party out on bail.
* • *
A young man married is a young man
mar-ed-in-law.
* * *
Justice Holroyd, at Melbourne Criminal
Oourt, referred to the prosecutrix in an assault
Jase as a girl who, after being a consenting party,
nad “either repented or become frightened.”
Wise Judge! His knowledge of the emotions of
lovely woman has taught him that they are a
hopelessly mixed quantity.
• # *
Graham Berry must be deeply affected by
some of the Opposition objections to increased
postage rates in Victoria. One member discovers
that the new Bill is a Tory device for “ taxing the
poor servant girl’s letter.” Another complains that
•t is an injustice to the commercial classes, and a
third denounces it as an act of cruelty to the
working-man. The Bulletin’s chief objection to
a twopenny minimum lies in the fact that it will
tend to check the flow of correspondence between
Edwin and Angelina. Many newly - engaged
couples who have hitherto written twice a day,
will now write only once a day, and for several
hours at a stretch they will be mutually tormented
by doubts concerning each other’s safety.
8 * *
The reprieve of Carter, the Magill mur-
derer, may be taken as a convincing illustration of
the fact that, if the law has not yet abolished
capital punishment in South Australia, the poli-
ticians have. And no politician ever moves in the
direction of mercy, except he is impelled thither-
ward by public opinion. Carter has now been
“ imprisoned for life,” a phrase which, in the S. A.
dialect, means about 15 years, if he behaves him-
self. Nearly all the S.A. “lifers’’have got out
within that term. There is one exception—a man
named O’Donnell, who has survived over 21 years
of penal servitude, and would scarcely elect to stay
outside of gaol if he were set free. O’DonneU’s
crime was murder, and he has no friends faithful
enough to promise to keep him out of mischief.
So he vegetates on under the “ broad-arrow ”
uniform.
• * *
A Victorian M.P., in the winter of life,
is about to lead blushing spring to the altar.
# * *
“Eyeglass” Reid (N.S.W.): “A short
session should have been commenced in July to
deal with electoral reform.” Andy Kelly (re-
flectively): “Ah! we” —meaning Reid —“were
on our honeymoon then.”
* # *
“Children may ride on tlie elephant on
week days,” says a notification at Melbourne Zoo,
but are prohibited on Sundays. Nay, Sabbatarian
domination goes a step further, for —“The carni-
vora are fed at 3.30, except on Sundays.” The
pietists, unable to make human beings “keep”
the Sawbath, are persecuting the wild beasts.
THOSE PRIVATE BARS.
TEMPERANCE ADVOCATE: “Young man, the way through that door is the way to hell!"
YOUNG MAN: “You don’t say so! Then I’ll take the other door.” (Goes into the private
bar.)
A bright particular ass advertises in a
London paper for a wife “ who is pretty but
entirely ignorant of the fact.” The question arises
just here —if she is ignorant of the fact, how can
she answer the “ad.,” and if she answers it, how
can she be ignorant ?
* * *
A Launceston (Tas.) parson who, during
Rev. Grubb’s late revival furore there, promised,
with God’s help, to give up his Once-a-fortnight
cigar and thus crush down his wicked tobacco-
habit, has been driven by the weakness of the
flesh to resume his woeful dissipation. The poor
backslider now once more squanders eighteenpence
a quarter on the vile weed.
* * #
Dr. Schomburgk, curator, Adelaide Botani-
cal Gardens, who died a year ago, aged 80, had
for the last decade lived on his previous reputa-
tion, which in the beginning arose from the fact
that he was brother to the titled discoverer of the
“Victoria Regia.” He had let the gardens de-
generate into a flowerless jungle, despite the
liberal grant paid annually by the State. Maurice
Holtze, one of the best and most energetic of
Australian botanists, is now rapidly turning them
into a paradise again, although conservative
citizens resent every alteration made in the condi-
tion of neglect to which Dr. Schomburgk’s in-
attention had reduced them.
# * *
A diocesan festival, Church of England,
Melbourne Town Hall the other day, was a pro-
digiously fashionable gathering, characterised by
an entire absence of the working-class.
« # *
“ You must observe, my friend,” wrote
Oliver Goldsmith, “ that it is the custom of this
country, when a lady or gentleman happens to
sing, for the company to sit as mute and motion
less as statues. Every feature, every limb, must
seem to correspond in fixed attention, and while
the song continues they are to remain in a state
of universal petrifaction.” It's like a voice from
the dust sizing up a musical evening in Australia.
In King-street you can buy G N U N Darlings
A. X. Cassidy, D.D., writes a long and
forceful letter to the Bltgh (N.S.W.) Watchman,
concluding thus :
Every doctor attending hospitals should be obliged to
state his diagnosis of the disease of the patients he
attends in the hospital, and his daily treatment of the
diseases, for it is well-known that hospitals have every-
where and always been the play-ground of experimentors,
and this being so, a statement of the patient’s case would
be the best means of securing the patient’s confidence
and of meriting it. It would, moreover, make the
attending doctors more careful. The Government should
have the services of the best medical man in the country,
whose sole business should be to visit hospitals incognito
—who should visit the hospitals unexpectedly, examine
the patients, the notes of their diagnosis and treatment,
and leave the hospitals without any champagne suppers.
This would give the people more confidence, for it would
afford more security.
These proposals are worth thinking over.
* * *
The solemn Melbourne Argus is losing its
respectability. In a recent leader it speaks of a
politician as “ho great shakes,” and further on
alleges that somebody “had his knife into him.”
* # •
A “ drunk,” with £4OO in his pocket, was
found spread about South Melbourne one night
lately. So far as is known he is not connected
with any deposit-bank.
* * *
Premier Shiels ; “People who drink the
rich juice of the Victorian grape are drinking the
imprisoned sunshine of the earth.” Very true,
and we all know how too much sunshine affects
the head.
* * *
Melbourne Standard expects the world to
gape because parson Stacey Chapman, of Albert
Park, lately permitted dancing at a church social.’
* * ' #
Professor Kernot, at a meeting to Consider
cremation, held in Melbourne, produced part of a
cremated body, looking like a piece of loaf-sugar,
and remarked : “That beautiful white fragment is
infinitely preferable to the corruption of the
grave.” Certainly, but it will take a lot of fire to
turn a number of Victorian men out white.
* * *
In Melbourne Evening Herald, 31st
August;
To Keep Butter Cool.— Wanted to hear of a simple
method. —Alice.
Dear Alice, —1. Keep it off the stove. 2. Don’t
leave it in the sun. 3. Try ice on it.—Yours
sincerely, Esquimaux.
'## * ■
In the Salvation Army, at Newcastle,
N.S.W., is a religious enthusiast of high musical
attainments. Dissatisfied with the noisy yelling
of threadbare commonplace airs he extended the
short score of several of Mendelssohn's “Lieder
Ohne Worte,” and adapted the words of the Army
hymns to them. He then selected a chorus of
the purest voices in the corps and trained them
to render these beautiful songs with taste and
feeling. The “Andante Sostenuto,” in E minor,
to the words, “For yer must be a lover of the
Lord,” is a queer union of the sublime and the
ridiculous. The local Liedertafel is already bilious
with envy, and has made overtures to the crank to
accept the position of conductor-
# # *
The Australian certificates of pharma-
ceutical chemists arc not accepted by the Phar-
maceutical Society of Great Britain ; yet British
certificates are recognised by any Australian
Pharmacy Board. Here, then, is another matter
in which a little retaliatory protection might lead
to reciprocity on terms of equality, since Austra-
lian examinations are admittedly tougher than
those undergone in England. Septimus Vaughan
Morgan, a British pharmaceutist, and proprietor
of the Chemist and Druggist, was challenged, at
the recent annual meeting of the Queensland
Pharmaceutical Society, to test the local examina-
tion by going “ through the mill,” and ho replied,
“lam afraid I should be plucked.” And, why
should not Victorian pharmaceutical certificates
be recognised by the. N.S.W. Board, and vice
The manager of a large Northern sheep-
station (S.A.) was, the other day, abusing an
Afghan camel-driver for watering his camels
without permission. As the follower of Mahomet
didn’t seem to understand what the boss of
a station was, our manager, pointing Heaven-
ward, said : “ You know him boss up there; boss
over everything ? ” “Yes.” “Well, me all the
same down here. Boss over everything.”
* * *
“Long Eye versus Big Lip” was the
recorded name of a recent Chinese petty assault
case at Port Douglas, N. Q.
# * #
Sydney lawyer: “Those haunts of im-
morality, coffee-palaces !” Magistrate ; “ I can’t
permit that expression to go unchallenged. I
resided at the (Hot Roll) coffee-palace for nine
years, and never witnessed any immorality there.”
Lawyer; “That is the only one which I never
visited, your Worship.”
# * *
The Bulletin is shocked to learn that it
was a leading member of a late Victorian Govern-
ment who first induced a titled financier to seek
after strange women. This was a case, however,
in which the sheep with the golden fleece, being a
prominent supporter of his church, didn’t require
much leading astray. It was otherwise with the
member for Blank. This good young man was
lured by some of his brother legislators into a
bagnio and shut up with a syren, who, acting
under previous instructions from the senate,
straightway reduced herself to the garb of primi-
tive innocence. Then the conspiring patriots
burst suddenly into the room, and told the member
for Blank that they wouldn’t have believed it of
him.
# # *
Argument of a Victorian country deputa-
tion, protesting against the closure of their school
(maximum attendance, 10): “When the onion
season is on, the kids can’t attend school, but
there ain’t no onion-crop this year.”
# * *
Professional rumour hath it that a very
young relative of one of the N.S.W. judges is to
occupy the onerous position of Registrar in
Bankruptcy, likely to be vacated at the end of the
year. We trust this family job will never be
perpetrated. Mr. Henry is not a lawyer, but
with the exception of his one bee that every
bankrupt is naturally a scoundrel, and that every
witness is perjuriner himself, he has honorably
filled a trying and difficult office.
# # *
Hardface is a Sydney lawyer of lawyers
who never works a dead horse, and gets his money
down or gives no advice. He was lately sued for
supplies by his butcher, who got judgment.
Beefsteak worried the chief bailiff to issue execu-
tion, and, after much delay, the lawyer was in-
formed that a bailiff must go in. Winking the
other eye he suggested himself as bailiff, and was
duly installed in possession, in his own office.
Weeks went on and, at last, butcher demanded a
sale. Then the lawyer brought in affidavits that
the furniture belonged to the landlord, and, with
consummate audacity, charged his fees as bailiff in
his own case. The poor butcher had to pay all
costs, and now his fear of the shark overcomes his
anger.
« * *
A Mayor’s nest—The Town Hall.
# # *
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos your item about
the mad barber, here is an actual personal experi-
ence. Hurrying to Spencer-street station, in Mel-
bourne, one day, it suddenly struck me. that I
needed a shave, and I darted into the first hair-
dresser’s I came across. I thought the barber had
an uncommonly weird look about the eyes, but
took no further notice until, while the boy was
soaping my chin, I heard some uncanny sounds
behind me. I looked round, and there was the
barber, with a razor in his hand, gesticulating
wildly at his own reflection in the glass. The
situation called for prompt action, so up I jumped,
grabbed a towel, rubbed the soap off my face,
threw down sixpence, muttered something about
catching a train, and fled —pursued only by an
eldritch screech. Coming back to town about
four hours later, I saw a cab, a crowd, and a
policeman at the door of this same shop. The
man had delirium tremens, and was being taken to
hospital with a severe gash in his throat—which
might very well have been in mine had I waited
for his manipulation.— A.M.
No other medicine has won for itself such
universal confidence as Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is
the most powerful combination of vegetable
alteratives ever offered to the public, and is
acknowledged to be the best blood-purifier.
“Tales of the Convict System” by
“ Price Waning,” from The Bulletin, are now
published and may be had of any bookseller; or
will be posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Posted
to any English address for Is. lOd. in stamps.


m
tit
Mrs
y :
For the Cure
All throat and lung diseases, Ayer's Cherry
Pectoral is the best known remedy. When the,
bronchial tubes are sore and obstructed with
phlegm, this medicine is invaluable. It is an
anodyne expectorant, and, in cases of deep
seated consumption, it cures the coughing,
soothes and heals the lacerated tissues, and
induces refreshing sleep. A few doses are usu-
ally sufficient to afford speedy relief in cases of
Colds and Coughs
It is also as speedily efficacious, and prompt
to allay the distressing symptoms of asthma,
bronchitis, sore throat, hoarseness, croup, and
whooping cough, and, in thousands of fami-
lies, is the only cure used. It is the best emer-
gency medicine and should always be at hand.
No household in which there are young chil-
dren, can afford to be without
flyer’s Cherry Pectoral,
PREPARED BY
Or. J. C. AYER & GO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. li
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
* 80 %1
fd
iTHE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN S SWEET)
C<™^^±cinMuts.»
Lancet,
St. John's Works, London W.C,
:J{ Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S m*
MALTED
&
<V
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
f
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
I TW ALTED MILK is n-r.de from llu i
111 richest and pi rest of miik, combii cd i
with the nutritious and digestible (
parts of wheat and maltai barley. {
Tl/TALTED MILK is not to be cooked, j
111 no milk is to be added ; it is quicklj (
and readily prepared for instant use \
by dissolving in water. S
|WT ALTED MILK is the best food for In- r
111 fants. “ The composition of Malted 1
Milk resembles that of human milk." 1
—La:u\t, April 4, iS.jt. 1
iyrALTED MILK, as a food for In-f
111 valids, surpasses all other light diets. J
| Being most nutritious and easily!
) assimilated, it is constantly f res-!
) cribed by the Medical Profession )
► in England and America. “ Very )
palatable,and free from adulterants.'' )
—British .l initial Journal, April 18, 1891. J
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate. /
Of all Chemists and Druggists. /
IF A losalc Agents ; — (
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane. J
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
es MiiglScktW'
u^hWI 1
i
LOHSE’S
MAIGLDCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'Perfumers.
GUSTAVLOHSE.BerIin.
A
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfk’s Schnapps.
Be a swell and smoke SNUN Darlings.
Footballers !
Smoke GNUN Darlings.
Use Batho's Baking Powder.
*
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THE WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
LABOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO Packets of the “RISING
SUN ” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
N
B
EimmiiiiHgM!
( PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.)
( Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers. ?
“German
A Farmer at
Edom, Texas,
Says;
“ We are six in fam-
ily. We live in a
place where we are
subject to violent
Colds and Lung
Troubles, I have
used German Syrup for six years
. successfully for Sore Throat, Cough,
Cold, Hoarseness, Bains in the
Chest and Lungs, and spitting-up
of Blood. I have tried many d',h«-
ent kinds of cough Syrups in my
time, but let me say to anyone want-
ing such a medicine —German Syrup
is the best. That has been my ex-
perience. __ If you use k dice, you
will go back 1$ it whenever you
need it. It gives total iisiiei and is
a quick cure. My advice to every-
one suffering with Lung Troubles is
—Try it. You will soon be con-
vinced. In all the families where
your German Syrup
is used we have no
trouble with the
Lungs at all. It is
the medicine for this
country. @
G. G. GREEN. Sole Man’fr,Woodtmry,N J,
John
Franklin
Jones.
9 8
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
dfd
or,
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
49. Call Me Back Attain.
253. Starlight Nell.
2C7. Then You'll Remember Me.
298. White Wings.
410. Who's that Calling so Sweet.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
427. A Little Peach in an Orchard grew
528. Bogie Man.
500. Gipsy Countess (vocal duet)
507. Diver in K flat. 508. Diver in F.
509. Maggie Murphy s Home.
PIANOFORTE.
473. Alh die March. Mendelssohn.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
504. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue (.lively
THE HOLBORN MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Ksf. 1815] trade supplied. [list. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
A rich, Appetizing I"
A truly surprising T
A saving, not wasting-
Beautiful tasting—
Very fine flavoured T
THE
LONDON
™SYDNEY
TEA co.-s TEA
1/3,1/6,1/9 & 2/- per ITd.
20lb„ 251 b., & 401 b. Chests
delivered free to any RAIL-
WAY STATION or PORT IN
NEW SOUTH WALES.
M. H. MURRELL.
MANAGER.
A well recommended
Judicially blended
Comforting, pleasing,
Always appeasing,
Best sort of household X
Furnituro, etc.
Lawler and sons’ “ specialty >
BARGAIN SALE.
The marvellous success attendant upon our Half,
yearly “ Stock taking Sale lias induced us to re<
mark the whole warehouse and to throw open ti-
the public the whole of the stock, and under tins
name and character of a “SPECIALTY BAR.
GAIN SALE ” continue the bargains in all om
departments, and maintain the reputation that
amongst bargain-lovers we have gained.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICES.
See Enamelled Mugs, large, at 8d
See Salt Cellars at 2d
See Candlesticks at 4d
See Hat and Coat Hacks at Is
and Is Cd
See Fancy Cups and Saucers at
Cd per pair
See Plates, large size, at 3d each
See Sponge Baskets at 4d and Cd
See Sponges at Bd, Is, Is Cd, 2s
TEJI
ISJI
‘;kji
Ask to be shown “ LAWLER and SONS’ ”
SURPRISE-GIVING 5-HOLE CRUET at 12a
Od. This is a line cannot be beat at 225.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICES.
jar"
Beautiful Large Glass Jugs, Is 3d
Strong Knife Boxex, 9d
Blacking-brush Boxes, (3d
Strong Bellows, Is 6d each
Glass Sugars, 6d each
Glass Butters, (id each
Wine Glasses, 2d each
Salt Boxes, 6£ each
Ask to bo shown “LAWLER and SONS’”
SURPRISE-GIVING SET of 3-TIN DISH
COVERS at Is. Yes, this is a “ SPECIALTY ”
BARGAIN SALE.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICE.
Dish Mats by the Set, Is lid
Fancy Present Mu«s, 5d each
Cheese Stands, Is Cd each
Set Canisters, 3s
Ditto, 6 in Set, 9d
Beautiful Black and Gold Teapots,
Is Cd
White and Gold China Jugs, lid
Large Breakfast Trays, 2s 9d
■m
“®ji
1551
Ask to be shown the 23s and 25s Set of Large
Dish Covers, and you’ll say they are worth twice
the money.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICE.
8^"
IEST”
iw~
83T”
isr*
Splendid Oleographs, 2s
Ditto, large size, 3s 9d
Breakfast Cruets, 8d up
Carving Knives and Forks, 2s Cd up
Extra Large Brown Teapots, Is cd
Handsome Splash Mats, 8d
Mincing and Sausage Machines, Cs
Cd up
Baking Dishes, extra strong, 9d up
Any quantity odd “Cruet” bottles for Pepper
and Vinegar at 4d. each ; also odd chambers, any
quantity, Is. 3d. up.
LOOK IN I
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS
and
NOTE
tlie
PRICES. |
Enamelled Ware of all kinds in POTS
and PANS and CUPS and SAUCERS
and TEAPOTS and COFFEEPOTS, and
in TOILET WARE, as also in SPIT-
TOONS and KETTLES, etc., etc., and
all marvellously low in price.
EJ
Ei
u
18
Bargains abound, and to such an extent as to
make it utterly out of the question to convey an
idea of their extent.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER'S
WINDOWS
and
NOTE
the
BARGAINS.
Hearth Rugs at Bs. Gd., worth 15s.
Ditto at Cs. Cd., worth 12s. Cd.
Oilcloth, 2 yards wide, at Is. 9d,
Tapestry Carpet at Is. Gd.
Brussels Carpet at 3s.
Window Blinds at 2s. lid. up.
Cornice Boles, with ends and rings, 4s6d
Door Wats, Is. 4d., Is. t)d., Is. lid.
Ask the CARPET DEPARTMENT to show
you the VELVET PILE TABLE COVERS ;vt
2Ls., i-edueed to that figure from 325. Gd.
LAWLER and SONS’,
LAWLER’S,
LAWLER and SONS’,
LAWLER’S,
008, 610, 012,
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
LAWLER’S Name is, and has
been, the synonym for “ Sani-
tary ” Bedding.
LAWLER’S have refused orders
before to-day, rather than he
tempted into touching cheap
bed stuffs.
Their best reward is in their
Great Trade.
As “Complete” and “Throughout” Economi-
cal House, Ship and Hotel Furnishers, LAWLER
and SONS HAVE NO EQUALS.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S IF YOU WANT
TO BE SAFE.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S IF YOU WANT
VALUE.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S AND SAVE 30
PER CENT.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S AND YOU’LL
BE SATISFIED.
FURNISH AT LAWLERS AND HAVE NO
TROUBLE.
Get “Lawler and Sons’” Furnishing Guide or
Household Companion, which enables you to fur-
nish at your own fireside just as completely as if
on the floors of the house. Furnish now and save
money, but whatever time you furnish call upon
LAWLER’S,
608, 610 and 612 GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
MALTO-
SUPERIOR TO am: OTHER
PREPARATIONS
WINE.
AGUE,
DEBILITY,
I N FLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS,
LANGE
Wholesale Agents:
<sc THONEMAN,
II i; i. IS o I ifN K.
A
GOLDEN SHAN T Y.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Within p °rty (4=o) Miles of Sydney on Western Railway Line.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Rights,
.A. JR/IE FOW FOB lITSFECTIOIT A, JET ID SELECTION.
& COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY PENRITH TO MULGOA.
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa, or to Sydney Agents,
XXardle '& Gorman, 133 Rltt Street, Sydney
llev. Patou asserts that 40,000 South Sea
cannibals are ready for the Gospel. Wrong. It
is the gospellers the cannibals are ready for.
It is becoming tho vogue in N.W. districts
of N. S. Wales for unionist shearers to adopt
fictitious names as a preventive against being boy-
cotted by pastoralists who have been officially fur-
nished with an anti unionist “black list.”
Some fiendish destroyer of human happi-
ness burglarised the Crown Brewery, Bathurst,
N.S.W., on a recent Saturday night, and knocked
the bungs out of 44 hogsheads of beer and 10 hogs-
heads of porter. Only think of it! Ten thousand
phantasmagorioal ecstacies of delirium murdered
in the womb of possibility !
Heiuy Lucy in S. M. Heeald says that
“poor Cousin May,” who was to have married
the late Albert Victor, “has completely retired
into the background. Cinderella has gone back
to her kitchen and her name is never now
mentioned in the Court Circular. She has
once more become a very inconsiderable person
in the minor household at the White Lodge.
Nothing came of the outbursts of national regret
and sympathy which proposed to itself to take
practical shape in the presentation to the sud-
denly-bereaved bride-elect of the costly presents
prepared for her wedding day. That is the kind
of thing which if ’twere done ’twere well ’twero
done quickly.” Mr. Lucy's further remarks, read
between the lines, tend to show that the Tecks are
very hard up—as usual.
A Brisbane (Q.) baker has been fined
■£13 10s. as the debutant under the new Queens-
land Sales of Bread Regulation Act, which inflicts
a fine of 5s. for every ounce of weight deficient.
This baker was punished for having 1(5 light-
weight loaves on his premises, mark you ! and not
for “selling ” light-weight bread. The prosecution
assumed that he was going to sell them, and going
to sell them at deficient weights. In other words,
the man was punished for his presumed intention
of breaking the act, i.e., for thinking about com-
mitting a misdemeanour. Is this fin-de-sie.de law ?
The “quartern” of the writer’s boyhood looms
large in memory as two loaves and a loose chunk
on top. which chunk the juvenile messenger used
to conscientiously chaw on his loitered way home.
This makeweight chunk seems to be unknown to
Queensland law and Brisbane lawyers.
Lumley Hill, W. E. Abbott and Co. never
tire in depicting the alleged generosity of the
squatters to sundowners and “loafers on horse-
back,” the tall yarns varying in the tallies of
nightly station-guests from 20 to 100! “Nomad ”
tells his experience to the Hu.mmek. “Nomad”
arrived at a Queensland station on the day fixed
by the squatter for commencing shearing.
Squatter wasn’t ready, and wouldn’t be for a
fortnight:—
Meanwhile, he kindly allows me to camp outside the
fence, and, further, he lets me use the creek-water gratis.
If I require anything more than water to subsist on, he
very generously supplies me with rations at the following
ratesFlour, per lb., 4d. ; brown sugar, 6d. ; lantern
sheep, 6s. per head ; salmon, Is. 6d. per tin ; jam, Is. 9d.;
candles, Is. 6d. per lb. ; soap, 2s. per bar.
In order to secure a stand in a shearing-shed, the
shearer has to be “ humble,” to produce references
from his last employer, and to lend the squatter
£1.
The wreck of the Newfield a few days ago
on tlie Victorian coast is another satire on the
horse-sense of seamen in general. The story is
always very much the same. A dark, stormy
nighi, a ship that is fifty or a hundred miles out
of her reckoning, and a captain that won’t lie-to
till daylight, are the principal features. Then
there is a concussion, and a stampede for the
boats. Some of them are capsized in the confusion
and the darkness; some get ground to pieces
against the ship’s side, or else go blundering
through the midnight trying to find a landing place
where, in all probability, there is none, or where, if
there is one, nobody knows how to find it. And then,
when everybody is satisfactorily drowned, and
daylight arrives, the wrecked ship is found lying
high and dry on the rocks, and the ship’s cat,
which was the only animal that had sense
enough to stay on board and wait the course
of events, is having breakfast all by itself
in the cabin. When the Taiaroa was stranded
recently on the Maoriland coast the crew, from
sheer force of habit, rushed to the boats as usual,
and having got into them they hitched them to
the wreck, and waited for daybreak. The wreck
was still there in the morning, but most of the
people were lost through their frail cockleshells
being shivered against the vessel’s sides in the
night. When asliip goes aground in the darkness
the man who has the best chance is the one who
is too drunk to move, and is forgotten in the rush.
Some hero almost always arises and nobly drowns
the others in his efforts to get them out of
the warm cabin without delay and land them on
some damp, inhospitable coast where they will all
catch rheumatism before morning.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.


drink only
LEFETSVRE & SONS’PftUB
■ v . Ai'strau vn. Winks—■ equal to
at trench ami Spanish vintages. Sold at, Australian
SToiiV.lJ 'fixations. Offices and Stores: 5'29 COLLINS
MELBOURNE, Vic.
«.COPYRIOHT<-
if" the old proverb be true;
SAPGLIO is greater Hmn
royalty itself: Try i t in your nexb
house-cle&ning: Grocers keep ih
DO YOU LIVE IN GREASE?
As a true patriot and citizen you should naturalize yourself
by using the best inventions of the day for removing such a charge.
To live in Grease is utterly unnecessary when SAPOLIO is sold
in all the stores, and abolishes grease and dirt.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
13?” Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize "Wb
AT TUB
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS,” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGAROS,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: Met A Kill V A t'O.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the - Address :
&; 00-, ’’X’cs'fcsEa.c co Miercliantß,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAY MARKET), SYDNEY.
ANDREW USHER & CO.’S WHISKIES.
NOTICE,
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings a era hist any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under :
Andrew Usher Ik Co.’s
n
OLD VATTED GLEXLIVET WHISKY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve."
BLAKE A KICiGALL, Solicitors,
120 William st., Melb
Amusements.
■O'ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Inauguration of
THE GAIETY BURLESQUE SEASON
on
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 10.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGKOVE lias the honour to announce
the fiist aspearance in Sydney of the
London Gaiety Burlesque Company
(l>y arrangement with Mr. G. Edwards).
BOX PLAN at THEATRE. See Siturday’s Papers*
Q.ARBICK THEATRE
BRILLIANT SUCCESS !
BRILLIANT SUCCESS !
.1
and
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
EMERSON <Sc WOOD’S
—ALABAMA—
MIIsTSTEELS.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Prices—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is. Early door, Is Extra.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
IMPERIAL OPERA HOUSE.
YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Director .. Mr. Geo. Forbes.
Business Manager .. Mr. R. F. Keating.
Treasurer Mr. W. Gannon.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, September 8) TO - NIGHT
(Miss Myra (Kemble
And HE U PO W ER FU L COMP ANY
in
F. W. Broughton’s Successful Comedy-Drama
in Four Acts, entitled,
A DEE Ft OF THE REALM.
Interpreted by Messrs. A. R. Laurence, Frank Cates,
R. Owen Harris, Henry Shine, George Walton, George
Leopold, Miss Annie Taylor, Mrs. Molvneux, and Miss
MYRA KEMBLE.
Box Plan at PALING'S. Prices as Usual.
f
Albert’s Easy Time-payment System.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accoideons, 12s. (id., 155., 215., 235.
(id., 335. (id., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. (id., 18s. (id., steel reeds, 215., and 235. (id.
Anglos, best Kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 0.1., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. (id. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert',
02 155., £3 155., and £5 6s. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 Ids., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355.. 655., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Auloharp-Zithers, 355., 655., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS: —Any of the above instruments can be purchased
with ONE shilling (or more) deposit, and the remainder
to be paid off by weekly instalments at no less than ONE
shilling per week on eacli instrument, or five per cent,
will be allowed for cash. .1. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-
street. Cheapest Music Warehouse in Australia. Illus-
trated catalogues and particulars posted FREE.
M'lIE GRAND TOILET CLUB, 70 Hunter Street, Sydney
* (opposite Tram Waiting Room). W. MORB IS (late of
Truefilts, London). To the Gentlemen of Sydney; In
catering for your patronage, I desire to direct your atten-
tion to the elegance and comfort of my Hairdressing
Saloons, and respectfully solicit a visit, feeling assured I
shall give you every satisfaction.
VJIHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL,
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies! for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
lour through South Africa, c'ther on shares, or such
terms as may ho arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advoi lisemeuts, and Advance Agent.
(t3T All RailwaTrardllu;/, ThS
Apply for particulars, cable address “OI’EIIA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. li.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
A GREAT REDUCTION.
Weigel’s Journal of Fashion.
df
—— >,
Post Free:
payable
in advance.
Subscription :
Yearly .. 4 /-
Half-yearly .. 2/G
Single Copy .. 61d.
Catalogues, con I aiiling
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPER
PATTERNS of DRESSES,
MANTLES, etc., sold from 3d. to
2s. Sent post free on receipt of
postal note or postage stamps from the principal offices.
Sydney 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway),
Melbourne .. 99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
SYDNEY CATERING CO.
(i, nn iKi>>,
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY;
FIRST-CLASS
DINING- and LUNCHEON BOOMS,
Under the superintendence of a high-class Chef.
MAGNIFICENT BAR.
(Upstairs.)
With BILLIARD ROOM contiguous, containing
Four of the most modern Tables.
PRESS. — A thoroughly experienced and most
energetic Journalist, with undeniable refer-
ences, who has successfully edited and managed
several metropolitan and provincial newspapers,
desires an engagement in any of the Australasias
as Editor, Sub-Editor, or Leader-Writer. Or
would contribute sketches, leaders, and corres-
pondence.—A dress, “Editor,” care of Wimble &
Co., Melbourne.
“ ROBIN HOOD’S”
Popular Monster Cash Prize List.
CAULFIELD C. Oct. 15, 1892.
At 5 each. 50,000 Subscribers At 5 eacb.
First
Second
Third
S(d)
N S (d)
.. 5000
.. 1250
1000
.. 1000
.. 125)
d
100 Consolations at 2; 350 Consolations at I;
SSO extra SSO
MELBOURNE C. Nov. 1, 1892.
At 5 each. IUU,OOO Subscribers. At 5 each.
fd
1000 Consolation*at I.
OiT Uvoryonc chance of 32. 1560 extra.
AIso'MELBOURNE C. at 10.
25,000 Subscribers at 10 ; 25,000.
On similar lines; 965 extra. 'WS
State amount enclosed, and sc id 2 stamps w tit
addressed envelopes, one for reply and the other for
result. Be sure to register your letters. Stamps
will be accept >d if 3 »/ 0 exchange is add ;d with amount.
The Consolation Prizes arc a specially favour-
able new feature, ami are solely originated by me.
The Consolation Prizes largely incroisi the
chances and minimise. Read my MANi FESTO sent
with circulars free. Note address carefully—
■ KOlil.V IIOOII,"
C/o Mauder'J Telegram Agency, DEAN ST., AbBUIIY, N.3.W.
a i ora
MARK
r.”A v Q
ZTh i c j »r.H j i u t I,
V t
40.000 iii I sr. Keronl, I*9 words per minute.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper others. Any
intelligent person may learn la write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces lf> first-clsss copies at one operation. Agents
SVDNKV; J. 15. Cunningham, St Klizabeth-st. ; M KE-
RO CRN K: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstono Chandlers,
Collins si reel ; RRISRAIS’K; Webster it Co. ; ADELAIDE"
K. S. Wigg & Son ; UOR ART: J. Walch & Sons.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Wc are asked whether anyone knows the Mister
<■ * V Miller,” of Sydney, who calmly announces a
■Pint) 000* Cup consultation. “A. J.” Miller—that is
■ uis Th e o ld Simon Pure was J. J. Miller. Mr.
Tm er’s bait is that he “only deducts five per cent.’
*..nther suspicious circumstance is that Mr. Miller, of
£ n o VV ggems to spread his circulars in the country and
nther provinces—he lies very low as far as Sydney is con-
cerned. Our present enquiry comes from Maoriland.
* * *
The best performances of Mick O’Brien (whose
f lher died the same day that the jockey was buried) were
ki.oi.lv bis V.H.C. Derby win on Hnfus, the Melbourne
}V An',sheet Anchor, and the Caulfield Cup on Ben Bolt,
ithcr of these three horses being good for more than
"k. treat effort. With Le Grand, for the Champion, lie
on , ” a well-judged race, too, and he used to do pretty
' ~Vas he liked on Gardenia (in moderate com pan j)
nl |.pn that weedy mare was fairly wound up. It was a
int to see O’Brien finish on Gardenia, and a real pity
(hit she broke down shortly before Chicago’s Caulfield
, That was to have been Gardenia’s journey. The
BuUktin was maTdng ready to fire olf a splendid “tip”
whei’ Providence interfered.
* * *
The Bulletin’s tip of Mentor for the Mel-
iinnrne Cup of ’BB'was inspired by poor Mick O’Brien’s
cnleiidid faith in the staying power of that game little
nn.se Even Donald Wallace, usually the most sanguine
nf owners, couldn’t be persuaded that Mentor was such a
“.mod thing” as the jockey declared him to be before
ii.p race. But Mick had made no mistake. Knowing
Mentor’s capabilities, he formed a little syndicate to buy
Tradition, the only one that troubled him in the Cup, but
in this case he went on the hypothesis that a horse which
runs well when big can do wonders when ho is “fit.”
Mick and his friends lost a lot of money in trying to get
Tradition “fit,” and never seemed to understand the
nature of the animal until lie was hopelessly done for.
# # #
But for the late “Mick” O’Brien, Carbine
would have numbered a V.K.C. Derby among his
triumphs. Hales caught Michael napping, and lifted
Ensi'ci home by a headlet —great riding, and never to be
forgotten by those who saw it, reminding one also of a
similar pleasant experience of Fred. Archer’s, who
“napped” once on a 25 to 1 on mount, and Wood
snueezed in by a nose. Give O’Brien his due, he ivas a
very clever jock, in his day, and as straight as some of
thelll ’ # * *
Ike Foulsham, with his G’Naroo, Dundas, and
Malolo, promises to pile up the agony for the poor punters
this year. # *
The “odds on” chances win rather consistently
at petty middle-of-the-week meetings around Melbourne,
and every Monday brings news that another of the local
books is “stiff.”' The totalisator can’t go bung, that’s
one comfort.
* * *
Melbourne, since the introduction of the Totali-
sator Bill, is being infested with “ sporting clubs ” in each
of which a “tote” is run. As the instrument is .rather a
novelty in Melbourne all are doing well, and though the
totes arc situated in the principal streets, the police make
it convenient not to see them. The principal “club” is
run by a bookmaker. The totalisator should only be
allowed on the racecourse, under the auspices of the racing
club. To permit its use in tobacconists’ shops, &c., is to
subsidise gambling and provide a living for a horde of
plausible, lazy scoundrels.
It’s no exaggeration to say that the best Mel-
bourne tipster is the most vinous. Not long ago, he
stepped into an omnibus, full of people, and began cheek-
ing them all round, especially “that solemn old geeser in
the corner, with his hands on his umbrella, and his nut-
cracker face,” or something like that. After this he gave
them the lip of an outsider—which won.
# * *
The S.A. Advertiser went down badly last
week. Its sporting man published a statement to the
iffect that John Day, the' famous English trainer, had
once written to a patron that his horse was in great fettle,
and must win, and advising him to back the animal
heavily. The par went on to say that Day also wrote to a
bookmaker conveying other information, and stating that
he would lay long odds against the horse. The two letters,
so ran the story, were put into wrong envelopes, with
disastrous results. Last Tuesday, however, the Adver-
tiser man was interviewed by a Lockleys (S.A.) trainer,
who stated that the yarn was untrue, because his grand-
father, John Day, could not write! The sporting editor
then went downstairs and kicked himself.
# • #
Melbourne Sportsman, with unconscious irony,
the other day stated t hat in respect to the last wishes of
the deceased, they would not insert his portrait in their
paper.
# * *
The Hawkesbury meeting continues to decline.
In these days people do not care to travel so far afield,
especially with such a surfeit of metropolitan racing.
* * *
The Hawkesbury Handicap was won by Selkirk
in such good style that the 71b. penalty thus incurred—
bringing his weight up lo fist, lllh.—for the Metropolitan
by no means extinguishes his chance.
# » *
By winning the County Purse, at the Hawkcs-
hury, Alcides lias incurred a penalty of lOlbs., which
brings his weight for the Epsom Handicap up to 7st. Clbs.
* * *
Confidence, with 12st. 131b5., won the steeple-
chase at the South Australian Jockey Club’s meeting,
thus proving himself barely second to Bedleap as a cross-
country performer, Conlideiiop is said never to have
made a mistake or touched an obstacle either in training
or in “work.” Just Hie horse for the Liverpool Grand
National, into which he would get at a moderate weight.
# * #
The question of “ faking ” the table in a recent
match recalls the fact that such was done in a game for
£5O aside between two Northerners. The ultimate winner
was good at hazards, and after the game inspection
showed the entrance to tin' p ickets had been filed. A
hall placed within an inch of the pocket would roll in.
# # #
St. Albans 11. has been spiritedly supported for
Me bourne Cup by Hie right party.
# * *
t The stable have backed Titan, so he must have
“ shown something.”
# # *
Jem Hall’s easy defeat ’ of Pritchard shows the
dearth of good pngs, in England. On this public form,
Fitzsimmons should make short work of all opponents
named to date.
# * *
Sullivan is favourite, at 1000 to 800 on, for the
Corbett fight.
• # *
Willis, the feathc r weight, was recently fined
for langwidgc. The law knocks them all out.
« • •
The red-headed Fitzsimmons was once ready to
make it “ willing,” at the White Horse, for a crown a
night. Ho now turns up his nose at a £3OOO purse.
# # #
Have you heard of the anti-gambling N.S.W.
deacon who won £4500 in Tattcrsall’s sweep?
* # *
. Hie recent Botany Handicap (21 sovs. only, but
it showed better and more honest running than when the
prize was hundreds) was won by J. Butler, who, we
’” leve > won one of the big handicaps over five years ago,
"hen Sydney pedestrianism was at the height of its glory.
* # #
Ihe Chows of Ballarat played a football-match
Hi the local oval, one day lately, for the sacred cause
j charity,' and they intend, if is said, to follow up the
Ktea. ij ow w lll Dio Association stand Chinese cheap
football ?
Tommy Corrigan’s a bit off-colour.
* # #
“ Augur” Chapman is obviously hard to replace.
• # #
The Agricultural Show, Melb., has galled a
section of the society in regard to the steeplechasing
displays. The Presbyterians are strong, and will try to
put them down.
• • •
A prominent lightweight pugilist has been
having a gay time in Newcastle (N.S.W.) lately. Though
merely a common, inferior ruffian he finds lots of Tom-
noddies to relieve his necessities and supply his vinous
wants. He tried to bulldoze a town accustomed to
Yankee sailors on the burst and English crews carousing,
but with limited success. In one public he started to
perform on a solid Geordie miner about his own height,
Imt weighing 13 stone 10 lb. of sheer hone and muscle.
The miner tolerated his familiarities for some time till,
finding his forbearance misconstrued, he seized the pug
by the hips and gave him the “flying horse.” This
wrestling manoeuvre landed the astonished fightingman
up about eight feet among the dummy champagne bottles.
Same night, while vociferously monopolising the footpath
lie ran up against some Pericles men who prompt ly dumped
him into the muddy kennel. He also made the acquaint-
ance of a publican who was a better shot with beer-glasses
than himself.
# # •
In Melbourne and suburbs there are 124 recog-
nised football clubs, which send, on an average Saturday,
about 3000 players into the field.
* » *
At a Victorian country race-meeting, the judge
declared a “ dead heat.” One owner protested that his
horse had won by about half-a-head. “Oh, you can’t
come that game here,” was the reply ; “we must see
daylight between the first and second horse before it’s a
win.”
# # *
A Nyngan (N.S.W.) writer revives the memory
of an occasion at some Hill End races, years ago, when
the local sports had no stop-watches, and the timekeeper
used to turn a grindstone, an assistant keeping tally of
the number of revolutions he made during the running
of each race. Then they calculated the odd seconds by
the average number of turns the grinder made in a
minute.
* * *
G. Donald, M.P. (N.S.W.), and J. B. Suttor,
a railway district engineer, got “ blowing ” the other day,
up Mt. Victoria way, about each’s prowess in napping
blue-metal. The result was a challenge match for £5
a side, to break from one to three cubic yards of metal,
on 9th Nov.
* m *
Small wonder that nearly all the world’s dis-
tinguished pugilists are Irish, or of Irish extraction.
Paddy will fight for “conciliation,” or for devilment, or
merely “to oblige.” Mike was leaning an elbow on a
Sydney bar-counter, with his eyes fixed upon a hea'.v
weight placed against a door. Larry entered, and,
noticing the intent regards of his countryman, and follow-
ing the natural impulse of a strong man, walked over and
attempted to lift the weight. He failed. “Ye can't
do that, and ye can’t do anything,” said Mike, con- i
temptuojsly. “Oi can tell yez pwhat Oi can do,” j
said Larry, “Oi can bate you." “ Oya: well, it’ll
take some toime to settle the pint; so let’s have a
dhrink in the manetoime.” Carried, nem. con. They
had a dhrink together, and then adjourned “to the
back,” and crippled each other badly for six rounds.
At a private Hibernian merrymaking in Sydney, the other
day, where emulation to please was pretty general, the
host acco-ted one solitary, moping guest with—“ Well.
Patsy, let yez get tip and do something for the jineral
entertainment, me bhoy ; we know ye can do it?”
“Faix, no; this sort of thing is not much in nicy loine.” j
“Nonsense, man ; get up and have a dance?” “No, Oi ■
can’tshtepa bit.” “Oh, well, go and talk to the ladies.” !
“ Faix, an’ Oi’m not used to the game.” “ Well, cum an' ,
have a dhrink?” They drank, and Patsy retunud to Lite
corner. Presently the host rallied him again with—
“ Come on, man; Oi’m shure ye can'do something to
plaze the company. Will yez give us a song?” “Bcdad,
Oi can’t sing.” “ “Well, thin, give us a recitation?”
Palsy (in desperation to oblige): “Oi can’t rcsoite, noi-
sing, norshtep, hntOi’ll tell yez pliwat Oi will do - Oi'll
foight the hist (pogumthooj man in Hie room, av ye
loike?”
S. A. Rosa’s libel verdict of £l5 against
Sydney Truth carries costs, according to law.
The Cunard Co.’s new s.s. Campania, just
launched, will be of 19,000 tons displacement—
nearly as big as the Great Eastern.
Mr. F. W. Ward’s Sydney D.T. article on
Dibbs in London, gives the new knight a tremen-
dous political lift at a time when it will be appre-
ciated.
A Sydney Sunday paper alludes to
“Willis of the North Briton.” This is the
effect of a newspaper constantly “ boostin’” its
proprietor.
Shiels doth protest too much. He’s too
ready to resign office on the spot if he thought for
one moment that his bleeding country would be
all the better for the sacrifice.
“Genial pictorial banter,” says Labou-
chere, apropos his Christmas libels on the Rial
Phamilee. It was Boss Tweed who said : “ 1
don’t care what they write about me—it’s the
pictures as kills.”
The cholera infected Atlantic steamers are
now “cremating” their dead. That is to say—
they are calmly stoking them into the furnaces as
fuel. The world is governed by phrases.
Tenterfield (N.S.W.) the other day
presented Judge Fitzhnrdinge with a pair of white
kid gloves. For the first time in the district’s
record, its criminals have been too clever to be
found out.
The indications, at time of writing, are
that, when G. 11. Reid brings forward his motion
of censure against the N.S.W. Ministry, several
'Oppositionists will find it convenient to be absent
from the division, their private opinion being that
the move is premature and merely obstructive.
Reid has his team badly in hand.
In his reply to an unemployed deputation,
the other day, when he declined to countenance
co-operative contracts, and stupidly asked—
“ What difference is there between labour work-
ing for a contractor and labour working for the
Government?” N.S.W. Minister Lyne missed
the whole point. It is not a question of labour
working for a contractor versus labour working for
the Government. It is a question of the differ-
ence between labour working for a contractor and
labour working for itse'f. Maoriland has tested
the latter system u ith satisfactory results. The
difference is that the hand Ji<!e profits have been
divided proportionately among the bond Idle
workers, instead of there having been huge-faked-
profits for a few influential capitalists.
One of the anomalies of the Copyright
Law is instanced by the suit of one Jones v,
Nicholson and Co., in which the former seeks to
restrain the latter from publishing a piece of music
known as the “ Barn Dance,” on the grounds that
having secured the copyright in London the copy-
right by defendants in Melbourne is inoperative'.
Whichever way the judgment turns the result
should prove interesting to Australian authors,
as the Act, under present conditions, gives
to the person obtaining an English copyright the
same privilege in all British dependencies, while
conversely it is not allowable for a person obtain-
ing copyright in one of these dependencies to
restrain others from infringing his rights either in
the United Kingdom or in any of her depen-
dencies other than the one in which the copyright
1 was actually applied for !


Registered.
f
Registered
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NER¥E DISEASES.
J&p p !SE»? b< V2B
Esq^M
aK.
fat!
sli
GOLD MEDAL.
CURED
OVER 100,000
SUFFERERS
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED. AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DISCOVERED and REGrISTERED Toy
Herr
i'&JMtosmskii tsD'nHi
V’*'
:'o*MTOi<£NofCPATiTuqc c^' 1 ’
V s rwumciftts PArifirs n ; :
' '. ftumtTm*.' .if".
***£&& CP. S9<*;— ‘
r.'*;
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWOBN TESTIMONY-
Statutory
d
Declaration.
ITHOS. MU I) I MAX, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen's
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
PILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declai’e
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. W hiddon, Justice of the P°ace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed.— John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, C 4 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen —I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both inmycaseand in severalof my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you. —F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
eise of nervousness, wind biliousness of* several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.—A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Eli/.abeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.-J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir,—One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.— P. H. Kimm, Parer's
Crystal Cafe Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers ; I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold. — George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole
Proprietor,
iRSiI
. . ,
■ «
m
mi
m
*>
»
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Banish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of
N. S- Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 238. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes-Cs. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Od.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted Is Cd
3a, Os. and 235. Cd. ....
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes
posted,3s., Cs., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., Cs. and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.’
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and Cs.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Eeautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off Posted
3s. and Os. ’
Herr Kassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted. Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALKALINE REMEDIES to
toe Genuine.
Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of ner’
forming many great cures during the last few years as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin,
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly comnli,
mentary testimonials which he has received certifying- to
News ant cures effecfced b y his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to-
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
biated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
~ “ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to-
the Australian public to require any additional praise from.
1 ruth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to sav as a
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.). ’
It may not be out of place to mention that Hen
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them. Mr
Karnsden s case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “ doctors ” with no benefit what-
E .i |S re ir Ver T> R Under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies, Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish hima long life to continue his useful mission in the
cause of suffering humanity.’’-Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by Ids remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world—are assured that he lias saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”— The Australian Workman,
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
bo as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales. 1 he Essknden and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser.—lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily leleoraph, Tasmania.
Testimonials.
Tr _ Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmu sen,—Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, Vancocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost. Vitality, Errors of
\outh, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any Kind. Ordinary course, 235. 6d.
posted. Special powerful double course. 435. (id. posted. Boxes at
6s. and 12s. r
Chief Head Depot:
547 O-EOBG-E STREET,
SYDNEY.
tW" MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Head Depot:
150 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
car Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
QUEE 1ST STREET,
BRISBANE.
ty Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALKALINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE
“Tlx© 3V atura,! Doctor.”
A Valuable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. Posted, Is,
May be obtained from all Depots.
ORTAINED FROM THE AROVEMENTTONED DEPOTS.
Important.
Always send money by P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same,
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “ The Alfaline Medical
receipt of addressed and 2d. stamped envelope.
All correspondence
Guide,” sent free oni


Cool, mild and sweet, GN U N Darlings.
PARAMO
[** a splendid medicine for complaints of the
Liver and Kidneys.
MARUPA
Onres Asthma, Coughs, and all Bronchial
Affections.
NATANATA
Prevents and cures Diarrhoea, Vomiting and
General Sickness, whilst
KARANA
Is a most excellent Tonic, giving splendid tone to
the Stomach.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Hotel.
THE AUSTRALIA HOTEL,
(MKTLEKEAEH STREET, SYDNEY.
IJS ACKNOWLEDGED, by universal consent, to be the
PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA,
'nd worthy to compare with the best in Europe and
America. Tim Australia has had the honour to enter-
' tain some very illustrious visitors, amongst others—
Sh «", 1e Sara Bernhardt, H. M. Stanley, Max O’Rell, Lord
otiemeld, Nellie Parren, Fred. Leslie, Sir Henry Norman,
’ a * °* "’.horn have expressed their delight with the
ccominodation and attention shown them at Tun Aus-
-1 **vALIA.
y/ie Tariff includes all meals, and ranges
from 12s. Gd. per day.
Communications should be addressed to
THR MANAGER.
Politicians and Statesmen all smoke G N U N
Darlings.
ni
/ vT-
TONIC NERVINE
in ALL CHEMISTS
m
rf'OMo
IMPROVES DIGESTION
GIVES NERVE POWER tk
Anglo ScandinaviaTi
Cold Medal
Condensed
Acknowledged
The Best
Milk
Vft TH.M
r%
ST «
£
lua^a
•>
R
<v.MIC'.
jg2£|
> j.vsg
■ V
isCsii
nos
;
Js Always th& Rest
SURGEON LANGSTON,
3*
m
m
mm.
mm
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered In England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
° Ca C MO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
i Mylife-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
; insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
; Diseases. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY, FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Artsing from Indiscretion, Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects—Nervousness.
Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
Females, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to Marry',
Melancholy. Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forma, affecting Body, Nose. Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old S»res, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Bcmedies. Stiff and
Swollen Joints and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CUBES®. Soft feeling bunch of earth like
worms— TABICOCI3 UK, I* CURAiILG WITHOUT OPERATION by Surgeon
Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, price £2. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treat d successfully. llupturn
instantly relieved and permanently cured. Fits, Epilepsy ,or falling sickness radically cured. I use only the
best remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders ami apecious promised cure-alls— they
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with
skill in.a respectful manner; and knowing what to do, Ho Experiments are made. Home
Treatment. Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home.
Those requiring' Immediate Treatment can by forwarding particulars of their case
and £l, receive a course of treatment by return po,-t. Before confiding- your case else-
where, Consult the Old and Nnccessfnl Specialist, SUMGEOH I.A HGSTOH. Age
and experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden years to life. Ho mercury or poisonous drugs used.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., k.
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—The Onlv Ouallfled Surgeon piaetising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
(W CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Capo Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Cisco EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San .Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £O3 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
ffOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers. | Commander. Leave Sydney , Leave Mel-
at II a. m. ibourne4p.m
Oceanien .. Fiaschi .. September 25, ! September29
Polynesian .. L. Boulard ..lOctober 270ctober 31
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £63,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
Third
Class.
£3l
£3B
uugusu unci inemrs meeo inrougn passengers ror
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers' luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS
Oils,Colours 4 p A , NT $
WALLPAPERS
RAI
529 George Si> BathurstSt,
Brlckf/eld Hill .
T.
ALE
S. HALL & CO.’S
& ST OU T.
B O A R’S
HEAD
BRAND.
I RADE M/ RK.
BOAR’S
HEAD
BRAND.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
Fifteen Years Practice in Australia*
DR. H. E. KUGELMANN,
The Most Eminent and Experienced Herbal Practitioner
in Australia, may now be CONSULTED FREE at his
SYDNEY Branch Offices every Month at
Otis ” Chambers, 82 King Street,
SYDNEY
(Opposite the Sydney Arcade).
Take Elevator to Third Floor.
Following are the Days for BOTANIST this Year—
Thursdays and Fridays, 26th and 26th August; 22nd and
23rd September ; 20th and 21st October ; 17th and 18th
November; 15th ami Ibth December, and each month
thereafter. Ilours-Thursdays, 9 till 6; Fridays l) till
4 only ; and at Head Offices, MELBOURNE, 310 Flinders
Street (opposite Flinders Street Station) every Monday
and Tuesday, 9 till 4, and Monday Evenings, 7.30 till
9 p.m.
UNLIKE other DOCTORS, Mr. KUGELMANN can tell
his Patients what is the matter without being informed
of the nature of their Disease. All long-standing,
deeply-seated, and Internal, Chronic Diseases yield
readily to his new treatment without poisons or drugs.
Thousands have been Cured
By him during the Past 16 Years after all other Doctors
had given them up as hopeless. Sworn Certificates of
Cured Cases posted free anywhere.
If preferred, a Guarantee is given to Effect, a CURE for
a Stated Term.
Patients living at a distance can be treated equally
well through the post. Write for a self diagnosing
Chart free. Correspondence freely invited, absolutely
confidential. J
Another proof of the value of expert evi-
dence in caligraphy. During the London police-
court charges against Thomas Neill Cream,
. ecuaed of having poisoned a number of unfortu
"ate'women, luglis, the celebrated expert (why
celebrated, Heaven only knows), swore that
tain letters were in Neill’s own hand-writing,
but immediately afterwards it was incontestably
shown that they were in the handwriting of a girl
with whom Neill was “ on terms.”
A boundary rider on a station near Roma,
Q., was thrown from his horse against a tree,
breaking his leg near the thigh, and he was loft
helpless 25 miles from aid. With an ordinary
clasp-knife he set to work to cut down a sapling
ami by next day had felled it, and improvised
splints and a crutch, when a passing horseman
picked him up just as he was starting for his trip.
Sir Algernon Borthwick, Part., the Royal
flunkey who runs the Morning Post, would have
been created a peer by Lord Salisbury, says the
cable, but for the doubt whether his constituency
would elect another Tory to his seat in the
Commons ! The manufacture of hereditary
legislators is indeed a noble industry.
PBMELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
Marupa Still Gaining
Ground.
A WELL-KNOWN COMMERCIAL GENTLEMAN
A GIVES HIS TESTIMONY.
Birmingham, England,
January 3rd. 1892.
Mr. O. I. Kempthorne.
Dear Sir, —You will remember the bad cold and
sore throat I had when leaving New Zealand for
England. Well, thanks to that “Maori stuff”
you gave me, I got all right before reaching the
Bluff. , , .
I really must congratulate you on having
dropped on such a good thing. Its effect on me
was wonderful, and I doctored several people on
the steamer, who were suffering with influenza,
with the Marnpa, and in each case I put them
light in no time.
I am sorry to say that I have not a drop left,
but shall get you to give me a supply when I
ireturn to New Zealand ; and I never intend doing
without it in future. When my throat has been
bad, and I have had to sing, I took Marnpa, and
■consider it a splendid thing for anyone with a
voice.
I wish you good luck with it, but the thing is
bound to sell well.
Yours very truly,
A. J. Chamberlin.
Lyell, May 27, 1892.
Messrs. Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.,
Wellington.
Gentlemen, —I am pleased to inform you that I
nave sold all the Marupa you sent me, and more
pleased to tell you that not in one single instance
has it failed to give relief, or, to put it in the
words of a highly respectable lady of this town,
whose husband had not had one hour’s sleep for
several nights, notwithstanding several prescrip-
tions from doctors, which gave no relief. The
first teaspoonful of Marupa he took acted like
magic, giving immediate relief, and he went to
•sleep, and had a comfortable night’s rest, a thing
'unknown to him for the last month.
Please send six dozen Marupa at first oppor-
tunity, and oblige.
Yours faithfully,
J. FENNELL.
A TRIP UP THE WANGANUI RIVER.
FROM THE OTAGO WITNESS.
When we reached Hruharama (Jerusalem) we
went ashore to pay our respects to Sister Mary
Joseph, whose name and fame have recently been
blazoned forth in the chemists’ shops and advertis-
ing columns of the newspapers of the Colony.
We found the old . lady at home dispensing
medicinal aid to a number of waiting Natives
in front of the mission buildings, where there
is a level grassy space overshadowed by well-
grown oaks of no inconsiderable size. We
found her a pleasant, shrewd, old French-
woman, speaking English with a slight
foreign accent, and she received us graciously.
•Asking us to excuse her for a few minutes, she
attended to the wants of the waiting Maoris, and
'then invited us to inspect the schoolroom. She
informed us that it was a difficult matter to do
much with the Maori children, as they are sub-
jected to little, if any, parental control, being free
'to go to school or run wild as they list, and they
•choose the latter alternative —as I fear most child-
wen, whether white or dusky, would if left to their
own sweet will. The good sisters, of whom there
;are eight, have some half-dozen white children of
vicious parents as the nucleus of their school, and
we saw these children at play in the sunshine,
Hooking healthy and happy. The old lady in-
formed us that progress was rather slow, but that
they had influenced the Maoris for good. A neat
ilittle church, svith a lofty, tapering spire, stands
on an elevation above the village, forming a
pleasing feature in the landscape, and is a monu-
ment to the self-denying labours of the sisterhood
by means of which tha funds have been recently
provided for its erection, the former church having
been burnt down not long ago. Besides the nuns
there is a missionary priest resident here, who
occasionally visits Ranana, where there is also a
little church. The rev. father has also another
flock besides his dusky parishioners, as he owns
700 acres of land, which he has acquired from the
natives, and which has been cleared of bush and
sown down in English grass. Sister Mary
hospitably presented us with some enormous
and delicious apples, besides a glass of raspberry
vinegar and water.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Kaiser William smokes G N U N Darlings.
rpOWN HALL.
Under the Direction of Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 8,
First appearance in Sydney of the famous
OVIDE MUSIN CONCERT COMPANY.
Mr. Williamson begs to announce a series of Four
Grand Concerts by this unequalled organisation.
THURSDAY, September 8 SATURDAY, September 10.
THURSDAY, September 15 SATURDAY, September 17.
Programme of the First Concert, THURSDAY,
September 8.
PART I.
1. Valse from Gounod’s “ Faust " .. Liszt
EDUARD SCHARF.
2. Air and Variations Proch
ANNIE LOUISE TANNER MUSIN.
3. “ Souvenir de Haydn ” Leonard
OVIDE MUSIN.
i. Two Songs—
(a) “The Vow” MeverHelmund
(b) “ Parla Waltz ” .. .. Arditi
ANNIE LOUISE TANNER MUSIN.
PART 11.
5. Andante and Gavote F. Rie
OVIDE MUSIN.
6. Soli for Piano—
(a) “Norwegian Bridal Procession” Greig
(Passing by).
(b) Mazurka Godard
EDUARD SCHARF.
7. Air from “PreauxClercs”(for S 'prana
and Violin Obligato) .. .. Harold
ANNIE LOUISE TANNER MUSIN and OVIDE
MUSIN.
8. Rigandon Raft
EDUARD SCHARF.
9. Bravura Variations on a Theme of
Rossini’s “Moses”(on onestringonlv) Paganini
OVIDE MUSIN.
Box Plan now Open at Paling’s Music Warehouse.
Prices of Admission : Balcony Seats (Reserved), 3s. ;
Body of Hall, 2s. and Is.
FABIUS FERAUD, Business Manager.
The members of the temora
AMATEUR DRAMATIC CLUB will
produce on the two Show Nights, SEPT. 14 & 15,
“The Flowers of the Forest” and “Under the
I**
d
Tiie poor llarinaid having
a little bit of supper after
I her hard day’s work !
, Now read ii, post free Is Cd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M'bn. PANZA, Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
the imperial arcade hotel
(From Pitt-street to Castle-
reajjh-street),
Between Kin 9 1 Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
|iwg!jp;~
f sF!
I
w .v-aBBTr K
S ir=»!S
:za Ir^i —
ks_
•1 wi?
■ i
pEIFiIFI
IllWtllhV *|il iv
Ofeji
m
-
SOME
r
r
am
sSSS TOa!
fzm
!■"
5 -
W/A
KTI
2S»
IMMh
i
■n
•II
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY.
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
(I la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Weddintr Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
&ODOliStf Manager^
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial HoteF,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
Pilling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Brillian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very econom cal for general use; it is
the best softener and beantifier of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Sizes 3<. Gd., 75., and 10s. G d.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONlAisapureand
fragrant toilet powder in three tints—white,
rose and Cream. Boxes Is and 2s. Gd. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
THE SECRET
—OF A
BEAUTIFUL FACE.
The Recipe used by Queen Caroline for the
SKIN will remove FRECKLES, SUNBURN
and PIMPLES, and produce the Clear, Natural
Bloom of Youth. A positive saving of £2 a year.
Send Is. in stamps. L. M. LIVINGSTONE,
North Shore P.O.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, September 6, 1892.
f I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department untilllo'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
Bridge, Ournie Creek, road Bowna to Welare-
gang
Bridge, Page River, at Pethick’s Crossing
Construction of Open Shed on Wharf at Coraki,
Richmond River
Construction of Passenger Jetty, Tweed River
Heads
Bridge, Foxall’s Creek, road Goulburn to Marulan
Reeaulking Floors, &c., Hospital for the Insane,
Cal lan Park
Erection of Cottages, Goffs Harbr and Wool-
goolga
Pipe Laying, Moama Water Supply
Bridge, Otley’s Creek, road Wallengra to Goona-
windi
Bridge, Campbell River at Lagoon, road O Con-
nell to Perth Railway Station
Bridge, Boomi Creek, road Goongolun to Bre-
warrina (fresh tenders)
Construction of Long Cove Creek, Stormwater
Channel (Contract 80, Sydney Sewerage)
Erection of Coaling Wharf and Extension of pre-
sent Wharf, Garden Island
Fencing at Neutral Bay Reclamation Works
Obley's
New Coal Store, Garden Island
Additions Lockup, Molong
Electric Light Installation, Docks, Cockatoo
Island
Erection of Weigh Bridges, Railway, Culcairn to
Corowa
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5.
Bridge, Box Creek, road Oxley to Tarrawong
Supply of Cast-iron Water Pipes and Special
Castings, Bathurst Water Supply
Bridge, Coolac Creek, road Yass to Gundagai
Bridge, Greenwattle Creek, road Dumnore to
Clarence Town
Bridge, Moogin Creek, road Dumnore to Clarence
Town
Bridge, Bartie Creek, road Dunraore to Dnngog
Bridge, Hanley’s Creek, road Dnnmore to Dungog
Repairs Post and Telegraph Office, Wentworth
Erection of Lands Office, Mcyee
Erection of Police Quarters, Bowna
Bridge, Bungonia Creek, at Bungonia
Erection of Cottage, Pilot Point, Richmond River
Bridge, Skinner’s Gully, road Moree to Mungindi
Bridge, Dead man’s Creek, road Dumnore to
Clarence Town
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19.
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c., Jerilderie Water
Supply
Supply of about 20,000 tons Cast-iron Pipes,
to be manufactured in New South Wales
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes and Special Castings,
&c., Dubbo Water Supply
Bridge, Terrebola Creek, road Goodooga to Bre-
warrina
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tocumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to bo manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
General Post-office,
Sydney, sth. September, 1892.
Attention is directed to Gazette Notice inviting
Tenders for the conveyance of mails between Bega
and Eden ; Gladstone and Loftus Bridge, and
Rook wood and Upper Bankstown. Tenders will
be received up to 11 a.m. on the 21st. instant, and
must be addressed to ,the Secretary to the Post-
office, Sydney.
JOHN KIDD.
///
Wt I /
m
r
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party : “ Why didn’t you keep to
Roberts on’s Whisky ? Look at me ! I
drink nothing else ! ”
iEP'” Coupons with Every Case.
A BRILLIANT COMPLEXION
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
Vanish, like 3VEagic
By a few applications of
professor ge van’s Complexion Lotion.
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
clear the face of all that is unsightly, but one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. Beware of worthless counterfeits-they
are both useless and dangerous.
ss. (id. per Hot He, carriage paid, and full directions
sent.
Prof. DEVON,
20 Castleheagii Street (City), SYDNEY.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can oiler special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most fa vour-
able terms, at rate which can bo ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Vkntus Tkvitus Calor /EQUALIS
Cellular Underclothing'.
“ A positive Safeguard Against Chills.”
Recommended by Medical Profession after
Practical Test and Experience.
SINGLETS or PANTS, :ss. Od.
Made from Finest Quality Wool and Closely
Woven.
INSPECTION INVITED.
BRAHAM and MUTCH,
TAILORS AND OUTFITTERS,
75 King Street, Sydney.
Miscellaneous-.
FAC-SIMILEs
Of the beautiful Academy Picture
“HEADS OVER TAILS”
Rv .Miss DOROTHY TENNANT, ’
Which created Mich a sensation in Eondon n., i
cl tained (until further notice), FREE OF COST v
forwarding to 01 * b Y
LBVESi BROS., l t »
Clar ncc Street, Sydney,
25 SUNLIGHT SOAP WRAPPERS,
With 50 it Kill be Framed , and with 100 TFiv/n.L.
Framed in Gilt. r,a mn
This Picture is fit for any Drawing-room
Fifty (1(5 Silver and 31 Keyless) Watches win i
«aven the (garter ending 30th June to Roys ami GiVi®
aaed from 1.1 to 14, who send in the most SUNT irml
SOAP WRAPPERS. If not successful one quarter h.!
Coupons will lie carried forward to the next sn inA „
who try may get a''prize. ’ lnat all
ti«U> .11 EDI I, PAltli IvXIimiTIOV, J 88»
Your Clothes last longer with its use
NO ROUGH HANDS WITH SUNLIGHT SOAP
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Solo Wholesale
olden
Sporting.
6 DON’TS.
ONTgo to a racecourse
|ONT bet on the races
ONT own a racehorse
ONT be a breeder
ONT be a trainer
'ONT be a jockey
Without having in your Pocket a Copy of
J. J. FILLER’S Sporting Pamphlet.
Price Is. Ask your Newsdealer for it.
Gala’s Monster Prize List,
CAULFIELD C.-Oct. 15.
' At 5 eacl). (50,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 5000; Second, 1250; Third, 1000; S (d), 1000-
N S (d), 1150 ; 10 at 100, 1000 ; 10 at 50, 500 ; 10 at 2o’
200 ;50 at 10, 500 ; 50 at 5, 250; 100 consolations at 2;
350 consolations at 1.
MELBOURNE C—Nov. 1.
At 5 each. (100,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10,000; Second, 2500; Third, 1500; S (d), 2000 •
N S (d), 2500 ; 20 at 100, 2000 ; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 20 at 20,
400 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 consolations at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
Slate amount enclosed, and addressed envelopes with
application—one for receipt and the other for result.
Register. Address : GALA, c.o. 11. Alexander, 07 Oxford-
j stmt, Sydney, N.S.W. For full particulars send for our
printed circulars.
JATTERSAL L’S
METROPOLITAN STAKES.
Run at Hand wick, September 13, 1892.
10.000 atjo 10,000
Caulfleld Cup.
Run at Caulfield, in October, 1892.
50.000 at 10 50,000
MiELBOURIXTE CUP.
Run at Flemington, November !, 1892.
100,000 at 20 100.000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
J'W” Address— “TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Taltcrsall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GALA’S MONSTER CONSULTATIONS.
MODE OF DRAWING FOR 100,000 TICKETS.
Five barrels arc placed on a revolving cylinder. In each barrel ten marbles are placed, numbered
oto i). A person stationed in front of each barrel simultaneously draws a marble, which is shown to the
scrutineers. The numbers in the barrels represent as under, and in the same order •
To show that the low numbers have exactly the same chance as the high ones, take, for example,
Ticket numbered 7. From the first barrel a 0 must be picked, from the second a 0, from the third aO,
from the fourth aO, and from the fifth a 7. At the first glance it might appear that the four o’s have a
less chance of being drawn than any other number, say 78,088, but this is not so, as to pick this number
you must draw from the first barrel a 7, from the second an 8, from the third a 6, from the fourth an 8,
and from the fifth an 8. ...
There being but ten marbles in each barrel, marked 0 to 9, the chances are just as much that you will
pick an oasa 7 or any other number, as the proportion against any individual number is 9to I. This
rule applies to each barrel. When the horses are being drawn for, a separate barrel is added. The small
number of marbles in each barrel permits them to be thoroughly and easily shaken up, which cannot be
done when 100,000 marbles are together. ,
The system prevents any possible chance of fraud and collusion, as ten marbles can be easily seen ana
counted by all present. It is distinctly understood that should a number be drawn more than once for
the same prize the number can only be counted once, but each ticket, has one chance in every prize. Ine
ticket numbered 100,000 is not issued, but is replaced by a ticket numbered 0. . .
When a drawing of less than 100,000 takes place the marbles in the first barrel are proportionately
Ad need in number. The drawing takes place in the presence of the press and of subscribers.
NOW OPEN —CAULFIELD CUP. 50,000 at 5/-, MELBOURNE CUP, 100,000 at 5/-
Address:—“GALA." c.0.-H. Alexander, 64 Oxford Street, Sydney.
OVER 20 YEARS before the PUBLIC of NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOUTH WALES.
ADAM BEDE
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER, all the YEAR round on PRINCIPAL EVENTS.
METROPOLITAN STAKES-Run at Randwick, September 13, 1802.
MELBOURNE CUP
\ 25,000 .at lO.—Fleinington, Nov. 1, 1802.
J 20,000 at 20.—-Flemington, Nov. 1, 1802.
Be sure and Register your letters and take care of the P.O. receipt till you receive our reply-
please enclose self-addressed envelopes and stamps for reply and result.
Address —“ADAM IiEDE," Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Proymmmes on Application.
TATTERS ALL’S MELBOURNE CUR
RUN at FLEMINGTOKT, Ist NOVEMBER, 1892.
100,000 AT 20 100,000
BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS. AND TAKE CARE OF
THE r.U. RECEIPT TILL YOU GET OUR REPLY.
000‘0S 01 « 000‘09
AI)I»UF,-SS:
TATTEiISALL," ca»c of Gbohok Auajis, Hotei, SYDNEY, N.S.
john davies, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), is “ agin ”
one-man-one-vote.
Professor Vambery : “ The Muscovite
knife is nearing England’s throat.”
Accordingtothecaptain ofH.M.S. Royalist,
which lias just returned from stealing islands in
the South Seas, to such an extent does (missionary)
religion prevail at Gonoatoa that every man,
woman, or child on that island who does not go
to church at least three times a week is liable to
be arrested and fined, the fine going to the King.
In the same group of pious islands the flogging of
women is in vogue. Good old missionary religion
lineal descendant of the ancient Gospel and
Gridiron !
The Broken Hill (N.S.W.) strike-com-
mittee has established a e'othing depot, at which
a number of girls are employed at making gar-
ments for distribution amongst the families of
the strikers. All provisioning of the unionists is
also attended to by the committee, and every
case of sickness is at once reported to head-
quarters and relief afforded. If this Barrier strike
will only burn into the hearts of unionists the
enormous efficacy of co-operation, all its present
misery will be more than counterbalanced by the
future advantages that will flow from a recogni-
tion of its economic revelations. Co-operation,
rightly generalled, could, years ago, have made
unionist miners owners of the bulk of the Broken
Hill silver shares, and absolute dictators on
matters connected with the working of the mines.
The “ comma bacillus ” of cholera is so
called because it comes before a full step.
The “ National Ass ” again :—
The offlce-ruler with which Mr. E. B. Colton assaulted
Mr. H. Sleath in the A.J.S. Bank has been mounted liy
Mr. Cotton’s friends in solid silver. It is a beautiful thing,
encased in a polished cedar velvet-lined casket.
Mr. Cotton evidently isn’t very particular about
his friends, and has a peculiar taste in the matter
of relics. The Bulletin hereby invit* s subscrip-
tions for the purpose of .acquiring the hearth-stone
which Deeming put on top of his wife and pre-
senting it to someone with a frill round it.


CLARKE’S PATENT
The
Burglar’s Horror
tH t
fd
P PJ
mK
NIGHT
LIGHT.
CO
LcJ
CC
os
>-«
cu
o
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE PATENT
PLASTER FIRE-PROOF CASE.
For Burning in
Clarke’s “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp.
CAUTION.
TO PREVENT BURGLARIES.—A
“Pyramid ” Night Light should be lighted in the
front and back of every house as soon as it is dark.
Housebreakers have the greatest dread of a light.
The police recommend a “ Pyramid ” Night Light
as the best safe-guard. Almost all the burglaries
perpetrated might have been prevented and much
VALUABLE PROPERTY SAVED, if this
simple and inexpensive plan had always been
adopted. The “Pyramid” Night Lights are
much larger and give DOUBLE THE LIGHT
of the common night lights, and are therefore
particularly adapted for this purpose. Manufac-
tured in Patent Fire-proof Plaster Cases. No
paraffin or other dangerous material used in their
manufacture.
“PYRAMID" & DOUBLE WICK
CLARKES
PATENT
1)7
ij
r*
F\
v\||\
\ 1
V)
5*
a 7T/% '
f
■
■I
I
CT
'I
I. ° F
s
df
d
SIZE OF LIGHT.
FOR nr AND OUT-DOOR ILLUMINATIONS.
Each Box contains 6 Double-Wick “FAIRY” Lights (burn 10 hours each), and Glass for burning in.
CLARKES PATENT “ FAIRY ” LAMPS
FOR DECORATIVE LIGHTING, BALL AND DRAWING ROOMS, &o.
FAIRY LIGHTS.
CLAREB’S
NEWLY DESIGNED
“Pyramid” Nursery Lamp
FOOD WARMER,
With New Registered Pannikin,
INCLUDING
Burglar’s Horror Lamp
BURGLAR’S HORROR LAMP.
□
■ i
USHIIWJ’
SHaSSi
r»« '«*”
C>:>»AIA\T3«V
PYR
l*m\
poop.
BURGLAR'S HORROR LAMP.
CLARKE’S Improved PAMIKIN
(REGISTERED)
FOR USB WITH
CLARKE'S PYRAMID NURSERY LAMP.
By this invention any liquid food can be poured
out or drunk without scum or grease passing
through the spout, and prevents spilling when
poured into a Feeding Bottle, so objectionable
with all other Pannikins. These Pannikins will
fit all the old “Pyramid ” Nursery Lamps, and
can be purchased separately.
N.8.-Ask for CLARKE’S PANNIKIN, and
see that his name and the registered number
(registered 91,241) is on the Pannikin, and Trade
Mark “Pyramid.” Clarke’s Patent PYRAMID
NIGHT LIGHTS are the only Lights suitable
for these Lamps.
SOLD BY ALL THE LEADING RETAIL HOUSES.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: Francis Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Wolfk’s Schnapps.— Pure, Palatable, Perfect
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love
and cooling as his fan.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
Battered Bob.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He was working on a station in the Western when
I knew him,
And he came from Conongamo, up the old
surveyors’ track,
And the fellows all admitted that no man in Vic.
could do him,
Since he’d belted grease and sawdust out of
Anderson, the black.
Bob was modelled for a fighter, though he’d run to
beef a trifle;
For his science every rouseabont was satisfied to
vouch,
And Red Fogarty advised us he delivered like a
rifle,
And his stopping—well, beside him Harry
Sallars was a slouch.
Not a man of us had met him till he struck us on
the station—
This was early in the Sixties, what we call the
good old days—
And it here must be acknowledged Robert owed
his reputation
To a crippled jaw, a broken nose, and eyes that
looked both ways.
3irs, the way that chap was butchered was a
caution and no error,
Every feature of his face was marked, his chin
was pulled askew,
And The Critic passed the office : “ Bet your
buttons he's a terror !
That’s the man who hammered Kelly on The
Creek in ’52 ! ”
Bob was not a shrinking blossom, and he helped
the first impressions
By his subsequent admissions to the ringers and
the mugs,
And he let himself be tickled into casual confes-
sions
Of his battles with the bruisers and the scientific
pugs.
How he’d mangled Matty Hardy was his earliest
narration;
He’d completely flummoxed Kitchen, and had
r made the climate hot
for Timmins, Fee, and Curran. It was quite a
consolation
When he graciously informed us that.he hadn’t
licked the lot.
Lie arrival of the Wonder gave a spurt to local
science,
And we had an exhibition every evening in the
Week,
for the lightest joke was answered in the lingo of
defiance,
And our blood was oast like water on the grasses
by the creek.
Kvery fellow but the stranger had his scrap or
rough-and-tumble,
No one thought of looking ugly at the slugger,
Battered Bob,
And whene’er the boys addressed him ’twas in
r . language choice and humble ;
I hough they ached to see him taken on not one
there loved the job.
How we honoured Bob, and yielded to his later
information;
Lot him lead in all the arguments, and gently
. run the ranohe 1
nd a very “small pertater ” was the owner of
the station
’Side the man who slaughtered Melody and
fought a draw with Blanche.
Battered Bob became our champion, our boss, and
by degrees we
Sent his fame down to the Wannon, and right
up to Spooner’s Gap,
But he’d scooped the honours smiling, and he held
them just as easy,
For we’d never seen him shape yet, and he
hadn’t fought a tap.
We’d a cook whose name was Han Oat—he was
short, and fat, and yellow,
A common, ugly Chinky, with a constant
current smile.
Bob was careful not to hurt the corns of any other
fellow,
But he filled Han Cat with sorrow, and he
whaled him all the while.
Han Cat groaned and bore it meekly, and we
didn’t care to figure
In any of the Wonder’s little, pet partic’lar
rows.
Robert says, “I like a native, and I’ll liquor with
a nigger,
But I hate the skin and colour of these san-
guinary Chows!”
One Sunday Bob was sportive, and he took and
sliced a section
Off the pig-tail of the pagan—’twas Han’s glory
and his pride—
But the trouble that came after is his saddest
recollection,
And the boys were so disgusted that they very
nearly died.
Han Cat howled a spell, and then he up and
scowled as black as thunder,
And he cursed the grinning spoiler till he had
to stop for breath.
When he clubbed his dukes, and pranced a bit,
and waltzed into the wonder,
We made a ring, and waited for the heathen’s
sudden death.
Oh ! the sorrow of that Sunday ! Oh ! the shame
and degradation !
The chaps were simply paralyzed, and everyone
was dumb,
For the heathen pushed the battle in the fashion
of our nation,
And when he swung his mud-hooks in ho made
the Wonder hum.
“Bub’s gammoning the Chow,”we thought, “he’ll
wake things in a minute—
Soon he’ll rise to the occasion, and display his
prqper form !”
But, alas ! we’d nursed a viper, for our pug. was
never in it,
He couldn’t fight quite well enough to keep the
monkey warm.
Han Oat licked our battered champion, he whipped
him into silence,
And he spread him round the paddock like a
dummy stuffed with hair,
And we never stirred to interfere and stop the
Chinky’s vi’lenco
When he jumped upon the Wonder in a manner
most unfair.
You must fancy all our sorrow, and our snaino
and indignation, ,
For pen can never, never tell how really bad- wo
felt. ;
111 the morning Little Finney, for the credit of the
station,
Gave Han a proper hiding with one fist tucked
in his belt.
As for Battered, we discussed him in a solemn
close convention,
And resolved that we were victims of a shicer’s
awful skite,
And we put it up to tar him, but he dropped to
our intention,
And he skipped, without a character, for Hamil-
ton that night.
There’s a moral, boys : Don’t think a mangled
boko is a token
That a fellow is a fighter, as a simple thing of
course,
Like Battered Bob, he maybe had his features piled
and broken
Through lying down when drunk and being
walked on by a horse.
EDWARD DYSON.
“ The stern, hard-featured strong-minded?
dowdily-dressed, and emancipated one, beautiful
in her enthusiasm but in nothing else—a politi-
cian because she cannot be a wife.” — London
Referee.
Dear Bulletin, —Thirteen years ago,
Charlie Graham was mate-boss of a cedar-getters’
campon the Johnstone River (N.Q.) In those
days, Geraldton township had not been surveyed,
the scrub had never been defiled by sugar-planters
and Kanaka-slaves, the dense jungle-country was
possessed solely by the myalls. This solitary
camp of a dozen cedar-getters was about 10 miles
from the mouth of the river. The men roughed
out a genuine old bush-life—tucker consisting of
salt-beef, damper and tea, with monotonous regu-
larity, except for an odd meal of fish. Fever and
blacks were ever-present menaces. When the first
wet-season came on for the camp, all the men
took fever except Charlie and the cook. The
rations had run short, the camp was out of
quinine, and, to crown the desolation, the myalls
had stolen the white men’s only boat. Charlie and
the cook turned to with a will, and hollowed out a
huge cedar log as a sort of rude canoe, fitting it
with a light mast and a tent-fly for sail. This feat
was accomplished in two days. At nightfall,
Charlie Graham started on a lonely voyage, in-
tending to make for Cairns. After drifting down
to the bar, and getting outside some 10 miles into
the open, a K.E. wind sprang up, and presently
increased to half-a-gale. Charlie had to scud
before it, and dauntlessly steered for Port Douglas,
(iO miles off, the lubberly canoe threatening to
turn turtle in every trough of the sea and at every
fresh gust. Early on the second morning the
bathers on the south beach at Port Douglas were
astonished to see a curious-looking craft making
straight inshore. Swiftly she came on the crest
of a roller—swirl—crash—mast and man overboard
—dug-out rolling over and over frothily in the
surge. Excited men hauled out Charlie more dead
than alive, and toted him up to the nearest dwell-
ing. Ho brightened up quickly, and told his yarn
and his mission. The same evening he left Port
Douglas for the Johnstone in a first-class sailing-
boat, well stocked with medicines and rations, and
reached his camp safely four days later. The ten
fever-stricken men were very low. but they all (I
believe) recovered. . . .'. Not long ago, in a
West Queensland township, I saw the funeral of a
man who had challenged the Evermore by his own
ae*" It was the funeral of brave-hearted Charlie
Graharr. —Yours, Old Club.
One of our clergy was hurried the other
forenoon. He wedded a fashionable couple, then
had to scurry off to bury poor Mrs. Pauperson,
quick, for the wedding-breakfast was on.
Lord Hopetoun on the inherent excellence
of Victorian champagne is enough to make
Madame Clicquot die of laughing, if she isn’t dead
already. Hopetoun evidently thinks that fizz
requires but ordinary bottling, and that all you
have to do is to buy a full-bodied wine, “ when it
is so very new that one ought not to attempt to
drink it,” and put it in a cellar for an indefinite
period. There, he supposes, the fermenting liquor
will acquire “crust,” and “wing,” and improve
with age like port or sherry. Noble innocent! A
champagne that wants much keeping after it
leaves the maker's hands is not likely to improve
in an amateur’s cellar. It may turn sour, or burst
the bottle, or something, but it won’t throw off
bad stuff and fill up the vacuum with good stuff
until there is no more bad stuff to be got rid of.
Hopetoun has probably heard better judges than
himself rave over 25-year-old champagne, not
because of its age, but because the particular
vintage of the particular date was unusually good.
The same wine was quite as fit to drink, and
almost as fine (perhaps finer) in all respects when
it was first put on the market. Is £ £ Smith
listening ?
The quarantining of Lord Jersey and his
Countess on their recent arrival at Noumea was
an embarrassing necessity for the Governor of
New Caledonia. But the detention of the distin-
guished and welcome visitors was brief. A single
day sufficed to satisfy the requirements of the
law, and the subsequent attentions showered upon
the guests would speedily efface all uncomfortable
impressions. A far more awkward ease was that
of the Queensland Ministers who found it their
stern duty, on the arrival of Sir Arthur Kennedy
to assume the Governorship of the province, to
subject His Ex. and his charming daughter, Miss
Kennedy, to over a week’s detention in Moreton
Bay. TheunluckyMinistcrsdid the best theyeould.
They were sworn to enforce the laws, and they
proclaimed the Government steamer Kate a
“quarantine station,” and kept her skirmishing
all about the land-locked waters of the Bay at a
legal distance from all objects of interest on the
shore, while one devoted Minister went aboard—a
voluntary prisoner— to lighten the monotony and
tedium of the detained Governor and young lady.
But the law was peculiarly definite in some of its
provisions, and required that before any persons
once quarantined could be liberated, they should
submit to a bodily examination by a medical man.
The practice had been to have* a look at
the chest of the persons examined. The whole
business was wrecked on this. It was in vain
that the Health Officer, Dr. Challnoir, was sent
aboard, a reverend man with an imposing grey
beard, like a billygoat’s. Miss Kennedy posi-
tively declined to submit. Dr. Challnoir wagged
his beard in his most venerable and persuasive
manner, and his awkward situation made him look
ten years older than he was. Miss Kennedy
scoffed at his beard and considered him too young
at 80. Then the laws collapsed, the whole struc-
ture of the Queensland constitution was rent in
twain, and Miss Kennedy stepped ashore through
the gap—unshriven and unannealed.


Wolfe s Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations.
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe's Schnapps.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
Feel Well —Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Soothing and invigorating.
Wolfe’s Schnapps lias no injurious ingredients.
.fil-order with large bottle of Wolfe's Schnapps.
In the race for the great prize of
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead.
Nothing in modern times has been so copied
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
fd
1
fm
mmrnm.
i
%
\
■■ >.
V/jV.-.'
i
•K*
EpA^
& <£l, */ •
The Grog-an’-G-rumble Steeplechase
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
’Twixfc the coastline and the border lay the town
of Grog-an’-Grumble,
In the days before the bushman was a dull ’n’
heartless drudge,
An’ they say the local meeting was a drunken
rough and-tumble,
Which was ended pretty often by an inquest on
the judge—
An’ ’tis said the city talent very often caught a
tartar
In the Grog-an’-Grumble sportsman, ’n’ retired
with broken heads,
For the fortune, life, and safety of the Grog-au’-
G rumble starter
Mostly hung upon the finish of the local
thoroughbreds.
Pat M'Durmer was the owner of a horse they
called the Screamer,
An’ it was about the rurnrniest thoroughbred I
ever see,
And I think it’s very doubtful if the stomach-
troubled dreamer
Ever saw a more outrageous piece of equine
scenerie,
For his points were most decided, from his end
to his beginning,
He had eyes of different colour and his legs
they wasn’t mates
Pat M'Durmer said he always came “ widin a
flip av whinin',”
An’ his sire had come from England, ’n’ his
dam was from the States).
Friends would argue with M'Durmer, and they
said he was in error
To put up his horse the Screamer, for he’d lose
in any case,
And they said a city racer by the name of Holy
Terror
Was regarded as the winner of the coming
steeplechase;
But he said he had the knowledge to come in
when it was raining,
And irrelevantly mentioned that he knew the
time of day,
3o he rose in their opinion. It was noticed that
the training
Of the Screamer was conducted in a dark,
mysterious way.
Well, the day arrived in glory, ’twas a day of
jubilation
With careless-hearted bushmen for a hundred
miles around,
Am’ the rum ’n’ beer ’n’ whisky came in waggons
from the station,
An’ the Holy Terror talent were the first upon
the ground.
Judge M‘Ard —with whose opinion, it was scarcely
safe to wrestle —
Took his dangerous position on the bark-and-
sapling stand
He was what the local Stiggins used to speak of
as a “ wessel
Of wrath,” and he’d a bludgeon that he carried
in his hand).
‘Off ye go!’’ the starter shouted as down fell a
stupid jockey—
Off they started in disorder-left the jockey
where he lay—
And they fell and rolled and galloped down the
crooked course and rocky,
Till the pumping of the Screamer could be heard
mile away.
But he kept his legs and galloped ; he was used to
rugged courses,
And he lumbered down the gully till the ridge
began to quake;
And he ploughed along the siding, raising earth
till other horses
An’ their riders, too, were blinded by the dust-
cloud in his wake.
From the ruck he’d struggled slowly—they were
much surprised to find him
Close abeam of Holy Terror as along the flat
they tore —
Even higher still and denser rose the cloud of dust
behind him,
While in more divided splinters flew the
shattered rails before.
“Terror!” “Dead heat!” They were shouting—
“ Terror !” but the Screamer hung out
Nose to nose with Holy Terror as across the
creek they swung,
An’ M‘Dimmer shouted loudly, “ Put ycr tongue
out! put yer tongue out!”
An’ the Screamer put his tongue out and ho
won by half-a-tongue.
The decision was supported by the G-and-G com-
mittee
An’ a bodyguard selected from the drovers
round about.
There was one protest; ’twas entered by a sports-
man from the city,
But they dropped him in the river and forgot to
pull him out.
There was joy at Grog-an’-G rumble—there was
victory and glory,
An’ they drank and fought ’n’ shouted till the
town was whisky-blind.
Even after many summers those who lived to tell
the story
Got excited when they told it to the truthful
undersigned.
JOSEPH SWALLOW.
(Revised by Jimmy Nowlett.)
Victoria produces over 1,500,000 gal. wine
from 10,000 acres; South Australia, 510,000 gal.
from 7400 acres.
A correspondent asks • “ Which is the
better method of earning money? By thrippeny
beers? Or by six-an’-eightpences ?” Ask the
devil, but don’t bother me.—l)irso.
The Wellington correspondent of a Maori-
land paper announces : —“ Kimball Bent, a de-
serter from the 57th Regiment at the Maori war,
and a desperate character, is now in the city ; the
fact is kept dark, but much apprehension is felt
by the few who know it.” It seems like a slab of
ancient history to read this. The Maori war dates
away back among the dead ages, and the des-
perado of these times, who is keeping a city in
apprehension, must be a white-haired terror now
whom an average policeman could arrest with
one hand. It would be interesting to know what
this aged fiend is now suspected of. Possibly fears
are entertained that he may flay the Governor and
nail his skinless, eyeless, hairless carcase to the
gates of Government House.
The Speaker of the Maoriland House of
Representatives ruled the other day that Mr.
Fish was guilty of disrespect and insulting lan-
guage in alluding to Reeves (Minister for Justice
and Industry) as the “Ministah for Lab-ah,” the
peculiar accent on the last syllable of “Lab-ah”
being placed there for the purpose of arousing the
angry passions of the House and provoking a
breach of the peace. Then Fish wanted to know
whether he was to allude to the Chair as Mr.
“ Spoakher ” or as Mr. “Speakhaw,” but he was
snuffed out.
t Captain Armstrong, R IST., a very old
N.S.W. resident, has lately started a new fish-
preserving industry at Darling Harbour, Sydney,
in the hope of extinguishing the loathsome article
which is now imported from America in a metal
can. Among his productions are curried lobster,
curried shellfish, preserved garfish, crayfish, fish
biscuits, fish powder, fish paste, caviare—which is
produced at less than half importers’ prices—and
many other articles. He is furnished with testi-
monials from many leading firms attesting the
high quality of his goods, which, by the way, are
put up in glass jars instead of in the unwholesome
tin of commerce, whereby the canned and
ptomaineless fish can be inspected before purchase
as a guarantee of good faith.
A certain Australian Governor has a canoe
with a history. It was made by a local boat-
builder—a sturdy give-and-take sort of man, quite
a wag in his way. He used to treat the Governor
in an off-hand, delightfully droll fashion. The
Governor, on his first visit to the boat-shed, ex-
plained the lines on which he wanted the canoe
constructed. “ Sir,” said the builder, “ hit’s plain
to me ’ee don’t know much about hit; ’ee are a
Governor, not a boat-builder ; no man can teach
me how to make a canoe ; I’ll make ’ee one so light
that if ’ee can paddle hit ’eecan paddle hanythink;
I made a canoe for a ’ell of a swell cove not long
ago, but the first time he gets in hit, he no sooner
leaves the stagin’ than over he goes head hover tip
hinto the water. Some of these here coves
houghn’t to get hinto hanythink smaller than a
ship —they are like a blanky helephant in a boat.”
While the canoe was in course of construction the
Governor frequently visited the shed. He seemed
rather to enjoy the droll professional vanity of the
builder and would always suggest something, evi-
dently for the purpose of eliciting a curious
answer. “ No, sir, that hain’t no good ;
if I built hit that way you'd chuck hit
in the fire; a canoe haint a punt.” Once the
builder invited the Governor to witness a swim-
ming lesson. The builder’s eldest daughter—a
slim, wiry girl, arrayed in a pair of her father’s
trousers, stood upon the pontoon. The builder
tied a strong rope around her waist and gripped
one end of it; then he took her in his arms and
pitched her into the river with such force that
the Governor exclaimed, “Oh ! too bad ! ”
“ Why !” asked the boatman, “ are ’ee frightened
I’ll knock the bottom hout of the river?” The
girl rose to the surface and battled with the
waters of that large, open sewer. “Strike hout,
d n ’ee !” yelled her parent, “ Why the ’ell don’t
’ee strike hout as I tell ’ee?” When the girl was
exhausted, her father, at the Governor’s entreaty,
hauled her in. “Let me send you a life-buoy for
teaching her?” suggested the Governor. “ Won’t
ha’ no truck wi’ hit, people don’t ha’ no gear hon
like that when they fall hinto the water by bad
juck.”
The Curse of Deeming :
Stamford.— On the 2Tst August, at C 4 High-street
Windsor, John Stamford, the beloved husband of
Selina Mary Ann Stamford, after a long and painful
illness, aged 57.—The Ask, 22/8/’92. 1
Col. Champ is obifcuarisecl in Melbourne
This worthy man succeeded Legree Price, Tom’s
father, as Superintendent of Prisons, in Victoria
He was extremely handsome, and famed for p ro l
ducmg pretty daughters.
The Archduchess Stephanie, of Austria, i§
to be married again. Who can sort out the royal-
ties of Europe? Stephanie is the widowed
daughter-in-law of the Empress of Austria. H er
intended is Michael of Braganza, the bereaved
husband of the same Empress’s niece. Michael’s
sister is already married to Stephanie’s brother-in-
law, and Michael’s children by his first marriage
and his prospective children by his second
marriage, and his sister’s children by her marriage
with her brother’s second wife’s brother-in-law—
but the relationships in the great Austrian idiot-
factory are getting too badly mixed to be followed
any further.
Why doesn’t some Australian legislature
pass a law providing that every bank-manager
director, clerk, or other official, every trustee’
official assignee, member of a syndicate, solicitor’
legislator—everybody, in fact, holding a position
of trust, shall be clean-shaven and wear his hair
cut short? At present the Government waits to
shave these individuals and cut their hair until
they are found out and landed in gaol. Then it is
discovered that the solid, respectable-looking per-
son whose countenance seemed a guarantee of the
honesty of the institution which he conducted
has a brutal, slouching, cynical mouth and a
prize-fighter’s jaw—only his beard and moustache
concealed them, and that he owns, where his
flowing locks used to be, a low, retreating forehead
and a conical cranium that are the very embodi-
ment of vice. If he had been shaved at an earlier
stage of his career nobody would have trusted him
with a cent, and his immense swindle would never
have come off. The writer knows a big institution
in Sydney with an immense amount in deposits,
which would be rushed to-morrow —and rightfully
so—if the board of directors were only shaved
and the day after to-morrow the shareholders
would rise up as one man and demand an im-
mediate investigation by two clean-shaved audi-
tors. For one of the directors has a forehead
that slopes straight back from a pair of eyes
that are too close together, right to the
top of his head, only the villainous angle is toned
down by his overflowing silvery hair, and a stray
lock that hangs down carelessly prevents anyone
observing how his eyes are situated. Another
has a long, dreary, weeping, horse-countenance,
which would damn any company, only it is arti-
ficially widened by his whiskers ; and another has
no chin at all; and yet another has a brutal
mouth which —if it were not concealed by his
beard—would induce any policeman to arrest him
for contemplating a breach of the peace. When
The Bulletin considers this crowd it rises to
construct a new proverb, and it is this : “Think
no man honest till he is shaved.”


Medical.
NERVOUS ME
d
EUREKA
5
ELECTRIC BELT
\\
v
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
bISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete ■with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
onwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Fains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts or 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to bo. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three mouths.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postage, p
Address
VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, O. P. 0., Syonkv.
m
ES
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
and favourably known as a successful specialist
in all Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address Mrs. G. WOOD, 105 Berkley
Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
TLe Marvel of (lie Age!
\rsr
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CUKES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Kurns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cures “ BarcooKot ’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Fanners
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia-see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale:
Australian Drug Co.
Drapery.
INDISPENSABLE FOR ANY LADY,
TEUFEL’S DIANA BELT.
Infinitely Superior to the Sanitary Towels.
Comfortable & Reliable.
No Discomfort t No Chapin y ! No Chill !
Sold by
Drapers, Ladies’ Outfitters, axd Chemists.
Sole Agent for Australasia (wholesale only)—
P. PIC K,
9 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY;
314 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
feasv Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles Ss Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
G. H. SMITH & SOW,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—SOLE AGENTS FOR—
HENRA HEATH, COS, GOT, 609 Oxford Street, LONDON
m*.
G-DEISrTILIEnyiIIEIISr'S HATS.
OF EVERY KIND.
tadies’Club Straw Hats for Yachting, Boating an Tennis
joosM' ll S&' cs
J Wanted to send for particulars of (Bn'OLISH) ♦
■4 Tansy Pills, '•which are hotter than Steel or
* Pennyroyal. Cures obstructions from whatever 4
!♦ cause. Never fails. No pills or powders like ♦
4 them. Particulars free. [Mention this paper. 4
♦ W. Cavendish, P.O. Box 161, Melbourne. *
Medical.
A.PATERSON
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Em,
201
{Macquarie Street North
(Opposite Parliament House)
Sydney.
} 201
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
CD
HRONIC,
\J E R VO US
and
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
E'hiburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
a dical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old.
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex*
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor,sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, eroundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own home?, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “ Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Gdinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorder,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be fourtd
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
(heir use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS ” tes'.ified
continually by members of all classes of society , and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecharu’s Magic
Cough
Pills.
As a reined v for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchi
Vff.it pus. Hoarsen, ss, Shortness of Breath, Tiglitne
nd Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, «kc., these Pills
tand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
nd.lic and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
L iid difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
i Blent of rest. Let any person give Bkkciiam s Colgh
*iLi,.s a trial and the most violent Cough will in «
bort time be removed.
Prepared onlv, and so’d Wholesale and Retail, bv the
>ro,.mtor, Thomas B-.cuun, St. Helens, Lancashire,
•burial.d, in boxes Is. lid. (containing oO pills), and at
’s. i)d. Hieble quantity). ,
Sold by all D.uggists and Patent Medicine Dsalei
' pull directions are giv en with each box.
PATENT
PILLS.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO Aa
~ Free prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ and Life/
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c._ A
inarea j
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes re grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious.
&
X
$
N
o
ImIMhI
n
B
r TIIIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSJU,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSS. By Post 3s. 6d.
fW Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
V
)Vj
'V Y
m w
HRUPP
&J-VANIC CHA\N
* Vo*
IF 80,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE Kitll I*l* GALVANIC CHAIN BELT,
all agree in praising that most scientific of Electro-Thera*
peutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is unrivalled.
Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The Nervous
are strengthened, and the Debilitated restored to perfect
health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an unfailing
cure for all Nervous, Sexual or Chronic Diseases, and is
GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, completely and
lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and
Chest, Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb
Ague, Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney
Complaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness,
Diseases of the Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weak-
ness, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Sperma-
torrhoea, Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart
Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes; therefore, why waste
your money and frealth by procuring and taking USELESS
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading' and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to give perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatisealso contains facsimiles of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. The
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
The prices of the Kiupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager ... A. W. Courtnet.
Add less all communications to the
KUIIPP GaLVANI I CHAIN BELT tO,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost.
ULASC
tbScoT
Whisky
z!£ s MemziesTG¥)Cscow
“Hill
WITH”
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent!
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
Business Announcements.
f
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s. to 14s i 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street- Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
SB
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.*'
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 & 082 George Street, Sydney.
sftVE^
qU |§r?nding
RO/a
ft Pleasure t 0 |
KROPF
I
Mr. HENRY
IRVINGr writes
“ I find your
Razors excel-
lent
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
RAZOR
ALLT’S
SPARKLING
ALE.
o
o
o
d
Sr
Sr
o
o
&
Sr
f Q 11, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
j Ca pillarlne!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Tost Free.
(It tic; »V A ITRt N. Sole A sen Is,
6SO and 652 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Ask for
fd
•acrt
TUt® 5
C B° SS
fd
fd
AGENTS I
DeLissa& Phillips,
Barrack St., Sydtey,


“ -A. KT “T I C XT’ "2? -A..”
■poll Horses, Cattle, Slieep, Dogs, &c. A certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authoii-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. Cd. and Cs. 6d. Obtainable from
ali principal merchants and saddlers throughout the
colony, or from H. LEICESTER, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.W. for “ Anticuta"
Company.
OTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s wliisKy.
30 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded AT INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
BROTHERS. LIM™
DSON Bros ltd
CLYDE ■
- ■ ypf.v/.
Clyde Works, Granville,
iN.S.W.
The “CLYDE” K
Ma le in three sizes, with or without Sieve-gear.
FRAMES OF BEST POLISHED BLACKWOOD.
No better Chaffcutters have ever been made, and with our
Horsegears to match, they form plants impossible to beat.
FOR THE HARVEST SEASON
New “Clyde” Damp-weather Strippers,
New “ Clyde ” Improved Winnowers,
BUCKEYE
( Binders,
•s
I Mowers,
Ensure the rapid and economical handling of any crop,
We Make and Stock'every kind of Farm Implement.
yo DUTY. CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
mm
O 4 1
V
B. A, Hrrvoy, Agent, 144 Claretice-st, Sydney,
NEWBY’S LINCTUS -
(REGISTERED).
The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
liitox inns
AND
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemist?, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H, FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
*
r
,v
L
Dr. CAJON’S TANSY PULS
are better than Steel or Penny
royal. Cures obstructions tram
whatever cause. Never fails
No pills or powders like them!
Particulars free from the
Mr, W. PRICE, BOX 100, MELBOURNE.
“ A Golden Blianty.”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
ALL AGENTS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid, to
any of the Australasian colonies.
Huntington Mill.
Knowles’ Fnnips.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
* c, f &Of &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDKTEY, 3NT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Rock Breakers.
Westinghonse Engines.
mmrn
!.' T
m
SfT?
TANCYES “COLONIAL”
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P, nominal.
WORKING- PRESURE. —80 lbs, por square inch,
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from'
4 feet to 7 feet long;.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMINO Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
h a
r
Hay-street >««<' Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
fd
| Wolfe-street, Newcastle,
i Queen-street, Auckland.
