

ss
ft?
XJi
m
&
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
A ITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFIJ BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PBINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BT7ILDEES’ & G-EUEEAL IEOITMOUGEB Y.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
&
3
o
m
h
£)
yy
o
o
*y
<=a
AttJz
Dog’s Head
ALE & STOUT.
JULES RENARD & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
- (
■ I
IT 2
o*
tKs
o*s
THE
)1) I
a^lAluqiittggg]
The Oxford Hotel, Kixig Street, Sydney
Proprietor.
H. THORPE
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
133 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of DIET
may be had at
MODERATE PRI CES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
TALKER’S WHISK!. ILLSOFP’S ALL
1
JOHN WALKER, 24 BOND STKEBT, SYDNEY.
j. «S£ o. HOWARD.
Sole Agents ixx 3NTew South. Wales for Messrs. Clayton and. P
Compound Portabuk Engink, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
pCclyj-OH-g'sHUXT UHttWHH U
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE,
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES.
J. & C. Howard, 2801
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
IPltt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Tol 12—No. 662.]
[Saturday, October 22, 1892.


TRUSS
World will Retain
ture or give Relief
Pierce’s Magnetic
Trass. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
v cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
— It can bo worn with ease and comfort
Atyrlit and Pay. Perfect fittingTrusses sent by mail.
If you want the PEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
Add- ess MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,8anFranclsco,Cal
OrWashinglon II. Soul * Co., 160 Pitt St..
Sydney, or Elliott Pros., Brisbane, Agents
NO
TO
In the
a.. R 6?r
Elastic
Truss has
ands of
S p r ings.
ows
EMBROCATION
y i
\\S0LD f
',\EV/ERXWHERE(^
3/6
CJPKCIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
p, t-t, Edition — Publishers, FITZ
-KALI) BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in a van<'e), Six Shillings .and Sixpence per quar
ter, or One Pound per annum.
n Trim Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
tne Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
KUnners m the street.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AS
A Cure for
MALTO-
debility, QUIIMIA
influenza, llfllu _
NERVOUSNESS, ETC. W I |\ E
Wholesale Agents;
LANGE «3c THONEMAN
M KMMU U M!
WHY WILL YOU SUFFER froi
NERVOUS WASTING an
DEBILITATING DISEASES whic
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN
HOOD ! You may now cure yourselve
without CONSULTING a DOCTOR
X r Stamps for the nev
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing th
French method of QUICK, PERMA
NENT SELF-CURE.
Address : Parisian Agency Co., Box 76S, Sydney
Dr.RIDGE’S
men
%
FOOD
foe INFANTS abb INVALIDS
Ufis is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. ”—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., i'.C.S,, &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON’S
Da LISSA
and PHILLIPS,
ĝ
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
[ AIVHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Hour IVeeks by the use of KhSTORE *>
O e R « COrjo"
t,sSEN c£ of , | p E-
/Mattered and debilitated ' coniiitu!"' vta7,hood 10 i7te most
important elementth. . const ’ tu ‘™’> s . regenerating all the
fuljil his most sacred obligations'^ ra * ne ' and enables man to
extra. Tj/ s6s ' Fr eight
si nstralasia-.-Perr^ envelope
tritzroy. Melbourne. y 00 •73 (*ertruae Street
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Higienio, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, al
recent or chrome discharges of the urinary organs
Sold in Paris by
—j. PERRE,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Eon] CmrTlnEn
MARVELLOUS
remedies,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
f ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ATKINSON’S CELEBRATED
EATJ DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
I Delightful Odour. It far surpasses
I the numerous compounds sold under
the same name.
ATKINSON’S
FLORIDA WATER,
An exceptionally fine Perfume for
the Handkerchief, distilled from the
choicest exotics.
0/all Dealers and of the Manufacturers —
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose” on “Golden a
Lyre,’' with Address In full.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
srreat success IRREGULARITIES
BARRENNESS, STERILITY LEU
CORRHOEA and OTHER TROUBLES incidental t(
women. He gives honest advice and the best
medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per bos
post free.
BETTER THAN GOLD
THE
OR. TYSON SANATORIUM,
ST.. KXLDA. *
Patients Received for the Treatment of
DRUNke»'t
ANT)
NEURASTHENIA.
ij^vlv narall^ P a * n > discomfort or restriction
Private apartments and attendants if desired Dr
Tyson s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any ease and is the Only remedy which can he
taken at home with certainty of success Ah
bus ness strictly confidential For terms etc call on
or address—H. E. PEATE, Secy., Cromwell’ Build
mgs, Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne,
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections
For Consumption use
(oFFM^^Sons
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamnndra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
/
&
p
Bosists’s “MBIT M Eucalyptus |
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLE
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUF\T7i
always keep a bottle of Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil 1
ready for immediate use by night or by day. ou an d
It Is a Germ Killer.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night,
with water—and steam the apartment.
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles.
Use it-in a vaporiser—a few drons n.,w
INHALE THE STEAM ifThwt
-( ”)-
Dr. BRENDON CURGENYEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the «n.
1 have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at nk-ht
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.” ° ’ an(l *
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS Oil,
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them blivet
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow S
on opening the package to see that the words “J, Bosisto, Richmond ” are
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for ’ mou wed
SOSISTO’S PARROT
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and :n Europe
SEND FOR DR. KELLY
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
4
**.
<
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervjus&Skin
Ccn^aints,
PitlCfi Is
In SUmpi,
M.A., M. 8.,
ufy flegis
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr KeUvts a ri,jr^ n ,^ m J ankl l As the
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies Qualified and Registered
unaware of hi. great success, as, hitherto he has refSinid Persons at a distance, however, are
sphere of hi. usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertf^ vert | r 8m «- Hence, to widen the
district*, where his reputation may not yet have travelled h,mself k «own in remote
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly flnd it neclssarv toadverH o i he K qUeStlon may arise ' does so
s% sszmjz Si sss
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
ibject to Palnitation of the .tt , ...
Head Md Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels Sleemf nwr P e °toration, Staging Noises in the
Bmck,Specks Before the Eye,, Wei
fillips——
oiivi Jr l#js LANGUAGE, which can BE UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
Wl^cranSvOuTDraXL^^ EL^s^^
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
l8 u G u a^ nteed t 0 Cure any ease of NERVOUS DERTT TTV mu-
which has been so frequently tested will be forward *■ AT* * This excellent apparatus,
for Is. Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should “aL**-?" 88 .', 011 recei P t of a Port Office Order
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate atoSSh To al , l symptoms, and thus enable the
P ate safety, all letters containing money should
"7 s “ 8 fc *™xa««6r- ■— - - -w.
All Riectnoal AppHa.o.., A,„ pickea „ ob „ tv . tion , „
Wales i 1 0ner > Registered by the New South
Monday . . o ! ChMge ’ at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday..
»| *:S So 5 p":; IS: 52 S&“ a7pm to 9 pm -
«|£l I S;lS: S {s- “* 7 p -“- to 9p »
P m m .
“SS-DR. w. H. KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
KELIY WIU PEOSECUTE any infringement of his letters fatekt.
IOP SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ...»■
“TALES "i the CONVICT SVSTEM."
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE
Inspection Invited.
w. 3VC^3VT3VC-A.TT &d
PW'PTVT? TTTrmrrr
TELEPHONE 972.
RECEIVE WEEKLY
FROM TIIEI R SKJEmESLU man
ALL THE CHOICEST DESIGNS IN
ELECTRO-PLATE and CUTLERY GOODS.
<5T> Uk T? rr Q t> "o -n o-n m A MAGNIFI CENT collection, suitable for
SPORTS. PRESENTATIONS, SHIP, CLUB, HOTEL
always on view at their show-rooms-
EMPIRE
AND FAMILY USB,
OHAMBERS S 3 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at London, Edinburgh and Melbourne.
SPOONS & FORKS
SPOONS & FORKS


Medical.
pSSPEEH
Assisted by Dr. ELMSLIBj
M.D.; ti.F.P;S., L.S.A., L.M., etc;,
29 York Street, Wynyard Spare,
SYDNEY.
p.o. Box 020.
£,- a em inent Specialist is A graduated physician of
* hlS w i University, U.S., registered by the Governments
*l a «<5W and N.Z., and has devoted 16 years to the
of B tudv of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN and
sP e “?.'*L DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
S him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
tyv No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
p . !inre guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
f l '.® v,i m .that where there is no organic disease, and
fiiim*’ hut an inorganic trouble, dr, in other words, a
operation df symptoms producing a certain .result,
ifL ;a no reason why it cannot be removed with the
R. remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
P fin most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. ui
Monarticular Speciality, viz., the CHRONIC andSPECIAIi
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN.
Exanmiatidn and Advice Free to all:
Office Honrs : 10 td 13 a.m.; 3to 4 aiid
} to 8 p.Mll
in consequence of the prevailing
hard times,
nr SPEER has determined to REUUCE his PEES to
avic’tlv ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and hd
B 1 trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
iu y lo se thdusands of poor but honest sufferers, whd,
lhoti>’h willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
tlieans are Q Ulte unable tb pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Pr SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable "case in hand he names a fee which includes all
Mvioe attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured, it therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible,
Nervous Debility.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all oases of NERVOUS-
NESS and SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion,
for his many years of practice with this dreadful disease
enables him to remove all traces of it, and to return the
victims to full VIGOR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N.8.-TWENTY SHILLINGS is Sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
In all cases of
PRIVATE DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
VARICOCELE cor suit Dr. SPEER.
SEXUAL EXHAUSTION AND WEAKNESS consult Dr.
SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COM PL MNTS consult Dr.
SPEER,
ASTHMA consult Dr, SPEER. ,
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr, SPEER . will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
L-AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, tor Nervous
Debility, Lost Vitality, Sexual Weakness, Errors, &c.,
Bs., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
2,-AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for Discharges,
Contagious Sores and Blood Diseases, 55,, or 21s. for
five boxes. Extra strong, 375. Od.
5.—" FEMALE ” PtLLS, for Irregularities and Obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. MODERATE CHARGES.
B. —EFFECTUAL And RAPID TREATMENT,
C. AND PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper.
NEWBY’S LINCTTJS
(REGISTERED).
f-S.
B3T The only thoroughly
reliable RfcMfiDY for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
A&D
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Uhemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles-.
SobE Proprietor :
H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Oheftiist*
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
Business Announcement,
mm
m
u
wstm
-&V , srrt;
*^E3«ajs^T
m~~~
«-i
"Hitr.
Best on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt’s Brewing Si Wine Si Spirit Co., Limited.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
IVI.rt.C.S.j JEJMgi
•v:'
tnS
Late of Imperial Forces*; Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now perrtmnently
located at
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men 1 feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will bo made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
Mylife-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
Diseases. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially;
ILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY. FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
NERVOUS DE
Arising from indiscretion, Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects—Nervousness,
Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Dimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
Females, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to Marry,
Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood. Night Losses; Tains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Aerie; Eczefha, Old Slres, Ulcers;
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by mcilns of Safe, TTimc-tcsted Elenaedies. Stiff and
Swollen Joints and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CUfiSHIIIS. Soft feeling bunch of earth-like
worms-VAiaiCQCECE, IS tIDBABLE WITHOUT OPERATION by Surgeon.
Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, price ,=62. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treated successfully., BSupturo
instantly relieved and permanently cured. STits, Epilepsy, or falling sickness radically cured. I use only thd
best remedies. Avoid mngliilful pretenders and specious promised cure-alls— their
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment; All are treated with
skill in a respectful manner} and knowing what to do, Wo Experiments are made. Horn®
Treatment. Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at borne.
Those requiring- Immediate Treatment can by forwarding particulars of their case
and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post. Before confiding- your case else-
where, Consult the Old and Successful Specialist, SWKGEOS I/AWCJSTON. Age
#nd experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden years to life. Wo mercury or poisonous drugs used.
SURGEON LANGSTON. M.R.O.S, &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.— The Only Qualifies! Surg-eon practising as a Specialist who Ims held CJovcrnment
Appointments.
gay CONSULTATION FREE.
PREMIER BRAND 0F BOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
“PREMIER.” They stand alone for style, quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECT TO THE WEARER—there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carriage Paid.
'iW” Try THem.
DEPOTS—32O George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory-371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
s 0
'*^tS Vß £ for indiGest^ h ?^
Before purchasing any other
sk \ d for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
g
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarkot), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Medical;
Dr. RICHXHDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABOHATORY ROOMS being completed, Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome his
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY;
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. lie has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to Ml
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment, llis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature ago, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
P FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOtC.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
■detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
■and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
1)1- Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by fire,
urn! patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret be'ween iln docto • and
themselves. Dr. Richards hassncc>ssfnlly treated
•nearly 25,003 cases since coming to Australia, and
has pcrm'ss'.oa from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of Ids success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
3-1 COIiLKGE STUM IST, SVI) iIY.
Be sure bo mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.'


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
k . 85 PITT STREET. STDKTEYi
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,000
LAEGE ZBOINTTJSIES
AND
SECURITY.
H; 0; EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary.
A. And J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
ĝğ
ĝ
The only TUBES used by All the Governments oif Australia.
jjlNAflEk FOB^AusTKALtA-VIL* . J. 3Melc'’William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
fej-ia.ialia.eBiB* Extra Stout
ARfi GUARANTEED
ABSOmitEIilT PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
Agents:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.*
- - . . . SYDNEY. ,
E P. GREGORY & CO.,
EiigiiieerS ahd General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Engines, Boilers, Gj-eLsi Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
<£■ Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of;
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
WILLIAMSON “
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE
BOROUGH OF R EDFE R ]NT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &o.
STATION And PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
iPium
gr p
ap
Busb^
THE
‘ 3Plurtx *
THIS brand of itazor is something superior to anytliing tliat has over been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, ahd we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is extr a ‘
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
S»erclria,u Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc.. Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 g-soug-b: street, sydniby.
Cleavepb
Javenia Soap
Marvellous Effect ! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
d&5O to be g-iven away in PRIZES to Residents la NE'V SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDIIEfM, GOTTIIEI.F k CO SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and Is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY. —T. Remvooo, Ph I)., F. 1.C., K.C S.
m
gjfj;-'--1
see,
tom
SB
BAKER and ROUSE,
MANUFACTURERS AND MERCHANTS in PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
37S &EORGE STREET, SYDKTEY (next A.J.S. Bank*
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
Wild. -Au-u.s-fcra.lia.! 'W'ilcaL Queensland I
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland”
—BY—
A.. 1S/L IB S T O 3XT.
ILLUSTRATED by THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STUKT, the explorer, called the “ Terrible Rite.”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia.
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia—Hunting, Fighting
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “Boorool” (Bora) ceremonies.
SS' The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
WM (Appear in Brisbane, Sydney, (Adelaide, (Tasmania, and <g.g.
X3XT KTOV3QMBER.
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD !
The Lecturer, Mr, A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAY WELL & CO.
depot
MARVEL
,0 B A C C O
CfOR CE S r
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in the Building'
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES
ir. * JrffeSfcfe: h* *.$
mm M
•is '.,1 l pf ; s ;• t, i
.*^ir
■ ' i£.; %
*1 -■ -j
' *? ,r;c Jv Vs.*
Tliis first-class Hotel lias boon Handsomely Rofnrnialiod, possesses tl
Hilliard ami Public I.unfcbocn Rooms in Sydney, and ‘.s now nnrivalW
visitors, rS Tariff, Vs. ( '<l. per day. Special Hates f.r Families.
A A no VS
tlio Largest and most Llegant
ad for comfort and attention to
Special Hates f.r Families.
EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - Proprietors.
\V. W. AIKKN, Manager (18 years in the establishment).


The Bulletin
f el-12—Ho. 662.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1892.
Price, 6d.
THE KNIGHT OF THE IRON JAW-OR THE CHAMPION OF VIRTUE:
Jawbone Neild upholds the Sydney Gimlet Brigade.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER do., limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
Terms to subscribers
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £l 0 0
Half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly... ... ... .., ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shilling# sterling—with postage added where required,
Which, you by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stanips of any Australian province—ymi can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
'I his offer is not open to residents Of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
tn the hands of our carriers, ivith whom we do not wish
to interfere;
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and dll Business Communications
to he addressed to William MAcleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or sag 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens'
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Netvspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
TAe'^xzlleiz7L.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1892.
The New South Wales Electoral Bill.
It is a leading feature of the existing system of
government that no great reform ever becomes
law until it has been worn threadbare by long
months or years of ceaseless iteration. The
New South Wales One-Man-Oue-Vote Bill is a
case in point, For two years past it has been
locally more talked of than any other subject.
It lias been introduced and lost on two occasions,
and it is now introduced a third time, with the
same certainty of passing the Assembly as
before, and almost the same certainty of being
wrecked in the Council. The Assembly is prac-
tically unanimous upon the subject—in its out-
ward semblance that is, though not in its heart.
The probabilities are that three-fourths of the
people’s so-called representatives would gladly
see the Electoral Bill eternally lost, but no one,
for the sake of his billet and his salary, dare
utter such a sentiment. Even the crowd of
members who live upon the plural voting sys-
tem have to assume a hollow pretence of
enthusiasm over the measure, like a man giving
three cheers when he is disembowelled,
and, therefore, it is probable that the
Electoral Rill will pass the Assembly with-
out even one dissentient voice. Then when it
is rejected by the Council—as it certainly will
be if the House of kidney-fits has the courage
of its opinions—things will stand very much
where they did before. The Government may
dissolve the Assembly and get its policy endorsed
afresh by the nation, which is probably the
strictly constitutional course to follow under
the circumstances, and is practically the same
as burying the cart because the horse is dead ;
and it may recommend the Governor to appoint
sufficient new.nominees to carry the measure;
and the Governor may or may not see his way
to do so ; and various other things may or may
not happen, for the system of Party Govern-
ment is much the same as playing chess with
the devil, and its results are past finding out.
* * #
The present measure is by far the most
efficient of the three which have come before
the Legislature. It has only two very notice-
able defects. The reduction of the Assembly
to 125 members is a notable reform, but still,
even the reformed Legislature will be much too
bulky. No community of a little over a
million souls can hope to produce 125 states-
men. It is fortunate the average if iL-
produces even one. If it is a specially intel-
ligent community it may raise, in an Assembly
125 strong, a dozen politicians of sufficient
capacity to be valuable—men with no special
pretentions to statesmanship, but with enough
intelligence and honesty of purpose to do
reasonably good service—and 113 bores, log-
rollers, obstructionists, and assorted incapables.
If the Assembly were reduced to 70, instead of
125, it is almost a certainty that the dozen men
(more or less) of ordinary intelligence, would
still find seats, and that there would be 55 less
members, who are devoid of intelligence, to
harass a suffering country. Neither is there
any special virtue in the number 70. The
figure might quite as reasonably be fixed at 20
but for one reason—it is necessary to place it
so high that a Ministry could not conveniently
buy up all the House without incurring an
expense that could not well be disguised in the
national accounts.
* * *
Another, and a conspicuously weak point, is
that it is not specified in the “order of leave”
that the principal object of the measure is to
provide that every male voter in the country
shall have one vote and no more. If such
a statement were distinctly made then there
would be no room to emasculate the measure
in the Upper House by the insertion of any pro-
viso concerning a “ vote for thrift/’ and the
senile Chamber would be compelled to give
a bald “ yes ’* or “no” to the main issue
-—it would either be forced "to make peace
with the nation or to openly declare war.
And, further, there would be no room to
Complicate the measure by adding on to it a
scheme of female suffrage, which would doubt-
less look like an ultra-democratic amendment,
and which would probably end by creating a
split in the democratic camp, and result in the
hanging up of the entire scheme for another
session. If the Electoral Bill should miss fire
this year, then it is to be hoped that this defect
will be remedied on its next appearance. At
present it is only described as a bill to remodel
the electoral law of New South Wales, and
there is nothing in that description to prevent
the Council re-modelling the electoral law to
read that the bloated fat man who now has ten
votes shall in future have twenty,
# # *
One absolute certainty in the present case is
that the “National” Ass, the great Vote-for-
Thrift organisation, will oppose manhood suf-
frage to the bitter end. The bogus “ National ”
league has a lien upon the soul of the House of
Gout, and the very fact that no serious attempt
has yet been made to organise any serious
opposition in the Assembly makes it all
the more certain that it relies upon the
nominee Council, in the sure and glorious
hope that that body will rise upon its two
swollen feet and do its duty. How it will
try to perform that duty remains to be seen.
It may pass the measure with enthusiasm, and
tack on a provision that every woman as well
as every man shall have one vote, and it is all
the more likely to do this, as Premier Uibbs,
only a few days ago, unburdened himself at the
wrong moment to a Woman’s Suffrage deputa-
tion, and pledged himself and, inferentially,
his Government, to oppose the female franchise
without reservation. Therefore, the Council
may pose as the more democratic body of the
two, and block the measure, on the ground that
a narrow-minded and conservative Assembly
desires to exclude one-half the adult population
from the sacred privilege of self-government,
and then sit down to enjoy the spectacle of the
Cabinet opposing its own democratic measure
because the Tory Chamber has made it too
democratic. A day or two ago, the obvious
course, in such a case, would have been for the
Dibbs Ministry to cheerfully accept the amend-
ment, and to “ dish ” the Council by agreeing
with it enthusiastically, but the Premier has
committed himself so effectually on the point
that such a proceeding is now hardly possible.
It would be interesting to know who incited
the deputation to choose the present moment
above all others for its irruption. There is
also a chance that Parkes may endea-
vour to embarrass the Government, and yet to
pose as the most advanced democrat in the
Legislature, by raising the same question, but
that is a less important danger. If Parkes is
instrumental, either directly or indirectly, in
wrecking manhood suffrage once more, even the
hoary mane on which he has travelled so long
should hardly save his seat at next general
election.
* * «
The other possibilitiesare; (1) That the Council
may accept the manhood suffrage principle, but
endeavour—after the fashion of the lamented
Victorian banker, James Munro —to make up
for the loss of the male property vote by insert-
ing a female property vote in its stead, under
the pretence that it thereby makes a further
advance towards the ideal system of universal
suffrage ; (2) That it may, as already suggested,
proceed to “ amend ” the bill by inserting the
old plural vote proviso once more, just as the
Victorian Council “amended” the Munro-
Shiels One-man-one-vote Bill by making it
read that every man would have one vote, and
some men would have more ; and (3) that it
may, being incited thereto by the National
Ass, reject the measure in toto. The fourth
possibility that it may cave in and
surrender at discretion —is so remote as
to be hardly worth considering. In any
ease it is essential that the Government
should be prepared for immediate action in case
of defeat. There is nothing to be gained by
dissolving the Assembly and seeking a fresh
mandate from the nation ; the nation (accepting
the constitutional theory that everything in a
Government’s proclaimed policy is adopted by
the electors w ho ’ return it to power,-and
making allowance' for "the fact that the
Opposition, as ' well ”as the Government, *
was returned on this political issue) has
already given its mandate more definitely
than it ever gave it before. The Foreign-trade
press will doubtless take the opportunity to.
suggest the resignation of the" Cabinet—the
resignation of a Protectionist Cabinet being the
Foreign-traders’ remedy for every evil known
to man—but that is entirely beside the question;
the formation of 20 new Cabinets would make
no difference in the result,. The country will
not endure a male property vote, or a female
property vote, or any other new variety of the
ancient evil; nor will it endure the postpone
ment of manhood suffrage until womanhood
suffrage can be tacked on to it—it recognises
that the country is all but unanimous on the
one point, and is far from unanimous upon tire
other, and it will not lose the definite by wait-
ing for the indefinite. If the Manhood Suffrage
lull is lost in the Upper House then it is the
duty of the Cabinet to be ready with a list of
democratic nominees sufficient to carry their
proposals. If Governor Jersey hesitates to
grant their demands which is hardly
probable—then they must carry their case
to the Imperial Government, which—until
the Republic arrives is, unhappily, the
only court of appeal under such circumstances.
And having succeeded—as they ultimately must
—in swamping the obstructive chamber they
should be prepared to prorogue the Legislature
and hold a new session immediately thereafter
for the one purpose of settling this vexed
question for ever. For on this occasion the
country is in dead earnest, and if the slow-
moving machine of Party Government will not
move fast enough for its purpose there will be a
cataclysm in which some venerated institutions
may be lost.
Ginger shall not be Hot i’ the Mouth!
’?. ocJalj or 4?r. maintained by., mutual
iiitolerance. If every person made full allow-
ance for the foibles of every other person, con-
fusion, disorder and riot would shatter society.
Happily, no one makes any allowance worth
Speaking of for the practice by others of any
vices save such as he himself indulges iin And*
often enough even that special allowance is not
openly granted. The rogue must play the
hypocrite* and virtuous-seeming detestation of
the indulgence by others in the very vices which
he himself practises* is one of the hypocrite’s
most valued resources. All sorts of sinners
combine against sinners of one sort. The com-
binations perpetually vary. The results are
penal and restrictive laws of excellent tenour
and generally repressive of crime and vice,
although enacted with the approbation and at
the instance of a society whose members col-
lectively practise every one of the crimes and
vices thus penalised. Man seems to be naturally,
or by the pressure of artificial conditions, a
self-deluding and self-righteous creature. The
Pharisee who thanked God that he was not as
other men are, is not merely the type of a class
of pietists. He serves as a type of all mankind.
Burglar Bill knows that he is not nearly the sheer
brute that he is considered. He is conscious of
qualities which highly relieve the darkness of the
popular portrait of his character. He may be
good-humoured, full of pluck, generous when in
funds, and, in his own estimate, above doing a
sneaking crime. He may feel within him a soul
which scorns the idea of picking a pocket or
snatching a satchel. He despises the slinking
“ fence ” who buys the proceeds of his feats of
daring enterprise, who cheats him in the value,
and who covers up his own criminality by
attending church and subscribing to public
charities. Burglar Bill, comparing characters,
regards himself as on the whole, and after
making every allowance for the—he admits to
himself—unjustifiable irregularity of his profes-
sional pursuits, a good sort of soul when com-
pared with, say, a time-payment furniture shark,
Whereas burgling simply strips people of super-
fluous possessions for the most part, in the form
of jewellery and plate, usury afflicts the poor.
Your burglar feels justified in regarding him-
self as in some sort a modern Robin Hood, and
he considers it the duty of the governing powers
to put down the oppressive and acquisitive
practices of fat abbots and pursy burghers,
who live in the odour of sanctity and are highly
respected, but who impose upon the credulous
and who stint their journeymen.
* * *
Thus cravens, cheats, liars, pandars, company-
promoters, seducers, sneak-thieves, attorneys,
C.M.G.’s, and other contemptible classes of
people combine to repress crimes of violence
and brutality. And bullies, profligates, and
ruffians, &c., combine to put down crimes of
slyness ; and in each instance the members of
the combination feel a glow of virtuous
enthusiasm suffuse their souls as they “ com-
pound for sins they have a mind to, by damning
those they’re not inclined to.” The other
fellow’s “ vice ” always appears much more
heinous than one’s own “foible.” At the pre-
sent time, a member of the Legislature of New
South Wales, who has achieved Australasian
notoriety by certain unbridled indulgences in
that essentially feminine failing, loquacity, is
about to inflict upon the Legislative Assembly
a Bill for the better “ Suppression of Vice.”
On the face of it this would appear to be simply
an attempt to accomplish by legislation that
which the Almighty has failed to achieve by
the universal Deluge—in short, to make man-
kind virtuous by Act of Parliament. But,
although the title of the Bill would justify
that retort upon its framer, the facts do
not bear out the inference. The comprehen-
siveness of the title is attributable to the con-
traction of the intelligence of the class from
which the bill emanates. This is the cold-
blooded, prim, conventional, often consciously,
and when not consciously always unconsciously,
hypocritical order of people to whom social laws
are vastly more venerable than divine laws.
People of that kind believe that they believe in
the God of Heaven. But that is only their
confounded ignorance and incapacity for self-
analysis. Their god is the Queen, and Mrs.'
Grundy is her prophet. They fancy their
faith and rule of life are derived from the
Bible, but when examined,, the fact is shown
with irresistible force , that they require the
Bible to accommodate itself to their faith.
With the Old-Testament in particular they play
all sorts of what John Haynes, M.P., would
term “applebob.” It is of binding authority
when it suits them. But when its teachings
traverse the social code according to the
Prophetess Grundy, it has been “superseded
by the new dispensation.”
• # #
The code of the inspired Mrs. Grundy, which
is the revealed truth to every worshipper of
god Victoria, conflicts in a handled articles
with the Biblical code, and in every instance
the worshippers of the popular faith act so as
to show that they consider that such incom-
patibility is so much the worse for the Bible.
Now, there is no article in which that irrecon-
cileablenesa is more prominent than i,
matter of sexual relations. Colisequentlv 6
professors of the Victorian religion have f i* ’ Ule
into the habit of alluding to departures 0 ?? 6 * l
the Grundyrevelation comprehensively as v/ 0111
just as though there were no other vice
talking about. It is thus that the title nf°o h
bill has been arrived at. It is in charge n f ivr
Jawbone C. Neild, remarkable himself for K •
afflicted by an “ unruly member.” But the
whose views are embodied in the bill recoeni ° U 1
vice save incontinence, and Mr. Neild D 1 f, 1 ! 0
does not consider garrulity a form of m . y
tinence, or the tongue as an organ in uewl°!!i
rextramt. The detail, of the hill
here discussed, save in the most general term*
Iheir purpose is to make any relations between
the sexes, which have not been authorised hv?
permanent legal union, crimes of the deerl ?
dye and punishable by the severest penal
The bill is one which, if enacted, would deZt
four-fifths of the now living population of tv
world—Mahommedans, Buddhists, Jews a n
pagans —deserving of imprisonmeht, with ha i
labour, by any right-thinking European P ec2
who could catch them. Under this remarkahl!
bill the patriarch Abra Ham would be liable r
three years and a Hogging,,.without the optin,?
for his'relations with HAPAB.-'amT to anbthS
three years for his finessing with Sarah in
relation to Abimelech, the sentences to’ hi
cumulativei e
* * *
Had a bill, such as is proposed by Mr. Neiiu
been law in England during the visit of the
Shah of, I ersia, that potentate would have
been liable to prosecutions under it which
would have involved him in life-long imprison
ment, on account of his harem arrangements
and Her Majesty the Queen, had she housed
Ins Court in one of the Royal Palaces, would—
as the holder or occupier of the premises, or
having the management and control thereof
—■have been guilty of a misdemeanour and
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years, for knowingly suffering any female
not exceeding the age of eighteen years to be'in
or upon such premises for the purpose afore-
said. But, without imagining what the opera-
tions of such an act would be in England it is
enough to contemplate its effect in New South
Wales. The pretty housemaid—the one with
the alluring eye-is already terrible enough to
the baldheaded pater familias,although the most
serious legal consequences of succumbing to her
wiles are an action for seduction and a petition
for divorce. But under this bill the unhappy
baldhead, upon whose shoulder a watchful spouse
detects the golden clue of a long hair, would
be exposed to a three years’ imprisonment,
Hie profession of blackmailing would receive a
splendid impulse. “ Improper ” relations and
improper houses would continue to exist as
they have existed since the sons of God looked
upon the daughters of men that they were fair
since Cain and Seth begot children by their
sisters, since Lot and his daughters dwelt in a
cave, since Israel was a nation and the prophets
declaimed against “ strange women,” since the
Emperor Charles, before abdicating to end his
pious life in religious repose, sent an army of
ten thousand men, attended by three thousand
handsome women, to suppress heresy in the
Netherlands, and since Governor Phillip pro-
posed to import South Sea women for the solace
of the convicts of the first fleets, But the
penalties imposed on their continuance would
be so formidable that the proportion of their
earnings paid to blackmailers would be quad-
rupled. The wretched practitioners of vice
would be sweated without mercy, while
the noxious trade of the blackmailer who
threatened to inform would assume remarkable
proportions, and its professors would take rank
with the most “ respectable ” by virtue of their
princely incomes.
* * #
Mr. Neild’s bill will be hailed with appro-
bation by the individuals who lay so much
stress upon “ the shocking sights to be seen
in George and King streets, Sydney,” which
“ should be as pure as the green fields
the zealots, male and female, who make such
unholy spectacles of themselves. They must
know, unless their information is naught, and
their intellects cramped, that repression will
never cure the evils they complain of. In the
rural districts of Ireland, where the priests
encourage and insist on early marri-
ages, social irregularities are practically un-
known. The girls are pure and the young men
healthy. There is a perfect remedy with its
efficacy attested by its success. In lieu of
turning over nasty thoughts in the mind, and
formulating nasty repressions calculated to turn
police-courts into obscene public-houses, it
would be wiser were the crooked-minded re-
formers to beset themselves to devising some
system by which the wholesome and righteous
instinct of reproduction should be provided
with natural play. To , attempt to quell the
most potent of human passions, that passion
which cost Antony the dominion of the
world, and which has impelled millions upon
millions of men and women to sacrifice for its
gratification every other thing which makes life
attractive—wealth, adulation, esteem, parental
affection, caste—is like trying to plug the
crater of Vesuvius with a soda-water cork.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Profit-Monger as Politician.
A Sydney weekly, in a leader which vaguely
advocates" lor’n’awdah ’’ and the monopoly of
the'right' : to govern by men with a “stake in
the country,” asks “ the solid citizen,” “ the
leading commercial man,” and individuals with
“ large interests in the country and big cities to
come forward and take part in the government
of the. country.” It does not call on men with
brains, men who have made a study of polities
and who might give the community the benefits
of their ability and experience. It merely
requests the profit-monger to desist from
making money for himself in order that he may
commence to run the State machine as a com-
mercial speculation and in the interests of the
property-holder. Of course, everyone whose
aspirations are not bounded by the rim of the
Almighty dollar, is aware that the State


not a* ll association devised for moncy-
-13 purposes, must recognise that
n J a . ■> aovernnieut is nut necessarily good
C erinnent, and that the form of class-
-0V ’ lation which would result from the
ho 18 ‘ e into politics of the commercialists
i sprayed for is just the sort of thing that
l [ lUb g oun try has loudly declared against.
r t *' e fore, it is fortunate that commercialists
Wj n 0(; accede to the petition of our coiitem-
'vl„iry put will refrain from entering the
l?°litic;d ar ena until their pile is made and the
1° , S cooped. Then, worn-out and plethoric
'vth cash and kidney-fat, they may give their
Tlueless services to the community, but, as no
i I Tv of intelligent electors will care to return
re short-winded heaps of tallow, they will
j n ( ,] a d to grease the locks of the Upper House
•order that they may sit there in somnolent
lU ,jiiuy, only possessed of enough consciousness
- v ir’ility to block all democratic measures.
The profit-monger is sufficiently represented in
litics; our aim should be to reduce, not to
increase’, their numbers.
<*.
The Crhosts of the Boom.
Ris a heart-rending job in these times to be a
liquidator in one of the many companies which
were financed by Matthew Davies and his
“ pals.” All day long the pitiable procession
keeps coming—the old men who invested the
savings of a life-time on the strength of a lying
balance-sheet and are l§ft beggared and hope-
less and who will presently be homeless as well
if the calls are enforced; the servant girls
whose few pounds have been grabbed by the
“tentacles”; the widows who invested their
little all in shares, and who come to weep
piteously and pray that they may not be sold
up and thrown out into the gutter to help pay
the liabilities of the lying institution ; the hag-
sard, joyless spinsters who had a small compe-
tence till the saints in shiny hats devoured it;
the cripples ; the despairing semi-maniacs whose
wits are fast going after their lost savings ; the
red-eyed shareholders who are trying to drown
their miseries in drink ; the paralytic old share-
holders who are fast dying of Matthew Davies;
the pious shareholders who want to know in
their rage and agony if God will really allow
such things as these to be, and will not launch a
thunderbolt at the board ; and all the rest.
They are all people who practised the great
virtue of Thrift, By reason of their thrift they
had a little money to dispose of ; they trusted it
to Davies and his friends because of their
thrift and their consequent anxiety to find a
safe investment where a good, honourable,
pious man was at the head of things to serve as a
guarantee that all was well; and now, as the
natural result of fheir thrift, they have lost all
their savings ; and their furniture and their
clothes will go to pay calls, and they are ruined
by thrift past all redemption. They all want
to see the liquidator, and to tell him of their
miseries, and to heap the curses of a thousand
broken hearts and desolate homes on the
well-oiled heads of St. Matthew and his
friends. And when the doors are shut upon
them they write pathetic letters, and every
morning the postman brings round a fresh load
of woe for the liquidator to read. A few out
of the scores received at the office of the
Colonial Investment and Agency Co. have just
been published in Melbourne. They are un-
speakably dismal reading, and when the recent
Board gets through with them it should have
good and sufficient cause to go out and hang
itself.
♦
Federation.
There is some interesting reading in the
return of the expenses connected with the
recent Australasian Federal Convention at Syd-
ney, recently supplied to New South Wales
Assembly by Treasurer See -as a set-off, no
doubt, against the recent Dihbsiap expenditure
cf £230 ou a banquet ip London at N.S. Wales
State expense, Tire total outlay is £580,6 9s.
Oil, from which it is evident that the delegates
had a glittering burst. Victuals figure largely
and often in the bill., and seemingly the august
gathering made a hog of itself on many occa-
sions, Among the items are : Cassidy (the
Parliamentary caterer)., advance to supply re-
freshments during March, £400; gratuities to
the officers of the Colonial Secretary’s depart-
ment for services in connection with Federal
banquet, £5O; musie ait banquet, £42 ; furnish-
ing Town Hall for banquet, £298 15s. ; Cassidy,
attendance in cloak-room during banquet, £27
135.,; dinner, £1425; menu cards, £225 j wore
menu cards, £l2 10s, ; lunch, band,, &c., £413.;
refreshments, £1 10s. ; supper, £37 1 3s, ,9d. ;
breakfast, £lO 155,; and dinner, £J 7 (is. All
of which represents nearly £3OOO worth of hard,
conscientious feeding and drinking—paid for
out of loan-money or its equivalent. Some of
the other items are even more remarkable:
“ Unwin, one pair opera-glasses for Peter
Smith, £3 35.,” is an item which wants a lot of
unflinching explanation. Who is Petek, SmJTM ?
Why did he want a pair of opera-glasses ? And
if Peter Smith required the opera-glasses,
under what possible pretext were they
-charged to his bleeding country as Con-
vention expenses ? Two substantial items,
repairs to furniture,” are full .of sugges-
tions and are calculated to damage Australian
credit in London teetotal circles. “ Engrossing
appointments to Convention, £5,” is a fine
specimen of Parkesian gorgeousness. “ Writing
certificates of members into ten vellum rolls,
£5,” is another strange outbreak of .the ancient
cue’s magnificence. “ Photos, of delegates and
■six Premiers, £155 165.,;” “oak and gold frames,
£11.;” “ willow-pattern name-card, £15,” are
'interesting specimens of .that craving after ’igh
hart which breaks out so often in ithe old man’s
character at the public .expense. “G. B-
Barton, ifor editing draft bill, £210,” is remark-
ably high pay for a job which many sufficiently
intelligent pressmen would have .done in less
than a week for £2O. The rest of the account
is chiefly “ gratuities,” and most of the
gratuities are more or less directly connected
with banquets. Parkes has a mania for
this kind of barbaric splendour. He would
gladly wear boots with golden if he could
conscientiously charge them to the Treasury,
and have diamonds set in his foonn teeth ; and
the oak and gold frames, and the willow-pattern
name-card, and I he opera-glass for I'kter Smith
all shriek aloud of Parkes. But all the eating
hasn’t brought Federation visibly nearer, and
the question now is—if £3OOO worth of victuals
have left Australia still disunited, how much
victuals will he required before Federation
really comes ?
—
Most “ learned ” societies start with some
knowledge of the business they undertake,
but the “Royal” Geographical Society of
Australia is unique in that it knows nothing
whatever about the geography of Australasia.
With the exception of, perhaps, two of the
prominent members, the Society could scarcely
tell the difference between a cockatoo-fence
and a Drigalow scrub. Once the Society sent
an “exploring” expedition to New Guinea,
which expedition went up the well-known Fly
River, and then came down again. Lately, the
Adelaide branch loaded the Elder expedi-
tion so heavily with printed instructions
and scientific surveyors that it collapsed
shortly after discovering the settlement
of Western Australia. As a sample of
the geographical ignorance of the continent
possessed by the leading members, the map
issued for the guidance of the defunct Lindsay
and Co. confounded settled with unsettled
country, and put down districts full of cattle-
stations and bush roads as unexplored territory.
If, instead of making public exhibitions of their
incapacity, they had devoted what energies
they possessed to extending geographical educa-
tion in the public schools, to the production of
a good, reliable text-hook, to procuring and
storing information concerning the yet little
known parts of Australia from trustworthy
sources, they would have done something to
incur public gratitude ; as it is, they have lived
by pure blather, and have done nothing hut
make themselves ridiculous.
+.
Somebody enquires in a Melbourne paper why
it is that there are in Australia so many social
purity societies, vigilance societies, societies
for the protection of females, societies for the
suppression of “vice,” and other sorts of
societies, every one of which exists for the one
purpose of inquiring into cases where people
are not married but ought to be ; while no one
ever starts even a solitary society to put down
swindling, fraudulent banks, stealing, assault,
forgery, burglary, lying, profane language, or
any other offence. There are about 40 holy
associations all worrying about one form of
sin, and all the other forms are allowed
to slide. The only feasible explanation seems
to he that the dirty saints enjoy the present
arrangement. You can get a hundred of
them any day to join a new organisation
for putting down any variety of offence
that has a leering female and a wicked bald-
head in it, but any other kind of movement
falls flat. Anyone who wants to gather
together all the unctuous pietists of the com-
munity should start a swell organisation for
the suppression of immoral literature—each
member to read the literature right through
from the highest motives, so as to decide
whether it is immoral or not; and then see the
crowd roll in. Such a society, with an
entrance-fee of £l, would pay the promoter
better than a land-bank.
■ ♦
There is a sinister significance about th e
fact that the first man to force Premie r
Shiels into “seriously considering” a recent
insolvent-bank scandal should be an ex-prison
warder. Not that Shiels has any immediate
idea of a Crown prosecution. Ye gods, no !
He is thinking of “ ordering an official enquiry
to be made into the affairs of the Anglo-iVustra-
lian Bank, on the result of which a charge may
be laid against the management, or otherwise,
(is the facts elicited may suggest.” The facts
storing him in the face from the bauk’s balance-
sheets and the liquidators’ report, when he puts
them side by side, are pot nearly sufficient for
Shiels, He may order an official enquiry, a
slow and stately official enquiry, guaranteed to
last a s i°ng as the Government, and to terminate
ip pothi,ng. Probably he will. An official
enquiry is the brightest notion that the Crown
has struck since it got into its present awful
f medicament. An “official enquiry” into the
fistory of the Davies companies and the Mer-
cantile Bank ! A board consisting of Tommy
Bent, Matthew’s brothers (one of whom seems
to be a Cabinet Minister, without portfolio),
James Balfour, Graham Berry, and Agent-
General Munro to report on the advisability,
or otherwise, of prosecuting the late Speaker 1
Gould Victoria possibly desire anything more
satisfactory .than an enquiry so very official and
thoroughly ■“ .representative ” as that ?
Justice Jnnes (N.S.W.) stales that be objects
to the practice of allowing prisoners to give
evidence on their own behalf, because it opens
the floor to perjury. Would Judge Innes
kindly consider tire following points : —(j) The
“ prisoner ” in a criminal case and the “ defen-
dant ” ip a civil case ace practically identical,
and if the “ prisoner ” shouldn’t be heard W his
own defepce, ithep the “defendant” shouldn’t
be heard either ; (2,) the “prisoner” undoubtedly
does per j ure himself, bu t so does the “ defendant, ”
and so also does the plaintiff, therefore, if it is
advisable to copdepm the “ prisoner ” upheard
in order to save perjury, it is also advisable to
muzzle the plaintiff for exactly the saipe reason.
(3.) About half the witnesses perjure them-
selves, as is distinctly evidenced by .the fact
that in nearly every case there ace two sets of
them who swear to diametrically opposite state-
ments ; ; therefore, it is equally reasonable to de-
mand .that Jhe practice of allowing witnesses to
give evidence should be abolished, because it
also “ opens the door to perjury.”
Dear Bulletin, —It is peculiarly unfortunate
for ithe New South Wales Women’s Suffrage
League that there should, simultaneously with
itheir demonstrative deputation to Premier
Dibbs, demanding the suffrage, have been dis-
played an exhibition of woman’s work. The
exhibition furnishes the most crushing conceiv-
able proof of women’s incompetence to partici-
pate in serious affairs. The aims of women, in
practical directions, are by it,* exposed as being
of the paltriest conception, and the feeblest'
execution. It shows that even in the lines
which are claimed to be those in which they
possess special qualities, they are feeble and
inefficient. A very apt phrase to describe the
characteristic of the whole is “puerile.”
That is to say, that were it an exhibi-
tion of the exorcise of male industry
and ideality, it would be attributed to
the exertions of boys not touching the
level of men’s achievements. But, after all,
this is only what has been demonstrated over
and over again. Whenever the male sex has
thought fit to address itself to arts and
industries previously regarded as women’s
peculiar departments, they have excelled the
female. Women —whole seraglios of them—
have been making their own garments ever
since the first woman wore an apron of fig-
leaves. Yet the moment men entered that
business, the entire army of dressmakers and
milliners was conquered. No woman can make
a petticoat or a gown as Worth and Redfern
can. I am convinced that Adam made the fig-
leaf petticoat for Eve. —-T.
Dear Bulletin, —Too many people who trave*
op North see merely the commercial side of
the Kanaka labour-question —all from the em-
ployer’s point of view. They never see the
curtain lifted, so the atrocities of the slave-
trade remain unknown to them. Let me lift
the veil for a moment. Here is the cane-
field. Thirty or forty Kanakas are in a gang-
cutting cane. An uneducated gauger (white)
is in charge. The Kanaka money-wage aver-
ages £G per annum. One of the niggers, more
independent than the rest, refuses to be “ kick-
able.” Word is sent into the police-station,
and a mounted constable shortly arrives. Half-
a-dozen Kanakas are forthwith arrested on a
charge (under the Masters and Servants’ Act)
of disobeying lawful orders. Next day
they are brought before the capitalistic P.M.
charged with the terrible offence against the
Queen, her Crown, and dignity, and fined in
sums varying from £1 up to £lO for the crime.
In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the fol-
lowing addendum is made to the magisterial
decision :—“Fined £—, and ordered that if the
fine be paid hy the employer, he shall be em-
powered to deduct the amount with costs from
the ‘ boy’s ’ wages.” This is the general result:
The Kanaka is fined £5, with £1 Is. professional
costs, 10s. for attendance of witnesses, &c.
Now for the revelation ; The planter pays the
£6 11s., and, in his capacity as prosecutor,
receives back from Government a moiety of the
fine, £2 10s., as well as the witnesses’ expenses,
and also his quid pro quo from the lawyer.
The Kanaka wage averages, as I have said, £6
per annum ; a “ kind ” employer can, by bring-
ing a charge of “ disobedience ” against the boy,
at any time recover half the wage, as well as
the witnesses’ expenses, &c., which he never
allows to be pocketed by his overseer, and can
do a good turn also to his friend the lawyer.
Such things are of hy no means infrequent
occurrence. A planter hires a nigger at £6 a
year, generally gets him fined that sum for
disobedience of orders, and pockets the
“moiety” of the fine. And of such is the
kingdom of Kanakadom.—A Mean White.
The Dibbs Government has a measure before
the New South Wales Assembly to provide for
the borrowing, within the province of New
South Wales, of £3,000,000, at four per cent.
There are only two serious objections to this
proposition : In the first place, borrowing
ought to be entirely abolished, but if jthe
Cabinet has not the energy to take so radical a
step, then it ought to be enacted, (is an essential
part of the measure, tha,t no new loans shall he
raised iji England except for the purpose of
Redeeming old debentures as they fall due, and
that the province 5119.1 l rely absolutely on its
own r,esourc.es for the future. If such a proviso
were inserted then the present measure' would
he another step op the road to independence.
The bonds which bind this country to Britain
are the opes which Australia floats so
regularly in the London iparket, and the
motherly interest which England takes in Aus-
tralia’s welfare is 3 3 pep shent ant) a commis-
sion. These silken bonds—ipost of which fall
due within the next few years, by the way—
are among the many stumbling blocks in the
Way of democratic legislation. Whenever any-
thing is attempted the respectable press and
the Gpper House join in a damp and flabby
wail about the danger of scaring the British
investor. It is time to so arrange things that it
won’t matter if the British investor is scared or
pot. If the Dibbs Government only proposes
to borrow in New South Wales until
,the affrighted Bull has got his second
Wind, then there isn’t much i,n its
scheme after all, and it would he well if the
democratic party would endeavour to amend
the hill in committee, so as to make it state
clearly that, from a financial point of view,
New South Wales has done with the aforesaid
Bull for ever. There is money enough in the
province ,to enable ,the Government to borrow
£100,000,000 if it wants to ; in other words, so
Ipng ns it spepds the cash entirely within the
country it can borrow it' oyer and over again
till it has piled up a whole mountain range of
obligations, apd thep—if it so desires—it can
have a little internal burst all to itself with no
outside financiers to interfere.
Dear Bulletin, — Do men in power ever read
the daily papers ? If they do, how can you
account for a recent appointment to which £750
per annum and other emoluments are attached ?
Consider how the appointee is at present one of
a number of “ highly responsible and represen-
tative gentlemen ” who are under a financial
cloud of very pronounced unambiguity ! True,
the cloud has not yet hurst—hut the god of
Mammon himself cannot prevent it burst-
ing. The man in the street knows this—why
not the fat or the bald-headed man in the
Ministerial office? It may be urged that to
have refused the appointee the position because
of the possibility of certain complications would
have been to prejudge the case adversely, but is
not the making of the appointment under the
conditions a prejudgment—a virtual declaration
in advance of the appointee’s non-culpability?
la other circumstances, I should rejoice at the
appointment : in existing ones. I deplore it.
How can we hope for a faithful and unbiassed
devotion to the functions of a great and onerous
post, which has a definite relation to social
peace and prosperity, when the functionary’s
vitality is being sucked to the point of exhaus-
tion hy the thousand and one subtle tentacles
thrown out by the octopus of finance?—Yours,
Melaleuca.
Now that Gladstone has returned to power,
renewed efforts are being made to secure the
liberation of Arabi Pasha, which Wilfred
Blunt, who defended him at his trial, has
never relaxed his efforts to effect. In a letter
to a Loudon paper, the case is well put by a
correspondent, who says ;—“ When we con-
template the liigh-souled character of this
illustrious prisoner, think of his devotion to
his country, and remember his deeds of daring
to deliver Egypt from the odious exactions of
foreign loan-mongers, blood-suckers, and bond-
holders, we may well blush for shame at our
iniquitous conduct towards him.” This is just
the sort of language which The Bulletin
employed when Arabi was exiled, and every
Australian colonist should sympathise with the
Egyptians, for it is quite on the cards that
foreign loan-mongers, blood-suckers, and bond-
holders may yet clamour to have Australia
brought under Imperial control for the better
security of payment of interest and repayment
of principal. The foreign loan-monger already
begins to assume a tone of querulous authority
respecting Australian financial affairs, and
Australians may yet experience, what private
persons are familiar with, the metamorphosis
of a bland money-lender into a cruel oppressor.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Nam" and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“Tasmanian” (Launceston): Wo suspect ;>uur
verse of being a badly-disguised whisky advertisement
“The Bunyip ” : We echo the opinion of your hairy
friend “B. Allarat”: Your whole theory boils down
to this—“ It will be all the same to us when 100 years are
past.” How do you know Warrane” : The first 18
pages read as if something thrilling was about to happen,
and nothing does happen except a lat woman partly
dressed “P. Nelson”: The Bulletin “grasped the
cause of your proposal ” right enough. It fully endorse s
the proposal, but the “cause” is so disproportionately
small that it looks like a fly running off with a sack of
flour “Ajax”; Good Chinese satire “G.W.R. ”:
Blessed is he who sends in 36 pages of pompous diction
written, in pencil for he shall get it l ack when he calls for it
“ Birkenhead ” : Judging fiom your politics you are a
dwarf Parkes minus the crow’s-nest beard which hangs
from that great man’s ears “ I.O." (Harden): What
do you mean by “Pride’s dire self-hearing thirst and
crank logic’s awful slime?” Thirst is self-drinking, not
self-hearing “Wanya”: Idea good, though verse not
over-brilliant “R.G.8.T.” (Wagga): Thanks; will
use “Scot”: The pale, consumptive heroine is gone
bung, and the writer whose heroine must have a mortal
disease preying on her vitals is an unwholesome person,
anyhow “Tom Freeman” (Vic.): Decent verse, button
much of it. The poem that arrives in vans and has to bo
rolled up the stair has no show here.... “The Pauper ” :
Too thin... “James Graham” :We never print serials
“ A. 8.” (Upper Hunter); A dead shepherd doesn’t sink
into a liquid state and drop like refreshing rain on the
stranger who has camped beneath his bunk. If he did,
perhaps he would come back in spirit guise and gather
himself up in a jug ... “ Aramanga ” : Unsuitable ; more-
over, Republican Dibbs’ title is ancient history n0w....
“ X.” (Deniliquin); Under such conditions a magistrate is
always supposed to view the corpse. When a corpse is
dead he has to put up with being viewed by all sorts of
people.... “ 11. Svenssen ” : Thanks. .. “ Parson D.” :As
something equally intelligible—take a roast thunder-
storm, mix it with the noise of cats’ feet and the root of
bear, and send it to Parkes when his creditors have all
been struck by lightning on a Friday.... “Yermyn ” : Only
amounts to a bald statement that a man can’t write an
S.M. Herald leader unless his sister stops banging
the zither in the next room “E. 5.0.”: Mrs.
Claraker and Mrs. Parker are utterly different people. .*.
“Tchinguiz”; The artificial-egg joke is long since in its
second childhood. We like pur lies fresh.. “R.F.D.”
(M.G.); Can’t you write bush poetry without “blood”
and “sweat” and “curses” in it Pistachio ” :
Will use if possible ‘.“F.C.J.” (Melbourne): Bright,
refreshing lie. Will probably print... Prodigal Son ” ;
You are a very improbable son, anyhow. The bank-clerk
who retires from a profitable course of embezzlement and
gives himself up simply because he is “ tired ” is’loo thin.
Nobody gets tired till he is found but “Rangitira” :
Declined. Most Maori stories are solemn things somehow.
.“ Richmond ” : Good democratic sentiment, but very
dull. Even the immortal truth wants'to have some fresh-
ness put into it “ Melbournian Matthew Davies, by
his own showing, was an unprotected lawyer who Was led
away by designing depositors. He was a stranger and
they took lyin in “A.K.C.”: They are all about
equally shady. The man who supplies tips for a living am)
the man who foretells the end of the world are a'pair....
“Croquet”: Copied from the French. There is no “ con-
cierge’’ in any house in Sydney. You might as well look
fora mamfeluke ... “The Duffer ” : \es, we know. He
died alone ih the bush, and his name was Bill (or perhaps
Jim), and the winds moan over his lonesome resting place'.
Just 50.... “ J.C.W.” (Sydney): You joke in a heavy,
pick-and-shovel sort of way “C. Murphy” (Mel-
bourne): Know‘perfectly well that the Dish Homo Rule
party is as much Protestant as Catholic. The corres-
pondent who averred the contrary is a hopeless bigot.
He was born that way.. . “ Lex ” (Cdonamble); Only Ihe
back-blocks Potts and Shirk once more “Bathurst”:
The moral is that the dying Laureate should always leave
his money in trust fbr the prosecution of the obituary
poets who 1 come after him.... “Strathbogie ” : Why
didn’t you report the policeman thetfe and then?
Yod were present; we were n0t.... “The Orphan”:
The human being who is horribly mangled by a
truck is too comm'bn to arouse much interest.. .
‘‘Echo”: “Colonialism” is a part of that identical
“Imperial unity” which the paper named would boom.
“ Australian Nationalism ” is a thing quite distinct from,
and absolutely independent of, “Imperial unity.”
“Colonialism” is the 1 servitude of Australia to the
“Mother CoVmtty.” “Nationalism” is' the self-support-
ing political severance of Australia frbrn (he Empire
Bananai, ’”: Some of your stories are too old, some are
too long, and some too broad.. . “ W.P.” (Newcastle); A
typographical mistake. The 11th Sept., of course, was
tlie 16th, not the 26th Dandeuong anniversary. Your
microbe • idea vVa's written up long ago “ Madge ” : It
looks like a line from every poem ever written, not
excepting the Evennoose metrical obituaries.... “Richard
F.D.”: Address Secretary, Education Department, Sydney.
The “ Billiard-Marker’s Yarn ” appeared one Xmas -but
no copies are available “R.F.D.” :On what subjects,
for instance ? We could only reprint matter already
issued “H.C.D.”; To hand “A.V.G.” (and many
others): The town v. bush controversy seems worked
0ut..,. “ Rush ” (Melb.): Each shines in his own peculiar
sphere. A bald-headed assessment of the sort asked for
would be simply foolish .. “A.M.L.”: Howard Vernon
was the singer....“ Algebar ” : Name and address? ..
“E. Carter §.” : Tell us, please, what you consider “ fair
remuneration for a navvy.” “Ben. Sun”: Thanks,
but we are not wholly immodest... “ 8.C.0.” : Only an
American would announce “Horses boarded.”...“O.K.”:
Nicely written, but then you are at war with scientific
fact. Diphtheria could not be cured thus. Try again
.“ J-.G.IL”: You don’t fly high enough.... “H.R.P-” :
No others have been published, but there are ether
volumes in Tub Bulletin press.... “ E.G.S.C.” ; You are-
too good-humored to be a poet “C. J. Jensen ” : Tim
Bulletin, bless you, doesn’t regard Jawbone Neild as a
“bigot.” lie is only using the open Bible business as a
means of getting on top politically. He is too flippant
and not ignorant enough to be serious in the matter.
And, again, as to his Bill for the Prevention of Vice. No
man who was in earnest over such a question would ever
wear a waxed,out Imperial moustache. Such things have
ever been associated with the prevention of Virtue'.


THE BEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid to Policy-holders in Forty-nine Years
—BY—
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Funds Exceed £33,150,000.
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Profits paid to Policy-
holders. Bonuses larger than in any other company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and
we will forward you an illustration of the benefits to be obtained under modern forms of life and
investment assurances, in which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
immediately upon rece’ipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Company’s
agencies throughout the world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
Principal Agency : ... ... 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; 333 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Mrs. Beeton says: “ Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a * wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Tnnes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. fid., 25,, and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clarets, and ,jfh e y are on lv one-third of the
price.
The man who having bet detects himself
singing before a race is doomed to lose. His only
safeguard is hedging. Few betting men have the
courage to wager their money after having seen a
cross-eyed person. Such an occurrence is
omen of the worst sort. The appearance of a gi' e Y
horse never fails to cause anxious search for the
red-haired girl—the combination is invincible, *
is a sure sign of success when a man keeps hr
securities in the Sydney Safe Deposit.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Oct. 19, 1892.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
It’s really most interesting to see a High Naval Digni-
tary out with his wife in the day-time. If his lady stops
oehind for about a minute, when she rejoins him he
Uways bows ceremoniously —so ceremoniously. If he
days away for a second and comes back again, there is
mother solemn hat-flourish due—indeed, he seems to
think a bow is necessary whenever he meets her eye. The
lady thus honoured doesn’t take the slightest notice o f
his gyrations, however, and her indifference and his mul-
titudinous salutes give him very much the effect of a
well-trained coachman squiring his missus. I wonder
whether it’s all real—or only for publication?
The visit to Sydney of “Sister May,” of the Kilburn
Sisters of the Church of England, will not lead to aston-
ishing results, I’m sure. Her object (as explained by her
at a religious reception, peppered with clerics, at Lady
Dailey’s) in visiting Australia is to establish “ middle-
class” schools all over our continent. “Primarily they
would be day-schools for girls, and perhaps infants,” but,
though run on strictly Anglican principles, the “ religious
exercises would be of a sufficiently broad description ” to
make a Mahoramedan eligible as a pupil—as an instance,
a Jewish pupil was cited.
But if the middle-class school curriculum is so broad
and non-sectarian, it seems rather a waste of energy on
Sister May’s part to travel all this way just to encourage
Mother Gum in a land where she flourished! exceedingly.
If the schools were meant to be hot-beds of episcopacy
where every youngster has to ask God to bless the Queen
and all the royal family every morning, and divide its
attention between arithmetic and the Athanasian creed,
one could understand the thing at once—but an Anglican
school, which has no objection to jumping on its own
catechism (in individual cases) is too anomalous. Yet,
despite the liberality, it is plain as print that Sister May’s
schools are merely a brilliant Episcopalian effort to catch
the guileless convert in the green ear so that she will rush
the churches later on. The R.C. people know the value,
from an ecclesiastical point of view, of schools where
the pupils are not “ forced ” to join in the pious
exercises.
Bella Bashall’s serpentine dance in “ Genevieve de
Brabant,” at Sydney Garrick—the real attraction of a
somewhat disheartening spectacle showed up that
charmer in a new' light, especially when it got behind her.
Bella serpentines in a most conscientious manner—that is,
the stage is darkened for her entries and exits, and she
clothes (that really is the right word) her shapely form in
pale-pink fleshings, and drapes it simply and primitively
in a few yards of transparency, producing something the
effect of a seed in a peeled grape. No she-serpents are
hall-marked and warranted genuine if they don’t go and
do likewise.
Every movement in the serpentine-dance pourtrays
something more or less convincing. When the dancer
stands with her draperies held up at each side to join over
her head and gets a gas-jet behind her, that is the
“spider’s web” movement—so called, I presume, because
it catches the high-collared d.c. flies. Bella did the spider-
a ot beautifully, but the prettiest movement was the
butterfly, wherein she caught up her flying diaphon-
ousnesses in tw’O great wings at the back, and sprinted
twice round the stage like a startled nymph drying her
bath-towel, or a death-moth winning in a canter—and
didn’t the gallery howl for it again !
The umbrella movement was stupid—the skirts repre.
senting a half-opened parasol, and the dancer the stick,
after which a whirling dance in which the gauzy stuff
switched round her figure, seemed like the furling of a
gamp - though I don’t think it was meant for that. Other
wild swirlings of the illusive draperies represented closing
flowers, fallen petals, waves, and so on, but they weren’t
half so plain to the eye of faith as the spider and the
butterfly, which must be seen to be appreciated. We are
sure to have this new style of pas seal in all the ’mimes,
and Cassandra-like I rise to prophesy that it will become
a weariness in flesh-pink tights before many moons. The
“serpentine” is just the sort of anatomical bit of grace
that is fore-doomed to bore you to death in the long run
—like the accordeon skirt.
A teacheress of dancing has arisen in Sydney who states
that she is solemnly prepared to inculcate the “society
skirt-dance ” to any belle who feels a desire to point her
taper toe at the skylight for the edification of her cronies.
But, what is the “ society skirt-dance ?” A very much-
diluted saltation, I suppose, in which the dancer will kic
about as high as an allotment-peg and flop round
given area like a tom-tit with a broken wing. Because
surely the wily Potts Point matron would never allow her
charges to deliver those billowy Lethbridge kicks at
invisible six-footers—would she? And yet, if propriety
cuts out all the ginger, the society skirt-dancer will be
just as flat and uninteresting as an amateur fiddler, or
the girl who recites her own poetry, or any of the dear
old drawing-room bores. Society had better pause and
reflect before taking the skirt-dance to its blase bosom.
For instance, just think how much worse matters would
have been if the historical barn-dancers (they- are rather
timorously immortalized in a comic-opera encore verse,
by the way) had all been carefully instructed before-hand
in the art of dangling their toes in the air!
Love comes in some queer disguises, hut it isn’t
often that a px-etty girl willingly gives her heart into the
keeping of a nigger-minstrel, is it? It happened this
way. He and she were travelling hitherwards per P. and 0.
boat, and he loved her madly, yet somehow couldn’t make
her responsive enough to risk proposing to her. One
night, nearing port, a nigger entertainment was arranged,
and Romeo corked himself and went on as Bones. He
was a success—a ship’s success—and, after the show, a
very hilarious supper found him next to his darling, who
froze on to him so, that afterwards, on the smoke-stack
or some remote corner like that, he proposed, and was
gratefully accepted. And then the silly things forgot all
about the burnt corks (which seem to argue that Love
hasn't a nose either), but when they came unconcernedly
back into the saloon, the dei-isive yell that rose on the
breeze made them both remember it. Juliet looked as if
she had been qualifying for a piebald competition.
Conventional folks don’t like you to talk of holy matri-
mony as a pecuniary spec., and yet, if it isn’t, answer me
why do those lovely souls who have large banking-
accounts, and .yet don’t seem to know any marriageable
people—why do they always put their ink’m into figures
when they reach out in print for an alter ego? If marriage
were the matter of beautiful sentiment it ought to be,
matrimonial ads. would state how the applicant’s hair
fell in graceful ringlets over his alabaster brow —they
wouldn’t give first place to a gross cash statement, as if
the advertiser had ticketed himself, as at a drapery-sa!e>
so that buyers could see whether they could afford him or
not.
These two little conjugal wanted’s, clipped from an
evening papei-, are cases in point:
Y J ENTLEMAN, aged 40, has about £2OOO, wishes to
meet Lady about same age, with small income.
MILLWARD and COMPANY, Matrimonial Agents,
55 Royal Arcade (Upstairs).
XJ.ENTLEMAN, aged 53, worth £l5OO, wishes to meet
Lady, between 40 and 50, with about same
amount. MILLWARD and COMPANY, Matrimonial
Agents, 55 Royal Arcade (Upstairs).
Set an ink’m to catch an ink’m. Both these blushing
middle-aged Cupids seek to add to their bank-accounts by
the simple process of saying “ I will.” But it is rather
surprising they had enough personal feeling left to put
their ages before their finances. The ideal fin-de-siicle
“ matrimonial ” will read : “£l5OO wants a wife.”
Talking about notices, the S.M.H. revealed an equivocal
“ wanted ” quite recently ;
XTOUSEKEEPER desires SITUATION, bachelors or
single gentlemen, age 25. 205
“ Bachelors or single gentlemen ” is a lovely bit of n&ivete
on the part of this ingenuous house-arigel of 25 (as she is
very careful to state). Soon your decent, sober-minded
male-spinster (I want a term nobody can wink the other
eye at) will object as hard to being called a bachelor as your
orthodox maiden of 50 would if you addressed her as
“ Tottie.”
In “Joan of Arc," at Sydney Her Majesty’s, you don’t
have to consider Marion Hood how she dresses, because the
lady meanders through the melange looking about the
floor for her head-notes, as usual, in only one romantic
notion—white skirt with cuirass of (stage) mail and sleeves
and cap of black and gold, and her long wig golden, too.
The amount of golden hair shaken at you by the bur-
lesquers makes the lovely, one-line Cora Tinnie, who
always wears her own dark hair and an inscrutable ex.
pression, seem more adorable than she might if there
wore less peroxide in the picture. The Heralds and
Chamberlains and things have most of the glittering
splash-work in “Joan,” but the gaudy demeanour of
these people didn’t spoil the effect of Addie Conyers’ red.
radish tights which tapered off to a pair of pretty feet,
nor keep you from noticing that Alice Leamar is rather a
sartorial bore. Whenever Alice has a clear stage, she
always bursts forth in a floppy robe with her waist oebur-
ing at her shoulder-blades and a big feathery hat. One
gets very tired ocularly of a lady who always models one
aspect of the wardrobe on a Greenaway doll.
Lonnen had padded his electric legs for “Joan”—but
in rather an original part—above, not under the knee,
and the effect was that of a man carrying a loaf of bread
in either pocket of his nether garments. But for opera-
glass beauteousness Haslem’s blue-and-white satin King
with long blue legs was the Apollo of the production, and
the d.c. was quite thrilled to know if that mashing
mustivey was crape hair or the real Jamaica. Katie
Barry, in unfamiliar skirts, isn’t large enough to carry
much frill, but she needn’t have worn such a desperately
ugly bonnet, and Marie Jones, in gay red and green, was
reminiscent of “come on” and “go away” railway
signals.
I was cynically amused—at “ Joan of Arc to hear
the ecstatic shrieks of the women when Lonnen padded a
soldier’s chest with carrots to give him more “chuck.”
You’ll always notice this about women—their cackle is
loudest when their own particular trick is being
satirised—tho’ I don’t really mean for a moment that we
do get up symmetry on a bunch of turnips. Look at any
woman during a song alluding to powder and paint and
it’s ten to one she will be convulsed at the thing—and she
will behave to joyously over tight-lacing waggeries, and
all the rest of the alleged funniments that make woman
no mystery to a comic songster.
And, talking about funniments, I wish Lonnen hadn’t
got off that supposititious joke about a “blooming
grape.” Grapes are coming in, and the cheap masher
—whose vocabulary consists of Gaiety phonograms—will
never eat any but blooming grapes until they go out
again. It sounds like vulgar language, and it isn’t, and
that’s just the sort of phrase that charms the very soul
of the drawing-room male nonentity.
I want to seriously correct myself this issue. 1 gave
Miss Gould as the inventress of the improved invalid’s
mattress at the Women’s Ex. As I don’t want to sirp a
leaf off anybody else’s laurel I rise to formally announce
Nurse Fox Harding as the ingenious lady in question.
The Women Suffragists who bearded Sir Dibbs in his
den last week did a noble work for the anti-Suffragists. 1
am told that (for one thing) there were too many ameni-
ties, and smiles and smirks, and there certainly was too
much cant. Nobody will be disposed to take the League
seriously after the comic-operatic dialogue between them
and Sir Dibbs. “ Don’t you want to assist in making the
laws?” asked the Knight. “There’s a difference of
opinion,” chirruped somebody, “ but I’m in favour of it
myself !” Now, wouldn’t that ingenuous answer raise a
roar in any of Gilbert’s libretti? The deputation’s revi-
valistic remarks about the hand of God “driving them
out” makes one quite understand the hand of Dibbs
doing ditto, doesn’t it?
And the whole thing showed how individual a thing
Woman’s Suffrage is in Sydney. Everybody seemed to
know exactly how she felt about it, but not how her
mates felt. They all spoke for themselves, (there
were six spokeswomen), and there was hardly any definite
conclusion among them except on the first issue—the
plain petticoat-vote.
In deference to the circulation of the plate, it has been
decided (at the instance of a number of “ church ladies ”)
to close Manly Baths at ten a.m. on Sundays—to prevent
cleanliness from scoring off godliness. How'ever, I don’t
suppose the kirk will benefit much by the alteration—
unless the hunted bather finds something reconciling in a
washy discourse ?
Lord Carington’s appointment as Lord Chamberlain is
made much of in the English papers and in this connec-
tion, we are again assured (by Jenkins), that the dolly,
painty, little Lady Carington “ is one of the most charm-
ing grandes dames to be met with in London.”
As Lord Chamberlain, the Baron will have to regulate
the royal visiting-list, and to personally make sure that
the ladies at the drawing-room have slipped far enough
out of their corsages to please the royal taste. But I
wonder if the Baron can be trusted not to let a clique run
Buckingham Palace as it did Sydney Government House
when he had office ? The Caringtons were advised whom
to honour and whom to snub, and they learnt it all off
like a lesson, and asked no questions. Baron Carington
ought to pick the presentable dukes for himself.
Things happen very apropos sometimes. At the clos-
ing of the Sydney Women’s Work Exhibition (a muddled-
up affair made worse by ladylike faction-fights) I saw
three vinegary-, poker-backed old society dames with
frozen sympathies and Arctic souls looking out of their
steely eyes. And where do you think they had seated
themselves ? Right under a label with “ Ices ” upon it.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Joan of Arc.”
Garrick “La Fille de Madame
Angot.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Lilliputian Opera Co.
Bijou ... .... “ Walker, London.”
Opera House v .... Alabama Minstrels.
“Joan of Arc,” which succeeded “Car-
men ” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) last Saturday,
has all the good points of the late lamented show,
and a lot, though not all, of its bad ones. It is
beginning to be borne in on the public mind, how-
ever, that one burlesque is about as much like
another as one Chinaman is like himself. There
is the same exceeding fatuousness about them
all; the artistes are not humorous by nature,
therefore they mostly joke by rote with a heavy,
piok-and-shovel variety of mirthfulness ; and the
humour which looked natural at first, now
seems to be blown out of the funny man with gun-
cotton. There is a wide gap between the fun
which is spontaneous and that which is dragged
out by the tail, and British burlesque consists so
exclusively of the latter variety that the tail
threatens to give out. “Joan,” like the two
shows which preceded it, goes best in the first
act, while in the second it hangs fire like a
gun in the Deluge. Also, it has absolutely
no visible ending; it leads nowhere; it is there
one moment, and the next the curtain is down
and it is not. It contains one really amusing inci-
dent, where Lonnen dishonestly tosses up with
the King and thereby breaks that monarch’s bank,
but otherwise it is mostly a serious burlesque with
a feeling of depression in its soul. The parody on
Stanley, by the same wildly-gifted individual,
was doubtless good in the days when that fallen
idol was fresh, and the thud of his decadence was
not yet heard in the land, but that was long, long
ago. The costermongers’ duet, by Lonnen and
Courtneidge, is a tuneful thing enough, only the
costermonger is a purely Cockney product, and
the race which buys its vegetables off a China-
man cannot appreciate him. Probably the soul-
ful Bull has never yet realised that all the
world does not shriek with mirth at his par-
ticular variety of Chinaman, but it is so, none the
less.
* * *
The particular beauty of the present
burlesque, however, lies in the fact that a certain
dragged-out horror connected with an apple which
disfigured its predecessor is not repeated in
“Joan.” The things that are in it are not very
striking, but for the sake of the thing that has
been so benevolently left out it deserves to succeed.
The name-part is played by Miss Marion Hood in
her usual loose and reckless fashion. Miss Hood
does not act in the proper acceptation of the term;
she merely arrives. Sometimes she arrives a little
more definitely than others, but that is all. The
lengthy girl who, from the time of the company’s
arrival up to Friday last, had not offered a single
observation, breaks forth into song and dialogue
this time, and proves reasonably successful
in both undertakings. Miss Alice Leamar’s
star is on the wane. Her dance in
“ Faust,” in the course of which she threw
herself gleefully up against the atmosphere
like a fluffy girl possessed of an evil spirit, was
her great effort, but she seems to have nothing
else at all equal to it. Mr. Lonnen toils inces-
santly all through the piece, and what succes
there is in it is mostly owing to him. The above
is an alleviated compliment, and is meant to be
received in a chastened spirit. Mr. Haslem, who
up to date, has been nobody in particular, makes the
best of a hollow mockery, and seems to deserve a
mockery that isn’t quite so hollow; and the rest
are just as usual, save that Miss Katie Barry
doesn’t look half so witching in skirts as she did
in the other thing. The scenery is as good as
ever, and compared with the piece looks like a
masterpiece with a Kaffir in front of it—which
latter remark is based on the writer’s recollection
of a nigger whom he once found having a fit in an
art-gallery right up against a picture labelled
“ Sweet Simplicity.”
** * *
“Genevieve de Brabant,” is guaranteed
to run at Sydney Garrick till Friday. Even
the most bitter friends of this opera must realise
by that time that it is a poor, thin, washy, littl e
thing which ought to be carried out on a shovel
and thrown over the fence, and it is unfortunate
that Madame Soldene should have chosen such a
melancholy object with which to initiate her
season. Also, it is another melancholy circum-
stance that the company is so weak about the tail
—and there is a good deal of tail to it—that it
isn’t fitted for much better things. Saturday
however, the oast is to be strengthened con-
siderably, and “ Madame Angot ” will be put up.
“ Madame Angot ” is not especially new, but, at
all events, it is a tolerably good opera, whereas
its predecessor was of no account from the
beginning.
** * *
One Cunningham has got ahead of Mestou
by taking a party of Australian blacks, male and
female, to America for exhibition at Chicago. A
correspondent, writing from ’Frisco to The Bul-
letin, says it was a pitiable sight to witness these
poor wretches shivering and weeping at the
extreme cold on board the Monowai. Their
sufferings, avers the writer, were such that the
passengers, after vainly remonstrating with Cun-
ningham, presented a unanimous complaint to the
British Consul at San Francisco. One winter at
the frozen city of Chicago will probably put an
end to these poor blacks ; in any case it would be
interesting to know what security is held for the
return home of any survivors of the party when
their owner is finished with them ; also, which
Australian Government it was that permitted
them to be “ recruited,” or whatever it was, and
who allowed them to be shipped away from
Sydney without inquiry ; and what steps are to be
taken, even at this late hour, for their protection
** * *
Next Saturday (29th October) George
Rignold will x-eturn to the scene of his ancient
glories, and the “Silver King ” will be put up at
Her Majesty’s. The people of Sydney never knew
how much they valued George till he went away,
and when he comes back the occasion ought to be
celebrated by a public holiday. He was one of
the institutions of the city, and now that so many
of the other institutions are in gaol he will be all
the more welcome. It is impossible to remember
now how often we have seen George R. disin-
herited by his stony father, or undone by his
scheming cousin (Jewett, dressed in knicker-
bockers to show his calves, and smoking a cigar-
ette), whereupon he and his weepingwife have gone
away to London and become stone-broke in an attic,
and George has been glad to find a precarious job at
the docks, where a bale of wool has been dropped on
him by a hired ruffian, and his wife has been
removed by the hair to a lunatic asylum while he
was recovering in the hospital, in consequence of
which Geoi’ge has gone back to the old home in a
massive frock-coat on Chi-istmas-day, and found
the lost will up a tree, and his faithful wife has
been discovered partially frozen on a snowball
behind a shrub. Yes, the people of Sydney will
be particularly glad to see Mr. Rignold back
again with the limelight on his mighty chest.
There is hardly anybody on the Sydney stage at
present whose chest can bear inspection.
** * *
Pollard’s Juvenile Opera Cos., in “The
Gondoliers,” scored a good average success at
Melbourne Princess’s on Saturday. The success
was even more creditable to the little people than
it appeared on the surface, inasmuch as a pair of
well-padded damsels in the name parts presented
an air of Gaiety girlism which belied their tender
years. For example, the budding Venus who
undertook Ryley’s part, and played the historic
“legs ” of that popular favourite, pleads guilty to
being only fifteen, although she looks a woman by
comparison with many of the children around her.
“ The Gondoliers ” is a specially difficult opera
for juvenile performance, and a severe test of their
all-round ability, anyway. Much of the humour
of its spoken lines is lost, under present condi-
tions, as a matter-of course. The unavoidable
substitution of girls for boys causes human
interest to get mixed up a good deal, and blunts
the point of many good jokes. Yet the fresh
young virtues of this show are sufficiently numer-
ous to compensate for its venial crimes. The
children, as a body, dance with a neatness
and evident sense of enjoyment that brings
down the house. One feels that the age of inno-
cence has not yet passed from them, and though,
perhaps, the Kingdom of Heaven can scarcely be
likened to a child in a comic opera, still the sight
of those early “plums,” pirouetting without a
thought for the bad, baldheaded men in front, is
better than most sermons. Also, the solo-singing
charms occasionally. Marion Mitchell, as Marco,
maybe said to “knock spots” off Leumane or
Bracy, with the air “Take a Pair of Sparkling
Eyes.” Certainly she is the only Marco whose
delivery of this ditty has received the honour of a
double encore. Maud Beatty, the other Gondolier
aforementioned, also expresses tunefully the
gratifying feeling that her duty has been done.
Both of these maidens seem to be I’ecent stars in a
company which has gained a deal of polish and
proficiency since the Sydney season of ten
months ago. Otherwise the leading juveniles
are the same as appeared in “La Mas-
cotte,” “Mikado,” and “The Pirates,” at the
Criterion. Misses Everett and Stephens play the
two wives prettily, Flo Russell puts on a fan’
amount of frill as the Duchess, and the comic boys
are old friends. Alf. Stephens overacts the Duke
of Plaza-Toro, nevertheless the lad is an unrois-
takeable wag. His voice has cracked beyond
redemption, it is true, but we have to remember
that even Billy Elton was more remindful of a
rusty gate swinging on its hinges than of a
nightingale at sunset. Harry Quealy is a clever
imitation of Howard Vernon as the Grand ln-


THE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1802, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
over all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROUGHES & WATTS
(LIMITED),
BILLIARD TABLE MANUFACTURERS.
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and Indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND,
Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips, &c., &c.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time.
Address:—
O Bond Street, Sydney
: s itor, and the etceteras are satisfactory as
“ The Gondoliers ” went so well on Satur-
tiiat it could run for a week, but as the
lison will only last a fortnight, and three other
operas are available, the bill may be changed
eaV^ <1, * * * *
The Alabama Minstrels have struck the
a,, era House at a happy time. A burnt-cork
dffger with something new to say for himself is
Iways interesting, and when several of these
Parities are gathered together in one theatre, and
l >t to sweet music in a superior manner, they
8 ply the chief want of a race-going population.
Consequently the Opera House was crowded on
Saturday. Minstrel ballad - singing seems _to
varble along on the old familiar lines, being
mostly a praise of mother and moonlight as of
lore but the incidental outbreaks of comedians
like 'Woods and Emerson, Franks and Harvey,
indicate that the brain of the nigger has not yet
hardened into a fossil. A discourse on the un-
'Uiployed problem is worthy of special mention
for its w dl thought-out lunacy and intangible
satire on the drivel of the “representative”
gabbler who lives by his own flatulence, and
thrives upon other people’s want of wits.
* *
At the Bijou they are now finishing the
sixth week of “ A Village Priest ” in a blaze of
elory. This solemn story was not built for the sport-
ing intellect, however, so Brough and Boucicault,
having one eye on business and the other upon
art are about to wink the other optic from sordid
motives. On Saturday they produce “ Walker,
London,” a farcical comedy that has boomed for
200 nights at Toole’s Theatre. No further
guarantee of merit is required. An entertain-
ment that can support the ancient Johnny for
seven consecutive months must indeed be funny,
and the appearance of the leading characters in
baggy breeches is eagerly anticipated.
** * *
Matters elsewhere are more or less satis-
factory. Emerson and Woods’ show puts the
halls in the shade somewhat, and concerts are but
vain things for punters who have gone broke.
One way and another there is a lot of holiday
business about, all the same % Matters are especi-
ally satisfactory at the Alexandra, because the
gifted Greenwood Family fell ill, or something,
last week, and the theatre has remained hermetic-
ally sealed ever since.
* * *
Maggie Moore ended an unprofitable season
at Adelaide Royal on Saturday (Oct. 15), by play-
ing “Struck Oil” and “The Chinese Question”
for her benefit. The theatre is now closed, but
Maggie will bob up serenely at Melbourne Royal
shortly.
At Poverty Point.
Aimee Moore has been fetching the Austral Salonists
with a recitation of Victor Daley’s poem, “The Old Wife
and the New,” (to be found in “ A Golden Shanty ”)
first published in The Bulletin some years ago.
Australian sentiment? Mullen’s sent up to Melbourne
Athenseum, last week, the new- “Life of G. V. Brooke,” by
Lawrence, but the committee returned it, as they did not
think the work of sufficient general interest !
Sydney Lyceum is to open with a pantomime—“ Little
Red Riding Hood.” The seating accommodation of the
new house is: dress-circle, 226 ; stalls, 650 ; and family-
circle, 900, Two more boxes have lately been added to
the dress-circle, in addition to the two originally in-
tended. The drop-scene—an allegorical subject—is being
painted by Phil. Goatcher.
It may be taken as a certainty that the contingent of the
Gaiety Co., now’ in Australia, will be the last to come
here under engagement to Williamson and Musgrove. To
put things mildly, the Australian public is tired of the
Gaiety Co., a fact which the “ firm ” probably recognises.
At Poverty Point: “I’ve got a bad cold—can you
recommend a good oil ? ” ' “ Yes, Theatre Royal.”
Marie Halton, the plump little person, who left “ La
Cieale” in the middle of the run to Violet Varley, in
order to assist in the London production of “Wedding
Eve,” found another prima-donna engaged, and sues
Horace Sedger for breach of contract.
Charles Ryley didn’t sail for England after all, and
rejoins the Comic Opera Co. at Wellington (M.L.). Syd.
Deane will be pleased.
When the O’Rell lectured on “H.R.H. Woman,” ta
Rockhampton, a number of the men left before it was
over. Max’s praise of the women was considered “ too
darned fulsome.’ It would be interesting to hear a
lecture from each of the “leavers” on his own “old
woman.”
Max O’Rell’s allusion to the loyalty of Sandy to the
British throne is always received in solemn silence. And
yet he goes on repeating it.
Willie Edouin has been persuaded by sister Rose (Mrs.
Lewis) to visit Australia. Somewhere about 1865 he left.
After growing out of the juvenilia he made a record as
low’comedian in Australia, supporting Jefferson, &c., and
went to India. We don’t remember him since the timeof
the burnt-out Melbourne Haymarket.
Young Stevens is the industrious principal of Pollard’s
Opera Troupe, and in Geelong last week took, on six
nights, the six leading parts in different comic operas.
The impressive Maud Williamson grow’S more strikingly
like Eloise Juno.
Mr. Otto Linden’s sanguine scheme for raising £lO,OOO
to import an orchestra will probably fail. The meeting at
Sydney was a most humorous affair.
Clement Scott can never be boomed lecturing in Aus-
tralia, and will be duller than Christie Murray. He is
entirely out, gauging his attraction. He can only talk
about the London plays, and people won’t even go to the
play.
The proper name of Pattie Browne is Sarah Ann Brown,
A comp, began it by once printing “Patty” for Sally.
The successive stages were “Sally Brown,” “Patty
Brown,” “Patty Browne” “ Pattie Browne,” but she was
just as nice all the time.
One night Grattan Riggs wandered into Anson’s dress'
ing-room at the Bijou, and after a long study of its
occupant’s phiz, broke out with “ Anson, I believe you’re
the ugliest man in the world.” “Is that so ? ” replied G.
W. “Do you know, Riggs, I’ve been several times mis-
taken for you lately.”
Melbourne paper re the Greenwood family at the
Alexandra. “The leading lady, Miss Maribel Greenwood,
was too ill to appear, and this left no alternative but to
close the theatre, the other talented members of the
family also manifesting signs of indisposition.” No
wonder ; this was the sickest show Melbourne has had for
years.
Fireworks will be resumed on the Melbourne cricket-
ground this summer. A year or two ago the rivalry of
Brock and Pain was keen, but they both cleared out and
the skies have been un-illuminated for several seasons.
The Dampier 00. seem to be striking it rich i,n Maori-
land, chiefly with “Robbery Under Arms” and “The
Miner’s Eight." At sundry times and to divers special
reporters Alfred D, has expressed his belief in a gplden
future for the pure-bred Southern drama, and in the
course of long “interviews” he casually mentions that
his present tour was undertaken in the interests of a new
play for which he is studying local colour. Also, he has
supplied them with a rippling stream of reminiscences,
whilst the steady demand for the opinion of Mr. Alfred
Dampier upon things in general denotes that Lily’s papa
is a distinguished visitor.
It would be interesting to know the names of the banks,
if any, in which Armes Beaumont has lost his money. G.
B. W. Lewis, another old theatrical identity, owes his
straitened circumstances to G. N. Taylor, in whose
defalcations, according to the powerful story of Simpson,
other people had a Anger.
Baron Von Mueller has orated, in Melbourne, on “ De
grade eggsbloraw, Golumpus.”
The Duke of Marlborough’s litho., in shaven face and
peruke wig, is displayed in Melbourne, labelled Maggie
Moore.
At a Brisbane show the other night the entire audience
consisted of eight people, four of whom were on the
“ nod.”
George Rignold’s Christmas pantomime will be “ Blue-
beard.”
Soldene has bad luck in fighting the Gaiety Co., whose
biz. is somewhat on similar lines. With a dramatic crowd
at the other house she’d be all right.
Barrington, who has managed Sydney Alhambra for
years, was asked in the District Court by a solicitor his
Christian name. “Why,” said Judge Murray, “do you
ask his Christian name when you’ve just seen him put his
hat on to take the oath?” Later, Barrington, being
asked a question concerning someone mentioned in the
case, said offhandedly, “ Oh, he’s dead at present 1”
George Rignold is said to be tree-felling at Middle
Harbour with a view to losing flesh and peacefully appear-
ing as Wilfred Denver in the “ Silver King.”
A bear escaped from its den at Lisbon Zoo last
week, and killed three keepers outright ere it could
be shot. Who, that has ever fed these popular favourites
with buns stuck on the end of an umbrella, would have
thought they had so much fight in them? A nurse-girl
once dropped a baby down the pit at London Zoo, and
the bears, after satisfying themselves that the little
stranger wasn’t a bit of pastry, didn’t take the trouble to
hurt it.
Two Poverty Point (Sydney) people have, after over
20 years’ experience, gone back to their respective trades,
plumbing and carpentering,
Arthur Lawrence knows more good yarns about (mum-
mers than any other half-dozen stagers.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis is now a London “stage-coach.”
Franz Garna, the composer, and W. J. Turner-, concert
manager, live inside the same waistcoat.
Miss Kate Millard is the wife of Millard Johnson, the
well-known chemist of St. Kilda (Vic.).
P. 0. Appleton is the only Australian actor with a
university degree. He is a 8.A., Melbourne.
In the Melbourne Express, of March 25th, 1854, appears
a lurid advt. of Messrs. Farrar and Toegtow’s Grand
Mechanical Exhibition of Moving Figures. For all-round
grandeur this show seems to have taken the bun of that
period. It comprised representations of the Burning of
Moscow and Napoleon crossing the Alps, and “at
intervals during the exhibition” a number of wild,
wooden animals (especially “ that huge monster the
elephant with its ponderous limbs”) were said to “step
before the spectators and perform various natural move-
ments.” In the cause of morality Farrar and Toegtow
came cut exceptionally strong, judging from the follow-
ing item on their bill; “The evils of intemperance are
also exemplified by the sight of a man conveying his
intoxicated wife home in a wheelbarrow. She rises up,
shakes her fist at her husband until he loses all patience,
then sets down the barrow-, deliberately knocks her back-
wards, and resumes his painful journey.” Here vvas a
Moving Figure indeed! The prices of admission-
reserved seats, ss. ; gallery, 2s. (id.—suggest that the
spectacle of a man deliberately giving his wife beans prior
to pressing forward with the barrow, was an over-
whelming success.
Paddy Maher, well-known variety artist, died in Mel-
bourne hospital, the other day, and a benefit for him is
turned into one for funeral expenses. Fetches to memory
the same thing occurring over Fenton, the little reporter,
a good w-hile ago.
The Wild Cat Column.
Attorney-General Shiels has practically stated
that the Crown will not prosecute any directors of Mel-
bourne banks for publishing false balance-sheets until he
is supplied with “ evidence of the knowledge of the per-
sons accused of the falsity of such item or items.” This
is too contemptible. What a degrading squirm for the
chief law officer of a civilised country 1 All non-privileged
swindlers are prima-facie held accountable in law for
documents bearing their signature.
# # *
Theory of Victoria isn’t “Let them be cruci-
fied !” but “ Let us be purified !”
# # *
The Age was last week inspired to print this
impudent threat; “Wherever good grounds of action can
be shown to lie (against Melbourne bank marauders) a
prosecution will infallibly take place, even if the country
has to be taxed to pay the costs.” A hundred directors
could be prosecuted for less money than will be spent on
Parliament House buildings within the next few months.
This attempt to make a handful of fools cry out against
the expense is the Crown’s latest policy, and the Age is
playing its Premier Building Society game over again.
# * #
Melbourne Leader publishes a list showing the
persistent fall in Australian bank-shares within the last
18 months. Somehow the Federal, the bank that was
founded by Syme’s friend, Jimmy Munro, is nowhere on
the list, though it can show almost the biggest fall in the
whole lot.
# * #
Extract from the correspondence of the Austra-
lian Banking Company. Telegram from ex-manager
M’Namara to the bank: “Please instruct caretaker to
have my room thoroughly cleaned and dusted and aired
for Monday, Ist. K. M'Namara.” Telegram from the
acting-manager to M’Namara: “I’ll dust the floor with
you, please God, on your first appearance." The defunct
loan office was a pious institution. It was even going to
mop up the boards with its discharged manager, “ please
God.”
* * *
The recently-cabled declaration by Tasmanian
Agent-General Sir E. Notoriety Braddon, that 60,000 per-
sons will probably inhabit Zeehan (Tas.) before the end of
’92, reads like 'sarcasm. Or is it a cruel immigration
boom? Zeehan has lost more than half its population
within a very few months, and numbers are still leaving
for Bendigo and other places. Auction-sales of bankrupt
stock are of daily occurrence, and the prices realised tell
their own tale : “At a recent sale, sets of harness which
cost the storekeeper £4 10s., brought 25.: horse-collars,
Is. ; moleskin trousers, Is. and 2s. ; and half-guinea hats
were sold from 9d.”
* # *
The Bulletin’s prophecy is that those who
want to stay on the Zeehan-Dundas silver-field at the end
of the year will be 600. Even Agent-General Braddon
an’t revive a stone-dead boom. But London may not
take him seriously. He is the brother of the well-know
novelist, and it evidently runs in the family.
* * *
The final stage of that awful silver - frost
(Webb's) has been reached by the sale of mine and plant
for £600; purchaser, Captain Dunstone, who hougnt
presumably only for the machinery. Its shares reached .1 j
because many of the unhappy public believed they wouia
one day reach £lO. As usual, the ore was found rtfac-
tory it always is in N.S.W. when too poor for dividends.
Randolph Adams, the manager, was imported from tne
American silver-fields. He must have had much difficulty
in suppressing swear-words when he saw the show', hut
he tempered the wind to the shorn lamb, and his repoits
were surrounded with qualifications. And so with another
ghastly failure, Castlerag, on which he encouraged the
shareholders to spend more money in the hope that the
vein might make into a big defined body. Both mines
were duffers at the surface, which, in the writer’s experi-
ence, is the best proof that they would be duffers to all
time.
* # *
The trouble about the Oakey Creek mine, on
the old Wattle Flat field, N.S.W., is, we think, over. An
examination of the mine has demonstrated that the
former tributors struck the richer stone several weeks
after the purchase of the property. The company worked
the shoot of stone until it pinched to a few inches by the
footwall coming up. Then Mini and party, the present
owners, took it on tribute. First they gouged about the
old slopes, from which they had several 5 to 7dwt. crush-
ings, barely sufficient to pay. Then they determined to
extend the face, w'here the reef slowly enlarged, the last
crushing going 15dwls. On this they, with the assistance
of a local storekeeper, purchased for £5OO. Suddenly the
reef wonderfully improved to 4iozs., then to 6Jozs., and
in the middle of the shoot it is Bft. thick 1 It reads well,
doesn’t it? But wait-this reef runs in wedges. This
one is shaped like a boat, thick in the centre and tapering
away to next to nothing, in length about 20ft. Its sudden
richness is attributable to the intersection of several
leaders or droppers from the hanging-wall. They do not
pass through, but ending with the reef have fed it with
gold. It is no new idea. We have seen it often else-
where. Judged by the light of the past it these
“ droppers ” do not continue the reef will become poorer,
and already we regret to see signs of it in the face. The
tributors are a hard-working party who deserve the lift
they have made, and we can only hope the shoot of rich
stone will last long enough to give them many £5O-a-man-
a-week orushings.
# * *
Mining dullness, the like of which N.S.W. has
never seen before, has no terror for the men who peg out
the moment gold is struck. The improvement in the
aforesaid wedge of stone at Oakey Creek has caused the
surrounding ground to be pegged for, it is said, miles.
The shoot is 20 ft. long and very hazardous, yet they are
all “on the line of reef.” To reach soma of the pegged-
out blocks it ivould have to spin round like a cartwheel.
# * *
According to the last returns published, the
Bank of N.S.W. holds £17,000,000 in fixed deposits in the
Australasias.
* * #
The “audible” telephone, patented by Rev.
Collier, of Sydney, is, we notice, being floated in London
for £50,000, under the auspices of the benevolent Mr.
Harry Seymour Foster.
* # *
Millidge, late of the Mercantile Bank of Aus-
tralia, Melb., tells a London interview r er that the collapse
was all Sir Matthew Davies’ doing. Whatever he said was
law, and, no matter how' wild his ideas, they were carried
out. “ You can have no idea of the absolute confidence
that man inspired us with.” Millidge, by the way, says
he hopes to get a situation in London. Which, in a very
roundabout way, reminds us that Somebody, of B.N.Z.
fame, is believed to be the confidential adviser of a very
large finance co. doing businessin Australia.
* * #
Because a few good assays have been made from
pyritous stone taken from the Crown of the Peak mine,
whose crushings average under half an oz., a Sydney
newspaper says: “These returns should satisfy the most
greedy shareholder.” Rubbish.
* # »
By virtue of its working capital the Last Call is
slowly but surely eating itself to death. The directors
endeavoured to spend the remaining £5OOO on another
property where the prospect of a return on the outlay
was less remote, but found they had no power to do so ;
consequently they had no alternative but to waste good
gold in a goldless mine. This hopeless wild cat is reli-
giously' quoted on the official list of that dignified institu-
tion, the Sydney Stock Exchange.
* * *
“ Moses,” in Labouchere’s Truth, continues to
advocate English investment at Charters Towers and
Croydon. He has certainly hit on two splendid fields, but
should remember that the biggest fields often have the
biggest “ wild cats,” and that to discriminate in London
between the genuine and the bogus mines in Queensland
is a pretty big undertaking.
# • •
Counsel: “What do the letters M.I. after your
signature stand for?” Witness: “ Why, Mining Ingineer,
of course. What else?”
• * •
An old custom in colliery book-keeping has lately
caused two N.S.W. law-suits. When the skips of coal
reach the pit-head they are weighed, and then sent up a
steep incline into a huge shoot. On the way up the plane
pieces weighing from a few ounces to 30 or 401bs. con-
tinually drop off. In the course of a month in many
mines these droppings amount to as much as 50 tons. It
is collected, weighed, and sent up into the shoot, but
instead of being placed on the books as accumulated
droppings, it is put to the credit of the produce merchant,
ironmonger, or other tradesmen who supply the mine,
while their accounts for forage, ironmongery, &c., do not
appear on the books at all. That is, these tradesmen are
placed on the books as miners, and are paid, not for goods
supplied, but for coal cut. By this means the working
expenses of the mine are considerably lessened and the
uninitiated misled. A colliery doctor, who received pay-
ment at the rate of a shilling per fortnight for every man
working in the mine, noticed a discrepancy between his
list and the list on the pay-sheet. Thinking he was being
defrauded, he sued the Co. for a shilling due on account
of one A. 8., whose name was on the pay-sheet, but not on
the medico’s list. He was considerably astonished when,
in the Court, he found that the opposing lawyer was
A. 8., who had in reality been paid for legal services,
though appearing on the books as a miner. In another
case an imported manager, who knew nothing of the
custom, found on the sheet that one miner had earned
£5O in one week. On enquiring, he found that no one of
that name had ever worked in the mine. He telegraphed
particulars to the Sydney directorate, who caused the
arrest of the former manager. The matter was easily
explained in the Court, and proved to be the common
established custom at the mines.
• • •
Brisbane insolvents are generally well treated
and get their furniture, but it is not often a bankrupt gets
household furniture and horse and buggy thrown in, all
for £5 payable in three weeks, as happened the other day.
» * ~ *
Lewis Lloyd, of the Burraga (N.S.W.) mine,
now shut down because of the low price of copper, has
taken over £600,000 worth of copper out of his mine,
which formerly employed over 300 men. At 800 ft. there
is a lode 20ft. thick, containing 10 per cent, eopper.
« * *
“The blue ribbon!” exclaimed the general
manager of a Sydney bank, the other day—“it's only a
phase of the confidence-trick.”
• * *
So sure as a N.S.W. goldfield becomes quiescent
“ our own correspondents ” wire that if the Mines Depart-
ment would only forfeit leases for non-compliance with
labour conditions the field would boom again. Any
excuse for their previous misrepresentations.
# # *
Has a crushing crushed the Crushed Dog? We
heard most of the Crushed Dog while the reef was “ show-
ing gold freely,” when the assays were wonderful, and
the stone was only waiting the arrival of the teams, and
the teams were awaiting the improvement of the roads.
Finally "we hear that the teams had started and the
crushing commenced. The world knows not the result.
Everything is very peaceful and silent.
Nymagee,lifter paying a lot of dividends and
passing through the typical experience of an Australian
copper-mine, has gone into liquidation. What is wanted
to hoom copper is a big European war. In Franoo-
-I'russiau war-time copper went up to £l3O, and Moonta
and Wallaroo shares to £5OO and £lOOO each. Ever since,
the godly Adelaide shareholders have prayed that the
Rhine may run a banker of blood.
• * •
True Blue, it is reported, has banked 505 ozs.
for the week. Again we ask, what does this mean? Is it
from plates or boxes, and, if from the latter, what was
the tonnage ?
* * *
That part of Mt. Costigan plant which consist
of a 20-head battery with power and annexes, has been
purchased for the Wentworth mine, N.S.W. Erected at
a cost of £6OOO, and sold for £lOOO ! It was put to con-
centrate the ore from that mine, and, of course, the man
who made the blunder hadn’t to pay for it. Poor share-
holders 1
* * *
Last and usual wheeze. The Mount Boole
Marvel “ gold is in the pyrites,” and in consequence of an
assay of 38oz. chipped from a lewd, block brought all the
way to Sydney by a director, “ steps are being taken to
furnish appliances for saving concentrates.” Share-
holders, nevertheless, refuse to_ be comforted, and
hundreds of forfeited shares are being advertised.
* * *
Chief Inspector of*Mines Slee does himself the
honour of reporting to the N.S.W. Minister for Mines on
the Gundagai mines, which he thinks may yet be amongst
the richest of N.S.W., and adds that what is wanted is
capital and development. Of course. We have heard
Slee say the same of lots of other places which have had
capital and development. The same has been said ot
almost every mining field in N.S.W.
# # #
Another breakdown at the Chandler’s Creek
mine. This time the false-bottom of the Huntingdon
Mill went to pieces, necessitating a clean-up, when, by
recovering amalgam before lost in the cracks, 87oz. gold
were got. For Dalmorton the results from this mine have
been wonderfully regular.
#‘‘ # *
The Age devoted five to ten-line pars., under
the head of “Intercolonial News,” to the ease against the
Australian Banking Co. directors. But when it came to
“Statements for the Defence,” the Age gave them special
half-columns in the best part of the artful rag,
* * *
Not a year ago an “ under-offer ” man found
himself awkwardly fixed by the premature advent of the
capitalist. Noble thought, though by no means original ;
he could ill-afford it, but he would make the capitalist
very drunk and while suffering a recovery from back-
block whisky the man from town would, in the morning,
no doubt, complete his little arrangement with the
owners. But the capitalist, a very hard man to make
drunk, quite enjoyed the fun of seeing his friend being
carried upstairs to bed. He arose with the lark ; the
other man awoke at noon—to have the owners describe
him as an idiotic humbug. Realising the situation he
sneaked off and kicked himself home.
# * *
Of the N.S.W. mines, privately said a very big
and expert English capitalist (representing himself and
other very big and expert English capitalists) who recently
visited Australia: “ I find they are nearly all for sale, and
that in itself is a very poor recommendation.” We regret-
fully admit it. One, owned by a few men, was pro-
minently brought before him. The representations
respecting it were highly encouraging. There were the
bank-returns of thousands of ozs. of big ore. He decided
to visit. He saw the owners and ascertained the price,
upwards ot £20,000. He asked for three weeks to enable
him to overhaul it, and went to another field, the owners
promising to write him on the subject. They did—
declining, on the ground that three .weeks’ inspection of
any mine before purchase “ was foreign to the spirit of
colonial mining enterprise.” He laughed and left.
# * *
A man—evidently just down—visited a Mel
bourne legal manager’s office and stated that he wanted
to pay a call on the Gonebung Extended, the shares in
which had come down from 16s. to 6d. The clerk in-
formed him that his shares were forfeited for the 3rd
call (he wanted to pay the Bth), at which he grew very
indignant; but when it was explained that they had been
sold by auction, and had realised ss. each, a seraphic smile
spread over his features, and he invited the whole office
out to have a drink.
* # *
A Wesleyan parson in Adelaide, who found the
mining-boom more profitable than labour in the Vineyard,
and who left the service of the Husbandman, is now earn-
ing a very precarious livelihood on the “ corner.” Shares
went back on him.
• # *
There is another machine being patented which
is going to abolish the stamper battery. In hundreds of
instances, after a very brief existence, it does away with
itself instead, and the old stamp still remains. It was
used centuries ago ; numerous improvements have been
made in detail, but the principle is the same to-day as
when the shanks were of wood and the heads of stone.
With ordinary care life is too short to see a stamp-mill
wear out.
• • •
Letter received by the secretary of a N.S.W.
gold mining co., in reply to an imperative demand upon
a shareholder for the payment of a call Dear Sir,-I
have vour letter, and note that your directors propose to
proceed against me. According to your prospectus, one
of the objects of the co. is to seek, win, and work gold.
Things not turning out well, your directors apparently
consider it their duty to seek, win, and work gold else-
where— i.e., out of me. I can assure you, however, that
1 am not an auriferous vein—the only lode I possess is a
load of debt, and as a gold-mine I shall be a distinct
failure. Your prospectus estimated a yield of loz. per
ton on 20,000 tons of quartz crushed per annum. You
may crush me, but you will find that 1 won’t yield nearly
so much as that, for my person (which for the purpose of
this calculation may be considered quartz) weighs,
roughly speaking, only about lOst. If crushed imme-
diately, I estimate that it would yield asunder: Gold,
nil; silver, 3s. ; copper, 4jd. ; bismuth (in an indigestion-
mixture lam taking) a trace. Deduct cost of crushing,
say £s.—Yours faithfully, S.B.
# * *
The biggest stamp-battery in the world is that
of the Treadwell Mill, Alaska, U.S., consisting of 240
heads, 96 concentrators and 12 rock-crusfiers, requiring
altogether a motive-power of 500 horses, whicli is deve-
loped by a single Pelton wheel, 7ft. dia., operating under
a head of 490 feet and 630 cubic feet of water per minute.
The machinery covers several acres.
*' * *
We are asked if this statement, appearing in a
Sydney paper, in re the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney and the Commercial Bank of Australia is correct:
“ The only things in common between the two hanks,
beyond the similarity of their designation, are that Mu
shares of both are £lO each, and are both paid up to
£4.” The statement is incorrect. The shares of the
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney are £25, and are paid
up to that amount, but the bank’s charter provides a
further liability of £25 a share—only, however, in case of
winding up. In the case of the Union Bank fully-paid £25
shares the charter in such an event provides a liability of
£5O a share.


OH ! JERUSiLLEM ! ! ! QTXJT .'V
£2.
i 'i ’:
0
;
I'° "° l *° H ******* ■■>«« 0110 of the greatest pleasure, of life, we have lilted
provided, as follows:
1 Do/.. DRY PLATES
1 PRINTING FRAME
2 EBONITE DISHES
1 PORCELAIN DISH
1 FOCUSSING CLOTH
1 Set SCALES and WEIGHTS
1 -RUBY LANTERN
1 MEASURE GLASS
Etc., Etc., Etc.
ALL CHEMICALS FOR DEVELOPING
ALL CHEMICALS FOR PRINTING
SENSITIZED PAPER
PHOTOGRAPHIC MOUNTS
And also, a complete GUIDE TO PHOTOGRAPHY, that will teach anyone surely and quickly how to
To take Pictures 4| x 3J inches (rather larger than Carte de Vi site)
Do. OA x inches (rather larger than Cabinet)
Tllis 18 in OVWI T way an excellent turn-out—not a toy, as are many that are now sold
FROST & SHIPHAM, ‘'My
<O2, 474 AND 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
take pictures as well as any professional.
£2 0 0
.£3 10 0
Opticians,”
Personal Items.
The shades of knights arj falling fast in
Melbourne.
Sculptor Woolner will be, remembered
longer in Sydney than London.
The N.S.W. Government should gazette
not the J.’sP., but the men who are not J.’sP.
Fergus Hume’s father keeps a private
asylum in Dunedin (M. L.) Fergus was born
there.
The late Lord An cram, accidently shot in
N.S.W. some months ago, left J 122.000 per-
sonalty.
“Indignant” writes; “Strip Sir M. H.
Davies of his title ; ” to which The Bulletin un-
hesitatingly says no.
The Saturday Review once said of Bruu-
ton Stephens’“Convict Once,” that “either the
heroine or the author should be hung.”
“ Sir Henry Parkes has the biggest head
in Australia.” No—Parkes has more hair than
the average Australee man. That’s all.
Coroners Youl and Chandler, of Melbourne,
were both appointed in 1857, and for thirty-five
consecutive years have been sitting on corpses.
It is now asserted that Lord Hopetoun
“gives away more money than people know of.”
He could barely manage to give away any less.
“Had India possessed him in the last
century, she might have done without her Warren
Hastings. —Editor Fitchett on Sir George Greg.
Mrs. Onslow, the Camden Park (N.S.W.)
millionairess, has again returned to England, and
will be absent, so ’tis said, for a couple of years.
Rumoured that the Law Institute (Melb.),
after finishing with Grave and Kidstori, intends
having a slap at a certain moderately moral
lawyer.
A well-known “self-made” man who has
just been publicly endeavouring to demonstrate
his perfect guilelessness, owns eight suburban
houses of ill-fame.
The new Mayor of Melbourne, Arthur
Snowden, the partner of millionaire attorney
Gillott, was for years in the last generation a
Collingwood Councillor, and yet they never made
him Mayor.
The Sydney Jesuits have now
in their novitiate an M.D., awatch-
maker, and a soft-goodsman.
Major Williams, Staff-adjutant
of the S.A. Militia, as a young
officer was stationed at “ the Neck ”
where the bloodhounds were kept to
prevent convicts from leaving Port
Arthur. He was in Ballarat with
his regiment at Eureka stockade
time, and he was in the last Maori-
land war. He is now a very harm-
less old gentleman.
Wx-agge, the Queensland
weather-prophet, is one of the cham-
pion walkers of the North. He may
be met three or four times a day
strolling home for his meals to
Taringa, about four miles from
Brisbane. He is also a conchologist,
and one day a party, including
Wragge, went down to Stradbroke
Island. Wragge and another started
off at daybreak shell-gathering. His
companion returned to camp at
midday nearly walked to death.
Wragge returned at dusk. He had
gone right round the island, about
55 miles.
In Edwin Hodder’s biography
of George Fife Angas, “father and
founder of South Australia,” this
“recognised saint” and prosperous
merchant is credited with being
“the first to suggest that a canal
be cut through the Isthmus of
Darien.” Now, history has hitherto
credited Saint-Sirnon, the eminent
Socialist, with being the pioneer
in advocacy of the Panama Canal,
just as he was the first to plan the
connection of Madrid with the ocean
by an artificial water-way, and just
as his pupil, Enfantin, undoubtedly
inspired de Lesseps, then a St.-
Simonian, with his idea of con-
structing the Suez Canal. Heaps
of people know these to be historical
facts if Mr. Hodder doesn’t, and
most are aware that St.-Simon
preceded Angas by at least two
generations, though he did not,
as did the South Australian settler,
advocate the cutting of the Darien
Isthmus in order to give “ facility
of despatch for missionaries and the
circulation of the Word of God.”
St.-Simon was incapable of such
humbug.
It is sad to learn from the cable liar that
Tennyson, in his last hours, showed much pleasure
at the receipt of sympathetic telegrams from Her
Majesty the Queen.
Sir James M‘Bain, President of the Vic-
torian Legislative Council, always reads the Lord’s
Prayer. He doesn’t yet know it well enough to
dispense with the print.
Sergeant Kingdon, who caught Captain
Wise in his arms as he fell before the Eureka
stockade, kept a hotel at Wolseley, S.A., until
quite recently. He is now dead.
Sir Arthur Palmer (Q.) considers Dilke’s
biography in Stead’s Review “indecent enough
for anything.” Sir Arthur was an expert bullock-
driver once. He ought to know !
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
A recent appointment to the Australian
magisterial bench is known in his own district as
dirty B——. Late in December every year he has
a bar of soap sent him as a “Christmas card.”
Lachlan Mackinnon, late general manager
of the Argus, took .the first lot of cattle over front
Sydney to Adelaide. He was also very near
becoming commandant of the Victorian police.
The late Baronet Campbell, of West Aus-
tralia, was a great stickler for his titular distinc-
tion, even in the newspaper-office to which he was.
attached. Which is not remarkable, considering
all the circumstances of the case.
The family of Cardinal Cullen, of Dublin,
has done well in ecclesiastical dignities. Three
nephews are big men in N.S. Wales—Cardinal
Moran, of Sydney, Bishop Murray, of Maitland,
and Monsignor Verdon, of Manly.
, Pastor Fitchett, in the Re view of Reviews,
says that the Victorian mallee region is a “ land
of Goschen.” The land of Goshen spelt with a
“c!” The good pastor has'evidently been land-
booming. The money-changers are in the temple
again.
Mr. E. P. Field, the well-known Sydney
barrister who preaches in the street at lunch-hour
every day, is an old pressman. Just think of a
newspaper-man turning street-parson ! It is
generally the parsons who are converted to tho
press.
Old Anglican Dean Macartney, of Mel-
bourne, is 93 years old, and is now engaged in
fighting the total abstinence cranks. “I entreat
my abstaining friends not to injure the cause of
real temperance by denouncing all who do not
agree with them.”
Cardinal Moran lectured the other day
before Governor Jersey, Chancellor Manning and
other heretics on Sir Thomas More. Jersey has
been asked to read a paper at St. John’s College.
Perhaps he will now oblige—subject, His Grace
Archbishop Cranmer.
The favourite song of Frank Dutfy, the
Melbourne barrister, is “The British Lion” —
“ Take care how you tread on his tail! ” Frank’s
father long laboured to pull that tail from its
socket, till the British Lion turned round and
gave him a tail to his name.
Baron von Mueller’s crowning the portrait
of Columbus, after his Melbourne oration, went
perilously near the bathetic. It palled to recollec-
tion funny Mayor Gatehouse (who used to ride
RIVALS.
THE FAVOURED ONE: “He says he loves me so that
he could eat me.”
THE SLIGHTED ONE: “I daresay he’d try you on a
dog, first.”
home on a sausage-machine o’ mornings) thrusting
the golden crown on Madame Ristori’s head.
The Prince of Wales, it is cabled, went to
the races instead of toTennyson’s funeral. This was
brutally honest, at any rate. The Prince has always
shown his liking for champagne, and gambling, and
big cigars, and the society of rou6s and fast
women. He cares nothing for “ boetry and baint-
mg.”
Only a few days before the cablegram
announcing Mr. Francis Abigail’s arrest appeared
m the London papers, some business men.in that
city were referred by him to Sir Saul Samuel for
an assurance as to his stability and commercial
integrity. Verily, at times the Agent-General is
in a tight place.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
George Collins Levey, C.M.G., has been
moving heaven and earth for the last twelve
months.to get the appointment of director of the
Victorian court in the Imperial Institute. Levey
would tit in well with the “old gang,” for he
knows a thing or two about exhibitions, and how
they can be “ worked.”
Judge Holroyd, grandfather of the present
Judge Holroyd, of Victorian Supreme Court, was
the Judge in the great ease, in 1817, of Rex v.
Thornton for the murder of Mary Ashford. The
notable point was that Thornton’s defence was
THE PRINCE IMPERIAL OF WOOLOOMOOLOO.
His screne highness waiting for his coachman—a Sydney
sketch from life.
“wager of battle,” and he got off scot-free. It
was the last case of such defence.
On _ those rare occasions when Queen
Victoria comes to a window of Buckingham
Palace, or any other such establishment, for the
purpose of beaming upon a loyal multitude, Her
Gracious is hoisted upon a stool to make her look
moderately regal. Y.R. is shortest in her con-
tinuations, and her children take after her.
Reflections of a hangman, or every man to
his trade. A man and" his big dog had taken
refuge from the rain in a Sydney suburban
waiting-station. Presently the N.S.W. hangman
came along and sat down. “ That’s a fine dog,”
said he, addressing its proprietor, “it ’ud be
sudden death if ’e got hold of yer throat.”
A Southern paper reports the death of
Samuel Griffith at Eehuca (Vic.). This shows the
danger of bearing such a name. The Bearer of
the Scythe is old and nearly blind, and when he
deciphered the name on Griffith’s door-plate he
promptly went in and killed him without the
slightest idea that it wasn’t the right Samuel,
M'Kenzie, the Maoriland Minister for
Lands, had a disagreement with Pish, M.L.A.,
in a hotel the other day, and was hauled off by
his friends just as he was shooting a bottle of
Pickles at his enemy. Consequently one of
M'Kenzie’s opponents rises in the House to point
out that he is the only man who takes pickles to
Fish,
Percival Ball has finished a statue of the
late millionaire Ormond, of Melbourne, the worthy
moneybags who was so loyal that he wished to
call his working-men’s college “The Leopold.”
Hacking marble in memory of such benevolent
mammonites is inglorious drudgery, for an artist
likes to worship heroes as well as eat bread-and-
butter. >
A Methodist clergyman lately enlisted in
the Salvation Army in Australia as an officer,
though he had been many years esteemed in his
sect, and has a wife and grown-up daughter. He
entered the Melbourne Cadets’ Training Home,
and, in a red guernsey, sold the War Cry in Mel-
bourne streets. He is now in command of one of
the N.S.W. “ regiments.”
A late M.P., of N. S. Wales once belonged
to the local Permanent Artillery, and appeared at
drill in very gnarled boots, for which offence he
was severely reprimanded. Next day he turned
up in his socks. When brought before the
authorities he said, “I wore my boots yeshtei’day
— (hie)— and they didn’t pleash you, so to-day I’ve
— (hie) —come without them.” Court-martial'led.
The joy of Bibbs’ life appears at present
to consist in the fact that in England he got a
more flattering reception than ever was accorded
to Parkes. It is rumoured that he has forwarded
to his dear old friend a huge framed copy of the
photograph taken of the royal group, in which ho
figured at Warick Castle. We should like to be
behind the door when Parkes gets that picture.
Before Max O’Rell came to Rockhampton,
a picture of himself alongside some dolls graced
an East-street shop-window. His first night was
a crusher. He had not proceeded far in his
lecture, when a voice from the crowd asked—
“ Why don’t you make them bloomin’ dolls talk ?”
The secret was out—most of them had paid to
hear a great ventriloquist make five dolls speak
at once.
Queen Victoria has sent Lady Tennyson a
letter of condolence in which she says that
Tennyson was “ever kind to me.” When John
Brown died the Queen said just the same of the
deceased flunkey, and even that habitual toady and
court jester, London Punch, was stung into
publishing a batch of satirical verses, concluding
with the pregnant words “ who wouldn’t be good
to a Queen ?”
Francis Abigail’s statement as to tl
generosity of his counsel is interpreted as mem- 16
that B. R. Wise, his former Ministerial
had defended him without fee. Anyhow it ; U , 8 ’
likely that Pilcher, Q. 0., gave him the benefit ” k
his acute intellect gratis. That sardonic barrki
is “keen” on his fees. It is related that onn» •
the midst of a forcible speech for the defence r
was the case of a civil servant charged with .
bezzlement) he turned round and drew the off
ney’s attention to the fact that the hour had e.
for a refresher. C01 «e
It is well known that
obituaries are kept ready •
newspaper - offices. Them
generally about 300 on hand if
the Argus office (Melb ) w
Tennyson’s death reduced IK
number to 299. Old Tom p u ia
wrote over 40 obituaries for th
Argus, but died before any of
them appeared. A number of
Ins are still on hand. Generally
the Argus Parliamentary IT J’
occupy the recess in compili *
obituariesandsuch-like. “Peter”
Symmons tells how he once
had to interview Coroner Yonl
on this errand. He began to
smooth the way with some
white-lying about a series of
“ Men of the Time ” that the
Argus was preparing, but gouty
old Youls eye twinkled and ho
said, “All right, my lad, but
I m not dead yet! ” Symmons
got his notes, though.
Sir Frederick M‘Cov
K.C.M.G., M. A., D.Sc., F.R g *
&c., is the senior and oldest
professor in Melbourne Univer.
sity, being the last survivor of
the original four professors
brought out at the foundation of
the University in 1854. Of the
others, Henry Erskine Rowe
(classics) died in 1855, William
Parkinson Wilson (mathematics)
w /, ■ . j n I ?7f’ f nd William Edward
Hearn (Instory and political economy) in 1888.
John Whiteman, the blacksmith-poet, who
died the other day in Melbourne, was the husband
of Alice Cornwell, alias Madame Midas (who
resumed her maiden name after she quarrelled
with and left poor old John). The fact of her
marriage was not known to everybody, and Phil.
Robinson, the London journalist (wdio became no
end of a pal to Madame), once tripped over it
Phil, was talking to his fair-haired friend on
1 hnders-street station when Whiteman came
along. “Ah, Whiteman, how are you? Let
me introduce you to Miss Cornwell.” “Thank
you, old fellow,” was the reply, “but I’ve met
my wife before ! ” The Cornwell was rather a
beauty in her somewhat icy way (though you
never can tell—we have seen snow-capped vol-
canoes) and used to smite badly the men who
assembled to breakfast at her Clarence Hotel what
time she sate at the table’s head in a pale-blue
wrapper and served the chops. Prince Louis of
Battenberg was a worshipper at her shrine, and
dedicated to her a piece of piano-music—or she
dedicated a piece of piano-music to him, we forget
which. Anyhow, old John Whiteman didn’t like
Louis of Battenberg, and “stouched ” him on the
jaw—why, Heaven only knows, unless it was
through that mere unreasoning jealousy which so
often takes possession of old men with beautiful
young wives. Miss Cornwell had strong literary
tastes, and doubtless married, John while she was
still young and green, because he was accounted a
poet-had he not published a book of verse ? By-
and-bye she began to find out that there were in
Pie world other and more accomplished bards,
lo women—never marry a poet who is not young.
Michael O’Reilly, who died suddenly, the
other day, at Malvern, Vie., aged 69, had of late
years been a Civil-servant, but was formerly well-
known as a journalist. For years he edited the
Banner of Belfast, which he wrote with a
waddy, and thus gained for himself a reputation
as the I hadeus O’Kane of the South—or perhaps
it was that Thadeus O’Kane was the Mick
O Reilly of the North. Both men, we believe,
were originally educated for the R.C. church, and
both were distinguished for the resolute and con-
sistent manner in which, while not openly abandon-
ing the faith of their fathers, they resisted priestly
encroachment upon the secular sphere, and
cheered for the undermost dog in the fight. Like
the gallant old O’Kane, O’Reilly ran his paper
only incidentally to get a living—it was the
delight of his life to make, even at the risk of his
daily bread, the most outspoken and bitter attacks
upon those whom he considered public enemies.
When at last poverty compelled him to throw up
the sponge at Belfast, he proceeded to Melbourne,
where, after a time, he established the Irishman,
a party paper which soon incurred the hostility of
the priests, who cursed it while they publicly
blessed its rival, the subservient Advocate,
which, as a consequence, defeated the IRISHMAN
with great slaughter. By this time, however,
O Reilly had lost much of his energy, and he did
not again become journalistically prominent. In
his youth he was a fiery spirit : it was he who,
when Queen Victoria visited Dublin, during the
great famine, draped his house in black and flew
a black flag from the balcony. For this he was
arrested and tried for treason, but was acquitted.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, <£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Deaf gentlemen cured of deafness of 15
years’ duration. Description sent to any sufferer.
Bowen, 358 Collins-street, Melbourne. *
That feeling of weariness so often experienced
results from a sluggish condition of the blood.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens and invigorates
the system. It is a highly concentrated extract
and economical to use.


Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
'Volke's Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Woj.ke'B Schnapps takes the lead.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
rEMULL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLMU
FLOUU.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.— Pure, Palatable, Perfect.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
the best invigorator out.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations.
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at IjX
lowest rates. Complete Drill- K
ing Rigs on sale. Expert fj& j
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sop-,
•nlied to suit the various/
strata. — WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 2-1 rZk f
Clarence St., Sydney. *
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
‘i‘! A ;i (iaroncc'Sfi'crtr
S\ DM A’.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Should that coalition come off Parkes will
oe the front legs sure-but they’ll .walk back-
" There are indications that the S. A. Lahour;
party willing to settle their differences with
K p!min<r a question to Gladstone, said the
Bobby Lowe, is “like pulling the string
nf a shower-bath.
T he new Downer (S.A.) Ministry s ‘ gag
■U be either the property tax, or the National
•‘Ass.” wealth tax.
Kinian Melville says that a N.S.W.
r,i|,our-inember might ere this have had a port-
At what price ?
Ti ie most unfortunate thing about Aus-
jian politicians is that all the honest members
of Parliament are fools.
The next S. A. Ministry will be Holder
i Kingston coalesced, after the elections in
April, with a bigger democratic support.
The English Congregational Ghurcli Union
s . W ith expressions of increased interest in
the labour cause.” It follows- it never leads.
c a National “Ass,” worked hard to
piec r the Holder Ministry,’ Their bile was
chiefly directed against the democratic Cockburn.
° Sir John Downer has been Premier of
q a before, in 1885. His Ministry then was like
his present—a one-man crowd, led by an autocrat.
The total indebtedness of N.S.W. to July
90th 1892, is £53,197,633, carrying £2 ,127,781
interest annually, or an average rate of 3.99 per
06 Since the establishment of the Co-operative
Stores at Broken Hill the cost of living to work-
men has fallen enormously—perhaps 40 per cent.
Verb, sap •
Edden, M.P. for Northumberland, N.S.W.,
isavs he will never give another vote to tax the
necessaries of life, let the consequences be what
they may.
A N.S.W. tax-payer wants to know it the
“customary Assize dinner” given by Supreme
Court Judges is included in the travelling
expenses ?
It is generally understood that publicans
cannot be appointed magistrates, yet there are
several on the lists just published by the Dibbs
(N.S.W.) Government.
Neild, M.L.A., lias moved for a return of
all the dead* men appointed J.’sP. by the Dibbs
Government. Let us hope they are numerous.
A single dead J.P. is worth a dozen live ones.
The Victorian Upper House lording it
and threatening more deadlocks in 1892, over one
hundred years after France declared for the in-
divisibility of the people’s Assembly. And they
say the world moves.
Holder and Gordon are both paid con-
tributors of the S. A. Register, and yet they and
their followers were so ignorant of the frailties of
human nature as to expect the Advertiser to
smile upon their Ministry.
The average life of S.A. Ministries grows
less every year. Sir John Downer’s is the 41st
iu 35 years! The longest-lived Ministry was
Bray’s, which lasted from June, 1881, to April,
1884—less than three years.
Speaker Bent shows disgustingly bad form.
They thought he would have been civilised, but
he keeps inviting Anti-Daviesites to tread on the
tail of his gold-plastered robes. Why must Elisha
necessarily champion Elijah?
John Forrest, now as in the Crown colony
days, seems'to have a lease of well-paid office in
West Australia. It would need a big bag to
carry all the gold he has made out of the State.
He is not a deciduous Forrest.
The taxpayers of Avoca (Vic.) burnt ex-
M.P, Bowman’s effigy the other night, “in the
presence of 300 ladies and gentlemen,” says the
Age. But it was “a ruffianly crowd ” that burnt
Purves’ dummy on the Yarra bank.
In the thirties, under'the Imperial system,
with little or no work to do, and plenty of
“assigned” help to do it, the N.S.W. Colonial
Secretary got =£2ooo a year, and a free house.
The office to-day carries the .£2OOO only.
The Australian Star, started as q. professed
workers’ Sydney organ, says of the’N.S.W.
Labour-party outside Parliament that “no
sensible man attaches any more importance to
their opinions than he would to the antics of
anthropoid apes.” ' ■ '
Lieut. M‘Donald, of the Canadian Militia,
is cashiered, for advocating union with the LbS.
They had better try this test on the Australian
Militia, and knock out the Republicans, for it is
really a shame to hear the outrageous sentiments
current in the ranks.
As showing Adelaide’s financial elasticity,
it may be stated that the large influx of Melbourne
unemployed has not seriously affected the labour
market. This is due mainly to the cheapness of
land, brought about by the fear of heavy taxation
on unimproved values.
In a small township in Western N.S W.,
according to Neild, ALL.A., four new justices
have just been appointed. They are (1) the
publican, (2) the poundkeeper, (3) a stranger who
recently drifted into the locality, and (4) a man
who died 14 months ago.
Asks a correspondent,: Will not the pro-,
posed abolition, in N.S.W., of the <£4o deposit for
parliamentary candidates act detrimentally to the
election of genuine labour representatives in the
event of others than those chosen by workers put-
ting up and splitting the labour-vote ?
A letter appears in a Sydney daily en-
quiring “Why should not men wear petticoats?”
The Bulletin has been reading Jawbone Neild’s
Vice Suppression Bill, and recommends that, a
Royal Commission be appointed to examine Neild
and see whether he doesn’t wear petticoats.
Sydney Evening News has fixed up its
libel-action with Parkes by an apology which
“ they intend to be, and certainly hope will be a
complete vindication of his unblemished public
career.” Adjectival and adverbial jam ! Now,
Alfred, how can you “ vindicate ” a public career
which is “ unblemished ?” Sarcasm ?
John Moule, M.P., the “ stormy petrel”
of S.A. politics, is now whipping for Downer.
Moule has turned out more Ministries than any
other six politicians. He whipped for Holder,
r used a shindy when he didn’t get office, and now
\ ips for the other side. The Bulletin doubts
doule ever voted for a Government.
Sir Henry Parkes desires to capture the
Radical vote by means of certain semi-,Socialistic
proposals for the utilisation of idle land arid idle
men by means of State expenditure, and the
Government working of mines. He has appar-
ently been down at Leigh House listening to
the Socialistic discourses of George Black.
It is stated that when Gov. Glasgow
(M.L.) received the despatch which directed him
to cave in upon the nomination of 12 democrats to
the Upper House, he went out into the back-yard
and chopped nearly a ton of firewood to relieve his
feelings before he could trust himself to send for
Premier Ballance and explain the situation.
The Maoriland Land Bill (passed the
Lower House) permits perpetual leaseholds of 640
acres on all unalienated land at a rental of 5 per
cent, on the capital value. Straight-out purchase
is not forbidden, but it is discouraged, and land
cannot be bought to hold for a rise. It is the
nearest approach to land nationalisation known.
The one dramatic scene in the recent S.A-
no confidence debate was when Attorney-General
Stock was speaking. Stock was lashing round,
attacking friends and foes, and losing votes, when
Chief Secretary Cockburn handed him a note,
enjoining moderation. Stock tore it to
■ pieces and threw the fragments into the passage.
The looks on the faces of his colleagues will long
be remembered.
NOT THAT SORT OF BLACKFELLOW.
COOKTOWN RESIDENT (to aboriginal): “ You want him work?”
NIGGER: “ What sort him work?”
COOKTOWN RESIDENT: “Chop him wood.”
NIGGER: “Yowgoo! What sort plurry fool you tink it mine sit down, eh? Baal [?]
chop-him-wood blackfellow; mine yacker poliss him boots longa public-house.”
It is a coincidence that the betitled Dibbs
and the similarly extinguished Abbott were
colleagues in Ministerial office eight years ago,
while Attorney-General Barton was then Speaker.
In those days, too, Chaffey Baker and Kingston—
the very antitheses of political opinion in S.A.
to-day—sat smugly contented in the same Govern-
ment. . ,
The Age is rather late with its howl
against the tin-pot Auxiliary Squadron. Yet Syme
is getting on. Only a few months back this versatile
organ was anathematising Queensland.for refusing
to contribute to the support of the gimcrack
fleet, and now it deplores the fact of Victoria
having to cash up for the ", toy sailorings” of Im-
perial officers.
Kingston, Q.C., made a brilliant speech
in the S.A. Assembly recently, in condemnation
of the Northern Territory jurymen who acquitted
the alleged murderers of the Chinese, Mai IN mi.
Its effect was spoilt, however, by the reflection
that if a fee had been attached, he would have
been equally florid in an appeal to the jury to
acquit the prisoners.
It is probable that only about 60 per cent,
of the present S.A. Assembly will be re-elected
next year. At the elections, so far as can be at
present judged, there will be in nearly every case
a distinct issue : National Defence League alias
Ultra Toryism, versus all the shades of Democracy.
In the city and suburbs the labour-party, if solid,
should be all conquering.
“Things are bound to stagnate when you
do nothing but tax,” observed ex-Premier Gillies
—the man who left the big Victorian deficiency—
the other day ; “ what is wanted is to give people
hope.” And then there was a general burst of
applause from all the unhanged land and bank
boomers, who, for five years past, have been
giving the people hope that they will get their
deposits back, and that their shares will turn out
all right. The Victorians feel inclined to lynch
the man who “gives them hope ” now-a-days.
When a member attacked the Victorian
Government for its evident disinclination to
prosecute in the Mercantile Bank affair, and
accused Ministers of a desire to baulk justice—
“ Couldn’t you put it more nicely?” hastily and
anxiously asked Speaker Bent. The devil is in
this painful desire to put it nicely. Who ever
wants to “ put it nicely ” in'the case of Bill Sykes.
In the present S.A. House of Assembly of
54 members there are four who have been Premier,
three who have been Treasurer, nine who have
been Commissioner of Public Works, seven who
have been Commissioner of Crown Lands, five
who have been Minister of Education, five who
have been Attorney-General, two who have been
Chief Secretary, and two who have been Speaker.
The Southern press constantly gives pro-
minence to rumours about English capitalists
being ready to lease or buy the Victorian rail-
ways, and'N.S.W, Works Minister Lyne, lately
marmaladed by London Times on his declaration
that people in Australia tely too much on the
State (this should really mean a Sir Williamship
in the long run) would evidently, judging from his
speech, like to hand over the N.S.W. State lines
to a syndicate.
Molouqy, M.L.A. (Victoria), wants it
enacted that when any M.P. accepts a title his
seat should thereby become vacant, and he should
go to his constituents for re-election. In our
mind’s eye we can see G. Republican Dibbs in his
new English clothes trying to explain to the
Murrumbidgee electors, while his brand was still
hot, the reasons for his apostady, and succeeding
about as well as a dog that tries to get out of a
half-filled tank.
Apropos of the plural-vote which is, we
trust, about to be’ extinguished in N.S.W., it is
instructive to notice in a British-named country
electoral-roll the numerous names of Sydney
residents all attached to one particular clique. It
now transpires that a valuable block of township
land in the same electorate, and nominally “cut
up ” into “ qualification ” allotments, has turned
out a very handsome investment for the ambitious
speculator whose “ money-bag manipulation ” was
politically a failure.
Hitherto, when a N.S. Wales member of
Assembly wished to object to a motion being
taken as formal he kept his seat and ejaculated :
“I object”—or rather, he only yapped out
“’ject!” which was much shorter, and could be
said by any one who was sufficiently sober to say
“ hie!” Now, the Speaker rules that any member
who wishes to object must stand up and say so.
This, The Bulletin presumes, will often form an
insuperable bar to the blocking tactics of more
than one non-prohibitionist legislator.
The question asked by Neild, M.P., in
N.S.W. Assembly as to how many usurers had
lately been appointed Js.P., recalls the many dis-
graceful appointments of money-lenders —Waxman
and sich —to the Victorian Bench in the Berry
reign, concerning which Marcus Clarke once
wrote:—“And whenever a poor devil of a civil
servant disputes a pawnbroker’s account for a
pledged waistcoat, the Bench looks like Pelican
Island in the breeding season by reason of the
multitude of beaks hanging over the railings.”
Somebody writes to Joe Symes’ Libe-
rator, complaining that Yankee civilisation
doesn’t amount to much after all, seeing that
quite recently it was found needful to pass a law,
enacting that when a man can’t pay his fare, he
shall not be booted off the train while it is going
at full speed. Until this act was passed, it is
alleged, the conductor simply took the impecuni-
ous passenger to the rear of the train, and then
his heels Hew up in the air for a moment, and he
was left on his back in the wilderness, and, on
account of this, Symes’ correspondent thinks that
Australia shouldn’t take any share in the Chicago
exhibition.
Resolution passed by the Queenton (Q.)
Associated Workers’ Union at a meeting called to
protest against the wholesale removal of voters
names from the electoral-roll; —
That while recognising that the English language has
hitherto been found adequate for all civilised purposes,
we now regret its inability to express the depth and
range of our contempt and abhorrence of the Knighted
Pariahs and their troop of renegades and dipsomaniacs
who are attempting to deprive the workers of Queens-
land of their rights as citizens at the forthcoming general
election.
The Argus waxed enthusiastic over the
Freemasonie new union at Broken Hill, which was
to bring about a millennium for labour and capital,
and was “to be based on principles that would
commend themselves to all right-thinking men,
and induce “a settlement of the strike favourable
alike to employers and employes.” In short, it
was going to mix oil and water, and bring peace
in our time, O Lord. A labour-union blessed of
the Argus would strike for longer hours, and the
privilege of giving illuminated addresses to the
directors three times a week.
British election item
The Primrose League dames frequently, it is alleged,
employed bribery and intimidation to further their
wishes, and were on several occasions guilty of conduct
which would disgrace a fish-wife. At the North (Jambs
election the ladies were permitted, during the time
occupied in counting the votes, to assemble in the
magistrates’ room and there wait for the result. When It
became known that Mr. Brand, the Liberal candidate,
had succeeded, a Primrose dame, the daughter of an
eminent Tory in the constituency, stepped forward and
spat in the face of Mrs. Brand, the popular and accom-
plished wife of the successful candidate.
The American Consul at Quebec has
strengthened the Hinglish hold on Canada by
hurting the feelings of the French population.
While they were mobbing the indiscreet Consul, a
certain Lieutenant M'Donald, at Toronto, was
advocating a Yankee annexation of the country.
He had forgotten, as all talkers on the annexation
question seem to forget, that Canada is half
French, and that the French half would rather
hang on to the old order of things than be absorbed
by strangers for the second time. It is the 1 un-
English ” of Canada that keeps it so painfully
“loyal”—Louis Riel’s insurrection notwithstand-
ing-
The English baker works from 60 to 100
hours weekly. Hardly so much as the Sydney
’busman or harbour-steamer hand.
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Advt. from Pleasant Creek (Vic.) News :
MR. GEORGE HUMPHREYS,
Licensed High Priest of Venus Cloaoena of the Borough
of Stawell,
Is prepared to execute orders on the shortest notice, at
the same moderate rates as heretofore. Carts available
five nights a week. None but pious and honest men em-
ployed.
Dear Bulletin, —Be Charlie Collins,
M.L.A., of the Namoi, and his alleged promise
to present his N.S.W. parliamentary stipend to
the local ’ hospitals. It is within my certain
knowledge that he has devoted twice .£3OO a year
for many years to charitable objects, few, beside
the recipients, being aware of this.— Alpha Beta,
Moree, 24th. Sept.
Dear Bulletin, —lf, whenever a strike
occurs, the workers adopt a rule that no rent be
paid from the day tools are laid down till the
time of resuming work, it will be a powerful
assistance to present methods. The proprietors
of workmen’s houses are usually men retired from
active occupation. Most of their time is spent
knocking about the business parts of the cities,
encouraging employers to bring down wages and
put down strikers. Their Mondays are usually
spent collecting rents, and sympathising with
their tenants because of the low wages and un-
certain employment. Let the unions make a
“no-rent” rule as part of their strike policy, and
a portion of the capitalists will at once be on the
side of the workers. It may be objected that the
landlords would immediately distrain, but a very
simple, and perfectly legal, arrangement can be
made to prevent this. After the first strike under
“ no-rent ” rules, proprietors of workmen’s houses
will move heaven and earth to prevent strikes,
—J.M.
Dr. Fletcher’s Pills are a sure cure for
biliousness and liver complaints, haepatitis, head-
ache, indigestion, heartburn, kidney ailments, and
females’ sick headaches. So, if you want a really
good family pill, try Dr. Fletcher’s Pills, the
silent and painless motor that purifies the human
system of all accumulations of morbid, foreign,
and poisonous secretions. They are as mild as a
pet lamb, as harmless as honey, as searching as a
small toothcomb, and as sure as a spring gun.
They don’t go fooling around, but attend strictly
to business, and never labour in vain. Dr.
Fletcher’s Pills are prepared on scientific
principles. They contain no aloes, calomel, or
gamboge, or any drastic purgative, like most pills
now sold to a confiding public, but are made of
pure vegetable ingredients, which act by gently
stimulating the liver and softening the impacted
feces, thereby giving relief and comfort unattended
by the annoyance and pain of griping and purging,
and are confidently recommended to all persons of
a sluggish or bilious temperament. They are sold
everywhere, or post free, thirteen stamps, from
F. M. CLEMENTS, Newtown, New South
Wales,
Asa toilet article, Ayer’s Hair Vigor stands
unrivalled. It cleanses the scalp and removes
dandruff, cures itching humor, restores the original
colour to faded and gray hair, and promotes its
growth.


|>J <o\N apa
Or . ijohJ Jatijfrs Torpj/ fI.L A Ja//or
J/s pi/utogra:^ .
%
■MjR 0) CO ®H
To too/v9Ahl
" NoiV njy deaft, n/y tinji ij v/ery preciouj to-day ; ly juT"
ijiijates 1 sj/all lef Iff rat looje !
Jjdfmpyeyt of depufatioy iyptahp&ju —,
Portrait of*Malcolm'
As described by Ijis
late colleaoaes
7 f
njER ON f
KA F/MANTIaI - Scepe, CL London fa&nhrokcrs %ob.
Mi\ ThoionONTrf- • JtyuK'
ITHUH - Yes Fa pen"
tfr T - ?(Lch upa cUuy tijirtagdatiyree
ttf\l\\{jf] pocqdflj. fljoj Qitqmnjj to float
a loay af four per Ifagt it j foul
tyoulf) hlaleftj (ufjorft Ifjeirohli/
people atjd I VuyFyouU qo
aijd be Soy of fifeii*
people fora t/fle”
U/r' Fftirfw.o/-
//S j /^£7^Cj^a^a^Jbß^^^
First LoROoFTHf BACK Stairj jour tlafesty, Ijerra re Ifirfy
j-ton/ Qcyflemei; jottijt of TASrjht*-
H ff? Hajbty fron; GENTLEMEN j Wl^uM
ftrj/ iJell Ue Ijeep fl/ese places /or Lordj aijcL ,
K, C. M c.! • ' 7
THINGS IN GENERAL.


i3>m J’<©^ W
O /£) 1? 1. ■ Sj'b
Con s it/if on/A £ /-? <Sr/C ts&/' C,
Co/t/rn fr, d- '/jG/'S *>'t S>(Ss^oe. cfa fa
fa o /« ci?/ s
f Cfi2- An * fa drtcm^./)/a/ /ai s/z/i'/zo/l
/ fe) / //
_2s<s<a onnctA '<
<£>
ddJ/r'Ccfa''
? ofao/j/~ /.? c/jie f/s>
AA&// yoos> r>
/)&,. A 6O s c
a//
I' -
cJ
I /)sne. <S>/j/e/s yoT/ -"■ —<^.
' C a'n/~ pass +Aq7 l SAfoogA
Aecaose on C)V/'//{e
AAe cA&rz&KiAa*, c y&
-S </T7^e/ , s Ac* csss~i jgj Aoesi
Qf^ ;/ey *«
CA'•osy e/g ''
o nt o^ec
e)
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
TS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
A to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.,
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note —These allotments are in selected positions
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
309 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Omen:
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, nude to measure on
shortest notice, -CH 15s. I’.itAHAM and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney
J. Lichtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., has taken over the above old
established first-class hotel. Special rates for commercia
travellers and families.
Use Baxho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe's Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
Demand increasing daily—C NUN Darlings.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemaue and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Use Batho s Baking Powder.
Society
The innocent cause of a x-ecent fatal gun-
accident has become insane. And several well-
known Sydney citizens, chiefly bachelors, who
have of late been missed from their usual haunts,
have, sad to relate, gone to Callan Park Asylum.
# 9 *
One of Matthew Davies’ fellow-passengers
on the San Francisco mail-boat tells this story ;
The boat had entered Sydney Harbour, and
inside the Heads it was met by a steamer loaded
down with Premier Dibbs’ vociferous friends.
They boarded her with a rush and a howl, and for
a few minutes there was a noise on deck as if an
infuriated mob was starting a revolution. Just
then the man who tells this story remembered that
he wanted to see Davies about something before
he went ashore, and, not finding that potentate on
deck, he went below and knocked at his state-
room door. There was no answer. He knocked
again, and a hollow groan from within was the only
response. Then it suddenly occurred to him that
perhaps Sir Matthew had hanged himself, and he
burst in without further ceremony. The great
land-boomer was there, fully dressed and with his
shiny belltopper on. He was huddled up in a
seat at the furthest corner, as if he was trying to
back away from something; his large countenance
was of a pale-yellow colour, and his eyes were
turned up, and altogether he looked boneless,
crushed, and utterly wretched. But when he
heard that the row overhead was only the Dibbs
reception, he promptly sat up and - began to smile
once more. It is presumed that he had been
oppi'essed with the idea that the ship was rushed
by the Mercantile Bank shareholders, and that
the}’ - had come to have a friendly talk with him,
and he was lying low in his cabin simply because
he couldn’t get down into the lower hold m-
ceal himself among the bilge-water.
# # #
They lived in the S.A. backwoods, and,
anxious to be wedded in the orthodox way, drove
to the nearest parson, a young Wesleyan “on
probation.” He went through the form, pocketed
the fee, and flung in a priestly blessing free. Some
years afterwards the lady visited Adelaide and
entered a draper’s shop. “ How are you, Mrs.
?” said the spruce young man behind the
counter. “ You have the advantage of me,”
answered the station-manager’s wife haughtily.
“Oh! don’t you remember, I’m Mr. , I
married you!” Horrified, the lady, an Anglican,
sought hurried explanation. The budding Chry-
sostom, having failed in his examinatiox;s, had
been sent back to lay life and his original calling.
Said the tear-drowned lady to the curate to whom
she unbosomed her woeful story; “I really feel
so bad that I want you to marry us in earnest.”
# * #
Apparently the greatest joy of the depart-
ment presided over by Todd, C.M.G., the Post-
master-General, is to maim, disfigure, or chop
down the beautiful trees which have been planted
in Adelaide streets and in many of the chief
country towns, in order to make way for un-
sightly telegraph-posts and telephone cables. In
many instances it looks as if the thoroughfares
with the handsomest avenues had been wantonly
chosen for spoliation. At Mount Barker, a few
years ago, a long stretch of telegraph-wire was
bodily moved across the road to escape the front
of a rich man’s domain, along which no trees were
planted, although the operation necessitated great
branches being lopped off handsome pines planted
by cottagers on the other side of the road. The
line stands till this day, straight for miles along
one side of the road, till it reaches millionaire
Barr Smith’s property, then diagonally over the
way,, until it is past his borders, and back to the
same side of the road again at another awkward
angle. The writer happens to know that the posts
were moved without any reference to the then
political head of the department (Dr. Cockburn).
9 9 9
A certain Australian University Professor
lately went ’Ome and brought back with him a
stained-glass window for “the school” that he
had got built all for himself. It contains the
coats-of-arms of some of the big medical wigs
that the faculty delight to honour; and blazoned
prominently among those of the immortals are
the “ royal arms ” of—the Professor himself.
• * #
Another Professor has got his portrait-
large as life—in oils, hanging up in his “ school.”
The “ men ” maliciously say that it was painted
for his wife, but she’d none of it—he wasn’t hand-
some enough. So the Prof, got the painter to add
a couple of stories to his lofty brow and presented
it to “ the school.”
* * •
Pastor Grubb, who set the Austx-alee
women in hysterics, is in England telling (as per
newspapers) dreadfully steep yarns about the
miracles which befell him in Australia, and which
he didn’t mention when he was here. On one
occasion he and his party were stone-broke 200
miles from Melbourne,"consequently they held a
prayer-meeting, and within 24 hours .£145 arrived
mysteriously, like the blessed rain from heaven,
and all was well. Another time they converted a
wild and reckless young man, and he desired to go
forth and preach, but couldn’t get away because
he owed <£3oo to a bookmaker. Therefore, they
prayed again, and next day a cheque for <£so came
from an unknown donor, and a little later another
for <£2so from another unknown donor, and the
brand that had been rushing down a steep place
to the Melbourne Cup was plucked from the
burning. And how the two donors were so com-
pletely unknown when their names were staring
Grubb in the face at the foot of these two cheques
lie doesn’t explain. If he will throw a little light
on this point he can have our anonymous pro-
missory note at three months.
« * w
A strange story is current in Sydney about
a particularly good man who used to hold certain
shares in a bogus bank, which shares wex - e trans-
ferred shortly before the smash to a woman with
gold-washed hair, some property, and no character
worth speaking about, whereby the gold-washed
lady is now ruined (financially, you know), and is
telling dreadful anecdotes about how the good
man gave her the shares as a mark of affection,
and dissipated their value in ungodly roystering
at her house. Which apparently means that the
good man killed two gold-washed females with
one stone, inasmuch as he got rid of a crushing
liability, and had a large quantity of riot for
nothing. But he will have to pay—else the gold-
washed woman will file her schedule and tell the
whole story to the reporters.
## . *
Expressive sentences from a late lecture
by Melbourne’s particular musical crank, Prof.
Marshall Hall
Later phases in the symphony seemed to indicate that,
although a man might have fine feelings, he could not
always succeed in inculcating them in others. Hence
despondency was expressed in triplets.
Evidently the professor is a family man himself.
* 9 *
Vei’dict delivered at the inquest on the
body of Sir Thomas Campbell (W.A.): —“We
AT OUR BOARDING-HOUSE.
Bridget : “Will oo have some banes, sorr?”
HIGH-TONED BOABDER : “Are they French beans?”
BRIDGET: “No, sorr; Chinase.”
find that deceased died from an overdose
chlorodyne, taken to induce sleep, but well-know-
ing that it would kill him.”
# * *
Cabled that not, less than 30 English
gentlemen have applied for the Tasmanian
Governorship to which, owing to the island’s
retrenchment policy, a smaller salary will in
future be attaclxed. You could find, in England,
at least 5000 swells who would undertake to
“govern ” Tasmania, and give ’em raspberry-jam
sandwiches at receptions, for .£4O a week.
* 9 *
The coming Melbourne sensation is Butters
v. Wangaratta Chronicle, libel. J.S.B.’s
grievance is a terrific slater from this paper,
fetching up the mediaeval occurrence of Butters’
expulsion from Parliament and Bowman’s censure,
and declaring that the celebrated club-ship Mount
Macedon, in Hobson’s Bay, has been an arena of
—er —coffee-palace scenes.
* # #
He could not do much more for him ! A
lately-deceased N.S.W. clergyman, noted for his
medical knowledge and surgical skill, at a coroner’s
inquest held the post-mortem (under the super-
vision of the doctor) on the body of a young man
whom he had christened, and recently married,
and over whom he subsequently read the burial-
service.
• * *
Referring to that pretty quarrel between
Primate Smith and his Bondi (Sydney) congrega-
tion —the latter en masse repudiating their ecclesi-
astic’s nomination to the vacant incumbency—a
contemporary enquires : “ What will the nominee
do without an organist, a verger, church-wardens,
and a congregation? ” Apropos, before the Dis-
establishment of the Church in Ireland, the
writer knew one incumbent who was in the same
delightful position, albeit with the all-important
exception, that he drew <£soo per annum from the
pockets of the R.G tithe-payers. It is hardly to
be expected, from a “ bread and butter ” point of
view, that the clergyman so indignantly “ sat
upon” by his Bondi people will preach to a
beggarly array of empty benches xmless his good
Pastor provides the coin.
* # *
The case of a man, lately seixtexxced
at Sydney to 18 months’ gaol for embezzle-
ment, reads like a scrap of literature from the
dark ages—a thing painfully engrossed on parch-
ment by a monk away back in the 14th century: —
The particular class of goods with which he was en-
trusted was statuettes of the Blessed Virgin. He sold
goods in Sydney, and afterwards went to Brisbane, where
he was arrested in August of the present year and brought
to Sydney. Mr. M'Gtiire, a member of the Oceanic Pub-
lishing Company, said the total deficiency in accused’s
accounts, according to Ids own statements, was £157 l_fis.
6d. Mrs. Brick, a customer who had bought a shrine
from the accused for 305., deposed to paying for it ;
Catherine Seage deposed to purchasing a shrine and pay-
ing 10s. on account, and Eliza Flannery also deposed to
paying 10s on account of ttie purchase of a shrine on its
delivery, and 20s. afterwards. It was stated that the
accused had not accounted for these sums. The members
of the prosecuting firm stated that the accused was a
particularly good salesman, but was given to drink.
Hennelly !—M'Guire !— Eliza Flannery !— drink !
—the shrine (whatever a shrine may be) that was
sold on time-payment ! What a mixture !If
someone had only testified that the prisoner was
deranged owing to sunstr dee received while weep-
ing at the Holy Sepulchre, the story would have
been complete.
* * *
A man has just shot himself with a gun
loaded with celery-seed. Gone wore his salad
davs.
• # •
A casual glance at the figure of Sir James
Macßitin gives nq idea of his dancing abilities.
Yet the solemn old gentleman is one of the lightest
toe-trippers in Melbourne, and the only political
partner who doesn’t make “the Countess” very
cross indeed.
• * •
The electors of Toorak (Melb.) are com-
plaining against “Punch” M'Kinley that,
amongst other sins of omission, he doesn’t take
the financial scandal bull by the horns. And this
from the people who used to return Matthew
Davies without opposition ! Probably they were
taken in at the sale of their fallen idol’s furniture
and effects.
* * *
The latest Australian scandal concerns a
young “society ” professional man and his alleged
bride -a beauteous actress —who were, late the
other night, promiscuously bundled out of their
lodgings in a leading hotel, because they had for-
gotten to procure a marriage-certificate.
w * *
Legal business in Sydney is at a low ebb ;
the b’g firms are shortening hands, and the small
fry are closing up altogether. Four unemployed
attorneys—one of them not long since had a good
city practice—are on the books of the Labour
Bureau. The paucity of legal work is attributed
to the lack of land-dealing, which is responsible
for about nine-tenths of a lawyer’s business.
# # *
Mr. Clara Parker is suing his wife fox-
divorce, but it is rumoured the case will be settled
out of court.
# # #
The Echo farm (Sydney) home for male
inebriates, advertises for destitute dipsomaniacs
whom it receives free of charge. The average
dead-beat human failure is sad enough even in
the glamour of his aimless, unrestricted vagabond-
age, which glamour is absent from the regulated
regimen of the kindliest hospital ever instituted.
But no wonder the chronic drunk gives a lot of
sea-way to an institution where the cold, hard
frostbite of charity is administered in an atmo-
sphere of prayer. Prayer, we read, is greatly
relied on at Echo farm to aid the victim of
alcoholism. Prayer is a poor nerve-stimulant,
whereas three inches of rum make a whole litany.
The alcoholic habit is a subject for the doctor, not
for the parson ; it is a subject for the hospital, not
for the church. When is Government going to end
the farce of fining the dipsomaniac five shillings
and turning him loose instanter to re-saturate
himself?
* # #
Prior to ’67, the Victorian police were not
allowed to wear any hair on their faces except
“side-boards.” A constable at Russell-st. bar-
racks who made love to a girl and jilted her, and
who was made defendant in a breach-bf-promise
case, told her (according to her evidence in the
box) that “he had a lovely board, but the
authorities (bad luck to them !) wouldn’t let him
wear it, and he’d be hanged if he’d wear mutton
chops.” In ’O7, Captain Standish issued an order
allowing the men to wear as much hair as they
pleased, and in whatever fashion they liked. It
then transpired that the swoet-tongued, but faith-
less O’Hooligan had never had a hair on his face
in his life.
« * *
Some years ago a big trial took place down
South, when an eminent barrister was retained
early by one side so that the other side shouldn’t
get him. He received a fee of a thousand guineas,
but never showed up at the trial after the opening.
Later on he put in an appearance, made a poor
mouth to the attorneys, and got four hundred
guineas more, on the promise that he would
“reply on the whole case.” He was never seen
again till the verdict was given. You see, barris-
ters can’t sue for their fees, and, what is still more
important, they can’t be made to disgorge fees
once paid.
* * #
It’s .just this’ way. You might las well
indict the Pope, at Burrowa, before a ]ury of
Ryans as present one member of a secret society
before a jury containing one or more members of
that secret society. Secret societies are aneurisms
of the public aorta.
• • *
A Sydney artist was, the other day,
relating an experience of his. A woman, who
had been married three times, came to him with
two photographs : “I want you,” said she, “to
paint the portraits of my two dead husbands.”
She arranged a price, and he finished the work.
“Why not,” suggested he, “have the portrait
of your present husband done ? ” “Oh,” replied
she, “’c ain’t no good I ” That is always the way.
It is only the dead husbands—and the future
husbands—that are any good to a woman.
* # •
It was the same artist to whom a rather
adipose woman who had lost her nose and had
just got an artificial gold one constructed, came to
have it painted a complexion-match. He executed
the somewhat delicate commission—artists in
Australia can’t pick and choose their work, but
must be all-round practitioners. Some days later
she returned, greatly flushed, the nose looking
quite pale against its strawberry-coloured back-
ground. “This will never do,” she shrieked.
Though his patroness was cool when he painted
the nose, he had, in view of contingencies, streaked
it lightly and artfully with blue veins, but it was
now plain he had made insufficient allowance forthe
mannerin which excitementintensified herfloridity.
“ You must paint it more,” she said—“ I get
terrible red when I drink a glass of beer.” So he
painted it terrible red accordingly. Next time,
however, the cause was admittedly brandy. When
next time she visited him she said she had been
giving gin a trial, and that her beak was out of
match again. The artist finally gave up the job,
suggesting in his anger that she should get ten
thousand noses made and have one painted to
correspond with every brand of fire-water in the
market.
* * #
A certain well-advertised Sydney boodler
once showed by look and words that such acts as
cutting a cheese in half and selling one portion at
Bd. and the other half at Is. fid. per pound (as
had been done by a friend who told him all about
it) was most unspeakably repugnant to his honest
nature.
* * *
An Auckland (M.L.) surprise-party was
lately struck by a serious disaster. It was a rather
swell party, and it brought along, beside the pro-
visions, silver spoons and cutlery for a party of
30, and sundry articles of plate. It was observed
that the people on whom the party irrupted didn’t
look happy—that is to say, they looked about as
joyful as a man does when a beam falls on his foot
—but their gloomy aspect was set down to
astonishment and hidden gratification. The
visitors had a good time, as was evidenced by the
jam-marks on the piano and the piece of ham-fat
that somehow got on some pale-blue silk hangings,
but when they packed up to go, a silent, seedy
man came out from a hiding place somewhere,
and laid two dirty hands on the plate. They
asked him what he meant, and he replied that he
was the bailiff, and that his orders were that
nothing was to go out of the house. And he stood
his ground so well that nothing of any value did
go out of the house ; the surprise-party left thirty-
two silver spoons behind it, and forks and other
things to match, and went away disconsolate. It
had even a difficulty to get back the clothes that
it had hung up in the hall, and had to assume a
martial attitude towards the bailiff before it could
recover its hat.
* * •
Among the “ works of art ’’ contributed to
the lottery authorised in aid of the Sydney desti-
tute, are some photographs, generously given by a
politician. The photos, in question depict a group
of personages, including Lord and Lady Jersey—
with the politician right in the foreground “ with
’em all on.”
Which reminds one of a picture that used to
hang (or rather it was screwed to the wall) m a
certain Sydney club, now defunct. It was a
proof-engraving, worth about .£lO, and was
framed in an "offensively gaudy way. At the
bottom of the frame was a gigantic brass-plate
bearing the legend ; “Kindly Thomas ae
Tocqueville Agneau, Esquire.”


A fee of £1 6s. is exacted in N. S. Wales
from every J.P. sworn in.
the teeth and their conservation.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
I- Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and King
Greets. He is the author of that popular treatise on
The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
, T - .Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address-Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sidney Arcade, George and
lv, ng streets. *
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, <£3 3s. Bhaham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
The Ehcalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Ooleinane an I S ms, are unsurpassed.
Use Bathos Baking L’owder.
Boon to the suffering—G NUN Darlings.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only, known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, heating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Etcalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colhmanb and
Sons Special O 1. Sole Manufactory,Cootamuhdra, N.S.'.V
Use Batho s Baking Powder.
At Petersham you can buy G N U N Darlings.
At Glebe Point you can buy 6NUN Darlings
In the train, smoke G N TJ N Darlings.
On the ferry, smoke G N U N Darlings.
Always the same —G NUN Darlings.
When arc Spectacles Itequired ?
When the eyes water or. become so much fatigued by
short exercise as to be obliged to be frequently closed or
relieved by viewing different objects.
When objects cannot be seen without removing them
to an increased distance.
When the letters of a book appear to blend with one
another.
When more light is necessary than was formerly, as
When the candle is placed between the eve and the
book ;
When much difficulty is found in threading a needle ;
When the eyes appear as if they had a mist before
them;
When black specks seem floating in the sight.
When any of the above indications arise, all affectation
should be laid aside, responsible and skilful opticians con-
sulted, and a pair of preservers purchased.
PEOST &
(Practical Spectacle Makers),
402, 474 and OS7 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Ark tub Pboplk.
The inscription on the late Mr. Bond’s
tombstone is as follows “ N. R. 1). Bond, late
Secretary of the Victoria Amateur Turf Club.
r)ied 22nd August, 1892, aged 0C years. Erected
Lv the Club.” This is described as a “ simple ”
inscription, and the term suits' it. The word
‘‘late” soon gets behind the times —for example :
“Anne, late Queen of England,” would read
funnily on the monument of that dead lady. And
n ( r<iin Mr. Bond was merely supported, not
cfcrted, by the V. A.T.C.
* # #
Two already renowned Victorians have
ought and obtained further greatness on the
Consul ticket. Deeming’s heir, Marshall Lyle,
viH henceforth represent the Republic of Columbia
(nothing would induce him to labour for a mon-
arch v) at State functions, and Fitzgerald Moore,
the advance-to-get-a-drink ” speculator, is now
Consul for Chili at the Court of Lord Hopetoun.
Thus do great and gifted men climb the ladder of
Fame.
# * *
A terrific swell was fined at Melbourne the
other day, for travelling first-class on the railways
with a second-class ticket. He was a member of
t l,e “Second-class League,” a band of dudes sworn
to defeat the railway reforms of the Government
by always riding second-class.
# # *
Some of the Melbourne papers gush most
nauseatingly about the patriotism, philanthropy,
and so on of the Chirnsides, which fatted band of
squatters, fired with an ambition to be decidedly
“English you know,” and to be devoutly looked
up to as squires by a humble peasantry, are cutting
up a portion of their vast estates, and letting
them out to small farmers who, according to one
idiotic sheet, are to get the land at their own
price, ‘‘because it is to be let by tender.” Since
under this system the land will pay the Chirnsides
about 100 per cent, better than at present, their
patriotism ” is about on a line with that of
Moses Hopper and i when he starts a city pawn-
sll°P-
The other day, in Sydney, a verdict for
£17 15s. was given against an old man at the suit
of a money-lender, who nearly/four years ago lent
him £4 for which he agreed to pay 25s. per month
interest. The borrower kept his part of the con-
tract until recently, when he fell into arrears and
signed a bill for .£17 15s. Which; witn costs, he
now has to pay—though jflaintiff has already
received much over £50 in return for his loan
of £L
• * *
Another injustice to Ireland. The Marble
Man has had a joyful resurrection. He was pre-
sent at the medical conversazione at the Sydney
University—” introjooced by thim Scotch raffs ” —
on dit as a nasty jar for one or two of the Irish
medicos who originally championed that monstrous
putrefaction.
# * *
Mrs Si Too See was passed through the
Victorian Customs one day last week. This is
not the sort of thing Australians Si Too See.
• * *,
It is mighty queer, when you come to
think of it, that although every one who has the
honour of seeing the swell new baby of rich and
noble parents perceives a prodigious resemblance
in it to its father, and also a strong look of its ma,
it has been found impossible, up to date, ever to
identify the parents of a child left tied to a door-
knocker by their resemblance to the infant. This
is probably because they are “ unnatural ” parents.
Natural children almost always are the progeny
of unnatural parents.
* * *
At Bathurst (N.S.W.) an ex-Civil servant,
who had been sentenced for embezzlement, applied
for a hotel-license. The police opposed because of
the conviction. The magistrate said he hoped
applicant would win back his position in society.
He believed he would conduct the hotel —a large
one—respectably, and granted the license.
*• dfc
Tahlee, the homestead at Port Stephens
where “Bob” White, M.L.C., recently enter-
tained Governor Jersey, was originally the resi-
dence—now much added to—of Admiral Sir
Edward Parry, the Arctic explorer, when
Managing-Commissioner for the Australian Agri-
cultural Company.
# ' # *
Before Judge Simpson, at Sydney, one
day last week. Learned counsel (to female wit-
ness); “How long have you been married?”
“Two years and three months.” “How many
children have you?”• “Two.” “ What are their
ages?” “My baby is nine months old.” “Aye;
and the other ?” “Sixyears.” “Oh, ho!” “Yes,
but she is my husband’s by his first wife.”
#' # »
Inquiries, we hear, were lately made of
the Pope as to the R.C. doctrine on cremation.
The reply was a reference to a decree made seven
or eight years ago, but not generally known, dis-
approving of cremation, on the ground that it is
unlawful to destroy the human body alive or
dead. Surviving friends and executors are for-
bidden to carry out directions of deceased persons
that their bodies shall be burned.
* * *
Dear Bulletin,-—Re your par. about an
Auckland servant girl having been driven mad by
a fortune-teller. There is now a woman travelling
in Maoriland who is credited with having thus
driven many women insane. Her favourite deaths
for them are childbed and hanging for poisoning
husbands. “You will be married and die giving
birth to your first child,” or “ you will be hanged
for poisoning your husband.” The first is quite
enough to drive any woman mad at such a time.
This woman is the sister-in-law of a politician
with a spiritualistic kink who is fool enough to
believe her a psychologist. Fortune-telling of
this sort ought to be met with a little gaol.—
Demo.
* # •
On the official-list of a certain large Aus-
tralian insurance office all employes receiving
£2OO per annum and upwards are dubbed “Mr.;”
those getting less are set down as plain Smith,
Brown, Jones, &c.
The other day we saw a children’s picnic
starting from Circular Quay, Sydney. There were
something like 400 or 500 of them loaded on a
flashy-looking, toy steamer, and they were
jammed together so closely that it would have
been hardly possible to load up with one infant
more. There was no boat on board, and
if there had been one and it (or one of the
life-buoys slung on the side) was wanted suddenly
no one could have got at it without treading
fifty infants underfoot. If a collision took
place, and the gimcrack steamer went down,
then the probabilities were that in the mad con-
fusion there would presently be 300 more little
angels in Paradise. Such a disaster will assuredly
take place some day, and then people will want
to know where the police were when the over-
loaded craft started, and the reply will be that
they were round the corner somewhere watching
a publican who was suspected of breaking the
Act. And, in any ease, they probably had no
power to interfere, for the chances are that the
boat was only loaded up to the limits allowed in
its certificate. Almost every dirty, wheezy,
asthmatic craft on Sydney Harbour has a faded
document stuck up somewhere stating that it is
licensed to carry 463 passengers, or something like
that.
* * *
Shocker for Professor Marshall Hall. On
a brass-plate in a Melbourne suburb is the legend :
“ Music and Palmistry taught.”
* # #
The clergy have a high opinion of each
other. Here is the Bishop of Riverina saying
that he would sooner be tried by laymen, who
knew nothing about theology, than by any
ecclesiastic in the world. Also, a bold parson,
who signs himself “ Incumbent,” falls foul of the
management of the Church of England Centennial
Fund. “It seems incredible,” says the guileless
one, “ that any clergyman would take such a
stipend (.£350), unless necessary and equivalent
duties were performed.”
What it has come
to. People are now
trying, as per advts.
in the Sydney
daily papers, to sell
their grave-lots.
* • *
The Christchurch
(M.L.) Press pub-
lished a lengthy re-
port of an interview
which Governor Glas-
gow “courteously”
granted to “Ou”
Special Correspon-
dent,” whereupon the
noble Earl denied
that he had ever sub-
mitted tobeaddressed
by any plebeian jour-
nalist whatever since
his arrival in the pro-
vince. This was so
decidedly “up
against ” the Press
man that he hastened
to explain. The cour-
teous Glasgow, it
seemed, had kept a
brick wall between
himself and his in-
terviewer, who actu-
ally conversed with
a private secretary,
whilst the private
secretary carried
questions and answers
to and from His Nibs
in an adjoining room.
The exalted medium
had courteously taken
notes of the various
enquiries and referred
them to Glasgow,
“ who duly instructed
him as to the precise
limit of each answer,”
consequently the
Special Correspon-
dent was quoting
the exact words of
a man he didn’t hear
as they filtered
through a third party
in a strictly modified
form. The omitted
portions of this trian-
gular interview can
be courteously im-
agined.
An authentic Australian school answer.
Subject, physiology—“ The organs of the abdo-
men are divided into two sets—(1) the organs of
digestion, (2) the organs of indigestion.” Painful
experience suggests that that boy hit upon a great
and solemn truth. Another kid at the same exam,
stated—“ The chief use of bile is for biliousness.”
He wasn’t far wrong either.
m * *
A good deal of fun was got by the Broken
Hill strikers the other day out of a dispute on
unionism between two local policemen which
ended in their partly stripping and fighting five
hard rounds.
* * •
Dear Bulletin, —The Jawbone Neild-
Cardinal Moran controversy, in which the
skeletons of divers queer old Jesuits and Popes,
who died centuries ago, were unearthed and
paraded, soon fizzled out, and no one’s sorry
either. Five-and-twenty years ago, or even less,
such a controversy would have caused 99 out of
every 100 men in N.S. Wales to besmear them-
selves with sectarian war-paint; but that time has
passed, and why ? Well, simply because Australia
is rapidly, thank heaven, becoming Australian.
The Jawbone-Cardinal controversy created no
more interest amongst us Australians than (excuse
the metaphor) would the battle of two blow-flies
over the carcase of a kangaroo-rat.—Yours, H. J.
M‘Cooey.
* * *
Every Sunday, both at morning and even-
ing service, the congregation of a certain Sydney
suburban church enjoys a screamingly good joke.
Tha preacher’s wife and her two rosy youngsters,
propped one on either side of her, sleep right
through the sermon.
This happened in a Sydney suburban
railway carriage. A passenger who had run for the
train, and was consequently rather hot, would
have opened a window. “Hey!” shouted a
certain C.M.G., “we can’t have the window
down; the wind is too cold and strong.’ If
that’s so, we’ll leave it shut; it won’t do to blow
off your Ooonabarra hat.”
# # *
A Campbelltown (N.S.W.) lady of 83 can
dance a Highland-fling for 45 minutes without a
spell. Such bodily vigour completely outvies all
Gladstone’s performances.
# * »
There were to be some tableaux entitled
Tennysonia, and Mrs. Goldtop was to be a Queen.
She was very hazy as to what she would have to
do, and put out a feeler to Miss _ Bluestock.
“Isn’t it rather anew departure to introduce a
Queen into Tennis ? ” she asked. Miss Bluestock
said it was. “I wonder,” continued Mrs. Gold-
top, “if she ought to carry a racket.” She found
out before the tableaux.
* * *
“ The prevailing epidemic in Melbourne,”
says the Argus, “ appears to be one affecting the
conscience.” The Argus can afford to laugh it
has no conscience.
* # *
Wood’s Point (Vic.) is in the happy con-
dition of being unable to get together a council.
If there are many more prosecutions there’ll be no
public men at all left at large in Victoria
* * *
Melbourne Standard speaks of “the
ancestral estates of the oldest families in Aus-
tralia.”
* * *
Mrs. Abner Taylor, the Chicago mil-
lionaire’s wife who has sent her petticoat round
Congress to be autographed by the senators, ought
to be looked up for inciting to a breach of the
peace. There will be blood spilt over that petti-
coat.
THAT SLOW TRAIN.
PASSENGER : “May I make a suggestion, guard?”
GUARD: “Yes, sir.”
PASSENGER : “Well, I’d take the coweatcher off the engine and put it
on behind, you’ll never catch any cows, and they might eatch
you.”
The religious people of a Maoriland city
held a social and muffin-rush, the other day, to
bid farewell to a valued “brother ” who was about
to depart over the sea. There were many affect-
ing speeches, and the “brother’ 1 left with the
good wishes of everybody, and there was a half-
column of piety and bathos about him in next
day’s paper. He also left his wife and child
behind. They weren’t at the social. He used to
pay them 30s. a week, but his departure for a new
sphere of usefulness leaves the little woman to
make a precarious existence by sewing, or some-
thing of that sort.
# #
Two wandering evangelists, who lately
struck the holy city of Dunedin (M.L.), seem to
be even tougher in their statements than the
average itinerant preacher. The less incredible
of the pair says that he was formerly a street-
Arab in London, and used to sleep in ash-holes,
and make a meagre living by turning somersaults.
Compared to his colleague, however, the parson
aforementioned is small potatoes and few in a
hill. The other saint says that he went to spread
the gospel in Russia, and was seized and sent
to Siberia, where he had to march enormous
distances in the snow, and was kept in chains,
and forced to work in the mines; also he was
shoved into damp, dark dungeons, and flogged
with the knout-in fact, by his own account,
it appears that he was being knouted most
of the time. Further, on one occasion, he
and some other prisoners were ordered to make
a large number of coffins and were then set to help
at killing 52 of the prisoners. As the good pastor
doesn’t say anything to the contrary it would,
seem that he compulsorily went through with the
gory job, too. The reverend gentleman’s docu-
ments were all lost in a fire, so there is no evi-
dence to back him up, and he didn’t show his
knout marks to the congregation, so these evi-
dences of a good man’s sufferings have to be taken
on trust; but he is a success all the same. Still
he would probably be a bigger success if he would
allow his hinder parts to be inspected by a com-
mittee of six unbelievers, or if he would deliver an
address in a pair of bathing pants, “to men only,”
or even if he would get his back photographed. In
fact, the more we think over the matter the more
we feel that his back ought to be photographed.
The Brisbane shop assistants’ nine o’clock
on Saturdays closing movement looks as if it
would succeed.
From Riverine Herald : “It is believed
that accused left Geelong with the intention of
coming to Australia.”
The latest women’s petition for the
release of Mrs. Maybrick dwells upon the fact
that the convicted poisoner of her husband is a
poor lone widow.
The oldest newspaper still existing in
Victoria is the Geelong Advertiser, established
in 1840. The almost equally venerable Portland
Guardian dates back to 1842.
, At Waverley you can buy GN U N Darlings.
Dr. Hirschfeld, the Queensland bacterio-
logist, points out that cutting off a piece of skin
from a true leper causes the wound to become an
incurable sloughing ulcer. However, as the victim
in the case under discussion was only a Kanaka,
and as he hasn’t a vote it doesn’t much matter.
The New York Standard (Single-tax
organ), just before it died, complained that the
Yankee Customs had charged duty on some boa-
constrictors brought along by a snake-charmer.
Truly, the man who wants freetrade in snakes has
got the complaint badly.
Mick Doolan has a selection, and the
station is not far off. One night, Mick stole a
bull-calf out of one of the station paddocks, and
eventually it grew up to be a fine-looking beast.
A few years afterwards a friend of Mick’s asked
him what breed the bull was. “Oh,” said Mick,
“ out of old White's Paddock, by Moonlight.”
A policeman, in a Melbourne suburb,
went home to England lately with his grown-up
son, and was joyfully received by his father, on
Lord Salisbury’s estate. The Australian youth
first put his foot in it by innocently shooting a
partridge or two, after which he committed a
more glaring sin, for a note came to the poor old
grandad, informing him that the young man
stared most impudently at a carriage-full of the
Salisbury ladies, and neglected to touch his hat.
“Oh, for God’s sake, let’s go home!” said the
young Australian.
Seasonable Hints.
SUGGESTED BY THE ADVENT OF SPRING.
Many persons may not be aware that the season
now upon us with all its wealth of youthful
verdure and floral embellishment commonly
known as “beautiful Spring,” has its perils as well
as its delights. Experience reveals the disquiet-
ing fact that the human system is subject to vicissi-
tudes brought about by climatic influences peculiar
to Spring-tide. While Nature is assuming her
inost attractive features, and delighting the senses,
there are opposing influences at work which fre-
quently, in a secret and insidious way, go far to
counteract the joyous sensations resulting from
the renewed beauties of the vernal revival. Too
often the impaired action of some vital organ,
probably the kidneys, produces a vitiated con-
dition of the blood, attended by boils and
abscesses, and many painful symptoms, which
render it impossible to enjoy life. The liver, also,
if not actually congested, becomes sluggish and
inactive, causing a number of other disagreeable
and dangerous complications owing to the incor-
poration of bile with the blood.
Now is the time when active measures should be
taken to remove these troublesome indications.
The most effectual agent hitherto discovered for
this purpose is undoubtedly Warner’s Safe Cure,
which, aided by a judicious use of Warner’s Safe
Pills, has established itself as the most successful,
and, in fact, the only reliable antidote to all ir-
regularities connected with the kidneys and liver,
affections of the urinary organs, and an impure
condition of the blood.
One of the latest instances of its power is given
by Mr. James Thomson, of Ross, Westland,
New Zealand, who writes under date 9th Sep-
tember, 1892:—37 years ago, while working at
Gibraltar Hill, McCullum’s Creek, in the Mary-
borough district of Victoria, I had the misfortune,
while dressing timber for a mining shaft, to cut
my leg with an adze. For this wound I was for
35 years under treatment by various doctors with-
out any good effect. Two years ago, when
troubled with liver complaint, I was advised to
take Warner’s Safe Cure. I obtained relief from
two bottles, and to my very great surprise found
also that the wound in my leg began to heal and
diminish in size, and after the use of 7 bottles of
the medicine and 3 vials of Safe pills, has totally
disappeared, and I continue to be perfectly
healthy. Being (54 years of age, I little expected
ever to be cured, and indeed at one time was in
danger of entirely losing the limb. I believe
Warner’s Safe Cure to be a thoroughly reliable
remedy, and strongly recommend it to persons
suffering from kidney or liver complaints, and
also for purifying the blood.
(Signed) James Thomson, Farmer.


At Manly you can buy GN UN Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Shipping.
J7i NGL A N D VIA AMERICA
li IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRKSS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
"Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
COMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers. Commander. Leave Sydney! bourne'
Boulard .. October 27|October 31
Armand BehiclA. Poydenot (November 27 November 31
Polynesien .. L
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English Interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. 8.~ Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
■Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
GRAND lfo>
MEI.DOOBNB.
iiEiEi
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto. 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. P. BEKER, Manager, The
'Srand Hotel, Melbourne.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
invigorate
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.R.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
fio-ure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
olaremont, Hastings, England.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, October 18, 1892.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govkunmknt Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tocumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
Erection of Police Quarters, Warialda
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Moulamein
Repairs, &c., Police Barracks and Lockup, Gul-
gong
Additions, Police Station, Nimitybelle
Bridge, Khoribakh Creek, road Krambach to
Bullock Wharf
Bridge, No. 1, Hillas Creek, road Gundagai to
Tarcutta, near Mundarlo
Bridge No. 2, Hillas Creek, road Gundagai to
Tarcutta, near Mundarlo
Bridge, Duck Creek, at Murrawombie
Repairs, &c., Court House and Lockup, Braid-
wood
Erection of Station Buildings at Kiama, Railway
Kiama to Nowra
Repairs, Courthouse, Cowra
Erection of Court and Watch House, Katoomba
Bridge, Gil Gil Creek, road Moree to Mungundi
Additions Post and Telegraph Office, Burrowa
Wood-blocking part of Workshop, Garden
Island
New Wharf, and Altering approach at Wauchope,
Hastings River
Erection of Cottage at Potts Hill Reservoir
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lismore to Hang-
ing Rock, at Walsh’s Crossing.
Bridge, Dartbrook Creek, road Scone to Merriwa
Concrete Walls for Bridge, Doughboy Creek,
road Tarrago to Braid wood
Manufacture, &c., of Thirty-seven Coils of Gal-
vanised Crucible Steel Wire Rope
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30.
Bridge, Macquarie River, at Gin Gin, road
Trangie to Collie
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 170,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
SYDNEY CATERING CO.
(LIMITED),
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS
DININfI and LUNCHEON ROOMS,
Under the superintendence of a high-class Chef.
MAGNIFICENT BAR.
(Upstairs.)
With BILLIARD ROOM contiguous, containing
Four of the most modern Tables.
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
LAST SEVEN (7) NIGHTS OF
The LONDON GAIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
in
“JOAN of ARC.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
Q.ARRICK THEATRE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
(The (Soldene (Qomic Opera Company
— IN—
“ o i:\evieve be bhabant.”
SATURDAY NEXT (October 22) SATURDAY NEXT
“La Fille de Madame Angot.”
|W Popular prices. Box Plan now open at Nicholson’s.
OOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Proprietor .. .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
Every Sunday Afternoon
$ lllgh>class and Enjoyable Concert. *
Quadrille Assembly every Wednesday Afternoon.
The Marble Sivimming Baths now Open.
Ladies from 10 till 2 Daily.
I|IHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or sue!)
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
£3T All Raihvay Travelling. “SB
Apply for particulars, cable address —“OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. B.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
rpHEATRICAL COMPANIES.—Visit West Australia—To
LET, St. George’s Hall, the only theatre in Perth,
has been re decorated and improved by new proscenium.
Particulars, A. BEHREND, Australian Buildings, Eliza-
bet h-street. 7th floor. No. 2. •
*
«■ :
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
i hev hard day’s work !
[ Noiv ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
I a Sydney Barmaid
\ To be had only of
Mdm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
ğ
BEAD THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
.machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
I Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS:—Any respectable person in Town or Country
may purchase one or more instruments by paying Is.
deposit and the remainder to be paid off by instalments
at Is. a week. Postage stamps will do for country cus-
tomers. (Agents wanted.) J. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-
street. Cheapest Music Warehouse in Australia. Illus-
trated catalogues and particulars posted FREE.
A GREAT REDUCTION.
Weigel's Journal of Fashion.
ġ
Subscription:
Yearly .. 4/-
Half-yearly .. 2/6
Single Copy .. 6Jd.
Catalogues, containing
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Post Free:
payable
m advance.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPER
PATTERNS of DRESSES,
MANTLES, etc., sold from 3d. to
2s. Sent post free on receipt of
postal note or postage stamps from the principal offices.
Sydney 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway).
Melbourne 99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
Furniture, etc.
For bedsteads, childrens cots;
Spring Mattresses and Bedding.
GO TO
LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
FOR Austrian, American and Cane CHAIRS )
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and Balcony Seats;
for Camp Folding Bedsteads, with Woven Wire
Spring Mattresses.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
FOR CARPETS, LINOLEUMS, FLOOR-
CLOTHS, Rugs, Mats, Blinds, Matting
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Materials, Tapestries,
Plushes, Gimps and Cords, etc.
GO TO
LAWLER’S.
For toilet sets, china, glass-
ware, Dinner and Tea Sets, Cups and
Saucers, Cruets. Cutlery and Plated-ware, Mangles,
Copper Boilers and Stoves.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
FOR HALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing Room Furniture,
Bedroom and Kitchen Furniture,
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
Write for Estimates.
JOHN LAWLER and SONS
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinetmakers,
608 GEORGE STREET. Established 1860.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES Free by
poston application addressed to the Head Office of
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
608 George-street.
Sporting.
-y ICTO R I A RACING CLUB.
CUP WEEK.
DERBY DAY Oct. 29th
CUP DAY Nov. Ist
OAKS DAY Nov. 3rd
STEEPLECHASE DAY Nov. sth
£lOOO added to the MARIBYRNONG PLATE ;
,£lOOO to the DERBY ; and .£lO,OOO to the
CUP.
Total Added Money for the Week, £20,350 and
Trophy.
Accommodation for thousands more than last year. The
conveniences for the comfort of visitors to Flemington
now surpass anything in the world.
Return Tickets at HOLIDAY EXCURSION
FARES issued from 24th October till sth November,
■available for return till 14th November.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
GALA’S
Monster Prise List.
MELBOURNE CUP
At 5 each. (100,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10,000; Second, 2500; Third, 1500; S (d), 2000;
N S (d), 2500 ; 20 at 100, 2000 ; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 20 at 20,
400 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 consolations at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
State amount enclosed, and addressed envelopes with
application—one for receipt and the other for result.
Register. Address: GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-
street, Sydney, N.S.W. For full particulars send for our
printed circulars.
•Ji A T TERS ALL’S
MBX.BOXJR.KTE CtJP.
Run at Flemington, November 1,1892.
50,000 at 10 50,000
MELBOURNE CUP.
Run at Flemington, November 1, 1892.
100,000 at 20 100,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
t3pr Address—" TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY. N.S.W, ,
B.
I I J
E -
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER.
OVER 20 YEARS before the PUBLIC of NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOUTH WALES
ME
OURNE CXJ
20 Each —20,000 20 Each
msr. bom; "
MELBOURNE CUP,
XO Each 25,000 —XO Each
TEST 5000 • SECOND 1500 ; THIRD, 1000 ; S. (divided), 1000 ; N.S. (divided). 1000 ; 20 at 50 each, 100(1: 2’5 at 20
IHbT, 5000 , 10 each) 1000 . 100 at 6 each, 500. 245-extra-245.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of the P.O. receipt till you receive our reply Thanking you
for past patronage and trusting for continuance of your support. Programmes Sent on Application.
Address— “ ADAM BEDE,” Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Sydney.- ,
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs,
TATTERS ALL’S MELBOURNE CUP.
IFtXTISr Eft
100,000
AT 20
100,000
la* 3STOVBMBER, 1002.
BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS, AND TAKE CARE OF CQ QQQ AX 10 50 000
THE P.u. RECEIPT TILL YOU GET OUR REPLY. NSW
Address— “ TATTERSALL” caro of George Adams, Tattkrsall’s Hotel, SYDNEY,
The Melbourne Athenaeum committee are
jubilant. They have found and expelled the thief
who has been stealing papers for so many months.
Clark-Russell, in one of his books, tells us
that the gallant La Hogue, the Dunbar liner so
well-known to old Australians, was, in 1887, a
coal hulk anchored off Funchal.
“ Friends,” said Brother Cuddle, in his
lecture on sacred music, “there is long metre,
common metre, peculiar metre, and metre by
moonlight alone”—after which the comrnytee de-
cided,, on the recent Geelong suburban precedent,
that there should be no evening services.
There has always been a sort of rivalry on
the Argus between James Smith and Professor
Morris in the matter of obituaries of leading
lights of literature. When Tennyson’s illness
was cabled, Smith grabbed from its pigeon-hole
the obituary he wrote some six or seven years
back, fixed it up to date, and rushed it in to
editor Haddon before Morris’ cab reached the
office. Result —three columns to Smith in I riday s
Argus, and much cackling to himself by that
gentleman. But Saturday’s Argus came out
with five columns on “ Tennyson and his Poetry
from the professorial pen.
Editor Bulletin, —Tennyson is dead and
there will he much controversy about the claims
to the Laureateship of the respective poets who
are “in the running.” It is cabled that bwin-
burn© is to be the recipient of the honour, and
perhaps he deserves it. But the writer s humble
opinion is that Buchanan is, for a score of reasons,
the greatest English living poet we know. His
intensity of human feeling, his hatred of shams
and scientific babble, and principally his freedom
from pedantry are among the reasons why he
should be honoured. And, then, his has been a
hard life. When we hear of a writer being
despised by the sycophant clique in Britain, we
may be sure he is good and original. Can anyone
point out to me anything by Lewis Morris, G.
Arnold, A. C. S. or A. Austin, to equal “ To
David in Heaven?” And then there is his
“ Outcast.”— Shako.


Are you Nervous? Take Wolfk’s Schnapps
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
jBl-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Paramo and the Medicos*
What the Press Says.
TYPOGRAPHICAL TESTIMONY.
THE EDITORS FOR ONCE AGREE.
(New Zealand Times, May 14, 1892.)
The British Medical Journal is very angry
with Lord Onslow. The particular cause of the
Journal’s wrath is that our late Governor has
absolutely dared to testify to the value of remedies
whose composition is not detailed in the British
Pharmacopoeia. The wrath is expressed as
follows: —“We see with regret Lord Onslow
shamelessly puffing quack secret remedies by an
advertised letter — as scandalous an abuse of
political position and as discreditable a folly as
has been for a long time brought under notice.”
Poor Lord Onslow ! The dyspeptic diatribe
above quoted owes its existence, no doubt, to the
fact that Lord Onslow, having found virtue in
some of the Maori herbal remedies prepared by
Mother Aubert, actually had the ctmrage to say
so in print. Why the British Medical Journal
should deem such testimony a high offence, and,
Judging by the strength of the language it uses,
an almost criminal misdemeanour, I totally fail to
see, save that the average medical mind is fanatic-
ally opposed to any medical innovation which
does not proceed from recognised red-taped
sources,
’Twas ever thus with the medicos. Almost
every new advance made in medical science has
been bitterly attacked as “quackery” when it
appeared, every new thinker denounced as a mad-
man or worse, and every formula not hall-marked
by the Lancet and British Medical Journal as
a dangerous innovation. Personally, while not
having the pleasure of a personal acquaintance
with either Mother Aubert or Mr. Kempthorne, I
can sympathise with them and Lord Onslow
in seeing the Maori Remedies denounced as
“quack secret remedies.” Only one of those
same “quack remedies” do I know, and that
Karana to wit, which, as “ a real good thing ” for a
man with a liver, I would cordially recommend to
the editor of the B.M.J. He appears to need it
sadly, for the common and domestic and “ recog-
nised ” podophylin has evidently been of no
service to him, otherwise he would never have
penned so spiteful a paragraph. As, however,
the “Maori Remedies”—“quack and secret”
though they be —are reported to be selling like the
proverbial “hot cakes,” neither Mother Aubert
nor Mr. Kempthorne is likely to worry about the
wrath of the British Medical Journal. As for
Lord Onslow, he is at Home, and can fight his
own battle.—“Sa*"’tator” in the New Zealand
Mail.”
The Autumn and Winter Seasons-
As the days become shorter at this period of the
year, with the lesser appearance of the sun, so the
climate becomes more changeable and much colder.
Now is the time when everybody puts on more
clothes to sustain the warmth of the body, but
how few people escape the prevailing coughs and
colds of the autumn and winter seasons, notwith
standing these precautions.
To all who have suffered from the dire effects of
INFLUENZA, it must be pointed out that they
are much more susceptible to affections of the
throat than when theywere in their former good
health.
This has been emphatically proved, and to such
persons a warning is highly necessary.
Marupa
is the Remedy which should be on hand, and
sufferers will always find benefit from its use. No
proprietary medicine has a larger sale in New
Zealand than this now popu'ar remedy, and of its
success there is no doubt, as the testimonials
received acknowledging this are very numerous.
Marupa
is a vegetable preparation, and cannot hurt the
smallest child, but its value in removing irritation
pi the lungs and bronchial tubes is far and away
m excess of the price charged for it.
Why be in misery when a bottle of this excellent
Combination of herbs will afford joyful relief?
A cold in the head is a very troublesome thing,
out
Marupa
-an cure it. All f offerers from chest complaints
ire advised to GIVE IT A TRIAL ; satisfaction
is bound to result.
, _ Meanee, Sept. 90, 1891.
Messrs. Kempthorne, Prosser, and Co.
.Gentlemen, —Having used Sister Joseph’s medi-
■ lnes for over twelve years, I can honestly say
tuat they cannot be surpassed.
1 have seen a number of hopeless cases brought
rn her and cured. She is the best, kindest, and
noblest of ladies, and never made any charge to rich
nr poor, nor did it matter to what denomination
fou belonged, you had the same kindness shown
you.
My own daughter, 11 years of age, met with an
accident, and although some of the best doctors in
Hawkes Bay despaired of saving her life, Sister
oseph never gave up, but worked hard day and
.J'Rht, and, thank God, saved her life.—Yours I
&0 -. M. YOUNG. 1
Miscellaneous.
Andrew usher is co/s whiskies.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Ushet and
Co.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under:—
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VAT TED GLENLIVET WHISKY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve,"
It LIKE A UUidAIl, Solicitors,
120 WILLIAM-ST., MELB
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER ■ SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
Lancet.
(THE CEL
S SWEET)
to A
A
St John’s Works, London W.C.
m
mm
Vimm
m
40,000 in Use. Record, 179 words per minnto.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 flrst-olsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY: J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizabeth-st. ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Oollins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son; HOBART: J. Waich & Sons.
MASON BROTHERS
(LIMITED),
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the Trade and Wholesale
buyers only,
Ironmongery A General Hardware,
GLASS, CHINA, and EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, & SPIRITS,
and
GENERAL BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for— LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
OLD BRANDIES.
J. T. GAYEN’S Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN & CO.’S Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S “ Pelican ” Stout.
“THE ROYAL EDINBURGH CASTLE”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKIES.
GROTH
F O R
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Ous,Colours * Paints.
WALL PAPERS Fro/u 3 f
, PER
ROLL
PA I
529 George
Brickfield Hill.
Professor Paul.
Health, Strength and Manhood Restored!
Cure for all. A thorough Systematic and Scientific Cure
for jBl. Sent to any address. Three months' supply.
New Life L Energy
<£l
Vitality Restored
Nervous, Mental and Physical Debility, Lost Manhood,
Rheumatism, Gout, Chronic and Wasting Diseases, the
result of youthful indiscretions, etc., permanently cured.
Time-honoured and reliable remedy. Used by eminent
men throughout the world with success. Personally, I
have cured thousands. Where it fails cure is hopeless!
Acknowledged great Nerve and Brain Tonic—one trial will
suffice. Sample Box (month’s supply), 7/6. £l-note or
stamps. Register letters. Prof. PAUL, Specialist,
Pox 1081 G.P.0., SYDNEY. Late Acting-Chief
Consulting Physician to the Australian Medical and
Surgical Infirmary. Twenty Years’ experience. Hun-
dreds of references. Interviews arranged. Advice and
instructions free.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
GOLDEN SHANTY.
Relief from Cough iii 10 Minutes,
Mai/mans k
at s am
The most Safe hnd Speedy Remedy
Fdn
INFLUENZA, COUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, 4c.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE.
Immediately it is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.R. Office, Belleek, Co. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.— July, 1891.
’ Sold by all Chemists at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9d.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents:—Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
•Rook: of Mature.
ģ
Book of jXTatnre.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the maVried,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post!/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &0., price 1/6. Dancing without a master—Ball-
room Guide and Self-instructor, by Prof. Peltzer, 1/3.
“Every Man his own Schoolmasl .r,-or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street. SYDNEY.
3VT o More Freckles,
Tan, Sunburn or Rough Complexions.
m
m
1
A/TRS. ANN \ RUPtERT’S world-famed Skin Tonic is
-‘■’A- an absolute cure for these annoying- blemishes.
What gives more discomfort than a blotched face after a
day’s outing ? Anna Ruppert’s Skin Tonic removes, as
well as prevents, these results. It hardens and invigor-
ates the skin so as to remove lines and prevent wrinkles.
It cleanses the pores so that it aids Nature in the removal
and prevention of excessive redness and oily ness, tones
relaxed muscles, and, in fact, gives a youthful, firm, fresh
complexion. Used by the best of society. Endorsed by
leading doctors. Price (per bottle), 10s. 6d.; 3 bottles
together (usually required), 255. Postage to Australia, 1
bottle, 2s. ; 3 bottles, ss. Complete course of remedies
specially prepared for the Australian climate, £3 35., includ-
ing postage. Harmless for a child's skin. Artistic manicur-
ing. Best chiropody. Full line of best instruments (her
own make) cheap; guaranteed. Exquisite perfumes,
lasting and reasonable. Her popular corset, already used
by many society ladies who pronounce it perfection,
simple, easy, graceful and durable, from 12s. 6d. Valuable
“ Book on Beauty ” free for 2d. postage. Private rooms
for consultation in each department. AH correspondence
treated confidentially. No names used. Information by
letter or in person, freely given. Call or address the
celebrated American Complexion Specialist,
Mrs. ANNA RUPPERT.
SYDNEY AGENT MISS W. J. ROBINSON
153 Strand, Sydney.
Head Office, Regent Street, London : also, Paris,
Barcelona, &c.
BOOKS! BOOKS ! BOOKS!
■(ought mill llvchmigcil.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
E WAS GRATEFUL.
Miners, as a rule, are brave men, and one of
their strong points is a sense of gratitude. One of
the class, a bronzed, weather-beaten toiler, by
name Albert Tucker, walked one afternoon into
the head agency of the Waterbury Watch Com-
pany, in Sydney, and demanded to be presented
to “ the boss.” His wish being gratified, he pro-
ceeded to explain that “he was only down for the
day,” but he had determined, the first time he
was in Sydney, to come along and state what he
knew about “the most wonderful of watches.”
The boss had reckoned himself blush proof, but
the string of eulogiums that Mr. Tucker let off
without taking breath brought up a ruddy glow
never before suspected to exist. “I bought a
short-wind Waterbury for 22s. Gd., some two years
ago, from your agent at Trunkey,’’ he said.
“Since then I have worn it constantly above and
below ground, and in all temperatures, and the
way it has kept time almost to the second under
all conditions is a positive wonder. If I did not
know where to get another Waterbury, I would
not take £8 for this one. I thought,” he con-
cluded by observing, “it was only right to come
and tell you, for it’s the best watch I ever saw or
heard tell of, and everybody ought to know about
it.” The latest developments in Waterburys are
the new and improved watches for ladies and
gentlemen, known respectively as the “N” and
“K” series. These are procurable in nickel,
sterling silver, or rolled gold eases (with 15 years’
guarantee), and while being inexpensive are highly
artistic in appearance, and for reliability are
second to no other timekeeper in the world.
Waterbury Watch Co.’s
Repair Depot,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Note the Address.
COLGATE’S CASHMERE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap is made with the utmost care from
materials selected with the
GREATEST REGARD FOR PURITY,
And the soothing and beneficial effect which they
impart to the skin and the complexion.
FIFTY PER CENT.
of the comfort of shaving depends on the .map used.
Try COLGATE’S DEMULCENT SHAVING
SOAP.
For the handkerchief, no preparation can com-
pare with
CASHMERE BOUQUET PERFUME.
Madame Sara Bernhardt writes: “Colgate’s
Soaps and Perfumes arc Exquisite.”
Miss Myra Kemble, writing of Colgate’s Cash-
mere Bouquet, says : “ It is the most delicious
perfume in the world, and when used in conjunc-
tion with Cashmere Bouquet Toilet Soap is per-
fection itself.”
The name and trade mark of Colgate and Co.
on each article assures purchasers of superior and
uniform quality. Their various exhibits obtained
the HIGHEST AWARDS at London, 1887:
Newcastle, 18S7 ; Ostend, 1S88 ; and
GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 188!).
Sold by all leading chemists and perfumers.
Carlyle said Cardinal Newman “ hadrT*'
the intellect of a r-abbit. ”
In 1885 Gladstone said : “ Every grievance
of Ireland has been redressed.”
“There is no bad whisky: but I admit
that some kinds of whisky may be better than
others.” — F, Marion Crawford, in “With the
Immortals.”
Rev. H. R. Haweis : “For 25 years 1
have ‘ wrastled ’ with the music and morals of
choirs, and it would be strange if I had not come
to some very definite ideas about them.” Is he
going to shut his church at night, too ?
There is in England a funny Tory named
Tracy Turnerelli, who complains that he gets
none of the honours, though he has spent to date
1,036,800 hours in buttressing up Her Majesty’s
throne. Which beats the apothecary, who sat up
whole nights watching over the British Constitu-
tion.
Sydney Echo’s “wufc” gets ahead of its
history. Poking “fun” at the Ludgate Weekly’s
article on Australian slang, thus the Echo : —
“Cunning enough, he attempts no reference to
the recent decease of William III.’s royal
daughter ” All the Echo knows about Queen
Anne is that she is dead. It evidently doesn’t
know that she was William’s sister-in-law.
RELICS OF A
GREAT BATTLE.
THE field of Waterloo is still a source ol
great attraction to strangers and tourists
generally, though 77 years have elapsed since that
eventful 18th of June which witnessed the over-
throw of the hitherto victorious French army, and
the deathblow to the ambitious designs of the
great Napoleon. Every year hundreds of sight-
seers visit this historical spot from all parts of the
vvorld, and it appears to possess particular attrac-
tion for the travelling American, who generally
evinces great interest in everything old that has a
history, and, as a rule, likes to carry a relic away
with him if possible. This proclivity provides
profitable occupation for sundry peasants who
reside in the neighborhood of the battlefield, who
do a large trade in chairs that the Iron Duke sat
on after the battle, tumblers that he drank out of,
each of course being described as “the identical
tumbler;” certainly if they are all authentic it
must have been the biggest drunk on record.
Jawbones of generals and colonels who fell in the
fight are a good line, the market, of course,
ruling according to the demand. The other day
we saw some genuine relics of a battle of Water-
loo—not the conflict of 1815, however, for this
particular struggle took place at Waterloo,
Sydney, about seven years ago, and the carnage
was not nearly so great as at the former scrim-
mage. In fact, there were only two combatants,
viz., St. Jacobs Oil and Rheumatism; the latter
being completely vanquished, after having held
the field for 18 months against all-comers. The
only relics of the fra»y area pair of crutches, which,
being of no further service to the owner, may be
purchased at 50 per cent, under cost. The par-
ticulars of the encounter are graphically described
by the owner of the field of operations, by name
Charles Ellis, of Botany-street, Waterloo, a well-
known resident in that locality. He says: “I
had a very bad attack of rheumatism in the feet
some years ago, and was off work for a consider-
able time, having to get about on crutches. I
was in this state for about 18 months, and tried
all sorts of things to cure it—without result. At
last I got some St. Jacobs Oil, which was strongly
recommended, and I need say no more than the
fact that after using the third bottle I was able to
go to a party, where I danced and enjoyed my-
self. The oil made a complete cure, for I have
not had any return of the rheumatism since.
Nearly everybody in this neighborhood knows me,
and can bear out what I have said,”


Registered.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
mm
GOLD MEDAL.
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED. AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
OISCOVE R. E D and. REGISTERED Tt»y
Herr
•LObTi
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWORN TESTIMONY.
Statutory
advt
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows : —
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Bassmussen's
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALPALINE
PILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
THE ALE ALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Balt, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wsi. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir, —This is to certify that
Sour Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
isease, after many doctors had failed. — John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist. —Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, G-t Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen—I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both in my caseand in severalof my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any' remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.— F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. —A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 1G0
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.— J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.— P. 11. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have found your Alfaline Liver
And Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers : I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
■
.
mi
8
■
s
m
V
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the ‘‘Centennial History of
N. S- Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duly free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted, Is. 6d.,
3c., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes,
posted,3s., 65., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and tailing off. Posted,
3s. and 6s.
Herr Bassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIED to
he Genuine.
“ Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.” —Australian Star.
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
1 ruth. His HSrbal Remedies are unequalled.”—Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the-highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.” —Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen lias now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
“Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them. Mr.
Rarnsden’s case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “doctors” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen's Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
suffering humanity.”—Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
N.S.W.
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world—are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”—The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, ( Jth January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales.”—The Essenden and Flemington Chronicik and
North Melbourne Advertiser.—lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmu sen,—Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O'Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.—Wm. H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, Varicocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any Kind. Ordinary course, 235. 6d.
posted. Special powerful double <*mrse, 435. Gd. posted. Boxes at
6s. and 12s.
Chief Head Depot:
547 G-EOBG-E STIR-lEET,
SYDNEY.
tgy MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Head Depot;
150 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
FT” R. me lies sent Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
£W” Remedies sent Duly Free.
Queensland Head Depot i
QUEEU S T B E E T,
BRISBANE.
Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALKALINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE OBTAINED FROM THE AROVEMENTfONED DEPOTS.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Valuable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice.
May bo obtained from all Depots.
Posted, Is.
Imp ortant.
Always send money by P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same. All correspondence
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “ The Alfaline Medical Guide,” sent, free on
receipt of addressed and 2d. stamped envelope. • '


The universal popularity of Ayer’s Hair Vigor
js the most convincing proof of its value as a
Dressing for the Hair.
■When the hair becomes thin, faded, or pre-
maturely gray, this preparation restores all its
former color, fullness, and texture. Bland, cool,
and delightfully perfumed, Ayer’s Hair Vigor
prevents baldness, keeps the head free front
dandruff, and cures unsightly and troublesome
humors of the scalp. Ladies desirous of having
ah abundance of soft, silky tresses, and gentle-
men who wisli to preserve their youthful ap-
pearance to ah advanced age, would do well to
furnish their toilets With
Ayer’s Hair Vigor,
BKEBABED by
Dr. I C, AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. 4
Sold by Druggists and Perfumers.
BROOME’S'MUSIC
Full Music Size ait«l Guaranteed Corrects
O'.
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free,
No. SONGS.
41]. Song that Reached My Heart.
403. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in P. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in P.
569. Maggie Murphy s Home.
585. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in C.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat, 603 in F,
618. Remember now thy Creator.
619 Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
627. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. The Country Wedding Barn Dance
THE HOLBORM MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 1845] trade supplied. [Est. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
MaigldcKchCf
USUVIOH sE
,1'IJIII! 1 ' l! 1,1
LOHS E’S
MAIGLdCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
aretbe mostfasbionable intbe world.
Sold by all ljigl} class'ferfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
J{ Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
g
0
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
Fob TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
«1 no milk is to be added ; it is quick ly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
1»1 fants, “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
— Lancet y April 4,189,1.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-I*l. valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants."
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Mattel Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents
'Eli.iott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
At Coogee yob can buy Gr N tt N Dariitigs.
Ha ! ha ! I’Ve struck it! What ? GN U N
Darling the best smoke to be got.
At Ashfield you can buy GNIIN Darlings.
At Leichhardt you can buy GNUN Darling.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Brillian-
line, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very economical for general use; it is
the best softener and beautifier of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches} also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Sizes 3s. 75.. atid 10*. C>d.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONlAisapureand
fragrant toilet powder in three tints—white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is. and 2s. 6d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
Incomparable—G NUN Darlings.
All civilised races smoke G N U N Darlings.
Capital and labour unite in praising the excel
lence of G N U N Darlings.
At Botany you can buy G N U N Darlings.
A BRILLIANT COMPLEXION
Aiul Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
Vanish, like Magic
By a few applications of
(professor gevon’s gomplexion Lotion,
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
clear the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. Jgif" Beware of worthless counterfeits -they
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
ss. (id., Stamps or P. 0.0.
Prof. DEVON.
20 Castlerbagh Street (City), SYDNEY.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
Errand Metropolitan Exhibition 6f the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS*” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: MCCARTHY A CO*
Everything ill connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
TVHeC! ATITTTV & CO., Tobacco Merchants,
06b GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
3^
n
w
¥\W:l' /
tr(< i;
GIVES NERVE POWERS
Emotes APP^ISr;
IMPROVES DIGESTION
, MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
ĝ
To clean tombstones.
To polish knives.
To clean dishes.
To renew oil-cloth.
To scrub floors.
To whiten marble.
To renovate paint.
To wash out sinks.
To remove rust.
To brighten metals.
To scour bath-tubs.
To scour kettles.
EVERYBODY USES IT.
Dentists to clean false teeth.
Surgeons to polish their instruments.
Confectioners to scour their pans.
Mechanics to brighten their tools.
Cooks to clean the kitchen sink.
Painters to clean off surfaces.
Engineers to clean parts ofmachlnes.
Ministers to renovate old chapels.
Sextons to clean the tombstones.
Hostlers on brasses and white horses.
Artists to clean their palattes.
Wheelman to clean bicycles.
Housemaids to scrub marble floors.
Chemists to remove some stains.
Carvers to sharpen their knives.
Shrewd ones to scour old straw batS
Soldiers to brighten their arms.
Renovators to clean carpets.
EVERY ONE FINDS A NEW USE.
SOLD BY GROOBES, CHEMISTS. AND IRONMONGERS,
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
3VTx*s. KILMIKTSTKR Proprietress,
*Si/
40*
IsALWAYsfHE> Best
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Within Forty (40) Miles of Sydney on Western Railway Line,
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Rights
RE ISTOW BEADY FOB -A-lETD SELECTIOIT.
COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY—PENRITH TO MULGOA.
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa, or to Sydney Agents,
Hardie Sz Gorman, X 33 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Drought.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The fierce sun, scorching like a wild desire,
Shines hard and bright above an arid plain f
The blackened traces of consuming fire
Charred timbers still retain;
For ruthless drought Upon the land has put
Hot footsteps, blasting all it treads upon j
The sap of life is dried in stem and root*
And green leaves all are gone;
The dry* dead eucalypts* like inch distfest
Who stretch gaunt, withered arms up to the sky,
And batter heaven with a ceaseless quest*
Lift barkless branches high.
Long, burning days drag slowly by and pass j
Time lags and swelters through the glowing
hours
Beneath a dome that Shines as burnished brass*
From which each live thing coWefs;
The clouds are bound in bonds that Cannot burst j
The mighty winds, enchained, give forth no
breath ;
The land is even as a place accurst*
Swept by a sudden death;
STEELE GREY.
At the receilt Mayor’s ball, Melbourne,
they had French wines only—all Australian
) abooedi
Owing to the last great increase in the
French tariff the Customs returns have fallen
.£250,000 in one month. That is to say, because
the duties have been largely increased the people
pay £3,000,000 per annum less than they did
before, and the “ burden ” has decreased to that
extent; And meanwhile the principal joy of
Freetrade England is that the Customs revenue
is always getting bigger—in other words, that the
people pay more in duties every year, and the
burden of Freetrade is always getting heavier.
The Warriraoo, Huddart-Parker’s new
Australia-Maoriland liner, which has come from
London to Sydney via the Cape in record
time* should make the trip between Syd-
ney and Auckland in 3| days. She is 4,000
tons, is 350 ft. long, of 43ft. beam, runs 17
knots, and has a rolling keel which will practically
abolish sea-sickness ; is water - ballasted, and
practicably uusinkable, having a cellular bottom
of nine bulkheads. The passenger arrangements
are splendid, and there is an unbroken promenade
of 270 feet. The ship is fitted with electric-light
and noiseless winches.
Dear Bulletin, —Are you aware that for
many years Madeline Smith has been living in
Australia? I refer, of course, to the notorious
defendant in the great arsenic-poisoning case at
Glasgow in 1857, “ a case full of interest and
doubt, the mystery of which will probably never
be disclosed.” Put shortly, the facts are these :
Madeline Smith (aged 19), daughter of an architect
of standing in Glasgow, and Pierre I’Angelier,
clerk, were sweethearts (but against the wish of
the girl’s parents), and “stepped o’er the line.”
This continued from early in 1854 till the end of
1856. Then her affection for I’Angelier cooled,
for she was receiving attentions from one Mr.
Minnoch, with her people’s consent. In February,
’57, Minnoch proposed and was accepted.
L’Angelier, however, continued to pester her, and
threatened to expose her previous relations with
him. Three times in February and March, 1857,
I’Angelier was taken suddenly ill, the symptoms
in each case being the same. From the last attack
he died, and the post-mortem showed that he had
died of arsenic-poisoning. The evidence made it
almost certain that it had been administered by
the girl, but there were two weak spots in the-
chain. So strong, however, was the evidence
that, though acquitting her on the first charge,
the jury refused to acquit on the second and third,
returning the Scotch verdict of “Not Proven.”
Whether she married Minnoch I don’t know, but
think not. Soon after the trial she disappeared
from Scotland. Some years since, however, 1
suddenly came on her in Melbourne, She was
then the wife of a clever doctor. They never
agreed well, though, she being a very masterful
woman. Domestic discord drove him to drink,
and Madeline left him. Instead of seeking
divorce, the doctor sought country practice, first
at a village in the Mornington peninsula, and
later in a town in the Wimmera. In the latter
place he had a “ niece ” living with him, who had
formerly been his housemaid. She being a very
quiet and pleasant woman, they lived together
very affectionately till his death, a year or so back,
from breaking-up due to alcoholism. His legal
wife, Madeline Smith, still owns property in
Victoria, and I am told she was seen in (Melbourne
a week ago.—Yours, S.G.
The Duke of Sutherland, by bequeathing
a cool million* or so, to his Yankee widow, has
made some amends to the country which supplies
Hingland’s old nobility with heiresses.
One of the hon. secretaries of Brisbane
Hospital Saturday writes giving particulars of
how this year’s amount (£283 10s.) was made up,
and showing pretty conclusively that the wealthy
classes contribute very little.
“I affirm it as my conviction that class
laws, placing capital above labour, are more
dangetous to the republic at this hour than was
chattel slavery in the days of its haughtiest
supremacy.”— Abraham Lincoln.


Advice to YounglSlen -Dr. Richards’ ad.,
“German
Syrup”
A Cough
and Croup
Medicine.
For children a medi-
cine should be abso-
lutely reliable. A
mother must be able to
pin her faith to it as to
her Bible. It must
contain nothing violent, uncertain,
or dangerous. It must be standard
in material and manufacture. It
must be plain and simple to admin-
ister; easy and pleasant to , take.
The child must like it. It must be
prompt in action, giving immedi-
ate relief, as childrens’ troubles
come quick, grow fast, and end
fatally or otherwise in a very short
time. It must not only relieve quick
but bring them around quick, as
children chafe and fret and spoil
their constitutions under long con-
finement. It must do its work in
moderate doses. A large quantity
of medicine in a child is not desira-
ble. It must not interfere with the
child’s spirits, appetite or general
health." These things suit old as
well as young folks, and make Bo-
schee’s German Syrup the favorite
family medicine, $
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND >
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THE WORLD,
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
LABOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO Packets of the “RISING
SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
CHANCELLORS 'Plate Bowden
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.)
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers.
N
B
Birth.
OCTOBER 15, at her residence, Gallop House, Arthtlr-
street, Ashfleld, the wife of QUONG TART of a son,
MELBOURNE RACES,
Oct. 29, Nov. 1,3, and 5, 1892
TICKET ARRANGEMENTS.
By the Ordinary Mail Train leaving Sydney for
Melbourne at 9.0 p.m.—HOLIDAY EXCUR-
SION TICKETS to Melbourne will be issued at
Sydney from MONDAY, OCTOBER 24, to
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, inclusive, available
for return within two months from date of isslie
by Mail Train leaving Albury at 2.45 p.m,
iFARES.
First Class Return ... <£s 6 6
Second Class Return 4 1 0
These Tickets will Not be available for return
by Express Train, except by payment of the
difference between the Ordinary and Holiday Ex-
cursion Rates, viz. : 15s. First Class and 10s.
Second Class.
At all other Stations Holiday Excursion Tickets
will be issued from Monday, October 24th, to
Friday, November 4th, inclusive, available for re-
turn for two months, at the local Holiday Excur-
sion Rate to Albury, plus the Excursion Fate
Albury to Melbourne, viz. : 395. 9d. First and 245.
Second Class.
On the Southern Line, in cases where the two
local Fares (vizi, to Albury and thence to Mel-
bourne) amount to more than the through rate
from Sydney to Melbourne, the Sydney rate only,
viz., £5 6s. 6d. First Class, and £4 Is. Second
Class, will be charged.
On the Western Line passengers will be charged
the Holiday Excursion Rate ( via Blayney) to
Albury, and the Local Excursion Fare, Albury to
Melbourne, added as shown above; but when the
passengers from the Western Line travel via
Sydney, Holiday Excursion Fare to Sydney, plus
the Holiday Excursion Fare, Sydney to Mel-
bourne, added, will be charged.
On the Northern Line passengers will be charged
the Local Holiday Excursion Fare to Sydney,
plus the Holiday Excursion Fare Sydney to Mel-
bourne.
By Ordinary Express and Special Fast
Express Trains
Fares from Sydney to Melbourne : .£6 Is. 6d.
First, and <£4 11s. Second, available for two
months from date of issue.
In addition to the Regular Express and Mail
Service,
SPECIAL FAST EXPRESS TRAIN,
composed of SLEEPING CARS and IM-
PROVED LAVATORY CARRIAGES, will be
run as under :
The NEW PULLMAN VESTIBULE CARS,
which are replete with every comfort, will be run
from SYDNEY to ALBURY on these Trains.
On Saturday, November sth, a SPECIAL
EXPRESS TRAIN will leave Melbourne at
9.55 p.m. (Melbourne Time), and be due Sydney
at 5.55 p.m. (Sydney Time) on Sunday Evening,
November 6th.
By Order of the Commissioners,
H. McLACHLAN, Secretary.
Sydney, October 18th, 1892,
£lOO IK GOLD
and other valuable Presents given away to those
who guess the Rebus
OT
mu
!rt
RH
The above Rebus is an old saying familiar to
veryone. What is it? We wdl the g*
ersonfrom whom we receive the correct
inswer before December 30th, 1897, *2. in S
Xecond, £l2 10s.; to the next five persons.h
andsome Silk Dress Pattern of 16 yams m Blac •
hue, Green. Brown or Fancy; and to the nexUS
ending in correct answer £1 eacli, and to a
f the next lb, a Solid Gold Genuine diamond
bng. To the person from whom we recel )f® the
ist correct answer, £2O in gold ;to the bext t
ist, £l2 ; the next 5, a handsome Silk Dress Pax
ern of 16 yards in one of the above coloi^,
he first of the next 10, a Solid Gold Gen
•iamond Bing ; and to the next 15 should there D
o many send in correct answers, £1 apiece.
We prepay all shipping or P ostn f^ c ,^% er on
resents, and send in accordance with this otter o
he same day the answer is received. All answe
uxst be sent by mail registered and re °‘ ive *!s er .
ot later than December 30th with your a « s
end us £2 in notes or gold for one of IVia
lamara’s Electric Life Belts,
arts guaranteed in all cases undertaken.
Patronised by Royalty.
The KI-YA and TI-TA INSTITUTE,
LIZABETH STREET (xkar Bathurst Street),
SYDNEY.
ver 8000 cases of disease treated by our Specialists
In Twelve Months without a failure.
SPORTING- NOTIONS'
Paris, The Bulletin tip for the Melbourne Cup
last year, won the Caulfield Cup this year, but for the
reason that he had run right among the " nowheres ” in
the Stakes, a week previous, this confiding journal was
“put off ” the noble animal. Of Bungebah and Paris, in
the Stakes, The Bulletin said—“ Both of these erratic
Sydney horses carried money, therefore they were pre-
sumably doing their best, or something near it. In which
case they are not likely to start warm favourites (for the
Caulfield Cup), or to run up to their improved appear-
ance.’’ It is generally, or should always be, a point of
honour with a “ prophet” not to predict the victory of a
horse in a big race when his latest form is two or three
stone under that of a fair winning chance. To say that a
distinguished quadruped ought to come in first next
week, because he ran all behind in a race the week
before, is calculated to shake public confidence in
the integrity of the Turf as an institution, and
this is most undesirable. There could be no
more grounds for such a tip than for the sug-
gestion that a Davies bank was about to go bung,
because it had published a splendid balance-sheet. Paris,
as a “representative” thoroughbred, was not to be
declared guilty of any attempt to mislead the public.
During last week, however, rumour stated that the jockey
had forgotten to “ move” on Paris when he was making
such a poor show in the Caulfield Stakes, and it was freely
suggested by the cognoscenti that Paris, when moved,
might display a good deal of emotion with his legs. Little
M‘Gowan, booked to ride Pygmalion when Linburn went
amiss, mentioned that Paris was the only animal he
feared, and Paddy's mysterious dread, so inexpli-
cable “on paper” (yet so well-founded, as events
proved), set a number of people thinking. Paris
didn’t start a warm favourite for the Caulfield Cup,
but he won it very easily. Spokesman, G’Naroo,
and others that finished far before him on Oct. Bth,
obtained only a distant view of his victorious tail on Oct.
16th, there being nothing in the weights to explain this
sudden change of front. Also, the public took the win in
good part, especially as many of them had backed the
horse a fortnight before and couldn’t hedge their money.
They even cheered Paris respectfully, much as they cheer
an “explanation” from Matthew Davies. They are quiet,
peace-loving people, these Melbournians. Such a marked
reversal of form on an English racecourse would have
resulted in a devil of a tumult. Not that there might
have been any just grounds for complaint, for horses are
but equine after all. But the stupid British crowd groan
and howl on principle whenever they tancy that the
glorious uncertainty of the turf is being laid on a little
too thick.
• * *
How many of the horses which didn’t win the
Caulfield Cup were “ moved on ” for that race—it is im-
possible to say. Pygmalion, Pigeontoe, Ulric, Sword-
bearer, Yarran, Clonard, and a few others, seemed to do
all they knew, whilst the rest of them may have been
equally anxious to win without ever “flattering their
admirers.” The first-mentioned ran in characteristic
style, but the real disappointments of the race were
Fortunatus and G’Naroo. Last year's winner ought to
have been called G’Narooin this time.
# * *
Where jockeys can’t tell, how shall punters
decide? When James Hayes had got home upon Fortun-
atus for the Toorak Handicap, he said “ Another stone
won’t stop him for the Caulfield Cup.” Three days later
Jimmy rode Pigeontoe in the Mentone Handicap, and was
so disgusted with the performance of that bent-footed
animal that he cried off him for the Cup, and elected to
ride his fancy, Fortunatus, instead. In the opinion of a
capable jockey, who had had a “fair go ” on each of the
pair, it was a sovereign to a gooseberry that Fortunatus
could run clean away from Pigeontoe on Saturday. Yet
Pigeontoe stayed amongst the leading three for more than
a mile, while the little Fryingpan horse, after getting
away absolutely first, was very soon outpaced.
# • *
For the Caulfield Cup, Dundas and Malolo, in
turn, had the money piled on to them by the public on
the strength of their being stable-companions to G’Naroo,
who was supposed, until the owners backed him, to be in
keeping for the larger event. When will the public learn
that it is absolutely necessary, for an owner who would
get a good price about a horse, to keep others? Any
horses will serve this purpose, and they may pick up a
smaller race later on. The fact of a man possessing a
Carbine doesn’t go to prove that all his other horses are
first-class.
• • •
However, there are rumours about that the
backing of a certain horse was a mistake, the wager being
meant for the other cup.
# * *
George Watson fined 31 jockeys <£s each for
disobedience at the Cup post, and otherwise distinguished
himself by dropping the flag to a couple of wretchedly
bad starts, on Saturday, The “ Prince of Starters,” in
fact, is getting to be a gigantic factor in the glorious
uncertainty of racing.
m * *
The gouty Watson’s action reminds one of
Private Murphy’s famous declaration; “Oi’m the only
man in step in the whole rigiment.” The Watsonian
liver, of course, is never out of step.
* * *
The Redfearn family are said to be divided
in their opinion concerning Malvolio and Correze
for the Melbourne Cup. The old man—who isn’t very
aged yet, by the way—swears by last year’s winner,
whilst son George inciines his heart towards the dandy
chestnut.
# * *
Payten said, before leaving Sydney for Mel-
bourne, “It is impossible for me to judge which is the
better horse between Camoola and Autonomy. In their
trials they take turn about in point of speed. Whichever
happens to be in the best nick will be sent for the Derby
and Cup.”
* * *
So many big races are won by horses “eased
up” in their work, that it looks much as if the majority
of race-horses are overtrained and run their race on the
training-track.
# # *
Wanganella, the 1400-guinea own sister to
Marv el, won the Nursery Handicap at Caulfield in a style
that promises she wall turn out a galloping machine like
her victorious and notorious brother.
# » *
Paris’ number—-49,468—was the highest number
in Tatt.’s Caulfield Cup sweep to draw a horse.
• # *
None of the sporting papers published three
days before the race anticipated the backing of G’Naroo
for the Caulfield Cup. Some “professional” tipsters
actually went for Correze, a horse that was never intended
to be a starter.
Secretary Bond was memorised at the Caulfield
races by bits of crape on the members’ cards; Hollow
thing, like the tribute paid at London Alhambra on the
news of Offenbach’s death. “Tambour Major” was
played, with crape round the left arm—not the left leg
of each performer.
» * *
Mr. Miller must have felt more flattered than
pleased, when he found Redleap handicapped at 14st.
101 b. in the Two-mile Steeplechase at Caulfield.
# # *
South Australia has not had a big candidate in
Melbourne or Caulfield Cups for years, and this year there
is not likely to be a horse in the belting representing a
South Australian owner. Since the famous Newstead
year things have become worse and worse, but in a year
or two you will see something different, because the S A;
breeding is always good—Elder’s especially.
# # #
The backing of Calculus fob the V.R.C. Derby
caused owner Forrester to announce that he has no
intention of putting any money on the good-looking colt,
and is not even certain to start him for the race. Such
anxiety to let the public know all about it is rather
touching.
• * #
The V.A.T.C. secretary advertised Zalinski as
a star performer on the Caulfield programme after the
horse had been scratched for all engagements. This was
about the same as a theatrical manager announcing the
appearance of a distinguished actor who happened to be
dead.
• * *
Gollan, the rich Maoriland race-horse owner, is
hardly an enthusiastic sportsman in the horse line. While
the last Newmarket Handicap was being run he was
stroking an eight up the Yarra.
* * #
Candour (said to be owned by three Chinamen)
Is worth watching. “ Chinaman’s luck! ”
* # •
A lately-developed racehorse-owner, who boasts
that he never backs his horses, but runs for pure glory,
recently accepted 40 per cent, of Tattersall’s sweep-ticket
money from the holders, some workmen.
• • •
Not long ago a well-known S.A. sport had a
dead bird, and the public suspected the good thing.
They got on it and reduced the odds down to level money,
but the owner didn’t get enough money up to satisfy him-
self. He, therefore, got a stable-boy to do the pre-
liminary canter, and sent the jockey over to the starting
post. Betting stopped ahd he got his money on in the
“ tote,” and won a good sum. The stewards were satisfied
with the subsequent “explanation,” that the jockey was
secured at the last minute, and thus the clever owner
brought off a very smart thing.
# # •
Cabby Smith, of Woolloomooloo (pretty in-
indefinite this\ drew the winning horse in the big Caul-
field sweep. He kept open house (or the night, and gave
his horse and cab away to a poorer friend.
* * *
One clay last week Tattersall received 4500
applications by one post for tickets in the big Melbourne
sweep. That day’s total amounted to 5600 applications,
representing a sum of over £lO,OOO.
• • •
Laurette, at Eagle Farm, Q., paid a totalisator
dividend of £42 6s. for £l, the other day, and a few da\ s
after a horse called Ring rewarded his solitary follower
with £67 odd for 10s. No wonder the bookmakers oppose
pro-totalisator legislation.
• • •
A phenomenal accident happened lately to a
Sydney cricketer. He cut a ball and ran. A fieldsman
took the ball and flung it at the wicket. It struck a
stump and sent it high in the air. Simultaneously the
stump reached the ground inverted and the batsman
reached his creASe and fell. The batsman and stump fell
towards fach other, and the stump’s brass tip entered
the unlucky cricketer’s neck. The wound was a horrid
one.
• * #
Gloucestershire would be very glad to let N.S.
Wales have Perris back for very much less than he cost
the county. He has been a dead frost, his bowling
average being only 40 wickets for 612 balls, costing 28
runs each. His batting average is a fraction over 17 runs
per innings. J.J.F.’s failure will have one good effect—it
will nut a stop to the unsportsmanlike system of offering
bribes to players, t.e., amateurs.
# # *
Sammy Woods, of Australia, is bowling in great
form in England just now ; he has taken to varying his
pace, d la Spofforth, with much success. In the first
innings of a match, East v. West of England, playing for
the latter, at one period his analysis read 7 overs, 15 runs,
6 wickets. In the second innings he took six wickets for
53 runs. He continued this in a match, North v. South,
taking six wickets for 35 runs. Spoil, played for the
North, but was quite out of practice.
# # *
A curious accident happened to a Sydney
cricketer on Saturday week. While walking to the
wicket and chatting with the umpire a wasp flew into his
mouth and stung him on the tongue.
• • •
Hall and Fitzsimmons are matched to fight for
% £3OOO purse, at New Orleans, in February next. At
middleweight Fitz. should win. At catch-weights it should
be a close affair.
« • •
“On what foundation stands the warrior’s
pride?” The champion pug.’s glory is very insecure.
Look at the number that have lately fallen—Sullivan
(J.L.), Slavin, Jem Smith, Pritchard, Billy Murphy, &o.
# # •
The result of the Creedon-Ryan fight confirms
the opinion that the latter does not care to risk his hand-
some mug before a hard-hitting opponent. A pug.' has
no business to be handsome.
• » •
Dan Creedon was disappointing in his fight with
Jim Ryan, even allowing for want of condition, which he
plainly showed. For the first few rounds Ryan had, if
anything, the best of the exchanges, but he soon
weakened, and shook hands with Creedon at the com-
mencement of the seventh round. If Creedon showed
anything like his true form, his chance with the lathy
middleweight cracks is simply nil,
* * *
Some of the papers have a raw head and bloody
hands column descriptive of the Sullivan-Corbett fight.
“ After being counted out Sullivan rears his mighty
stature from the floor, holds his giant hands towards
Heaven and calls on the crowd, excited as demons, to
behold Corbett, the champion of the world. It is a great
histrionic close.” It isn’t; it’s obviously all bosh, for
Corbett isn’t world’s champion at all. A gruesome fact
has lately transpired: When a big pugilist is at last
“licked ” he always sits down in his dressing-room i n 1
sobs convulsively.' Pritchard, the other day, cried after
being beaten by Australian Hall; and Sullivan blubbered
vigorously after " Pompadour Jim” had “knocked the
stuffin’ ” "out of him.
• # •
In a letter to Sydney, George Dawson says that
Needham is the cleverest boxer he ever stood before.
Almost as soon as their hands were up, he smashed
George’s nose, and the second blow drove a piece of the
bone into the artery, and all through the fight he was
nearly choked with blood. George’s Grecian nose-beauty
is spoilt. ,
# # *
When George Dawson was leaving Sydney, in
the steerage, by the Yankee mail-boat, the usual crowd
turned up for champagne, which was uncorked in the
first cabin. Someone in the background called a couple
of the principals concerned and asked if it wasn’t a bit
“ off-colour ” to fill the lad with wine in the cabin, and
then turn him into the steerage? The outcome was the
collection of the needful to turn the steerage ticket into
a cabin.
# # #
Says a New York paper’s correspondent at Salt
Lake‘. “Herbert Slade, the Maori wrestler and boxer, «h)
for several years has been a ranchman in this vicinity, is
now fleeing from the wrath of Bishop Sueazy, of the
MOrmofi'ijiHrch. Sneazy, who is a wealthy and influential
man in his community, resides at Mona, a small town
about 00 miles from here. Ho has a beautiful daughter,
who fell in love with Slade and bent a willing ear to his
proposals of marriage. The bishop, however, would have
none of the prize-fighter, and locked the girl in her room.
Late one night Slade assisted the girl to escape, hurried
her before a Justice of the Peace, and the couple then
started the for Pacific Coast. Bishop Sneazv attempted to
pursue the lovers, but they were too far in advance, and
he has gone back to Mona to nurse his wrath. We
would like to see a bishop start after Slavin now—or
Jackson!
• • •
In reply to a West Australian correspondent,
we have merely to say that we don’t know anything
beyond what we have already stated about Mr. “ A. J.
Miller,” of 40 Hunter-street, Sydney. Mr. Miller claims
to run a bona-fide racing-sweep, and if he will invite a
Bulletin representative to attend the drawing, we shall
be glad to report what Mr. Miller’s show is like.
# #
Good English stofy told the writer by chappie
lust Out had wired to a bookmaker to lay him a
“ pony ” about Bev Jones. As he didn’t receive a reply
he looked up the bookie; “ Did you do that for me .
he asked. “Do what?” “ Why, put that ‘ pony ’on Bev
Jones.” “Hang it all, now I come to think of it, I did get
a wire which read, ‘Pull pony, Reverend Jones, and I
thought it was some gospel-grinder who was doing a
‘ rope ’ at a galloway meeting.”
* * *
The writer met a white-haired veteran “ shinty ”
player, the other day, whose favourite trophy is the club
with which he broke three shins. “Shinty ” used to be a
great game among the “ Geordie” miners. It is a hybrid,
composed of polo, Rugby football, and golf. Any member
may form the sides, knobbed sticks are the clubs, a
leather-ball the piece de resistance, the usual football
posts are goals. Its chief beauty is in the “on ” and off
side," the unlucky “offs” running the risk of a deliberate
shinner, which either skins or fractures the leg. The
veteran mentioned above was a famous “shinner, and
his stroke rarely failed to main. The pride of an Indian
in his scalps is nothing to the shinty player’s glory in a
long list of shinners.
* # *
Apropos of Miller’s sweeps, a Melbourne police
sergeant pulled off one of the fattest, and it was his ruin.
He invested in an hotel, with a landlady, who died after
an illegal operation. The sergeant was innocent of the
operation, but the affair cost him his billet and left him
penniless.
* " # *
Jim Hall, of Australia, brags ill England that
he can make £5OO a week easily without fighting. The
Referee Warns him to keep his mouth shut, or the
Income-tax Commissioners will be down upon him.
# * *
W. T. Jones, of Melbourne, who won =£4ooo on
Sir Hugo in the Epsom Derby, again backed the horse,
win and place, in the Leger, and came out On the right
side. It is said Jones has lost a heap of money betting in
England.
# • *
Griffo should be warned by Johnell’s fate.
* * - *
The Melbourne tote-men, seemingly, have much
to learn from their Sydney brethren —taken all round, the
cleverest swindlers in Australasia.
• * *
“ So far,” we read, “nothing has been done in
the Maclean district to place a monument over Champion
Searle’s grave.” What has become of the subscriptions
for this purpose (amounting to £l3 or £l4), taken up on
a Parramatta steamer, ever so long ago ?
« # #
Three men, in a Sydney office, who had tickets
in one of “Tattersall’s” smaller sweeps recently each
drew a horse, and one of the “gee-gees” ran second.
Luck?
# * *
It is now quite evident that John L. Sullivan
made a mistake in fighting Corbett in the usual way—he
should have induced him to go and see him act.
• # •
From Age
'lyt/’ANTED, pony - owner, join bookmaker, share
’ ' profits ; good connection. Pony, Age Office.
Just imagine the tvVain driving in the same buggy. What
a cartload of sin 1
* * *
The totalisator should come as a boon if only
to suppress the incessant squeal of the bookmakers which
occurs directly an earnestly backed horse gets home. The
general cry, that Paris was the worst horse on their books
is now out. It's bad enough to lose one’s cash, but that
particular squeal rubs the misfortune in with a vengeance.
The average bookmaker draws so much per day for some
months before the race, spends half of it, and if the
balance won’t suffice to pay the loss and keep him going
in luxury until the next race he bleats like a Munro,
People who shave themselves—which ac* s
is next door to suicide, and ought to be put down
—are invited to render the performance a little
less dangerous to life and limb by sending their
razors to be ground at Messrs. Craig & Aitken’s,
680 and 682 George-street, Sydney, where the
work will be done in first-class fashion, and much
bloodshed thereby averted. This firm also deals
in tobacco and cigars, undertakes to mount pipes
in the best style, and is sole N.S.W. agent for
the “Lounge hair-dressing chair,” and the “Plum
razor,” probably the best article of its kind in the
market, and one of the very few which will
remove the hair without taking the outer cuticle
along with it.
But for the existence of the K.B. Wales
Labour-party, the accused strike-leaders would
have been carried in irons to Deniliquin.
N.S. Wales Lauds Minister Lyne, despite
the recent Supreme Court decision, intends
adhering to ex-Minister Brunker’s policy of treat-
ing certain common lands at Windsor and else-
where as open for selection as special areas. Some
of them will shortly be advertised for sale on the
40-years instalment plan.
Just now is the time when it’s proper to prime your skull
with the odds about 'oases,
And friends to astound with the “ morals” you “found,”
though you say not a word of your losses.
Look wise as a fox when referring to jocks, at bachelor
suppers and dinners,
And nod, now and then, your approval of men who study
the breed 6f the winners.
Yes, now is the season to argue and reason, respecting the
form of outsiders,
Considered together with probable weather and relative
skill of the riders;
There’s the question bf weight, when they come to the
straight; and also you have to remember,
That fillies and mares are delusions and snares, as a rule;
in the month of Novenlber.
Pretend you are able to swear that the “ stable ” have got
On their colt, and allege it
Was a market device; being done at a price; because they
knew well they could “ hedge ” it.
Converse like a hot ’un of “putting the pot on,” and
winning a thou, on Camoola
(Though a pound, at the most, when they get to the post,
is enough if you’re not a damfoola),
With a suit loud and light, and a billycock white, and a
smile that is mystic and knowing,
You will pass very well for a man who can tell the ones
that are sure to be going ;
And a person not up to the cant of the Cup, Which drives
people mad for a minute,
Is a waif and a stray—Ta-ra-ra Boom-de-ay (that is French
for the term “ he ain’t in it.”)


PATENT “PYRAMID’’ & DOUBLE WICK FAIRY LIGHTS.
■M
&
%
‘PYRAMID’ GARDEN LAMP
and Mosquito
Trap*
WEATHER
PROOF.
Every
Verandah
should be
Decorated
with these
Invaluable
Lamps.
GLASSES
IN
VARIOUS
COLOURS.
ğġ
WEATHER
PROOF.
Made in
Two Sizes,
to burn
either
‘ Pyramid *
Lights or
Double-wick
1 Pairy ’
Light s. .i
BEAUTIFUL
EFFECT.
CLARKE’S NEW FLORAL FAIRY LAMPS, J™] af p 2 Jjffjf.
In Beautiful Tinted Glass—Various Colours.
Made in three sizes,,,to burn FAIRY and PYRAMID Lights. This is the most
charming novelty that has yet,been introduced for Decorative rngnung.
CAN BE HAD MOUNTED ON PLUSH STANDS.
CLARKE’S
Registered “ pyramid ” Sight-Right
WATCH HOLDE
|||||*
Ml
Japanned Watch Holder and Burglar Horror Lamp Complete.
Sold by all the leading retail houses.
THE BURGLAR'S HORROR.
oassmtt
WIGHT/ /LIGHT.
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE
PLASTER FIRE PROOF CASE.
THE BURGLAR’S: HORROR-
Single Wicks burn nine hours
each, in Boxes containing Eight
Lights.
Foe Burning in
CLARKE’S ‘Pyramid’
NURSERY LAMP.
CAUTION. -TO PREVENT
BURGLARIES. —A “Pyramid”
Night Light should be lighted in
the back and front of every house
as soon as it is dark. Housebreakers
have the greatest dread of a light.
The police recommend a “Pyramid”
Night Light as the best safe-guard.
Almost all the burglari es perpetrated
might have been prevented and
much VALUABLE PROPERTY
SAVED, if this simple and inex-
pensive plan had always been
adopted. The “Pyramid” Night
Lights are much larger and give
DOUBLE THE LIGHT of the
common night lights, and are there-
fore particularly adapted for this
purpose. Manufactured in Patent
Fire-proof Plaster Cases. No
paraffin or other dangerous material
used in their manufacture.
Lines on Using CLARKE’S Lights.
“ When Nights are Dark,
Then think of Clarke,
Who’s Hit the Mark Precisely;
For ms Night-Lights,
Create Light-Nights,
In which You See quite Nicely.*
—W.E.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: Francis Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st., Melbourne.
For I found myself cheering like blazes and
clutching like mad at the rail,
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Sootliingand invigorating.
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
Wolfe's Schnapps—.£l orders.
Bcwaro of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Mrs. Lee: A Racing Romance.
AS TOLD BY A VETERAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You’ve heard of Jim Lee, of Manaro—a bit of a
sport in his day,
But down on his luck when /knew him, and “stiff
as a board,” so to say.
A gentleman-rider, was Jimmy, before he had
gone to the wall—
But he rode in the Race of Existence a little too
fast not to fall;
A woman, they say, is the author of most of the
troubles we know,
And though I just worship the women, I’m sorry
to think that it’s so.
Some men, in the “sweep matrimonial,” are
destined to chance on a prize,
But many draw “ blanks,” to their sorrow, and
never get further than tries ;
And that was the fault of my hero, in this consul-
tation called Life—
He’d happened to draw for his ticket a wide-run-
ning sort of a wife,
And when he “ went broke ” thi'ough the manner
she’d wasted, and squandered, and spent,
She sloped with a fellow from Melbourne, and
nobody knew where they went.
Poor beggar, I knew he adored her; he’d rather
she’d died would old Jim,
For, when she cleared out with that scoundrel,
his life was a failure to him.
Yes ! liquor’s a poor consolation, I somewhat fall
in with your views,
But ’tis always an awful temptation, and ’specially
s 9 when you lose.
50, Jimmy he couldn’t resist it, he drank ev’ry
cent that he had,
lill|those he’d befriended Would cut him, because
“ he had gone to the bad.”
I fancy, when lamed in the running, ’tis better
, . with horses and men,
lis kinder and better to shoot them and settle it
right there and then.
If ever a mortal has stumbled, and broken his
name in the fall,
Ihere’s few that will bother to lift him, or come
to his aid if he call.
And drink or no drink with Jim Lee, sir, there’s
. one thing I’m bound to aver—
-though human and weak in his sorrow, that
weakness was owing to her.
However, to keep to my story. ’Tis one of a day
vvi t * lat * ias P ast >
” nose subject has got to the finish we all have
u to come to at last.
Bp drank what the bailiffs had left him, and
fp.. lower and lower he got,
Du “ Gentleman Jimmy ” was altered to “Lee,
that unfortunate sot /”
At last he came down to the stables, ’twas there I
fell in with him first,
nd there he first told me his story, the tale of a
Oh he cursed.
h, Friendship’s the pearl of our sorrows, and
jrp. ric " as the pearl is and fair ;
is not to be had for the asking, ’tis precious
■j, because it is rare.
been through the mill, I can tell you, for Life
, has its “ downs ” and its “ ups ”
■ lsn & all winning big prizes and coming in first
And at t l', e T, Cups ’
*u well L id aware of the value to put on a horse
or a matu
Who proves he’s true grit if you want him to stick
A yo^’re *'’ £ rav ® Ul ed ” by Fate.
Ana so, 1 endeavoured to help him, to make him
hold up and keep square :
I felt for my brother in trouble, because, don’t you
see, I’d been there !
And whe , na man’s down on his uppers, and starts
Q on a bit of a bend.
sometimes, on the brink of perdition, he s saved
b V J ust having a friend.
* • • • • •
I’ve known a few knights of the ribbons—l’m
going on now for three score,
And haven’t been far from the stables for some-
thing like forty or more,
But ’midst all the riders of mention—no matter
how famed they may be—
I’ve never met one in the country could sit in the
saddle with Lee.
And that was the reason, I reckon, that after I
sobered him up
They asked him to pilot Mercator, just entered to
run for the Cup.
Poor devil, lie needed no training—his troubles
had made him so thin —
And though heavy odds were against it, I
thought, if lie rode, that he’d win.
. . . . . .
„„ , ... „ , , Tin
1 lie of , tbe races came safely— that Cup I shall
„ never forget,
I'or, Plough it was one of the (Sixties, you 11 see
r „, remember it yet.
I ho scene ! By the Lord, ’tvvas a picture, and one
rp . Biat would glauden and thrill;
I hey crowded the stand and the paddock, they
'Vatohecl on the slope of the hill ; _
ilie girls in their satins and laces all Hitting and
t' n o around,
I he men making bets m the grandstand or smoking
. , cigars m, the ground -
1 fanc - v 1 stl!1 806 tl,cm talking, or nervously
. strolling about, ... , . ,
And hoar the loud buzz of excitement as jockeys
, all( | horses come out- .
Well, right in a beautiful bunch, sir, together,
. they went at the start,
And on tor a furlong they thundered, the ghost of
a second apart. . . ... ,
1 hen, the breed and the training wore tested, and
~ s ,l°' v j y ( V' e * )ace F au , fco , ,
IIJV Butterfly seemed to be failing and Ryan was
(( 0 r?? UI ® Raphael : , T
The Tyrant is leading, by Heaven ! Louisa is
falling away !
That mare is as done as a dinner; M‘Mahon
seems holding the grey.
Black Bess and The Peer are together ! Sir Phelim
just leads Bonny Kate.
John Brown will come on like a bullet as soon as
they enter the straight;
The Queen of the South for a million!—why doesn’t
he give her the spur?
Miss Vixen is out of the running ; I’ve lost a few
hundred on her.”
Around by the bend like the swallows, and home
for the finish they sped ;
I saw as they flashed by the turning that Jimmy
was forging ahead !
“That cursbd outsider is winning!’’ cried some-
body up on the stand.
’Tvvas true, he was short’ning the distance and
coming up hand-over-hand.
“Mercator! Mercator! he’s won it”—l guess I
looked awkward and pale,
As out from the rest like an arrow, all covered
with lather and foam,
A good length ahead of the others, he landed him
safely at home.
I never knew just how it happened— although I
knew well at the start
That Jimmy had sometimes been troubled with
pains (as he said) at his heart.
He went to pull in, I remember, and then, I sup-
pose, that it stopped,
For he reeled in his seat as I watched him, and
swayed for a second, and dropped—
“ What’s up with the first horse’s rider?” I heard
the man next to me say,
As quickly along with the others I rushed to the
spot where he lay.
“ He’s drunk ; no, he’s fainted ; fetch water. The
thing has upset him,” they said.
“ Perhaps over-training—eh. doctor? No, surely !
Good heavens ; Not dead ! ”
“ Failure of heart’s action,” he told them, “ excite-
ment of winning the race
Has brought his disease to a climax. Here, take
him away from the place ! ”
We lifted the body between us, and quickly as
wildfire it spread—
“ Jim Lee who was riding Mercator has fell
from his horse and is dead ; ”
We bore him across to the paddock, and coming
up close to the rail,
I noticed a woman was watching - as silent as
death and as pale.
I didn't at first take much notice, for somehow it
seemed like a dream ;
But just as we passed with poor Jimmy, she cried,
“It is he!” with a scream.
And right in a moment I knew her -the fellow
was close by her side —
And knew that her husband had seen them, right
there at the end of his ride.
But only one man on that racecourse (he wasn’t a
man) besides me,
Who knew that the woman who fainted was,
prooerly called, Mrs. Leo !
Sydney.
EDWIN J. BRADY.
The Melbourne Zoo has four white
kangaroos.
Spagnoletti : “I’ve been lodging at
Malvern, Melb., lately, and turned up a Rip Van
Winkle, one of H.M. soldiers who figured at the
Eureka Stockade, Ballarat. He still gloats over
the fashion in which he prodded and jabbod the
rebels.”
London Daily News, of 16th Aug,, con-
tains a column letter from Marion Disney,
of Brisbane, which thoroughly exposes the b'ack-
labour evil in all its most hideous aspects, that is,
as far as a woman could publicly deal with such
matters.
London Times ;—“ Such a man as Palmer-
ston or Disraeli, in Mr. Gladstone’s position,
would have admitted Mr. Labouchere to the
Cabinet and have thus extinguished him.” This
is what The Bulletin said at the time. See how
they have “admitted” and extinguished G. Re-
publican Dibbs.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
The Bush Workers of Australia, 50,000
strong, intend to tender for contracts in future.
If all the unions would use their funds in that
direction there would be a stirring of dry bones.
Now that about £40,000 has been spent in
buying and fitting up the ship Sobraon as a sub-
stitute for the N.S.W. reformatory hulk, Vernon,
because the latter was pronounced liable to sink
at any moment, somebody has discovered that all
that is the matter with her is a leak which can be
put right for a trifle, and that the hulk is good for
another 20 years. There only needs now a Com-
mission with £2oooor sc of fees to investigate the
blunder and discover that no blame attaches to
anybody, and then the transaction will be com-
plete.
Dear Bulletin, —‘‘Colonel Hobbs, the
traveller, observer, journalist, &c., &c., mentioned
in a recent issue as having deli vered a lecture in
favour of slavery to a Cooktowa audience, is
better known in the Namoi (N.S.W.) district as
“ Cumbo-Gunerah Hobbs.” He got the title in
Gunnedah, where “ the boys ” conspired to take
down the cute, genuine Murkan with an awful
twister about a gigantic blackfellow whose bones
had just been unearthed within the town boundaries.
Dr. Haynes (“You know my brother John?’’)
exhibited the thigh-bones of a horse to the deeply-
impressed “scholar and thinker,”and passed them
off as the remains of the aboriginal terror of the
Namoi—“ Gumbo Gunerah,” concerning whose
terrific proportions and bloody deeds many weird
legends were related to the Colonel. The manner
in which corroborative evidence of the doctor’s
legend sauntered into the Court House Hotel,
promiscuous like, would have aroused suspicion
in any mind less capacious than Hobbs’, but he
stolidly took notes of the “ interesting discovery,”
which duly appeared in the Sydney Mail to the
joy of the initiated.—Cockatoo.
Dear Bulletin, — As a curious instance of
parallelism of literary ideas compare Victor J,
Daley’s “Episode in the Life of a Man of
Pleasure” in a recent issue with Rudyard Kip-
ling’s “In Flood Time.” The first is a story of
Melbourne life, the other a tale of the Indian back
country. Vet in both is the idea of a corpse
rescuing a drowning man. In Kipling’s case, The
Strong Man of Barwhi, the beloved of the head-
man’s sister, is saved by the corpse of his rival,
Hirnam Singh, who was favoured by the woman’s
people. In Daley’s episode, the life of the drown-
ing George Somerville is saved by the dead body
of the woman he had seduced and deserted. The
bed-rock notion is the same in both. Yet Kip-
ling certainly did not copy Daley, and Daley, as
you know, is scarcely the kind of man to plagiarise
from anyone. The coincidence must therefore be
attributed to unconscious parallelism, not con-
scioui plagiarism. Apropos of this, Jerome K.
Jerome tells how he and Conlson Kernahan, the
author of “A Dead Man’s Diary,” were talking
literature with Philip Bourke Marston in the
blind poet’s den. Marston i-ecited a new plot
which lie had just thought out. Jerome mentioned
that he had that very story in MS. in his own
desk at home. Kernahan took down a magazine
from a shelf. There was the story in print.
Kernahan himself had written it some two years
before. Yet all three had been working indepen-
dently.—Steele Grey.


To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
Feel Well —Take Woi.fe's Schnapps.
On the ’bus, smoko G X U N Darlings.
When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps;
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love>
and cooling as his fan.
PEMELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
ĝ
mm
fM
m
'Ss.
m
m
m
m
<i{m
wav
\
\
9 'M>.
mM
w
s
ft !!
Mt*:.
¥•
ie.®
UUJJMdJ
Po
-<v
1
A 3
ytisTTKA An*
S
The Outdoor Patient.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My attendant led the way, and I soon found my-
self in a large waiting-room, where there were
abodt GO men, women, and children, seated on
forms, waiting to ‘ see the doctor. ’
I thought at the time that it would surely bo
very late before all these people could be attended
to by one doctor (it was then nearly 4 p.m.) ; but
when I hoticed ho w frequently the electric-bell
rang, which called in one patient as it dismissed
another, and what a short interval elapsed between
each ring (t«o minutes at the 11103 .1111-. in the
majority of cases barely one), I modified my esti-
mate of the time it would take to ‘ ace them.
I might have been there about 35 minutes, and
during that time the whole of the patients had
passed through one door in answer to the bell, and
out the other, after ‘ sesing the doctor,’ thus
keeping up an almost continuous stream of
patients.
I am inclined to think that the phrase— 4 seeing
the doctor’—used by so many people must have
originated in the administration of the out-door
department of an hospital, as in the majority of
cases they have no time for anything further.
After coming out of the doctor’s room, each
patient went to the dispensary ante-room adjoin-
ing, to wait their turns in having their medicines
made up.
When the last patient had ‘ seen’ the doctor, I
was about to go and try whether the dispensers
could beat the doctor’s record, when a young man
asked me if I could tell him where ho had to take
his prescription to he made up. He came along
with me to the waiting-room, where he sat down
on an unoccupied back form to wait his turn.
He looked ill enough, poor fellow, as he quietly
sat there while the others pushed in front of him.
It was easy to see that this was his first visit, as
most of the patients, after going to the hospital a
few times, form acquaintances among them-
selves, and chat, and enquire after one another s
health. The women especially are fond of
gushingly asking how their fellow patients find
themselves, as it gives them an opportunity to
launch out into full details of their own particular
disorders.
One very small woman was especially loud in
her denunciation of the doctor for not giving
more time to her. I could not help thinking that,
if I were the doctor, I would devote a little extra
time to the ‘softer’ sex; as they will give their
opinions about you, and the men generally accept
your treatment quietly.
‘ I don’t believe he knows what is the matter
with me,’ said the very small woman to an elderly
person sitting next on the form to her.
‘ I don’t suppose he does,’answered the elderly
person, ‘and he won’t give you time to explain, so
that he may know. 1 had no sooner started to
tell him how I felt, when he pulled the bell-rope ;
and told me to keep on with the medicine, after I
had distinctly told him it was doing me no good!
One might die before he finds out what is the
matter with them,* she added angrily.
‘ I do wish he would examine me,’ said the very
little woman, wistfully, ‘because when I was so
ill last time the doctor who attended me said that
if ever ——■ She finished the sentence in a
whisper in her companion’s car, who forgot her
anger in her interest, and no doubt related her
own experiences in similar trying periods, as
there was afterwards a good deal of whispering
between them.
By what bits of conversation I overheard
going on round me, I could understand that the
majority were not at all satisfied with their
treatment. They mostly complained about the
little time the doctor gave them ; and remem-
boring how long it took him to attend to about 60
pafaents, I could not but think that they had good
grounds tor grumbling.
As they talked among themselves while their
prescriptions were being made up, I noticed that
the young man who had spoken to me was still
sitting alone. I crossed over, remarking as I took
a seat beside him, that the dispensers were not
so quick at their work as the doctor was at his.
‘ No, indeed,’ he answered. ‘ They would have
to be very sharp to come within coo-ec of him.’
I enquired if th’s was the first time ho had been
to the hospital, and he answered ‘ Yes.’
‘You have seen the doctor, of course. Did he
tell you what was the matter with you V
4 1 saw ths doctor for less than two minutes,’
he answered. ‘ When I went into his room he
could see I was a new patient, and asked me
what I thought was the matter with me. I told
him how I felt, thinking that he would sound me
and ascertain, but he graciously took my word for
it all, and tcribbled out a prescription for me to
get made up, and an order for a plaster for my
back—to strengthen it, he said—and pulled the
bell-rope for another patient.’
‘Perhaps he knows what is the matter with
you, and has given you medicine for it,’ I said.
4 But I am sure lie docs not. He merely knows
what I t old him—that I had a severe pain in the
small of the back—nothing more. It might be
lumbago, or a kidney complaint, or simply a
strain ; and he should have examined me to find
out which. When I came here,’ he added,
bitterly, ‘ I thought I should have received proper
advice for whatever particular disorder I suffered
from ; and not treatment for anything and every-
thing, in a wholesale manner.’
4 Perhaps the next time you come the doctor
will have more time to spare,’ I suggested,
4 1 think not,’ ho answered ; ‘ for when I got the
order I was told to come to-day, and he would
have time to attend to me, as this was not a busy
day.’
4 Who gives you the order ?’ I inquired,
4 Either a subscriber to the hospital or a magis-
trate.’
4 Do you have any trouble to get an order ?’
4 Trouble ! he repeated. ‘ I should think so !
Although the hospital is alleged to be built for the
benefit of indigent people, yet when I wont to get
an order signed by a magistrate, he looked upon,
and treated me as one who had no right to expect
any help, or to bother him, and kept me running
after him for three days before he could find it in
his heart to sign the application. Why,’ ho con-
tinned, ‘ should there be any more trouble 1 o get
admission to the hospital doctors for out-door
advice than there is to get permission to take
books out of the Public Library? Sickness is not
so pleasant that many people will care to
ape it, and lose half a day every time they come
here. The people pay for both institutions, why
should they not have free access to them \ It is
the first time I have used an institution of this
kind, sir,’ he went on, after a while ‘although
I am a native of the place, and have been taxed
for many years to keep them going—but I vow it
will he the last! If ever I am ill again and cannot
pay for a doctor to attend mo, I will give the
coroner a job in preference to the hospital!
He said this with a heightened temper, cor-
tainly—but not with any effort or dramatic effect
—as one who uttered what he really meant.
It was getting late now, so I left him, There
were still about twenty patients waiting for their
medicine - all men. I had noticed that the women
never thought of taking their turns,' but pushed
on to the front. In fact, they were invited to do so
(not that they wanted the invitation) by a young
clerk, with a long curl "on alow forehead, in direct
contradiction £o the notice posted on the walls—
‘ Patients must take their turns.’
As I turned to go I wondered if, on the Day of
Judgment, the cry will be —‘ Ladies first!’
In passing out of the hospital, these words on a
white marble tab’et, fixed in the hall, caught my
eye
AND NOW ABIDETH
FAITH, HOPE, CHARITY,
THESE THREE,
BUT THE GREATEST OF THESE IS
CHARITY,
The following cholera-cure and essay on
things in general lias just come to hand from
North Queensland. It is published here, partly
because of its daring originality, partly to demon-
strate that a naked blackfellow shouldn’t be
allowed to'sit on the sugar, and partly as a solid
evidence that underdone leper isn’t a good thing
to have for a late supper
Editor Bdletixe, — As a cure for cholera i would sugest
kerocene taken inwardly, it will destroy disoas gearms
wherever it conies in contact with them, the gearms of
Cholera live in the sthomac and intestines. liberal doses
of kerocene would instantly destroy them-very likely it
would answer in oases of Typhod fever as well (a number
of athelects have died of typhus—an athelect has no fat
on his inside to resist the ravages of this disease), if you
think my theory good makeit public, itwoulddepriye those
ignorant ghouls called doctors of a lot of their victims, in
the maner those sintific owles pretend to cure diseases by
inoculating the sufferer with another disease, they will soon
have the white ra e a mass of disesed corruption and
themselves millionares. their treatment of malarial
fevers and other diseases with mercury genuine and other
rubbish leaves the sufferer a total wreck, a sure cure for
malarial fever is to eat plenty of Lemons or drink their
juice in water especially on an empty stomac it destroys
the fever germs. Dont you think tbo southern authori-
ties should start quarntining people from Queensland
hardly a day passes but fresh cases of leprosy are re-
ported. the authorities arc doing all they can to keep it
dark it is one of the blessings of coulored labour, if the
people saw the shuggar is handled in the mills by perfectly
nacked niggers suffering from lung disease and ode cases
of leprosy, they would not use much shuggar in their tea
diseased niggers chows javanees singlees work in the
mills bagging finished shuggar (being a light job) they
squat down on the heap of shuggar and scoop it into the
bags with their paws, those with diseased lungs coughing
and spitting all over the shuggar when they knock off
work they stand up and scrape off the shuggar sticking
to their bodies back on to the heap of shuggar the
Government appoint inspectors to see that things are
done right. The planter pays the saime inspector to see
nothing, which he does willingly, if an outsider report
the abuses carried on, the inspector denys it. that settles
it. A policera-in and tracker were escorting a chow suf-
fering from leprosy from to they camped near
Georgetown one night, a camp of black was handy the
poleice took the chow to the blacks camp and shot him
(authorities instructed him to do so) and maide signs to
the blacks to burn the body, and went to their own camp
and turned in. in the morning they went to see if the
chow- was burned they found that the blacks had rested
the chow and eat him and what was left they were having
for breakfast, since that time a number of blacks in that
district have been found to be suffering from leprosy,
they were hunted up and shot by the authorities —
GimiooLF.Y O’Grunt.
Smith, ML. A., recently favoured the
Yic. Assembly with some stuff that he called
“the following lines,” and which the Age de-
scribed as “amusing doggerel.” Smith’s parlia-
mentary poem is'appended I
There’s a gentleman cognomened Do\t,
Whose heart is in a flutter.
Where e’er he speaks: both then and now,
His theme is always butter.
This entertaining gentleman called Dow,
Since aide e’en to mutter,
Would tell his friends, both then and now;
His bead was full of butter.
This gentleman whom we call Dow—
Mark you, be does not stutter—
With fluency will ever mow,
Come list to my tale of butter.
The electors of South Melbourne will please re-
member that Smith is paid at the rate of =£4 a
night for the time the House is sitting.
There’s a person known by the historic name of Smith,
Who ought to be carried to the cemetery, as soon as
possible, on a cold, cold shutter,
Followed by an omnibus, a dray, thirteen cabs, and a
mud-cart, containing all his legislative brethren as
well as his sorrowing kin and kith,
if lie writes any nlore amusing doggerel abm.it butter.
The Sydney Morning Herald, in a recent
sub-leader, said that the Australian public had
not that regard for literary ability cr learning
which would breed in Australian youth the spirit
of self-denial in the pursuit of learning which
marked older nations. Which reminds us that
some years ago a lad of 10 was employed as cashier
by Hordern Bros., Sydney. He yearned for in-
tellectual excellence, and determined to attain it.
In three years he amassed =£so and sufficient learn-
ing to pass tlie matriculation examination. He
then bade adieu to drapery and high living, and
for three years lived by himself in a small room
which was at once his kitchen, bedroom and study.
During this time he graduated as B. A. He soon
discovered that this degree was of little use to him
in the race for wealth, so, though penniless, ho
determined to enter one of the learned professions,
choosing that of medicine. To accomplish this
he had to spend his nights, or the best part of
them, in coaching, an occupation as poorly paid ns
it is wearisome. Despite his poverty and the
limited amount of time he could devote to his
own reading in a course which makes such
heavy demands upon the time of the student, he
narrowly escaped winning the gold medal at the
final M.B. Ch. M. examination. Lying in an
Australian hospital is the wreck of a gallant
young fellow —a gold-medallist and double-honour
man, knocked one in a similar fight against Nature
and penury. Of great ambition and extreme
poverty he followed the same course of privation
and self-denial. He was too proud to take advant-
age of the regulation enabling poor students to
forego payment for lectures, and how he managed
to meet these heavy expenses and at the same
time buy books, food, and clothing is known only
to himself. His success was phenomenal, but he
paid dearly for it. The privations he went
through completely shattered his fine constitution,
and he now endures sufferings from which death
only can release him.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
m
k
w
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT^V
y
h
/*
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM!.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Tains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of. producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fur
postage. .
Address.- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
LADIES
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
and favourably known as a successful specialist
in all Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address Mita. G. WOOD, 165 Berkley
Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
The Marvel of the Age!
Wi
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cures “ Barcoo Rot ’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Farmers
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Depot: Wholesale:
202 Oxford St., Paddington. Australian Drug Co.
DEAF
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drums. Relieves noises,&c.
in the head. Cures Deafness;
Send for book and particu.
lars. Address the Sole
Agent : A. M. NAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne.
Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
%
$
&
fa
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE-
UNDERVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jacsrer’s Sanitary Woo’len System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
Mo Kicking*.
Easy Shooting-, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3«. Gel. <Sc 5 s 6ci.
&
-
«
K
3s. 6 cl. & 5s. 6d.
G. H. SMITH & SON,
SOLE AGEf
Gr. H. & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pltt-street to
Cast I ereagh-,street),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
r £m
113 Ta!
f
'ht
w
r
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
j\|anctgei[,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
Medical.
WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
&
4)
PATENT
PILLS.
w
*
&
$
35
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous dis inters,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
iufferer ia earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable 1
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost eomplexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ’ tes ined
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecbam's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech am’s
Magic
Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &C-, these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bebcham a ; Couau
Pints a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere. . , ,
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the and lafe,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
-THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
Foster Motlaers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms: SI Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. IST" Pur-
chasers should _ look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
suurious.
V. \ V
m
mmu/m
»:
22
$
G
NIBS
S.T
THE ONLY 1
RELIABLE
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
3E3C. d^L.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
SELF CBSROENCT
Young Men, who have lost this most essential
element of "success, from any cause whatever, and suffer
from Private Nervous and Skin Diseases, producing
hap. fulness, toant of energy, nervousness, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay, head-
ache, gicUUncss, liver and kidney complaints, pimples,
weak stomach, impure blood, contagious diseases, (tc.,
should send for Dr. M. Perry's work on Nervous De-
bility. It will describe their case most minutely,
and point out, with unerring accuracy, the best
means of rapid and effectual cure, without
MERCURY OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’tlin. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “ Hread-
nought,”
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr.
PERRY,
Xi«S«A«, &o«,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Makes a
Speciality
of Private NER-
VOUS & Skin Diseases.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
'Glandular Enlargement*
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY AND PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in
Dr. Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to
how this most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most
perfect modern Electric Appliances for pains or
weakness in any part of the body. He supplies a
Genuine Electric Belt, from which the current
can be distinctly felt, for £l. Electric Baths for
Consulting Patients.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. dally.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m.
on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address—lsl Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra,
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
4 Price Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Posted
to any English address for Is. lOd. in stamps.
Glasco
rTJ£
f
SKY, j
Menzie
COW
DRINK
“AULI
SDOTTIE”
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYBMV.
Business Announcements.
A
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
81s. to 14s. 6<l. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-FAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street
Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
"THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.”
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, liirht-lookimr chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
Sole Aarents:
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN.
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 tt 683 George Street, Syrtuey.
ALLT'S
SPARKLING
ALE.
a
o
-V
<
a
*
o
o
c
T
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarixie!
pgr The Lightning Moustache Producer. ISi
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CRAIG A AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Ask for
ao s
tut
AGENTS !
DeLissafc Phillips,
Barrack St., Sydney.
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America anf
Canada, and can oiler special facilities for dealhf
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial an
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained o»
Sydney Branches:
£2,400,000
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


“AKTTIOXTT A..”
XIOR Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A -certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authoii-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers throughout the
colony, or from H. LEICESTER, 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.W. for “Anticuta"
Company,
"Vf OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, h •ml.unth, 1890.
UNDER COM I Ei'ITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BAR-; of SPIERS and BONDS, L».
Dewar’s Wlxlslsy.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
0
Sydney Agents; ... ... CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
HUDSON BROTHERS, LDP®
CWDB
I
CHAMBER
Clyde Works, Granville,
iN.S.W.
The “CLYDE” K CHAFFCUTTERS.
Made in three sizes, with or without Sieve-gear.
FRAMES OF BEST POLISHED BLACKWOOD.
No better Chaffcutters have ever been made, and with our
Korsegears to match, thevform plants impossible to beat.
FOR THE HARVEST SEASON:—
New “Clyde” Damp-weather Strippers,
New “Clyde” Improved Winnowers,
AND
g ğ
Binders,
UVE owera.
Ensure the rapid and economical handling of any crop.
We Make and Stock every kind of Farm Imp ement. *®i
NO PITY. CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
O, *' O'
K. A, Hcrvcy, Agent, 144 llsueace* l J . Sidney.
///
>llll
IM
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
"lobkr Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Mi
tVMWlM’ > lillipft.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS.
&0. f &C.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDKTEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Bock Breakers.
Wfstinglionse Engines.
R*l
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay -street °" , “ 1 Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
g
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
(V
It
