

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
ICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST 11ST THE MARKET
AXD
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SUPPLIED TO THE PPIXCIPAL CLUBS IV SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 G-eorge-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. G-. WATKINS & 00., 107 Kent Street, Sydiney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILIDEES’ & (3- IE ZUT TB lEL -A_ Xj Y.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
gptJjEg^
o
s>.
O
N
h>
O
o
<*.
AISJt
33 og’s UESIo^cS.
ALE & STOUT
JULES REMARD &
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
r*.
2
i
o aJ
fH£
o(*S
s*i
THE
sar*&S
ffepjE
El
h4-a
MknsuSi
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
MESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby'an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
TALES of the cqmICT SYSTEM.
PRICE —ONE SHILLING.
j. SZ, C. HOWARD.
„ , _ . Tvr fiW Sontli Wales for Messrs. Clayton and. Slinttlewortla.
Sole Agents xrx -
Compound PortaDlk Engine, with-aufomatie expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
I
zj- UKCOIK \ J|£gj
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Special! y built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. XW Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
c. Howard, 2802 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The Bulletin
Vol 12 N 660.]
[Saturday, October 8, 1892.


NO
In
the
Rup-
like l>r.
Klaslie
Truss has
ands of
springs.
TRUSS
World will Retain
ure or give Belief
erce's Magnetic
russ. This Celebrated
adically cam! thous-
, No Iron Hoops or Steel
It can bo worn with ease and comfort
Kight and May. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mad.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet Ho. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,Sanßraneisco,Cal.
Or Washington IX, Soul & Co., 160 Piit St,
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
m
CIS
w/f
EMBROCATIONy^y
R
5S
a
iHI
(/
IV
w
ŵ
ẁ
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The Sydney Bum.kttx
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (passable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
ẃ
ẅ
w
Wholesale Agents;
LANGE THONEMAN,
MKLIiOI St y E.
MEN
W
HY WILL YOU SUFFER from
. . NERVOUS WASTING and
DEBILITATING DISEASES which
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN-
HOOD ? You may now cure yourselves
without CONSULTING a DOCTOR.
Send Sis Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing- the
French method of QUICK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-CURE.
Address: Parisian Agency Co., Bos 766, Sydney.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS aid INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.E.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Fh.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
JSB, RIBGE’S SGYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
D 3 lissa
and PHILLIPS,
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
M ANHOO X>.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In tour Weeks by ike use of
m record's
Tne only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Laed.or a quarter of a century with unparalleled
n u "P rec edented success throughout the world.
tluTieledZld Imf'T °I Li S'stores manhood to the most
thatteied and debilitated constitutions . regenerating all the
important elements of hie human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
,//\ CCIS d S °Sj 2 t s -' °r four quantities in one for j6s. Freight
ArenL?fT h i S /T ° n ’ CCeift °d' stam Ped addressed envelo/e
s^{fc&ZZ las,a ~ rtrrv * c '-' ™ Gert "‘ d ‘
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FE RR H,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Scant Gmr MATTEI’S
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIH S,
Cure CANCER, Ansemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Celebrated
EAU DE COLOGNE
Is Unequalled for its Strength and
Delightful Fragrance. It far sur-
passes the numerous compounds sold
under the same name.
Of all Dealers (tnd of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON,
v Trade Mark—“ White Rose" cn “Golden
A, _ Lyre,” with Address in full. jt.
w
G£iM T'S B
lt
ELECTRIC BELTS.
TTN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
8 of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet be feels it a necessity to
press, upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, Ac. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of £'2—
registered letter, post-order, or cheque. When order hi"
Belt send waist measure above the hips. °
Druggist. H. P. SABIEL, Chemist.
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 7S Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
For Consumption use
fgitmt * Sons
#
0
m
!#
£
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTI
EXTRACT IN THE WORIO
Manufactory:
Cootamnndra, M.S.W*
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid,, to
anv of the Australasian colonies.
bit’s “PiSMt SMI” Wyftss til
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, Ac.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUENZA,
always keep a bottle of Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil hy you and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
TXj is Sb Gr&irmch. Kill or.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser—a few drops mixed
with water —and steam the apartment. INHALE THE STEAM if there be
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles,
(••)
Dr. BRENDON GURGEN YEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.”
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “ J. Bosisto, Richmond,” are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for
BOSISTO’S PARROT BRALETD.
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN PEACH),
'PPe Brighton of 3XTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mfs. IBZlXa]VEl]\rS a X a !E>r : l .... Proprietress.
ŵ
438 8c 500 GEORGE STREET.
r RA OSASA RK
RiS
m
Avmi
A.nstral Clothiers.
Gent.’s Cape Overcoats-25/- to 47/6.
Gent.’s Chesterfield Overcoats—ls/6 to 30/-.
Gent.’s “Austral” Business Suits 27/6
to 50/-.
Gent.’s D. T. Black Parramatta Cape Water-
proof Coat—3o/- to 55/- (sewn seams, and
guaranteed).
OUR CELEBRATED
H.R.H WHITE SHIRTS
(made by Welch, Margefcson & Co.)
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.
25/6, 33/-, 37'6, 42/-, 45/-,
the Half Dozen.
Gent.’s Silk Umbrellas 8/6 to 45/-.
MERCERS, HATTERS, and. JUVENILE CLOTHIERS.
vNtf
SE
SR
Js. Always fhe- Best
<<
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
»
By “ PRICE WARUN.G.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
BOX 1034 GP O
Inspection Invited..
TELEPHONE 9T3.
"W_ & SONS
FRO m:
THEIR
RECEIVE WEEKLY
SHEFFIELD M AKTXTF ACTOR
ALL THE CHOICEST DESIGNS IN
ELECTRO-PLATE and CUTLERY GOODS.
S.W A MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION, SUITABLE FOR
SP OPTS, PRESENTATIONS, SHIP, CLUB, HOTEL and FAMILY USE,
ALWAYS ON VIEW AT THEIR SHOW-ROOMS :
EMPIEE CHAMBERS—@3 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at London. Edinburgh and Melbourne.
SPOONS & FORKS
SPOONS & FORKS


Cough in 10 Minutes.
He most Safe and Speedy Remedy
INFLUENZA, GOUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, Ac.
IN THE nursery it is invaluable.
immediately it is taken Coughing
Peases Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
** r TOHNSTON, G.N.R. Office, Bellceh, Go: Fer-
"i, writes • My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.-July. 1891.
, g o id hy all Chemists at Is. lid. and2s.9d.
ared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
“ - T'tttatt'Rpcb S ITrnri’wrrKrn Ar r*A
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
took, of
3NT rttviro.
w
Book of IKTa/fc-u.:** e.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
itruoture and uses of the organs of life and generation in
aan and woman, intended especially for the married,
jr those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
md honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
md nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
Jdded A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
liseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
nfection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4 /., jhe art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6. Dancing without a master—Ball-
room Guide and Self-instructor, by Prof. Peltzer, 1/3.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every 7 man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. 1!. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
'EM',
The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
AND
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
'Ry Retail Agency— J. S. Abraham, Chemist, Georgest,
_Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
r
i
v^ciEsr-
ES:
'irrrtv^J
Larth
Sole Agents—
& Wine & Spirit Co., Limited,
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking-
Treasury Gardens .
Grated iro7>^
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
to, 10s. Special arrange
BEKER, Manager, The
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
w
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PfilCE Is
In Btftinpa,
cro-
.A., M. 8.,
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
.^? r * s reputation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, tOjbe appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
irnysician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a_ Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows: 1 hat the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate with his fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
oi nis past folly.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS:-
Am i subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Hack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Feeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Peeling During the Day, Pains in the
Back; Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Pits,
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small PAMPHLET BUT A
LARGE BOOKCONTAININGMANYPAGESofPRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY. This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
for ±1 Is. Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, &c., &c., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
TV- H‘ , Kelly ' A* 10 ' s a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
Monday ,
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday..
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m,
~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
ADDRESS DR# H. KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STEEET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT,
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
m
.Jl K/* '
»tsa
■&Z
m
&*A
l
mm
*K
slg*J
4B
s§r
- :9&SiSrJ
m
a
L tkH y^
fewr*-
■MI
31l
: >:
i«tw
k*°
pi’
3
S^p?
&
«=
/-
S"H
isf
'. r :*: -
;^v
y^.
y*r«
-«r
v,v»
THE
LIGHT-RUNNING
m
Latest and most important improvements!
AUTOMATIC TENSION.
ENLARGED BOBBIN.
AUTOMATIC BOBBIN WINDER.
DOUBLE FEED. EXTENSION TABLE.
HIGH ARM. SELF-SETTING NEEDLE.
Simply Perfect I Perfectly Simple I
Before buying any other send for Circular.
Ask your Storekeeper to get you one
from
J. I. Johnston & Co.
54 Bourke St-, Melbourne.
748 GrEORG-E ST., SYDNEY.
167 Queen St., Brisbane.
‘ TALES OF the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE : Is. ; Per Post, Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome hU
friends and patients, during his consulting hour%
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m&jm
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak*stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-ROUND
LOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
YOUS DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be fouryi a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE,


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
85 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed JE1,000,000
L-AIR-CKE ZBOINTTJ^JES
AND
Sir.CU^XTir
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
advt
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Maxaukh for Australia—M7 1 . J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE
Bass
IPale Ale
STREET, SYDNEY
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
Ills
uimmoiEio
ISade mAWi®
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
Grviinnesa’ Extra, Stout,
SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without aiiy delay.
WIL
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
of the
BOROUGH OF REDFER 3NT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &o.
' STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
Plum
5
THE
‘ Plum 5
TI1H1S brand of Razor is something superior to anything tiiat has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee ertch razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price - £l n * le |^ azor > j 11 strong leather case, 10s. 0d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania , Is extr a ‘
advt
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GEORGE STREET, _ SYUKTEY.
Cleaverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, COTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
T\R. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Pii.D., P.1.C., F.C.S.
n
w>
1
m
50
BAKER and ROUSE,
MANUFACTURERS and MERCHANTS in PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
375 GIEOnGE STREET, SYDNEY <uext A..I.S. Bauk)
256 COLLINS STREET
69 BUNDLE STREET
40 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
Wild A-iistralia!
■Wild Queensland,!
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland”
-BY-
A. M B S T O N.
ILLUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer, called the “ Terrible Rite.”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia,
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia—Hunting, Fighting
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “ BoorooP’ (Bora) ceremonies. b>
it-T The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century !
Will 4ppear in Brisbane, Sidney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Tasmania, and N. Z.
I3XT NOVEMBER.
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD !
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAYWELL & 00.
depot
marvel
to B A C C O
5?o
CgOflCE S r
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons 7 Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE HJ
Ported several times DAILY in the Building".
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES ox the PREMISES.
'>
■
mtd
aiMk
«■ J
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Lleganb
illiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention tc
Billiard _ _
visitors. E3T Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day. Special Hates for Families,
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - . Proprietors.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (IS years in the establishment).


The Bulletin
Vol- 12-No. 660.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1892.
Price, 64,
f,r
ŵ
“K tttos o iirVttaV
w *
/x
' P
AFTER THE N.S.W. POLITICAL “CRISTS.”
BOTH —“ But, Lord `! You just ought to see the other fellow!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for tho Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum .£lO 0
Half-yearly ... 0126
Quarterly. ...i 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty
tilings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Punt Office Order, One Pound
Note, or slumps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
'This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and coll Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor ivill carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column ail contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that u-e are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the'office of ini British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future ivill be £l, with 3s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There ivill be no exception to this rule.'
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1892.
Out of Chaos; What?
The Freetrade papers of Sydney have, in accord-
ance with their usual ridiculous custom after
any voting test, betaken themselves to a series of
complicated mathematical calculations, designed
to prove that the ordinary rules of arithmetic
do not hold good when their application happens
to indicate that if you place four Opposition
votes against six Government ones, two will
remain as the Government majority. In con-
nection with the “no confidence ” crisis of last
week there were three divisions taken in the
N.S. Wales Legislative Assembly. The result
of the first of these gave the Government a
majority of 30, the numbers being 82 to 52.
The second gave the Government a majority of
62, the difference between 99 and 37. The
third produced a Government majority of 4, the
voting being 68 to 64. Thus in three divisions
the Government had a majority each time.
From these facts and figures the Foreign-trade
dailies, with an ingenuity worthy of Bed-
lam, manage to arrive at the conclusion
that, on the whole and by an entirely
new system of averages, the Government
were in a minority of 12. This frantic
remainder is arrived at by an involved and
complicated aberration, termed by one journal
“pooling” the divisions, but which, as a matter
of course, was really something entirely different.
If the votes were pooled, it would appear that
402 votes were cast, of which 249 were recorded
in favour of the Government, and 153 against,
showing, in a gibbering sort of way, a majority
of 96 for the Administration. This method of
topsy-turvey calculation working out the wrong
way, the Opposition journals were afflicted
with the crazy alternative of simply counting
how many members voted, one time or another,
against the Government, adding them up,
omitting to do the same the contrary way, and
then finding out how many voted with the
Government all through, and striking a hare-
brained balance. It is almost a pity that
there were not forty divisions instead of
only three, each division being upon a subject
entirely unrelated to any other. In such case
any lunatic could doubtless have figured that
out of 132 voting members 765 or so had no
confidence in the Government.
* * *
The facts of the case would need no com-
mentary had not the public mind been exposed
to the bewilderments of the mathematical
delirium of the dailies. The Government won
two emphatic and easy victories, and, after a
desperate battle, just managed to win a third.
Individually considered, not one of the three
divisions was decided on any definite principle.
But the outcome of the entire business lias
unquestionably been to weaken the Goveni-
meut, previously considerably shaken by the
dissatisfaction of the most resolute and deter-
mined among the protectionists who constituted
their genuine support. These are a body of
men wielding most powerful influence with the
constituencies generally, and without their con-
fidence and adhesion the Cabinet cannot hope
to repel another attack. But, as if it were not
sufficient to alienate the affection of so neces-
sary a contingent, the Ministry has now
managed to create a feeling of repulsion
in the minds of the democratic section
of their quondam adherents. The sym-
pathies of the entire Australian working
population are absolutely and unreservedly
on the side of the miners. Bui the sympathies
of members of the New South Wales Govern-
ment, so far as they have found expression,
have—save in the case of Postmaster-General
Kidd, who doesn’t count for much, and who
appears to have been snubbed into silence by
his colleagues—been obviously adverse to the
men. In the entire debate on Mr. Cann’s
amendment, which, from the moment it was
moved, really extinguished Mr. Reid’s motion,
there was not one word, or one tone, proceeding
from a Minister which indicated any feeling for
the Broken Hill employes. It was impossible
to escape the impression that when claiming
credit for having provided for the maintenance
of “ law and order,” Ministers meant to inti-
mate that they had the welfare of the mine-
owners foremost in view. The members of the
Government, like Pharaoh, hardened their
hearts. They turned for help, in the hour of
stress, in the direction whither their true
sympathies tended. Their political magnetism
had its positive pole towards the Employers’
Union, and its negative pole towards Labour.
They appealed to the former, they war with
the help of the former, and with consistent dis-
cretion or indiscretion the salvo of words with
which they hailed their victory proceeded from
the lips of Sir Georde Dibbs in sound like a
report from the National Association : “The
Government has been saved by a majority in
favour of law and order.”
* * #
Even the much-advertised financial difficulties
of the province furnish no sort of apology for
this falling away. It could not have affected
the money market had Ministers shown that
they recognised the infamous breach of faith
perpetrated by the silver companies of Broken
Hill and appreciated the wrongs inflicted on
the miners. It would not have lowered deben-
tures sensibly had Ministers even emphatically
let it be understood that they deprecated the
wretched falsehood by which the mine-owners
dodged out of the arbitration provided for by
agreement, and it would have mattered but
little if it had. It could scarcely have involved
the country in calamity had they indicated that
they thought that theexposure to blood-poisoning
which is inseparable from work in the Broken
Hill mines should be recognised in the wages
given, and that the purpose of squeezing down
the rates by competitive tenders was repugnant
to them. There is no possible interpretation-to
be put upon their cold silence on these heads,
especially when coupled with their fervent
appeal for help from anti - labour sources,
except that they had no such feelings
in their breasts, no such thoughts in their
minds. The consequences which have been
thus rendered inevitable have found no expres-
sion in any of the “no confidence ” divisions.
They are yet scarcely developed, but they are
moving towards realisation. That realisation
will be a division of parties, based upon genuine
interests and aspirations, different entirely from
the present and past alternation of the powers
and sweets of office between rival syndicates,
not to be distinguished by any distinctiveness
of principles, but merely by the name of Bosses.
There will be no more Robertsonites and
Parkesites in the not far distant future. There
will be Conservatives and Democrats, and these
will not fence but fight. They will not play
with patches of legislation; they will carry
principles into law.
“The Bulletin’s” Ghostly Comforter.
The following remonstrance has reached us
from a clergyman in the wilds of Central
Queensland :
“It has been so ordained that I have been called upon to
tend a flock, as an itinerant parson, in a region far out in
the Central provinces of Queensland. It is with some
reticence, yet with anxious desire, that I write you this
note, calling your attention before it is too late to the
somewhat harsh, immoral, and irreligious sentiments that
many of your articles abound with. Let me tell you that
in my little district your paper has had for some time
past the greatest call. During the last four years I have
noticed, with very much concern, when endeavouring to
perform my duty faithfully and humbly, among the
younger generation more markedly, an apparent irre-
legions bent, a boastful, self-satisfied spirit, and an out-
rageous manifestation of disloyalty to the throne of our
motherland, together with all its noblest institutions;
and this I attribute principally to many of the articles in
your paper. It seems to me that with a little more care
in the wording of the articles, your very ” (marmalade
omitted) “paper might become a great power for good.—l
am, respectfully yours, (district-vicar).”
# * *
The Bulletin has received many cheering
letters at different times and from many diverse
sources, bub it has received few so distinctly
encouraging as the above. The accusation of
our reverend correspondent practically amounts
to this—that the great virtue of reverence is
dying out in the land, and that The Bulletin
is largely instrumental in promoting its decease.
And as this is exactly the object which we have
had in view for the past 12 years we are glad
with a great and profound joy to know that our
efforts have not been in vain. The world has
been loaded down with reverence and alleged
piety ever since the beginning of history and
the first dawning of tradition. The human
race has always been grovelling before some
fetich or other. It has bowed itself to the sun
and the planets ; it has assumed an attitude of
profound respect towards cats, snakes, devils
and onions ; it has revered the horses with the
golden shoes which saved the great Rameses
from destruction, and the animal which
Caligula raised to the dignity of a consul, and
the Republican whom Queen Victoria made into
a K.C.M.G., and Al-Borak, the steed of
Mahomet, and the Sacred Cow, and the dust
of its own ancestors, and Confucius, and the
(lead monarchs of Assyria, and Buddha
Siddhabtha, and that goriest monster of all
history, Ivan the Terrible, and the Popes, the
Inquisition, all the kings of Asia and Europe,
Mumbo Jumbo, Dagon, Baal, the House of
Lords, the squire, the landlord, the capitalist,
the money-lender, the Orange Lodge, the
priests, parsons, deacons, and hangers-
on of the modern Church, the toe of St.
Peter, the blood of St. Januaries, the frag-
ments of the alleged true cross, the place from
which Providence took the dust out of which
Adam was constructed, the well that Joseph
was thrown into, Matthew Davies, Pastor
Be van, the bottle which contained some of the
darkness that Moses spread over Egypt, the
stump of Wales’s dead cigar, Brigham Young,
Joe Smith, prophet and inspired horse-thief.
General Booth, the howling dervishes, the
mediaeval saints who never washed themselves,
the saints who ate mud, the holy men of India
whose feet are turned backwards over their
heads or whose bodies are otherwise horribly
distorted, the indecent hermits who wore no
clothes, and several thousand other relics,
dirty men, mandarins, chunks of wood, mud-
holes, worms, idiots, and sundries. And—-
what is more to the point—it reverences a
good many of them to this day.
# # *
The world, in fact, since the beginning of
history, has contained as much reverence,
as much “piety,” and as much loyalty as
there was standing-room for upon its surface.
It has been choke-full of these virtues. It has
been loyal and reverent towards almost every-
thing that was brutal, foul, debasing, villain-
ous, and ignorant. The very basis of reverence
is faith, and the essence of faith is the art of
believing without question, without reason, or
contrary to reason, any statement however
improbable or disgusting that is grey with age
prop and stay of Brahmihism, Mormonism,
and hallowed by tradition. Orthodox Religion is
built on the eternal dogma that it is impious to
doubt or to inquire into anything that is accepted
by the Church, and this same dogma is the
royalty, hereditary nobility, holy water,
papal infallibility, slavery, witchcraft, the
doctrine that the world is flat, and every
other variety of delusion. There is hardly any-
thing of an offensive nature, from polygamy
and the doctrine that dirt and holiness are
synonymous terms, downwards, that some
church or other has not endorsed, and but for
irreverence, which is the holiest of all things,
these dirty traditions would have been sacred
for all time. The Bulletin has done its best
to follow in the footsteps of the grandest re-
formers of history by being utterly irreverent—
by encouraging an utter disrespect for the
money-grubber who occupies the British throne
to-day, and the race of pimps and drunkards
who occupied it in the past; for the
brewers, land-stealers, and legal cormorants
who make up the bulk of the British and Aus-
tralian legislatures ; for the English established
church, whose ministers are content to accept
their appointments from land-owners who
figure in the police-court and the prize-ring and
other places of still worse repute, and who
grovel to these malodorous characters for their
patronage ; and for the churches of Australia
which endorse Kanaka slavery, and preach about
the joys of poverty, and abase themselves to
capitalism in every industrial dispute for the
sake of the collection-plate. And, still with
the same purpose in view, it has consistently
held in loathing the affluent “ Christians ” who
run bogus banks and fraudulent finance com-
panies, who despoil widows and orphans and are
snuffled over by the Church when their ill-deeds
come to light; it has cursed the rich because
no man can grow rich under existing conditions
without stealing the fruit of other men’s labours,
and the holders of titles, because no one can get
a title unless he abases himself to those in high
places ; and it has jeered at the great principle
of reverence in all its aspects, because reverence
consists in bowing to Mumbo Jumbo, or
Matthew Davies, or the Governor, or the
Pope, or Joss, or Parkes, or some similar mud
idol which is soulless and of no account.
* * *
The Bulletin’s ghostly comforter plainly
holds it as a self-evident sin that there is in
Australia “ an outrageous manifestation of dis-
loyalty to the throne of our mother-land
together with all its noblest institutions.” To
us the sin is not self-evident, and we would be
glad if the reverend preacher would explain.
Why should Australia be devoted to the
English throne? It cannot be because it is
ancient, for the Chinese throne is much more
ancient, and therefore a fitter subject for rever-
ence. It cannot be because any single occupant
of the throne for many, many ages has done
anything worthy of reverence; the best of the
British royal race has done nothing nobler than
exist, and draw a salary, and practise those
negative virtues which society exacts from a
washerwoman, under pain of losing her washing
and mangling connection ; and the rest were
absolutely unpublishable. It cannot be, either,
because it is English ; the mere fact that a
thing is English is no more cause for reverence
than the fact of its being Patagonian ; neither
can it be because it is the throne of “our”
motherland—it may be the motherland of The
Bulletin’s clerical correspondent, but it
is not ours, and this paper does not
undertake to revere any motherland save its
own. And The Bulletin hereby denies that
there is a single “ noble institution ” in Eng-
land that it has not invariably treated with
profound respect, and it invites the reverend
gentleman from Central Queensland to point out
even one instance when it has failed in this
direction. There are various noble institutions
in that country which the Church has anathema-
tised and howled down with unfailing regu-
larity, but there is not one which we
have not endeavoured to honour. Also, the
charge of disloyalty which our correspondent
brings against this paper is a most amazing in-
stance of ignorance, and bigotry. The Bulletin
is loyal. It is the oldest loyal newspaper extant
in Australia, and it claims to be the best-known
journal among the loyal press of this continent.
The Bulletin has been loyal—to Australia—
since the first day of its existence, and it will
continue so at least as long as its present con-
ductors are above ground.
The Bul etin also emphatically repudiate
the statement that it is responsible for tl §
“boastful, self-satisfied spirit” of the comb 6
generation in this continent. If the
were the only boastful and self-satisfied inqf
vidual extant the theory might possess som'
shadow of credibility, but as all the world
built upon the same plan it is purely an i
entirely idiotic and utterly deranged. English
literature reeks with a sickening and utterly
disgusting spirit of brag, and the patriotic songs
of England are full of the ineffable conceit of a
nation which imagines that it owns the earth
and has a lien on the universe. The American
the Frenchman, the Spaniard, the Chinaman-!
who calls his land the Middle Kingdom of the
Earth—and everybody else, right down to the
nigger of Ashantee, is subject in a less degree
to the same sentiment. Also, as already men-
tioned, this paper denies that it has taught the
young Australian to be of an irreligious bent ■
instead, it has endeavoured ever since its
inception to be consistently religious according
to that religion which the modern church
preaches but does not practise—that religion
which is one long denunciation of priests and
capitalists. But it acknowledges with pride
that it has done its best- to -destroy, the
grand, old, alleged virtue of reverence for"”
one’s bogus “ betters,” and it trusts that
wherever or however it may have failed in
its purposes, it will at least be remembered in
its favour that it threw bricks at many ancient
idols with the best aim it could command. For
it has always held, as the first article of its
creed, that man should walk erect, and fear
nothing upon this earth, and abase himself
neither to obese and useless inouarchs, nor to
capitalists, nor churchmen—who are the humble
followers of capitalists, nor to titles—seeing
that hardly one good man has got a title since
nobility was first invented, nor to anything
else between the two ends of Time, which
only has its size, or its wealth, or its old age, or
its clerical gaiters, to recommend it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Queensland Exodus.
The Brisbane Worker, speaking through the
mouth of Mr. Gilbert Casey, rises to demolish
The Bulletin’s strictures on the proposed
wholesale emigration of Australian hush-workers
to the Argentine Republic—a movement which
this paper denounced as treacherous, foolish,
and almost certain to end in disaster The
following are the chief points of Mr. Casey’s
reply ;
If it is true, as Tub Bulletin man says, that the Argen-
tine scheme “is an ignominious bolt,” if it is true, as he
asserts, that it is “ treason to, and base dts.'rtion of the
cause of Liberty,” and if it is also “ a confession of
defeat,” how can he style the New Australia men the
very best and most enteiyn ising members of the Queens-
land Democracy ”? How can bespeak of them as “the
bone and muscle of the nation”? And, if they are, as ho
says, “the strongest section of the community,” what
sort of a mass of fermenting weakness, drivel, and imbe-
cility must the remaining portion lie Tub Bul-
letin may say of the proposed settlement “ that its only
attraction is its remoteness ; it is so remote that very few
of the deluded emigrants will ever get back.” Now' that
is just where the strength of the movement comes in.
. . . These people don’t want to comeback. . . .
This kind critic infers that the concession granted by the
Argentine Government may be revoked or abolished at
some future time. It doesn’t seem to dawn upon his
sterile imagination that the same thing might occur, and
probably will occur, in Australia some day, and the sooner
the better for the people. . . . The men going to the
Argentine believe in the Land for the People, Australia
for the Australians, and Argentina for the Argentines,
and as the Government there prefer to give it to settlers
rather than sell it to syndicators, the intending emigrants
purpose becoming citizens of Argentina. . . . Then
follow some unnecessary imputations respecting the title-
deeds that were a moment before considered valueless.
Great fear is expressed lest some individual should have
them made out in his own name and become a rack-rent-
ing landlord. Doubts of the sincerity and honesty of the
promoters are unworthy of Tub Bulletin.
Not one word of the above has any bearing on
the real question at issue. The Bulletin did
say, and still says, that the men" who propose
to rim away to Argentina are the “ bone and
muscle of the nation,” but it never said that
they were the brains of the nation, for their
actions conclusively prove the contrary, there-
fore Mr. Casey’s remarks on this point alto-
gether miss fire. Also, this paper is perfectly
well aware that the emigrants don’t intend to
come back ; what it pointed out was that they
will presently be exceedingly anxious to get
back, and won’t be able to do so. It still says
that the alleged concession by the Argentine
Government—is the concession an accomplished,
signed, sealed and delivered fact, by the way,
or is it only a vague promise ?—may be revoked
at some future time, and the fact that “ the
same thing might occur in Australia some day,
and the sooner the better for the people ” has
nothing to do with the case. If the Queensland
Government tried to revoke such a concession
it would be opposed by the combined force of
the labour unions : if the Argentine Govern-
ment did so it would be opposed by—about
500 or 1000, or, if you like, 5000 or 10,000
unarmed or badly-armed strangers, a little
isolated community among a population of over
three millions. If the emigrants' believe, as
Mr. Casev asserts, in “Argentina for the
Argentines ” then their acts belie their prin-
ciples, for the Australian has no more right
under such circumstances to grab the Argentine
lands than the Chinaman or the British specu-
lator has to grab the rich acres of Australia.
Moreover, The Bulletin’s chief accusation still
remains unanswered. The Argentina emigrants
are flying from the face of their cold-blooded,
arrogant and merciless enemy, Samuel
Griffith ; they are giving up the struggle, and
making their escape from the wrath of the
lantern-jawed lawyer whom they have despised
and reviled, and whose downfall they have so
often theatened. They do not even propose,
seemingly, to wait for the general election and
make one great, combined effort to unseat and
smash their enemy, but as many as can get
away are invited to bolt from their native land
and leave the Kanaka and the Chinaman and
the squatting autocrats, and MTlwraith’s land
syndicates in peaceful possession. There is not
going to be, so far as the emigrants are concerned,
any democratic upheaval, peaceful or other-
wise. Whoever can is to save himself, and the
devil or Griffith, or any similar individual is
to take the hindmost. The men who won’t
light in Queensland—who \vaut to get avva"


AVP ,tv, misgovernment, and cheap
from P ,leaking tracks to a land of worse
liibo“ r > ; nt cheaper labour, and bank-
iuisg° vCI remedy for their ills. And if this is
viiptcy? 1 an( | ignorance—then what is it .
indeed ! Let .» fight our
“N^ v A - (lt tlown to the gioimd m 01(1 Ana-
enemies i*b
trali a * —.
Wanted— An Inquiry.
T t u e recent “ no-confidence ” debate in
Parliament, one of the Laboi r-
tf-S*. V ,l laid against the police-department
1116111 VP indictment, which, however, made not
a g ia j DP Ie on the political waters. Nobody
eVC l to it. The charge was that
F al ‘ //detective had been employed and paid
a /f/p-u-rier silver companies to take notes of
byt Pfches of the unionists—with a view, of
a,c speed find somethillg which might be
colU -| S ’ a basis for a prosecution ; that so far
f I recognising the utter shamelessness of the
IOW fpmeiit the detective acknowledged it
arl n/lv • and that the State law authorities
1)1 anted the situation without protest In
;W . ce P .words it is asserted that the State lent a
ot I r officer paid by the nation, to be a
Pl vlte spy and informer in the private interests
P;’ ? e l silver autocrats of Broken Hill. If such
0 ,/vas done, the detective who accepted
V ll nation and the superior officer or officers
th ,® P .allowed him to accept it, should be dis-
/ with ignominy, and any Government
m / h (whether or not it sanctioned this
Wh Snlar arrangement) tolerates the existence
p f S things for a single day, should not
° /be expelled from office, but its mem-
l' s should bo individually ejected from the
t • i hire A State detective should no more
K“Tet fo do the dilty work of any
nrivate citizens than the army should he
1 out to the man who wants it as a handy
Instrument with which to shoot down his
personal enemies. No Government dare lend a
detective to the miners in order that that
nerson might attend meetings of the employers
L take clown their speeches in the interests
of the unions. Any payments made to Goverii-
mpnt detective policemen by private citizens are
undisguised bribery and corruption Detectives
are as distinctly State officers as is the Premier
L e lf and any Government which permits
“i o “ate “iipe” or “fees” fromout3.de
Mfccs could not logically object to the Premrer
loinglikewise. Policemen receive a certain salary
for tracing out and arresting law-breakers, and
when they receive money from private em-
nlovers it can only be because that employer
wants them to do work which interferes
with their proper official duties, or else
believes that they can’t be trusted to perform
the work for which they are paid with-
out extraneous bribery. If any capitalist is
allowed to pay a Government police officer to
work up a case against his personal enemy or
industrial opponent, then there is no possible
guarantee that he won’t pay him to get up a
bogus case when no real one exists in other
words, that a State department wont be
systematically employed for purposes of private
perjury. It is high time that an enquiry
were made into the average detective’s means
of livelihood. He is miserably paid ; consider-
ing the expenses incidental to his calling his
wages are hardly sufficient for bare subsistence.
He°lives, as a rule, at the rate of three times
his ostensible income—which, by the way, is
not saying very much. The difference must
come from sources outside the Treasury—either
from “ private practice ” or plain, unvarnished
blackmail. And private practice, in the detec-
tive business, is so very often the art of seeing
the thing that didn’t happen, and hearing the
thing that wasn’t said, and identifying the per-
son who wasn’t there, and otherwise filling in
gaps in a weak case or else supplying the whole
case ready-made, that the subject is urgently
in need of investigation.
Hereditary Parsons.
The principle of hereditary succession is, of
course, of undeniable excellence, seeing that to
its operation Great Britain owes the presence
ou the throne of that great Sovereign, Vic-
toria ; who, as is well known, is not merely
the most virtuous woman alive, but also the
most talented, the most generous, and the
greatest monarch at present or at any time
existent. It is true likewise that the hereditary
principle conferred upon a happy realm Wil-
liam IV., who was during his reign the most
virtuous, the most talented, the most generous,
and the greatest monarch then or at any previous
time known to history. Similarly, heredity
bestowed on the favoured kingdom George
IV., who was as aforesaid, and, moreover, the
first gentleman in Europe. The beauty of the
hereditary principle is that any Sovereign
excels all who preceded him or her, although
each was perfection in all respects, and
that to hint a word to the contrary
was evidence of an ill-regulated mind. It
is elevating to observe the manner in which
emulation expands the application of this great
and beneficial principle. It has bestowed on
Great Britain a series of the best possible dukes,
marquises, earls, viscounts, barons and barorets.
That great commander, General Booth, recog-
nised its merits from the first enrolment of the
Salvation Army, and started off with a dynasty
of Booths. After these excellent examples,
we trace, with enthusiasm, in one Australian
province, two dynasties of talented litterateurs,
conducting, on the hereditary principle, sundry
profitable journals. On the striking literary
endowments of the great families of Fairfax and
Bennett it is unnecessary to dwell. Their genius
is everywhere recognised, and lie would be
a gifted being indeed who could persuade them
to insert in their columns any half-crown adver-
tisement for less than two-and-six. After all
these inspiriting examples, it is with feelings of
indignation that we perceive that some unprin-
cipled persons —who must be at heart disloyal
to the Crown and inappreciative of the essen-
tials of our old nobility—are contesting the
Divine Right of the hereditarily-revercnd
Thomas Spurgeon to succeed to the dominions
and revenues of his father, the late C. H.
Spurgeon. An American person (of Republican
principles, no doubt) has set up a claim to suc-
ceed to this inheritance, and is supported by a
number of innovating members of the congrega-
tion, on the preposterous pretence that the
Yankee is better qualified to fill the throne
than is the rightful heir. We trust that such
dangerous and insurrectionary notions will
be “ stamped out,” as Judge Dauley , of Sydney,
said at Jubilee time. If they be allowed to
prevail, they open the door to a flood of infi-
delity and licentiousness, strike at the roots of
all our most venerated institutions, and under-
mine the Throne itself. It is afflicting to learn
that in relation to this matter a violent alter-
cation has arisen at prayer-meetings in the
Tabernacle itself. Were we on the spot
we would have urged that the dispute
should be settled by adopting the conse-
crated precedent established by the late Pastor
Elijah —a competitive prayer-match, the
winners to scalp and dismember the losers, as
in the original example. In default of this
suggestion it is greatly to be apprehended that
the pious zeal of the contending parties may,
in the best interests of religion, fake the missile
form of hymn-books, and hassocks.
By the time all is finished, New South .Wales
will cordially “damn Chicago” Exhibition.
The sum of £30,000 was appropriated from an
almost empty Treasury for the representation
of the State ; but arrangements have already
been made to spend fully that sum in salaries
and travelling expenses alone. The Executive
Commissioner, a surgeon named Renwick, now
or formerly one of the joints in Parkes’ tail, is
in London with a private secretary sitting on
the mat of the Colonial Office whining and
howling for a knighthood so piteously that you
can distinctly hear the poor creature over
12,000 miles of cable; there are to be ten super-
intendents at £lOOO or so each salary, and all
expenses: besides a posse of clerks and all
kinds of fancy officials. The general manager,
who will cost £1750, and the official reporter on
agricultural machinery, are both members of the
Finance Committee responsible for their own
appointments, and both represent large firms
whose keen business enterprise would, under
other circumstances, probably impel them
to incur a handsome expenditure to obtain
the opportunity of doing that which the public
now pays them to do. A “ distributor of
literature ” is to cost New South Wales £lOOO,
and a lady exhibitor of “women’s work”-
knitted socks and bad paintings, for, as a
“worker,” the Australee woman is a mere bar-
barian compared with her American sister, the
cleverest and most privileged woman in the
world, another £lOOO. Since its inception the
whole affair has been pockmarked with shame-
less lobbying and official favouritism, and there
have been the most violent contentions for
billets among the drunken and worthless
hangers-on of Sydney politicians. In view of
the present financial position of New South
Wales and all the other circumstances of the
case, this Chicago Exhibition expenditure—
which will probably total £60,000 at least—is
a shocking scandal.
At a late hour last Friday, the New South
Wales Legislature formally resolved that it had
confidence in the Dibbs Cabinet. There were
three separate divisions—upon the original
motion and the two amendments—and. the
results were interesting. On the first division,
82 members out of 134 present decided that the
Government ought to continue in office because
Premier Dibbs had taken £lOOO out of the
Treasury without Parliamentary authority.
Next, 99 out of a total attendance of 136,
decided that they had confidence in the Govern-
ment because it had arrested the Broken Hill
strike leaders, and granted a two months’ sus-
pension of labour conditions to the companies,
in order that they might man down their
employes ; and had appointed a special magis-
trate at the Barrier who sends to gaol for three
months the unionist who jostles a blackleg, and
fines the banker who commits a savage assault
on a unionist just £3. And, lastly, only 68
legislators out of 132 present voted that they
had confidence in the Government all round,
and approved of everything it had done, and
otherwise went the entire political hog generally.
From this it would appear that the enthusiasm
of the House has been aroused principally by
the glaring partiality displayed at Broken Hill;
and, after that, the thing which most excites
the admiration of the Assembly is the appro-
priation of £lOOO, so that Premier Dibbs could
havea fly-round in England. In fact, the Govern-
meat had so large a majority on these two points,
and had so small a one on the question or its
general policy, which includes such trines as
Federation, the One-man-one-vote Bui) Die
encouragement of local industries, and the sup-
pression of bogus banks, that it seems as it the
Cabinet was only saved by the Broken FI ill
arrests and the £lOOO misappropriation. In
other words, the Assembly reluctantly condones
the Ministry’s attempt to abolish plural voting,
bank swindles, cheap European and Chinese
shoddy and other glaring evils, because it has
done its best to squash trades-unionism and
because its leader has become a K.O.M.G. and
a laughing-stock at the public expense. Party
Government evolves some curious results at
times, but this is about the strangest of the lot.
The omens deepen in Great Britain. It is only
a couple of years ago since the Coldstream
Guards refused to parade when ordered to do
so, on account of the inconsiderateness of their
officers. So serious was the incident that the
whole regiment was exiled to Bermuda, and
only brought back again quite lately. Now,
there has been a similar outbreak of insubor-
dination among the Life Guards. The informa-
tion cabled out has been very “guarded,
indeed. “ Disaffection has arisen,” we arc told,
“ owing to some orders recently issued,’ but
what these orders involved is information
cautiously withheld. Next ensued an attempt
to pretend that the matter was insignificant.
“ Only one man ” was occasioning trouble. But
evidently circumstances were too much for that
lie, and it has been abandoned. It comes out
that a number of saddles have been cut up, and
that the men hooted their officers. And infor-
mation has followed that the regiment was
bribed to give away the ring-leaders by an offer
to look over the general offence, if they would
but betray their comrades. Failing this noble
expedient—and it has failed so far —the affair is
to be treated as mutiny. “ M utiny of the Life
Guards ” would read awkwardly as a head-
line to a Toty newspaper. When the Pretorians
mutinied in Koine it was apt to be “ all up ”
with the Emperor for the time being. And the
men who led the attack on the Bastille, in
Paris, at the beginning of the first French
Revolution, were members of the French Guards
disbanded for “ disaffection.”
♦
Liverpool (Eng.) Daily Post strikes the weak
point of the cold water and coffee-palace
brigade :
Coffee-palaces and British workmen’s public-houses bad
an almost identical programme before them at the outset.
Has a single drunkard ever been made a sober man
through their agency? The truth is that nothing will
induce the average Briton to tipple coffee, lemonade,
ginger-ale, or zoedone as social lubricants. There is no
conviviality in them. Possibly, if the Legislature would
allow the manufacturers to tincture them slightly witli
alcohol they would find favour. But climatic influences
are against indulgence in non-alcoholic “ refrescos,” such
as those in winch the Spanish peasant delights. As for
eating, it is not a social function, and nothing will ever
make - it so. Public dinners may be cited to the contrary,
but it is only when the cloth has been removed that mirth
begins to abound.
That is where all the trouble comes in. The
great object'of liquor is to make the world look
a little brighter than it is—to sink the bricks
and mortar and the dull commonplace; and
even the dirty individual who soaks in solemn
silence all alone in a corner of a dingy bar feels
a little brighter while the drinking process
lasts. He may look exceedingly dreary
when he is drunk, but he feels drearier
still when he is sober, so he prefers to be
drunk. The chief end and purpose of
alcohol is hilarity, and there is no hilarity in
ginger-beer and the like ; the social gathering
which drinks such fluids is just about as gay as
an assemblage of frogs collected round a lump
of ice. The coffee-palace industry is based on
a total misapprehension of the case. It starts
from the assumption that man drinks to quench
his thirst, whereas he really drinks because he
wants to get more or less drunk. The desire to
get drunk"appears to be inherent in humanity.
The more solemn the world appears, the more
mankind longs to get tight, so as to become
oblivious to its solemnity, therefore the teeto-
taller, as the most solemn thing on earth, is a
cause of drunkenness. Until somebody invents
a kind of cold water which will cause nerve-
stimulation, the Band of Hope business is utterly
hopeless.
Advice for the Victorians.
Get rid of the nobs who are “ wrong,’’
And fill up their places with straight ’uns,
A country with such a bong tong
Would shortly be hotter than Satan’s.
Before you can hope to revive
That “confidence” talked of at dinners,
You'll have to look slippy and strive
To clear out your parcel of sinners,
For quite long enough
They have fingered the “stuff ”
Of the sound, unassuming bread-winners.
Get rid of the crow who will pull
The strings as of yore, if you let ’em,
And show, once for all, you are “full”
Of the humbugs that aid and abet ’em.
It keeps down the price of the stock
When duffers are offered as samples;
Then bundle them into the dock
And label them “ shocking examples !”
No good, understand,
Cometh out of the land
Where the foot of the elephant tramples.
Say “ dam !” to the dullards who prate
Of “danger ” in speaking out clearly—
As holders of shares in the State
You want the truth shouted sincerely.
Though some may be weak and afraid,
Whilst others on principle grovel,
Insist that a spade is a spado
Whenever they call it a shovel.
A crime is the same
Though the miscreant came
From a five-storey house or a hovel.
Two Ways of Telling a Story.
She was a little Puritan maiden during the reign
of the Merry Monarch who told her people that
as affairs were unprosperous at home it had
been borne in upon her that it was her duty to go
up to London to the King’s Court and get every-
thing put right. This disturbed her relations a
good deal. One of her younger brothers snorted
and kept on asking her to say just what she ex-
pected to do. But she only said that he was a
tiresome monkey, and she went off. And no
sooner had she got to the Court than a gay lord-
ling met her, and said he had heard she was
coming, and if she would only give up her Puritan
notions, he could promise her a nice riband and a
jewel and a place as a deputy-lady-in-waiting. But
the little maid said she had not been brought up
that way, and had not come to gratify any vanities
or self-indulgences, and smiling merrily at the
gay lordling she tossed her head and said nothing
of that kind that he could offer had any attraction
for her. But, by-and-bye, the gay lordling came
to her and took her aside and whispered to her
that it wasn’t for himself at all he spoke, but for
His Most Gracious Majesty the King. And then
the good little Puritan girl said she was deeply
grieved and had never expected this, but she
wouldn’t refuse her Sovereign anything. “ Only,”
she said, a little sharply, “none of your backstairs
business for me. When I surrender to the
King I’ve got to be fetched in a State carriage and
up the front way.” And the gay lordling laughed
in his sleeve, and said he would make that all
right. And the good little Puritan girl was taken
to the King in the State carriage and by the front
door, and was a publicly acknowledged favourite,
and received great attentions wherever she went,
and this did her family affairs a great deal of
good.
This was her way of telling it.
* » *
But when she returned home again some of the
family madearidiculous fuss when they saw that she
had abandoned her simple dress and was bedecked
in the fine Court style—several cried out that she
had bartered away her honour, and was a disgrace
to the family. And others had found out that she
had taken a guinea from the family purse to pay her
way to London, and said it was like stealing. But
she showed that her brother Bob was with her when
she took the money, and had, in fact, opened the
strong box and given it out to her. And besides,
she said, look what she had managed for the
benefit of the family affairs. Then some other
brothers and sisters said that they didn’t see that
the family were one groat the better. But she
replied that they were well spoken of in London,
and they would feel the benefits by-and-bye. But
again, some said that it was shameful of her, a
Puritan maid, to become one of the King’s
favourites. But she said that she hoped she
knew her duty : that when a mere lord solicited
her she preserved her virtue ; but that when the
King himself courted her she would have been a
disgrace to the family if she had not let him seduce
her, and she was proud of the honour done to the
family,
* # *
But when people at Court learned how the little
wench accounted for her being made favourite,
they laughed satirically and declared that they
didn’t believe the King ever courted her in person
at all. The way of it was this, they said : One
day, when the Puritan girl was among a lot of
fine Court people, the King’s nearest relative saw
her, and, having had a hint of her little game, he
sent Chi flinch to ask how she would like to give
up being a Puritan and to be made a favourite, and
just hinted that she could become a deputy-lady-
in-waiting if that would suit her. And that there-
upon the little Puritan seemed pretty willing to
accommodate the King on any terms, so long as
he openly received her himself, but that she con-
sidered she ought to be made a duchess or
a marchioness at least, because she and
Bab Palmer were at school together, and
now Barbara was always flaunting over her,
because while Barbara was a marchioness she was
only a plain Puritan “ mistress.” But Chiflinch
only smiled in his sly, oily way, and let her know
that it was deputy-lady-in-waiting or nothing.
Plenty girls cast sheeps’ eyes at the King in vain,
and in fact it was only her prim, Puritan way that
had caught the King’s fancy at all. And that
then the young person said it was all right, she’d
take what she could get, and she’d go to the King
any time he might be graciously pleased to send
for her, but she hoped it would bo soon, because
she must go back to the family presently. So
Chiffinch said that should be managed. The King
generally honoured new favourites in batches, but
he’d make a special time for his little Puritan ; it
wouldn’t be the first time he had made an excep-
tion of the kind.
That's their way of tolling it.
But, either way, what a nice, high-principled
little girl that Puritan maiden was—and how lojal
to her Sovereign !
His Hands Are Always Clean.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ One thin" must be said for the Australian politiciai s
—their hands are always clean.”—Review of Reviews.
’Twas said our politicians sometimes make a little
slip,
’Twas said our politicians sometimes take a little
nip,
’Twas said our politicians sometimes do the thing
that’s mean,
But, thank the Lord! at least we know their hands
are always clean.
They never built a railway to oblige a squatting
friend,
They never rigged a public job to suit a private
end,
They’d scorn to take advantage of a simple folk
and green —
God bless them all! Whate’er befall—we know
their hands are clean.
They never grabbed the public lands or dipped
their fingers in
The big big box that guardeth well the precious
public tin;
They take no bribe from boss or bank, no title
from the Queen
A righteous band they rule the land —their hands
are always clean.
They never hatched a wild-cat scheme—they’d
never salt a mine ;
They never gazed too long upon the ruddy, ruddy
wine;
In Yankeeland and Canada some curious jobs are
seen—
But here (I say) the M.L. A.—his hands are always
clean.
They never figure in the courts— they never go to
gaol 5
They never rat —or cuss, or chew—or sit upon a
rail;
They never call each other names, they never make
a scene ;
Their hearts are true, and tender, too, and then
their hands are clean.
O ! would I were a showman ! I’d catch an
M.L.A. ;
The giant, dwarf, and podgy boy—l’d turn them
all away;
I’d turn away the fat man—l’d turn away the
lean —
And I’d show the politician 'whose hands arc always
clean !
Q.
P. LUFTING
Accordingto the latest bye-election returns,
the illiterate voters in Ireland are one in 10; in
England and Wales, one in 80 ; in Scotland, one
in 210.
Sir Thomas Elder has instructed the coun-
cil of his late expedition to make Lindsay’s map B
and reports public property. This means, we
presume, that they will turn up in due course
around our sausages.
One Pugh came before last Stafford (Eng.)
Assizes for murder, under the strangest circum-
stances. He and a woman named Gill got
drunk together, and agreed to drown themselves.
In the water the woman tried so savagely to
drown him that he had no escape but to drown
her. Acquitted.
London Dwarf, which has the reputation
of being “smart,” owes a good deal of its smart-
ness to the fact that it reprints Bulletin matter
without acknowledgment. In the Weekly Des-
I’ATCH of 14th Aug. credit is actually given to the
Dwarf for matter so stolen by the latter from
The Bulletin. This is “ rubbing it in ” with a
vengeance.
In France the deaths now exceed the
births by nearly 40,000 in a single year. No less
than 250,000 infants die yearly, of whom at least
100,000 could be saved by intelligent care. It is
now illegal to give children under one year of ago
any solid food except on medical advice, and
nurses are forbidden to use nursing-bottles having
rubber tubes. Efforts are being made also to
induce Parisian mothers to nurse their own
infants.


Mrs. Beefcon says: “Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. 6d., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clarets, and they are only one-third of the
price.
The man who having bet detects himself
singing before a race is doomed to lose. His only
safeguard is hedging. Few betting men have the
courage to wager their money after having seen a
cross-eyed person. Such an occurrence is an
omen of the worst sort. The appearance of a grey
horse never fails to cause anxious search for the
red-haired girl—the combination is invincible. It
is a sure sign of success when a man keeps his-
securities in the Sydney Safe Deposit.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hub Majesty’s "Carmen up to Data,"
Garrick “ Genevieve de Brabant."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
I’HifiCEss's “ The Pointsman.”
MbPO , .... ‘‘A Village Priest.” (the
10th only) “ Richelieu.”
Alexandra. . . The Greenwoods.
A flabby and dolorous thing is “ Carmen
up to Data,” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney). Even
Gie departed, “Faust,” although none too good,
was 85 per cent, more brilliant than its successor,
Whjcli is as. tasteless as a meal of stewed umbrella
wifch hat sauce, and as intangible as the spectre
\yljdoh walketh op its head in space. “ Carmen ”
is altogether null and void, and the facts are not
in it, and its hpmouc is mostly from the back page
of the Family Herald, and the dances, are just
those vye have seen, before, and the songs are,
poor and bumpy about the metre, and it is
glaringly obvious all through that the author’s
head was n.ude inside. About 44 characters
cruise round, aimlessly through the' piece
for no visible purpose and in no visible
direction, and take encores on the smallest
provocation—in fact, a hungry desire to rush
aft|er the encore and seize it by the tail is the
strongest feature of a show, which, taking it all
round, has about as many features' as an anvil,
ancj not a, first-class anvil at that. Sometimes
they come bapk without thp encore, and say the
sapid thing oyer again when tlieye is no visible
dernand for it at all. The scenery is surpassingly
beautiful, but it is spoilt by the company getting
in front of it and interrupting the view most of
the time ;. and it is only now and then that one
can get a chance to sit in peace and quietness and
admire the painted verdure, and, the mellow soft-
ness of the moonlight, and the glimpses of the old
Spanish city that slumbers on a far-off hill, without
someone coming in and contorting himself before
the footlights.' And the effect of all this is much
tpe same as if a nigger minstrel were tied to one
of Murillo’s masterpieces; and yoil couldn’t, have
the masterpiece without taking (he ’nigger also.
The burlesque Which isn’t amusing is a lost
burlesque, and “Carmen” isn’t^ amusing, except
to'a student of legs and antiquities. And when
we considet the ghastly fact that burlesque can'
boom in London through tlie long procession of
the haggard years, until the “ chappie ” is in his
second childhood, and his feet are cold and horrible
at night, and, the principal fay in tights is a
grandmother, Our tespect for British institutions
is sb utterly lost that it is rib use advertising for
it, for it will never be found anymore.’
#'* * »
Mr. Lonnen, as Josd, takes the oppor-
tunity to run in the threadbare “Bogie Man”
once more, and the inevitable Irish song, and
the inevitable masher song, and t t he man who
dies several times' and comes to life again
because he hasn’t time to remain dead. Also,
he makes a decided sensation with a certain
mesnieric performance, and, otherwise plays
his'part as well as the circumstances admit,
which, considering that there is only one circum-
stance ip the play, and. it is a poor one, isn’t very
high praise after all. Mr. Courtneidge looks very
much as be looked in “Faust,” and, makes his
best hit through an ancient Alhambra joke \yith
an apple, and by means of a considerable absence of.
clothes in the second act. Miss Addie Conyers, as
Eseatnillo, contrives somehow to look ten yearsolder
than she did when we saw, her last, and leayes a
feeling of depression behind her. Her song, “In
Public,” does likewise. Miss Alice Leamar failed
to reproduce her famous dance on Saturday night,
and without it she fell in public estimation con-
siderably. However, she sang two songs, one of
which wasn’t so bad while the other one was.
The gallery seemed to be gratified, but sundry
persons of a dyspeptic turn in other parts of the
house turned pale and groaned audibly. Also,
Miss Marion Hood wore the same smile which she
wore in “Faust,” and played in a pretty sort of
fashion, only it was the same fashion as before to
a hair, and the public begins to suspect that there
is a serious want of variety in this lady some-
where.
** * *
That bright and ever-welcome Frenchman,
Max O’Rell, started his series of farewell lectures
at Sydney Centenary Hall last Monday with an
address upon the guileful Yankee. Probably M.
Blouet intends going back to the XT.S. some day
or other, and to avoid being killed he has omitted
from his discourse a good many Yankee
characteristics which ought to have been inserted.
He says nothing about the expensive shop teeth
with which the American manfully tackles Ins
victuals, about the streets which haven’t been re-
paired since fhe days of Hernando de Soto or
thereabouts, about the chewing gum, and the
bound-book fiends, and the ash-barrel in front of
every door, and the boodle aldermen, the patent
medicines, the wooden hams, the confidence men,
the bunco men, the pallid girls with indigestion,
and several hundred other thrilling features. Also,
he comes once so very near using up an ancient
joke—-a joke so extremely ancient that Mark
Twain hung an aboriginal Briton for publishing it
about the year 550—that his reputation for origin-
ality is tottering in the balance. But all the
same Max O’Rell is the brightest lecturer who
ever struck this continent within our recollection,
and when he goes back to Europe and proceeds to
dissect the Australian in all his horror he will
probably do more to reduce the value of Austra-
lian securities than any man who went before him.
** & #
The Emily Soldene Opera Co. opens at
Sydney Garrick, next Monday, with “Genevieve
de Brabant,” a comic opera which hasn’t been seen
in the city since a period that passeth recollec-
tion. The company which proposes to wrestle
with this musical joy consists of Misses Emily
Soldene, Josephine Deakin, and Ada Lee, and
Messrs. Walton, Shine, and Leopold, and other
lights of more or less candle-power. Business
ought to be good. It Sydney can’t give a solid
support to one large theatre and a small one, then
the capital of N.S.W. had better be shifted Y
Kiama without further delay,
* * *
At Sydney Opera House on Saturday night
a party of more or less distinguished amateurs
gave an entertainment in aid of a “ well-knovvn
charity at least the original announcements
put it that way. Later developments, however,
revealed the fact that it was in aid of the Charity
Organisation Society, which isn’t a charity, but
only a cold and bowelless dodge for inquiring into
the morals of everybody who is in want, and
either not finding out that he is a fit subject for
benevolence until he is dead, or else demonstrating
that he isn’t a fit subject because he is too dis-
respectful to the British crown, or something of
the sort. Considering how judiciously the obieCt
of the show was smothered in the inspired
paragraphs which went round the daily press
there seems reason to suspect that somebody or
other connected with the movement was a good
deal ashamed of the “charity.” The programme
consisted of two attractive comediettas, “ The
Obstinate Family,” and “To Parents and
Guardians,” and the heat and burden of the day
were borne principally by Mrs. Forbes-Angus,
Misses Austin and Pilcher, and Messrs. “ Chum-
ley,” Gosohen, Clibborn, and George Forbes. Of
these Messrs. “Chumley”and Goschen got most
of the fat, and the others had the lean parts of the
show, and the gristle. The performance as a
whole was above the usual amateur level, the
house was crowded by a high-toned audience, the
Government House party attended in full force,
several tons of diamonds were present, and if a
fire had broken, out ip the middle, of the enter-
tainment all the beauty and fashion of Sydney
would have been trodden under foot on the stairs.
*» * *
Qvide Musin’s farewell concert in Sydney
Centennial Hall, on 30th ult., was rendered
hideous by encores, almost every item was doubled,
and, as there was no interval, the strain was
enormous on people who had to sit it out. The
Musins left for America by the Yankee mail.
Perhaps the most ingeniously nasty and malevo-
lent notices yet penned of any public performers,
were those written about them in a certain daily
paper, whose sugared venom, however, poison's
nobody but its own stipendiary snake.
* -* *
The Lost*Paradise,” tit Melbourne Prin-
cess’, was not lengthened and strengthened, or
altered and improved, in any way worth mention-
ing, therefore that badly-balanced story of a feeble,
strike will die for want of nourishment on Friday.
A few lines of dialogue, bearing upon the larceny
of a patent dynamo invention by the aged parent,
have been restored to the second act, but other-
wise the. original disappointment stands where it
did. The play is out of the scale apd r»ff the
square, and it doesn’t hang together. Much tin-
kering has—to use a Mantalini expression—
demined the outline of the plot and distorted the
dramatic truth of leading incidents. The stronger,
threads of interest are not neatly united at the
finish, whilst a sentimental foundry-girl, con-
scientiously played by Miss Spong, ‘is a‘thread
with no _ well-defined beginning or end. Also,
Cinders an epidemic that would prove fatal to
an ‘entertainment far more robust than this. It
was supposed that the management would at least
clip the wings of Linders'after the first night;
even if the grimy angel wasn’t, paid' a large sum
not to appear again, yet she has been retained
m all her pristine awfulness, out of, defer-
ence to the clamour of twenty inevitable
gallery boys, whose joyous whistle drowns the
sighs of tjie more thoughtful. The opinion of
Divine William on, this young clowness would be
worth having, but D.W., rest his soul ! is dead.
The representative of Cinders was a member of
the Evangeline company, they say, aqd the state-,
ment, sounds quite feasible. She is funny enough
to have filled the r6le of the heifer in that great
Murr’kan production. The sins of “The Lost
Paradise” are now of little consequence, however,
and its comic relief need not be further, dwelt
upon. Oh Saturday they intend to revive “The
Pointsman,” with Sass as the leading criminal,
Miss Watson in the good girl part, and. Miss
Maud Williamson, specially engaged to re appear
as the erring sister. Also, the famous railway
accident has kindly consented to repeat its former
success.
m* * *
“ A Village Priest ” goes peacefully on his
blessed way at the Bijou, respected by everyone
who knows him, and refusing money at the door
on Saturdays. He is about the only authen-
ticated instance of a. priest rejecting a donation
on the ground that all his seats are taken, but the
sacrifice has to be made t,o police regulations.
B. & B. talk of telegraphing for the Duke of Nor-
folk’s brother, or somebody, to come over and
guarantee the genuineness of Tith.’s miraclej and
if he can’t manage the business, there are heaps
of other British noblemen who will swear to any-
thing at a price. A certificate with the miracle
would put an end to a great religious contro-
versy at present raging in Melbourne—is the
Word of the Deity shifted by supernatural
power or otherwise? People wish to know.
Again, Deakin and Marshall Lyle would
like to find out, in the cause of science,
whether the deceased' judge who murdered the
husband of his mash was a sufferer from epileptic
fits. _ A society for exploring the interior of the
late judge’s mind is urgently demanded, and his
skull ought to be dug up forthwith.
* * #
On Monday next, as already announced,
the “Village Priest” will stand aside for a
moment, and allow a more dignified clergyman to
take the stage. A selected cast, including
litheradge, Boucicault, Cecil Ward, Harwood,
Cathcart, Appleton, Cannam, Greenaway, Mr.
and Mrs. Brough, and Miss Watt-Tanner will sup-
port beneficiare Mayne in his performance of
“ Richelieu.” A rush for seats has already set in,
and everyone who takes any interest in acting for
acting’s sake will endeavour to be present to see
the business-manager produced as a tragedian in
such thoroughly slap-up style.
** * *
The remarkable Greenwood family are still
giving “My Sweetheart” to thin, spectral
audiences, at the Alexandra. They talk, too, of
following up this crime with another great show,
called “ Blanche,” on Saturday,
** * *
The halls are nob flourishing exuberantly
as things ought to flourish in the Spring. At the
end of this week Harry Rickards leaves St-
George’s, and the main body of the Coghill crowd
■will roll up again to fill the gap. The Gaiety is.
doing as usual, and the Cycloratnas, Waxworks,
Ac., look forward to a mild influx of country
visitors,
** * *
This afternoon (6th) the highly-respeqtable
amateur performance of “ Cloches de Corneville ”
will be set up at the Opera House for the benefit
of James Ure, musical manager, of the Prahran
company.
** * *
Maggie Moore has not increased the
audiences at the Adelaide Royal by stageing
“Meg.” There was another change on Saturday
(Oct. 1). *
* * *
Our old friend “ Plain Bill ” Holloway is
to play Kent in the revival of “King Lear,” at
London Lyceum. Irving, who had for months
(says The Bulletin correspondent) been looking
for the man with the biggest voice, has finally
pitched upon our Bill. William’s son-in-law, by
the way, has just returned from a trip to the
North Cape in his handsome yacht. He had a
very jolly party on board, and they had a high
time of it. What a lucky girl Essie Jenyns was
to pick up such a prize in the matrimonial lottery !
for he is a model husband—a man such as is rarely
vouchsafed by Heaven as the consort of any
actress. There is a rumour of Essie’s sister being
engaged to a medico, a very excellent fellow, in
good practice at South Kensington,
** * *
This advt., clipped from an Anglo-Aus-
tralian paper published in London, signalises a
new departure in the lecturing business which we
commend to the notice of the much-travelled
Smythe should he ever give us a second dose of
Stanley. The chance of even 5 per cent, of the
audience getting a nugget of gold, no matter how
small, to say nothing of the prospect of preserved
fruits, should make even “ the Brigand ” draw.—
Exeter Hall, Ist September.
“LIFE IN AUSTRALI A.”
B?
Mr. G. WILSON HALL
(M.P., yictoria,. from 1880, to 1892, Whip in two.
Governments),,
AND
Mr. A. R. E. BURTON (of Victoria);,
Illustrated by Limelight Views.
Small Nuggets given to 5 per cent, of the audience ;
Preserved Fruit, &c.
Chairman: Hon. Jas. Monro Admission, Is.
It will be observed that the chairman is no less a
person than Mr. “ Jimmy ” Munro himself. How
interesting it would be to. the frequenters of
Exeter Hall if Jimmy himself were to give a lec-
ture (say) on the subject of “The credulity of
investors, qr How to run a Bank,” followed by
“ How I made myself an, Agept-Genera),, and why
i went back !.”
Writes “ Sappho” In “.Carmen up to Data” Marion
Hood stood out as possibly the only woman alive who
can run a yard without looking like an avalanche on two
tootsies. “ Women an’ cows,” says Josh Billings,
“shouldn’t run-they can’t.” But Marion quite upsets
the humourist by the aerial way in which she eluded
Lonnen. As “Carmen,” she looked very fetching in
three toilets : Terra-cotta gauze with gold sequin
edgings combined; with chrome green silk ; the jupe
opening oyer cream satin embroidered in gold and
green ; green Toreador, hat (it’s a marvel how she balances
her head-gear at such acute'angles) trimmed with pom-
poms. Another was a picturesque vivid mingling of
mauve, pale-blue, scarlet and embroideries with a red cap
a-top of her blonde, blonde hair. The last dress was
primrose satin veiled in white tulle with gold-spanglcd
hems and frpnt panel of embroidered satin ; huge sash of
yellow satin and wide Toreador hat en suite,.
Lethbridge had only one frock in which she looked;
divine—black-yelidvy silk, qoncertina-kinked all over a
black lace jupe, spangled in gold, but the gown she evi-
dently thought most of —a white Bengalinq figured about
with horribly cheap pearl beads, made her look like the.
goddess of, pipe-clay. Alice Leamar’s vvhitp frock with
tjiree or four blobs of, red suggested that she had been
fooling with the sealing-\v;ax before coming on, hut on the
whole “Carmqn” was a, brilliant dress parade, and,
judging by the frequent crashes pf falling glass heard
from behind the scenes on the first night, the limelight-
man was having a stirring time oyer his frantiq efforts,tp,
keep pace with the scenery.
The dress-circle was crowded—yith a posse of society
youths and maidens in the centre box. By the way, I
was deeply interested in a theatre-party the othfr, ev.en-.
ing, which included a plump partridge in black snipped
out to the fourteenth notch. The gentleman behind her.
always gracefully attracted.ljpr attention by tapping hgr
on the back bone with his knuckles!
Sydney ’chaw orchestral- society’s jingle in the Cen-
tennial flail on 29th ult. was, a rousing occurrence.
Hazon has worked his assorted pupils, up to a very
pretty proficiency. The amateurs! most popular bit was.
the last furious movement in Greig’s,“ Peer Gynt.” The
players really entered into the savage recklessness of, the
thing, and the riot scored a one-voiced, call. But,
between you and me, I think Hazon groups his forces
very ineffectively. He ought to take a line from the
stage-manager who alway s puts, umbrella-frames in the
baoly row.
The Society’s programme vvas dj!uted ; by Nellie Young
(in a very taking pink satin gown, with big sleeves, and
carrying a posy of crimson azaleas) and “Syd. ’ Moss.
If Miss Young’s method were as charming as her voice,
Australia would be too small tp hold her—lnß as it is a.
ceaseless undulation, like a bulrush in a breeze, and a
trick of thrusting her head out like the apocryphal horse
that won by a tongue, it irritates you. Mr. Moss triumphed,
in a terribly classical Rubenstein bit, and, made folks
wonder why he doesn’t, show publicly oftener. Not that
a Rubenstein disciple would pay gas-bills if he did appear
once a week—only it sounds well to he heard encouraging
the classics, don’toherknow.
At Poverty Point.
Sir M. H. Davies lost his Evangelicalism on his first trip
to Europe, and became an enthusiastic supporter of
Tessero’s luckless French dramatic troupe. He used, to
be there pretty well every night in Melbourne.
Macready, like Hoskins and Parkes, was a father in his
septuagenity, and what came of the son? He would still
be a young man, not half the age of that Macready who
got a precarious job of furniture-shifting, under Barry
Sulliyan, in Melbourne.
The unreality of the actor’s a.rt, as compared with the
preacher’s, is the theme of a Melbourne newspaper attack
on Pastor Marshall; hue the fault of this argument is an
assumption that the preacher is God.
Sir Bingy’s Bingy’s estimate of losses for two years
previous to the sequestration of his estate includes the
item of £99 18s. 4d. “ guarantee given, on behalf of the
Victorian Orchestra.’’
HDear Bulletin, —The nigs, going to, Chicago recall to
me the Tommy Wills aboriginal team of cricketers in
England: Cuzens, Sundown, Tarpot, &c. Only Johnny
Mullagh lived to approach middle age.— Animile.
Haddon Chambers, writes our Condon correspondent
by last mail, delays naming his new play (“Queen
Manoa”), written for Mrs. Langtry, until a day or two
before it is produced—reason not given. It is understood
that the Lily will have a very strong part— something in
the shape of a lady of high society who is also very keen
on business, and fond of “ the pieces.” This should suit
her admirably. Perhaps Haddon has taken the lady her-
self for his subject. Lily is said to be the most grasping,
greedy woman in existence. Someone who has bad's
good opportunity of forming an opinion says that she is
worth over a quarter,-of-a-million £. As she does not
spend much of her own income, thanks to the generosity
of her friends, it can easily he calculated what an
enormously rich woman she will be in the course of a
few years.
G. W. Anson has been giving some “timely warning”
to actors desirous of trying their fortune in Australia.
Actors, he says, should not go out to Australia on spec.
He would not advise any actor to go out except on a
year’s agreement, with fares paid both ways, and a salary
of at least a third more tjian he can hve on at ’Ouie.
Even then he should not go out unless to Melbourne or
Sydney. George says nothing about the shes, but, of
course, his remarks apply to them also. According to
Anson, Australians are inclined to make dead sets against
actors who do not please them and whom the management
in consequence take out of the bill at once.
When will the Sydney Town Hall authorities shut their
doors aga'nst ingress and egress when a number is being
played ? The tram excuse for sudden bolts is played out.
The other evening Organist Wiegand’s petfoimance was
over by, 9.20, yet 500 people straggled and scuffled out
three, minutes earlier.
D, C. Murray’s pew play will he called “ The Chartist.”
Minnie Palmer may join the Gaiety for boy parte
Pattie Browne has not yet Rot a billet in London
Governor William Robinson has been presiding
certs given by Herr Adalbert Francik-just returns!; 1 '
Sydney after years’ absence in Europe- to the i!?, 1 . 0
tants of Perth and Fremantle. At the former enfnT?*! 31 '
merit Chief Justice Onslow sang and Justice Her,*.'
played. Of course the local critics suspended operand"
for the occasion. The performances of such digni t-u-io* ns
sacred. ® “-‘nes are
Ada Crossley, the fine contralto, is a Gimisbrr.H, ,• ,
Her father once opposed F. C. Mason in South
but was beaten. '■"Fpsiand,
A correspondent emiuires whether Gallo wav
formerly of St. Leon’s circus,, is identical with the pT"’’
River (Q.) gold-finder. e ie rcy
Rev. Marshall must logically patronise the “ Vilw
Priest, as well as the “ Silver ICing,” unless Bentley iff®
be exalted as the only white flower amid Thesnianl
Surely it is not to be assumed that all our actors--™!*
actresses—must be Scotch Presbyterians. Ben tie v
Rev. Marshall, they say, went to school together wi,;!li7
accounts for the milk in the cocoanut,. says a critic. Ch
Says a Sydney paper Signal success in the hiohe«
branches of civilised life has been reached by Ausbr ilta m
the person of Madame Melba and Frances Saville
of these beautiful wielders of that marvellous im'stptt" l
the human voice-was flouted or ignored in the land
her birth. Each of them is now standing on the hiirheof
curve of the great musical, world.” This is sfnipiv
true. Melba’s talents were recognised here by ail tba
public and some critics long before she went elsewhere!
trances Saville always drew crowds wherever she sane- in
Australia, and was advised in these columns, and bv
of friends before Santley lieard her, to visit Europe ere
her voice lost freshness.. The truth is that our population
is too limited for tlie lengthy recognition and full pson
niary reward of the truly great in any department o«
artistic activity. Were Melba compelled never to
outside of. Paris, were Saville confined to Brussels the
lovers of music in those cities would soon get surfeited
and the artistes’ fees would greatly decline. * u '
Snazelle recently gave a shilling entertainment at Ban
Fiji, ma. Wes’eyan church ! In the absence of silver coin
the accommodating showman acoepled payment “in
k, ,n a”—masi (tappa) of all kinds, fans, nmdel canoes
shells,, baskets, spears, clubs, fly-whisks, pearls moon’
stones, &c. One native wanted “tickets for three” hi
exchange for a lively pig. The Fin Times reports that
the entertainment “dealt solely witli sacred, or close/u
allied subjects,” and afterwards glows over the adniirn
tion evoked by “views of Windsor Castle and other
lmbitatipna.of.tho Queen !” Now, swallow this mixture
next, please; ‘t A.t the changes in the Rock of Ages amt in
the Cross scenes, there sounded through the church ■.
deep, low, sound of;awe, like a suppressed soli. The solos
by Mr. and.Miss.Snazelle w ere listened to with rapt atten
tioii, despite tlip wheezy, cockroach-damaged harmonium
with which Miss Snazelle had to, wrestle.” Master-throb
of contrast! Divinity and cockroaches! Agonv and
squeaks! Orthodoxy and—Snazelle !
“Miss Cushman, niece of Charlotte Cushman (Mrs
roller-skate Skinner),” is,referred to by the Era, as about
to appear in London, “after her, brilliant Australian
successes.”
Fortescue puzzled: qon-theatripals, about Melbourne a«-
to whether he i?. Judge Fellows r f divivus, or Glasscott
Symes.
Kate Bishop, was, the original VJolet Melrose, in “ Our
Boys,” 1362 nights.
Maccabe’s autobiography iapromised.
When is some competent person to take charge of; the
business-management of Sydney’s grand organ? On a
late Saturday, owing to the utter lack of sense displayed
in ticket-selling, half the first part was over before all the
audience could gain, admission. Despite this, the floor, was
crowded and the galleries were about half fail.
“ A Village Priest,” at Melbourne Bijou, has steadily
drawn added money bn from the first night.
A. London correspondent.: I recently took a party oft
country cousins to spend a happy, evening at a music-
hall. Commencing at the Tivoli, we went to four, houses,
without being able to get a.seat, so packed were they all •
it was only, by Sw.anborough giving up his private box,at
the Royal that I was able to give my friends a treat. The
business done at the halls now is enormous, and whilst
the few' theatres still open present a beggarly array of
empty benches the more popular placea of, amuseraent'are
crammed from floor to ceiling. By the way, when will
the various Australian authorities, allow a' really good
music-hall to be run on London lines, and visitors be'per-
mitted to have a modest glass of beer without having to
go next door for it? In London such a thing as a
drunken man is never seen in a musio-hall, and yet there
is no restriction in the matter of “ refreshment.”
Slab from.a new' drama by Maeterlinck, the man who is
wiping out Ibsen in the realistic business:-A princess
and, her attendant are out walking and meet a peasant.
The peasant remarks, “It’s a warm day.” The ladies
respond, “It tVa warm day.” Then the peasant adds,
“ I think it’s the sun that makes it so warm.” While the
ladies are considering the point the antiquated agricul-
turist remarks that he thinks he will have a swim in the
river, and proceeds to take off his clothes. The princess
and her attendant make a break for the woods, and the
flabbergasted peasant asks.them, “ What ! have you never
seen a man with no clothes on before ?” They don’t stop
to answer, and the curtain conies down just as the pea-
sant is getting so much undressed that the audience
begins to think of taking a header under the seats.
(Loud and general applause.)
Dear Elton, —Lionel Rignold can’t have your shoes,
because Lauri has one, and Courtneidge the other.
An English paper announces that, “In all Spanish
theatres one of the galleries (the eazeula) is reserved for
ladies alone, and not even an archbishop can gain admis-
sion to its sacred precincts.” Which statement, when it
is read slowly, evidently implies that it is a tough job to
keep an archbishop out of a place like that; also, that
when an archbishop can’t get in the ladies are very much
secluded indeed, and (hat the fence which a prelate w’On’t
climb "over under such circumstances is proof against
lightning, horned cattle, and all other dangers.
Kennedy, the magnetiser, has been somewhat dis-
counted in England, through his “subjects,” the regular
troupe, quarrelling and letting out cats.
“ Kyrle Bellew, the greatest idiot of them all(thehand
some actors), is not half so immodest as Mrs. Potter,”
says Gertrude Atherton.
A small actor named Hind came to Blake, the American
manager, one day and rated him for omitting his initials
from the bill. Blake didn’t know Hind’s initials, but said,
solemnly, “ Mr. Hind, this unpardonable omission shall he
rectified.” Next time the actors was billed thus—“So-
and So, by Mr. B. Hind.” “T. J. Hind” was called
“ Behind ” ever after. '
Mrs. Potter was, by last advices, at Carlsbad, looking
bad. They mostly do, even when it’s “ Amicable.”
Madame Carandini’s husband was a ballet-dancer, though
big and bulky, and figured as harlequin in Attorney
Tom Pavey’s Christmas pantomime, the first at Melbourne
Royal.
Miss Katherine Hardy, who goes to Maoriland with
Waller Bentley as the new leading lady, is a pupil of Miss
Adey Brunei!. Miss A. B. coached the fair aspirant in all
the Ophelian business and fixed up her costumes for the
tour.
Professor Marshall Hall, the Melbourne music crank,
gets worse instead of better. Last week, ere addressing
his handful of disciples on Musical Form and its Analogy
to Drama Form, he modestly told them “he bad prepared
a lecture which went so deeply into technique that he had
grave misgivings as to its intelligibility to a general audi-
ence,” therefore he thought it advisable to substitute a
yarn which “would appeal more directly to ordinary
minds.” A professor who finds a difficulty in adapting
his discourse to the common or garden kind of intellect
should confine his conversation to himself. In spite of
his good intention, the great Marshall Hall soared beyond
ordinary ken when he went on to explain that “until a
student succeeded in writing a noble melody it was too
soon for him to study the carrying on of the thought it
embodied.” By the same token an author would have to
write a noble book before he attempted; to consider what;
it was all about.


THIS
MEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(OIUiAMSF.H 1845)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1592, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLTjS
over all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Compapy, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
IiOMI STIIKET CHAMISEHS, SVDNRV, N.S.W.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROUGHEST& WATTS
(LIMITED),
BILLIARD TABLE lIAMI AIIIKHIIS
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and Indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND,
Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips, &c., &c.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time.
Address:—
O Et oriel £3tree L, Sydlrrey.
i Terry’ l * weekly salary is £150; Fred Leslie’s, £125.
1 ventriloquial comique, did an uncommonly
thing in a Manchester theatre lately. He was
c,eV^ o . tlv interrupted by a swell, in a stage box, where-
persn3tf‘ teilo got a ladder, mounted the box, and threw
upon L { . , ” p ro ved to he a wax figure) out upon the
tiie v
Btll - e ’ <• Richelieu ”on the boards again, in Melbourne,
U .i inks of the past. Here was a crack part of Brooke,
one “ iijvaii gave a subtle embodiment, but what could
and height of G. Y.’s magnificent rant, in “Thus do
ie l° w around her the circle of our Mother Church !”
I it \course there are lapses from the strict patli of
. ‘ am ong actors and actresses,” says the Age. There
are, there are !
, i es oharrington and Janet Achurch announce, per
»mns savs The Bulletin’s London correspondent,
going to set to work to purge the stage of
‘n-hf perilous stuff, and clear it of its impurities. With
i-intention they have, it is said, succeeded in forming
tluS ji ca te who have more money than head-stuffing, to
II nde the necessary funds to enable them to carry out
Herculean task. Amongst the names mentioned are
i -p of the Princess Christian (not much “oof" will
from that quarter). Lord Rothschild, Lady Carlisle,
°°H tour own Sir William Clarke, baronet. With regard
fihp last-named I have very grave doubts, even though
fh. rifted Janet herself hath said it. However, time,
hipfi unfoldeth all things, will no doubt prove whether
fhP renbrted syndicate exists in fact. As to the desire of
he Aoburch-Oharrington couple to commence the cleans-
r, ni-ocess there can be no doubt, for they have the
ivpinie Theatre on their hands, and have they not pro-
i pd Ibsen’s “Doll’s House” there as an earnest of
their proposed methods of purification ?
Peoi-ve Darrell, when last mail departed, was just
leaving London for South Africa with his wife on a six
months engagement to produce his own plays.
SalHe Booth is referred to by the Era as Mrs. J. 11.
Clyndes.
Floise Juno and George Ireland are on the road, with a
Irunatio company, in Victoria. When a new book comes
out take up an oid one—lreland has been 40 years, and
Juno 30, in Victoria.
Fitzgerald’s Circus winds up with the band playing
"Horae, Sweet Home,” instead of the nauseous
“National Anathema.’
Sydney Colville’s monologue and ventriloquial enter-
tainment at Sydney Alhambra has been a big sucoessandan
a'oreeab'e break in'the monotony of the minstrel business,
( olville intends touring as a one-man show'through
Maoriland, and will afterwards return to do Australia on
his own account.
Katherine Foote, of the Gaiety Co., is from Washington
(U.S.A.), and has just tinned 21. Her broad-brim is a
gift from “ Buffalo Bill.”
The Sydney benefit to the Misses Albu takes place at
die Garrick, Tuesday, Oct. 18.
Madame Soldene opens at Sydney Garrick on October
10 with “Genevieve de Brabant,” in which the new
serpentine dance will be introduced.
The Age, in its leader on the bigotry of Presbyterians
in opposing plays, stated “that no manager would en-
danger his popularity by producing immoral plays.”
“Frou Frou ” and “Camille" are pretty near the line.
And which pays—the legitimate or the leg-show ?
Teddy Solomon and “Pot” Stephens are once more
brithers. The result of their reconciliation is a new comic
opera, “ The Spanish Main,” for the rights „of w hich
Australian offers have already been made.
The great Isidore de Lara’s name is Israel Cohen.
E. J. Odell, whose name is a household word amongst
Bohemians-have Bohemians households, by the way?
has said many good things in his life, but the worst thing
he ever said was “No” when Henry Irving, in the most
delicate manner possible, offered him a retaining-fee of
£g a week—which really meant a salary for walking about
and doing nothing. When asked why he w T as such a fool
as to decline so good an offer, “ Old Erasmus’ ” reply was
that he had never had less than £lO a iveek.
Mayne’s “Richelieu,” at Melbourne Bijou, is to be
staged up to the standard of the oast, and promises to
make amends for a number of shag-bag benefit perform-
ances that have been given of late.
Charles Harding, at latest mail dates, was doing a turn at
London Pav., to the evident astonishment of such as love
to take their melody with booze and baccy. The Music
Hall says; “Never, within recollection, has there been
heard on the music-hall stage a more gifted vocalist than
Charles Harding. . . . These songs were rendered
with all the refinement and taste of a true artist. Enun-
ciation and intonation alike were perfect, and every deli-
cate nuance received its due share of attention, &c. A
splendid career on the halls should lie before so excep-
tionally gifted a sieger.” Here in Australia the
robustious Charles was regarded as the inartistic
possessor of a fine voice, and one fancies that his nuances
must be delicate only to the ears of music-hall critics.
However, perhaps he has learned to warble as alleged.
(Cable reports that Harding has been engaged (or “ Lago’s
opera season.”
Fourteen London theatres closed.
Mrs. Shaw, the whistler, who “filled the Albert Hall
with melody above the strains of a military baud,” seems
to have fascinated a Ceylon interviewer, who credits her
with “a superb set of teeth, the shape of the horse-shoe
being perfect, while the roof of the mouth is high.” The
lady is “ careful not to bite her lips or hurt them in any
way, and is developing th 6 muscles of her neck in a sur-
prising manner.-”
The true story of the death of Adelina Patti’s dog, a 8
told by the New York Herald : “ Madame Patti, who ha 8
expended £7,000 worth of melody and song on her Mexican
hairless dog, Ricci, during the last three years, sighed as
she turned (tom the cradle in which the unhappy animal
lay dying. The charming singer, her husband, and the
valet were in a parlour of the Windsor hotel, and there
was a sort of painful expectancy brooding over the scene
—as they say in shilling novels. The hairless dog,
wrapped up in blankets, had been placed before the fire.
Chicken soup and porterhouse steak had been offered him
during the day to tempt his appetite, but he turned from
them with a look that plainly said he was not long for this
world. La Diva had sung to him softly, and she was
weary of her long vigil, when she turned to Nicoiini path-
etically and said, ‘ Sing to him, Earnest; lam too tired,’
The tender-hearted husband of the prinia donna had been
a party to the vigil, and he, too, was exhausted. Never-
theless he prepared to obey the request, to see if the hair-
less dog could not he soothed into a restful sleep. The
hairless dog lay helpless, and dependent on his friends for
everything. He could not move a muscle. If the hotel
had caught fire he could not have escaped. The rich voice
of Nicoiini broke the stillness of the death-chamber, As
he raised himself in song the hairless dog cast a reproach-
ful look at his fair owner, glanced at the door, uttered a
low cry of pain, and shivered. He lay still after that, for
he was a dead pub.”
Erard and Co., the piano manufacturers, have given
Paderewski a specially-constructed instrument worth
£lOOO, for his use at all performances. In our mind’s
eye, we see the auctioneer of the future offering the piano
for sale to purchasers of bankrupt P.’s effects, and the
winning bid reaching £2OOO. Dr. Carver’s diamond ring,
presented to him by Dom Pedro, of Brazil, and valued at
£lOO, is now unobtainable at £5OO.
Tennyson invites Irving and Ellen Terry to his house,
Mid makes them listen to long readings of his new plays.
They are bored to death, but it gets in the papers.
A Melbourne pro. was much surprised recently when
t huge bouquet landed at his feet with a dull thud. He
discovered a neatly-folded note amongst the blossoms,
und opened it with a flourish. Short-lived triumph ! The
“note ” was his washerwoman's bill.
The Wild Cat Column.
A well-known and brilliant S.A. democratic
barrister thus in a private letter, writes of the Barrier
strike : “ I deplore strikes, hut as things are at present
they are Labour’s almost solitary weapon and though I
would seldom counsel a fight still, when a man is in one it
is just as well for him to stick to it like grim death, so
long as he has the power to inflict punishment—unless, of
course, he wishes to be unmercifully bounced by his
opponent on all possible opportunities in the future. I
hope you don’t think my views in this respect too bitter.
The present issue is a great one and well worth fighting
for.”
* * *
By managers, directors, and the capitalistic
press, it has been vehemently asserted that there is no
desire on anybody’s part to lower the rate of wages at
Broken Hill, but the contractors are busy engaging men
at Bs. 4d. a shift—£2 10s. a week instead of £3. By the
way, how diligently the blackleg wants of Messrs. Baxter
and Saddler have been advertised gratis by the daily
press ! Their yearning for cheap, energetic pick-and-
shovel men has been mentioned gratis under black cross-
headings in every daily every day for a month. How the
Mammonites hang together!
# # *
“Melbourne Argus gives a list of 47 local private
liquidations by arrangement—outside the courts— involv-
ing two and a-quarter millions sterling. Of these, four
paid Id. in the £ ; two, Jd. ; eleven, Id.; six, l^d.; seven,
6d. ; four, Is. ; one, Is. Id.; one, Is. 6d. ; two, 25.; three,
2s. 6d. ; three, 3s. ; one, ss. ; one, 7s. ; and one, 19s. lid.
Total liabilities, £2,280,000; total dividends, about£6s,B2o;
average, not quite 7d. in the £. In addition to these, 20
others are understood to be in progress, B. J, Fink’s
being in the latter lot.
* # #
There is a general desire in Melbourne to know
whether Fink, Bingy-Bingy, and others of the insolvent
gang are still “ representative men,” and, if so, what do
they represent?
* * *
The modern Melbourne speculator tosses up his
coin with odds in his favour. “Heads I win a million ;
tails I lose ninepeuce, or thereabouts.”
* m *
Reported from Melbourne that some of B. J.
Fink’s creditors are dissatisfied with his composition of a
halfpenny in the £. Think of that! Actually dissatisfied !
# # #
Six thousand damages claimed by millionaire
Monahan’s executors against Nimmo, Ferguson, Dow,
and the other directors of the Melbourne Premier
Permanent. As the law stands, it is maintained that
these already much-tortured people must try to sweat
clots of coin.
# 9
Broken Hill shares, says our London corres-
pondent by last mail, went up with a bound on the cabled
lie that the strike of miners was at an end. They have
since relapsed though still above the point they were at
ten days ago. A yarn has been put about that Wilson is
a buyer “at a price.”
* • #
The Victorian Full Court, after a month or so
of masterly silence, has announced ‘ that Taylor and
Clarke were properly convicted of conspiracy to defraud
the Land Credit Bank, and they have gone to Pentridge
accordingly. This custom of reserving judgment has
grown into another Melbourne scandal. When learned
Judges require weeks in which to decide upon a point of
law there must be an awful want of clearness in either
themselves or the article they administer.
# * #
Agent-Geueral Munro’s “explanation” of the
La Rose Estate mystery is painfully lame. His figures are
clear enough, however. In 1885—and at that time the
Boom had fairly started —the estate was valued at £16,000.
Put up for auction in ’B6 it couldn’t command a better bid
than £ 15,000 , at which price executor Munro refused to
sell. Presently Jack Woods, the “general overseer” of
the property, came along with an offer of £28,000, which,
considering the gentleman’s private circumstances, was a
decidedly hold speculation. Moreover, Woods became
the purchaser on these terms without having any appar-
ent idea of cutting up the property. “About this time
Mr. Munro formed the Real Estate Bank, on the sug-
gestion of his friends,” whereupon “Woods came to the
directors and asked if they would take over the La Rose
Estate.” The bank consented to oblige, hut Munro, at
this distance of time, has quite forgotten the price paid
to Woods. It was £54,000, and proved, says the indig-
nant James, “a good investment for the bank.” In the
face of which narrative The Bulletin wonders that Woods
died a “ broker,” and that the possibility of aiinu"mgthe
whole transaction has been darkly hinted at.
• • «
The N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges apparently
hold the opinion that no man has any right to obtain
relief from the Insolvency laws unless he is in easy cir-
cumstances after filing his schedule. In May last they
imposed a set of general rules which require a bankrupt
who appeals to the Full Court to file printed copies of a
lot of documents, including all the evidence and exhibits
relative to the matter, and before a bankrupt can obtain
a discharge he is required to pay all the costs, charges,
and expenses of the official assignee, which may be un-
settled out of his estate. It will be necessary, therefore,
for anyone who may contemplate seeking relief under the
law to have a small fortune to pay expenses with. The
Judges really seem to be of opinion that “ the benefit of
the Act” should be one of the privileges of the rich.
• » •
One of the probable side results of the land-
grant-railway boom in North Queensland will be the fore-
closure of bank-mortgages on Northern properties, from
the realisation of which the financial institutions expect
to gather much “ unearned increment,”
« 9 *
The funniest of all the “tentacular” Melbourne
companies is an intitution which sold properties for
immense sums on paper and got no money, hut paid
hard cash dividends out cf the depositors’ coin!
# * *
One of the companies which accepted a half-
penny in the £ composition in a certain Melbourne paper
“billionaire’s” estate, is forcing into bankruptcy a poor
man who offered it 12s. 6d, in the £.
* * #
Speaker Bent hoped aloud at the meeting of the
shareholders and depositors of the Melb. Mercantile
Bank, that they “would show the best side to London.”
Apropos, the opinion amongst the ex-boomers is: “For
heaven’s sake, don’t gaol any of us—it would be such a
bad advertisement for the country !”
* * *
The assets of a “busted” Sydney bank were
officially estimated, at the commencement of the revealed
ruin, at £25,000. The depositors contemplate with dumb
amazement the ponderousness of'the liquidatory legal
and other arrangements, and hope they will be able to see
the dividend, when it comes, with a microscope.
* * *
The “pnsh ” of a Sydney “bank,” now up the
spout, used to have a decoy posted outside the bank
premises during the busiest hours of the day, on watch
for “ things.” At the right time the decoy would rush in,
brace himself up furiously against the counter, unload
from his pockets dazzling handfuls of gold, amazing piles
of notes, crumpled-up cheques, &c., and go painfully and
methodically through the “business” of checking-off the
particulars and filling-in a deposit slip. This dodge was
worked with contagious effect.
# * #
It would be interesting to know how much the
N.S.W. Mines Department laboratory, &c., understood to
have been originally instituted for the benefit of the work-
ing miner, costs the State, in addition to the regular
salaries yearly set down, and baldly stated at £2450.
Public rumour avers that the laboratory is regarded by
the “ knowing ” M.P. as having been created for especial
benefit of himself and his mates, and that a not incon-
siderable portion of the work done in the assay depart-
ment relates to likely-looking geological specimens
forwarded to the care of members who follow up on a
“champerty” understanding, in the Lands and Mines
Department, any good cues. A return of the amount of
work done for members of Parliament, and full informa-
tion as to the promptitude displayed in executing their
orders as compared with those of the lone-hand working
miner, should be most instructive.
* # #
Why not abolish all mineral leases for ground
containing what are termed “the precious metals,” and
let the country be developed solely on miner’s rights? It
would probably pay the Treasury better; it would
certainly kill off the pestiferous city scrip-gambler who
floats wild-cat mines and hawks about for sale shares in
areas of barren flint and useless conglomerate, and lives
Qn the magnificence of his own lies and the vacuous
gullibility of his simple dupes.
* * *
The move to increase the shares of the Victory
mine from 100,000 to 500,000 is only another attempt to
send up the market-value. The game is played out. The
Victory is a good mine, and Can’t be improved by increas-
ing or decreasing its shares, and, as there can be no good
motive in the proposal, we hope it will be knocked on the
head.
# # #
One N.S.W. gold-mine is being re-organised in
the familiar, old, evil-smelling style. If 4000 “ fully paid-
up ” 10s. shares are given away, how are they “ paid-up,”
and what is the consideration for them ? Then there are
04,000 10s. shares, “paid up to 7s. Bd.” each, offered to
original shareholders at 2d. per share. There may be no
concealment in all this, but to openly avow a deception
does not do away with the deception. A monte mags-
man, who tells you that you can’t “pick the Lady Queen,”
is quite as candid as the man who tells you a tuppenny
share is worth 10s,
# # #
At last the Great Amalgamated Go. of Hill End
has had a crushing—6o tons, 32ozs. of gold—nothing
startling. While to many this yield is disappointing, we
understand that if that average is maintained it will pay,
« * *
As with Pambula and other places, the writer
was called bad names because of his warning note con-
cerning the Marvel mine. As in other cases he patiently'
waited for time to defend him. It has done so; the
crushing, which was predicted to go many ozs., went
loz., and shares have fallen to one-third their value.
# # *
The True Blue, Croydon, is evidently going for
a very big crushing, as we hear nearly every week that
180 and 190 ozs. of gold have been taken from the plates.
The information is too much or too little. What is the
reason for retorting the plate-amalgam weekly? Is the
gold fine or rough? If fairly fine two-thirds would be
outside, if fairly rough at least two-thirds would remain
in the boxes. How much gold taken from plates up to
date? It can be understood how confounding this infor-
mation can be made by one newspaper publishing a return
one week and another the same return a week later.
Shares are gradually rising. Over 20,000 True Blue shares
were purchased and sent to London over three months
ago. Having a responsible and reliable representative on
the field, a man of 30 years’ experience whose draft for
half-a-million they are ready to honour, some London
people got in at about one-fourth the present price.
* # #
The Magdala-CM»t-Moonlight mine (Stawell,
Vie.) is turning out gold cakes from half-oz. quartz. This
mine ruined many a Victorian mining man. For many
years it was renowned for enterprise in “ going down,”
and in their mad eagerness to “keep sinking” they
passed unnoticed, at about 1000 feet, the ore-body which
a new company has since successfully worked.
’# # #
After submitting for two years to the crushing
10 per cent, gross royalty, the Sunlight Co. are trying to
crush the owners of the freehold by crushing with only 10
heads instead of 40. By this means they hope to bring
them to a more reasonable state of mind. Their first pro-
posal to erect a concentrating plant if the royalty were
reduced having been declined, they are now picking the
eyes out of the mine, whereby a reef which averages Joz.
is made up to loz. Once the owners were pitied because
of the royalty—they were even supposed to have been got
at. Time has reversed the pity.
# # #
Jensen’s mine, Pine Creek, Port Darwin, has
recently been purchased by some “ ’cute ” sea-captains for
£7OOO, an amount which does not represent one-twentieth
of the gold which Jensen took out of it. Past richness is
no evidence of present value, but if hall we hear is true,
Jensen is repenting at leisure a sale made in haste.
# * #
Disaster has overtaken the Spa and Jessop
hydraulic sluicing companies, on the Shoalhaven River.
Their dam, built at a cost of some £6OOO, was
burst by the recent big storm which raged over N.S.W,
Had the bank held firm they would have secured, at any
rate a year’s supply. The chances are that a year will
now elapse ere the dam is repaired and full of water.
Some months ago the writer, accompanied by a well-
known mining-engineer, inspected, the dam, the bank of
which was then in progress, and heard the workmanship
of that part which has burst condemned. The impetus
which The Bulletin predicted for the field as soon as the
companies started their gigantic works has been inde-
finitely postponed. How this dam-work must have been
damned last week in Melbourne 1
# * #
It is alleged, upon good authority, that the
Maoriland Government has a gigantic engineering feat in
view. The idea is to dam the outlets of the three great
lakes, Wakatipu, Wanaka, and Hawea—a work which, it
is believed, could be done at comparatively small expense.
It is estimated that by closing the dams when the lakes
are at their lowest level it will be possible to keep them
shut for 12 days at a time without flooding the surround-
ing country. This will practically reduce' the Molynenx,
that river of golden sands, to the level of a huge ditch.
Then all the gold diggers in the land will be let loose on
the river bottom, and the wash dirt, which is now dredged
out slowly and painfully, and with comparatively small
profit, will be removed by the square mile and stacked on
the bank ready for treatment. The dams will be closed
whenever the lakes are low enough to permit of the pro-
cess, and it is anticipated that in a year or two all the
accumulated millions in the bed of the Molyneux will he
dug out, and the river itself deepened to. such an extent
that there will be no more disastrous floods in these parts
for at least a century.
* # #
Hillgrove (N.S.W.) is just now chiefly pheno-
menal for mine-lessees who are successful in obtaining
prolonged suspensions of labour conditions, and for crowds
of unemployed miners. Cause and effect.
# # •
It is stated that the lode at Hazelhurst mine,
Parkes, N.S.W,, split up into a series of small veins when
a hard body of diorite was reached. It was a splendid
run of gold down to the diorite. Exactly the same thing
occurred at that awful disappointment, Gold Hill. Our
experience has been that small lodes on or near the sur-
face seldom live in the deeper hard diorite country. It
points a moral: If you want to know what your mine is
really worth, keep your main shaft going.
# # #
Now reported that there are 100 tons of seconds
on the Pambula mine. Where are the many hundreds of
tons of seconds we heard so much of months ago—ore
that was estimated to return between one and two ozs. to
the ton? Certainly they have not been crushed, though
the shareholders have been.
# # #
George Lansell is still investing heavily in
several Bendigo mines, and lately bought 18,000 shares in
one which had ceased operations for want of cash.
# * # ”
Rook vale, N.S.W., appears to be going from
bad to worse; recent cnishings have gone down 4o a ;■
couple of dwts. to the tort, and shared to a few pence.
The directors have had an expert to teport on the existing
state of things; he finds that the mine is.all right, but
that the gold is lost in the tailings. It is a blue look-otit
in such a case. He makes a number of suggestions ; some
pertinent, and some very weak. Here is something he
does not say. It is the same old game—erecting a 30-head
battery at a cost of thousands ere the lode’s value is
proved beyond question. Situated within 15 miles of
Hillgrove it would have been easy to test hundreds of tbns
of average stone. If satisfactory, the Vale people might
have proceeded with the battery, if not, the money In-
volved in its erection, probably the best part Of £5OOO.
would have been saved.
fc * #
“ Fair Play ” —the favourite ndm de plume of the
secret partisan—writes to the Argus: —“The typical
financial ‘scandal’’’ (but why the “qrtote?”)“ is, of
course, the Mercantile Hank ; but about its affairs we
have as yet nothing but the ex parte statement of a com-
mittee. . . . Everyone seems to forget that the other
side has yet to be heard.” It’s “ Fair Play ” who suffers
from a bad memory. He;, or she (for perhaps a lady
friend of Matthew Davies wrote the letter) forgets that
the directors have -already been heard in their ex parte
statement that the Mercantile was a flourishing concern.
Didn’t Graham Berry celebrate his return to Victoria by
publicly sOolding everybody who dared to breathe a sus-
picion against the solidity of an institution which had
held a certificate of virtue from a Speaker and an Agent-
General ?
m * *
The Mining Standard has had a special
reporter dealing with mines and tnachinery in BendigO,
and —teaching his grandmother how to suck eggs, tie is
astounded at the absence of stone-breakers, automatic
feeders and vanners at the batteries there, and puts it all
down to “conservatism and dunderheadedness.” Per-
haps he will be astounded to hear that the Writer has seeh
stone-breakers and self-feeders thrown out on Bendigo
after a long trial, they Certainly were not thrown out
because they “ increased the crushing Capacity &> per
cent.” Vanners are under rtiany conditions splendid
concentrators, but they are slow, therefore expensive*
and require constant and careful adjustment—small
matters, true, when they suit the ore, but with the clean,
heavy pyrites of Bendigo excellent concentration can be
got by the use of a cheaper and simpler machine known
as Halley’s percussion-table, which will take the work of
two or three vanners at one-third the first cost, the
same “conservatism and dunderheadedness” has given
Bendigo the deepest gold-mines in the world, and the
finest crushing and winding machinery. Would that
there were more of it in N.S.W., which has been made the
dumping-ground of every quack-machine that was going
to concentrate every particle of pyrites and save 99 pet
Cent, of gold. Failing dismally to educate, “the special”
has abundantly artlused the Belidigonians.
#' * *
judged from crushings when there is water
(which is very seldom) the Mt. Allen mine ih the far West
of N.S.W. seems a good thing. The last report says 260
ozs. of amalgam have been lifted from the plates from 57
tons. As the gold is very fine, at least two-thirds of the
gold would be on the plates, and 260 ozs. amalgam should
return about 65 ozs. gold. Why don’t they crush dry?
# # #
Arthur Forbes, late of Bananaland, (writes our
London correspondent) now in business in London as
a stockbroker, is doing a great deal to raise the
value of Queensland mining shares. At the present
moment he is doing more business than any mining
broker in the city. Golden Gates are now on the boom,
two dividends having been declared for September and
October. Each of the old shares have been exchanged for
three in the reconstructed company at 10s. each fully
paid. These sell freely at 14s. to 15s. cum divs.
* * *
Lumley-Hill mediated in the Muldiva (Q.)
mine trouble, with the result that, while most of the
men left, enough stayed on at a 15 per cent, reduction in
wages to keep work going. The correspondence is
Chesterfieidian. The miners thank Hill for his “ gentle-
manly courtesy;” Hill replies that they furnished him
with his model. Humph.
# * *
R. I. W. Pound, the man who was arrested two
years ago for stealing the platinum which didn’t exist in
the Otway Ranges, died the other day. His executors
have since found the missing “ platinum ” buried under
the floor of his “ works.” It was only lead after all, but
that lead was all the platinum the Otway Ranges ever
produced.
* * *
The Broken Hill (N.S.W.) Police Magistrate,
the other day, fined a man ss. for “boohooing,” in order
“ to show that the offence is punishable by law,” adding
—and the remark shows clearly the irritation that was in
his Worship’s mind—“l cannot, myself, pass without
being insulted.” Every case should be heard on its own
merits and without reference to personal grievances. If
the P.M. is insulted, he should at once give the insuiter
in charge, or summon him. The Bench is not the place
from which to air general complaints.
Broken Hill strikers are to be tried at the
squatting town of Deniliquin.
“We never before saw a woman’s feet,”
writes a naive journalist, after having his tea
served by a barefooted Killarney lass.
Barton, Copeland and Dibbs kept abso-
lutely “stiff upper-lips” during the N.S.W, no-
confidence debate. The rest of the Ministry were
in a pitiable state of nervous trepidation.
The N.S.W. Labour-party really meant
their last week’s vote to bring about a dissolution,
and reckon that if they could now go to the polls,
they would return with reinforced ranks.
The new time-table of the Port Jackson
3.5. Co., based on a two-boat, three-crew service,
doesn’t appear to fully please all the Manly people,
who have for years apparently been absolutely
indifferent concerning the monstrousness of the
crews’ hours of work. Under the new arrange-
ment, the men. will have to be on duty only 70
hours a week or so; up to now, they have worked
close on if not quite 100 hours weekly, year in
year out. “ Eight hours’ day !” Why there are
hundreds of people still working fourteen hours
every day of their lives.
In N.S.W. Assembly, the other day, Sir
G. Republican Dibbs was constrained to realise
his folly in relieving Queen Victoria of a gewgaw.
In the course of a speech on the motion of censure
Tommy Walker ejaculated “Howl wish I could
call him‘Mr.’ Dibbs!” —a sentiment which the
House evidently shared, for it was warmly cheered
all round. - The story used to be told that neither
Parkes nor Robertson could afford, when first
offered the bribe, to pay the charge for a knight
hood. And as Dibbs is reputed not to be a mil
lionaire, the question arises whether it would not
strengthen the bonds, &c., if the Legislative
Assembly were to advise Her Gracious to present
her accounttotheStateTreasurer, PerhapsToohey,
M.L.A., will have the goodness to ascertain if the
price of the bauble is included in Dibbs’ general-
expenses.


PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
Young and old, short and tall, say GSUN
Darlings the best of all.
Caution : Each GNUN Darling is branded
“GNU N.” Refuse all others.
ẃ
IVLXJSITD
YOUR
EYES!
CSSS' BUY GLASSES from clever, experienced Opticians, .and not from Jewellers, Iron-
mongers, Street Hawkers, and such like.
The name of FROST and SIiIPHAM, the Spectacle Makers, is famous throughout
Australia. They have made the science of optics, as applied to the eyes, a special study, and
being practical Spectacle Makers as well, their advice should be worth having. On application,
they will forward (without any charge) to any address, their new treatise, “EYESIGHT
PRESERVED: Spectacles their use, when required, and how to purchase,” together with,
tests for trying the eyes and full price-lists.
BE ADVISED ! YOUR SIGHT IS PRECIOUS ! It costs you no more to get
Spectacles from clever, skilful people than from inexperienced dealers.
I Finest Brazilian Pebbles a Speciality. Spectacles, &c., Repaired; Pebble Frames, &,c., Fitted.
r?T“ WRITE-It is no trouble to answer questions.
FROST
SHIPHAM (E. A. OSBORN and H. S. JERDAH, Sole Proprietor:;) 462, 474 and 587 George Street, SYDNEY.
SPECTACLES -a-iriei the best.
Personal Items.
The Griffo of the Bar—Salomons, Q 0.
That lady representative of The Times is
genuine, we suppose.
On dit that Pilcher’s brief in the Abigail
case is marked 200 guineas.
Yesterday—7th Oct.—was the first anni-
versary of the death of C. S. Parnell.
The last edition of Victorian Men of the
Time is becoming a funnier book every day.
A well-known Australian bookseller says
he is worth £lBO,OOO less than he was two years
ago.
Lady Jersey was present at the want-of-
confidence division in N.S.W. Assembly last
F riday.
There are only two clergymen members of
Melbourne Yorick club, and they are R.C.
priests.
David Syme is importing a number of
Kerry cows. David, we thought, took no stock
in Ireland.
Sir Thomas Elder has received £109,926
from the S. \. Government in payment for pas-
toral improvements !
Sir John Downer and Attorney-General
Stock are the only clean-shaven men in the South
Australian Parliament.
German and French translations of Marcus
Clarke’s “ His Natural Life ” will shortly appear
almost simultaneously.
The anti-Speight-railway articles were
written by an expert— i.e., by a journalist who
used to be an engine-driver.
Sir Henry Parkes has been made an
honorary member of the Institute of Bankers.
Honorary ! It makes one smile.
Dr. Cockburn (S.A.) says he “does not
intend to patent his recipe for curing olives, but
prefers to give it to the world gratis.”
Richard Jones, founder of the Maitland
(N.S.W.) Mercury, left £85,000 behind him, but
it was not made out of the Mercury.
J. F. Hogan, late of the Geelong (Vic.)
Advertiser, narrowly missed being a member of
the British Commons at last general election.
It is related that a recently-deceased West
Australian who left £5OO for religious purposes
was not known to wash himself once during 30
years.
Who was the Australian Minister of Rail-
ways who used to take a special train (at State
expense) to run up and see his girl while his wife
was alive ?
Adelaide Quiz : “ There are several John-
sons in the world, but there is only one Johnson
who thinks there is only one Johnson.” We are
acquainted with that Johnson.
It is said that ex-Premier Parkes is about to
enter an action against an ex-legislator for certain
alleged libels contained in letters published simul-
taneously in several newspapers.
John Moule and Dr.- Cockburn are ad-
mittedly the handsomest men in the S.A. Assem-
bly, while Premier Holder and Hopkins run a
dead-heat for the ugly man prize.
The Bishop of Grafton and Armidale, who
is about to leave N.S. Wales for England, while in
Australia enjoyed a salary of £530 a year. He can
thus hardly have made a fortune.
A scion of a well-known Sydney family
lost close on £lOO,OOO in gambling with the Prince
of Wales’ set, and had to part with a portion of
the ancestral property to make it up.
Parkes has made his will—with the utmost
privacy. The public are not to be informed of his
decease until after his interment. The place of
his burial is to be kept a profound secret.
Ex-Judge M‘Farland, having returned to
practice, claims to be the father of the N.S.W.
Bar. He was called in 1847 ; Mr. G. B. Simp-
son’s year was 1858. It doesn’t matter much,
anyhow.
According to an English paper most of
Kipling’s money went in the New Oriental smash.
“The Light that Failed” coined a lot of money
for Kipling, and then the bank that failed scooped
it in, and left him stranded.
Field Barrett, the Melbourne attorney,
who lately descanted in Court on the immoralities
of coffee-palaces, originated the immortal dictum :
“ Members of the Australian Natives’ Association
ought to be moderately moral.”
Editor Fitchett has many nice things to
say about boomers Munro and Davies : Both are
men who would have supplied new and shining
examples for a revised edition of ‘ Men who have
Risen.’” “Rockets that have Risen’’would be
better.
James M'Kean, the gigantic Melbourne
solicitor, who has been made co respondent in a
divorce-suit, strenuously denies the charge.
James began life in Australia as a cook up-
country, and later on was a news-agent in Mel-
bourne.
Miss Caroline Leane, whose writings (pen
name “Agnes Neale”) have been tolerably
familiar to South Australian readers, died on 22nd
Sept. Douglas B. W. Sladen, himself a woeful
poet, once styled her “ the Adelaide Proctor of
South Australia.”
Lord Rosebery, according to a lickspittle
current paragraph, had made up his mind, before
he was out of his teens, to become Prime Minister
one day, and this is cited as an instance of his
lordship’s “ immense ambition.” But a bricklayer
who made up his mind to become an earl would
be far more ambitious than that.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
A half-length portrait of Sir Thomas
MTlwraith (sent up for sale from Sydney) was
lately offered in Brisbane. The highest bid was
nine shillings. The reserve price is five guineas,
and reasonable offers will be entertained.
Dr. W. F. Darley, Q.C., of Dublin,
brother of Chief Justice Darley of Sydney, has
resigned his post of County Court Judge in
a tiff, because the Government wouldn’t give
him assistance to do the business of 21) revision
courts.
Fergus Hume will shortly publish another
book, which will probably be called “ A Vision of
Life.” By the way, “Jim” Hume, brother of the
“Hansom Cab’’man, is an assistant-surveyor
under the Melbourne Metropolitan Board of
W orks.
Handsome Charley Lett, formerly of the
N.S.W. Justice Department (who years ago was
the idol of all the Sydney women and the envy of
all the Sydney men), has been gazetted Curator
of the N.S.W. Exhibit at the Imperial Institute,
London.
Besides Fitchett, there is a Reverend
Fitoher in the ranks of the Melbourne Wesleyan
clergy. A generation back he was known on
Bendigo as “ Dick ” Fitcher, a promising young
actor of the G. V. Brooke school, but he mended
his ways.
If Tom Bent did not stick to Matthew
Davies he would be guilty of base ingratitude, for
a few years ago—after the time when ho beat him
by one vote for the Victorian Speakership—Sir
Matthew helped his quondam opponent out of a
very close financial corner.
The cablegram stating that Sir H. B.
Loch declares that it was Lord Elgin, and not Sir
George Grey, who “saved India” by diverting
the China expedition is sure to provoke an in-
teresting discussion. Sir George Grey’s claims,
to the present writer’s knowledge, do not rest
upon his own word alone.
AN OVERSIGHT.
Bummington returned from his club the other night rather late. He might have sue-
ceeded in convincing his wife that he was perfectly sober had ho not forgotten to take his
belltopper off when he knelt by her side in silent prayer.
Cue Wilcox, a ragged, dirfc-encvusfced
miser, died the other day of starvation at Lower
Hutt, near Wellington, Maoriland. He was
found to be worth £25,000, made years ago as a
lucky digger. Brothers and sisters living in
America inherit his pile.
J. G. Russell, Commissioner of Insolvency,
will probably be the next lawyer to receive’ pro-
motion to the Adelaide Supreme Court Bench.
There are but three Judges in the province, but
for the last two years only two of these have been
in South Australia at one time.
A Queensland 'backblocks official totters
round under the burthen of his name : Reginald
Geoffray Youngman Carruthers Xenophon
M . When he witnesses an affidavit he earns
his money. His alphabetical museum goes right
across the page and round the corner.
A well-known Bananalander—who married
perhaps the loveliest girl of an altogether loveable
and plucky family—is “up the spout,” and failed
to put in an appearance at the first meeting of his
creditors at London Bankruptcy Court. This is
supposed to be a very grave offence and is visited
with all kinds of pains and penalties when they
get hold of the delinquent.
What has become of the Melbourne land-
boomer, G. W. Taylor? He was the first to come
into prominence with his offer to endow the Con-
gregational denomination with £lO,OOO a year
for five years. Then he went to England, and the
last heard of him he was im.meuvring to get into
the House cf Commons, ala Heaton. Taylor made
the running for Davies, who went one better, or
worse.
We read that “ On arrival at Grafton Max
O’Rell was met at the wharf and driven to his
hotel in Mr. Sam See’s carriage.” “ Sam See”—
very Chinese, this. Now we understand why
Treasurer See, instead of calling his latest infant
Ah See, or anything like that, enlisted the good
offices of the Earl of Jersey and got the youngster
christened “ Villiers Grafton.” “John” See is
bad enough, but had the Treasurer’s name been
Sam See the circumstance would have wrecked
Gee Ah Dibbs in a week.
Charlie Kingston, Q.C. (S.A.) would give
his eyes to defend the Broken Hill strike-leaders.
He can’t, however, for he is not a member of the
N.S.W. bar. It’s high time this close corporation
were broken up. Jos. Syraon, Q.C., who leads
the S. A. bar, may not appear except in his own
province; his brother, who is not a patch on Jos.,
is an. English barrister and can appear anywhere.
E. P. Nesbit, who runs Jos. close, is likewise
restricted, whilst the youngest and stupidest man
who has been called to the English bar can turn
up m any British court.
W. L. Mullen, the young medico and
barrister, of Melbourne, who with Dr. Spring-
thorpe hold forth before the Medical Congress
last week on the “plea of insanity in criminal
trials,” spends his time between his den in Bel-
borne Chambers and his consulting-room in
Collins-street. For some time he was “resident ”
in one of the mad-houses of Victoria. R. H.
Cole, the barrister, has lately returned to Mel-
bourne after an absence of five years in Europe,
where he got a medical degree. Like Mullen, he
means to mix law and medicine.
Dear Bulletin, —Speaking of Chicago
Colonel Campbell’s remark, “As a statesman G.
R. Dibbs is the Jerry Simpson of Australia,” you
ask, “Who is Jerry Simpson?’ Jerry Simpson
is now well-known all over the States as the
“Bookless Statesman,” representing in Congress
the Farmers’ Alliance party of Kansas, He has
most enormous feet, and during his first speech
in Congress, whilst denouncing the pot-hat
brigade, boasted that he had never worn socks in
his life. Alas, however, like Ex-Republican
Dibbs, he has now gone back on his principles,
is a very dude of dudes, and has completely lost
the respect of his party.— Medicus.
Pater, the deceased Adelaide P.M.,
despite his reputation for penuriousness, left only
.£3OOO. James Green, the old-established family
burglar, once called on Pater at the expiration of
one of his many sentences, and asked some assist-
ance to enable him to “keep straight,” and the
penurious one promptly handed him ,£1 with his
best wishes. Judging by the small amount of his
pile it seems probable that Pater had a craze for
secretly assisting reformed burglars ; anyhow, he
looked like a man who would leave £30,000
behind him, and no one can offer any other
explanation as to where the money went.
Villeneuve Smith (the brogueless Towns-
end Macdermott of South Australia), who is to
defend the leaders of the Broken Hill strike, is
one of the celebrities of the Australian bar. His
hair is fearfully and wonderfully made-up, and he
is younger than he was 60 years ago. His eye-
glass is as persuasive as his tongue. His manner
is courtesy personified. Not long ago he was
leading in a case against Sir John Downer. At
luncheon hour he invited his opponent to take
a peg of whisky. “No, thanks,” said Sir John,
“I’ve just had one.” “ Sir,” said Villeneuve, “I
scorn to take even that advantage of you.” So he
pegged level, and then the learned twain imbibed.
The hubbub among the devotees of the
London Tabernacle as to whether young Tommy
Spurgeon should accede to the pastorate left
empty by the death of his pa, or whether that
pulpit should be filled by a Yankee parson, should
be easy to decide. Australia has a severe memory
of a very commonplace young man who made a
preaching tour around its cities, and who was
pointed out as the offspring of “ the great
Spurgeon.” The writer had once to go to Albert-
street Baptist Church, Melbourne, and report the
youngster’s work for a daily paper. Only one
memory of the preacher’s sermon now remains :
“ I don’t know, I’m shuah, why I should bespoken
of so highly everywheah, unless it is because I’m
the son of my fathah.” The writer didn’t know
why either.
Rev. Lorimer Fison, editor of the (Mol
Spectator, is a Wesleyan with a backbon
well as considerable of a humorist. He edhbe 8
paper with his coat and boots off, and % & taa
big, old pipe in his mouth. He relates that f at ’
before his ordination, he was sent for bv tho u JUsfc
of examiners. “Mr. Fison, your paners d
excellent, but there is one thing we obier.i- *. are
Fison asked what it was. “You are irlri: t ,
Mr. Fison, to the evil habit of smoking ” p- ’
explained that he saw no evil in it, but taldn B°n 8 ° n
large plug from his pocket, said, “In deference i- 8,
your opinion, gentlemen, I promise you tliis a°
soon as I have smoked the plug I hold in my ha a
I will cease smoking for ever.” They -1-
satisfied, and he was ordained next day. But 6
he re-fills the big pipe, he chuckles and "tells vn^
yet I” k6Pt my W ° rd ‘ rve got thafc ver y plug
When the Queensland tariff was framed,
among the “lines ” was this “Nuts : Barcelona
and all other nuts, 2d. per lb.” A northern Cus-
toms official once telegraphed to his chief to ask it
iron nuts were included in the list ?
Wolfe's Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations.
In West Australia a favourite dish in many
country towns is kangaroo and pork. Out back
the people eat opossums, and seem to relish them.
The flavour of the W.A. marsupials somewhat
differs from that of those found in the East.
Wolfe’s Schnapps —.£l orders.
Stuart Knill, the newly-elected Lord
Mayor of London, is to be commended for his
resolute refusal to personally attend the customary
mayoral services according to the Anglican
Church ritual, at St. Paul’s Cathedral. The dis-
graceful scenes enacted (as per cable) at his elec-
tion are tellingly illustrative of the bad blood
fomented between credal sections of the English
people by the existence of an Established Church.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Pure, Palatable, Perfect,
The best supply of artesian water yet
obtained in N.S. Wales is that tapped at the
Moongulla bore, between Angledool and Collar-
endabri. This bore has two peculiarities—it is
the deepest and most easterly in the province. It
is 2570 ft. in depth, and is situated on the extreme
limit of what is supposed by geological experts to
be the water-yielding country in N.S.W.
£l-order with large bottle of W olfe’s Schnapps
Dyspepsia, flatulence, sour stomach, wind,
and spasms are frequently due to liver complaint,
very often complicated by kidney sympathy, &c.
Brain workers and those persons whose employ-
ment is of a sedentary nature are most troubled
by these complaints. An eminent physician, who
made such cases a special study, found that the
ingredients of Dr. Fletcher’s Pills were the most
successful for such complaints, and embodied
them in the prescription from which these pills
are prepared. They are prepared on scientific
principles, are absolutely free from calomel or any
dangerous drug. They act by generous stimula-
tion of the hrepatic glands, and do not gripe or
purge, but produce a natural catharsis, and thus
relieve the over-loaded alvine tract of the accumu-
lated fsecal matter without the pain and annoy-
ance so frequently experienced after using drastic
purgatives. Mrs. W. Walker, Pitt-street, Sydney,
says:—“Dr. Fletcher’s Pills cured me of chronic
constipation of ten years standing, and I can
conscientiously recommend them. They are
sold everywhere by chemists and storekeepers.
For Is. 3d. will be posted from The Bul-
letin Office, Sydney, to any Australasian address
a copy of The Bulletin’s “ History of Botany
Bay,” illustrated by Hop. and Phil. May : or,
a copy of “ Tales of the Convict System,’’by “Price
Waning.” The cheaper edition of “A Golden
Shanty ” is now out of print; a cloth-bound copy
will be mailed to any Australian address for 2s.
A Reminiscence of the Palmer.
[FOR THE BULLETING]
They kept coming along in batches, and every w
we met asked the same monotonous Quest;,,/
“How far water?” They were heavily-laden’
their bamboos bending under the weight of th ’
large packages suspended at either end, although'
now and then, a swell Chow of some sort walked
in the midst, carrying nothing weightier than an
umbrella. One lagging wight was some distance
behind the last detachment, and as he limped un
he repeated the inevitable question—“Howfnl
water ?” 111
“ One hundred miles,” said Joe, who was
short-tempered. b
“One hunlert mile?” repeated the Chinaman
aghast, and forgetting his sore feet he set off at
the double after his companions.
We were still laughing at his fright, when we
caught sight of a tent alongside the road, and on
reaching it, pulled up. We were on our road to
Cooktown from the Palmer at the time.
The flaps of the tent were down, and no one
answered our hail. Joe got down and looked in.
He started back. I dismounted and joined him
and peered into the tent.
A man was lying on his blankets, apparently
dead or very ill, for he was quite motionless. W 6
found, on examination, that he was still breathing
but evidently very far gone with malarial fever!
But the horror of the thing was this : Either his
mates, when they left him—for in the days of the
first rush to the Palmer, if a man fell sick he had
to take his chance —or some traveller had, with
mistaken kindness, put some rations under the
sick man’s head. The ants had found the sugar
out, and now swarmed in their filthy legions over
the dying man. In his eyes, in his nostrils and
his mouth they crawled in hundreds, and it turned
us sick to look at it.
We did all we could to help the poor wretch-
carried him outside and cleansed him from the
ants. He seemed easier, but remained uncon-
scious until he died just at sundown. His tools
were in the tent, and the pick and shovel which
were to bring him fortune served to dig his grave.
in this life it is often so.
F.


PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOUR.
Take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to purify tire blood,
invigorate the system, excite the liver to action,
and restore healthy tone and vigor to the whole
physical mechanism. Quality, not quantity, con-
stitutes the value of a medicine
Use ISatho's Baking Powder.
Tn the race for the great_ prize of popularity
Woi.FE's Schnapps takes the lead.
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in ad
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Augustus Moore is no lunger editor of
London Hawk. How long the paper will survive
the blow leinains to be seen.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps
And now they say Labouchero is to be
bribed with a baronetcy—one is lo be revived
which has died out in the family.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfes Schnapps. It is
the best iuvigorator out.
London paper : “It is well-known that
guests at a private entertainment at which Mr-
Gladstone is present, always receive a discreet
hint that he is not under any circumstances to be
contradicted.”
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe's Schnapps.
A purgative medicine should possess tonic and
curative, as well as cathartic, properties. This
combination of ingredients may be found in Ayer’s
Pills, They strengthen and stimulate the bowels,
causing natural action.
POLITICAL POINTS
Over 20,000 names have been “purged”
f r oiu the Queensland electoral-rolls. _
a All Socialists are of one nation. — Herr
Tirlknecht at the Marseilles Comp-css.
' Shearer Williams, M.P. (N.S. W.), “washes
l- hands of Protection and Freetrade,” finding
that neither touchesgreat social evils. .
The times are out'of joint—O, cursed cheek,
To think that I was born to set them right!
10 _ G. H. Reid's “ Hamlet .”
T Medway Day, the deposed democratic
‘ 0 { sA. Register, intends to stand for Par-
liament next year, possibly on a Labour nomma-
t 0, rhe time has begun to arrive when the
nmmtance of a title damns a man in Australia,
pibbs’ K.C.M.G.-ship is as a millstone round Ins
neck.
“You don't advance us wages, we advance
~ work.”— Much-applauded sentiment of a
striker in the “Lost Paradise” drama at Mel-
bourne.
“ ‘ Responsible Government' is on its
trial ” No, it isn’t. “Responsible Government ”
is'“in the soup.” It has been convicted of
paralytic imbecility.
Nearly every S.A. district council and
corporation has repeatedly affirmed the principle
of rating on unimproved values; but S.A. Legisla-
tive Council has for years remained adamant.
A North Brisbane elector has just been
disfranchised through “ removal,” because he left
the bedroom on which his qualification was based,
and shifted to one upstairs in the same house.
The Melbourne Trades Hall people should
have given their distinguished patronage to “The
Lost Paradise,” but they didn’t. The working
man is apt to be very dull and soulless in these
matters.
Sir James Lee Steere, of W.A., attributes
the depression in the Eastern provinces of Aus-
tralia to the results of “manhood suffrage.”
Which, by the way, is nowhere in unrestricted
exercise in Eastern Australia.
Parkes is of opinion that the Dibbs Govern-
ment ought to resign because it has only a majority
of four. That is to say, the party which has a
majority of four should retire, so that the party
with a minority of four may come into office.
Ballarat Courier calls Shiels and Cos.
“ enemies of the people and traitors to the State ”
for adopting the cause of the gone-bung bank-
busters. And the provincial press has hitherto
given a good deal of impetus, or pause, to the
present Government of Victoria.
It is now stated that the sum which
Premier Dibbs (N.S. W.) will “accept” (the wise
call it something else) on account of his expenses
en tour to England, will be nearer to =£3ooo than
iIOOO, Why, the dinner he gave at London
Metropole alone must have cost hundreds.
In the Victorian Legislature they talk
with assumed seriousness of “ the r6le which the
Australian colonies would have to play in time of
war.” Meanwhile, the Victorian Government
should study the role it ought to play in times of
peaceful depression and barefaced bank-swindles.
Professor Pearson is to have the comfort-
able position of secretary to the Victorian Agent-
General. The Professor went “ Home ” ostensibly
for the good of his health. It really now seems as
if no Australian Government were capable of con-
ducting the most trifling concern without shuffling.
That little rumpus about the “discourtesy”
to the N.S.W. police, passing through Adelaide
on their way to Broken Hill, has made Chief
Secretary Cockburn absolutely the most popular
man in South Australia, so far as the workers are
concerned, says The Bulletin’s Adelaide corres-
pondent.
G. R. Sims thinks it was out of order for
Keir-Hardie to drive up to the House of Commons
attended by a brass band, but “can’t see where
the objection to the new member’s tweed cap and
flannels comes in.” It comes in at about the same
place as the old Tory belief in frock-coats and tall
silk hats.
London County Council, perhaps the
largest general employer in England next to the
British Government departments, talks of abolish-
ing contractors, and having all its works carried
out by trades-unionist workmen. Labour convul-
sions thus do start an odd geyser or two in
unexpected places.
Richardson, M.L.A. of Victoria, an ex-
newspaper man, says that the writer of everything
in a newspaper should be compelled to sign it.
Certainly ; and every member of Parliament
should have to announce to the House every time
lie goes up the b ickstairs to make “ proper repre-
sentations ” to Ministers.
Sir Charles Gavan Duffy says that when
ne first arrived in Australia “ there was but one
man of Irish race and Catholic religion in
the whole Civil Service.” This is an incredible
assertion, even if it be supposed that Duffy
emitted to analyze the nationality and creeds of
the police and the gaol - officials; but, if it
was true, Duffy and O’Shanassy soon altered
1 hat!
Archbishop Walsh, of Dublin, asked Glad-
itono not to appoint again, to the frish Lienten-
itney, our recent visitor, the Earl of Aberde n,
but to send Baron Carington, who, ho said, would
be received with acclaim by the people. It is
averred that Cardinal Moran gave Ids “downy ”
friend Carington, a “ good character” to his other
friend, Walsh. However, Gladstone sent neither
bf them.
An Armidale (N.S.W.) paper run by ex-
Freetrade Secretary Pulsford seriously ascribes
13. J. Finks halfpenny-in-the-<£ burst-up for a
million to—the Protectionist policy of Victoria !
Which clearly shows that the discontinuance of
Pulsford’s official salary was the original cause of
the cholera epidemic in Europe.
Memo, for knighted “ Republicans ” :
It is easier, they say, to climb a lull when you ascend
back-foremost. Tliis, perhaps, might admit of application
to political eminences : if you still turned towards them
that part of the body on which you sit, aid kept your
face directed down to I lie people ; all the while, however,
removing and mounting.—Jean Paul.
Shiels was Attorney-General of Victoria at
the time that Justice 1 iigiubotham recommended
(by inference) a second prosecution of Gourlay
and the Murphys. The suggestion was ignored,
on the score of expense. For a barrister by pro-
fession, Shiels is a somewhat backward gentleman
at encouraging Crown prosecutions.
The Bulletin sincerely trusts that any
effort to repeal the N.S.W. Party Processions Act
will fail. It is indecent to see the hypocrites who
invariably attain the chiefship of pol tico-religious
organisations, one day marching witli open Holy
Bible at the head of a procession, and the next day
lugged off to quod for something or other.
Thinly-veiled bitterness pervaded th e
notices of “ The Lost Paradise” in the Ace and
A nous. Speaking of the strike incident, the
latter said : “In spite of the M'Kinley tariff, the
condition of the operatives is described as very
deplorable.” We are impelled to here remark
that Cain slew his brother in spite of Mr. Justice
Windeyer.
At the big meeting at Queen Victoria’s
Statue, Sydney, held to condemn the action of
N.S.W. Government in arresting the Broken HiU
strike-leaders, some of those present seriously con-
templated the possibility of procuring a strong
rope, bitching it to the head of the statue, and
calling on the crowd to lurch. The rope, however,
was not to be bad, and a severe shock to the
London market-value of “colonial ” securities was
averted.
Maori land Payment of
Members Bill will give members
<£2o each per month.
It is a curious coincidence
that the very drunkenest speeches
in S.A. Assembly have been
delivered on the subject of tea-
taxation.
The capitalistic party fondly
look forward to a permanent
breach between Kingston and
the S.A. Labour-party, in the
vain hope that it will lead to
Kingston’s going over to the
other side. Kingston is the one
politician they fear.
The new Tasmanian Minis-
try are finding their “ retrench-
ment scheme” more difficult of
accomplishment than they antici-
pated. To such straits have
they been driven that the
Hobart hospital authorities were
(vainly) asked to arrange for a
one-fil th reduction in the salaries
of the staff, and a considerable
curtailment in the food-supplies
for patients !
Says the Review of Re-
views : “When the working
classes are in genuine trouble
the Argus will raise ten times
as much for their relief as their
own special organ.” We know
the Argus’ definition of genuine
trouble in relation to the work-
ing classes. Only a literary
mole will describe the Age as
the “own special organ” of
the working classes at this time
of day.
Dear Bulletin, Your
article on those bedimmed
knightlets, Davies and Ben-
jamin, reminds me of a prece-
dent of Edward lll.’s reign that
we may yet see imitated. That
famous 'monarch, during one
year of hard-upness, summoned
all the gentlemen of England,
who had .£4O a year and up-
wards, to come and receive the
honour of knighthood —for the
sake of the fat fees, of course—
or pay to he excused. History-
does not say how many became
conspicuous by their absence.—
Yours, J.I’.C.
As the white jurors of the Northern Terri-
tory have evidently made up their minds never to
convict any white man charged with the murder
of any Chinaman, the S.A. Government will, in
future cases, alter the venue of trial from Port
Darwin to Adelaide. Settlers with grudges
against Celestials will thus have serious_ restric-
tions placed upon their shooting propensities.
Boyd D. Morehead (Q.) wants to have
“ one of the highest officials in the colony ” —
which obviously means Chief Justice Lilley—-im-
peached for high treason, on the ground that “ he
has taken the oath of allegiance and has receiver
honour at Her Majesty’s hands” and now preaches
Republicanism. What is the betting now that
Lilley doesn’t gaol the whole Cabinet for contempt
of court the day that impeachment starts?
The Gentlewoman tells a story of a
miserable needlewoman, living in an attic in one
of the London slums, who was so overjoyed when
the Conservatives carried the local election, that
she smashed the last three panes in her only
window to celebrate the event. The story isn’t
by any means impossible. You can meet many
penniless tramps in England who are full of solid
Tory principles, and will wave all their rags in
the damp atmosphere with sheer enthusiasm when
some lord or other gets into Parliament.
Minister Copeland (N.S.W.) on electora 1
reform: “The principle that I strongly object to
is the principle of equal representation.” Minister
Lyne: “ I think three electors in the capital
should only have the same power as two in the
country.” Minister See : “ the basis of repre-
sentation for sparsely-populated areas should not
be the same as that for densely populated elector-
ates.” Premier Dibbs ; “I approve of the prin-
ciple of one member for 20):) electors in the
country, but I am strongly of opinion that one
member for 4000 is quite sufficient for the city and
s ib irbs.” Now, equal representation is the
foundation-stone of democracy, and equality of
representation is based not only on One-Man-
One-Yote but on One- Yote-One-Value.
Brisbane (Q.) Worker, which booms
Lane’s “New Australia” scheme in Argentina,
S. Am., very nastily speaks of the French enthu-
siasts who propose to found a similar co-operative
settlement, to be called “ New France,” in Para-
guay, S.Ara., as “French utopian socialists.”
Sing, hey !
We swallow camels, others strain at gnals ;
Our geese are swans, our neighbour’s swans are geese ;
All other people’s kids arc ugly brats ;
Onr rival’s butter’s always rancid grease.
All doxies, save our own, are heterodox ;
All dogs are curs, except the curs we own ;
And every scheme for man’s salvation shocks,
Except that scheme which we can run alone..
Skeleton of any speech by Sir Henry
Parkes :
A few months hence it will be years since 1 was
elected to the legislature of N.S.W. Since then I have
been elected to that legislature considerably over
times. I have passed through more than contested
elections, I have been at the head of administrations,
and I have sat in every parliament, and voted, with
exceptions, on every great question Tor a period extend-
ing now over years altogether I have enjoyi and the con-
fidence of Her Majesty’s representatives and of her people
of N.S.W. as practical ruler of this great colony. lam
not stating these facts for the purpose of enabling anyone
to write my biography—l may mention in parenthesis
that my autobiography will be published shortly—but for
another purpose.
Then follows any purpose.
The present political system, says Sydney
Daily Telegraph, “ only provides for two parties,
and cannot be worked with more.” Which cir-
cumstance conclusively proves the imbecility of
Party Government. There are at least 20 parlies
in the N.S W. Assembly, when we reckon the
straight Protectionists and the straight Free-
traders, the teetotal party, the Single-tax party,
the Federation Protectionists, the Federation
Freetraders, the Labour Protectionists, the Labour
Freetraders, the Social Parity crowd, Mr. Willis,
the squatting party, the rampant Orange party,
and all the other sub-sections; and the policy
w hich can only be worked by assuming, in the face
of these facts, that there are two parties and no
more, is just as deranged as the policy which is
based on the assumption that a horse is invariably
foaled with only one leg.
ONLY A SAMPLE.
GORGEOUS DUDE : “Bai Jove! There's a pretty ankle.”
SHE : “Yes, I’ve got another one just like it.”
Dear Bulletin, —The Pastoralists’ Asso-
ciation in Central Queensland means to get on top
at the general elections next year. Here is one of
its dodges : It is necessary for a man to be domi-
ciled in one distiiet for at least six months ere he
can claim a vote. Now, when any employe of a
pastoralist is suspected of harbouring secret
Labour sympathies, his squatter-boss waits until
he has fulfilled (say) four months of his agreement,
and then informs the man that he is very sorry,
but, owing to the low price of wool and the impos-
sibility of getting rid of surplus stock, he must
pay the man off. To give an air of verisimilitude
to the excuse, the squatter presents the man with
an A 1 testimonial, and away goes the befooled
half sorry and half pleased. Next day the first
passing unemployed is put into the vacancy. The
man with the testimonial may try one after
another, all the squatters in the same electorate,
but if he shows the testimonial, which is carefully
explicit as to how long he has been in the district,
he will fail to get a billet. Directly he moves into
another electorate he is snapped up at once. Then,
if his name be on any roll, objection is taken to it,
and he is “ purged ” of his franchise. —Yours,
BLUEGRASS.
A Picture from Memory.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Bright Beauty’s eye is when it seeks
To pierce us with its dart,
But brighter is the eye that speaki
The good and kindly heart.
I know of one who is not fair
In any sight but mine,
Yet hath her face a beauty rare—*
To me almost divine.
For though her eyes have not the bright
Light poets call past price, ■
There shines in them a purer light—
The light of sacrifice.
For weary years a weary load
Of others’ cares she bore,
Her only murmur on the road
Some quiet tears ; no more.
She walks unto her destined goal
Softly and all alone,
The sweetest and the noblest soul
That I have ever known.
VI[?]TOR J. DALEY.
Sir John Downer has gob a majority
against the. Holder Government (S.A.), but it was
not big enough to warrant him in moving last week.
Speaker Norton (ruling down Powers,
M.P., who had moved to shelve the Griffith
Constitution Bill): “The lion, member is en-
titled to discuss the general principles of the
Bill, but not the details.” Powers tries to pro-
ceed. Speaker: “ The principles are the details,
which cannot bo discussed.' ! ! !
Governor Norman’s message to the
Bananaland Assembly signifying his approval of
the new ‘‘gag” standing orders and rules of
debate, was received on the very afternoon that
Premier Griffith moved his new two-provinces
Constitution Bill into Committee of that House.
Coincidences are generally kind to Griffith, when
he is business manager.
At Nijni-Novgorod, citizen Kitseff having
declared that there was no cholera, and that the
scare had been got up by the doctors, who were
poisoning people, Governor Baranoff issued a pro-
clamation ; “The citizen Kitseff, having asserted
that there is no cholera, and circulated various
false stories concerning the treatment of patients,
is hereby appointed as hospital assistant for three
months on the floating cholera barge hospital, in
order that he may have an opportunity of rectify-
ing his opinions. — Signed, Baranoff.” The
Governor furthermore intimated that any future
offender would be hanged on the spot.
A petition has been presented to the
Maoriland Parliament from sundry residents of
Brunnerton, asking that eight bad boys, win now
attend the Brunnerton Catholic school, shall be
furnished with free railway passes so that they
may attend the Grey mouth school instead. The
document sets forth that the boys in question are
big, uncouth, and rowdy ; that the teacher at
Brunnerton is a delicate female who dare not
whack them lest her life should be endangered
and that the Greymouth teacher is a brawny,
piratical-looking individual who can flog the
largest boy in the country if lie only gets at him.
Therefore the petitioners request that the State
shall supply the necessary facilities for having the
aforesaid eight youths duly flagellated at Grey-
mouth.
A Popular Delusion Exploded.
CONFIRMATORY EVIDENCE.
The disease of mysterious origin, denominated
Diabetes, is of more frequent occurrence than is
generally imagined. That it is highly dangerous,
and often fatal, is conceded ; but no grounds are
given thereby for the commonly entertained idea
that it is incurable. That it does not yield to the
most advanced treatment known to medical
science is no warrant for the too hastily adopted
dictum that all hope must be abandoned, and the
unfortunate patient given over to die. Although
much valuable time may have* been lost over use-
less experimenting, and the strength of the victim
thereby reduced to something frightfully near to
collapse, even under such adverse circumstances
there is a remedy, which, when faithfully applied
in conjunction with certain dietary measures, has
proved, in numberless cases, to be A true specific
for this dire complaint. That remedy is Warner’s
“Safe” Diabetes Cure.
One of the latest examples of its power in an
extreme case is given in the words of Mr, Chris-
topher G. Harvey, dated Hawea, Cromwell, New
Zealand, 27th June, 1892. He writesMessrs.
H. H. Warner and Co., Dear Gentlemen,—The
pa it three or four years my health has failed
greatly, and my strength become much reduced.
Early last spring I noticed that the fl.sh had
wasted off mv bones. I had become a perfect
skeleton, and'could hardly walk from sheer ex-
haustion. One doctor treated me for indigestion,
and another said I had sugar diabetes, an 1 could
not live long. Daily I was seized with fainting
fits, and the doctor stated that I should likely go
off in one of them. At times I felt most painfully
hungry, but my jaws were so weak that I could
not eat. In fact, I was given up to die .within a
month. When I came back from seeing the
doctor, a friend, Mr. Barclay, ca'led to enquire
after me and begged me to try Warners “ bafe
Diabetes Cure—but I objected, as I had spent all
my ready money. He then asked me if I would
take the medicine, and give it a fair trial if it was
procured for me. On giving my consent, he and
others bought a case. After taking four bottles,
I felt great improvement. My aj»peti teand palate
became more natural, the urine decreased, the
s veilings in ankles and thighs and pain in shin
bones vanished. I have now taken Jfi bottles, and
through the use of your preparation my life has
been prolonged to this, to the surprise of every-
body. They say I am a living miracle, as it was
the general opinion that I could not last over
Christmas ; but I am now ploughing with a team
of horses, and at the present moment I am in
excellent health.
Such evidence as the foregoing, volunteered by
the individual who underwmt the experience,
sufficiently stamps the medicine that produced
su h a wonderful result as one of the most valu-
able discoveries of this ago. No sufferer from
diabetes need desp.yr while Warner’s “Safe”
Diabetes Cure is available.


WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH THE BRITISH
LION 1
THE PROGRESS OE
MEDICINE.
A little allegory suggested by the
medical .Congress lately sitting at
• '• ' Sydney.
<*'v* >'
v*>*'
*>
*' The Reporter Suggests that ■ full provision
should he made for the education, examination and
licensing of women ns chemists and druggists,’ and,
if we are to have women doctors, there is no reason
why we should not have women chemists.”
Too long, alas ! has man been chemically ex>
periraented upon by woman !
' “I jjtdojj. Sept. 27.—Mr. Streeter,
the Veil-known jeweller, says that
Australia is pregnant with every de-
scription of precious stones. He pre-
dicts that Australia will become in
the near future an Eldorado of com-
mercial enterprise.” —Daihj paper.
Onr artist has a rockery
in. his backyard made of
precious stone-• — precious
heavy one:.
Mr. Russell, Govern-
ment Astronomer, has
been photographing
the moon for the
Chicago Exhibition.
If his photos, are
equal to his weather-
forecasts, they will
create a good deal of
amusement in “ She-
cawgo.”
ftO ■
FIDDLING WHILE ROME IS
BURNING.
<J/' Ca */t „
a ??o l{
J 'J6
fast rac'./ 3
Jawbone Neild’s patent Heir-
restorer. Take a week off, and
think this out.
/ /Ca\ Cor^re-J?
, a tcs-
/oUlKoj Tj
/
(7 j*e »y ij -ow-r
hfyl-S are U)oryed iy TiVye Jfjty
Hiaij 6e To (“jeep
v Closed tf)ore tljap cU. j
■IMPROMPTU ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION.
Oh, Lord, on what a slender thread
Our feeble bodies hang !
IN AND OUT OF SYDNEY.


. t~o|- thelßrif rs.h>
I ion ( \ on
Vecl tMa t~he IT)elb j-inonc iol ne£
0^ e ,^v+ c *'/ »*
/ beetr)n *n <a bo
0. -£>
r°ise ore
S' CT»*o ce.r») Your* accov/nY~/k •—//?<?/- —~
\ y (^ ?
/Ctssf '/re &ei/Y^sfiis*/o&-Y~e, ee/ffiQp c/"c/*c/s/p/*s
' " o /f?foesriny/r)''■/■fye^/ooon c/''
(S‘ /a< , Cr /- To <*<2 sfon
ts><? c onf , erf erf o & of rf-he. e *
f''*/&<2crr) c/ / en rf. j y<2-“o fas m(/s7^~f>e~/~
'£> rf> oo / erfes? •*, -w>//~/?e. /vAee/'*
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
Pthe coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £SS
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note —These allotments are in selected positions,
they have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
309 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Omen:
ST. GEORGES TERRACE. PERTH. W.A.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Oolemane and Son’s"
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Pfalilort's Hotel, Wynyard Square,. Sydney
J. Liohtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire-
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., lias taken over the above oldl
eslahlished fir.-d-elass hotel. Special rates for comm rcia
tr ivellers and families.
Use IiATHO’s Baking Powder. ,
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, .£3 3s. Beaham and Mutch,
'Tivilors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
The Eucalypte Lozenges lor colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and King
streets. He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas nr cocaine, daily. Only address - Mr. J- *•
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sydney Arcade, George ana
King streets.*
Farad i.-e—smoking a G N U N Darling.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Society
At the annual meeting of a certain Sydney
Women’s litcray society the president was
given a list of the books studied by the society
during the past year. There were a couple of
Kipling’s novels, a book of poems (the author not
vulgarly famous, but related to one of the mem-
bers), one or two other literary productions of a
similar height and heaviness, and a historical
volume—“T!.e Age of Anne.” The president
aid secretary were expected to make some com-
ment on each book mentioned. Of this last
volume they did so—as follovveth. One ; “Fancy
writing a whole book about one woman’s age ! ”
The other ; “Yes. It was .clever. How old was
she really ? ” No one died on the spot.
* # #
The man who lias been on the S.M.
Herald staff and imbibed the feeling of profound
(far be it from us to add unjustifiable) reverence
for “ Mr. James” which soaks into everyone who
is associated with that paper, never quite shakes
tin sentiment off in after life. The creed of the
S.M. Herald man, boiled down, is that the
h avens and the earth were made in six days, and
that on the seventh day was created “ Mr. James”
Fairfax. Some time ago an S.M. Herald man
in a state of burning indignation, one evening met
a friend in an hotel, and proceeded to unburden
his soul. “We really can’t stand it any longer,”
he said, with a kind of humble ferocity. “The
way goes on, you know, is too bad. We held
a meeting this afternoon, and we decided to put
our Foot down and let them know we wouldn’t
stand it.” He looked so wild that his friend
here came to the conclusion that dynamite and
bloodshed were near at hand. “What are you
going to do?” he asked in a hoarse whisper. The
pressman led him away mysteriously to a far
corner, and assumed a murderous expression like
Davids when he had the scrap with Goliath.
“You won't tell anybody ?” be said, huskily. “ I
won’t,” said the ag’ bated listener. “ We’re going
to do something that we never did before, but
strong measures are absolutely necessary. We’re
going”—here his voice became a baleful hiss —
“We’re going to see Mb. James about it !”
# * *
The fatal beauty of the ex-Australian
ready - money bookmaker, Mr. Robert Stan-
dish Sievier Sutton, has fascinated the only
sister of the Marquis of Ailesbury. The
flash, foul-tongned odds-bawler is linked to the
nobility for better or worse, and it can’t be for
much worse than his, first marriage, because the
South Melbourne wife “sacked” Robert on
account of the sins of his life, which were many.
There is no denying that the “cash bookmaker’s”
unexpected entry into the Ailesbury-cwm-Dolly
Tester family is a staggerer. He may ultimately
become the father of a peer of Hingland, for all
we know to the contrary. Certainly he is uncle
to the reigning Ailesbury’s issue, if that warned-
off young blackguard owns any issue. The writer
has, in a moment, become proud to remember that
he used to back stiff ’uns with the possible sire of
a marquis’s grandchild. Would Sutton, in his
nuptially ennobled state, be considered fit to plug
the proboscis of a Governor’s aide-de-camp ?
Answer us that! If the glorified bookmaker were
brought to Melbourne City Court to-morrow,
charged with assaulting the son of an earl in a
pub. would not the bitter cry of a still more
aristocratic wife —“ Spare, spare my husband !” —
modify those earlier views of the Bench?
Another white man has been medically
certified to as a “true leper ” up at Cairns, N.
the haunt of the Chinese-grown banana. Cairns
is so thick with Chinese that they say in N.Q.
you can always tell a Cairns man by his habit
of doffing bis hat respectfully to every Chinaman
he meets.
* * *
An important social paper not read before
the Australian Medical Congress concerns Chinese
fruit-growing. Never buy from an Asiatic any
over-ripe soft fruits. As the world knows, Ah
S'n, when lie goes “ home ” at night, puts his un-
sold fruit under the bed, where, also, he always
allows green fruit to mature. As long as the fruit
is sound the leprosy can be pulled off with the
skins; but when you happen to get hold of
and eat a bruised, soapy banana which has
been brought to perfection beneath John’s virtuous
couch, you are very likely rapidly nearing the
time when you will begin to wonder why your toes
are dropping off so quickly, and why you can’t
feel anything with your fingers, and why your
cars are getting so thick, and why the Little Bay
Jazarette ambulance is outside waiting for you.
Hoo-ki-la ! Chinese fruit—it makes our mouth
water.
# # #
Ladies desirous of divorce are advised
to consider the law relating to domicile in
all its bewildering aspects. Judicial domicile
is not a villa residence, or a shop, or a situa-
tion which includes sleeping on the premises.
It is a vague, uncertain invention of the legal
mind that admits of more than one interpretation
in Court. The Judge usually reserves his decision
on the question of domicile, and when he has
mastered all its details you learn that there never
was a domicile to be decided. Apropos, Mrs.
Jackson, many years of Victoria, lias been peti-
tioning for a divorce from Mr. J., who deserted
her in N.S.W., where he is now stationed. The
parties were originally married in Victoria, but
the Court of that province has delivered a reserved
judgment to the effect that a wife whose husband
is in N.S.W. can’t come to Victoria and acquire a
domicile. She may live in Victoria for as many
consecutive years as she chooses, and build
berself a castle on the spot, yet it will not be her
domicile. And if she were to return to N.S.W.
and bring an action for restitution of her domicile
her husband might skip to Victoria taking the
lost domicile with him.
* * #
A complaint was made to the Melbourne
Church Assembly, last week, against the incum-
THE GENUINE ARTICLE.
SHE: “I’m always proud to meet a genuine old bachelor; one
who has steadily resisted temptation.”
HE: “Ah! my dear madam, you can’t imagine how often I
have fallen.”
bent of a Geelong suburb for discontinuing Sunday
evening services, which, he said, “ Only furnish
an excuse for young people of both sexes who
want to meet under cover of the darkness.” Now,
if an enemy had said this !
* • *
Mrs. Andrew, M.A., now visiting Aus-
tralia in the W.C.T.U. interest, declares that
prohibition does prohibit. In her own little pub-
less suburb of Chicago there is an attendance of
as many as 500 persons at the mid-weekly prayer-
meeting. That can be understood—in the absence
of any other counter-attracting vice.
The N.S.W. Women’s Christian Temper-
ance Union asks Parliament to abolish barmaids.
“ It is a disgrace to humanity that girls should be
behind bars using all the attractions which God
has given them to lure men to drunkenness and
immorality ”
Dr. Kate Bushnell, one of the U.S.A.
delegates to the W.C.T.U. of N.S.W., snaps this
epigrammatic verity in.behalf of the cause: —
“ That which brings women to degradation is too
often drink ; that which binds women to degrada-
ti m is drink ; that which makes shame tolerable 1
to women is drink.” Yes, a notch or two of un-
womanly woe is nicked that way, but here is a
broader shaft of truth That which brings
women to degradation is too-ofteii over- work and
poverty; that which binds women to degradation
is hunger; that which makes shame tolerable to
women is the abolition of both poverty and hunger.
The last affirmation is capable of a large variety
of interpretations, each one of them true.
# * *
Apropos the convincing paper on “The
Plea of Insanity in Criminal Trials,” read at last
week’s Medical Congress by Dr. Springthorpe for
the joint authors thereof, himself and Dr. W. L.
Mullen, The Bulletin is proud of its position as
the only Australian newspaper which has for years
waged constant war upon the medical definition of
insanity. Briefly, the present law is that so long
as a man knows the difference between right and
wrong, he is accountable for his act—that there
can be, so far as such a man is concerned, no such
thing as “ irresistible impulse.” “I knew it was
wrong,” said murderer Colston, “ but I couldn’t
help it.” The crux of the position is contained in
these words.
* * *
A Maoriland lady had an experience the
other day. Released from gaol in the morning,
she contracted a matrimonial engagement with an
old friend whom she met in the course of the fore-
noon, bought some jewellery, and made arrange-
ments for the wedding, then got drunk and was
run in, fought a policeman on the way, spent the
night in the lock-up, was fined next morning, and
was married (“ with a head on her ”) an hour after
the fine was liquidated. Which makes a con-
siderable amount of emotion to crowd into 24
hours. If the old man had only broken his neck
in the afternoon, and the widow had got a fortune
left her and been struck by lightning about dusk,
the story would have been complete.
» * *
“It is no longer fashionable for women to
kiss when they meet.” It is quite time to abolish
a ceremony which deceives nobody.
A small Brisbane (Q.)
boy cue of those proper
little darlings whose hair is'
always nicely pomatumed
down, and whose nose has
been recently wiped, and
whose collar slopes well over
his shoulders presented a
begging subscription-card to
a motherly old dame. “For
whom are yon collecting
money, my little boy?” asked
mother. “For the Presby-
terian heathen, ma’am.” How
touchingly true !
# * #
A correspondent :
Barney Scully, aged ninety
years, died the other day at
Ids home in Sydney. It was
Barney’s boast that he had
driven more people to their
weddings than any other man
living in Australia. The
ancient.—who, by the way, is
said to have arrived in
N.S.W. by the ship which
brought Governor Bourke—
for uncounted years got his
living by letting out carri-
ages, and in the pre-railway
days used to drive newly-
wedded couples to the
Honeymoon Inn at Rich-
mond. The old man was
fairly well-to-do, and devoted
the last years of his life to
acts of charity among the
poor of his neighbourhood.
“Why,” asks “Faus-
tine,” in Sydney D.T., “do
men get bald, and not
women?” “You are a very
simplicity ’oman.” If you
really want a poser, How is
it so few bald men are poor
men ?
• * *
As “The Daughters of
the Court ” (a new fashion-
able Melb. society) are sworn
“ to speak ill of no one,’’con-
versation is likely soon to be
very limited in down South
sewing-circles.
A female deputation, with a baleful eye
and an ominous sniff, lately waited upon the com-
mittee of the Women’s Hospital, Melbourne, and,
after remarking that it was a representative
section of the Victorian Vigilance Association,
proposed, with the cold placidity of an iceberg,
“that when girls under 10 years of age were
succoured in the midwifery department of the
institution the particulars of the story confided by
them in their trouble to the hospital officials
should be handed over to the V.V.A., to enable
its members to institute prosecutions under the
Crimes Act, if they chose.” The committee
refused in a stern, metallic voice, and Virtue, as
represented by the V.V.A., has received another
horrid blow :
The wife of a certain Melbourne gentle-
man is said to find comfort in saying—“ I don’t care
what happens, I shall still be Lady Thingummy.
They can’t take that away from me.” Nobody
would rob the good woman of her treasure. R
suits her so completely, it does.
* # *
The Bible Christian Church in S.A.
increased by fi-f per cent, during the last ten
years, and the Advertiser put the advance down
to the influence and energy of the Chief Justice
who spends his money liberally in the interests of
this denomination. The parsons and people pro-
fess much indignation at the innuendo, and claim
that their conventicle was boomed by Heaven
and not merely by Sammy Way.
■Jf-
At the West Australian Anglican. Synod
the other day, Archdeacon Watkins, in combating
the Dean of Perth’s assumption that all raffles
and lotteries were pernicious, quoted the late
Archbishop Magee : “ Eating is not a sin, hut
excessive eating is the sin of gluttony ; drinking
is not a sin, hut excessive drinking is the sin c!f
drunkenness ; rest after labour is not a sin, but
excessive resting is the sin of sloth ; betting is not
a sin, but excessive betting is the sin of gambling,’ 1
The Synod sided with the Archdeacon by a bare
majority.
# * «
A pious burglar named Bergmann war;
recently arrested in New Voile. NV hen aditcc-
tive visited Mrs. Bergmann with a search-warrant
that lady sadly remarked, “I told him he was
flying in the face of Providence in going to busi-
ness on a Sunday.”
# * #
Two headings of adjoining columns of a
recent Age : “The Broken Hill Strike. Tried
for Conspiracy.” “Action for Altered LiUl.
Groom v. The Age.” The Bulletin’s italics.
* «. »
Melbourne City Coroner Youl rebuked a
witness—father of deceased—at a recent inquest
for having given his offspring five Gin istimi
names. No man, he hinted, could expect to rear
a child so weighted dow n. True. Parents should
leave their sons room in front for a knighthood,
and at the rear for a C.M.G.-ship. In this en-
lightened land any smart lad may grow up to be a
Republican politician.
* * *
From Melbourne Age :
TJERSON, young, would like situation as house-
’ keeper to bachelor, fond of children. “ Maud,”
Age office.
# # #
Speaking at Dnbbo, N.S.W., to the school-
girls, Parkes “ besought them not to wear
jewellery.” This is going back on his native
Brummagem with a vengeance.
* * *
Dr. Balls-Headley aired some cheapjack
philosophy at Sydney Medical Congress :
Civilisation produces three types of women—excess of
mind over animalism ; equalisation of mind and animalism;
and the excess of animalism over mind.
The same might be said of anything in connection
with almost everything. It is only a puffy way of
stating that types vary between two extremes,
and that extremes always have a mean. Every-
thing lineal, except a circle, has two ends and a
middle —even Dr. Balls-Headley. Fin de siecle
science produces three types of doctors—excess of
knowledge over quackery; equalisation of know-
ledge and quackery; and excess of quackery
over knowledge. Ain’t we learned, just ?
# * #
Arthur Wiseman, of the well-known
“ woollen ” firm, was one of the best among a
few good Melbourne “bosses.” Shortly before
his death, he refused to join in a Flinders-lane
scheme for reducing salaries all-round. When
profits were big he believed in a bonus for the
employes, but he wasn’t disposed, he said, to take
back a bonus from the working expenses after a
bad season. And his spirit had the satisfaction
of knowing that many people were sincerely sorry
to see Arthur Wiseman buried.
» * «
Potts and Shirk, the men who run the
rival Sydney Sunday papers, have come to even
more violent loggerheads than usual. Potts was
sued recently for wife-maintenance, and Shirk
commented on the fact. Thereupon, Potts rose
on his generous ear and stated in his paper that
his “ private griefs or domestic troubles were
sacred, ’ which, considering how his paper inter-
fered in the private griefs of Black and M’Millan
and others, is tolerably brassy. Also, Potts
quotes the following hunk from Shirk to show
that Shirk is a dirty person, and that his mind
needs to be washed :
In Blank-street, at the foot of Smith-street, are half-a-
dozen houses devoted to prostitution and bilking. It is a
strange satire that some of the most iniquitous dens in
Sydney are almost under the shadow of a hall, where so
many schemes for the regeneration and advancement of
humanity are hatched. The locality is convenient for the
pursuits indicated Once the fool is ensnared
he is quickly led to one of these dens. After an interval
long or short, according to circumstances—the reputed
husband appears, “ neddy ” or life-preserver in hand, and
it is ludicrous, if deplorable, to behold the dupe
rushing—with minus hoots and socks, and some!inns
pants to secure shelter in a neighbouring wood-yard. As
he shivers, the “husband and wife” divide the spoil and
laugh over the folly of the “ mug.” We learn from good
authority— verified by our own observation—that such
scenes occur almost nightly.
Also Potts wants to know what sort of a person
Slurk of the other paper must be when he is down
in that street almost nightly watching nude men
flying for refuge in a wood-yard. Some further
observations on both sides are expected next Sun-
day, and Sydney will arise early on that
sacred morn to watch the Slurk-Potts fight.
“The Lord blessed the Sabbath day and
hallowed it ” so that Potts and Shirk might reach
for each other’s hair on that occasion.
# * *
The wife of the ex- Mayor of a Southern
city, who is aDo a M.P., also a banker,
ran away—alone—from her husband, the other
day. She said that the little statesman, who
wants to bo Treasurer of the. province, would
get up in the middle of the night and rehearse his
speeches before a cheval glass. He has promised
to give his future orations voice in the local park,
so she has returned.
Great news of Bob Sutton has come from abroad,
No more is he vulgar or shady ;
We thought him “ presuming ” in plugging a lord,
But now he is hugging a lady.
And, Deerhurst, who scorned to continue the strife
With one of inferior station.
May hit. the man back now he’s taken to wife—
To be his support in the drama of life—
A marquis’s nearest relation. -
A point has struck deep in our awe-stricken mind,
A point fit for sage to descant on,
Boh Sutton was ordered to quod (and not fined)
By lord-loving Magistrate Panton.
And O ! on the soul of the hounciful beak
Remorse must be raising a blister
That bookie of whom he could spitefully speak,
On whom the law’s vengeance he purposed to wreak,
Is the mash of a peer’s little sister.
Alas for poor Panton ! he e’er will deplore
The ghastly mistake he committed.
And Beerthirst, who knew not the future in store
For Sutton, is one to be pitied.
The scandal that happened so long, long ago
Now hringeth them grief and repentance;
They thought the “demined fellow ” uncommonly low,
Or else would the one not have passed such a blow,
Nor the other have passed such a sentence.
Before they leave us, let us toast
The theme of many a man’s desire ;
We don’t know where to dread them most—
Behind the bar, or in the choir.
And must they leave the genial tap,
Rob liquor of its light and fire?
We care not, ’cos we know a chap
Can always find them in the choir.
With progress we are bound to go,
The van of all reform we are ;
So, in the choir, we’ll hiccough low.
When all the girls have left the bar !
There’s a popular objection
To the female hard and knobby.
With a penchant for detection
And a social purist bobby,
Who is fired with zeal unstinted
In her self-imposed vocation—
The pursuit of things unprinted,
Pacts unfit for publication.
She’s the red-nosed incarnation
Of sobriety and virtue,
And she loves a revelation,
And is dying to convert you
Prom the bondage of the mocker
To the golden brown of glory
If you’ll guarantee to shock her
With a really awful story.
She’s a creature who accurst, is—
A parading inquisition—
A desire to “ know the worst ” is
Her predominant ambition.
So, to these desires a martyr,
She-Ho fool the badgered nation—
Sets to work at once to start a
Purity Association.


EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“ SPECTACLES s their Use, when Required,
and how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
"’ish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
462, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Sportsmen all smoke G N U N
Darlings.
At Parramatta you can buy G- N IT N Darlings
At North Shore you can buy 6NUN Darlings.
PEMELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
When are Spectacles Itequlrcrt ?
When the eyes water or become so much fatigued by
short exercise as to he obliged to be frequently closed or
relieved by viewing different objects.
When objects cannot be seen without removing them
to an increased distance.
When the letters of a book appear to blend with one
another.
When more light is necessary than was formerly, as
When the candle is placed between the eye and the
hook ;
When much difficulty is found in threading a needle ;
When the eyes appear as if they had a mist before
them;
When black specks seem floating in the sight.
When any of the above indications arise, all affectation
should be laid aside, responsible and skilful opticians con
suited, and a pair of preservers purchased.
SHIPHAI^x
(Practical Spectacle Makers),
462, 474 and 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Are the People.
The artist members of the prosperous Cau-
, , bury (M.L.) Society of Arts have struck the
~!.ustouied snag. The society built a hall specially
f •holding exhibitions in, and this hall is a source
f income which, the artists say, should bh spent
• buying their own pictures. Other members
/' onVrof°ss : omd) desire the money invested in
11 od foreign works so that a gallery for students
f„ v be formed. To which the artists reply that
•f their pictures are not the only ones bought they
l id r efase to exhibit. And so the rift widens.
W 9 # *
A N.B.W. bank-manager, who, a few
irs af r 0) was a race-horse owner, is now, though
’, h , nu oh over forty years of age, an inmate of the
Tiverpool (N.S.W.)'Destitute Asylum. Better
Mere perhaps than keeping company with so
many other bank-managers in Darliughurst.
# * *
The Christian Endeavour Society is the
genteel Salvation Army, washed, shaven, and put
into clean linen. Every night now the Melbourne
suburban trains are vocal with the singing crickets
of the Endeavour!tes—the hallelujah lasses of the
first-class.
# * *
One of tho drollest cases on record was at
the St. Kilda (Melb.) Court when an English swell
brought up the woman cook of the hotel for
splashing him with a mop because he went into
the kitchen to inspect his particular cutlet. Dis-
missed. # * #
The coffee-palaces—Grand, Federal, Vic-
toria, &o.— in Melbourne agitate for the transfer
of liquor-licenses from neighbouring pubs., and
the teetotal shareholders have flung up the sponge
altogether.
* * *
The leading Melbourne caterer got a job
from lady evangelicals, who were afterwards hor-
rified to find he sold alcohol, and besought him to
desist. Replied he: “I only took your tea-
meeting out of kindness—nothing pays me where
there is no grog.”
* • *
Extract from a genuine letter from a
Sydney bank-clerk to a lady friend ;
Dear Miss Ophelia,—Though accepting your kind hos-
pitality on the night of the great storm I am in great
trouble. You know that I wore my new tweed suit.
Well my clothes fell on to the floor and got thoroughly
soaked, ‘but that was not all. The colours washed out of
your carpet and absolutely spoiled my new suit. You
know that 1 had to send an excuse to the bank, which
meant a guinea for a medical certificate, besides the cab-
hire. I have been put to great expense, and I feel sure
that the least you will do for me will he to permit me to
use your name at any tailoring establishment where you
are known, &c., &c.
• » *
A correspondent : The R.O. Bishops of
Australia have agreed to administer the teetotal
pledge to all children whom they confirm—the
pledge to remain in operation until they are 21
years of age.
* # *
“ Old Clem ” —John Clements —one of
Cobb and Co.’s early-day drivers, died recently
at Mudgee (N.S.W.). Unlike “Jim” Ruther-
ford, Walter Hall, “Jack” Fagan, Jacob Russart,
Frank Whitney, and half a score other old
drivers—among whom are numbered millionaires
—“Clem.” was miserably poor, his funeral ex-
penses being defrayed by another old whip—John
Barry, of Mudgee. Eheu ! Vanished now is the
romance of the old coaching-times, when stage-
journeys lasted for days together, and a driver ami
his favoured passenger would sometimes be on
“the box” for 60 hours without a spell. “Of
course they would go to sleep on the box.” said a
retired jehu when in the vein the other day, “ and
it was curious, to notice that whenever the box-seat
passenger was a woman, which was a very fre-
quent occurrence, she always in her sleep nestled
her head trustfully upon my shoulder. Ah !my
boy, those were the thrilling days !” And as the
listener looked at the enthusiastic veteran he
forgot for the moment that the ex-driver was a
hardened old Benedict, who had coached four
wives through to the dead finish.
* # *
The Albury (N.S.W.) Banner is res-
ponsible for the statement that the operation of
ovariotomony has been performed “for the first
time in Albury ” —on a Mister Somebody, a local
resident. For the last time in Albury also, we
presume.
* * *
A wealthy Brisbane publican has be-
queathed the residue of his estate, amounting to
.£lO,OOO, to St. Paul’s kirk, Brisbane, under the
pastorate of the popular Rev. “ Jock ” M‘Swaine,
# • *
A N.Q. police-magistrate is understood to
be on the free-ljst with the local Chinese store-
keepers. This is another Asiatic vogue imported
here with the joss-bribing Chinee. In China, you
can only get justice by paying for it, and the man
who pays the most gets the most justice.
* # #
Among N.S.W. Astronomer Russell’s
manifold troubles, about the worst just now are
the people who call in the middle of the day and
demand to see Mars through the big telescope
immediately. One day last week an enormously
fat and somewhat incoherent lady called on this
errand at noon, and when the planet wasn’t pro-
duced she proceeded to express her conviction that
the department was a frost. The same afternoon
an intoxicated policeman burst head-first into the
office on similar business, and being repulsed he
proceeded to sit down on the doorstep and express
his feelings about the staff in general, after which
he did a species of barn-dance on the grass, hung
his helmet on his left ear, and departed in anger.
* * *
Anyone in search of something really
funny, should go and see the Redfern (Sydney)
railway station-master drilling daily at 11 a.m.,
on No. 8 platform, about twenty aged railway
porters of assorted sizes in his version of the goose-
step. Is this ceremony a “ ’Ome ” institution ?
A clergyman,- about whom there was a
more or less complimentary reference in a New
York letter to the Australasian last October, is
now ia Christchurch (M.L.), and has gathered
round him an enthusiastic congregation. They
have recently erected their meeting-hall—already
quite free of debt—to seat 1000. It is, internally,
the most tastefully-decorated building in Christ-
church, and has a 12-roomed dwelling-house
attached. It is named “The Temple of Truth.”
The doctrines taught are on the very advanced
thought planes, with some of the Christian
scientists’ views included. The necessity for
absolute truth in all relations of life, and for
purity of life, are cardinal points. Judging by
results, the teaching is good; the “students,” as
they are called, are said to do more real charitable
work in the city than any other three congrega-
tions.
* * #
That inconvenient person, Henry Hoyle,
M.P., has scored again against the N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioners. The draw-gear of a Baldwin
engine on the Northern line broke the other day,
and the train and passengers went off at the rate of
90 miles an hour for 15 miles. Hoyle held before
the Baldwin Engine Commission that side-chains
were necessary, but was over-ruled. Premier
Dibbs promises inquiry.
* #• *
At Windsor (Melb.) a little church, of the
Primitive - Methodist - Congregational - Wesleyan
denomination, came a cropper during the boom,
shut up shop, and sold out to the Metropolitan
Eire Brigade Board, who have converted it into a
station. There is no escape for the fire-fiend,
anyway.
Yet another “busted’’ Melbourne Church
has been converted into a factory—a tin-pot
factory. However, it always was a tin-pot affair.
* # #
The democratic “women” of Melbourne
have knocked out the aristocratic “ ladies ” in one
round. At present the Woman’s (Warrawee) Club
STRIKING “TUCKER.”
INDIGNANT STOREKEEPER : “You said you had struck it in the shaft, and I gave you credit
for a lot more tucker.”
[?] (Who is sinking for reef ): “It is kind of you, and I spoke the truth."
[?] STOREKEEPER : “Well, hang it, where is it? Where’s all the bucketfulls you
had got to the surface? I don't see any quartz.”
BILL: “Quartz be [?] wed —we struck the water."
numbers 250, and has the late rooms of the
defunct Printers’ Club, at Queen’s Walk. The
“ ladies ” want to join it, but will not be received
save on the “ women’s ” own terms.
* * *
Parentage of child recently registered in
Melbourne: “Mother, Flossie Fluff, barmaid;
father, Club.”
* * *
Melbourne is discussing the many en-
croachments on its parks and gardens —abscesses
on the public lungs.
A newspaper tells us that the late Lord
Limerick was transported to Norfolk Island,
where the present Lord was born. Mysterious.
It floors a nice-looking romance when we
hear that Helene Vacaresco, the girl who fascinated
the Roumanian crown prince, and thereby raised
such a racket in royal circles, is a fat woman
aered 35.
Various little, rounded bits of chalk were
found by young Mrs. Cuer in her husband’s pocket,
in the morning, after he had been late at the
office, and he explained they were used in balancing
the books.
Afghans are now entering into competition
with white sandalwood-cutters on the Lower
Murchison (W. A.). What a piebald province the
Tory Forrest crew is developing ! Cheap alien
labour is its trump-card.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, A 3 3s. Bbaham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
A paragraph now going round the Aus-
tralian press starts : “The oldest building in the
world is believed to be the Tower of London.”
Where do the Pyramids come in, and a few trifles
like that ?
The Russian Embassy was in darkness at
the illuminations, in Paris, for the French Re-
publican Centenary. What alliance is possible
between despotic Russia and free France ? even
if we leave out of count that France is ruled by
the Jews?
Ravachol, the lately.- executed anarchist,
belonged to a doomed family. His great-great
grandfather, great-grandfather, and grandfather
were all executed," and his father, though he
dodged the hangman, spent most of his latter
years in gaol. Execution was hereditary in that
family.
Gladstone is practically indestructible.
•He is 83 years of age, and within the last two
years he has been overturned amid the wreckage
of a cab, hit in the eye with a hard biscuit, and
run over by a cow, and yet he has just entered on
his fourth spell as Premier, and an eminent
physician can’t see any reason why he shouldn’t
ast another century.
A well-known Sydney pugilist, not long
back from America, was before the court again
last week, when a list of his convictions was read
out—which included a flogging for assaulting a
Chinaman. An eye-witness of the flogging afore-
said told the writer that a man who received a
flagellation just before the pug. stripped, yelled
and begged for mercy at every stroke, and at the
conclusion he was picked up and given a glass of
brandy. When the pug. was called out he pulled
a loose bit of leather off the heel of his boot,
and putting it between his teeth, took his 25
without a murmur, although the flogger laid it on
“all he knew.” When taken down he threw on
his shirt as if nothing had happened, and —he has
been convicted 1G times “ Once a man is
flogged ho never comes up again.”
Somebody has forged Samoan postage-
stamps ostensibly representing <£5O,OOC, and sent
them to London for sale to stamp-collectors.
A new curate, with some High Church
ideas, who had just been imported to St. David’s
Cathedral, Hobart, liked his beer ; so, soon after
his arrival, he went to a well-known Hobart
wine merchant and had a few dozen bottles
of English sent up to his house. He asked the
merchant to book it to him, saying that he was
rather hard-up at present, but as he had an appoint-
ment in St. David’s, he would soon be able to
pay. Next Sunday saw the O' rate officiating at
morning service, and, coming to a certain part
thereof, he turned to the Ease. The merchant (a
very Low Church member of the congregation)
saw the action, and as anything High Church
annoyed him much, he, next morning, abruptly
posted the curate his account for the beer. Down
went the curate to him, and asked why the account
had been sent in, saying tlwt he thought he was
to have a little credit. “ No, sir,” thundered the
man of liquor, “I never give credit to people who
insult me.” “ Insult you !” cried the poor curate
—‘ I never thought of such a thing.” “ Yes, you
did ; you turned your back on me in church
yesterday. Pay your account, and take yourself
and your High Church notions out of my office.”
The curate went to the Dean, told him the story,
and borrowed the money to pay the bill, the Dean
advising him not to turn to the East again, adding
that as he never did so himself, he did not see
why his curate should.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eecalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra,“N.S. VV
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice ivill he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“ Byron Bay There’s a kind of philosophy
which sounds exactly like the droning; of the bumble bee
on a hot afternoon, and you’ve got it had .. “J. M‘o.”
(Toowoomba): Your idea is not original, and the chances
are that a dozen other inventors dialled up the same old
machine and sent it in “Talgoro” (Sydney): You
don’t say so ! “R.P.T.” (Penrith): What is “a rushing
pang of thinking,” for instance? Does it mean that you
have cramp in the think-tank?.... “An Unemployed”:
“Stray thoughts” are disjointed, wobblesorae, without
vigour, and mostly borrowed ..“ Scandalous Jack”:
Such statements as “ the sun’s overhead in this tropical
clime ” are massive fact, no doubt, but barren of interest.
“Gilhooley O’Grunt”: As you observe, “perhaps
Tim Bulletin is a liar.” Perhaps it is. We like the
vigour of your style, anyhow “ A.Y.0.” (Melbourne):
Declined, partly on account of its dullness, and partly
because of the Dora Dora blacks .. “H. T. Winter-
botham ” ; Too long and too thin, like a famished snake.
... “George Harding"; “And this is the end of our
civilisation.” Why, it isn’t even the beginning. Call
round again in 3,000,000 years and you may find civilisa-
tion started “Jas. floss”: No, to both questions....
“ Peter MMackson ” : There never was a good story yet
which some interfering person didn’t contradict by the
first post ..“A Strayaway”: The man who “ uproots the
tree of social evil with the lever of reform ” is as
mixed as the one who starts after the sheep
of monopoly with the dog of co-operation ....
“J.P.8.” (Sydney): Dibbs’ title, regarded as a subject
for poetry, has lost its original freshness “M.N.”:
Good item, but wants condensation “Cornstalk”
(Wyrallah): Please put a pin in the manuscript at the
point where the joke comes in.... “ Richard D.” (Camber-
well): Not amusing, and Tub Bulletin isn’t our “ valuable
paper.” It is only a God-forsaken rag with a red cover...
“Bluegrass”: Poems about “Home and those we hold
most dear ” are sickening. When the man who writes
that sort of verse goes home the house-cat will generally
go straight up the chimney rather than meet him, and
the dog makes a bee-line for the hills... “E. P. Roberts ”:
Thanks for letter... “J. Osborne ” : You don’t know how
to apologise. The perfect apology is the sort which seems
to retract, but doesn’t, and is six times more offensive
than the original insult. We know an editor who is
reputed to have made four fat men die of rage and
apoplexy by apologising to them “A.D.” (Charters
Tow'ers): The pamphleteer who classes protection and
state-aided immigration together isn’t worth refuting..
“ Willyama” (Broken Hill): The moral, we suppose, is
that the police eat pies in large quantities, and then, if
the pie-fiend demands cash, run him in for creating a dis-
turbance “J.W.S.” (Port Melb.): Poem unduly de-
pressing... “M.W.H.” (East Melb.): There is no “ pre-
ponderance ”at all. By your own figures things are as
accurate as any mere average can be. Each 6000 should
contain one-fifth of the prizes. The 5000 over 20,000 only
contains about one-fifth... “ The Owl”; Serenade to your
faithless girl would only aggravate both the girl and the
public. Besides, you are doubtless serenading another
girl by this time “ A.M.” : Yes, the cholera microbe
has been discovered. Your question, “ Why is there no
effective remedy'?” is as sensible as “Why can’t we
make gold?”.', “Geo. A.” (Gympie): To do it
in one case would mean doing it in thousand
“ Stever” : What missing-link is this—
And the stranger said he'd come frdfL mere with this
story awful true,
That they’d been and stuck the station up and was making
things black and blue.
“ Manus Forti ” (Nyngan); To what purpose ? Such
a move is no use unless conducted in dead silence
“ Michael Williams ” (Waverley): We have already given
you the census-returns : no other figures are available...
“ Outsider ” ; Judging by the red-ink designs on the edge
of your “ pome,” Nature intended you for a gilder and
paper-hanger “ Silver King ” : Thanks. Will use.. .
ErK.”: If you know the meaning of your own screed,
we will cheerfully eat your hat “ Rak-a-rok ”: When
the democracy' gets uppermost, the man who writes poems
starting “ Toilers, Awake 1” will be hanged on a gallows
50 cubits high, and Ids poem will be burnt by the Board
of Health....“ Baccupidus ” : Slab of unfathomableness
already acknowledged.... “ Constant Subscriber ”: Salary
about £385,000. per annum. Expenses, salaries and pen-
sions to relatives, etc., probably about £600,000 more
“James Patrick”: Item of no general interest...,
“ E.G.5.0.” (Melb.-): The love-song of the respondent, as
he breathed forth Ids burning melody to the co-respon-
dent, is only ordinary gush “ Northerner ’’: As you
say, the Argentine Government isn’t likely to give land to
the Queensland emigrants unless it is land that it can’t
sell. No Government in its senses ever does “ E.R.”
(Parramatta): Unsuitable “ The Derelict ” : Contains
some good ideas, but too lengthy.. .“Firefly”: In all
your shoreless waste of ink, there isn’t one gleam of
interest, or brains, or horse-sense, or anything else that
is calculated to save your name from public obloquy
“ Riverina Bushy ” : (1) A foreigner naturalised in Great
Britain remains a British subject in any part of the
British Empire. A foreigner naturalised in a British
colony is a British subiect only within the limits of that
colony. (2) As far as ability to vote goes, any person can
vote whose name is on the electoral-roll, whether impro-
perly there or not. It will remain on the electoral-roll
until a formal objection is taken to it at the proper legal
time. A w oman has thus been known to claim the right
to vote, because her name, which was “Frances,” was
mistaken for that of a man, and she polled just as effec-
tively' as a Francis. (3) Germans naturalised in South
Australia need by law fresh papers of recognition in N.S.
Wales before they can claim voting powers in N.S. Wales.
“ Toto ” : Ail the laugh is on the side of democracy.
“Shako” (B): You don’t send name and ad
“M.”: Have already bad it, thanks “ Paul M 1”:
Letter for you at Melbourne G.P.O “ Joseph ” (K.):
A very excellent idea “ Prompt Corner ” : Thanks ;
name and address, please... “T. Sinclair ”: To hand....
“P. Gawey”: Siamns received. No address “J. 8.”
(Eidsvold): Many thanks “K.W.”: Unavailable..,,
“ Sans Souci" : Letter posted to M.-street, Woollahra—
“Vacolo”: The Bulletin, you see, isn’t connected with
any other paper. Some of the newspaper proprietaries
run two papers with two different sets of opinions. For
example, one “dignified” daily, which travels on its im-
partiality, runs an evening rag to stir up sectarian rows
and do other dirty work for it ; another, which gammons
to be democratic, runs a weekly print to kow'-tow' to the
property-vote and the military clique... “H.T.W.”
(New C.): Too rough and too much spun-out. Letter
posted “E.W.” (W.S.); We never consciously appro-
priate unacknowledged other people’s matter. You, or
any other reader, will do us a service by pointing out any
such appropiiation. If we like any Wring to the point of
reproduction, we are only too glad to give due credit...
“A New Year’s Night”: Address? ~.. “ E.L.0.” :
Those who, like you, still believe Kanaka trade will not
reduce the price’of white labour, might look to the Cape,
where, twelve years ago, mechanics' wages ran to a pound
a dav, and now, through Malay, bastard Hottentot and
Kaffir competition, are a mere dog’s price compared with
those of the white Australian workers “ Edgar A. H.”
(E.R., N.): Please call “S. M. Watts”: Note posted
to Warralda... “Ease”: Try again “Sardonyx”:
Letter posted (o Ararat “ W.J.T.” : Thanks
“ 173” : Too late. We have had the reprint from several
sources ... “ L.L.” : Wo delight in seeing* The Bulletin s
cover taken off and throw'll away. That is the homage
which the paper’s enemies pay to its attractiveness.
[Many replies held over.]


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
/And Foster MlotHers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. lIADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms: 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
ANDREW USHER & CO.'S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under :
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VATTJBD GLFINLIVET WHISKY,
AND
‘‘ Usher's Special Reserve."
KLAUK A ItICCALL, Solicitors.
120 WILLIAM-ST., MELB,
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to Castle-
reagh-street),
Between King& Market Sts.,
SVD\EV,
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITV
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
UODOLPII T.I'DOi?. Manageii,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
Amusements.
JPJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
IMMENSE SUCCESS OF
The LONDON GAIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
in
“ Carmen Up to Data.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
Q. ARR I C K THEA t R E
MONDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 10.
she Soldene §omic §pera Company
—IN—
“ GENEVIEVE WE It It A WANT.”
By specially selected artists—introducing the latest Lon-
don and American sensation, “ The Serpentine Dance.”
KSf” Popular prices. Box Plan now open at Nicholson’s.
TUT R. HAR R Y RICKARDS
AND HIS
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY.
Enormous Success, and Crowded Houses Everywhere.
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne, until 7th October.
Opera House, Melbourne, Bth October.
Princess Theatre, Bendigo, 10th October (Six Nights).
Academy of Music, Ballarat, 17th October (Six Nights).
Theatre Royal, Adelaide, 26th October (for Season).
SYDNEY SHORTLY.
Business Manager ... JOHN C. LEETE.
QOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Proprietor ~ .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
Every Sunday Afternoon
High • class and Enjoyable Concert. *
Quadrille Assembly every Wednesday Afternoon.
The Marble Swimming Baths now Open.
Ladies from 10 till 2 Daily.
r[IHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE.
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
&3T All Railway Travelling. T£3i
Apply for particulars, cable address—“ OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. B.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
w
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. Cd., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. Cd., 18s. Cd.. steel reeds, 215., and 235. Cd.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. Cd., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £6 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS:—Any respectable person in Town or Country
may purchase one or more instruments by paying Is.
deposit, and the remainder to be paid off by instalments
at Is. a week. Postage stamps will do for country cus-
tomers. (Agents wanted.) J. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-
street. Cheapest Music Warehouse in Australia. Illus-
trated catalogues and particulars posted FREE.
Furniture, etc.
Drawingroom suites.
LAWLER’S,
Drawingroom Suites (508,
Drawingroom Suites 010 V
Drawingroom Suites 012,
Drawingroom Suites Geokgb Street,
Drawingroom Suites Sydney.
advt
CATALOGUES POST FREE
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
... r.........
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
Diningroom Suites
LAWLER’S
STEAM
FACTORIES,
1, 2, 3, t, 5,
0, 7, 8, 9, 10
UNION LANE.
advt
CATALOGUES POST FREE
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
LAWLER’S
ILLUSTRATED
FURNISHING
GUIDES
POST
FREE.
advt
ASTONISHING VALUE THROUGHOUT.
JOHN LAWLER and SONS.
ASTONISHING VALUE THROUGHOUT.
Plain Pinewood LAWLER’S,
Plain Pinewood THE
Plain Pinewood COMPLETE
Plain Pinewood AND
Plain Pinewood THROUGHOUT
Plain Pinewood FURNISHERS.
Tables, 6/6
Tables, 8/6
Tables, 12/6
Safes, 11/6
D ressers, 17/6
Dressers, 45/-
Bedsteads
Bedding
Bod stead a
Bedding
Bedstead-
Bedding
IF
ECONOMICAL,
GET
ESTIMATES
AT
LAWLER’S.
12/6 15/-
21/ - 25/-
82/6 45/-
50/ - 57/6
70/- 90/-
100/ 120/-
IST LA WEEK'S HAVE THE PALM
EOJ! BEDDING.
advt
Pure,
Wholesome,
And
Health-giving
Lawler’s
Bedding.
m INFORMATION FREELY SUPPLIED.
LAWLER and SONS
PROMPTLY ANSWER ALL INQUIRIES.
Carpets LAWLER'S
Carpets For
Carpets Fl.< )OKCLUTHS,
Carpets LAWLER'S
Carpets For
Carpets FI ,Of .MiC LOTUS.
Halls,
Stairs,
Drawing,
Library
And
Diningrooms.
*ar FOR FURNISHING NIOKNAOK8,
SPECIALISTS,
AND FOR TIP-TOP VALUE, TOO.
advt
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
EVERY DEPARTMENT OE A
FURNISHING HOUSE
COMPLETE and THROUGHOUT
At
JOHN LAWLER AND SONS,
008, GEORG E-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Every inquiry attended to, and to the best of
our ability fullest possible information gladly sup-
plied.
LAWLER’S,
ESTABLISHED UPWARDS OE
30 YEARS.
FURNITURE, BEDSTEADS, BEDDING, &c.
m
©-'■a
(f
a
m
mm.
H _
49,000 in Use. Record, 179 words per nilunto.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. An l
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast a:
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst tin
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will nc
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligrapl
produces 15 flrst-clsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY: J. E. Cunningham, S 4 Elizabeth-st ; MEL
BOURNE: C. AS. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers
Coliins-street; BRISBANE ; Webster & Co. ; ADELAIDE
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J, Walch & Sons.
MASON BROTHERS
(limited),
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
253 to 277 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the Trade and Wholesale
buyers only,
Ironmongery «i General Hard ware,
GLASS, CHINA, AND EARTH ENWA RE
WINES, BEERS, & SPIRITS,
and
GENERAL BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for— LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
OLD BRANDIES.
J. T. GAYEN’S Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN & CO.’S Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S “ Pelican ” Stout.
“THE ROYAL EDINBURGH CASTLE ”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKIES.
UPULAR WATCHES AT POPULAR
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an enviable reputa-
tion as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and IN-
EXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
SERIES ‘ E,’ the old long-winding Pioneer.
SERIES M’ (for Gents) and ‘L’ (for Ladies),
the time-tried short-winding Wonders, are still to
be obtained at popular prices within the means of
all.
SERIES ‘K, 1 THE NEW GENTLEMEN’S
WATERBURY, a splendid watch fitted with all
the most modern improvements. Prices
305., Sterling Silver 455., Rolled Gold 675. 6d.
SERIES ‘N,’ THE NEW LADIES’ WATER-
BURY, a perfect little Gem. Prices —Nickel
255., Sterling Silver 405,, Rolled Gold 555.
Mr. G. Evans, watchmaker, Ho wick-street,
Bathurst, writes under date 15th. June, 1892 ; “I
have carefully examined the Waterbury Watches,
and find them splendidly finished, especially the
Gold-cased Series ‘K ’; and I am of the opinion
that they are the grandest watches made in the
world for the money. I always wear one of the
Gold Series ‘K,’ and it keeps the very best of
time. ”
Waterbury Watch Co.’s
Repair Depot,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney,
ALL IN SEARCH OF HEALTH
should use Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Appli-
ances. Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Belts and Corsets
arc universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest, and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption,
Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis.
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Paralysis. Loss of
Voice, Nervousness, Indigestion, Palpitation, etc.,
and have cured some of the most obstinate and
distressing cases after all other remedies (so called)
have failed. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating, health-
giving current to the whole system without shock.
Owing to the great success and enormous repu-
tation gained by Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric
Appliances since their introduction (now many
years ago), they have, like all other good things,
been largely imitated by numerous parasitical
charlatans. Illustrated Circular and Price List
of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances sent
post free to any address on application to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
PRICES!
Note the Address.
People in London want to know who is
the young lady whose attractions have induced
the Earl of South Esk to forswear the charms of
English life.
We have just been re-reading Sir Henry
Parkes’ business advertisement in Low’s Almanac
for 1847—-“Ivory and bone rings for sale.” And
now, after the lapse of nearly half-a-century, the
old man is still becoming regularly a happy pa.
Gum-rings ! Wonder whether he now buys ’em
or makes ’em himself?
The centenary of the glorious French
Republic cannot fail to send a thrill through
every loyal Australian heart. After all, Robe-
spierre, Marat, and Danton, with all their
bungling, succeeded, even in the face of Mirabeau’s
treachery. They planted the bed-rock on which
the monarchies and empires were only weather-
board and scantling.
Mar up a, the People’s
Friend.
Without question the medicines most sought
after now-a-days are those of Mother Mary Joseph
Aubert, and deservedly so, from what is heard of
their high merits everywhere. In nearly every
ease where a trial has been given relief has almost
immediately ensued. The testimonies of people
in various social positions have been forwarded to
the proprietor, and each asserts that the remedy
has truly marvellous qualities.
While that brilliant young actress, Miss Myr
Kemble, was in Wellington her voice became sa
hoarse that she was in some fear she would bo
imperfectly heard from the stage that eveninge
but Maropa was recommended, and the effect was
wonderful, she, states in her testimony. ,
Mr. Walter Bentley had a similar attack, and
was afforded relief by a dose of Marupa.
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert has devoted nearly
all her life to the study of medicine. In Paris she
studied in the leading hospitals for five years, and
when she came out to New Zealand her love of
the science prompted her to commence research
among the herbs and flowers of the primeval
forests which Nature has so richly endowed our
colony with, and after 12 years of patient investi-
gation, her efforts were crowned with success and
her reinedies gratefully acknowledged to be the
best and purest medicines ever offered.
They are now being introduced in Australia,
and are having the same success there as they
have met here. Mr. Kempthorne has opened a
branch in Sydney and is putting up the medicines
as fast as he can.
Meanee, Sept. 14, 1891.
D ear Sister,—T am too thankful to have the
opportunity of testifying to the genuineness of
your medicines, having given up all hopes of ever
getting better, until a friend brought you to'me,
when four small bottles of your medicine cured
me, and what is more, I have been a stronger man
ever since. That was in July, 1882.
Henry Painter, senr,
Meanee, Sept. 30, 1891.
Messrs Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.
Gentlemen,—Having used Sister Joseph’s medi-
cines for over 12 years, I can honestly say that
they cannot be surpassed.
I have seen a number of hopeless cases brought
to her and cured. She is the best, kindest, and
noblest of ladies, and never made any charge to
rich or poor, nor did it matter to what denomina-
tion you belonged you had the same kindness
shown you.
My own daughter, eleven years of age, met with
an accident, and although some of the best doctors
in Hawkes Bay despaired of saving her life, Sister
Joseph never gave up, but worked hard day and
night, and, thank God, saved her life.—Yours, &c.,
M. Young.
Napier Telegraph,
(March 25, 1892.)
Mr. H. Owen, one of our local chemists, certifies
in our columns to the benefits derived from the
use of Mother Mary Joseph Aubert’s remedies.
It is evident there is a great future before these
purely local vegetable medicines, and which we
hear are now about to be introduced into New
South Wales, Victoria, and the other Australian
Colonies, and will bring the name of New Zealand
very prominently before the public of the Southern
Continent, and be one of the best advertisements
for this Colony. The proprietor deserves success
from the spirited way in which he has entered into
this enterprise.
Christchurch Press.
(March 8, 1892.)
A Flattering Testimony.— In our advertising
columns will be found copy of a letter addressed
by Lord Onslow to Dr. de la Bachoue, the French
Consul in Wellington, in the course of which his
Lordship bears testimony to the efficacy of the
medicines manufactured by the Rev. Mother
Mary Joseph Aubert. These remedies are ex-
tracted from New Zealand plants, and Lord
Onslow states that he has found them perfectly
satisfactory and really tonic and fortifying.
Mother Mary Josoph Au.bert
has been particularly successful with
“ PARAMO,’’
and is daily receiving numberless inquiries in
reference to it.
The agents are continually getting letters and
telegrams from all parts of New Zealand, and
have confidence in saying that no other remedies
are giving the same amount of general satisfaction.
Give
“PARAMO ”
a fair trial, and note how quickly your mental
depression leaves you. It is worth the experiment,
and will certainly do no harm.
J T WAS TOO CHEAP.
A good story is told of a physician, who on
meeting a patient, put the question to him
“ Well, iiovv did the prescription work?” “Oh”
replied the erstwhile invalid, “it was a complete
disappointment.” “Indeed; how is that’”
queried the puzzled medico. “ Well, it cost me
seven and sixpence to have it made up by the
chemist, and here I am better after taking a
couple of doses; all that money has gone for
nothing.” This incident has its ludicrous side
although after all it is but another verification of
the truth of the proverb that “ That which is easily
gained is little valued.” It is a remarkable fact
that some people are so constituted that they can-
not bring themselves to believe that under proper
conditions there is nothing antagonistic between
cheapness combined with simplicity and genuine
merit. The fallacy of concluding, without other
sufficient reason, that because an article is cheap
it mutt necessarily be proportionately “nasty”
and of small worth, is principally shared by the
ladies, although it is a characteristic of some of
the sterner sex as well. Especially is this the case
w ith persons afflicted by accident or disease.
They somehow get the notion into their heads
that their greatest safety rests in retaining the
services of a surgeon or a so-called specialist (who
as likely as not will consult his own pocket in not
effecting too speedy a cure), and will scout with
derision the idea of a simple, natural remedy being
able to effect any good. To a large extent the
common prejudice against anything that bears the
name of a patent medicine is responsible for this;
the very important fact being overlooked that
there are patent medicines and {latent medicines.
“By their fruits ye shall know them ; ” that is
the only legitimate test. The good fame and
known value, for instance, of that greatest of all
household remedies, St. Jacobs Oil, has now
become so widespread and generally recognised in
every clime and country under the”sun that it has
in the case of many thousands come to be regarded
with even greater trust than the family physician.
Indeed, in not a few instances, where the best
efforts of the latter functionary resulted in failure,
St. Jacobs Oil has come to the rescue and raised
the patient, crippled and racked with pain, from
a bed of suffering from which formerly there
seemed no escape short of death itself.


ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
A pure and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-parasitic and slightly alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth wheie decay originates, removes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath ; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2s. 9d. per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes red or grey hair a permanent Brown or
Black, It, Ask any dealer in perfumery for
Rowlands’ articles,of 20,Hatton Garden,London.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet;
M
k Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London W.C.
JTbkilliant complexion
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
Vanisli like BdEagic
By a few applications of
professor (Devon’s < Complexion potion.
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
clear the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. US"' Beware of worthless counterfeits-they
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
5s, (id., Stamps or P.O.O.
Prof. DEVON,
20 Castlkrbagh Struct (City), SYDNEY.
BOOKS ! BOOKS! BOOKS !
Itought aiul Exchanged,
LIB RABIES PUR 011 ASE D.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
w
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready , post free Is Cd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To he had only of
M'hn, PANZA, Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
£lOO IN GOLD
and Other valuable Presents given away to those
who guess the Rebus
mu
,Ilf
The above Rebus is an old saying familiar to
everyone. What is it? We will the first
r>erson from whom W© receive tn© COi I ©CX
answer before December 30th, 189-’, £25 in gold ;
to the second, £l2 10s.; to the next five persons, a
handsome Silk Dress Pattern of IG. yards in Black,
Blue, Green, Brown or Fancy; arid to the next 15
sending in correct answer £1 each, and to the first
of the next 10, a Solid Gold Genuine Diamond
Ring. To the person from whom we receive the
last correct answer, £2oin gold; to the next to the
last, £l2; the next 5, a handsome Silk Dress Pat-
tern of 16 yards in one of the above colors; to
the first of the next 10, a Solid Gold genuine
Diamond Ring ; and to the next 15 should there be
so many send in correct answers, £1 apiece.
We prepay all shipping or postage charges on
presents, and send in accordance with this oiler on
the same day the answer is received. All answers
must be sent by mail registered and received by us
not later than December SOth with your answer.
Send us £2 in notes or gold for one of Mac-
namara’s Electric Life Belts.
THE KI-YA Si TI-TA INSTITUTE,
ELIZABETH STREET (near Bathurst Street),
SYDNEY.
Over 8000 cases of disease treated by our Specialists
in 12 months without a failure.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE!
XX:
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, '9O, says:—‘ 1 think thorn such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
‘ SALON,” May, ’9;): “ It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give groat relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.E.C.P., Edin , says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving tlie carriage and appearance of the
figure without fbe injurious effects of tbe ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Diapers’ write Patentee, 15,
olaremont, Hastings, England.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
CAULFIELD C.-Oct. 15.
At 5 each. (50,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 5000 ; Second, 1250 ; Third, 1000 ; S (d), 1000 ;
N S (d), 1150 ; 10 at 100, 1000; 10 at 50, 500 ; 10 at 20,
200 ;50 at 10, 500 ; 50 at 5, 250; 100 consolations at 2 ;
350 consolations at 1.
MELBOURNE C—NoV. 1.
At 5 each, (100,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10 000: Second, 2500; Third, 1500; S (d), 2000 ;
N S (d\ 2500 ; 20 at 100, 2000 ; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 20 at 20,
400 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 consolations at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
Stale amount enclosed, and addressed envelopes with
application—one for receipt and the other for result.
Register. Address: GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-
street, Sydney, N.S.W, For full particulars send for our
printed circulars.
TATTERS ALL’S
CAULFIELD CUP.
Run at Caulfield, in October, 1892.
50,000 at 10 50,000
MELBOURNE CUP
Run at Flemington, November 1, 1892.
100,000 at 20 100,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
Address—“ TATTERSALL,” care of QEOROB
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
k\f' .' V
srr
GIVES NERVE POWERS
fSm*S£k
IMPROVES DICES l lON
. MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
*£±.JID
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER.
OVER 20 TEARS before the PUBLIC oe NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOUTH WALES
MELBOURNE CTJP.
20 JESabcJkx- —20,000—20 ESacli
FIRST, 8000 ; SECOND, 2000; THIRD, 1000; S. (divided), 1500 ; N.S. (divided), 2000 ; 5 -at 100 ert-h, 500 ; 30 at 5(7
each, 1500 ;75at 20 each, 1500 ; 200 at 10 each, 2000. 310-extra -810.
MELBOURKTE CTJP,
lO 25,000 —IO Bach
FIRST, 5000; SECOND, 1500; THIRD, 1000 ; S. (divided), 1000 ; N.S. (divided). 1000; 20 at 50 each, 1000 ;25 at 20
each, 500 ; 100 at 10 each, ItOO ; 100 at 5 each, 500. 245 - extra - 245.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of the P.O. receipt till you receive our reply. Thanking you'
for past patronage and trusting for continuance of your support. Programmes Sent on Application.
Address— ADAM BEDE,” Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Sydney.
5681 ‘ia:ia;a;jArEC-A.oJKC »si ‘jNi:c>a^-ojKE3ci?\EaL ,r "v** Mnis
j u aMmoaaaw svnvsjmjAi
100,000 AT 20 100,000
BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS, AND TAKE CARE OF
THE P.u. RECEIPT TILL YOU GET OUR REPLY.
50,000 AT
10 50,000
Address —“ TATTESSALL,” care of George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
ON READING A "SHORTING PAPER."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. with his staying power should win,
1 Though C, with the pace of her sire and dam.
Should run him close in the battle and din,
When the whips are out, and the talent shout,
And the favourite proves himself a sham.
C lias a chance if ins legs hold good
And regains the form he had in the past ;
While D, who has trained in the sweaters and hood,
Though small in size might effect a surprise
And oomein first, in the bunch, or last.
A likely pair are at six-stone-eight,
In E and F, who are trained abroad ;
And G, though reported amiss of late,
Should be heading the ruck, if he has any luck,
Though he’s often proved himself a fraud.
The others, of whicli there are only three.
Are not of the class to win such races,
But the turf’s so prone to uncertainty—
If the weather’s wet and you wisli to bet
Just back the three to win you places.
Such are the tips the prophets write,
And are followed by many who want a bone ;
And the dude, the most unearthly sight,
Who dreams of the collars he’ll buy with the dollars
He’ll win if the horse he backs gets home.
And bookies and trainers and jockeys smile.
Or rather, the trainers and jockeys grin
For they pass their lives and their time beguile
In “ fakes ” of the turf which permit of no mirth,
And the science of taking others in.
This, ye mugs ! is “ the Sport of Kings ! ”
And the winning horse is made a god,
While the useful moke whose struggle brings
The hay for the toy which but carries the boy,
Is starved and refused ten feet of the sod.
PETER BLOCK.
Trank Slavin'* wife (writes out’ London corres-
pondent) has persuaded him to “quit" fighting, and he
has promised to do so,, with the reservation that he is to
I,!, allowed to have another go at Jackson when the darkie
G willing. Slavin has taken a.nice little public-house in
,i rmyn-street, and should, if he keeps straight and sticks
lo.business, be able to knock out a decent living there.
Of course, as‘a beaten man he can hardly expect to be
i! juried and run after as he was after his fight with Smith,
a.id this makes a wonderful difference in.a drinking-shop,
s min is to have a fine gymnasium, and athletic-hall at
Pie rear of the house. But even that game is about
played out. The jeunesse- doree prefer looking at fights
no.v to scrapping themselves.
# * *
Joe Thompson, writes our London, corres-
pondent, is lying rather low at present, and brother
Burney has given up his rooms in Jermyn-street,.finding,
I suppose, that the commission business did not pay.
The professional backer is a knowing bird, and. you have
II get up very early in the morning to put salt on his
t.il, Joe has found, too, that the English bookies have
luthing to learn from a graduate of Melbourne or Sydney
Tittersall’s, and whether for pluck or for clear-headed-
iuss, men like Red Hot Fry are pretty hard to beat. For
a time, Joe stood.his ground and rather “ astonished the
natives” by his figures, but a bad Monday or two soon
proved to him the truth of. the Irish adage that “ fair and
aisy goes far in a day.” Joe’s position among ring
men.is a good one.
* * *
Ckulfield Guineas, on Saturday, when the ghost
of the old Melbourne “ racing carnival ” will make its first
appearance this season. The Y.A.T.C. committee are
wise in anticipating a quiet time and a hard struggle to
make both ends meet, for it is tolerably' certain that more
people will economise by missing Caulfield this year than
hy omitting to “do ” the Cup a few weeks later. Pre-
liminary, betting on the Guineas is a madness of the past,
apparently,, and as- the form. of. the three-year-olds is a
darker mystery than usual, the mile race" will not be
uorth considering until the horses are saddled up, and
(here seems little hope for punters to find a “ dead bird ”
even then. The Stakes, the first race of the meeting,
may give the public an idea for the future, however, as in
i lie years when Mentor and the Admiral got home.
Tirailleur,. Linburn, Annesly, Meli, and G’Naroo are
torses to be observed and noted if they put in an appear-
ance, but Guineas Day, at Caulfield, has usually been a
tad’one for the public, so the intelligent reader is advised
n do nothing unless he thinks he knows, and not to risk
Iris boots-in any case.
* * m
Elliott, the Caulfield jockey of a few years ago,
died on his way back to Australia from India. Elliott,
like Mick. O’Brien, married one of J. G. Heywood’s
daughters, and the two widowed sisters are in deep
mourning together..
# » *
The postponement of the totalisator question in
the Vic. Assembly begins to look like a blessing in dis-
guise. It has given the country racing clubs time to
pass resolutions calling upon the district senators to vole
for the machine.
# *■ *
The cabled statement that “ Abingtom” Baird
had paid a three years’ retaining-fee of £20,000 to jockey
Watts-has since been modified to £9OOO. However, there
is no boundary-line to turf folly, which seems to grow
wilder every year. And Baird, after all, may get much
totter value for his money than did “ Foxhall ” Keene,
the Yankee, who, having, in 'B2, paid Tom Cannon a
retaining-fee of £2OOO for the season, only gave the jockey
at out 20 mounts (mostly wretchedly bad ones) in all—an
average of £IOO for every time he walked in with the
wow.l. Keene’s retainer, as it happened, did more harm
than good to the horseman. Cannon was to ride Gelieim-
niss, a 9-to 4 on favourite, for the Leger and had backed
the mare heavily. At almost the last moment Keerie’s
trainer decided to start a hopeless crock named Romeo,
and Cannon was called upon to sport the colours of his
“first ” employer. A light-weight jock, quite unusedl to
the ways of the said Geheimness, was substituted tor
Ginnon, and. the mare finished second. The new hoy
i. understand how to make her go when Fred Archer
came alongside on Dutch Oven, so the “ dead bird got
heat.” ,
* «• #
Bays Larry Foley, the pugilistic tutor of the
world’s champion pug; “All that Mace taught me, and
all I know, I’ve put into Peter Jackson. Yes ! The-
nigger is the greatest fistic artist the world ever saw.
come say he lias no devil in him. True enough ; as a man
lie is good-hearted and generous, but as a fighter he is
cruel and cunning. He can tie as savage as a lion, and
yet look like a lamb. Pluck? He’d fight a circular-saw.
Bh reach ? With aims semaphore, he measures 7ft. 2in.
from,finger-tip to finger-tip. Very few men exceed their
own height. Do you understand? He was with me for
Uiree years. He had not the faintest notion of boxing
'men he joined me. First he was very clumsy, and so
mu? v* 16 Ul( ' a S° him. But in a little while, sparring
with him meant warm exercise ; worrying him meant
catching a Tartar. lie began to get a reputation. One
'ay a huge imlly swaggered in. ‘l’ve heard a lot about
7,9 B'hf nigger; I want to fight him 1’ ‘Now!’ I
said, you- leave the nigger alone; lie hasn’t done any-
thing to you.’ ‘I don’t want talk, I want to fight the
J'gger. ‘All right! Fight him!’ The visitor went out
A l ., ® second round. In training, Jackson is the best
j. !fi ete alive ; out of condition, absolutely the worst. I’d
ke to train him to fight Corbett. Corbett is a hand-
vviu 6 1. °"’. He reminds me that Apollo was a good god
o 5 fists. His victory over Sullivan is no criterion,
r n * V >^ n ’ w ' ien * n Australia, confessed to me, ‘ I’m done ;
fn?°u t' ailt tn Eight anymore!’ Yes! I know Corbett
ight Jackson 50 rounds, but I also know that Jackson
‘S-very sick at the time. Jackson would have beaten
■ Slavin just the same had their last fight been
j under P.R. rules. Slavin, when fighting, is rs
I furious as a mad bull • dog. He bit Jackson on
the shoulder the night they had the rough-and-
tumble in my bar. Goddard ! —a live punching-bag
I for Jackson, nothing more. I fancy I can see the nigger
j grinning at him in the ring. Jackson can beat them all—
ido you understand?” Scores of people have written to
j Foley in this strain—“ What a mad freak yours is!—
teaching a black man to beat a white one.”
' * # #
\ Foley says that in all his long experience he
j has met only one Burge. “ Burge is a freak of nature-a
j being who can’t feel. He came to me and said, ‘l’m
i going to fight a navvy; how much for 12 lessons?’ ‘£3.’ I
sparred with him. He was as ignorantasa postabout self-
defence. I took pity on him. ‘ Here’s your £3 back, old
man ! Just quit fighting and go on with your work.’ My
advice was wasted. He fought the navvy and beat him.
Burge’s head is of iron—the man who leads on him knocks
ids hand up, that is all. The Man with the Scythe is the
only one who can knock Burge out.”
i * # #
The cockneys seem to have crowed lustily over
the defeat of Nottinghamshire for the county cricket
championship, not so much because the Surrey men are
the local heroes, but because they play an infinitely
livelier game than Shrewsbury & Cos. When it comes to
a matter of England v. Australia, however, they will find
Shrewsbury’s baiting “sturdy” instead of “monotonous.”
A similar change of opinion may be noted in Melbourne
as regards Bannerraan. Playing for N.S.W. against
Victoria little Aleck is a ghastly nuisance, but when he
blocks Lohmann’s catch balls for five hours at a stretch it
is a positive “ treat ” to see him do it.
# * *
Spofforth unburdens to an English interviewer.
He recommends young bowlers to practise fast from the
beginning.
# # »
D. D. Gazette (Q.) girds at S.M. Herald for
its recent lengthy cablegram re the Corbett-Sullivan fight.
However, it is a healthy sign when the Herald condes-
cends to cablegraphieaily become a newspaper instead of
being a mere waste-bin for items such as “ Lord Stutfin-
crop is indisposed.”
* * *
Barrister to N.S.W. bankrupt under exam. ;
“ Witness, do you ever bet?” “ Yes, I once backed ,
belonging to the petitioning creditor, who was disqualified
for life and warned off the turf for stiff running.” The
petitioning creditor here reached for his hut and left.
* # #
A “suitable testimonial” of 3000 guineas has
been presented to old .John Osborne, the English jockey,
on his retirement from the racing-saddle, after a 50 years’
career. The expression “greasing the fat pig” scarcely
applies to a man who can still ride at something under
Derby weight.
» # #
At a Melbourne spiritualistic seance Hon, Jas.
White, called from his present place of abode, and asked
the winner of the Cup, gave “ Zalinski.”
# # #
A Melbourne tipster gave himself away badly
the other week. In his advt. he stated that as all his
“clients” had got on their money he would give the
public the benefit of his information befoie the race, in
order to show its value. Then he gave Bungebah for the
Metropolitan—and Bungy was duly scratched.
* # *
On an influential Queensland paper the sub-
editor is police-court reporter, musieal critic, boxing
editor, and society man. The other night he was in a
quandary. There was a social function at Government
House, and down town a boxing-match of some interest.
After much tribulation he decided on the function and
got a friend to get the details of the mill. The friend
couldn’t go and obtained a bloodthirsty account from
another party. The fight took nearly two hours and
ended in a decisive victory for the Woolloomooloo Pet (so
he said) and this duly appeared in print with trimmings
of carnage and blood. Asa matter of fact, the fight was
of the genus “ fake” and the W. Pet lay down in the first
round and resolutely refused to get up.
There is said to be a political disagreement
between the two knights of the Queensland
Cabinet.
Parkes refused to pair or leave the
N.S.W. Assembly daring the recent debate. He
looked very washy when it was all over.
Deputy-Speaker Ninian Melville voted
against the Lawnorder party in the recent N.S.W.
crisis. Incongruous? What price Australian
securities after this?
The cleverest thing Henniker Heaton has
done for a long time is a “ supplementary report ”
to the British Postmaster-General’s annual report.
It is a lovely piece of irony.
Donald Larnach’s son, Herbert, has just
died in England. He was in the wool-trade, and
once or twice visited Sydney. He was married to
a daughter of Ansdell, the well-known painter.
Young Larnach was only 31 years of age.
Interesting item from Sydney Morning
Herald, Oct. 3 :
Halloran.— Sept. 27. At the Great Northern Hotel,
Newcastle, the wife of Henry Halloran, C.M.G., of a son.
The poet Halloran is five years older than the poet
Parkes, being 82.
Against Dibbs’ unauthorised appropriation
of £1000 to foot his travelling bills, may be placed
a few samples of parliamentary-unsanctioned
expenditure by Parkes: —The Eveleigh estate,
.£100,000; Rossiville estate, £16,000; Darling
Island, £150,000; Campbell’s Wharf, £280,000;
Circular Quay land, £30,000; the ship Sobraon,
£11,000 ; and the Imperial Federation guzzle in
Sydney Town Hal 1 .
Grover Cleveland’s manifesto relative to
the principles of the U.S. Democratic Party has
been occasioning the editors of Australian Foreign-
trade publications much anguish. The cabled
summary concludes: “Mr. Cleveland does not
propose any immediate return to Freetrade.”
This cruel sentence has cost the Sydney Foreign-
traders whole columns of agony. Their trouble
is that they have all been swearing that that was
what Cleveland did propose.


Registered
Hegiaterert
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
mss^m
■ '.s'
Rasmussen Eat
° ™
■IZ
;!o As*TOKEN Of GRATITU DE c gIS
F*o*mCfnus PATIENTS
rmoncM,
Ws&mmMm
GOLD MEDAL.
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DISCOVERED and. REGISTERED Toy
Herr IES^XSS^TTSSIEEbT.
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured. Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
I
SWORN TESTIMONY.
Statutory
llllil
Declaration.
ITHOS. MTJDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a hist hope, obtained some of Herr Eassmussea’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL IILFALINE
PILLS,” winch I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ML within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, tins 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the P°ace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen.—I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debdity of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.—
Wsi. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir a d
Benefactor,—It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me un,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albuey, G-l Washiugton-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen—I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both in my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barklyst, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.—F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.—John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. — A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, IGO
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautitier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.—J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Gough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.—P. H. Kbim, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe. Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen.—I have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers : I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.—George Want, Railway Orescent, Bovvral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
”
■
m
m
HERR RASSM I'SSEX,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in tbe ‘‘ Centennial History of
H. S- Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and. Errors of Youth.
Boxes—Cs. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes— Gs. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. Cd. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted Is Cd
35., 6s. and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes
posted, 35., 65., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and Cs.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing tho Hair turning Grey and falling off. Posted
3s. and Cs. ’
Herr Rassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press,
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of ner’
forming many great cures during the last few years as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying' to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Eventno
News.
Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“ Centennial History of N.S.W.”
‘We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”—A ustralian Star.
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
leutii. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”—Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen wo are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjovs
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.”—Cooktown Courier (Q.). * ’
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN CF MARK.
“Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them Mr
Ramsdcn’s case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “ doctors ” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
suffering humanity.”—Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme.
dies everybody has heard, soon became known b\
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank ol
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
r the world are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after thej
had given up all hope.”—The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN? ,
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that Ins Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
U ales - Essenden and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser.—lst July 1892
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
Testimonials.
TT T , Parliament House, Sydney,
Herr Rassmupsen, Dear Sir, —I can truthfully asser
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills,
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. :
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number o
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hea
complaining of Rheumatic attacks, V?ith kind x’egards,
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.—Wm. H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, Varicocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any Kind. Ordinary course 235. 6d.
posted. Special powerful double course, 435. 6d. posted. Boxes at
Cs. and 12s.
Chief Head Depot:
547 G-EOEG-E STREET,
SYDNEY.
IW" MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Hoad Depot:
150 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
fry 1!. me lies sent Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
t-W" Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot;
QTJEEIT STEE E T,
BRISBANE.
Uemcclics sent Dufy Free.
THE GENUINE ALFA LINE
REMEDIES CAN ONLY HE OBTAINED FROM THE ABOV E M E NITON EI) DEPOTS.
“ T3a.C3 3XTEt-fcxa.i'aul Doctor.”
A Valuable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. Posted, Is.
Way be obtained from all Depots.
Important.
Always send money liy P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “ The AJfftlino Medical G
receipt of addressed and M, stamped envelope.
All correspondence
wide,” sent free on


4iood disinfectant, G N U N Darlings.
At Paddington you can buy G N U N Darlings.
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THE WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
I <\BOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO' Packets of the “RISING
SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE brightness.
Sold by all Grocers and sto f c l ;c fPf r f
N
ŵ
-THE-
MEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LMTD
ESTABLISHED 1865.
ffc-Ffi r'.tn ~ .... T-joxxcLoxx,
Branches in Australia: MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and
BROKERS IN WOOL, GRAIN, TALLOW, HIDES, SKINS,
General Manager in Australia . .. DAVID ELDER.
E.C.
ROCKHAMPTON.
LEATHER. ETC
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
6NUN Darlings take the cake.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize TO
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS ” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
■Sole Agents: McC AKi ll A tO.
very tiling in connection with the Trade stocked.
Reasonable Terms.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
File the Address :
MCCARTHY & 00., Tobacco
669 GEORGE STREET (HAY MARKET), SYDNEY.
Merchants,
‘When slovens get Hdy they polish the
bottoms of the p&nst-When
RVAHff
Ate giverffaaSllSiSirhey ai
never tired of cleaning up-
Two servants in two neighboring houses dwelt,
But differently their daily labor felt;
Jaded and weary of her life was one,
Always at work, and yet ’twas never done.
The other walked out nightly with her beau,
But then she cleaned house with SAPOLIO.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
Shipping
—s
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
li IN 37 DAYS,
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Erancisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, <£s2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
COMP AGNUS DES MESSAGERI£S MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to K URRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers ct 4000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from 1120 to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. —Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
£5 ss.
THE GREAT EXHIBITION
Lantern Set. r
SCIENTIFIC AMUSEMENTS
FOR ALLi TIME!
FROST & SHIPHAM, “MY OPTICIANS,” 462 GEORGE STREET.
48 pictures) in handy box, complete —
No. 2030-To throw Picture 2|ffc. in diameter,
No. 2031 ~ „ 3ft. „
No. 2032 „ „ 4ft,
5/-
8/6
12/6
extra Slides, 2/- doz.
„ 8/-
» 4/- , 8
No. 2033—T0 throw Picture sft. in diameter, 15/- extra Slides, 5/- doz.
No. 2034 — ~ 6ft. ~ 21/- ~ 5/0 ~
These Lanterns arc really good value, and show a clear, sharp, well-defined picture.
*£s ss.
THE GREAT EXHIBITION
Lantern Set*
provide heaps of amusement amongst the Lantern we beg to submit, has no equal for value and good points. First and foremost, it is not a, toy but an
Our great speciality this season is our EXHIBIiIObI Optical .Lantern, inis , a PP a ™P s > ” e u f 1 ’ lecturers, clergymen, public school teachers, and private persons, who wish to amuse
of * »' 18i “- * **“ “«
lanterns give a clear, sharp, stereoscopic, effective picture of 12ft. diameter.
The 1892
1 Exhibition *
£5 ss.
Lantern Set.
ẁ
The 1892
6 tlozi,’
£5 ss.
Lantern Set.
WITH THE LANTERN are supplied 3 Dozen Universal size Photographic Slides, consisting of:
12 <« A p at the Beauty g pots o{ th e World,” touching England, Scotland, Ireland, Europe, America, Africa. Australia, &c.-a unique tour of the world, specially selected as interesting and
Swiss Family Robinson, The Tiger and Tub, The Elephant’s Revenge, Gulliver's Travels, The Jackdaw of Rheims, Old Mother
beautiful spots known by repute to all of us.
12.— A set of coloured slides to illustrate an interesting or comic story as-
Hubbard, Heroes of the Lifeboat,
6. —Mechanical Slides, hand coloured,
being \ery clever and funny. V " ' . f vnr ; r)lics Vinds we have in stock, but are a good representation of what makes a good entertainment. Clients can have any subject they
These slides do not of course, give any idea.of *s® gut ifleft wi?h IX we Japply a Slecfcioii that must please. With the Set is also sent a work on the “Lantern and How to U. Jit,” 7
wish, and if not Phased, can c angc - In co ’ nc i us i on we have no hesitation in recommending this Lantern Set as the best and cheapest apparatus ever offered. Thousands of
are specially selected as
—Good Night.
giving
the fullest and minutest details. In conclusion,
Slides on all subjects in stock. Write to us ; we think it no trouble to answer questions.
FROST & SHIPHAM,
itt. S 3. JTercaia/n. 3ES. A., Osborn)
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
462, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LIM BLIGHT
LANTERNIST S,
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS, AND TRADERS IN ALL KINDS OF SCIENTIFIC
Lanterns on Hire. Skilful Operators sent to any part of the Colony. Write for Terms.
APPARATUS.
A Dead Poet.
, rveehlcaf Whittier’s dead.” The cabled stress
“John m pu ] se by one throb more or lean ;
Jl° v f," ve never yet communed with him
Fo** I 1 i g joined the chanting seraphim.
Who no ‘ aU ,rlit the echo of a lute
I've ” m ruin” comrades tell me now is mute.
That m 0 0; ' ,7 ev spea k, with words that burn,
So 'Vr/rnst raise him from the dead, and learn
Tliat '// of the singer Death hath kissed,
The ine . ■ -Tfcest echoes, somehow, I have missed.
Whose h , No poet dies whose songs
Ile '//ea ising ferment in a world of wrongs,
yeast cie> dravy coura ge from his psalm,
So Hip dead give living wounds a balm,
fiends 'post-mortem , my neglect, shall shrive ;
m Irnow- the dead I knew not when alive.
1 iif he had a message for the free,
Though he be dead, his soul shall speak to me.
■BVmn the circumstances surrounding tne
nf another Australian bigamist, just sen-
caS6 a to a Year’s gaol at Hobart, the question
tenced ( to bi / amy a natura i outcome of epilepsy?
Mandeville and Rosebery fell sick together
• isrew York, many years ago, and were both
m by (supposedly) rich heiresses. Rosebery
IU npd his but Mandeville was caught—and
found she only had £BOO a year.
A Melbourne deputation, with James
at its head, lately waited upon Pre-
■V qinpls to protest against stamp duties
'“T the unfair advantages enjoyed by the
f, ases ” “Take the case of tea and sugar,
m merchant Service, “it would appear that
% on these articles press the same on the poor
* ThP rich man, but this is not so, because the
f nor will use ten times as much as the former.
'ri,p sheer impudence of this assertion will cause
: ve n James’ customers, the grocers to utter a
yet the deputation wagged their heads
SS though they were each in the habit of
1 i wiiw themselves out with ten cups qf tea when-
the inferior working person drank one.
n.vrister Frank Madden then burst in with a
Sait idea. He begged to remind Shiels that
, ‘L ip-, and sugar which servants in households
1-fJr.otVa M by -.1.™.” Gifted Frank !
Tf he chooses to pay his servants extra wages m
lien of providing their tea and sugar, it will dawn
f,nn him that they have hitherto been m the
aabit of paying for their “keep” with money
imhie instead of specie.
The Vigilance Committee of Melbourne
adds a new terror to life, with a Miss Gimlet, who
is supported by Miss Auger, Mrs. Bore, been ter
Bitt, Esq., and the Rev. Sossidge Heye. Judge
Williams has been sitting on them, and the Lying-
in Hospital Committee snubs them, in an attempt
to make that body—of Tabithas —divulge secrets.
Damnosa houreditas —Damn nose, sir! How
red it is !
Auckland (M.L.) Observer styles a local
M.P., “ a man of one speech, his election speech;
which he learnt by rote.”
Recently, in Tasmania, an old couple, who
had lived happily together for forty years, had
occasion to apply to a “benevolent institution
for relief. For the first time poverty drove them
to beg. Someone informed the “ benevolent
authorities that this old couple had never been
tied together in holy matrimony. Application
refused until the mistake had been remedied
marry or starve ! To the parson they hastened.
He met the bride-elect with an awkward question :
“ la your first husband dead ? ” “Well, I dunno.
I ain’t seen him since he left me 40 or 50 years
ago.” Not sufficient evidence. Second applica-
tion refused !


ysu
>r.'
> ■
All throat and lung diseases, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral is the best known remedy. When the,
bronchial tubes are sore and obstructed with
phlegm, this medicine is invaluable. It is an
anodyne expectorant, and, in cases of deep
seated consumption, it cures the coughing,
soothes and heals the lacerated tissues, and
induces refreshing sleep. A few doses are usu-
ally sufficient to afford speedy relief in cases of
Colds and Coughs
It is also as speedily efficacious, and prompt
to allay the distressing symptoms of asthma,
bronchitis, sore throat, hoarseness, croup, and
whooping cough, and, in thousands of fami-
lies, is the only cure used, It is the best emer-
gency medicine and should always be at hand.
No household in which there are young chil-
dren, can afford to be without
flyer’s Cherry Pectoral,
PREPARED BY
Dr. J, C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
No. SONGS.
413. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). ' [in G. 579 in B.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
569. Maggie Murphy's Home.
585. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in C.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 in F.
618. Remember now thy Creator
619 Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
561. American Lancers (pop. melodias
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. The Country Wedding Barn Dance
THE HOLBOBN MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Baftjoin 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 1845] trade supplied. [Est. 1845
Jan also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
.-“ cf
■U M
LOHSE’S
MAIGLdCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all tjigb classTerfamers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
J{ Perfect Food.
HORLICK'S \m>‘
NOURISHING. Il|| I | yr
de Slcwus. |VII L. i\.
For INFANTS. For INVALIDS.
FOR THE AGED. Fob TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of nv.ik, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
Malted milk, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, D9l.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in a-y climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents
Ei.uott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON. E.C.
“German
yrup
99
Here is something from Mr. Frank
A. Hale, proprietor of the De Witt
House, Lewiston, and the Tontine
Hotel, Brunswick, Me. Hotel men
meet the world as it comes and goes,
and are not slow in sizing people
and things up for what they are
worth. He says that he has lost a
father and several brothers and sis-
ters from Pulmonary Consumption,
and is 'himself frequently troubled
stomach. When-
cold of this kind he uses Boschee’s
German Syrup, and it cures him
every time. Here is a man who
knows the full danger of lung trou-
bles, and would therefore be most
particular as to the medicine he used.
What is his opinion ? Listen ! “I
use nothing but Bosch ee’s German
Syrup, and have advised, I presume,
more than a hundred different per-
sons to take it. They agree with
me that it is the best cough syrup
in the market.” ®
with colds, and he
often coughs enough
to make him sick at
' ever he has taken a
Hereditary
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, October 4, 1592.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Cohditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
willbe received at this Department Until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS.
(A deposit of dfilO required on account of each
contract.)
SUPPLY OF
Anchors, Chains, &c.; Rope, &c.
Awnings, Sails, &c. ; Steel
Leather Belting, Hose, &c.
Ship Chandlery, Diving Gear
Brooms, Brushes, &c. ; Handles
Engineers’ Stores, Nos. 1 and 2
Carpets, Castings, Chairs
Boats, Clinker and Carvel built
Clocks, &c. ; Ironmongery
Hardwood, Kauri Pine
Oregon and American Redwood
Colonial Pine, Portland Cement
Draftsmen’s and Surveyors’ Instruments
Draftsmen’s Materials, Quarry Tools
India Rubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Plate, Bar Iron, &c.'; Furniture
Oils, Paints, &c.; Plumbers’ Materials
Copper and Lead Pipe, &c.
Wrought-iron Bucket Links
Wrought Scrap-iron Forgings
Wrought Iron manufactured in New Soutli Wales
Stone for Maitland District
Stone for Parramatta District
Window Blinds ; Coal for Sydney
Coal at Lake Macquarie
Coal at Wollongong
Drain Pipes, Metropolitan and Illawarra Districts
Northern District
Western District
Southern District.
CONVEYANCE OF COAL.
Newcastle to Bellinger River
Newcastle to Cape Hawke
Newcastle to Clarence River
Newcastle to. Cook’s River
Newcastle to Camden Haven
Newcastle to Hastings River
Newcastle to Macleay River
Newcastle to Manning River
Newcastle to Myall River
Newcastle to Nambucca River
Newcastle to Richmond River
Newcastle to Tweed River
Wollongong to Moruya
Wollongong to Shoalliaven.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19.
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes and Special Castings,
&c., Dubbo Water Supply
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c., JeriHerie Water
Supply
Supply of about 20,000 tons Cast-iron Pipes,
and Special Castings, to be manufactured in
New South Wales
Bridge, Terrebola Creek, road Goodooga to Bre-
warrina
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
Bridge, Stoney Creek, at Farley, road Maitland
to Wollombi
Bridge, Cuffe’s Creek, road Bourke to Barringun
Bridge, Spring Creek-road, Germanton to Jin-
gellic
Government Notices.
Repairs, Light-keeper’s Cottage, Tacking Point
Port M aeqnarie
Bridge, Kirribee Creek, road Eourke to Hunger-
ford
Construction of Service Reservoir, Moss Yale
Water Supply
Construction of Storage Reservoir, Moss Val«
Water Supply.
Manufacture in tire colony, and supply, & c
Pumping Machinery, Parkes Water Supply ’
Erection of Engine House, and Construction of
Pump Well, Parkes Water Supply
Construction of Service Reservoir, Parkes Water
Supply
Manufacture in the colony, Supply, and Erection
of Pumping Machinery and Engine House
Moss Vale Water Supply
Erection of Stables, &c., Police Barracks, & c
Mudgee '■
Alterations, &0., Post-office, Albury
Erection of Laundry, &c., Hospital for Insane
Gladesville
Erection of New Ward, ditto, ditto
Erection of Pavilions, Benevolent Asylum, Parra-
matta (fresh tenders)
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Goulburn
Stormwater Sewer, Baptist and Phillip Streets to
M‘Evoy Street. Contract No. 1)1, Sydney
Sewerage
Bridge, Tumut River, road Kiandra to Tumber-
umba, at O’Hare’s Crossing
Construction of Tramway from Newtown Bridge
to Cook’s River. Contract No. 2
Sinking an Artesian Bore at Coonamble
Erection of Court and Watch House, Katoomba
Bridge, Git-Git Creek, road Moree, to Mungindie
Additions to Post and Telegraph Office, Bnrrowa
Erection of Station Buildings, Milson’s Point
Railway extension (time extended).
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tooumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
Erection of Police Quarters, Warialda
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Moulamein
Additions, Police Station, Nimitybelje
Repairs, &c., Police Barracks and Lockup, Gul-
gong
Repairs, &0., Court House and Lockup, Braid-
wood
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lismore to Hang-
ing Rock, at Walsh’s Crossing.
Bridge, Sealbrook Creek, road Scone to Mirrewa
Concrete Walls for Bridge, Doughboy Creek,
road Farrago to Braid wood
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales,
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Miscellaneous.
FOR
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,Colours 4 Paints.
WALL PAPERS /Rom 3?rou
p/U
529 George Si>
-— -Brickfield Hill.
SYDNEY CATERING CO.
(LIMITED),
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS
BINING and LUNCHEON ROOMS,
Under the superintendence of a high-class Chef.
MAGNIFICENT BAR.
(Upstairs.)
With BILLIARD ROOM contiguous, containing
Four of the most modern Tallies.
A GREAT REDUCTION.
Weigel’s Journal of Fashion.
w
Subscription :
Yearly .. 47-
Half-yearly .. 2/6
Single Copy .. 6Jd.
Catalogues, containing
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Post Free:
payable
in advance.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPER
PATTERNS of DRESSES,
postal note or postage stamps from the principal offices.
Sydney .. 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway).
Melbourne . 99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Within Forty (40) Miles of Sydney on Western Railway Line.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water B>ig*hts
IsTOW BEADY FOB lITSPECTIpU A IST ID SELECTIOIT.
KT COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY PENRITH TO MULGOA.
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa, or to Sydney Agents,
IXardle & Gorman,, 133 I J itt Street, Sydney.
You don’t see Premier Shiels once a week
in company with anyone.
The 11th inst. will be the 26th anniversary
of the foundering of the s.s. Dandenong,
It has transpired that “Jack” Want,
Q.C., of Sydney, gave over <£loo in aid of the
sufferers by the maritime strike.
Milking as well as shearing is being done
by machinery in Victoria now. But leading local
financiers still conduct their business by hand.
Earl of Windover, they say, will be
Carington’s transmogrification. If the poor thing’s
name were plain Smith it would have to keep a
livery-stable. ■
The Duke of Connaught, who was to
succeed as Indian Commander-)n-Chief, has, it is
cabled 12,000 mile's, “sprained his knee.” This is
tew mutch. It must mean his brains.
Why, at festivities connected with Aus-
tralian scientific conventions, is it customary to
report the attendance of So-and-so, M.D., “and
lady,” instead of “Dr. So-and-so and Mrs. So-
and-so?” Is it considered undesirable to too
closely bind down holiday-making scientists in the
matter c f their feminine appurtenances ?”
The late Captain Standish, the Victorian
Police Commissioner, and King of the Melbourne
Club, enlisted in the-Victorian Police Cadets in
the old golden days under the assumed name of
Sievier (the right name of “Sutton,” the now
much-discussed ex-Melbourne bookmaker). Is
there any relationship? Our impression is that
Standish’s mother was named Sievier. Standish’s
enemies made a lot of this, but, though he left
England under a turf-cloud, it was not so shady—
for those times.
Dibbs is a clumsy actor. The ‘ ‘ dissolu-
tion ” bogey is usually relied on to coerce timid
Oppositionists, and Dibbs waited patiently for a
chance to play his card to save his Cabinet. The
chance long-looked for came while Labour-member
Davis was reeling off some platitudes. “The
Premier,” said he, “may have a promise of a
dissolution in his pocket,” and, rpiiek as lightning,
Dibbs produced some letters from his ministerial
pocket; but notone of them was of the regulation
pattern, and he did not score, though he saved his
Cabinet by dint of lobbyism.
Parkes was horrified at the audacity of his
creature, the Parliamentary Works Committee,
in fee-earning while the vote of no-confidence in
the Government was pending. “Entirely with-
out precedent,” “utterly unconstitutional,”
“awfully avaricious,” is the view which he takes
of their proceedings. The business of the Legis-
lative Assembly was hung up on an invitation by
the leader of the Opposition to censure the
Ministry; the Ministry, the Executive of the
House, suspended all administrative work because
its existence was threatened; but the Works
Committee, true to its guinea-pig character,
solemnly fumbled with the proposals of the
Administration, though it was said to be in articulo
mortis.
Ex-Speaker Young (N.S.W.) asserts that
a year of Protection has disillusionised the electors
of the province, and that a general election will
show a rebound in the direction of Ereetrade.
There has, The Bulletin opines, been a rebound
in the direction of Ereetrade, but that is not
because of a year’s experience of Protection. It
will be in consequence of an alleged Protectionist
Administration having for 12 months imposed
upon the people by pretending that a tariff
which is almost wholly a revenue tariff, is
a protective one. The Ministry declare that
the thing which thus operates, and fails to
operate, is a Protective Tariff. Those who believe
them curse Protection, and every good Freetrader
helps things along, by vowing that this is a
genuine Protective Tariff, because its results are
precisely what they (falsely) alleged the results of a
Protective Tariff would be.
The latest record-maker of the bridge-
agin-my-own-door champions has turned up in the
person of a Gippsland Shire Council ex-President.
This expert, when he wanted anything done for
his own benefit, used to call a meeting of the
council, apparently at a time which suited no one
but himself. Then, when no other member turned
up, he declared himself a quorum, proposed a
resolution, seconded it, put it to the vote, and
declared it carried. He then formed himself into
a large and influential deputation to Premier
Gillies ; got a Government grant for the work he
had in view, and reported the result to himself.
Naturally, he now has a road at his backdoor,
another at his front verandah, and a main road
slap through his property, and is probably, like
Warren Hastings, astonished at his own modera-.
tion. The ex-President is a huge improvement
even upon a certain legal manager who lately in
his private capacity issued a writ against himself
in his official capacity for his own official salary,
got judgment, and proceeded to sell up the com-
pany’s goods and chattels.
“Woman Sainioconvicted Finland murder
husband professor by poison sentenced right hand
severed afterwards beheaded body burnt appealed
Czar.” The above is the probable form of the
cablegram, which, i«*the expert hands of the
telegraphie-aub-editor, expanded into a long yarn,
concluding with “an appeal against this extra-
ordinary sentence has been made to the Czar,”
and with “A Terrible Sentence” for head-line.
The only striking thing about the sentence really
is—-and this, of course, renders it dreadfully re-
volting to a woman —that it is quite old-fashioned.
In the matter of penal sentences, there are recur-
rent tendencies to revert to the methods of our
forefathers. Just at present, for instance, N.S.W.
Minister for Justice O’Connor is preparing, with
the approval of “all to
revive the tortures of the lash, and there is no
saying when it will occur to some of those who set
the fashions in such matters to re-introduce the
thumb-screws and the bpot. The American
colonel who revived the military (and buccaneer-
ing) mode of hanging by the thumbs for a military
offence, was moved by the same spirit of venera-
tion for antiquity as Minister O’Connor.


CLARKE’S PATENT “PYRAMID" & DOUBLE WICK FAIRY LIGHTS
The
Burglar’s Horror,
ŵ
in*
M3N
UGHt
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE PATENT
PLASTER FIRE-PROOF CASE.
For Burning in
Clarke’s “Pyramid” Nursery Lamp.
CAUTION.
TO PREVENT BURGLARIES.—A
“Pyramid ” Night Light should be lighted in the
front and back of every house as soon as it is dark.
Housebreakers have the greatest dread of a light.
The police recommend a “ Pyramid ” Night Light
as the best safe-guard. Almost all the burglaries
perpetrated might have been prevented and much
VALUABLE PROPERTY SAVED, if this
simple and inexpensive plan had always been
adopted. The “Pyramid” Night Lights are
much larger and give DOUBLE THE LIGHT
of the common night lights, and are therefore
particularly adapted for this purpose. Manufac-
tured in Patent Fire-proof Plaster- Oases. No
paraffin or other dangerous material used in their
manufacture.
PATEN!
CLARKES
m
SE
n
i
y
A
ti
7Ti
s
I
>4
Ni:
tfttH
ẁ
exact size op light.
FOR IN AND OUT-DOOR ILLUMINATIONS.
Each Box contains 6 Double-Wick “ FAIRY ” Lights (burn 10 hours each), and Glass for burning in,
CLARKE’S PATENT “FAIRY” LAMPS.
FOR DECORATIVE LIGHTING, BALL AND DRAWING ROOMS, &C.
CLARKE’S
NBWLY DESIGNED
“Pyramid” Nursery Lamp
FOOD WARMER,
With New Registered Pannikin,
INCLUDING
Burglar’s Horror Lamp
BURGLAR'S HORROR LAMP.
□
V;'Vi i
IrfHlt**'
-JHSlHtum V# fM
Hi
TRAD
m
BURGLAR’S HORROR LAMP.
CLARKE’S Improved PANNi SIN
(REGISTERED)
FOB USE WITH
CLARKE'S PYRAMID NURSERY Li i?
By this invention any liquid food can be poured
out or drunk without scum or grease passing
through the spout, and prevents spilling when
poured into a Feeding Bottle, so objectionable
with all other Pannikins. These Pannikins will
fit all the old “Pyramid ” Nursery Lamps, and
can be purchased separately.
N.B.—Ask for CLARKE’S PANNIKIN, and
see that his name and the registered number
(registered 91,241) is on the Pannikin, and Trade
Mark “Pyramid.” Clarke’s Patent PYRAMID
NIGHT LIGHTS are the only Lights st atable
for these Lamps.
SOLD BY ALL THE LEADING RETAIL HOV SES.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: Francis Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st., Melbourne
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as lov
and cooling as his fan.
When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
p take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and origina
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Wolfe’s SCHNAPPS—Soothingand invigorating.
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients
A perfect smoke — Gr NUN Darlings,
Hallo, there ! smoke G N U N Darlings.
At Balmain you can buy GNUN Darlings.
A Salvation Stockman.
(FOR THE BULLRTIN.)
The men were lounging about, at sundown, on
Long Bend station, in the far west of Queensland,
anxiously awaiting the summons of the cook.
“Wonder when Sam will be back?” said one.
Sam had gone South for a spell, and, it was
presumed, would knock his cheque down in the
orthodox fashion; he was now about due, “fly-
blown.” “ What the howling Moses is that
coming?” suddenly exclaimed another.
All looked in the direction the speaker indicated.
A brilliant, meteor-likeobjeot was visible approach-
ing along the road by the river bank.
"Blowed if it ain’t a blooming soldier,” said a
third, as the object approached nearer and
resolved itself into a man on horseback gorgeously
arrayed in scarlet.
“Blessed if it ain’t Sam’s horse,” added a
fourth, as the rider approached the place.
All were silent as the new-comer rode up and
dismounted. It was Sam himself, in the blazing
jersey of the Salvation Army.
“ Hallelujah ! Good day, boys !” he said, as he
dismounted.
There was a wild roar of laughter, for everybody
took it as a mad joke.
It was nothing of the sort, as Sam soon proved
to them. He had been converted, and joined the
Salvation Army in all seriousness. Naturally,
there was a good deal of chaff going, but as Sam
explained to them that the Army did not interdict
fighting, and Sam was known to be the best man
with his hands on the station, it was entirely
good-natured.
The yard was full of cattle, and all hands were
out at daylight to start drafting.
“What the iniquity is this?” exclaimed the
super, as the scarlet apparition approached.
“It’s Sam, he’s a Salvationist,” said one of the
others.
“Good morning, Sam, got back?” said the
super, who was sitting on the cap.
“Good morning, Mr. Hrveey,” returned Sam,
solemnly.
“ Here, confound it, you’re not going into the
yard with that tiling on,” said Hervey, “you’ll
have all the cattle through the fence.”
“Hallelujah !” replied Sam.
“Damn it, man, take it off while you do your
work.”
But this Sam refused to do. Hervey kept his
temper, for Sam had been a long time with him,
and was a rattling good man. At last matters
were compromised by Sam putting a coat on over
the objectionable jersey.
The day was mighty hot, and the poor recruit
lost pounds sweating under the thick jersey and
the coat. But he stuck to it manfully and con-
tinued steadfast in his new faith, although some
of the old Adam would occasionally burst out,
“Sam,” said Hervey, one day; “I want you
to go and spare-chain those sleepers in from the
Ten Mile ; Bill has hurt his foot.”
Sam was a good “ bull-puncher ” and yoked up
and started. That afternoon, Hervey and another
rode down to a creek about half-way. They could
hear Sam’s whip in the distance. They dis-
mounted and kept out of sight.
As Hervey had foreseen, the bullocks, missing
the loud and vehement objurgations of their
regular driver, came leisurely along and at last
stuck up dead in the middle of the creek.
Sam flogged and shouted, but without avail,
a nd the watchers could see that his blood was
gradually getting up. Laying down the whip, he
went off a little bit and had a sort of war-dance,
then came back refreshed. The bullocks were
chewing the cud and had seemingly forgotten all
about the sleepers.
Sam started at them again, but without avail.
At last it was evident that he must do something
or burst. Looking quickly all around, he stripped
off his jersey, picked up the whip, and let out an
oath that nearly burnt the roof of his mouth off.
All the pent-up profanity of weeks followed. In
an instant every bullock straightened himself,
and, with one accord, marched the sleepers out of
the creek as though they had been mere feathers.
Hervey and his companion came from their
hiding-place, but Sam, without deigning them a
look, strode on with his team, leaving his jersey
in the creek, where it lay until it was annexed by
some wandering niggers.
Sara always afterwards affirmed that he would
have stuck to the Army all right, only for the
blanky bullock-driving.
D.
A well-known Adelaide capitalist has pro-
mised ,£IOO towards the election expenses of any
Conservative who will oppose Dr. Coekbnrn at
Mount Barker. The Chief Secretary has offended
the propertied classes by his action with regard to
the N.S.W. police sent to Broken Hill.
Dr. Barrett, of Melbourne, avers that only
125 people have died in Victoria, N.S.W., and
Queensland from snake-bite in 10 years, and that
so far there is no evidence to show the
strychnia injection has any effect on snake-poison.
We shall probably hear Dr. Mueller in reply.
At Kilmore (Vic.) the late Myles Garrett
Byrne once defended a man whose guilt the Crown
proved up to the hilt. Byrne let the evidence
slide and delivered to the jury (all from Tipperary)
an eloquent address on the wrongs of Ireland.
Result : acquittal—and the striking of the jurors’
names off the roll. The jury were asked on what
grounds they had acquitted the accused, rore-
man; “On account of the illoquint defince, yer
Anner!”
It is cabled that the Archbishop of Canter-
bury is getting up a fund to purchase the
Sepulchre of Christ, which was found and identi-
fied by that deceased crank, Gordon, of Khar-
toum. This sounds like a cablegram out of the
Middle Ages. Six hundred years ago all Europe
turned out dressed in iron to capture that
sepulchre, and Palestine was littered with dead
knights and a million crates of “busted” hardware.
The waters of Syria have been chalybeate ever
since because of the broken armour which fell into
them, and nearly everybody manured his vine
with a dead Christian in these days. But they
lost the sepulchre after all, and now, instead of
fighting for it, it is to be captured by public sub-
scription, and run by a syndicate. Possibly the
syndicate will go in for speculating in a few more
sites of interest at the same time. That spot in
the exact centre of the earth out of which
Providence took the dust that Adam was made of
might be acquired cheaply in the present
depressed state of the market, and it would bo a
handy thing to have about the house.
Out of 72,000,000 acres in England,
50,000,000 acres are owned by 15,000 persons;
again, 30,000,000 are owned by 1000 persons. JNo
wonder the landlords need the bayonet to uphold
“ law and order.”
The Yankees, who have of late made
enormous strides in warship-building, have on the
stocks the most formidable craft ever designed
an armoured commerce-destroyer of 20,500 h.p.,
with a speed of 22 knots, and able to steam
20,240 miles without re-coaling. It is reckoned
that six like the Columbia could sweep all com-
merce off the ocean. Nothing afloat could catch
her—or escape her.
The N.S.W. Forest Department has 2000
date-palms ready for planting out in the Western
plains. There are already camels and mirages
there, and it will now only be necessary to intro-
duce a few pure-bred simooms, and send out
Sydney’s street arabs, to transform the points of
the compass, and convert our West into the gor-
geous and glowing East. The puddled dams can
be called oases—it will sound better.
Buokland, the gaudy clown of Maonland
Assembly, has introduced vyhat he calls a
“Washers and Manglers Bill, winch, at latest
advices, was getting on favourably towards its
second reading. It provides that mangier shall
mean any female who undertakes the violent com-
pression of any ‘ wash ’ between rollers at so much
a dozen,” and that the term “ wash includes
Soiled linen of all varieties, articles of apparel, and the
3TAS2S W
„ license shall I» ofpSc wS
a certificate of good character
■is
signed by the S d tl^A 7 d tSG»eS e
s&rszr*: “ f « r
Sder the” offending article to lie wasli. J
Sefe
of lnimouit tiicreis
Sir George Grey thinks Party Govern-
ment has proved a failure in Maoriland. Govern-
ment by Contradiction has become a ‘ tragic’
farce ” everywhere.
A Bananaland shepherd was in the habit
of using up his weekly allowance of flour in
one big damper—partly to save labour, but
mainly to enable him to keep a correct Kobin-
son-Crusoe calendar of the week days. For. the
latter purpose he sectioned out the damper into
“Sunday,” “Monday,” “Tuesday,” &c., for all
the days of the week. One day a traveller, who
called in his absence and saw the damper on his
hut table, cut off three sections — “Wednesday,”
“ Thursday,” and “ Friday.” On the shepherd s
return at night he looked at the last remaining
wedge a moment or two and then said : “ Tophet!
This week has gone quick !”
On an island off the Queensland coast there
is a Chinaman’s sepulchre with a legend attached.
Ten years ago, or more, two Mongols _ hawked
vegetables in an obscure northern township. They
looked exactly the same when they were asleep, as
all Chinamen do, but when awake one was a cheer-
ful though somewhat idiotic Chow with an aspect
of simple happiness spread all over his wooden
countenance, and the other was a saturnine
heathen who, by reason of his settled gloom, was
supposed to be a person of profound wisdom. They
both loved the same servant girl; she was English
and her name was Mariar, and she smiled
on both about equally. Therefore, the demon
of green jealousy entered into the two Asiatics,
and they both supplied that house with cabbagee
for nothing, in the hope of winning the girl’s
exclusive favour. At last she began to show
signs of a preference for the hilarious Chow, and
that miserable vegetable-man, rushing headlong on
destruction, told his countryman of his success.
Next day the saturnine pagan made a certain
communication at the police-station, and a few
hours later the expectant bridegroom was seized
just as he was getting up a choice offering
of spling callot for his sweetheart, and iso-
lated on an adjacent island upon suspicion of
leprosy. A doctor came and inspected him,
and the lost Chinaman was so terrified at the pro-
cess that he promptly hanged himself on an
adjacent tree by his pigtail, leaving behind a fare-
well letter for Mariar, which, being written in
Chinese, was never deciphered. When the
policeman came to release his prisoner—the doctor-
having reported that his only disease was his
bland and idiotic smile, and a certain absence of
mind—he found naught but a strangled heathen on
a tree, so he promptly buried him on the shore and
retired. A few weeks later Mariar married her
saturnine lover, and straightway took to drink
and opium, and now she assaults him regu-
larly with his own bamboo, and wastes his
substance in riotous living, and sues him periodi-
cally for maintenance before an Irish J.P., who
invariably orders him to pay 15s. a week and find
sureties for his good behaviour, and then sends
him to gaol because the sureties are not forth-
coming, and when he is released again Mariar
invariably breaks out in a fresh place. They live
in a hovel near the shore, and the noise of their
conflicts can be heard on still nights’over at the
island, and then the ghost of a dead Mongol sits
upon the beach and smiles an ancient Chinese
smile as he listens to the smashing of the furniture
and the anguished yells of his one-time enemy.


ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well,
Eeel Well—Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
w
ŵ
ẁ
I
m
- ;
The Poets of the Tomb.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
'I he world has had enough of bards who wish that
they were dead,
’Tis time the people passed a law to knock ’em on
the head,
lor ’tvvould be lovely if their friends could grant
the rest they crave—
Those bards of “tears” and “vanished hopes,”
those poets of the grave.
They say that life’s an awful thing and full of
care and gloom,
They talk of peace and restfulness connected with
the tomb.
They say that man is made of dirt, and die, of
course, he must;
But, all the same, a man is made of pretty solid
dust.
There is a thing that they forget, so let it here be
writ,
That some are made of common mud, and some
are made of grit;
Some try to help the world along while others fret
and fume
And wish that they were slumbering in the silence
of the tomb.
Twixt mother’s arms and coffin-gear a man has
work to do !
And if he does his very best he mostly worries
through,
And while there is a wrong to right, and while
the world goes round,
An honest man alive is worth a million under
ground.
And yet, as long as sheoaks sigh and wattle-
blossoms bloom,
The world shall hear the drivel of the poets of the
tomb.
And though the graveyard poets long to vanish
from the scene,
t notice that they mostly wish their resting-place
kept green.
Now were I rotting underground, I do not think
I d care
[f wombats rooted on the ground or if the cows
camped there;
And should I have some feelings left when I have
gone before,
C think a ton of solid stone would hurt my feelings
more, b
Such wormy songs of mouldv jovs can give me no
delight ;
I’ll take ray chances with the world, I’d rather
live and fight.
rho’“ fortune ’’laughs along my track, or wears
her blackest frown,
I’ll try to do the world some good before I tumble
down.
Let’s fight for things that ought to be and try to
make ’em boom;
IVe cannot help mankind when we are ashes in
the tomb.
Sydney, Sepb., ’92.
HENRY LAWSON.
An official press utterance inspired by the
guerilla contingent of N.S. Wales Parlia-
ment ‘ It is absolutely true that friends of Sir
rlenrv Parkes, with his sanction, have approached
»he Premier with the object of bringing about a
rarkes-Dibbs .Coalition Government, in the
interests of the country, and for the purposes of
food legislation.”
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
“Enskied and Sainted”—N.S.W. Railway
Commissioner Eddy.
The Duke of Sutherland, Just deceased,
was the bosom friend of Wales, whom he
“showed round town” more than 20 years ago,
though of late they have not been so “thick.”
Lord Ronald Gower, Sutherland’s brother, visited
Sydney and Melbourne years ago and wrote his
reminiscences.
John Angus M‘Donald, the eccentric
Croydon digger who willed <£7ooo to Croydon
Hospital, with a “first charge ” on the estate of a
shilling a week to his widow, once owned a
Far Northern battery. At the christening
of that battery, the lady who was to have
smashed the bottle of fizz was unable to get
over to the claim by reason of floods. The only
lady present was a larkish girl of polyandric
repute, but, though she was placed in the seat of
honour and treated with gallantry, the engineer
burst the champagne. At the subsequent banquet,
she occupied the left-hand seat of the chairman.
McDonald, replying to the toast of “Mining
Interests,” said There’ll be bad luck come of
this, you see if there don’t. What can yer expect
when the battery’s been a-christened by a man ?
I know that Miss couldn’t get over the
crossing, but there are some decent women in the
camp, sure-ly ! I know of four, anyhow. There’s
Mrs. ■, Mrs. , Mrs. , and Mrs. ;
but I dunno any more. Why wasn’t one of them
four asked?” Then Miss Polyandry whispered
to the chairman, the while she toyed with a
lemonade bottle —“ The old geezer’s drunk ; shall
I stouch him ?” “Have another drink, me gal,”
said the gallant old chairman, passing' her the
brandy bottle.
Dear Bulletin,—ln a southern Maoriland
town the working men some time ago opened a co-
operative store, which has just been the scene of a
tragedy. The institution was originally run
by a manager at £2 10s. a week for 105
hours’ work, but this individual wasn’t suffi-
ciently respectful or something, and dissatisfaction
arose. He had strict instructions to stamp out
the nefarious, credit system, and, being a bull-
headed and enthusiastic individual, he not only
stamped it out among the ordinary customers, but
among the committee-men as well. Also, he
didn’t wear enough boiled-shirt, and wasn’t so
polite to the committee as the committee thought
he should be, and finally, he was thrown out at a
quarter-past eleven on Saturday night, when he
had just finished 16 hours’ work without any
interval for meals. Then anew manager was
advertised for, and presently a widower with
several children was engaged down South and
invited to come 500 miles at his own expense, and
wade in. When he arrived, the 105 hours a week
was fully explained to him, and he was shown a
ton of books which he had to keep, and a lot of
elaborate returns which he had to fill in, and told
how he had to make himself generally useful in
several hundred and fifty different ways. Then
the new manager smiled a faded smile, and went
right away and cut his throat in a boarding-house,
leaving behind him an incoherent note for his
aged parents. Consequently, there is a vacancy
in the store, and any man who feels as if he would
like the job, and who will undertake to be suffi-
ciently respectful to the committee, is invited to
apply at once.—Yours, &c., X.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
in
3!
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
fits
vm
x i
H'
/A
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
apwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back. Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp fax
postage. £
Addrlss;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY'
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
s
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
Mid favourably known as a successful specialist
n all Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address Mrs. G. WOOD, IGS Berkley
3treet, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
The Marvel of the Age!
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cures ‘‘ Barcooßot ’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Fanners
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale:
Australian Drug Co.
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drums. RePevesnoises,Ste-
in the head. Cures Deafness;
Send for book and particu-
lavs. Address the Sole
A^ent; A. M. NASr, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne.
Drapery.
INDISPENSABLE FOR ANY LADY,
TEUFEL’S DIANA BELT.
Infinitely Superior to the Sanitary Towels.
Comfortable & Reliable.
No Discomfort ! No Ghaping ! No Chill !
Sold by
Drapers, Ladies’ Outfitters, and Chemists.
Sole Agent for Australasia (wholesale only)—
F. FI C
9 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY;
314 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles <S& Buim,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
THE AMERICAN STRAW
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. Qd. ss. 83d.
A
&
Ya
33. Gel. & ss. 6d.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE A(
G-, ie-z;. smite: & sonsr,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGS STREET. SYDNEY.
Medical.
DfAPATERSON
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Em,
201
C Macquarie Street North
\ (Opposite Parliament House)
I Sydney.
201
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Yeaes in the study and practice of
QHRONIG, NERVOUS,
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity'and Lock Hospitals.
NVtn '.dical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can he compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex*
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor,sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beeclxam’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bi lions
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E very
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ayes these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAMS PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS testified
continually by members of all classes of society , and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic
Cough
Pills.
As a remedv for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath lightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and . ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcuam s Golgii
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will m a
short time be removed.
Prepared onlv, and sold Wholesale and Retail, b\ the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
Emrland, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
2S Sofd ( by b aU Drhgglsts and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere. . , .
jj.B.—Full directions are given with eac,i box.
Business Announcements.
6EATEFOL —COMFORTING
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Lijfht ami Life,
Are to ue luuiiui iu - .
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY, •
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. §3?“ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious.
& VN
oM<y.
£\lL
X
vVhI
K£
85
w
ŵ
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
u. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and ail Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSB. By Post Ss. Cd.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Young Men, who have lost this most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and suffer
from Private Nervous and Skin Diseases, producing
bashfulness, leant of energy, nervousness, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical
ache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints, pimples,
weak stomach, impure blood, contagious <*£•'
should send for Dr. M. Perry's work
bility. It will describe their case minute y,
and point out, with unerring accuracy, the best
means of rapid and effectual cure, without
MERCURY OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'thu. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship " Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich s
232?*
IVH m &£3 • 5 2T-4 •SS • JRL e 5 <2 o 9
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Invites every investi-
gation as to
iiis
Qualifica-
tions,
Makes a
Speciality
of Private NER-
VOUS & Skin Diseases.
eluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
nractico, for a period of over twenty years, enaoles
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY AND PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in
Dr. Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to
how this most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr Perry supplies his patients with the most
perfect modern Electric Appliances for pains or
weakness in any part of the body. He supplies a
Genuine Electric Belt, from which the current
can be distinctly felt, for £l. Electric Baths for
Consulting Patients.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. t® 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from / to 9 p.m.
op Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address—lsl Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Brice, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
‘ Price Warmag,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Posted
to any English address for Is. lOd. in stamps.
Gusc
xm
D ScdTTIE
ms
Whisky m
sit's;
s Menzies?Gi fSsCOW.
DRINK
•1111
Stour
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent;
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SIDNEY.
Business Announcements.
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 14s. 6<l. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S POEPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for Lie
BOW-M.AN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street- Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address,
THE LOUNGE HAIK-DRESSING CHAIR."
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
Sole Agents:
CR.-A.IGr <sc AITKEH,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 A 683 George Street, Sydney.
SPARKLING
i j£
ft
V
,0 H>
F O R
MOUSTACHE!!
OasDillariao-e;!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. IgJi
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. Cd., Tost Free.
nuiir. A AITKfM Sole Agents,
6SO and CS2 George Street, Brickfield Hiil, SYDNEY.
Ask for
■pia.to s
w
O
AGtN ”5 i
3 Lissa& Phillips,
Bir.-ack St.. Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.


‘ANTICUT A.”
"CiOE Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A. certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties> in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers thromrhout the
colony, or from H. LEICESTER, SO Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.W. for “ Anticuta"
Company.
■"VrOTTCE. —Advertisements for Current Week
JLX cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltb.
Dewar’s iTSTlxlslsy.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents; CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place,
HUDSON BEOTHEES. LIM®
m
«
LTb
- - ■
Clyde Works, Granville,
IN.S.W.
The “CLYDE” K
Male in three sizes, with or without Sieve-gear.
FRAMES OF BEST POLISHED BLACKWOOD.
No better Chaffcutters have ever been made, and with our
Horsegears to match, they form plants impossible to beat.
FOR THE HARVEST SEASON:—
New “Clyde” Damp-weather Strippers,
New “Clyde” Improved Winnowers,
AND
BUCKEYE,'
( Bin tiers,
1 Mowers.
Ensure the rapid and economical handling of any crop.
We Make and Stock every kind of Farm Implement.
NO DUTY. CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
K. A. Herroy, Agent, 144 < lareacc-st, Sydney
/Z/k J
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
sorer Party: “Why didn't von keep t<
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at in - ! I drink ivothinsr else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Mill
Knowles' I’nnips,
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
& c-» &o., &c.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SITEKTEX, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Bock Breakers.
/
TTcstinghoiisc Engines.
I
mil
in
%
IbHi
kF
Wood Burning
COLONIAL
Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING- PRESURE. —80 lbs. psr square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
'Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes,
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street om "i Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
ẁ
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
»
