

$
a
ri*.
m
4*.
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
A ITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PDINCIPAL CLUBS IN STDNET.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st. Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R . G. WATKINS & CO., 107 Kent Street, SydLney,
—FOR—
twining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
lEIXIF LOSIYES, BUILDERS’ & G-E3S"EBAIi IROUMOI^G-EiiT.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
•• FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
ISaBSo
o
2*
m
hi
X 2
o
o
%
&
i&) At&JZ
Dog’s Head
ALE & STOUT.
JULES REWARD Sc CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
•aoxaiajoad
KcmOHX 'H
lHll
j ts
sn.4
7x®
WO
*°
4 .^V
> -
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY. v
THE
FRESH FOOD & ICE-CO.,
135 KING SIREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of DIET
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
7
WHISKY.
WALKER, 24 BOND STREET, SYDNEY
JOHN
tf m
Sole
& C. HOWARD.
Agexxfs xxx KTew Soutli -Wales for Messrs. Clayton and SHuttleworth.
fete
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
m
I
UKCO\-U\Wg-^|
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes ; Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
'RIC LIGHTING
J. &
ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. MT
C. Howard, 2SOi
Fall Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implement* and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
?ol 12 —No. 663.]
[Saturday, October 29, 1892.


PIERCE’S
BELT
Chain
trademark
WEAK IVIEIM.
“I>r. S*ieree*s Calvanlc
Clialn Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and only perfect body
battery now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
parts and restores them to
11eal tli and Vigorous SI rength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best!
Send for Pamphlet No. 2. Wash. H. Soul ACo.
syd
v, and Elliott Bros,, Brisbane, Agents.
““ ELAS. TRUSS CO. San Francisco, U.S.A.
MW
w
EMBROCATION.
ŵ
ẁ
NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
■ Tasmanian Edition—Publishers, ETTZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
MALTO-
QUINIA
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AGUE,
DEBILITY,
INFLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
A <'sire for
WINE.
Wholesale Agents:
LANGE csc THOMSMAN,
M V. I. iS O I SS X E.
MEN
i«Ff
%
HY WILL YOU SUFFER from
DEBILITATING DISEASES which
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN-
HOOD ? You may now cure yourselves
without CONSULTING a DOCTOR.
Send Six Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing- the
French method of QUICK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-CURE.
NERVOUS WASTING and
Address: Parisian Agency Go.. Box 766, Sydney.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS awd INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON’S
De LISSA
and PHILLIPS, SP I %S I
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
o* RKCOROV
t SBtN cE «f . i f t -
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Used tor a quarter of a century with unparalleled
•nd unprecedented success throughout the world.
,S'i o"/ e . Li S e yestores manhood to the most
thattered and debilitated constitutions, regenerating all the
VL'ftj'u’l ,tele ” ,e,,ts "Sltte human frame, and enables man to
tuijil hts most sacred obligations,
l*t cases of 12 s., or four quantities in one /or j6s. Freight
vetra, Paniph lets free on t ece ipt o/sta mped a ddressed envelope
fUelZliuihohrne. lasta - P ‘ rr * & C “- 73 Gertrude Street
Agents for N. S. Wales— VV. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney,
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR. E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Smr MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIES,
Cure CANCER, Ansemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRAHGIPANHE
STEPHANOTIS
YLANG YLA
OPOPANAX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all Dealert, and oj the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Tradt Mark—“ White Hose "on Golden
Lyra, with Address in full.
LABIEB !
OLl>, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Or. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
He treats with great success IRREGULARITIES,
AMENORRHOSA, BARRENNESS, STERILITY, LEU-
CORRHGEA and OTHER TROUBLES incidental to
women. He gives honest advice and the best of
medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
BETTER THAN SOLD.
™ DR. TYSON SANATORIUM.
ST.. EIIDA.
Patients Received for the Treatment of
ẃ
ẅ
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures guaranteed. No pain, discomfort or restriction
Private apartments and attendants if desired Dr.
Tyson’s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case, and is the Only remedy which can be
taken at home with certainty of success. All
bus’ness strictly confidential For terms, etc.,call on
or address—H. E. PEATE, Secy., Cromwell Build-
ings, Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.,
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used
For Consumption use
So * s
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE.
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory;
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
{j\
IP
p
\7
Sosistfs “MM! HUB”Eucalyptus Oil
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUENZA
always keep a bottle of Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil by y ou and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
Tt, is a Germ Killer.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser—a few drops mixed
with water—and steam the apartment. INHALE THE STEAM if there be
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles.
Dr. BRENDON CURGENYEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “ J. Bosisto, Richmond,” are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for
IOOSIS'X'O’JB ■ *3* 33 lE*. XX
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
&
♦
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PRICE Is
In Stamps,
Mi.. M. 8.,
Q ua^'fiec/^
ter e
Re gis
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSpNAL VISIT.
Dr. Kelly’s reputation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, to be appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen’ the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows That the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
of his past folly.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
Am I subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear of Death, Tendency to Suicide'
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Neryous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestio*, Heavy, Sleepy Peeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Gostiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Peeling During the Dav, Pains in the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Byes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, ‘Epilensv Pits
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small PAMPHLET BUT A
LARGE BOOKCONTAININGMANYPAGESopPRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO OURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURB ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
I l GU uT n^eedtoCureanycaseof NERVOUS DEBILITY. This excellent apparatus,
Which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
tvLtLA 3- Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, Ac., Ac., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
r * S' i G ' ivr e F y ’ T'-n' 0 * j a Ije ? all y Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY,
Monday
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday..
ADDRESS-
-9.80 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m;, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
W. H. KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
‘ ZPJL SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
(6
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, G.P.O. Telephone 972.
W. M A MATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Seeds and Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
<Also at London, and ( Edinburgh .
SPOONS & FORKS.
W. M. & Sons have a magnificent selection of
their own manufactured goods always on
view at their Show-rooms, suitable for
SPORTS, PRESENTATIONS,
CLUB, SHIP,
HOTEL and FAMILY USE.
TABLE CUTLERY.
ff. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver,and Electro-plated Coeds and Cutler}
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS:
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
Also at London, Sydney and ( Edinburgh.


Wolfe’s Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
Eeel Well —Take Wolfk’s Schnapps.
Wolfe's Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
Cadbury's cocoa
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fura
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
•A*,, f
5:, ; • •
am
m i
■
¥
m
v<
£N,
S^OBO
a
mm.
&
\
.■57
'•■•.•.•//.vi-c ‘
-
BP
*
i 11
;-v
'
A Lodging-House Idyll.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
* Maeriage-TBAPS, every one of them !’ we fancy
we hear some Australian Major Pendennis saying
to his inexperienced nephew; ‘keep out of lodg-
ing-houses at all hazards.’ But the inexperienced
nephew likes to see the world for himself
‘ The first essential to a union between the
sexes,’once said a famous philosopher, ‘is proxi-
mity ; the second is proximity ; the third is proxi-
mity.’ In a lodging-house, these conditions are
secured as perfectly as on board ship. Jn the
lodging-house, there is the constant propinquity
at table with the landlady’s daughters or feminine
lodgers, there is the quiet conversation in the
sitting-room or verandah, the occasional visit to
the theatre in parties of three or four, and the
periodical carpet-dance when mutual friends are
asked to join in the ‘hop,’amid such hilarity as
may be sustained on thick sandwiches and
“ colonial beer. Given, an average young man
and an average young woman, sitting at the same
table for six consecutive months, with outside
flirtations intervening, and the result may bo
safely predicted.
Perhaps it is because the proprietrix knows
this that so many establishments of the kind are
Avillingly carried on at a pecuniary loss. The
lodging-house may therefore be regarded as serving
an important purpose in the social economy of the
community. Despite all that tire cynics may say,
there is no finer school for gaining an intimate
knowledge of human nature. 1 lore the girl of the
period is seen, if not with her night-cap, at
least with her curl-papers on ; and here masculine
selfishness may be observed in all its varying
gradations.
When young Mr. Blusher first came to Sydney
lie Was but a fledgeling. His duties in the Cir-
cumlocution Ollicc were light; his salary was
small, but sufficient to enable him to dress with
that care which he considered duo to society ; and
his appearance was distinctly that of an ‘ eligible.’
It w’as the wish of his denting mamma that he
should bs placed in some respectable family where
he would have matronly supervision and all the
comforts of a home. Looking over the newspaper
advertisements, Mr. Blusher saw" at once that
there would be no difficulty in finding exactly
what was wanted. The trouble was rather on
account of the embarrassing number of oppor-
tunities. _ Nearly every other advt. that met his
eye promised ‘ all the comforts of a home. ’ In a
great many instances was added ‘ latch-key, piano,
baths,’and he wondered greatly what strong re-
commendation could be supposed to lie in that
triple allurement. The announcement which
eventually riA T eted his attention was contained in
the legend ‘no children, and no other boarder.’
Here was, doubtless, a pleasant little family,
which had a larger house than it could fill, and
wished for the society of an agreeable young man.
The happiest couples are known to sigh sometimes
for variety of conversation. A lodger is a peg to
hang an argument on, or a victim at whom to aim
anew old jokes. And there was a delicacy in the
announcement which especially pleased Mr,
Blusher’s fastidious taste. The name of the
advertiser was not given. The applicant for
permission to enter that select abode must
exchange cards at a well-known shop in George-
street, and submit himself to the chance of
refusal. There were not many refusals of young
men, as Mr. Blusher would have guessed had he
been a few years older.
Mr. Blusher left his name with some little fear
and trembling at the place of business indicated,
and by the evening’s post received a pretty little
scented note, dated Amaranthine House, North,
Shore, informing him that Mrs. Hasheru had a
room at his disposal, and asking him to inspect it
at his convenience. It was also added that if the
lady, of the house were not at home when he
called, Miss Hashem would show him the apart-
ment. The. fact was, Mrs. H., who, on seeing
Mr. Blusher’s card, had promptly possessed her-
self of all necessary information concerning him,
was extremely anxious to secure so eligible a
lodger, and the allusion to Miss H. was one of
those little strokes of diplomacy in which she was
an adept,
Mr. Blusher was very favourably impressed,
ihe advt. had said there were no children ; but
there was a young lady—so much the better.
And he liked the name of the residence, ‘Amaran-
thine House. It sounded pleasant and genial; it
suggested a brightly - polished gate - handle, a
canary twittering in its cage on the verandah, and
the sylph-like form of a young girl standing on
tip-toe in a spirituellc attitude.
In due time, Mr. Blusher somewhat nervously
presented himself at Amaranthine House. It was
not a detached cottage or bungalow, as he had
imagined, but one of a terrace of three which
owed its distinctive name to the fertile resource
of its occupants. Nevertheless, it was a sub-
stantial house, and the rooms seemed to be good
enough. A slatternly maid-of-all-work answered
tiro bell and showed him into the front parlour.
Mr. Blusher had shivered slightly at the sight of
the servant-girl. Nothing is more disillusioning
to a young man in search of a picturesque and
cheerful residence than the immediate obtrusion
on his notice of an untidy abigail. How often a
bright and cheery girl at the door prepossesses
one in favour of the inmates ! Besides, the young
man of the period likes a neat-handed ‘ slavey ’
with whom he may interchange a little chaff
when she is dusting his coat or lighting his fire.
Such thoughts rapidly passed through Mr.
Blusher’s mind as he was ushered into the front
parlour. This room was very showily furnished,
though not exactly in the best taste. There was
a glided mirror and a profusion of ornaments on
the chimney-piece with the tail-feathers of a lyre-
bird springing from the centre. The sofa and
chairs were half enveloped in antimaccassars, the
table was loaded with nic-nacs and a flower-vase
supported by a few gaudily-bound books, including
a huge illustrated family Bible. There were two
or three crude crayon drawings on the wall, the
work of some beginner in the art; and large
photographs of the master and mistress of the
house in their bridal costume. Presently there
was a rustic of feminine attire, and Mrs. Hashem
entered. She was a portly, well-preserved lady of
about 42 summers. Her manner was at once
bland and effusive. She naturally concluded that
Mr. Blusher was at the last ball which was the
talk of the town, was sure he was going to the
dinner-party of the Swellbys, and contrived to
soon convey an impression that she and her
daughter were largely in society. Papa, poor
dear, was a commercial man, but he had in-
different health and did not care for gaiety, so he
rarely accompanied them. It would be so pleasant
to have in the house a young gentleman of tun
like Mr. Blusher. -The fact, as Mr. Blusher dis-
covered a few days later, was that papa was a
commercial man with narrow means, who liked to
smoke his pipe at home and who had a profound
contempt for what his wife called ‘ society,’hut
who dared not say so, being kept in complete sub-
jection by his better half.
Mrs. Hashcm babbled on until she was joined
by the daughter, Miss Geraldine. Twice nine
years had shod their blessings on this fair
one’s head. She was attractively dressed in
a light morning robe. A ribbon encircled her
taper waist and fell in festoons at her
side. While culls set off a pair of shapely
hands, and a plain collar with a neat little
brooch at the point of juncture, held in
affectionate embrace a soft, white neck. The
head which was supported by this slender
pillar was noticeable for its brown, curly hair, a
pair of tender, blue eyes which glanced timorously
at the stranger and then retreated behind their
long lashes, a small, heart-shaped mouth, and a
dimpled chin.
Mrs. Hashem presented the young couple to
each other, in a manner that was outwardly
that of deprecative maternal piide. A shrewd
observer, however, might have read beneath
the stern and comprehensive glaneo of the
general who studies his map while weigh-
ing the chances of a campaign. Mr. Blusher
was quite pleased with the artless simplicity
of the young lady. Ho would have been
more charmed had she talked less about the balls,
parties, and theatres, amid which she seemed fo
pass her life. But she was pleasant to look at,
and friendly. Mr Blusher was at an age at
which male youth is especially susceptible to
feminine charms.
He confessed to himself the influence of the
young enchantress. The terms were agreed upon
with the elder of the two, after the daughter had
retired, without cavil. The sight of the hem of
the young girl’s garment disappearing into the
second room, as he emerged from the parlour to
leave by the street door, did suggest to him that
she had been standing in the passage, and listen-
ing at the key-hole to the terms of the financial
arrangement with mamma, but ho dismissed the
idea at once as a wholly unworthy suspicion.
And so Mr. Blusher took up his abode in his
new home, having a bedroom to himself, and the
privilege of dining and sitting with the family. A
more intimate acquaintance with the house
showed him that nearly all the outlay in furniture
had been lavished on the front parlour. The other
rooms were plainly and barely provided. As ho
approached the kitchen there were distinct evi-
dences of squalor and unclcanlinoss. However,
said he to himself, a great deal may be overlooked
for the sake of the pretty girl. In any case, he
was in no humour to be captious. The family
consisted of the lady and daughter who have
already been described ; two sons at day-school,
aged respectively 14 and 10, and a male cousin of
15 who was to stay with them until his schooling
was over. The advertisement had said “no
children but, then, of course, these were young
men.
There was also the husband. He had so little
influence in the house that we had almost for-
gotten to mention him. He was a good-natured
fellow enough when caught by himself; but in
presence of Mrs. H. he was morose and speech-
less. He had no sympathy with her extravagant
social tastes, licr fondness for going to the theatre
with orders, and her tendency to stint the table to
provide the ways and moans for eliowy life in the
parlour. Sad experience had proved to him that
remonstrance was useless ; so he took refuge in a
grim taciturnity. He never by any chance called
his wife by her Christian name. lie had no
appellation for her at all. When he did speak to
her, which was seldom, he generally prefaced his
observations with a ‘ Look here, will you,’as though
she had been a perfect stranger of inferior degree.
Hie circumstance was all the more remarkable
from the face that Mrs. llashein, wnen relating,any
anecdote or pars of the fami y history in which
her husband appeared as addressing her, invariably
expressed herself in this way : “Lucy, my dear,’'
Alfred said to me, ‘ this will never do, you know ,”
&c. Once or twice it flashed across Mr. Blusher's
mind that this was not the best of all trainings
for a young wife to receive. But Geraldine .was
sad, pensive and sprightly by turns ; and “hang
it,, as he observed to himself one evening, “ such a
face and figure would turn Wilderness Row to
Paradise Terrace, and Vinegar Hill to Mount
Pleasant.”
Mr. Blusher’s first dinner at his new place of
residence was very good ; the attention he re-
ceived from the ladies was flattering ; and by the
time he had sab down to a quiet supper in tin;
evening, he was felicitating himself on his happy
circumstances. The meals, however, deteriorated
rapidly after the second or third day. He
observed that Mrs. Ha-hem had a formula which
was just a little irritating. Often, though there
was rarely any soup, after the meat had been
removed, the servant would bring in a fruit pie,
and the lady at the head of the table would; say
rapidly with a comprehensive glance round:
“ 011 will not have any pie ? Very w ell; take it
away, Jane.” In point of fact, no one had had
t ime to say whether ho or she would venture upon
the dish, before it was whisked off the table, with
the object of being coldly furnished forth at uio
parlour supper in the evening to which some
strangers had been invited. Mrs.. 11. was fond of
introducing the dinner with the remark, in
theatrical parlance, that they w ould begin on the
p-ece de resistance. On one of these occasions- Mr.
Blusher w r as provoked into the tart observation
that he hoped the after-piece would not be a farce.
His untimely wit was received with a scowl by
the landlady, and he saw for a moment a stony
look in the fair Geraldine’s face, which he thought
made her positively plain. Those little incidents,
however, were but as the passing clouds which
temporarily obscure the most beautifu landscape.
To playing duets with the young lady of the
house Mr. Blusher had no objection, but he could
have wished that her mamma would ask him less
often for orders for the theatre. It is a dismal
piece of business that of visiting a large theatre on
a “papery” night. The scanty audience, the
long rows of ladies in the dress-circle with the
proportion of about one gentleman to twelve, and
the pervading smell of cleaned gloves, all proclaim
that it is one of those occasions when the dead*
heads are in full force. Even the actors seem t >
feel the dispiriting influence; the play drags ;
there is a melancholy draughtiness about the
house ; the applause sounds hollow and unnatural;
and there is no hearty enjoyment in the entertain-
ment. Mr. Blusher would have boon less com-
plaisant in this matter than he was, only when ho
first demurred to performing this duty Geraldine
said, in a very natural tone of voice: “Never


Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps —Take no other.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
In Pitt-street you can buy G N IJ N Darlings
In Park-street you can buy 6 N U N Darling
lii G-eorgc-otreet you can buy 6NUN Darlings
Life without GNUN Darlings would bo a
dreary march.
*
Rich and poor smoke Gr N U N Darlings.
Great and small smoke G N U N Darlings.
Fancy ! GX U N Darlings threepence each.
Pro bono public >. GN U N Darlings.
ŵ
mind, mamma, if Mr. Blusher cannot manage it,
yon know Mr. Jones is always ready to got us
•orders. 1 The Hashems wore acquainted with
Mr. Jones, who once lived in the house. Mr.
Jones was the last person in the world to trouble
himself about anything on their behalf, but Mr.
Blusher did not know that, and the ruse always
took. Whenever he showed signs of remissness,
t his holding of Jones in terror cm always brought
him to book.
In course of time Mr. Blusher also found it
somewhat of a boro to have to make himself
agreeable to all the visitors of his friends, and to
be .obliged against his will to assist Miss Geraldine
in her infantile flirtations with some of them. On
these occasions she was studiously distant to him,
but the entente cordiale was generally resumed
next day, though sometimes with signs of linger-
ing irritation on Mr. Blusher’s part. The playing
of the “Blue Danube ’ waltz, arranged as
a duct in such a way that the hands of the
two performers must cross, and necessarily
touch in crossing, would effectually remove
the smart. It was on the occasion of one
of these little musical exercises that Mr.
Blusher was betrayed into an indiscretion which
he afterwards regretted. He had taken more
than his usual quantity of wine that day, so, in-
spirited by the alcohol, and further encouraged by
a slight pressure from the hand of Miss Geraldine,
he suddenly lowered his head and imprinted a
crushing kiss on her ripe lips. Had, he fired a
pistol in her car, ho could not have been more
startled at the result. The young lady jumped
from her seat as though she had been shot, ran to
a neighbouring ottoman, and, burying her face in
her hands, wept as though her heart would break,
Mr. Blusher’s awkward attempts at apology were
indignantly repelled. Never, she exclaimed, as
soon as her sobs would allow her to speak, had
she been so insulted before. Pardon was out of
the question, and if papa only knew, it would be
impossible for Mr. Blusher to remain another hour
in the place. The young man was truly grieved,
and begged forgiveness in a most pathetic way.
At last Miss Geraldine dried her tears, and pro-
mised to say nothing about the matter, but, at the
same time, she felt constrained to tell him that ho
had wrecked her happiness, and that she could
never be the same girl again.
It was early in the evening when this untoward
event occurred. It had made Mr. Blusher feel
truly miserable. In the first place, he had never
thought that a friendly attention of the kind would
have occasioned the young lady distress; and, in
the second place, she had created a sort of halting
feeling in his mind that he had committed himself
in a manner which left him only one honourable
way out of the difficulty—that of making a formal
offer of marriage. When Mr. Blusher entered
that house, nothing was further from his thoughts
than a conjugal union with anyone. Ho was
but 23 years of age ; his income from the cireum-
locution office was only .£l5O per annum, and he
nad no expectations. Apart from having no desire
to “ settle ” just now, marriage with him, for
commercial reasons, was quite out of the question.
But he appeared to have deeply wounded the
girl’s feelings, and the thought of that occasioned
dim genuine concern. When he left the house for
El stroll to think the matter quietly over by him-
self, he was in no enviable state of mind. He was
sormented with the thought of the unhappy girl
jobbing on her mamma’s bosom, or weeping
silently and alone in the darkened recess of her
3wn room.
There is nothing like a “weed” to soothe the
agitation of perplexing thoughts. Mr. Blusher
had forgotten his cigar-case. He would return to
Amaranthine House, steal through the passage
unobserved upstairs to his room, possess himself
of the useful allayer of nervous perturbation, and
resume his promenade within the sound of the
gently lapping waves. Mr, Blusher was at the
house door and about to enter with his latch-key
when the sounds of light laughter directed his
attention to the front parlori' - . Ho could not
refrain from looking through the Venetian blinds
of the window. A friend of the family had arrived
with two midshipmen from a merchant vessel
lying at Circular Quay. Geraldine was sitting
down at table with them, and a x’ound game at
cards had just begun. No one who had soon
her live minutes before in the depths of well-
simulated grief and injured modesty would have
believed it was the same girl, so great was the
transformation. She was radiant with smiles, the
peal of merrv laughter which attracted Mr.
Blusher’s attention to the window had just
ascended from her lips, and she was evidently in
the brightest mood for enjoyment. There was no
trace of pain upon her face—all was happiness,
Mr. Blusher was petrified. His first feeling was
that of surprise, not altogether untinged with
annoyance. Then ho heaved a sigh of relief, as
though a load had boon taken off his mind. “ I
was mistaken,” ho said to himself. “I have
caused no pain ; I have inflicted no injury. I have
incurred no moral obligation—thank God ! I am
free ! ” The young man possessed himself of bis
cigars, and returned to the shore a changed being,
His‘bosom’s lord sat lightly on its throne; Ids
step was light; his carriage was erect and easy ;
and young Sparks, a casual acquaintance whom
he met enjoying the evening sea-breeze, after-
wards remarked that ho never know Blusher to
be so sunny-natured and entertaining,
Blusher did not meet Geraldine again till the
following day, when she was pensive and shy, and
looked at him reproachfully with a saddened air.
There was an additional alertness in the demean-
our of Mrs. Hashcm, and a look of mild triumph
might bo detected lurking in her eye. In (ho
evening the young man and the maiden were
alone together in the parlour. Mr. Blusher was
at his ease. “It is diamond cut diamond, now,”
ho said to himself. Geraldine looked troubled,
and had the appearance of one suffering inwardly,
At length she began, in a voice slightly tremulous
with emotion :
“Of course, Mr. Blusher, there is a great dis-
parity in our positions, and papa is a poor man,
you know ; but I have been speaking w ith mamma,
and she has really taken quite a liking to you, so
that I think if—that is—l can count on over-
coming any difficulty you may anticipate on the
part of my family.”
“ I am afraid there is some misapprehension,”
responded Mr. Blusher - . “I do not contemplate
any ne w arrangement. My agreement with Mrs.
Hashcm has been carried out satisfactorily so far,
I believe.”
. “Then you mean to say,” observed Geraldine,
reddening, “ that your attentions to me last night
were not intended to be accepted in the light of a
proposal.”
“Nothing was further from my thoughts,”
calmly replied Mr. Blusher. “I have already
expressed my regret for having been betrayed into
an act of ungentlemanly presumption, and I am
quite willing to apologise again ; but I pretest that
you have no j ight t o attribute to me motives
which Ido not entertain. Let ns be friends as
before, and all will be well.”
“ But all will not bo well,” suddenly chimed in
a third voice. It was that of Mrs. Hasheni, who
had heard every word of the dialogue from behind
a flowered screen in one corner of the room. ‘‘ I
will have you to understand,” continued the now
irate lady, “ that you cannot trifle with my
daughter’s feelings with impunity. If you do not
do what is right by her, thcits are the law courts
to appeal to. The Minister at the head of your
department is also an old friend of mhif ”
Mr. Blusher was taken aback. This sudden
opening of a masked battery oh him almost bereft
him of his senses. He begged for time to consider
his position, and respectfully assured Mrs. Hashem
that he was incapable of doing anything that he
could not justify.
“ Then you justify making love to an innocent
young girl in the absence of her natural protector,”
said Mrs. Hashem, in a high recitative, “ and
taking a gross liberty with her. lam sure Mr.
Hashem never dared to think of kissing mo till
after wc were married. ’ ’
Mr. Blusher thought that if the lady had re-
ceived no such attentions until after marriage,
her knowledge of them must be small, but ho did
not say so. Deprecating the use of harsh words,
he called for a truce, promising that ho would
resume the conversation with Mrs. Hashem next
day, when they would all be in a calmer frame of
mind. In truth, the position was not only i:rita-
ting, but serious. The soft-headed British jury-
man is proverbially soft-hearted when a pretty
girl is the plaintiff, and Mr. Blusher already had
visions of the local .Serjeant Buzfuz thundering
against him in presence of twelve good men and
true. Quito undecided in his own mind as to
what ho would do, he determined on the following
morning to consult Mr. Jones, with whom he was
slightly acquainted, and who, as wc have already
seen, had once lived with the family.
Jones was a bluff, hearty man of the world, and
took in. the whole situation at once. “ Oh, you’re
with the Hashems, are you?” said he. “ Trying
to hood yo, eh? They had a shot at me, and Tom
Jilter as well. I admired their enterprise, but
hang me if I can understand what they want to
meddle with you for. You haven’t a cent in the
world, have you ?”
Mr. Blusher admitted that when his weekly
washing-bill was paid he would not have so much
as that small coin left.
“ I have it,” suddenly shouted Jones. “ This is
glorious! You are Arthur Blusher, and they
mistake you for cousin Algernon Blusher, who, as
you know, is the adopted heir of LuUockybong.
This comes of putting only your initial on your
card instead of tho Christian name in full. I will
see Mother Trapem and set everything right for
you.”
Jones was as good as his word. He called on
Mrs. Hashem. What passed need not be related.
Suffice ic to say that Mr. Blusher was never again
taken to task in regard to his attentions to Miss
Geraldine, and that both that lady and her
mamma treated him ever afterwards with studied
coldness, not to say indifference. But he pined
under these altered conditions. He could no
longer reconcile himself to a house the joy of
which had flown. He made up his mind to move
a few days after the occurrence of this disillu-
sionary episode, and he determined that his next
experiment in the house of the stranger should bo
where there were other lodgers to keep him in
countenance.
Whiteman and Madame Midas had one.
child —a boy.
“ Good company over a pipe,” was Car-
lyle’s opinion of Tennyson.
The potentate’s fortune was a million
sterling. The rascally printer made it “a milliy.,
stealing. ”
Melbourne Congregational Union com-
plains that the telephone has been laid on to a local
house of ill-fame.
Rev. Potter, in a Melbourne-published
poem, declares how Tennyson writes “grandlier’
and “ finelier ” than any other.
No less than 2.1 nymphs of the pavement
were before Sydney Central Police Court, on t>
recent day, principally charged with “loiterum. ”
Write no long inscription on a marble tomb:
Only a simple head-cross, with these words alone—
“ He dared not, therefore failed.”
So let the record of a coward’s heart, so set forth, so be
veiled.
Let no man weep for me, rather rejoice
That one, whose will was weak, encumbers earth no more
Ood made the world for those who dare be strong ;
So let the weak decay,—Anon.
Mr. Macartney, of Waverley Station,
Broadsound (Q.), lias just received information
that a man on Auvergne Station, Victoria R,,
Gulf of Carpentaria, in which lie is interested’
has been killed by the blacks. This will be no
new sensation to Mr. Macartney, who has been on
Waverley since about 1861, when the station was
first stocked, and when it was just about as
“bad ” with blacks as any run in Australia has
ever been. Waverley extends from the Broad-
sound Range to the sea, and consists largely of
marine plains, intersected by salt-water creeks
with pipe-elay banks. The blacks used to play
the very mischief there in the early sixties, and
when the native troopers went after them,
generally escaped by swimming these creeks. The
pipeclay was so boggy that the troopers’
horses could only follow into the water with
difficulty, and the detachment used to return to the
head station snow-white—horses, equipments,
blackfellows and all. One of Macartney’s stock-
men once came on a nigger in the middle of one
of the plains, and hunted him with his stockwhip
going till the poor devil managed to plunge into a
reedy swamp with his carcase seamed with cuts
that a sabre might have made. This is the same
Macartney who was once found by a visiting
squatter docking the tails of a lot of colts, and,
being asked what he was about, replied “Making
five-pound notes.” Docking does give a ribbed-
home, cobby look to even a lanky sort of weed. By
the way, Macartney’s father is the venerable Dean
of Melbourne, now 93 years of age, a son of Sit
John Macartney, Bart., who w r as a member of the
last Irish House of Commons, and, to his credit,
an unflinching opponent of the Act of Union when
money bribes and titles were being showered on
any member who would vote for the Union.


it
m
?//
s
-
%
i
>//$
m
Skin Diseases
Whether itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply or
blotchy, whether of the skin, scalp or blood, whether simple,
scrofulous or hereditary, are now speedily, permanently and
economically cured by the C2ii.tieil.Fa* Remedies when
the best physicians and all other remedies fail. The almost
miraculous cures daily effected by them prove this. No state-
ment is made regarding them not warranted by the strongest
evidence. They are absolutely pure, and agreeable to the
most refined and sensitive. They may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with gratifying and unfailing
success. They have friends in every quarter of the civilised
world. People in every walk of life believe in them, use them,
and recommend them. In a word, they are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers and humor remedies of modern times,
GITKIRI
The Great Skin Cure, instantly allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits rest and sleep, soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, clears the skin and scalp of
crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap,
the only Medicated Toilet Soap, is indispensable in cleansing
diseased surfaces and for purifying and beautifying the skin,
Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier,
and greatest of Humor Remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the
cause. Hence, the Outicura Remedies cure every
humor, from the simplest facial blemish to the worst case of
scrofula, and daily effect more great cures of torturing and
disfiguring diseases of skin, scalp and blood, than all other
skin and blood remedies combined. Are not such remedies
worthy of at least a single trial'? Sale greater than the com-
bined sales of all other blood and skin remedies.
“ All About the Blood, Skin, Scalp and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations and 100 Testimonials, a
hook of priceless value to every sufferer, is wrapped about every bottle of the GUTICURA RESOLVENT. CL lICURA
REMEDIES are sold throughout the world. Price, GUTICURA, the Great Skin Cure, oOc. ; CPI 1C IRA SOAP, an ex-
quisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; GUTICURA RESOLVENT, the greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies,
11.00. Prepared by POTTER DRUG and CHEMICAL CORPORATION, BOSTON, U.S.A.
Red, Rough & Oily Skin, Pimples,
Simple humors and blemishes of infants and children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beauti-
fiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy
surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap and the only preven-
tive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of most complexional disfigurations. Sale greater than the combined
of all other skin and complexion soaps.


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
85 PITT SYDNEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,000
LAEG-E BOEsTTJSES
AND
TJCtTIDOTJBTIBID SECURITY,
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary.
STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES,
Russian
Brand.
w
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
ManA'JEK for Aistralia -T. J. M:ac Willi am, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Baas’ Pale Ale
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
Gi-viiiiiieaa’ Extra. Stout
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tS" Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
WILLIAMSON -
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
BOROUaH OB RE3DFER 3XT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &c,
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
Plum *
IJtU pl
Plum
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price - S i n « le R azor > } n strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is extr
a5S»= CRAIG & AITKEN,~6BO Geoige Street, SYDNEY.
Perariau dfc 00.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc.. Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDKTiEY.
Cleavepb
Javenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NE^ r SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDIIEfM, GOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
D
R. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and la of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F. 1.0., P.C S.
BAKER and ROUSE,
MANUFACTURERS and MERCHANTS IN PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
375 aBORGE STREET, SYDKrEir (next A.J.S. Bank),
AND AT—
-250 COLLINS STREET ... ... ... MELBOURNE,
C 9 RUNDLE STREET ... ... ... ADELAIDE.
46 QUEEN STREET ... ... ... BRISBANE.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
Wild. Australia! "Wild QxieeM.sla.MLca.!
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland”
—BY
-A.. M E S T O HXT.
ILLUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer, called the “ Terrible Rite.”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia.
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia—Hunting, Fighting
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “Boorool” (Bora) ceremonies.
ew The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century !
I Will (Appear in Brisbane, Sydney, (Melbourne, (Adelaide, (Tasmania, and
TINT NTOVEMIBEIR.
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD !
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAYWELIT“& CO.
(MARVEL)
\T O B A C CO J
X ''^£fofiCE
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in the Building.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on thk PREMISES
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Llegan
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention W
visitors. f3T Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day. Special Batts for Families.
AARONS' EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - . Proprietors.
VV. W, AIKKN, Manager (IS years in the establishment).
m
■
m


The Bulletin
Vob 12-d No. 663.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1892.
Price, 6d,
THAT FUNDED STOCK.
MICAWEER DIRRS: “And just think of the ‘moral effect’ on the old cove yonder with Ins pockets buttoned up! My word, the Soudan Contingent
plant was nothing to it? "


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians,”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales,
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... El 0 0
Half-yearly 01:2 6
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with u'hom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Arts'
Italian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 toords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But tve desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid, There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Tj^^vlleZvri.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1892.
Shiels & Co., Bankers, &c.
So far, despite the pressure brought to bear
upon it by the Victorian people, the Shiels
Government has successfully dodged the respon-
sibility of bringing the accused land-boomers of
Melbourne to trial. The “Davies Companies”
—that half-dozen or so of disreputable bubbles
which lived on the reputation of the ex-Speaker,
the Land Credit Bank, the Real Estate ditto,
and the infamous Mercantile are every day
supplying fresh revelations, and each revela-
tion is more unsavoury than the last. Most of
them were built partly on falsehood and partly
on bushranging and plain, unvarnished pocket-
picking ; among them they included nearly
every variety of gentlemanly fraud which a
respectable man of business could perpetrate
with a reasonable chance of keeping out of
gaol ; and, taken all together, they have made
the name of Australia a bye-word and a dis-
grace. There is, in the whole crowd, hardly a
single redeeming feature. In all Australia
there is not one widow or orphan, one dotard
or cripple, or old, blind woman, whose savings
these companies neglected to rake in con-
scientiously when the opportunity presented
itself. Their claws reached out in all direc-
tions to grab from infants, idiots and Chinamen,
from old men and dying consumptives, to scoop
in the scanty savings of servant girls and toil-
worn labourers, and to misappropriate the sub-
stance of everybody who could be deluded by
garbled accounts and lying balance - sheets.
And now that the stupendous swindle is exposed
the principal anxiety of the State is apparently
to protect the authors of all this misery from
criticism and to see that no offensive share-
holder comes between the wind and their
nobility.
* * »
It is the fashion among the Victorian press to
regard the Shiels Cabinet as a weak, boneless,
spineless organisation which all parties can
kick with impunity. Yet in reality it would
seem that the present Government is one of the
strongest which has held office in Victoria for
many years. It stands straight up with a load
of disgrace upon its head which would have
long since crushed a weak Administration to
the dust. It habitually shakes hands with a
dozen more or less discredited bank directors,
and still doesn’t die. It refuses to put on their
trial a crowd of financiers whose glaring mis-
deeds have been proclaimed in every newspaper
in the land, and who have never dared to vin-
dicate their characters by prosecuting even one
of their traducers : it openly blocks the course
of j hs i ice despite about the strongest prhtm
facie evidence that was ever adduced against
any assemblage of speculators ; and it survives
all this. The position it occupies looks very
like that of the man who “buttons” for a
three-card sharper, or a “ chucker-out ” in a
gambling hell. A weak Government would
long since have thrown the boomers to the
wolves and so got rid of a pressing danger, but
only a strong Government—or an exceedingly
reckless one—could afford to associate with
these individuals, and thereby run the risk
of being mistaken for their accomplice. For
when a Cabinet goes out of its way to pro-
tect those whom all the nation execrates—and
apparently execrates with good cause—the
public is certain to suspect either that it does
so from corrupt reasons—in other words, that it
has been bought with hard cash or its equiva-
lent; or else that it is itself involved in the
great land-boom swindle and dare not move for
fear of exposure. The Cabinet which doesn’t
die of such suspicions as these may be suffi-
ciently unprincipled, but at all events it is not
so weak as it looks.
* * *
The Shiels Ministry makes no attempt to
disguise its position which is, briefly, that it
will have no hand in bringing any wealthy
suspect to justice if such a thing can possibly
be avoided. A few days ago it was called upon
by a ruined shareholder to institute proceedings
against the directors of an institution which
recently broke up under peculiarly suspicious
circumstances. The case, as abundantly proved
during the liquidation proceedings, was that the
balance-sheets were a glaring lie, that the
alleged profits were non-existent, that the
dividends were not earned but paid out of
deposits, and that at the time when the
management falsely represented the company
to be prosperous, and congratulated the share-
holders on its success, it was utterly insolvent.
As the directors had signed the whole series of
fabricated balance-sheets it was demanded that
they should be put on trial upon the evidence
of their own autographs and their own speeches.
And in reply Premier Shiels announced that
he would not move in the matter unless legal
evidence was forthcoming that the managers
had published the balance-sheet complained of,
that the said document was false in some dis-
tinct particular, and that they were aware of
its falsity. The brutal cynicism of that reply
hardly requires comment. Either the manage-
ment published the balance-sheet, or else it
published itself, but as the management did not
repudiate it afterwards it may be fairly assumed
that the amazing document did not publish
itself. It was obviously false inasmuch as it
declared the company to have abundant assets,
and the company straightway burst with prac-
tically no assets at all. And as the managers
of the institution had attested the false balance-
sheet and thereby made themselves responsible
for its contents, it was for them to disprove the
testimony which they had already furnished in
abundance against themselves.
• # w
The demand for “ legal evidence ” in such a
case was, as Shiels or any other lawyer must
be well aware, asking the impossible. Legal
evidence can only be adduced against any
person after his arrest by means of sworn wit-
nesses, and the announcement that such evi-
dence must be forthcoming before any arrest is
made is equivalent to saying that the accused
must be tried and found guilty before the case
begins. The State never travels on this doc-
trine when any common, uninfluential “sus-
pect ” is concerned. When a murder or a
burglary is committed it seizes somebody
on a reasonable suspicion and finds the
legal evidence afterwards to the best of
its ability. If it declined to arrest the
homicide until the “ legal evidence ” was
forthcoming, then the after trial would be
altogether unnecessary; he would be proved
guilty first, then he would be captured by the
police, and after that he would be hanged as
soon as convenient. Under such conditions
nobody ever would be hanged. Premier Shiels’
dictum, as regards the bank - wreckers of
Victoria, may be condensed into a sentence:
They must be convicted by absolute legal
evidence befoi’e the Law Department will order
their arrest; they can’t by any possible process
be convicted until after their arrest unless the
State gives the shareholders power to empanel
a jury and take evidence on oath, and act as a
court of law generally ; therefore, the State is
waiting for the impossible, and when the impos-
sible comes about it will do its duty in the
matter without fear or favour. To all intents
and purposes the Cabinet might as well
announce that it will take proceedings as soon
as perdition becomes cold and Time begins to
walk backwards.
• • *
The Shiels Government apparently rather
enjoys the position than otherwise, and takes a
certain pleasure in setting decency at defiance.
It still includes among its leading members one
of the directors of the defunct Mercantile Bank
—an institution which seems to call for as much
enquiry as any of the other land-boom com-
panies ; the same director who delivered a
master-piece of artistic misrepresentation to the
shareholders of that unhappy company just when
its condition was hopeless, and who was after-
wards compelled to retire from his position as
liquidator, apparently because of a unanimous
opinion that he was unfit for the post. There
is no reason to believe that there was any trace
or semblance of actual dishonesty in Graham
Berry’s dealings with the Mercantile Bank,
but still he was a member of a particularly
shady directorate, and now he is a member of
the Cabinet which whitewashes him and his
former colleagues, and is one of the jury which
acquits them and himself without a trial.
Another ex-land boomer, an avowed friend of
Matthew Davies and the same man who roars
himself hoarse in defence of that fallen personage
at public meetings, occupies the Speaker’s chair,
and attempts to smother Parliamentary criticism
on his friends and their doings. Apparently
the Shiels Cabinet approves of this fatted
autocrat and his methods ; at all events it takes
no steps to shift him from his position, or to
prevent him whirling his official robes and wig
in the polluted atmosphere as an advertisement
for the Davies elan. A fallen and execrated
banker, against whom charges of crookedness
are thick, is Agent-General for the province ; he
has been invited, in soft, low tones, to return
to Victoria and explain matters, but he hasn’t
come, and, so far, there are no definite signs of
his coming, and apparently the Shiels Cabinet
has no desire to put any pressure upon him. A
Government, like an individual, is known by
its friends. Bent is the friend of the Shiels
Cabinet, and Matthew Davies is the friend of
Bent, and the Shiels Administration is the
friend of Davies at second hand, and the friend
of Munro and Berry at first hand, and the
bank-boomers form a happy family.
* # #
The resolution—recently announced by cable-
gram —of the London shareholders to prosecute
the directors of the Mercantile Bank was prac-
tically a foregone conclusion. The Shiels
Government could not possibly save its friends
from prosecution, and, as a gathering of pre-
sumably sane men, it was doubtless aware of
the fact. What it craved, apparently, was
only the gratuitous disgrace of having blocked
the course of justice as long as it could, and
of having no personal share in placing any well-
connected personage on his trial. Whether
the accused boomers are convicted or
acquitted, the result would have been the same
if the State had instituted the proceedings
instead of leaving the work to private hands,
therefore the Cabinet gets nothing but the
obloquy, and it gets that in abundance. It
has chosen to be a maityr in the sacred cause
of the fraudulent bank and the disgraced land-
boomer, and when it is buried at next general
election, its epitaph will read that it died in
defence of the bloated man in the big white
waistcoat.
Theology in State Schools.
A letter recently written to the press by New
South Wales ex-Minister of Education Car-
ruthers raises the old question as to the
teaching of religion in the State Schools. The
clergy are not content that the State shall
provide the secular education which all recog-
nise as necessary for the proper performance of
the duties of life; they insist upon the teaching
in State Schools of religion and theology. They
are not satisfied that the State funds shall be
made use of to give children a fair start in life’s
battle ; they seek to divert the State revenue
to the promotion and inculcation of certain
special doctrines and superstitions. The R.O.
Church is only consistent with her own prin-
ciples in making the demand for public money
to be given to her schools to be devoted to the
maintenance and extension of the cause of the
Church. Such a demand, however, must be
resisted, because it would be an extension of
the pernicious principle of the State endowment
of theology in New South Wales. We say, an
extension of this principle, because we contend
that there is, in New South Wales, a practical
endowment of orthodox Protestant theology.
While this is so, the Roman Catholics have a
certain amount of justification in the complaints
that they make and a logical basis for their
most extravagant demands. But there is much
greater justification for the complaints of those
who do not believe at all in the State endow-
ment of religion and theology. The plain fact
is that the Baptists, Congregationalists, Wes-
leyans, Presbyterians, and others, while pro-
fessedly opposed to a State Church and to the
special endowment of a particular form of
faith, give their countenance and support to a
system of State education whereby theology is
virtually established as a State institution,
whereby the public-school teachers are really
State officials empowered to instruct the chil-
dren in certain features of popular belief, and
whereby the clergy of the various churches, or
their subordinates, are allowed to enter the
school buildings, upset the order of secular
studies, and promulgate those doctrines and
dogmas which are characteristic of orthodox
Protestant Christianity. We repeat, there-
fore, that there is a State endowment of ortho-
dox theology in New South Wales. The power
of priestcraft has got a firm hold upon that
system by which the children are to be educated
and fitted for the proper performance of life’s
duties.
# • •
The New South Wales State educational
system has, undoubtedly, many most admirable
features ; but in some respects it is anomalous
and absurd. It is a compromise between the
modern spirit of true liberty and the old spirit
of clerical assumption and priestly intolerance.
There is not even one uniform set of class-books ;
some of the schools, more particularly nominated
by the clerical element, prominently use a book
in which are taught the doctrines of the god-
head of Christ, his substitutionary sacrifice
upon the cross, the necessity for salvation
through his death, the final destruction of the
universe, the day of judgment, and the eternal
hell. This is part and parcel of the ordinary
school work ; besides which, special facilities
are given to the Protestant priesthood to enter
the school-buildings and give instruction that
may be more definite still. In view of all this,
can it be denied that there is a State endow-
ment of theology in New South Wales ?
* * «
Priestcraft has got a- hard grip upon the
public schools ; and the system of education has
to suffer in consequence. And yet this system
is supported by many among the various de-
nominations which profess not to believe in the
State endowment of religion at all. We can
respect the Roman Catholics for being logical
and consistent in their demands, even while we
strenuously resist the granting of those
demands ; but we cannot feel much respect for
those who pretend to be opposed to the con-
nection of Church and State, who profess to be
antagonistic to the national endowment of any
theological system, and yet are the supporters
and advocates of a system of education which
creates an established form of theology in the
province, which makes the State-school teacher
an official representative of orthodox Chris-
tianity, and which devotes the national revenue
to the promulgation of a definite creed.
# * *
Surely the day cannot be very far distant
when New South Wales will refuse any longer
to subsidise any dogma or superstition, when
ilh) Stale-officials in the schools will leach the
ordinary subjects of a secular education, and
when the revenue will not be devoted to sup-
porting the arrogant demands of a priesthood,
either Romish or Protestant. Towards this
result, all those should work who believe in the
absolute separation of Church and State, and
in the principle that the State should not
undertake to teach religion, its policy being to
let the fittest creed survive.
* * #
True, the opposite principle has been power-
ful in the past. It was thought to be the duty
of the State to teach religion to the people, to
provide for the salvation of their souls, and
even to see that they attended church regu-
larly. That was the principle that ruled all
through the Dark Ages, That was the
principle which founded the Inquisition,
invented the thumb-screw and the rack, and
lit the martyr-fires in many lands. That
was the principle which led to many a fierce
and desperate war, which drenched the soil of
Europe, Asia and America with the blood of its
victims, and which has promoted all kinds of
religious enmity and bitterest persecution.
That is the principle that maintains the Estab-
lished Churches in England and Scotland. That
is the principle that converts the New South
Wales public schools into theological seminaries,
and devotes the revenue of the country to sup-
porting the demands of the Protestant clergy.
The logical alternative is to carry out the prin-
ciple of the entire separation of Church and
State, and to decide' that theology shall no
longer be taught by State officials or be sup-
ported by State funds.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bent Again.
Thomas Bent, Speaker of the Victorian Assem-
bly, has been showing his hand more than ever
at a civic luncheon. The fury of Bent was on
this occasion directed against all newspapers,
but especially the Argus, which “try to dis-
honour some of the leading men in Melbourne
and to run down institutions with which they
are connected.” Such conduct, in the opinion
of Bent, is “ disloyal,” “ disgraceful,” and
entirely disgusting. The Argus, he said—and
with a good deal of truth—did its level best to
push the land-boom along in the piping times
that are no more, and yet “ it was the first to
cry stinking fish.” “It had lauded and magni-
fied the very men ” —here Bent became biblical
—“of whom it now said ‘Crucify them!
Crucify them !’ ” And because the Tory organ
couldn’t, or wouldn’t, see in the first instance
that the land-boom was an evil thing, and
didn’t know that its authors ought to have been
crucified for the sake of their country several
years ago, it has no business to be ordinarily
honest or rational ever again ! Unless Bent
wishes to insinuate that the Argus knew all
along of the financial jugglery and reckless
fiddling with public money that has recently
come to light, there is no sense in his
howl. As matters stand, the daily journal he
despises would seem to have a better sense of
decency than Tom Bent, and that’s all about it.
Bent and the Argus were both friends of
“ certain public men ” before their banks went
bung and their characters were damaged, but
whereas the latter chooses to turn its back on
damaged characters, the former denies the
possibility of any leading man being a
“ damned bad lot ” and deserving of a term in
gaol. The impudence of Bent’s bluff is as dis-
tressing as the fact that it can pass muster for
“manly uprightness” at a Mayor of Mel-
bourne’s luncheon. A Speaker who protests
against the “running down” of shamefully
busted banks, and would choke the cry of
stinking fish merely because the fish, being big,
stink the awfuller, is worthy to be held up as a
typical calamity in Victorian public life. In-
deed he holds himself up as such, and when the
Argus says “God help Victoria if the com-
mercial morality of Mr. Speaker—as an ardent
advocate of hushing up —were the commercial
morality of the colony,” The Bulletin says
“ Amen.” Yea, even “Amen” to the Argus,
for once in a way.
*. —-
Crown Evidence and Murderers.
Hardly a ghastlier horror can be imagined
than that which comes from Brisbane, Q., in
connection with the double hanging of Monday.
George Gleeson was recently convicted at
Cooktown, N.Q., of having murdered, in the
lonely solitudes of Prince of Wales Island, his
mate, Patrick M'Kiernan. When sentenced
to death Gleeson joked with the Judge, laugh-
ingly pointing out that his case—in fact, his
carcase—was about to be taken to a “ higher
court,” and asking his Honor’s opinion as to what
sort of an angel he would make. A Portuguese
named Moncado came next on the list, charged
with having abominably mutilated and mur-
dered a Port Darwin boy. Mr. Gleeson, the
prospective angel, was placed in the dock as a
witness ! He swore that, while fraternising in
the prison cell with Moncado, the latter had
confessed to having perpetrated the several
barbarities of which he stood accused. Mon-
cado confessed to Gleeson ! And this is
evidence ! And Gleeson had already been sen-
tenced to death and was, in the eye of the law, a
dead man ! The evidence of a legal corpse—an
angel!—was relied upon by “the Crown ” to con-
vict another alleged murderer ! But this is not
nearly all the horror of this narrative. Last week,
“ under the sweet influences of religion,” that
angel confessed to a clergyman that what he had
sworn in Court about Moncado was all false.
Gleeson had only wanted another Court scene,
in order to air his wit before the Judge, this
time from the witness-box instead of from the
dock. Grotesquerie of tragedy! He only
wanted a mate on the gallows ! Of course, it
is equally probable that what Gleeson said
last is untrue, as it is that what he said in the
witness-box was untrue. He may have been only
once more acting witli a view to attract the
special regard of spectators. He is probably a
crank. It takes a crank to joke with the Judge
who condemns him, though lots of people have
been known to jest familiarly with their last
valet, the executioner. But The Bulletin
holds (Imt “ ill*' Grown " should not have asked


lor, nor accepted the evidence of, its own con-
victed and condemned (and legally dead) mur-
derer. It holds that Moncado’s conviction
was utterly invalid. “ The Crown ” searches
high and low for evidence against an ac-
cused, but is stone-deaf to any special
appeals on behalf of anyone, unless that party
be “influential” and “respectable.” “The
Crown ” will accept the testimony of any per-
juring detective, any make-a-case policeman,
any pimp, or tout, or hireling— any ruffian at
all—and, as it is now seen, of a convicted
murderer— against an accused ; but it will be
most incredulous and critical concerning “ the
evidence of doubtful characters,” as the writer
once heard an Australian judge protest, if that
evidence should happen to be in favour of the
prisoner. A thoughtful observer, whose oppor-
tunities for noting such matters have been
sufficiently numerous to give his opinions on
this matter weight, asks—“ Is * the Crown ’ a
high school of perjury ?” Experience affirms—
whatever you please. But “the Crown” hanged
Moncad© along with Gleeson all right, last
Monday,
What is a Protectionist Tariff?
Sydney Evening News, which has for the past
five years been making believe that it favours
Freetrade in preference to Protection, showed
only last week that it still gropes in a dismal
intellectual fog. It expressed amazement that
a Protectionist politician should have proposed,
and a Protectionist Ministry endorsed, an
abstract resolution in favour of a progressive
land-tax. The News apparently has innocently
accepted the present New South Wales revenue
tariff as a Protective tariff, and has not yet
succeeded in realising the fundamental fact
that just in so far as a tariff yields revenue it
fails to give Protection, and that essentially
there is no earthly reason why a Protectionist
should not be a Single-taxer, if he feels
that inclination. The ideal of Protection-
ist legislation excludes a Customs tariff
altogether. The object is to exclude from
a community all commodities which can
l>e advantageously produced by its own mem-
bers, not to fine people for importing, but
to prevent them from importing such articles at
all. Scientific Protection does not tax. And
inasmuch as a protective tariff is successful just
in the degree that it fails to provide revenue,
and as the State cannot be carried on without
an income, the Protectionist looks every-
where except to the Custom House for revenue.
It is really he and not the Freetrader, who
detests Customs revenue. It is really he
and not the Freetrader who naturally directs
Ins attention to superfluous wealth, property,
land, for the necessary funds for the mainten-
ance of the public service. The real protec-
tionists in the New South Wales Legislature
are to-day storming at the Ministry because the
tariff yields £BOO,OOO per annum. Mr. Burns,
a downright Freetrader, when Treasurer in
Parkes’ original freetrade administration, had
no objection toCustoms revenue. With a curious
obliquity of mind he, objected to any Customs
taxation which did not yield revenue, and
consequently did tend to encourage local
production. As a matter of principle the
present tariff might be continued in New South
Wales, with trifling modification, by a Freetrade
administration, without any abandonment of
principle. And without great modification in a
contrary direction it cannot be continued by
the Protectionist Government except by a very
serious sacrifice of principle, The only real
reason why a Freetrade Government could not
continue the existing New South Wales tariff,
slightly altered, is because Freetraders and
Freetrade organs and members of Parliament
have either stupidly or maliciously agreed or
pretended to agree to regard it as a real sample
of Protectionist fiscalism.
' ♦
The Uncertainty of Humour.
Melbourne 'Erald, commenting on the addi-
tion of four “ working-men ” to the Maoriland
Legislative Council, observes that “ the spec-
tacle of, say, a working carpenter entitled to be
addressed as the ‘Hon. John Smith ’ is not
without a certain amount of humour.” A news-
paper edited by a parson isn’t expected to be
much of an authority on humour, but as an
exponent of the gospel of snobbery in simple
faith it would naturally carry weight. To
canting respectability, then, there is a flavour
of ridicule about the term “Honourable” when
applied to any mechanic on active service. The
title doesn’t harmonise with his common felt
hat, or inferior tweed coat, and is incompatible
with the state of earning one’s living in soiled
shirt-sleeves. The Fitchetts of this world may
not deny, once and for all, the possibility of
creatures like carpenters being honourable in
the dictionary meaning of the term, but
they can scarcely associate it, in an official
sense, with any “ unrepresentative ” per-
son. And no manual labourer can be
representative, because physical toil is a
thing apart, so to speak, from official life.
This is the doctrine of land-boomers, clergy,
stock-brokers, civil-servants, and non-producing
citizens in general. Carpenters and such like
have been known to assert that the average
knighthood is a ghastly joke, and to declare
that they see a certain amount of 1 umour in
Fitchett’s reverent reference to h s patron,
“Sir” Matthew Davies, but the question as
to what really constitutes humour is difficult to
decide. Some people laugh bitterly at Tom
Bent’s occupation of the Speaker’s chair, others
shake their sides at Sir Bingy Bingy’s schedule,
many take a comic view of the ’Erald’s tender
regard for broken bank directors, but whether
any of these matters are as funny as the John
Smith idea is a problem too abstruse for casual
discussion.
Women and Votes.
Bear Bulletin, —The female suffragists have been
raying things to Premier Dibbs. Now I want you
to let me say some things to the female suffragists,
I would ask you to say them, but I am afraid you
wouldn’t, as you are a bit of a female suffragist
yourself. Not that I feel any hostility to the
woman who wants a vote, or wants to sit in Par-
-'lament: because, after all, I’m not sure that you
are ui.it right in pushing the representation prinei-
pie to the point of one person one vote. Still, I do
want to say two or three things, and if you will let
■me, here goes.
• # *
My dear good women, God ordained that we
should all be fools, more or less : and you have no
call to exert yourselves to improve on His handi-
work. Please don’t talk about the Hand of God
driving you out to secure 'political power, so that
you may redeem the world. You can’t redeem
the world _by merely putting an end to the
shocking sights that you say are to be seen
in city streets. Of course, by “shocWng
sights ” you mean the women who congregate
there. Now, frankly, I don’t think it quite right
to use that term in such a sweeping fashion. So
far as outside appearance goes, some of them
really look very well. Besides, you won’t get all
those women off the streets just by giving them
•votes. You can’t put them all into Parliament.
# » *
Next, if you are really anxious to turn these
ladies into voters and possible members of Parlia-
ment, please don’t put it on the ground that they
have a right to it. Nobody has a right to the
suffrage, except as the law gives it to them. The
democratic principle of manhood suffrage is not
based on any notion that every man has a right to
vote, it is simply the means by which democracy
seeks to achieve its ends. If those ends could be
better achieved by the appointment of a dictator
or a Czar, there is nothing in the principle of de-
mocracy to prevent that plan from being adopted.
* * *
Government is not, and never has been, founded
on rights—except the right of the strongest. In
all ages the crowd that had the power has Used it
to carry out its own purposes. The source of
power has been constantly varying, but the rule
has always been vested in that man or body of
men who, as a matter of fact, were able to subju-
gate the rest. Sometimes a man has been boss
merely because he was the biggest and the
strongest, sometimes because he was the cleverest,
sometimes because he had the power of supersti-
tion or inherited ideas at his back. There have
been autocracies, and democracies, and theocracies,
and aristocracies, and the simple, old-fashioned
Government by a gang of swashbucklers ; but the
same principle has inspired them all. The man
who held the whip has always used it to make the
team go in the direction he wanted. When there
has been what is called a good king, what he
wanted has sometimes been to see the people
under him happy, and he has tried according to
his lights to get it —not because the people had a
right to it, but because it was what he wanted.
If what he had happened to want was somebody
else’s wife, he would have used his power to get
that.
« * #
Now the people are beginning to get the power
into their own hands. They haven’t got it alto-
gether yet. because they have not quite freed
themselves from the yoke of certain superstitious
and deeply-rooted modes of thought. But they
will get it, and when they do they will use it, as
all other ruling bodies have used it, to get what
they want. It is not quite clear yet what they
will want. The Bulletin thinks they will want
Socialism, I don’t. But whatever they do want
they will see that they get it. And the form of
Government they adopt will merely be the means
they choose to employ for getting it. If repre-
sentative government on a basis of manhood
suffrage commends itself as an efficient means,
they will adopt that. But if they do adopt it, it
will not be because every man has a right to the
suffrage; it will be because the democratic crowd
is the buss crowd, and that is the best way it can
see of getting what it wants,
* * *
So, my dears, if you want the suffrage, and
want to give it to the “shocking sights” of
King and George streets, don’t waste your breath
talking about rights. King Democracy is getting
himself settled on the throne, and your plan is to
make friends with him. Just find out what he
wants, and make him understand that the easiest
way for him to get it is to give you" votes, and
depend upon it, whether you have a right to them
or not, he will give them to you.
THE PLATYPUS.
According to “ Spectre,” inS.M. Herald,
South Sea natives don’t care to work on their own
island, “having enough to eat, they only con-
descend to do an odd job now and then.” When
they get away from home they have no choice.
“Spectre” shows this, and gives away the Queens-
land labour-question when he writes :
I asked one gentleman why he did not employ the men
at hand, instead of sending so far for other blacks. His
answer was significant. “See that fellow,” he said,
pointing to an intelligent black-boy who was acting as our
guide; “if I asked him to work for me, he would not
come for less than 4s. or ss. a day, and then he would only
come when he chose, and would be taking constant holi.
days. On the other hand, the men I brought here are
hound over to work for three or five years, and cannot
leave me during that time.”
Dear Bulletin, —In last week’s issue your
correspondent, “T.,” disposes of the Woman
Suffrage question in one act thus :
It is peculiarly unfortunate for the New South Wales
Women’s Suffrage League that there should, simul-
taneously with their demonstrative deputation to Premier
Dibbs, demanding the suffrage, have been displayed an
exhibition of woman’s work, The exhibition furnishes
the most crushing conceivable proof of women’s incom-
petence to participate in serious affairs.
I fully agree with the above. Bub at the same
time isn’t it somewhat regretable that the One-
man-one-vote question should come up at this
time, just when the bursting of 42 banks, and the
horrible collapse of the maritime strike, and the
shearers’ strike, and the Barrier miners’ strike,
and the inception of the fatuous Argentine
movement, have furnished the most crushing
proof that the capitalists of Australia are born
swindlers, and that the workmen are mostly fools ?
I have seen the show of women’s work for the
Chicago Exhibition, and it is simply ghastly, and
proves that women shouldn’t have any political
power whatever. I haven’t seen the exhibition of
men’s work for the same affair, because there isn’t
one. The N.S. W. exhibits consist almost entirely
of mineral specimens, wool, timber, and similar
raw material, and as to anything beyond it is
practically non est. This shows distinctly that
men shouldn’t have any political power either,
and a careful consideration of the Post-office
carvings, Hansard, Bishop Smith, the Balmain
ferry-boats, the Bare Island fort, Jawbone Neild’s
Bill for the suppression of Vice, the Y.M.C.A.,
the Federation Bill, the Church, the National Ass,
the recent Art Exhibition, the larrikin, and
nearly every other exclusively male product all
through Australia lends additional weight to the
contention. Why not carry the thing to its logical
conclusion ? A few women produce a most
inartistic collection of work—therefore, women are
incompetent to participate in serious affairs. Also,
a few men produce a fearsome collection of daubs
and call the same an art exhibition—therefore,
men in general arc incompetent to participate in
serious affairs either. —Yours, Ac,, Tilts Salt.
Malvolio Wins!
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Though there’s many a slip
’Twixt the Cup and the “ tip,’
And ’tis folly to dip
In a deep sea of sorrow,
Yet one cannot forget
That “ Our betters ” will bet,
Spite of certain regret
On the sober to-morrow.
And for once in a way
We take part in the play
Where ’the bookmakers lay
Little traps for the backers,
Who venture and dare
To rush into the snare
Till their pockets are bare
As those naked Kanakas.
Our war-cry is heard—
We have each a “ dead-bird ”
And a notion absurd
That it’s going to do it.
We ate dashing and bold,
Also green as of old,
And our bright yellow gold
Well, we manage to “ bloo ’’ it.
Vet protest is vain—
E’en the wise are insane
When the Cup comes again
With its vanities hollow
So, prithee, suppose
That the rooster who crows
Is “a party as knows,”
And “ a safe ’un to follow.”
Then, since each mother’s sou
Seems to back “ number one ”
In the contest begun
When his relatives bore him,
Number I (take the hint)
On the card is a gint,
For nothing in print
Takes position before him.
And Malvolio’s name
Wears the halo of Fame
He’s the very self-same
Lump of mettle and vigour
Who took the big trick
When he wasn’t as quick
As to-day, or as thick
In his thoroughbred figure.
What’s a stone, more or less,
To His Nibs ? We confess
A belief in success,
Which is why we are pinning
Our faith to a horse
That has galloped the course ;
And we think he’ll endorse
The opinion by winning.
You may, if you please,
Put a bit on Cor reze —
But certainly he’s
Not the stamp of Malvoly.
The boss of the pair
Is the big ’un, we swear,
You may follow us there,
Yea, by all that is holy !
As for clever G’Naroo,
All he’s going to do
May be perfectly true,
And we fancy his breeding ;
While The Admiral may
Be the sailor they say—
But you’ll find on the day
That Malvolio’s leading.
Young Oamoola can fly
As you’ll see by-and-bye ;
“ Clonard 1 ” they will cry
When some jockeys are whipping ;
And we fancy Portsea
Will be second (D.V.),
But to give two or three
Is ridiculous tipping.
For one only can win
(A “dead-heat” reckoned in)
Though a mob of them spin
For the glory and siller;
And we go for one straight,
Never heeding his weight.
Didn’t Redleap, of late,
Bring the grist to the Miller ?
The field for next week
Reads uncommonly weak—
Aye, in poorness unique.
Then is Carbine forgotten ?
The weight on Old Jack
(He’s a goner, alack !)
Was a flea on his back
When the others were rotten.
And here is a case
Where a lot in a race
Cannot live at the pace
That Correze means to make it.
But Malua’s stout son
Will be game for a run
When the duffers are “ done ”
And he’s going to “ shake it.”
EDMUND FISHER.
“Oh Liberty, what rhymes are committed
in thy name!”
An Irish physician recommends people to
boil their water and their ice.
They now put detective microphones into
the cells with Russian political prisoners.
Eloquent paragraph from Melbourne
Standard: “The finances of the Y.M.C.A. are
in a straitened condition, consequent on the
reverses in the fortunes of some of its erstwhile
chief supporters ”
Let’s lift our voices, sob aloud in sympathetic chorus,
And wail together of the woes that lately have come o’er
us.
The many pious gentlemen in whom the young men
trusted
Have paid for pounds with pennies, or incontinently
“ busted.”
Their pious prospect’s blighted, and our hopes are dis
appointed.
The hand of dire depression is upon the Lord’s anointed,
It seems the gay Y.M.C.A. must shape for liquidation,
Or down upon its marrow bones, and pray for more
inflation.
There’s sorrow in the Bourke-st. Hall, o’er pleasures that
are banished,
O’er the tea, and buns, and picnics, and the other com-
forts vanished.
Yet hope’s eternal—when once more their lucky star has
risen,
The holy cause will flourish when the chiefs arc cut of
prison.
CORRESPONDENCE
iVti ‘notice will be taken of communications which arrice
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in'every case appear on MS.
‘‘ Tent.”: The story was prima-facie the tale of
a hysterical woman. Hysterical women who romance
about the assaults made on their virtue are dangerous as
tigresses at large, but they are less dangerous than jurors
with no glimmerings of psychology....“ Old Sydney’':
The information will be used shortly “R.T.”: Un-
fortunately, we cannot elaborate the Deniliquin incident
••••‘‘Tony Raulix”: Too like a hundred other stories
we have read —in the penny magazines “Anxious
Parent ’: If expert surgeons can’t help your son, it’s
almost a moral that the practitioner you mention can’t
either.... “ G. 8.” (Melb.): That about the telephone
connection is a lovely but unprintable Frenchy joke....
Bush Lawyer”: It is infra, dig. to explain jokes ; it is
also infra, dig. to label jokes. The man who runs in
his paper a column headed “ Wit and Humour,” is a
hopeless case......“ The Woodpecker”: Thants
, Unsuitable “P.”: As well blight we pub-
lish the plates out of a gynaecological treatise
J.W. (Winton): A perfect idyll....“ Sidney B.” (5.0.):
A clever letter ..“Malwk”: (1) In September, 1809.
(2) You never can tell for sure the hand which
is behind a column of type. The mystery of the
Man with the Iron Mask was less penetrable
than the anonymity of the press, where steps are
taken to secure real anonymity. Neither good nor had
personal character is necessarily associated with literary
excellence... “0.H.8.” (Vic.); A slavish parody of the
most hackneyed poem in the vernacular “F. G.
Lrnst ” : “ Douceur ” is certainly not a good equivalent
for the English testimonial or purse. Douceur means a
J' 1 ? - sav to a hotel servant, it also means a bribe ...
“G.J.”; “Avenged” (11 sides) consists of bald, un-
decorated plot only. Could be advantageously boiled
down by 97J per cent.... “Claudia” : The first rhyme
settles it. “Laden” (sorrow-laden) of course, precedes
“maiden.” “Duplex ” (M.L); Thanks.... “ Boab”
(Brisbane): Delightfully domestic ... “ Escamillo ” ; (1)
but we can’t tell you the date of the other
... “ C.C.0.” ; But then Broken Hill is a pla e where
you can’t sleep much in daylight, in summer—unless, like
the blackfellows, you don’t mind flies crawling round
your nose... “Will C.” (Q.); “To my 1 ipa ” is an
ancient strain. And “have rose” is unpardonable
"Deearo”: “Though Idephre” spoils the last of three
excellent versis—brings them all to earth wilh a crash. ~
“Thistles” (Newcastle); We decline to “ take back the
contumely” we put on your birthday ode. Birthday
odes to a woman are bad enough: addressed to a male
they are as tasteless as a man kissing his uncle “ Lillie
w ” : Nothing in the sketch but goats, wretchedness,
and bearded women... “Richmond”; The man who
says flatly that there isn’t a Heaven is just as absu <1 as
the man who says there is. We have no evidence either
way. You might as well say there are no goats in the
back yards of the constellation of Hercules... “F.
Gunn”: Received with thanks. Only why is “David
Thompson, Esquire,” at the head of your dnnocratic
league? And what is the difference between him and
the other officers who aren’t “Esquire?” “A. J.
Casey ” ; You say there isn’t much merit in
your verses. Why do you send them then?...
“A Frequent Reader”: The soul-stirring conundrum
isn’t in our line “Baccupidus”: We have a faint
recollection of saying once that your poem should be
hanged on a gallows 40 feet high. Consider the gallows
abbreviated this time... “ Boiling William ” : Thanks
“H.A.S.”: You describe Sydney as “Where vice and
crime are rampant and where harlots line the street.”
Better knock 5 per cent, off the harlots for ready cash.
They aren’t so numerous as all that “Democrat”
(Ross): The back-blocks mayor who is “stoushed” in
the eye by a councillor isn’t worth a column of good
space.... “ C.S.” (Brisbane); We read your poem—alas!
.. “ Cucumbere ” : Will use...“ Back-blocker ” ; Principal
feature is that your drunken shearer yarn is shorter than
usual, instead of being longer than usual as it usually is.,
“ Spotted Gum ” : W’e presume the blanks in your verse
are intended to be filled in with language unfit for publica-
tion ...“ Robert W ’’(Sydney): The rhythm is evi-
dently intoxicated, and the jingle has sprung a leak
“ Yenon ”; Three people sitting on a verandah and talk-
ing about the earth’s axis isn’t our idea of humour
“Gay time”: We don’t allow any man to sing to three
girls at once in this paper....." I. O.”: It reads—excuse
the statement—like dull blasphemy without any head on
it. Flat blasphemy, like flat beer, is no good “Emerald
Hill”: The man who shot his only water-tank, in a dry
season, while firing at a cat has been printed before,.
“Mia Mia": Too hurried. In three sentences an infant
has been found on a doorstep, adopted, christened, em-
braced by a mysterious female, carried off, a weeping
woman has delivered a letter, and Mrs. Smith “had a
shower-bath in America.” “ M‘G.” (St. Hilda): Why
should Australia " Put the gay Maginnis on his everlast-
ing give?” What is a Maginnis? “F R.H. ”(Ch. Oh.,
M.L.): Humorous story, but the humour is like that top
step that everybody goes up in the dark, and then finds
it isn’t there. Think over this carefully . . “ G.A.”
(Bourke); Thanks; will use “H.W.H.” (Dunedin):
What is “ Ihe unbounded vcice of Liberty” “ C.K.” :
Too misty and allegorical for ordinary use."
“ A. 8.”: The haughty villain who has “ some-
thing undefined” about him is a used-up nobleman..
“Old Glub”: You have no more humour than a cata-
logue of agricultural implements “The Pariah”:
Yes, one crowd grabbed for city allotments in the
early days so that the unearned increment might come
along before their churches died. And the other would
take a bill at 20,000 years if the shecurity were all right,
and feel cock-sure that his church would be there to col-
lect it when it fell due.. “Peter B.’’; Idea good, but
metre should be sent to the hospital “Pakeha”:
Thanks. And the moral is “put not your trust in a lean
politician for he will sell you, or in a fat one, for he will
forget you.” “ D.0.D.” : Will, make a prose item out
of it—“J.F.H.”: Modern Hansard is bad enough.
Hansard of last century is worse “R.W.”: An evil
that comes “with gradual tread urged by the hand of
parasites” needs explanation. What kind of parasite
treads by hand? “L.8.5.R.” (Gladstone): We never
print that story which is told by Bill beside the camp-fire.
Tell your own story; don’t lean up against Bill..
“ Gultuppa ” : Poem weighing 1 Jib. to hand. Was it
meant as a poem or a club?. ...“Democrat” : “Toilers,
arise,” is played out. Moreover, some of the greatest
reforms the world ever saw were effected by men who
couldn’t “ arise.” A great nation was saved once by a
patriot who was so fat that he could only roll unless four
men helped him “Not a K.0.M.G.”: Don’t you see
that the photograph is “doctored”— i.e., that a man of
modern date has been stood in front of an ancient shop ?
...." R.T.D.” : Thanks ...“ S.P.K.”: 0.K... “Laroba”
(W.A.) and “Jog” (Q.); Many thanks “Brumby
Disk” (Inverell); Winton (Q.) correspondents have
written us concerning the catching, in way-back country,
of blackfellows by Purcell; and Meston has assured us
that he has some real myalls among what you terra a
tame and civilised crowd “C.J.A.”: There is but one
“Price Waning.” “W. Roller”: No climax
“Thomas Bridle” ; Tub Bulletin never did suggest that
Ihe unions should be bossed by a "despot.” It suggested
that there should be a leader and a council, both elective,
and district councils, also elective—that there should be
a republican organisation instead of anarchy, and that
the leaders shouldn’t habitually give away the plans of
the unions to their enemies on the gas-bag principle. This
isn’t despotism, but level-headed self-government. [Many
replies held over.]
Employers may as well know that any
good billet to be had at Sydney registry-offices is
generally sold to the one who will pay most for it,
ability not being taken into consideration. At
present one without friends or money stands as
much chance of drawing a big sweep ns of getting
■employment in Sydney.


The Broken Hill strike-leaders are being
tried at Deniliquin by a jury of farmers. Farmers,,
as a rule, are strong cheap-labour men.
Twenty-four lepers at the Little Bay
(Sydney) lazaret. Three Europeans and three
Chinese have gone in since the beginning of the
year. Of the 24, nine are Europeans, 13 China-
men. The rest are—one Javanese and one
Kanaka.
THE BEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid to Policy-holders in Forty-nine Years
THE MUTUAL LIFE ’SSZ? OF NEW YORK.
Funds Exceed £33,150,000.
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Profits paid to Policy-
holders. Bonuses larger than in any other company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and
we will forward you an illustration of the benefits to be obtained under modern forms of life and
investment assurances, in which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
immediately upon receipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Cor pany's
agencies throughout the world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
Principal Agency: ... 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches; 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; 223 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE-
Mrs. Beeton says : “ Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a 1 wine that niaketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. 6d., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clarets, and they are only one-third of the
price.
The man who having hot detects himself
singing before a race is doomed to lose. His only
safeguard is hedging. Few betting men have the
courage to wager their money after having seen a
cross-eyed person. Such an occurrence is an
omen of the worst sort. The appearance of a grey
horse never fails to cause anxious search for the
red-haired crirl —the combination is invincible. Tt
is a sure sign of success when a man keeps his
securities in the Sydney Safe Deposit.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Oct. 26, 1892.
My Dear Moorabinda, —
U ill religion become the rage in Sydney after Lady
Jersey’s sermonette the other day at theY.VV.C.A. tea
and hymn orgy, I wonder? After prizes had been
awarded for a “ Scripture-hunt ” (whatever that may be)
“ M.E.J.” rose and preached the Gospel like a brand-new
curate. Strikes me it’s a serious thing when a Governor’s
wife exhorts her subjects to shake off the Evil One,
because whatever m’ lady does must be the straight snip,
and if it’s the Government House caper to be in a saved
state of soul, Potts Point has got to be saved at once
before the next “At ’Ome.” It will be a tough contract
for most of 'em, but they’ll have to get grace somehow.
After all, though, methinks Lady J. keeps her religious
patter for the pouah peepul. It’s so nice to encourage
working-girls to embrace a moral faith that keeps them
out of mischief if they take it properly ; and it helps the—
er—department of the Benevolent Asylum to get its
second wind. You don’t hear many posers from the
Scriptures in the red droring-room at Government
’Ouse, and thougli M.E.J. couldn’t tear herself
away from the bun-struggle hereinbefore-mentioned ere
the young persons had voiced another hymn, 5 - et you
don’t see the “Sweet By-and-bye” down on the per-
fumed programme at her ladyship’s musical at homes.
Doesn’t Flossie Seemore want her frivolous little soul
saved as well as Mary Ann? Yet you never hear of Lady
J. rising with a solemn expression to talk about the
“practical way to advance the Kingdom” to a draw-
ing-room full of “Pointers.”
A fight to a finish proceeds at the charming Sydney
marine suburb of Bondi between a recalcitrant Anglican
flock and the Primate. The flock don’t want the angtl
in embryo whom the Primate has pitchforked among
them as their pastor. To definitely express their dis"
approval of this particular guide to a Better Land, the
deacons resigned in a body, and got the rest of the audi-
ence to stop away on the first Sunday and let fie parson
be brought to his bearings by an empty house.
But one member (a wealth j'merchant) kept true to S.
Smith (I don’t mean myself, but the bishop). He went
forth, and by dint of strong prayers and mild bribery he
got a scratch mob to fill the church for the parson’s
premiere. And when the bone of contention stepped
into his eyry he faced a cordial S.R.O. house, no matter
if Half of it was holding its church-seivice upside-down !
The only revenge left to the other side is to turn off the
gas at the meter during “ Evensong.”
The feature of the vice-regal garden-party last week
was the nigger-minstrelsy sort of figure a society lady
cut. You have seen those funny corner-men who come
out in evening-dress reversed—white where it ought to
be black, and vice versa? Well, that’s Just what she
looked like. Her skirt and coat were of white drill, with
a black silk shirt. Lots of rather gaudy frocks sported at
the garden-party suggested a trial canter before Melbourne
Cup.
Southern Society has been rather disappointed in the
wife of a recently-imported military Mogul, who has
turned out to be too pious to play chaueys with the vessels
of wrath. No society business for her. She wouldn’t
bare her shoulders for worlds, and if you do catch her
“moping mum” amidst gay and festive surroundings,
you may wager gloves that she’s strictly “official.” Al!
this is very disheartening to an upper one hundred whose
social wings have been clipped by departures for the
Continong, mourning insolvencies, and all the rest of the
visitations which society is heir to.
Sydney has an Amateur Banjo and Guitar Society, con-
sisting of thirty-one assorted members and a man to shake
a stick at them, and they gave a concert in the Centenary
Hall the other evening. The society looked very flowery,
for the fifteen ladies on deck wore radiant hues instead of
the idiot-like uniform of cream or white (occasionally
varied with a badge) which is the way the average con.
ductor drapes his ladies when they let him. Though, as
a general thing, the neutral tints are the safest, because
you run fearful risks of Jarring colour-contrasts on a
chromotrope stage. I have a painful recollection of a
crimson plush getting next to a red tulle on a platform
once and wrecking my evening.
The Society’s music didn’t exactly irritate me. Some
of the effects were sweet though wiry—like a Jew’s harp in
the hand of a master, while sometimes you couldn’t help
being reminded of a stick rattl ng i.lrng an iron fence
for the mantle of D’Arcy Read lias not yet fallen on the
amiteur guitar-ites. But there aren’t many musica
possibilities in the average “ chitarro” outside of moon-
light gipsyings, where even the concertina-squeaker is
treated like an artist. The Society’s best numbers were
the “Sylvia” pizziati and a couple of old Spanish
marches, both of which came in for some of the encores
that telescoped the fifteen items out to a couple of dozen.
Of the eight people put down to assist the amateurs
Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs, at the piano, came off best. Her
light, firm touch and genius for clear-cut pianissimo got
a double call for “Marcia,” and an artistic little bit was
given in response—Just the right-sized encore, by the way,
to wedge into a crowded bill. And encores remind me
that I would like to warn any screechy soprano whose
vocal steam - whistle is courteously tolerated by the
audience not to be too eager to return and give out
another burst of song as long as a Dutch hotel bill, Just
because somebody is clapping. The wily singing woman
who wants to be popular should keep her eye to a hole in
the curtain or somewhere, so as to see whether all the
enthusiasm isn’t due to the exertions of a loyal small
brother in a conspicuous position.
I have often been vastly entertained (while listening to
amateur music) by the airs and graces of the performer
who mounts the stage, wearing his hair long and his
collar short, and a yearning expression of countenance,
because he always has to steer for the hind-most seat.
■The more neck and lack of barber-ism an amateur puts
on the more you can safely bet on seeing him cheek-by-
Jowl with the eighth fiddle.
This, really happened the other day in the whalebone
department of a big Sydney drapery. An unmistakeable
lady hayseed, accompanied by a small girl, wandered up
to the counter and demanded “ a pair of staiys for this
one.” “What size does the little one take ?” asked the
attendant, naturally enough, but this ordinary query sent
the green-hide mamma completely to grass. After a pain-
ful pause and much mental wrestling a bright idea
occurred. “ I dunno’ exactly,” she said, “ but ’er dada’s
six foot in is socks if that’ll ’elp yer.”
“ An influential committee ” intend giving Mayor and
Mayoress Manning a complimentary return ball on 15th
Nov. in the Centennial Hall. They really ought to give it
on the sth Nov., because the company will all look regular
guys after the first waltz in such a summery month.
However, the date is fixed, and Messrs. John Woods and
Leonard Dodds have been appointed hon. secs.
Talking about hot weather dances, if we could only
come out in the airy twilight ascribed to a Brisbane belle
at a recent Banana ball, I’m sure we could all dance right
through the dog days. Her description doesn’t take
more than a line—“ Miss— —, a tasteful salmon pink
sash.” That’s all; and from the simple admiration ex-
pressed by the reporter, one gathers that the lady was the
belle of the evening.
The two recent sensational, sentimental Sydney suicides
show up the opposite effect of love on masculine and
feminine natures better than whole books of Goethe-isms.
Everybody knows the particulars. The man had been
jilted by a girl. One night he followed her home, and
after some overbearing, useless words, he shot her twice,
and then fled into the darkness with a yell and shot
himself dead.
The other was a young girl, who left a melo-dramatie
shilling novelettey letter by the railway-line, and then
calmly placed herself in front of a train. The letter said
(it was all obviously cribbed from a shocker) —“Forget-
fulness of him is not in my heart, and remembrance of
him will cease only with death. Again I charge you to
tell him all, but only in the event of my premature death.
Make no mistake, dear.” Could you draw a clearer
definition between man’s fierce, selfish, egotistical passion
and woman’s meek, self-renouncing love?
A concert in aid of the furnishing fund of Prince
Alfred Hospital nurses’ home happened in the Centennial
Hall, on Monday evening, under the direction of Rivers
Allpress. The Governor brought Lady Hilda Brode-
rick (in a rather dejected pale-blue silk), who
behaved very gracefully over the beautiful committee
roses meant for Lady Jersey—it’s rather difficult to do
the stalking-horse act prettily; the Jersey governess
in black and blue (she was the recipient of a flat
little nosegay like a tart) and Captain Leigh. There
was a light, though creamy, attendance, and most of the
damsels had their little semi-chignons tied up with wide
ribbons ending in a flat bow at the top. This, by the
way, is a very kind style for the hairless houri who can
dilute her scanty tresses with radiant ribbons and get up
a head like an “ after using ” hair-restorer ad. The stage
was patriotically trimmed with waratahs, palms, and so
on, and some draped bunting helped the acoustics
muchly.
A feature of the concert was the musicianly reading
given by Miss Lottie Hyam (in a smart white satin gown),
and Rivers Allpress of a Grieg sonata for piano and violin.
But Miss Hyam alone in a Lizst “ Rhapsodie ” displayed
certain mannerisms in the first part which prejudiced the
whole bit. Miss O’Reilly’s “ Old and Young Marie ” was
feelingly voiced, but here and there she produced an ex-
plosive consonant with a force that spoilt the artistic
aspect of her song. And Arthur Deane wobbled. This
budding baritone has a gold-mine in his throat if he pro-
spects for it, only he mustn’t be content to go on as a
pleasing amateur who doesn’t deserve a brick even though
he pumps his music up and down in the agonies of vocali-
sation as if the sheet were a beer-engine. Strauss, a
remnant of the dead and gone Orpheus Club (very much
out of form as might be expected), and Miss E. Deane
were the rest of the stars dotted about the pea-green pro-
gramme.
Yours affectionately.
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Wild Cat Column.
The Barrier Miner (Broken Hill, N.S.W.)
still holds out a shadowy hope of success for the miners
on strike. It is about time to abandon this delusion.
The only prospect is the maintenance of a passive resist-
ance, and passive resistance is not tearing up the rails
which, metaphorically speaking, has been tried and has
failed, but simply lying down on the track when the train
is coming. It is the same thing as attempting to burst
the Union Bank by persistently sitting on the doorstep.
It is the art of conducting war by not fighting and not
running away, but only standing still and waiting to be
captured. The mines are steadily filling with blackleg
labour, and in the present ghastly state of depression it is
certain that the supply of blacklegs is almost unlimited.
Tlie miners, with ail the resources of the law against
them, cannot eject these intruders by force ; they can
only treat them witli silent contempt. And the blackleg
doesn’t care a straw for silent contempt.
# * #
. Mr. Whippingdale Johnson, P.M ~ wires to
Sydney that “it may yet be necessary for the Govern-
ment to protect the unionists from the fury of the
workers”—i.e., the blacklegs. This is Mr. Whippingdale
Johnson’s satirical method of saying that the strike is
over.
* * *
It is alleged that the same Diobs Cabinet which
so enthusiastically suspended the labour conditions for
the big silver companies at Broken Hill, when they broke
their arbitration agreement, positively, refused a similar
suspension for a small flux co., which was unable to carry
on because the Barrier trouble had stopped the demand
for its product.
* * *
“ Seller, 245.; no buyer,” is the latest published
quotation for Federal Bank shares. These shares are 50s.
paid-up; the dividend lias been omitted this half-year;
and the last stiver of the £135,000 reserve-fund has been
set aside to meet “ possible shrinkages in securities.”
The trail of James Munro is over tire Federal, but surely
that alone isn’t sufficient to explain all this?
%
The Royal Bank of Australia held its meeting
in Melbourne the other day and declared a dividend of
5 per cent. The Royal Bank has been in existence for
about five years, its paid-up capital is £300,000, and its
reserve fund is exactly £5OOO, which is about as remark-
able an instance of thrift as that of tire man who lias two-
pence put away as a provision for his old age. Also the
auditors say that “ in our opinion ” the balance-sheet is a
true and correct statement-a reservation which is worth
noting.
# # #
At the Mercantile Bank meeting Graham
Berry remarked, more in sorrow than in anger, that if he
had known the smash was coming he would have sold his
shares, and as he didn’t sell them, that was sufficient
evidence that he was kept in profound ignorance. Which,
put into simple language, ii just this: “I drew my
dividends while 1 could get them, and took a_ big salaiy
as director to watch over the interests of the shareholders
and depositors, I obviously didn’t watch over them,
though paid to do it, therefore I didn’t know that a
smash was coming - . If 11 ad known, I, the paid guardian
Of the shareholders* interests, would have used my posi-
tion to get rid of my own liability, and pass the ruin
on to somebody else. Darn everybody else ! Possibly
some widow would have ben hfc my shares and been
beggared. However, that would have been her funeral,
not mine. Eat or be eaten ! Amen ! ”
* * *
Mirams proves to his own satisfaction that the
Premier Permanent can pay 20s. in the £. But it won’t.
• • «
The Maria Island Company was one of the last
concerns they entered into—now the Black Maria Com-
pany is in the distance.
• * #
A “ring” lately formed by the Sydney iron-
mongers has utterly broken down, because a universal
provider stepped in and took up their trade.
* * #
As a result of the long stretch of bad business in
Brisbane, in more than one large local establishment
bank-clerks are acting as cashiers.
* * *
A sign of the times (which has reference also to
a recent flotation proposal): Rents in a certain Sydney
arcade have been considerably lowered.
* * *
Some years back a N.S.W. Western District
squatter had a good quartz-mine. The reef was fairly big
and averaged an oz. In the vicinity, some miners struck
a 2ft. reef and carried a shaft down on it 100 feet. The
crushings taken out of the shaft averaged an oz. The
squatter waited and watched developments, and finally
■came along with an offer of £2OOO. It was accepted.
Strange to say, he could never get out of that reef more
than 5 dwts. to the ton, which would not pay, and having
lost his money, finally abandoned the mine. Explanation
—some shareholders with the miners worked in the
squatter’s other claim, from which they took away enough
good stone to make the other average an oz., and thus by
his own gold was the squatter “salted.”
* * *
The value of all evidence, at public meetings as
in Law Courts, can only be estimated by the proved
■credibility, or otherwise, of the giver. Nobody, as far as
The Bulletin has observed, show s a disposition to cheer
the deeply incriminated prisoner who makes a plain state-
ment of his innocence from the dock.
# * #
John Robb, of the Melbourne Herald, says
that if his Co. loses the action against the Standard
Co., the case will be taken to the Full Court, and, if
necessary, to the Privy Council.
# * #
A Melbourne manufacturing co. was floated at
boom time, conjointly in Melbourne and London, at a
figure rather larger than its proper value. After two
years’ work, dividends fell so much that the Melbourne
shareholders, representing about three-quarters of the
total number, called a meeting and agreed to wind-up
the co. and reorganise—present shareholders to have pre-
ference of allotment in the new concern. Result—
Melbourne shareholders receive decent divs. while London
ditto get back about one-tenth of their cash invested.
This is one way of restoring the confidence of the British
investor.
# * #
It is not an unmixed blessing to have a pushing
broker like Arthur Forbes exploiting Australian mines
•on the London market. The mines he has introduced so
far have been good in themselves, but in the transfer to
English investors they become watered unto attenuation.
Take, for instance, the Golden Gate, Charters Towers.
The capital of the company in Australia was £12,000, in
48,000 shares of ss. It lias now been converted into an
English Co., capital £48,000 in 96,000 shares of 10s., exactly
four times the original amount. Now who bags the differ-
ence?
* # «
Wood’s railway brake is palpable in the La
Rose Estate affai r.
• * *
Pathetic wail from “ Another Victim ” in a
recent Arqus, re the “Davies Companies”: “All we
depositors get is a great many printed forms. No fewer
than six pamphlets have been received at our house
Within a week, all with stamps affixed.”
# # •
“ Mr. T. Brooks declared that whether the
Victorian Government determined to carry on the prose-
cutions or not, the British depositors would never rest
‘until the rot bus were punished.’” “The Official
Receiver, Mr. Stewart, informed the shareholders that he
had no hope of being able to recoup their losses by the
bank, but said he was determined to fix the guilt of
ruining iton the persons who were responsible.” All of
which indicates that the Britishers have a blind faith in
the integrity of Melbourne Juries, and the honesty of
Crown prosecutions of the Crown’s pals.
# # *
A mad bull was at large in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, one day last week, but attracted little attention.
They are getting used to mad “ bulls ” in Collins-street.
# * / #
The well-worn gag of election-time, about the
strike being the cause of the depression, is never heard in
Melbourne now. Even the most rampant young Vic.-
torians join in the general denunciation of Davies and Co.
as the authors of the trouble.
* # #
The old Solitary mine at Wattle Flat, N.S.W.,
has lately been taken up ; an effort is being made to float
it in Bathurst. Much gold was won from it years ago,
chiefly by tributors, who paid 15 per cent, royalty. Since
then the old battery has been broken up, the winding-
plant rendered useless, and the main shaft is full of water.
The reef is said to average 18in., and used to run 14dwts.
to an ounce per ton. It will take £4OOO to put the con-
cern in good working order, and if the men of Bathurst
put it up, they will be’ plucky.
# # #
Alter many months’ delay, the Alpine Pioneer
claim has been given to the miners who took possession
by virtue of their miners’ rights. It is within a mile of
Victorian border, near Delegate. A number of crushings
have averaged lOozs. per ton. The vein is small, hut well
defined between two splendid walls several feet apart, and
which, with depth, will probably fill with quartz, The
run of gold has been opened up on the surface over 50
yards in length. All the crushings have been taken on
the surface, hence there is only one reservation to make—
depth. In length it is a good thing ; depth has not been
proved, but should the gold go down as far as it is proved
in length (over 150 feet), this mine will make a big name.
At present it is a fair speculation.
# * *
Sydney D.T. must surely have changed its
Pambula correspondent. For many months we have
heard news of wonderful discoveries, big lodes, rich in
gold, prospective and continuous dividends. All lias
changed, and the D.T. now sings our tune, and condemns
everything but the field. The writer has condemned
everything, the field included. Bad as management lias
been the failure of the field is attributed to one potent
cause—insufficient gold. The ore bodies are not fissure
lodes but irregular, ill-defined masses of rock in which
gold is sometimes rich but always precarious and treacher-
ous. All the old excuses are played out.
s # #
N.S.W. Government Geologist Pittmann con-
cludes that the formation and origin of the Broken Hill
lodes is analogous to the saddle gold reefs of Bendigo, i.e.,
a cap with an eastern and western leg; and that like
Bendigo, when these legs taper away with depth, other
caps and legs will lie found. This coiild be proved or dis-
proved by boring through the cap to a greater depth—
which he advises.
# # *
The report of the official receiver on the Dr
Kaap gold mine, South Africa, shows how the British
mining investor is “let in.” The public paid £BO,OOO
cash, some of which went thus Underwriting, £lO,OOO ;
nominal vendor, £10,000; brokers, £1000; law costs,
£1400; advts., £1000; promoter, £25,000. And the
manager, unable to get his salary, got a Judgment, and
the whole of the Co.’s property was sold for £172, the
machinery, which alone cost £5OOO, and had never been
unpacked, being knocked down for £B5. Reminds one of
N.S.W.!
# # #
Several miners and tradesmen have lately
written asking for our opinion of the chief South African
centres from the worker’s standpoint. When we last
heard from Johannesburg the place swarmed with dis-
appointed men from all parts, mostly Americans and Aus-
tralians, preparing to quit. The' ore was nearly all
low'-grade—from 5 to lOdwts.—and only extensive up-to-
date machinery enabled most of them to carry on at all.
Very few were paying dividends. Business was dull.
“ The trail of the late boom was over the land and the
labour-market was drugged,” wrote our correspondent.
That was a little more than a month ago. The whole
place is in the hands of British syndicates, and all things
are made to work together for their good as far as pos-
sible. Prom which we infer that the Australian worker
can’t improve his lot in South Africa.
* • *
Three tons of tin-ore—only three tons and
nothing more—were lately rooted out of a mine at Omeo
(Vic.). The result of this brilliant success is recorded in
the local paper : —“ A public holiday was proclaimed and
great enthusiasm was manifested in the event. A very
large gathering assembled from all parts of the district.
The procession, headed by the town band, started from
the company’s office and marched through the town. A
photograph was taken before the waggon started. The,
town was gaily decorated with flags and banners, most
conspicuous being the banner on the waggon, hearing the
inscription, ‘Three tons on board, three millions to fol-
low.’ ” The report further states that the shareholders
had good reason to be proud. Fireworks were let off in
the evening, and Omeo got tolerably drunk. We are now
waiting to hear which liquidator has been appointed.
* * #
A provincial Tasmanian bankrupt called a meet-
ing of creditors in his lawyer’s office. The clock therein
registered Hobart time, owing to which mistake the
lawyer (holding 10 proxies) and the bankrupt alone were
present. Proxy 10 moved and Proxy 2 seconded the
solicitor into the chair; bankrupt placed himself unre-
servedly in the hands of the meeting, but could make no
offer ; Proxy 8 moved and Proxy 3 seconded the appoint-
ment of the chairman as trustee—unanimously carried.
“ Any other business, gentlemen ?” “None ; ” Proxy 7
moved and Proxy 4 seconded a cordial vote of thanks to
the chair—carried without dissent; chairman thanked the
meeting, which broke up harmoniously Just as an adverse
creditor, with 15 proxies, appeared at the door, and was
told—" The little matter is settled, the meeting has dis-
persed, the statute does not permit it to be re-opened.”
The Supreme Court has upset the arrangement, apolo-
gising, however, for its broad interpretation of the Act.
# # #
A five-ton lot of stone, showing nice gold, is
being treated in Brisbane for a party working a reef at
Enoggera, a few miles out. The Brisbane papers notice
the thing favourably and head-line it with “Anticipated
Good Yield.” The Enoggera reefs ought to be known to
Brisbane people as rare old stringers. Neheir.iah Bartley
could tell all about them, if a generation hath arisen that
knows not the history of the Enoggera. Gold in the
quartz was found there as far hack as ’6B, if not earlier,
and a lot of work in sinking and tunnelling done. The
reefs expand and pinch, and the gold comes in in splashes
and then runs out again. No money lias ever been made
out of Enoggera. Besides, all Brisbane stands on an
auriferous formation, barring the alluvial flats along the
river, where tropical scrub used to flourish. There is a
gold-bearing reef of the Enoggera quality at Petrie’s Bight,
which was exposed in a cutting right under what was Dr.
Hobbs’ house. Not far from Wickham Terrace, i.e.,
almost in the heart of the town, there is a cottage where
the landlord put down a shaft on a reef. All the ridges at
the back of South Brisbane were once pitted with pro-
spectors’ holes, made by hard-up men who got stuck in
Brisbane on their way from the South to the Gympie rush.
* # #
The Witwatersrand (South Africa) gold-mines
are now turning out over IOO.OOOoz. per month. The
total output of the field for 1888, was 230,1890 z. ; for 1883,
369,5510 z. ; for 1890, 494,8100 z. ; and for 1891, 729,2330 z. :
while for the first half of the current year.the total yield
has reached 562,7040 z. The output lias ben practically
doubled during the last 12 months, the increase for June
last over the corresponding month of the previous year
being about 48,0000 z. The monthly totals for the current
year have been : January S 4,. r >6ooz., February 80,6190 z.,
March 93,2440 z., April 95,5620 z., May 99,4360 z., June
103,2530 z., and July, a little less. All the gold of the
earth doesn't come from our country.


THCIE
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
Oh Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080 , mid its SURPLUS
over all liabilities to £3,715,436, being the LA RGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
tonclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS. SIDNEY, N.S.W.
BURROUGHES
AND—
WATTS, ltd.
HILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS on HAND.
'l'ime Payments if Required.
S—JAMIESON LANE—S
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMINO WEEK.
Her Majesty’s " Silver King.”
Garrick...... "La Fille de Madame
Angot.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Brincess's “ Faust Up to Date.”
fluorr “ Walker, London.”
Opera House Alabama Minstrels.
Theatre Royal Maggie Moore Co.
Alexandra “Mixed.”
“Joan of Arc ” ends her career at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) this week, so it is needless to
use much further strong language about the ill-
starred female. “Joan” closes the season for
good, and if the Gaiety girls ever pay another
visit to Australia, The Bulletin trusts that they
will put a little more variety into their hair, which
has been one of the weak points in a show that
was rather exhausted all along. A company
whose hair is moveable should adapt the thatch to
the climate. In these last few days of the exhi-
bition the company, barring Lonnen, Courtneidge,
Haslem, and, perhaps, one more, shows a ten-
dency to fly to pieces a good deal. Miss Marion
Hood, who has developed an inclination to
fall asunder all through the season, is looking a
trifle more careless than usual, and the feminine
part of the company is kept up principally by the
vigour of the long, silent girl, who so recently
burst forth into song and speech. The impression
they create is that the female end of the crowd is
pretty tired of Australia, and will be glad to get
away. This continent was a gorgeous place when
they visited it for the first time, but the johnnies
of those days stood the champagne mostly out of
the depositors’ money, and now that the banks
are “ broke,” and the chappies are in gaol, it is a
cold, depressing land, dry and dead-broke, and
full of melancholy. .
“La Fille de Madame
Angot,” at Sydney Garrick ou
Saturday, pointed the moral that
the old school of comic-operetta
wants to have its talky dreary
dialogue cut up into half-inch
colloquialisms of the latter-day
libretto before people will be
trampled to death round the brok-
ing-office. A comic opera in
which a baggy villain stands on
an empty stage and hurls stilted
English at a ter-raitor, in a,
deep bass voice, wants gags as
badly as King Billy wants bacca,
Tis true you often want to kill
an incurable gagster, but even
that is better than going to
sleep. Soldene the She of the
operatic stage—as Madame Lange
presented a blooming appearance
when she didn’t come too near
the pitiless footlights, and got
thro’ her music on the very
fag end of a once-liquid warble;
yet her numbers were most
pleasing especially her tender
rendering of '“I Love Him So.”
Miss Deakin’s Clairette got on
very well all through. Johnny
Gqurlay’s “ Bomponnet ” was a
bright spot in a very spotted
performance his “She is so
Innocent” deserved the howling
encore that chased it. Also Rosa
Conroy was a picturesque fish-fag
and put good elbow-business into
the “legend” tho’ her voice ia
too light for her to do much harm
as a vocalist. The chorus deserve
a cheer, too, for the amount of in-
terest they put into their work,
from the Greek girl who pulled
her skirts higher to show more
of her boots, to the conspirator
who banged his enthusiastic orow-
bar into some concealed crockery on the prompt
side. Also Bella Bashall’s serpentine dance
received a call and a floral snake, twining round
a stick, which Bella held in her arms and kissed
as you see gushy girls kiss a baby when there’s a
bachelor present.
** * *
George Rignold, that old favourite with
the yearning expression beneath the limelight,
opens at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday in
the “Silver King.” George himself plays the
part of Wilfred Denver, and among his supporters
are Edward Sass, Hans Phillips, Harry Shine,
Misses Henrietta Watson, Watts-Phillips and
others. The scenery, by Gordon and Goatchei’, is
being laid on regardless of expense.
** * *
Sundry variety shows keep on their way
with much the same success as hitherto. The
variety co. seems proof against change; it
doesn’t boom much in good times, and it doesn’t
fade to any appreciable extent when times are
bad. Dan Tracey’s minstrel troupe at Sydney
Gaiety still retains the lead. The two Aquariums
(Bondi and Ooogee), the Alhambra, and a few
other places also announce new and stupendous
attractions at intervals, which generally means
that the man who used to be at the one show is
now at the other show instead. Also one new
and stupendous attraction is so like another that
very few people can tell the difference.
** * *
“ Walker, London,” was put before an
expectant public at Melbourne Bijou on Saturday
night. The curtain rose upon this new and ori-
ginal incentive to slow merriment somewhere
about 8 p.m,, and by 10.20 the story of “ Walker,
London,” had trickled away into silence, two
fairly long waits having occurred meanwhile.
Nobody would wish to speak harshly of this
entertainment. It doesn’t excite anything but
mirth, nor too much of that. It is an episode in
the mild career of a harmless barber, who obtrudes
himself into a select social circle on a house-boat,
and passes for somebody else. The girl of his
heart—a plump and relentless female in a green
sash —prowls around in pursuit of this uninterest-
ing man, until she finally falls asleep on the upper
deck of the house-boat. When she has slumbered
for half-an-hour, the tame haircutter hooks her
chair to a crane and swings the torpid Venus into
space, whereupon she wakes up and argues the point.
By this time the barber has tired of mixing in
house-boat society under false pretences, so he
lowers his girl into a punt below and the pair
return from whence they come under cover of the
stilly night. His fashionable friends, becoming
aware of this strange flight in the punt, cry aloud
for his address, and the distant voice of the barber
is heard to exclaim, “ Walker, London !” as the
tragedy concludes. This same punt is pushed to
and fro rather frequently during the evening.
The half-dozen leading characters are addicted to
going up-stream in the punt, and returning pre-
sently, but sometimes they vary the monotony by
sitting down on the tow-path. Two girls help to
fill up the time by becoming engaged to two young
men, except when they are lavishing a. casual
romantic affection upon the stray barber. Also,
there is an elderly mamma who devotes her life to
crochet, and a handmaiden who smashes the
dinner-plates. Eor the rest there is little but
silent river and the sleeping form of the spinster
in a green sash. J. M. Barrie, a popular humour-
ist of the “new school,” wrote “Walker, Lon-
don,” for J. L. Toole and Go., and it may be that
the ancient comedian is highly diverting in the
chief part. Robert Brough was not specially
comic on Saturday. He didn’t get inside his
character, nor did his character appear to have an
inside for him to get into. Misses Romer, Major,
Temple, and Gibson, together with Boucicault,
Cecil Ward, and Chichester, hovered around the
house-boat in their usual pleasing manner, and
Spong’s one bit of riverside scenery met with loud
approval from a crowded audience.
* * *
At the Opera House the Alabama Minstrels
are doing what good r iggers have ever done in a
"FALK,” PHOTOGRAPHER, SYDNEY,
MISS ALICE LEAMAR.
specially capable manner, and business flourishes.
The show continues to start off in a black semi-
circle and work along into clog dances and discus-
sions between Woods and Emerson, but fresh
ideas sprout forth as the season progresses. In
fact, the performance on the whole is inclined to
be better than thousands of others which have
gone before, and if the myriads of nigger-shows
yet to come should be a little better than this, it
will merely prove that the world is gradually
moving on.
** * *
Pollard’s troupe of highly-trained juveniles
are still enjoying themselves at the Princess’s,
“The Gondoliers ” which ran all last week, seems
to display these rising artists at their best, inas-
much as it is mostly under the control of the girls,
who sing with feeling and have nice little ways
with them. The boys, on the other hand, chortle
like bull-frogs and, as comedians, are but very
weak suggestions of men, after all. In “Mas-
cotte,” produced last Saturday, the lads Stephens
and Quealy had to do more than was good for
them. They were undoubtedly successful con-
sidering their age and sex, but the little damsels,
either in skirts or tights, seemed more at home on
the stage. Audran’s opera was to be followed on
Wednesday by “ The Mikado,” for three nights,
after which the collection of youth and inno-
cence will skip sorrowfully away. It is nob
generally known that these children love
acting more than pie. They hang on to
rehearsals with their teeth, and can with difficulty
be induced to leave off singing choruses when they
have sung enough. In fact, Pollard has to rush at
them and shout “Shssh ! ” several times before his
company will clear the stage.
** * *
On Saturday the Gaiety Burlesque crowd
appear at the Princess’s for their third Melbourne
season. Twice they have made a farewell appear-
ance at another theatre and promised to go away
for good, but hero they are again (or will be im-
mediately) like the gruesome clown of Xmas
memory. It is the intention of this oft-recurring
epidemic to break out anew in “Faust Up to
Date,” and a booking fee of half-a-orown will give
ecldt to the joyful occasion.
** * *
Other attractions are getting ready for
Derby night, and Melbourne is threatened with a
violent revival of music and the drama all over
the place. At the Royal they are polishing up
the furniture for Maggie Moore, who has hired
the scene of her former triumphs for positively
thirteen nights only, commencing as “Meg, the
Castaway.” A holiday company including Annie
Taylor, Corlesse, Geo. Carey, Greenaway, Charles
Brown, &c., are seized with a ndble ambition to
have another go at the Alexandra, so a fresh
chapter in the chequered career of that establish-
ment will be opened with “ Mixed.” Max O’Rell
returns to the Athenaeum for Cup week, and
Frank Clark has already returned to the Vic.
for an indefinite period. The Ooghills and Dan
Tracey are running their rival halls as usual, and
many other places are putting on a carnival spurt.
Altogether, Melbourne is trying to look very
giddy and light-hearted.
** * *
Armes Beaumont, who lately put his trust
in banks and lost his money, is to get a grand
benefit concert at Melbourne Town Hall on
Thursday (10th Nov.). It is hard luck for Beau-
mont to really need a benefit in the autumn of his
melodious life, and a host of old admirers, local
and up from the country, may be expected to
embrace this opportunity of assisting to “ tem-
per the wind ” to the shorn tenor.
For “Poverty Point," see page 20.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
For the first time in several years one feels
doubtful—writing a week before the race—of being able
to pick the Melbourne Cup winner in, say, six tries at the
post. Mentor, Bravo, Carbine, and Malvolio were each, in
.heir respective seasons, included amongst the popular
naif-dozen most likely ones, and no rational punter or
prophet left them entirely out of his calculations. But
just now, with no recently brilliant performers, save
Paris and Camoola, and no reliable stable tips to swear by,
it is hard to be wise before the event. Possibly there will
be good judges ready to back six against the field when
the numbers go up, but in the meantime thirteen horses
at least seem to have a show of winning, for the
reason that there is no line by which they can
be proved (on paper) quite out of the contest. Mal-
volio, G’Naroo, Camoola, Portsea, Correze, Malolo,
The Admiral, Paris, Candour, St. Albans 11., Tirail-
leur, Steadfast, and Penance, shall stand as The
Bulletin's thirteen, and the others can consider them-
selves rejected. Some of those others are perhaps worthy
of notice, but the writer takes the awful responsibility of
saying that such as Oxide, Honor Bright, Eurus, Affiance,
and Clonard, may be safely discarded for this year’s
Melbourne Cup.
* # *
Working backwards at the list of thirteen, then,
we will object to the heavily-backed and lightly-weighted
Penance on account of his want of size and loss of form
last year. Smart two-year-old colts that “go off ” as
they grow seldom come on again to any great extent.
Besides, Penance hasn’t grown much, and doesn’t
look equal to a two-mile journey. Steadfast, on the
other hand, has won over the distance, but if he is to pull
off the Melbourne Cup, he wdll have to start a fairly warm
favourite, and the public can wait for the Wilson money
to go on before thinking seriously about the son of
Nordenfelt and Nellie Moore. Steadfast is a grandly
bred one, who, fit and well at the post, would be the pick
of the handicap, bar nothing. Seemingly he isn’t fit and
well. Tirailleur also appears to be under the proverbial
“ cloud ” once more, although a few weeks ago Mr. Gollan
cherished hopes of this delicate horse. He was
better than he had been for the last twelve months, but
now the touts declare that Tirailleur is a “goner,” and
the touts are sometimes right. When wily Hebrews offer
100 to 3 against a high-class animal, the case looks bad.
So over goes Tirailleur.
* • #
St. Albans 11. is unfashionably bred, and nob
very brilliant as yet. The latest form of this horse is his
best form, all the same. Also, he seems good enough to
back against Forty Winks, wherever they may finish, and
many clever people think that Forty Winks will finish
nearly in fiont, notwithstanding his seedy aupearance
when he ran at Caulfield. Call St. Albans 11.‘“danger-
ous, and let those who know all about it risk their money
on him. Candour may win the Melbourne Cup if he wins
the Derby. His chance for the handicap comes on for
discussion under the head of Camoola.
* * *
Paris is presumably the fastest horse in the
whole crowd, and the most likely to be in front as they
turn the corner. He couldn’t stay the two miles last
year, though, a fact which, taken in conjunction with his
9st. 81b., justifies one in throwing him out this time, good
as he is. The term “ crushing weight ”is a relative one.
Little Paris may be crushed by an extra stone or so,
which, in the writer’s opinion, makes precious little differ-
ence to splendid cattle like Malvolio. Wherefore, over
goes Paris, and The Admiral with him. Mr. Sam Cook’s
nag is supposed to be very well again, and he ranks as a
Derby winner. But it was a poor Derby that The Admiral
won, and after winning it he finished behind Correze for
the Cup of ’9l. If Correze be equally well, as they say,
he certainly ought to beat The Admiral once more.
* » •
Malolo is a mysterious animal, almost the image
of his sire, Malua, but his chance is purely a matter of
stable estimate, and stable estimates are frequently in-
correct. Up to the present, Ike Foulsham has named
G’Naroo as the pick of his lot—whether this “informa-
tion ” indicates that Malolo can beat G’Naroo is a deep
question. In the last Melbourne Cup it happened that
G’Naroo, a strong favourite, fell over at a time when,
according to jockey Morrison, he had only to go
on and win. “ I was overhauling them easily when
the horse came down,” said Morrison to Mr. Ike.
But jockeys always fancy these things. G’Naroo,
whatever his people may think of the recent Caulfield
Cup running, isn’t a “dead bird” on paper, and no one
can trust him with boots and socks for the sake of what
he has done. His weight is the chief thing in his favour,
because other horses with much about the same handi-
cap haven’t done as much. Portsea is a game little
sticker who runs religiously behind in small events of late,
but is always being backed. Bamage declares that
Portsea is the best horse, bar Carbine, he ever rode, so, if
Bamage is a young man of brains, and strictly truthful
to boot, Portsea ought to go very near to it.
In a field where mature second - raters will rank
as giants, a good three • year - old must have
a great chance. Camoola’s excellence is still
open to doubt, and even a Derby win (we think he
will win the Derby) may not mean much this year.
Camoola ran home like a genuine article in the Caulfield
Stakes, though, and should he pull off the Derby with the
same graceful ease, nothing but want of stamina can
keep him out of a place for the Cup. Finally, we have
(at time of writing) Correze and Malvolio, backed at 10
and 12 to 1. The market points to Correze as the better
horse of the two, and all the “ knowing ” ones sav he is
better than last year’s winner. But didn’t people sav the
same of Tantallon, the stable-companion of Carbine, a
week before the great horse romped in ? Handicapper
Dakin fancies Correze for the Cup, and he is not the worst
informed man in Melbourne on racing matters. Yet, one
can’t see why the horse that won last year shouldn’t win
again in a worse field this. Malvolio ought to be quite as
lit as Correze, and the weight will scarcely stop him if he
is his old self on the day. Five shillings on Malvolio, and
chance it!
• # •
Like Bravo, winner of the ’1)0 Melb. Cup,
Clonard has twice successively run third for Caulfield
Cup.
* # #
In ’9l we tipped a horse they call Correze—
Twas a printer’s error dropped us in the stew ;
Now we fain your loss and anger would appease,
On our oath, we meant the brute for ’92.
Peter Bloce.
A certain Sydney business man has, up to date,
invested £l2OO in Tattersall's sweeps, and has drawn-
three cash prizes of £lO each. He held 500 tickets in IhU
year’s big sweep on the Melbourne Cup.
# # •
Taking all the Cup horses on their best previous
form and in good condition, The Admiral is about the
best weighted.
• # «
There’s a bright little girl in a Sydney shop who
has backed the Derby and Cup winners straight out for
the past three years. She picks them herself, too, and is
particular about the price.
» * m
One Sydney tote-man says he tried hard to run
square, but could not get the public to patronise it until
he “faked." Another, well established, says he runs it
square because he is making a pile at it, and it’s too much
bother to fake.
* # #
In having two strings to his bow, Redfern has
the whiphand over the big sweepdrawers. For instance,
if the holder of the Malvolio ticket is not liberal, the
trainer and owner can jig Correze, and vice versa.
* * *
Tattersail’s commission on Melbourne Cup
sweeps will total some £17,000. It would be interesting
to total how much George has drawn, since he started the
game, in commission, not to speak of unclaimed prizes.
* * *
Also, what arrangement he has with the Bank
of N.S. Wales as to interest on the moneys paid into his
credit.
* # #
The writer has it from what ought to be good
authority that the Paris stable tried to hedge their
money, and Parker thought his chance so poor that he
begged Monaghan to let him off the mount. However,
as Parker wired to Sydney, on the morning of the race,
“ G’Naroo, Paris and Gleuloth,” it does nob look like a
true bill.
* # #
The other day a couple of Melbourne detectives
took tickets in some Chinese lotteries, and the Govern,
merit used the prize-money to pay the expense of prose*
cuting the Mongolians who ran them. The D.’s got what
was left.
• * *
The other night a Sydney sporting writer was
heard narrating how, in his young days, he had broken in
a 9-year-old filly.
• # •
A Sydney (King-st.) tote-man, the other dav,
added up his “No. 2 on Melbourne Cup” as 1237 sub-
scribers. The list, as printed, gives 1347 subscribers—
showing that he only made a little error in his own favour
of 110 subscribers, or £55 clear profit over and above
commission, which on 1237 subs, means £6l 17s. !
* * *
Hutchens’ successor, James Newall (Eng.), Oft.
high and 13st., has jbst run 125} yards in 12 secs.
• * «
Kenny (Vic.) has swum a hundred yards, in
America, in Itnin. 9sec.— 6}sec. below the local record. In
a mile race, cramp stopped him for a time, yet he beat all
competitors in 2min. 7sec. beiow the Yankee record.
• • *
Morgan should be in the next N.S.W. inter-
colonial cricketing team. He is not far away from the
best bowler the province can produce. Newell should
have another trial. He failed against the Englishmen,
but one shower doesn’t make a winter.
• # #
Ohilde Harold, the champion Sydney trotting
pony, the other day reared clean over and dashed his
brains out. He was just entering upon stud duty, and
his death will at all events prevent a deal of confusion in
the future in trotting pedigrees. The man who christened
the pony after his sire possessed little originality.
* * *
A lych gate, said to be one of the most beauti-
ful in England, has been erected at the entrance to
Lambourn Church, to the memory of Charles Jousiffe,
race-horse trainer. The Bishop of Reading performed the
dedicatory service.
* • #
It is alleged that an inmate of one of the Parra-
matta asylums drew £3OOO in a Metrop. consultation.
* * #
British liars take the cake. Ninety-nine out of
every hundred Britishers who visit the kawlinies have
stroked the University eight of their year, and been
taught boxing by Jem Mace. The Australian liar is good
in his way, but he lacks the cast-iron cheek of the tucked-
up trousers brigade.
• # »
The N.S.W. Government Printing House is
remarkable for evergreens. “Bob” Fairweather held
the palm for many years, but he must now back down to
“Jack" Degotardi, who lately rowed with the S.R.O.
senior eight. Deg. must be nearer forty than thirty.
# # #
Some queer things happen in this world. A
big Dutchman, Owns, goes to England and wins the
Diamond Sculls at Henley; then Frenchman Lepron
comes along and beats Owns. Then a French eight beats
an eight from London Rowing Club. What is the matter
with J. Bull ?
The Adelaide master-bakers propose to
make the men work 60 hours a week for £2 a week
maximum wage from November Ist.
The Knapp-championed Sydney woman-
suffragists should not forget the apothegm of one
of the sex: “The most painful thing about
woman’s rights is the kind of men who advocate
them.”
James Mansfield, secretary of the Victorian
Seamen’s Union, has been fined £lO and heavy
costs “ for persuading a seaman to leave thes.s.
Gabo.” Now, supposing David Syme were fined
for persuading a pressman to leave the Argus and
join the Age instead—what kind of a row would
follow, we would like to know ?
Mr. Alexander Britton, who died at Syd-
ney on Monday, was one of the most ex-
perienced of Australian pressmen, and had for
the last year or two, since his secession from
the S.M. Herald, been engaged in the task of
preparing for publication, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, the early records of N.S. Wales, Mr.
Britton, who was only in his 47th year when he
passed away, spent the best years of his life in the
exhausting position of sub-editor of Melbourne
Argus, to which journal his younger brother, Mr.
Henry Britton, is still attached. The deceased
was as taciturn and as reserved as all the other
Argus men of long ago, but his quiet exterior
concealed a warm and manly heart, and he will
be sincerely mourned by his family and comrades.


Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe's Schnapps. 1 Bewilre of imitations.
Prei nier Djhbs ipuch of his success to
G N U N Darlings.
' " PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
On the Block smoking (rX U X Dkrliiiga
ojfcac i
JERUSALEM ! ! !
OKTLY
©
il
inTTp C nrTTn'?T OP l e fT h ° J° not ?° ir ? fo T Photography miss one of the greatest pleasures of life, we have fitted.
t YT, , on ;pu Jr 1 ij .|, ,lul y ,V- 1 1110 OUIFIT at the above price, hoping to induce an enormous number of people to indulge in this beaut l-
ful hobby. The Camera (as illustrated) is an instrument splendidly made of polished mahogany, with strong, well-made bellows and folds into aV. r\
small space. It ,s fitted with a good, folding tripod stand, an excellent lens, and a dark slide to take two plates. Everyth^
provided, as follows :
1 Doz. DRY PLATES
1 PRINTING FRAME
2 EBONITE DISHES
1 PORCELAIN DISH
I FOCUSSING CLOTH
1 Set SCALES and WEIGHTS
1 RUBY LANTERN
1 MEASURE GLASS
Etc., Etc.,
ALL CHEMICALS FOR DEVELOPING
ALL CHEMICALS FOR PRINTING
SENSITIZED PAPER
PHOTOGRAPHIC MOUNTS
And also, a complete GUIDE TO PHOTOGRAPHY, that will teach anyone surely and quickly how to
To take Pictures x3| inches (rather larger than Carte de Visite)
Do. 6| x 44 inches (rather larger than Cabinet)
** This in every way an excellent turn-out—not a toy, as are many that are now sold
FROST & SHIPHAM, “My
462. 474 ano 687 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
take pictures as well as any professions k
.£2 0 0
£3 10 0
Personal Items.
James Miratns is going in for a country
newspaper.
Why not make Rudyard, Kipling poet-,
laureate ? He’s J ingo enough, and that’s all that’s
wanted.
A, Melbourne musical genius has composed,
a “ Hopetoun March.’’ He refuses, to march,
however.
Sir. George Bibbs parts and pomatums-.
doiYn the scanty locks t.hat plain, George Dibbs
allowed to run w,ild.
Of the members of the new S.A. Ministry
two are lawyers, one a farmer, one a brew.er, one
an,ex-pubhoan, and the.sixth a temperance hotel-
keeper,
A Mrs. Grundy agreed to,adopt a,baby—jv
waif and stray—in, a Melbourne suburban court
one day last week. The old lady is improving
evidently.
Evangelist Yarley, formerly a butcher,,
left that for the “work of the Hoard, ” and now
boasts that he has five sons likewise engaged at
the same game.
Lady Windeyer is a, prominent woman’s,
rights advocate. Does her ladyship advocate their
right to the glorious privilege of being hanged?.
He’d like to know.
Stead s article on Djlke was quite Zolaistic,
In future the Review of Reviews , will have to.be,
looked away with other nasty literature in,the
trunk under the bed.
Parnell s estate Igis been realised, and the
sum total is .£2000., The £40,000 that was
presented to the silent man, a, few years before
Ins death has vanished utterly.
Henry Gyles Turner, manager of the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia, Melb., having had his
private house thrice burgled, advertises for,public,
information that he has now,up portable valuables,
left.
Victoria is becoming positively demo-
cratic. Almost any day of the week a visitor to,
Sheah all’s restaurant, Melbourne, .may, see at least,
three Ministers of the Crown, taking a, shilling
dinner.
Fish, member for Dunedin .(M.L.), accused
the Ballance Government,the other day of having
“the cloven hoof of the. serpent.” He has been
trying to explain it away ever since, but hasn’t,
made much progress.
Why doesn’t some.N.S.W. Government
get Mandarin Quong Tart, the Sydney tea-and-.
scone deity, made a K.C.M.G. ? The, insignia of,
the order, would be a good thing for the latest.’
baby Tart to play with.
Editor Fitchett, in running the Review
op Reviews, has not'lost his grip of Melbourne
Herald, and his sacerdotal influence is probably,
responsible for the fact that,t(iat journal deals so ,
gently with the “ bust ” boomers. " ~
If Mrs. Parker were an Imperial Institute
or a fashionable English charity, and Joseph
Clarke had endowed her at one fell swoop with all
the money she has cost him these last few years
he might have been a baronet like brother William’
Am eminent Sydney Q.C. seems incapable
of giving vent to his eloquence unless when toying
with a pencil. And where would Marion Hood
the Gaiety warbler, be if prevented from convul!
sively grasping the side of her skirt while singing?
Ferguson, one of the Broken Hill strike
leaders: “A lady came to me and said, when I
was in gaol, ‘ Stone walls do not a prison make,
nor iron bars a cage.’ I said to her, ‘Madame,
this is no time for sentiment. They are making a
very good substitute 1 ’”
It is a treat to see Tommy Walker, the
well-known lecturer, and now teetotal N.S. Wales
M.P., singing hymns. ' But the clergy’stuck to
him when most of his old friends gave him the
cold shoulder and Walker was grateful. ’ To what
may gratitude bring a man !
Copley, the new Minister of Agriculture
in Adelaide, began life as a plough-boy.' Lands
Minister Howe started as a police - trooper;
Treasurer Rounsevell as a coach-driver; and
Works-Minister Grayson as an engineer, Downer
and Homburg were bred to the law.
One of Alfred Bennett’s papers complains
that Edden, M.P., miners’ member of N.S.W.
Assembly, expectorates on the floor of the House.
However, people have noticed that Edden never
spits bn the floor unless he has previously placed
there, as a crachoir, a copy of the paper in ques-
tion.
Ferguson is undoubtedly the leading
spirit among the Broken Hill strikers. His speech
at Adelaide To * n Hall was worthy of any public
speaker—concise, pungent, witty, and always
eloquent. Sleath is a handsome, sturdy fellow,
and not a bit like the portraits of him in the capi-
talistic press.
Sir John Downer, the new S.A. Premier,
received his bauble through being Premier of
S. A. at the time of the Imperial Conference in
London. Sir John represented the province, was
knighted, and returned to And his Ministry
kicked out of office. John is 48 years old and is
South Australian" born.
Someone forwards us a two-column bio-;
graphy of the deceased Manchester, from an Eng-
lish paper. Boiled down, it amounts to a bald
statement that'the dead duke was a good sort of
idiot, who died from a complaint in the feet,
brought oh by rdnning after strange females, from
the Very highest motives, for over twenty years.
Poor old John Whiteman died without a
stiver to his name. Of late, he couldn’t,get about
oh his bad leg. So a few friends had arranged tb
buy a horse and buggy for the ex-bard (who talked
vaguely of canvassing—canvassing from the buggy)
when,a spirit came by night and brought a pair of
wings for John to.get. about on for all eternity.
Grace Graham, the Maoriland girl who-
was abducted a few years ago from the Barrier
(Auckland) in a crazy cutter by that fine buccaneer,
taie late Mr. Caffrey, and; cast up somewhere on
the Australian, coast, was, lately gaoled, for
vagrancy in Melbourne. The girl who gets her
portrait fpto the papers generally comes to,grief at
last., '
la a, Northern, council! the overbearing,
behaviour of a, certain wealthy mayor, who had
made a fortune by potato-dealing, exasperated his
fellow aldermen, one of whom, got, on his feet,
with, “Look here, Mr. X., when, I; was a.boy we
Uped to. call you* ‘Tater Dick,’ now, I think we
ought to, caR you, Dictator.” Which, broke up.
Groesus.
•Poor Judge Backhouse, as a, quid' pro quo.
fdt, being made, a, N.S. W. Supreme Court justice
for, a, few weeks, is being let in for all the dirty
work which the permanent, judges don’t care to.
tackle —Australian Banking. Company ease and
the Broken,Hill prosecution. However, the public
cordially hope yet, to see Judge Backhouse on the
Supreme Court, Bench.
Clement Scott alludes to Haddon Cham-
bers as,the “ most; amiable and promising of drama-
tists,’ but lie adds,, with evident pain, that
judging from his. latest work, “he-must have
jouied, the Young Men’s Christian. Association.!’
Haddon, by. the way, is, quite a pal of Mrs.
Langtry, who, writes him nice, little notes on
scented paper,and calls him her “dear, Charlie.”
Heuniker, Heaton, ac-
cording to common, report,
just missed a title by a.hair’s-
hreadth, and a pretty thin,
hair, at that, His, name
was included in the; last New
Year’s, list of honours,”
but some clerk,omitted it in
copying out the list* and
the “ member,for. Australia ”
was left. Then Henniker—
so the story runs—told all
his friends how he had been
on the verge of rising to
greatness, and Victoria, hear-
ing of this, got huffed
and omitted him . next time
for good.
Tom Curran,, the. ex-
pugilist, relates that when
he and Harry, Sallars were
prosecuted for their prize-
fight at, W.enibee, Aspinall
was briefed to defend him.
He began by panegyrising
the noble art of seif-defence,
and wound up a brilliant
speech with—“ Gentlemen,
the man who now stands
before you, charged with a
breach of the peace, owns
the name of Curran and is
no less a personage than a
relative of the immortal
John Philpot Curran, the
Irish patriot! ” There was
an instant verdict of
acquittal. Every man on
the jury was an O’Hagan
or a Mulcahy !
Millionaire Tysop’s
home habits differ little
from those of, the ordinary
Queensland decently - bred
squatter. He is hot extrava-
gant, but keeps a very good j
table. Each man sitting at
his meals has a clean, ser-’
viette put before him a
luxury which cannot always
be had in the bush. The
only singular feature about
the Tysonian repast is
that, instead of thfe ordin-
ary tea-pot, a, well-seasoned;
black billy - can is placed,
on the table and the tea
is ladled out from it, with a
pint-pot.
WRITER AND RIDER.
above the poet Gordon’s grave,.
Where rhymesters go to ponder and to whine.
Ijdid not seek the stunted shrubs to, layp
With salt and sympathetic tpars pf mine.
I grieved .hot o’er his “ lot austere,” not
Nor o’er the wants the poet did endure,
But wondered with a greahamazeinent why
The jockej/ came to die so very poor,
E. D.
Apropos a variety of things, The Bulletin.
asserts that if Kyrle Bellew’s name isn’t, Higgins
it ought to be Higgins. His father, Rev, J, C.-
Bellew, was the only child of Capt. Robert
Higgins, of Lancaster, who married Anna Maria
Montesquieu Bellew, of, “the county Galway,”
bedad. On attaining his majority, agreeable to
the wishes of his friends, he assumed his mother’s
maiden name. In a word, Kyrle Bellew is the
son of arpap whose born name was Higgins.
Poor old Sir Benjamin Bpnjapiin’s, strong,
point, was his ignorance. He probably knew less
and knew it wprfse than,almost, any other, man ip
Melbourne. .Sometime in the ancient long ago he
stood for a place in, the Legislative Council, and
being asked by a constituent if he approved of
trunk lines He is alleged to hav.e replied, after com-
siderable thought, that he did ; in his opinion,
every man should have room to carry his trunk
with him in the train. The constituency evidently
approved of the idea, and Benjy gpt into Parlia-
ment straight, off.
Pbenezer Ward;, M.L.C., is, in matters of
personal. finance, the Parkes «f South Australia.
Ebenezer, an, Adelaide paper relates, got posses-
sion of the Grampus run, bub hadn’t the means to
stock it. Millionaire Angas,, whose many runs
were all and who was on the look-out
for spare country, made an. offer to rent the grass
for 5000 sheep. Ward! gladly accepted it. Being
afterwards in Melbourne, and Angas’s name being
mentioned, somebody asked Ward if he knew
Angas. “ Know him ? Know him 1: Why, he’s
one of, my tenants !
A correspondent of the' North West
Times (W. A.h who travelled with G. Republican!
Bibbs to-London, avers that among bhe N.S.W.
Premier’s, traps wasanoldf weather^beaten, brown
box, bearing this imposing title in large white
letters: THE: HONORABLE G. R. BIBBS,.
ESQ., M.P., Premier of New South Wales.” It
was always, an, event to look forward to among
the passengers on “ baggage day ’’—the appear-
ance of the old brown box belonging to- the
Premier of New South Wales..
The late Laureate- was not utterly lost.
In a lucid interval he once wrote of “ the flattery
gilding the rift in.a throne..”'
Yet again !! It is now cabled that Dr.
Usher* of Melbourne, is studying cholera-inocula-
tion. The Australian public is- heartily sick of
hearing about Br. Usher* of Melbourne, who must
be, at least, the brother or guardian of the cable-
man’s best'girl! Perhaps the eableir.an will kindly
telegraph when Usher isn’t studying something.
A KARA AVIS.
OLD SETTLER : “I dunno much, about law —I’m not a J.P.”
BARRISTER (on holiday): “Ah! Thank Heaven, I’ve met, one at
last! Your hand, my man.”
(Invites him to lunch.)
Alfred Austin, an aspirant to the British
laureateship, has been described as “the tame
poodle of a Tory club.”
.Tjfor debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe’s Schnapps
Hprdpn and;Gotch, of London, are about
to extend their business to South Africa, and two
of their staff leave shortly to open branches, in
Gape Town, Kimberley, and Johannesburg.
•£l-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapp s
An,officer of one of H, B. M. ’s ships, now
lysing at Sydney, relates that some years ago when
out on the Swahili Goast be helped to constitute
ap impromptu board of examiners,, which sat to
enquire into the qualifications of a big nigger who
wanted tp become a Govt» interpreter. There is
only png book which has been translated from the
English into the Swahili language,, and that is
“ Atsop’s Tables,” which a former bishop wrote up
into nigger chatter.. The chaplain, who, with the
Captain, completed the board, handed the book
to the son'of Ham, open at the fable of the fox
and the grapes. The candidate, whose English
had been,fpr the most part picked up in the fore-
castle, attached the story valiantly as follows
“Bast commission labbit (rabbit) him see um
bpnch of glapes; him makee jomp ; him no catch;
him, makee jomp again, him no catch ; him makee
jomp one time more; him no catch. Last of all
him say, ‘No (blanky) good’”—which bold
translation pulled the blackfellow through.
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, i>3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
The other day at Hughenden (Q.) the
thermometer registered lOOdeg. at the highest
temperature and 34deg. at the lowest !
In the hierarchy of the affections, women
place love before friendshipmen place friendship
before love. Alphonse Karr told of a man who,
on being refused by a lady who offered to “ remain
his friend,” replied :■ “Thanks, madam. I lova
you. 1 desire to marry you, but my friend —no.
Friendship implies knowledge, respect, congeniality
of tastes. I don't know you well enough to be a
friend of yours.”
Thus a correspondent;—
Etear Bulletin,—l have read with much interest that
the West Australian Land Co., of London, lately declared
al5 per cent, dividend. The interest is purely a selfish
one ; I liold a few shares and trust to sret more shortly,
when I. expect to hear of a dividend of 1500 per cent.—for
!■ know something;. This co. owns, amori}; other proper-
ties, 200 square miles of land beginning 45 miles from
Southern Cross, B. by S. In ’B5, self and mate prospected
this country and found several things worth looking after,
though want of capital and “interest” prevented our
getting them. There is not only gold there but also nit
rates and coal, not to mention other valuable products;
One day we came upon what looked like sponges sticking
out of the ground. We put down a shaft about 80 or 98'
feet and came upon a bed of mineral sponges, exactly
similar in all respects to the ordinary marine sponge
of commerce. 1 have still one I use dailj-, and though
in constant wear for seven years it is as- good as*
new. (Not a patent-medicine “ ad.,” so please read on.)
Well, we got out two or three tons of these sponges and
were reckoning that we could sell them profitably at from
£3 to £(> a ton, when one night it came on to rain—
tropically. We had been smoking and listening to it for
about an hour when Tom asked “ What about those-
sponges?” I replied that L didn’t think the sponges
would come to any harm. “Yes, but we were going to*
get some away to morrow, and now they’ll weigh about a'
ton apiece.” (They averaged three or four feet in-
diameter, roughly.) “Well, we’ll have to wait l till they
dry, that’s all.” But an hour after we found ourselves,-,
tent, ground, and all, slowly rising heavenwards. Haih
an hour later we had risen fully 300 feet. “ flood-
Heavens! where’s this going to stop?-” “Don't know,
and don’t care ; we’re going up, so that’s all right,” II
answered. “ Yes, but we’ve got to come down again..
We must he over a. volcano or .something,” “It’s
all right, Tom, the water’s got down the shaft,,
that’s all, and the sponge-mine is swelling and of course
something’s got to give. It’ll go down again when they
get dry.” And so, of. course, it- did. No doubt the'
sponge-mine, and-the shaft, and the sponges", are there
still, but when the light'eame, in the morning, we found'
ourselves camped half-way up a spur of a range of hills;
which certainly weren’t there the day before, and about-
-20 miles east of; where we ought to have been;: and 1
though we spent three days-trying to find some trace of
that shaft and those sponges we failed utterly. That’s
why I want a mate to go with me, and prospect that
locality some more. Tom won’t go, he’s superstitious;;
and besides, he’s made a pile since then. He made his-
pile out of another discovery in the same neighbourhood,,
flie particulars of which are too astonishing to mention.
Yours &c., P.'C.J.
Few weeks now-a-days pass by but w-batl
the community is startled by the intelligence that?
sqme prominent citizen has been struck down by
sickness or disease. The constant strain on the-
nerves and the cerebral blood-vessels caused by
continual attention to work, thought, and business?
must tell its tale in the end ; the constant worry
of the struggle for existence will break up the
most robust constitution. Dr. Allen M'Lane, the
recognised authority of the United States on?
cerebral disease,.states that insanity is largely ©n-
the increase through the continual wear and tear,,
that he frequently has oases under his- care solely
due to extreme mental fatigue The practice of
taking alcoholic stimulants to ensure a false energy
is most baneful, and generally results in disease of
the blood-vessels,, and finally paresis. With such-
facts staring you in the face, and the medicall
profession powerless to grapple with the case,
nothing can be done but have recourse to a re-
liable remedy like Clements Tonic. This article-
has proved itself the greatest remedy ever- pro-
duced for sufferers from nervous diseases and the-
effects of over-work or other debilitating causes..
Clements Tonic is prescribed by the
because it knows that recovery invariably follows*
its use, that its uniform composition is the greatest-
security for sufferers and that its pharmaceutical
perfection and therapeutical efficacy can always
be relied on. Miss Frances M. Cairns, Glengarry,.
Victoria, writes:—“l have much pleasure in.
testifying to the curative powers of Clements*
Tonic. X,have suffered from liver complaint andi
indigestion for some years ; but the latter became-
so bad, early in 1891, that I was obliged to get
leave of absence from my school duties for a
month. I returned to work, but was very little-
better. The most pronounced symptom's were
sleeplessness and severe pain in the chest after
eating the least morsel of food. This pain com-
menced in the chest, passed round the heart, and
thence into my shoulder. I had read several of
the testimonials re Clements Tonie, and, as yet, I
had not received any lasting benefit from doctors.
I decided to try it. By the time I had taken one
small bottle 1 was very much better. The pain
was less, I could’sleep at least part of the night,
and I was not troubled with the horrible dreams
that had haunted me when asleep. I continued
taking it, and by the time I had taken three small
bottles the pain was gone, and the other symptoms
with it. Since then I have had one bad attack,
during last Christmas vacation. I again took
Clements Tonic, and soon became quite well.
Since then I have not had any return of the in-
digestion, and at this present time I feel much-
better than I have done for years. I have no.
hesitation in saying that Clements Tonic cured!
me. I was very ill, so ill that I could not have
lived long in the state I was in, and here I am to-
day, well and strong, with a good appetite, and:
able to enjoy a good night’s rest, all of which l!
owe to Clements Tonic. I first took it about this-
time last year. I might say, in conclusion, that II
was very prejudiced against what some folks call
‘ quack medicines.’ I had always called in medicals
aid,” —I remain, yours most thankfully.
Hundreds of persons suffer from boils, car-
buncles, and other eruptive diseases. These are
evidences that the system is trying to purge itself!
of impurities, and that it needs the powerful aid!
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s-
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.


THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to Call Attention to the dental practice of Mr.
1. Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and King
streets. He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth-,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyohite, &0., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address - Mr. ,1. 1.
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sydney Arcade, George and
King streets.*
tTse Batho’s Baking Powder.
Latest novelties and stylos for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
PEMRLL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
'Piie Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Coleinane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney
•). Lichtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., lias taken over the above old
eslahlished first-class hotel. Special rates for commereia
travellers and families.
Dibbs cables ; “ .Send me box of GNFN
Darlings.”
ẁ
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing’ Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St,, Sydney.
ŵ
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
%'i «i ‘H eiarmcf'Slreft,
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
O. Pi‘—Old Parkes.
Betitled and belittled ; there isn’t much
difference;
The Broken Hill strike caused a decrease,
to October 8, of <£109,413 in S.A. railway revenue.
Parkes is becoming solicitous for the
Unemployed. He is unemployed himself just now.
Why doesn’t some one prosecute a parson
for having his place of business open on a Sunday?
The Shiels Government is essentially a
protective one. It is even protecting M. H.
Davies.
James Service says there are at present a
thousand ex-convicts from New Caledonia in the
Australias.
The Earl of Onslow thinks Maoriland a
splendid place to send Salvation colonies. Re
venge is sweet.
A Compulsory Arbitration Bill is now
being discussed by the French Parliament. And
introduced by the French Premier, too.
The Saltation Army’s finances are in a
straitened condition. The finger of Providence is
here; they will not now trouble us with those
“settlements.”
The last expiring act of the Holder
Ministry (S.A.) was to gazette 40 new J.’sP.
This makes 1600 magistrates for 320,000 people, or
an average of 1 in 200.
N.S.W, now owes £*55,000,000. The
public works of the province pay the interest on
this less 1 per cent., which has to be made good
out of the ordinary revenue.
The kernel of Queensland’s 50 per cent,
reduction of payment to Ms.P. is, of course, the
desire to keep out the poor politician and let in
the one with an axe to grind.
Dear Bulletin,—Jawbone Neild’s Sup-
pression of Vice Bill is a direct attack upon
religious liberty and a menace to the soi-disant
Christian Churches.— Dipso.
Since its narrow escape in the Reid-Want-
of-confidence division, the Dibbs Government has
been occupied in studying political meteorology
and carrying its umbrella accordingly.
When Brooker was defending Kingston,
Q.C., from the attack of Attorney-General Stock,
in the S.A. Assembly, the other day, Mrs.
Kingston, carried away by excitement, applauded
loudly.
South Australian Licensed Victuallers
privately urge Grainger, M.P., to press on with
his Bill for abolishing the brewers’ monopoly, but
publicly they sign petitions hawked round by the
brewers against it.
Homburg, Rounsevell and Copley were
members of the Playford crowd which their pre-
sent chief, Downer, assisted to kick out. This
illustrates better than anything the present condi-
tion of S.A. politics.
Ninian Melville, who as cabinet-maker
made the chair he sits in as N.S.W. Chairman of
Committees, has recently elevated it and can now
see over the top of the despatch-boxes that line
the table in front of him.
Of the Argentine New Australia scheme
Sydney D.T. says :—“These are not the kind of
men we want to lose.” Of such is the paper that
trieth to make the pennies of the multitude
balance the pounds of the advertiser.
The Age, in a leader provoked by the
Review _of Reviews’ praise of the Argus, cites
a long list of measures which the Argus had
damned, and which had yet become law. Perhaps
the Argus will return the compliment.
That Queensland policeman, just sentenced
for petjury (one bird potted from a covey of a
thousand) agunst an Afghan, might have escaped
had he sworn falsely only against a white Unionist.
Black’s the Government colour in Bananaland.
Prom an Argus leader :
It hurts men in Great Britain to think of losing the
House of Lords as it would hurt them to talk of sweeping
away Westminster Abbey.
Happy association of ideas —both are graveyards.
It is quite certain, after all, that negotia-
tions were opened with the N.S.W. Ministry for
a grant to enable Parkes to retire from public life.
The negotiators Were two members of Parlia-
ment, but we do not say they were authorised
by Parkes.
Extract from affidavit filed by N.S.W.
country Justice of the Peace, showing cause why
he should not furnish trading-accounts in connec-
tion with his bankruptcy proceedings I have
never been educated, and can read and write only
with difficulty.”
Parkes moves his resolutions for the crea-
tion of an elective in place of a nominee N.S.W.
Upper House on Jan. 10, 1893, and on Feb. 21
Mr. Hutchison, of Glen times, moves—That, iri
the opinion of this House a second Legislative
Chamber is fraught with danger bo the advance-
ment and growth of the body politic, is inimical
to progress, and opposed to the principles of
democracy, and should, therefore, be abolished.
J. 0. Neild has greatly subsided in N.S.
Wales Parliament since the motion of censure.
His silence is variously put down to disappoint-
ment at the loss of a portfolio which was almost
under his arm, and exhaustion consequent on the
drafting of his “ Suppression of Vice ” Bill.
The wealthy Morehead, M.P. (Q.), who
opposes payment of members, always sends his
cheque to the St. George Hospital, and makes a
virtue of “ never handling the money.” In other
words, he does handle the money—he spends it in
the baldest and most transparent kind of adver-
tising.
Sydney Mail (weekly edition of the S.M.
Herald), bewailing the fact that Labour members,
being most attentive to their legislative duties,
take possession of the N.S.W. Assembly when in
committee and rough-hew bills as they like, recom-
mends the Upper House resolutely to undo their
handiwork.
No more Agent-Generalship for Graham
Berry. His London relations with the Mercantile
Bank have put him out of Court, and he is politi-
cally done for at “the other end.” Berry, too,
like Shiels and the rest of the crowd, made a
fatal ass of himself when he assumed that Mel-
bourne bluff would pass as “ honourable outside
the colony.
Dear Bulletin, The other day you
stated that G. R. Dibbs (when he was G.R.D.)
once mentioned to Lord Rosebery that Austra-
lians despised C.M.G.’s, for the same reason that
butchers don’t eat sausages —they know what
theyTe made of. But, sometimes, we don’t know
the quality of a sausage until we have got it in
our mouth. Sir G. Republican Dibbs is one of
those sausages.—M. Mac.
Premier Shiels had a phenomenally fine
opportunity to make a hit in the character of Pure
White Patriot, but wasn’t white enough to seize it.
The uninvolved husband of a rich wife, Shiels
could have afforded to cut all connection with the
cronk crowd who held him back, and pour legal
fire and brimstone upon Gomorrah from the
pinnacle of Fame. He might have taken all the
credit for ordering the inevitable, instead of trying
to dodge it and pretending that it hadn’t come.
Few young men get such chances to advertise
their political honesty. Providence must be
heartily disgusted at Shiels’ want of foresight.
Kopps(not Kops),
the new proprietor of
Pall Mall Gazette
(who has just suc-
ceeded, as per cable,
in losing his editorial
staff), is an anti-
liquor-traffic crank
who devoted half a
life-time to the dis-
covery of a “ temper-
ance beer ” which
would be tolerable to
the depraved palates
of pub. patrons. Last
year saw the consum-
mation of his labours,
and the English mar-
ket was quickly
flooded with the
wishy-washy result.
The P.M.G. will in
all probability de-
generate into a rabid
teetotal organ.
Ever since Pre-
mier Griffith decided
that he couldn’t,
“from motives of
h umanity, ” turn back,
for alleged inability
to pay the poll-tax,
the Chinamen who
came over the border
from the Northern
Territory, the Chinese
Restriction Act has
been virtually can-
celled in North
Queensland. All the
roads leading east-
ward into that pro-
vince are trodden hard
by Chinamen. None
of them can pay the
poll-tax, or at least
they assert that they
can’t. None of them
are sent back owing
to Griffith's “motives
of humanity.” And
therefore almost every
Chow in the Territory
has Ins far*pi tinwarrls
MINING A LA MODE.
MR. SHYNDIKIT: “Professor, ve haf engaged you to rebort on the .Pro-
mised Land claim.”
THE PROFESSOR: “Good! When can I inspect your mine?”
MR. SHYNDIKIT: “Mein Gott! vat you vant to insbect for?”
Queensland, and his pig-tail turned towards
the setting sUn.
It was “strict neutrality” in connection
with the N.S.W. police for Broken Hill, and the
fear of a bold progressive (land-tax) policy at next
election, which wrecked the Holder (S.A.)
Ministry. There is a strong Conservative and
National “ Ass.” element in S.A. Assembly which
is likely to vanish next April.
A DREAM OF THE ARGENTINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
well, it s good-bye, lads, for the skipper hails—
We are going across the brine,
And the wind is filling the good ship’s sails
That is bound for the Argentine,
For the verdant plains in the Sunny South,
For the land of corn and wine.
And the North will mourn for the sturdy sons
Who have left her in her need,
The prey of the land-grab syndicate
And the sharks of human breed,
And of them who hold that the slaving-trade
Bits in with the Christian creed.
For the slaver sails to the Southern seas,
And is blessed by the pious band,
While the cheap Hindoo and the vile Chinese
Pour in Crowds on every hand,
And a false and corrupted Government
Is blighting all the land.
For the sturdy white they count too dear,
And they plot his overthrow’;
Iff we fly the field then their plot succeeds
And as slaves our brethren go—
Shall we then like cow-ards shun the fight?
We awake and we thunder “ NO ! ”
The skipper stands on his deck and hails,
And his ship is on the brine,
But in vain the land-breeze fills his sails—
We are not for the Argentine,
For it’s shoulder to shoulder we’re standing now,
And we will not break our line.
R.S.
“Opals and Agates," or "Bartley on
Woman."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If, when in Brisbane, you should see a
carelessly - dressed, face - furrowed, skin - briek-
dusted, lank, kindly-looking old gentleman,
huddled well forward on an ancient grey equine
of drooping style and unpretentious shambling—
the said old gentleman taking no notice of any
person whatsoever, but ambling steadily onwards,
with a loose bridle-rein, legs long in the stirrups,
and a general air of gone-pastness-that old gen-
tleman is Nehemiah Bartley, who has just written
a work under the title “Opals and Agates; or,
Scenes under the Southern Cross and the Magel-
hans ; being Memories of Fifty Years of Australia
and Polynesia.”
• * •
“ Opals and Agates” is, as a title, unique
as the author. It is positively mystifying, until
you find that the gems are dedicated to “ the Girl
Patriots, past and present, of Australasia,” and
you discern at once the poetical compliment paid
to the sex by this preax chevalier. Mr. Bartley
has a zest for lovely woman and springing girl-
hood of all kinds whatsoever, and he choruses the
fact in the beginning, through the middle, and at
the end of the book with a candour that does
credit _to his heart and a catholicity of taste
that is true religion. It is the dominant
note, in fact, of all the author’s side-reflections. In
Graudisbnian language he describes his wanderings
and adventures since ’49, when he entered Aus-
tralasia by way of Hobart, Tas. Generally enter-
taining, profusely anecdotical, replete with quaint
“tips,’’ the book is yet too “diary-ish.” The
author’s confession that it was drawn from a diary
kept for 50 years was quite unnecessary.
• » «
It takes a knotty-minded man to keep a
diary “for long,” and Mr. Bartley, judged by
“Opals and Agates,” is a poetical statistician (are
Coghlan and Hayter listening ?) who, in the
midst of a Bulwerish rhapsody, parenthesises the
exact height to a foot of a mountain (and, by the
way, the exact height of a girl!)—an author
armed with an aneroid and a Tasso, a pick and a
Euclid, a bullock-yoke and a Venus (many of
Her !) The intention of the book seems to be to
contrast modes Australian with vogues English.
Although Mr. Bartley keeps obtruding the fact
that he is English and loyal, yet he generally
awards the palm to Australia. There is no plot
to the work, unless it be to screech out the moral
at all points that our author, though emphatically
a Cockney, admires woman in all her variegations.
In short, the book’s title might less inscrutably
have been “ Bartley on Woman.”
* * »
The Bartleian philosophy seems to be that
a man should love extensively and well. After
stating that statistics tell that there are “on
hand ” at any moment “at least five millions of
beautiful marriageable girls,” and that it would
take any young man 30 years to superintend a
march-past of the lot
Yet, each individual Damon and Chloe elects to go mad
over some one “ bright particular star ” of the other sex,
and he, or she, for the lime being, totally ignores the
claims to admiration of the remaining 4,999,999 can-
didates.
And listen s
A foot is as pretty, in its way, as a face, and possesses
the advantage that it can hear to be stared at, without
growing embarrassed, as the face does, at times; and it,
at all events, is quite Unconscious of its beauty, which is
more than the face always is ; playful, uninteliectua!, and
charming in its restless, unaccountable, floor-tapping
ways, the female foot is, most appropriately, covered with
the skin of that most erratic and playful of all animals,
the kid ; and, in a thoroughbred woman, it is shapely and
imaged at 60, as at 16; hut the same can never he said of
the face, even of the most high-born.
Once more;
Lucy weighed 9st. and was sft. Sin. Laura was 10st.,
sft. sin., and each of them was seven times as long as her
foot, a proof that they were well-proportioned.
* # #
Mr, Bartley’s “ best girl ” is the Tahitian
and consequently he doesn’t describe her too
freely, but of the nude Samoan girls, lie remarks
that “ their magnificent physical health was
attested by their limts and bodies, which, though
they were symmetry itself, were as firm and
elastic, as if carved from cork, or indiarubber.” ! !
From whence he draws a moral against the less
healthy white woman, thus emphasising certain
pro-Kanaka-slavery views enunciated by him in
his preface.
“But the Tahiti and Eimeo girls wer#
admitted to be ‘something more exquisite still.”
From which one deduces the conclusion that Eng
land ought to buy the Society Islands from
France I Now, isn’t this “ rather?”
* * *
Our author never misses any chance oj
mentioning a pretty girl. The wife of a Carolina
Island trader struck his envious fancy thus
“With long eye-lashes, voluptuous form, black
eyes, full of sub-latent amber fire (I never saw
such glorious eyes), and feet barely a span long, a
c °y> jolly girl, a veritable ‘Maitai whahini,’was
our Yankee friend’s Sultana, and, sweet sixteen,
(sly old dog, Lewis).”
* * #
But, there ! it’s woven right through the
carpet, and to be found everywhere in Bartley,
who actually rhapsodises over two Murrumbidgee
gins! “For curly hair, brilliant black eyes, and
pure white teeth, it were hard to beat them.”
Brunton Stephens must write another “Ode.”
But, say, Mr. Bartley, are you really married ?
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
A Melbourne barrister says that the proper
tribunal to decide the question of sanity or in-
sanity of a murderer is the jury who sit upon his
body after execution.
It is related that at a fashionable ball a
young naval officer had been enjoying himself
at supper, and later on found himself tete-a-
tete in an ante-room with the raseinating
younpp wife of a leading citizen, to whom
he _ was making desperate love. His arms
encircled her waist, when she espied her lawful
spouse, evidently in search of her, rapidly ap-
proaching. “Let me go, quick!” cried she, en-
deavouring to disengage herself from the young
fellow. “ What’s your (hie) hurry ?” “My
husband’s coming, and if he sees you he’ll knock
you down.’’ “Then I’m on the ho—horns of a
dil —dilemma. If 1 hold on I shall be knocked
down ; if I let go I shall fall down. I’ll risk it,
and hold on.” And he did—the anxious husband
passing out of sight.
Alex. Brown, M.L.C. (N.S.W.) on the
advantages of flogging :
Half a dozen or a dozen strokes of the lash promptly
and pertinently administered as soon as that decision was
given, and then the lad thrown out amongst his comrades,
that would soon deal with the difficulty.
Also, on the same basis, if a convicted murderer
were promptly hanged, say about ten minutes
after sentence is passed—the hangman could be
waiting beside the dock and the knot could be
fixed under defendant’s ear while the jury was
consulting—and then his dead body were thrown
through the gaol gate into the crowd, that would
soon deal with the other difficulty. Only there is
one thing which wise Brown has forgotten : the
Government should keep the partially-flayed
prisoner's clothes and bounce him out through the
front gate with nothing on but a towel. If the
warning that is writ large on his back is calculated
to do so much good, then it is simply idiotic to let
the great moral lesson be hidden where no one can
see it.
Dear Bulletin, —We had hauled out into
the stream at Newcastle, N.S.W.; the trim-
mers had all left; we were to sail in the morn-
ing. The skipper, a pusillanimous mean-spirited
Dutchman, had broken his promise to allow us to
spend our last night in port ashore. Growls,
threats, and curses filled the fo’e’s’l. Dave, a
hard case, swore that before the voyage was
out he would drop a pulley or a spike from aloft
on the skipper. Harry Finch, the smartest,
merriest fellow aboard, had promised to see Big
Nell (a voluptuous harpy who had got through his
12 months’pay) that evening. “Boys,” said he,
“ I am going to swum it. I must see Nell.
I’ll bring some beer with me when I am coming
back. Keep a good look out, if you hear my hail.”
In vain we tried to dissuade him. A strong
ebb—three knots an hour—was rushing out,
and it was a good half-mile athwart
the current to the wharf. Over the bows he went,
hat, boots, and all, and, with a cheery “ I’m all
right, maties, ” he struck out for the wharf. He
never reached it. Led by a base passion for a
baser woman, he met his fate—a modern Leander
swimming a muddy Hellespont to court the
caresses of an impure Hero. Next day the usual
stolid jury returned a verdict that the deceased,
H. Finch, a hard drinker, had met his death by
drowning in attempting to swim ashore to get a
pint cf colonial beer. —D.
Mr. J. C. Neild, M.P., the distinguished
author of the “ Bill to make people virtuous by
Act of Parliament ” which he calls for short the
“Bill for the Suppression of Vice,” will be in-
terested. as will also b<3 the Sydney Social Purity
Society, in the news that certain ladies of Berlin
have formed themselves into a secret society for
the purpose of watching their husbands' and
punishing unfaithful ones. There are said to be
already 200 members of this dread order, all be-
longing to the higher official and military classes.
They have organised a detective service, and join
personally in the pleasures of the chase. The
Sydney Social Purity Society will learn with com-
placency that one of their own most approved
methods has been adopted by this formidable
body. One lady disguised herself as a needle-
woman, hired a room next to one to which the
suspect was known to resort, and bored a hole
through the partition. This augurs ill for hus-
bands, and is likely to lead to an aggravation of
the common disfigurement of wives’ eyes, inflamed
by weeping and watching. The name of this dark
and dismal society, unillumined by a ray of light,
save such as may stream through key-holes and
gimlet-holes, is the Gchenne Frauenbund. A
superficial acquaintance with high Dutch enables
us to interpret Frauenbund as Women’s League,
but Gehenne is a matter of speculation. Possibly
it signifies a Gehenna of a Women’s-League.


THE BONDI CHURCH SQUABBLE.
*ln opposing the appointment of Mr. Best as your pastor, you are opposing
L the will of God.” —Bishop Smith.
We will now sing the doxology—
Praise Smith from whom all *j
blessings flow." /
/•
<P
v*
JVM
A%<V
&
A v^V
n
Jr
&
&
t*
V?
ST
. I FACTORY GIRLS AT GOVERNMENT
W/y HOUSE.
« About 100 of the factory girls of Sydney were entertained aft
Government House on Saturday afternoon by His Excellency
the Governor and the Countess of Jersey. After tea the girla
passed the time in games and swinging in the grounds,, his Excellency and Lady
Jersey, with their assistants, joining in the pastimes.” —Daily Paper.
Lord Jersey (swfkging a 16-stone factory young person) : “Why it is that WO
of the nobility scramble for these positions is more than I can understand !"
le^ s
v^
Uu r
(oNjßlj)uTlohJ
y„ Jt>
5 ' RP '
Resultof the Military Commission Inquiry boiled
down. A wooden commander of our defences
sent from “ 'Oma " would be better than a ilesh-and-blood one grown on the soil.
TV. Quern no-w insislu that
all of her p'r , ' rs in futurc mUI
be teetotallers.
, Rakpy Maotavish : “ Ah, weel, tlvr i U
tak' th’ pledge, but ye mauna expe-Kt
. ri ,h auld Soosteh chunes on cr,ul«l j
\ water.” /
The officers and crew of H.M.S. Rapid seems to have had a most
delightful cruise lately.
“The ship left Sydney on May 18, called at Queensland ports, and
then made for the Solomon Islands. Samarai, New Guinea, was touched
at en route. Upon arrival in the Solomons, matters were found-to be quiet
generally. Efforts were made to capture several murderers in the group,
but without success, the culprits making further inland, and so eluding
their pursuers. Punishment was, however, inflicted by the Rapid’s people
destroying the villages and plantations of the suspected murderers. Alto-
gether seven villages were destroyed. Some very good curios, were obtained
while the ship was at the islands.” —Daily Paper.
London, Sunday.— The
Emperor William of Ger-
many has celebrated the
birth of his daughter by
liberating 400 females incar-
cerated in the German gaols.
Per Contra —What should'
logically have happened to thp
female felons had it been a boy?
TEE PIBHCAL QUESTION AT WOY-WOT CREEK,
Line-fishing must go 1
AT SYDNEY AND ELSEWHERE.


'' " // f/ %
Afoore. &a//o/vs /m)o /y//LS
/o a 6/yS/o<ss %///& s*-*ann&m vMr*
T J7<> S>3
J9\mwm/io
I / y,»4 r)
" , \ / " / / /- \—
O O /OC 3000 /'S f)<ZS / V
"Cjy- //aooo croc/ .yieeav'X
3 <s>///c. 3 /prof //of> &/o ts o
f 0*(// °f<Z' 7 C O'/(S s O'
Y~/
mt':: r
‘4f\ ✓ ' /-v
//
n*<S or>& A OS'S?
J'O/n &
dnc/ SOrrjtß Actoe.
S YAns/a /- s/sjos?
A/?osr? v Ay f/ 7< ,
S’) an c/ f c oyoyo e/a
a/"'"
/ v^
’ /•y2/ieS' / /| 3 c/<?
at nce 'CO A an.
Ij C <2//g. 0/ cyoon t
' . f
// r<af//e.ur‘ t AA<zjy say
Ala s a /e. g, o/jc/
~ <S .
®oes c/af///y
<£> / '\
MELBOURNE RACING FANCIES.


WEST AUSTRALIA
IS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £lo
Not©.— These allotments are in selected positions
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd,,
309 Pitt-sti-eet, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office;
ST. OF.ORG E’S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
SCIENTIFIC CORRECTION OF DEFECTIVE SIGHT.
« -■ —-—-v*—» —-
IST. Sz, CO.,
{N; liAZAHIS. N. DAVIDSON.]
(By Special Appointment to His Excellency the Marquis of Dufferin, ex-Viceroy and Governor-General of India,)
LONDON, CALCUTTA, 330 COLLINS STREET (MELBOURNE), WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
Have OPENED AN ESTABLISHMENT at
180 Pitt Street, Sydney,
TBADE MARK
REGISTERED
T H IKE system of Sight-testing employed is our own
* invention, Patent No. 4334, and has been uni-
versally admitted, both by Press and Public, to be
absolutely the simplest and most perfect yet dis-
covered for determining all errors of refraction. The
personal experience and practical knowledge has been
gained by many years of study and diligent research.
We remind the public that we are OCULIST-
OPTICIANS ONLY, and always especially desire to see all those who have hitherto found it impossible to obtain suitable Spectacles. We invite
parents to bring their children and have their sight tested. Consultation and advice fkek.
N.B. —This is our ONLY ADDRESS in Sydney, and all New South Wales and Queensland Agents can be supplied from here.
Society
The drollest sight to be seen in Melbourne
is a certain fuddled Crtesus trying to escape the
toils of some sharps who want to lure him on to
hazard, or “poker,” or any other sport at which
he can be relieved of his spare cheques. At these
times the poor man has a tolerably well-defined
idea that he’ll be safe if he can only get home, to
which end he hails a cab. Once aboard the cab
all is well with Joseph, but it has sometimes hap-
pened that the other gentlemen grabbed at him
like so many Potiphar’s wives, and managed to
pull him back by the coat-tails before he got
fairly seated. Then the fine hit bird bad to moult
a feather or two, we suppose.
• # #
The last (and first) bank directors prose-
cuted in Victoria for malversation, were those of
the_ Provincial and Suburban Bank. That insti-
tution was started in Smith-st., Fitzroy, about 20
years ago, as an accommodation for small trades-
men, but it lent money to a big railway contractor
who failed, and the bank came to grief and
liquidation. Amongst the directors was an ex-
Mayor of Collingwood. One of the losers and
Crown witnesses was W. E, Adcock, who has been
in Adelaide gaol for the last four years for “con-
tempt of court.” Chief Justice Stawell presided
at the trial, 12 years ago, and only fined such of
the directors as were found guilty.
A man now in Sydney is biting his lip
hard. Some months ago, in England, his feelings
were carried away by a photo, and letters from his
cousin in the Australian bush. The photo, showed
the cousin on a fine horse, dressed in riding-
breeches, top-boots and cabbage-tree hat, and the
letters told of nuggets of gold, and a glorious life ;
of shooting, and riding, also of wattle, jackasses,
stockwhips, and of sundry mates (mostly Jims).
So he (the recipient) gave up a decent position as
the world now goes and took passage for Australia
only to find his hero cousin installed as general
pipper in a bush pub. with a Chinese cook kicking
him about. He had enough cash left to get back
to Sydney, and is now looking for any employ-
ment at any price. Where the cousin borrowed
the horse from he doesn’t know.
# # *
The latest news concerning the “ New
Australia ” movement (for the emigration of 10,000
Australian bush-workers to South America) is that
the coming Paradise is to be situated on the banks
of the Rio Negro, on the Patagonian border-line,
where the overgrown aborigine can conveniently
howl with his awful voice across the river at the
settlers and otherwise make himself agreeable. The
Negro is a treacherous river with a bar at the mouth
which effectually blocks commerce, and the locality
is used as a penal settlement, chiefly for niggers
and other persons of no account. It is reputed to
be a barren and stony region, haunted by cold
winds, and afflicted with much snow and slush, so
that Don Lane will have to keep his sombrero
dragged well down over his ears in the winter to
protect him from the inclemency of the weather,
and Don Gilberto Casey will be well-advised to
lay in a good supply of thick boots and take his
mackinproof along with him. Also, both these
gentlemen would do well to read up the Spanish
language, and study the manners and customs of
the people among whom they propose to settle. A
high-toned and lofty courtesy is their strong
point. The individual who possesses even a t inge
of Spanish blood will bow eight times on an
average while asking for a light for his cigar, and
the other man will bow eight times while giving
it. They both bow to begin with; then the man
who has the light blows the ash of his own cigar
and hands it over with a bow, and the other
fellow bows, and lights up with it; next, he
returns it with a bow, and the first man
bows also, and, after that, they both bow
promiscuously, and take off their hats several
times, and express a hope that both of them will
live 1000 years. If Don Smith or any other of
the emigrants asks a hidalgo for a gory match, or
if he is asked for a light and responds in Banana-
land fashion by igniting a Incifer on the hinder
regions of his ignoble carcase, there will be trouble
in Argentina. The man who wants to prosper in
South America must be polite. The native in-
variably is ; even if he has choked his wife into a
state, of insensibility he always bows to the servant
while asking her for a jug of water to throw over
the insensible lady and bring her round. Also,
he bows to the lady herself when she comes round.
The Australian doesn’t. He simply leaves her on
the floor.
# * *
The Bulletin would also strongly urge
the “New Australia” people to learn how
to assume a respectful attitude when they see
a priest, or even ten priests. Further, they should
go well supplied with insect-powder. The Pata-
gonian, who will probably come over to see them
when they get settled, wants it badly. No one
knows how this is for he bathes pretty regularly—
he and all the women of his settlement bathe
together, in fact and his habits in this
direction may lead him to get into the local
water-tank. In such a case the best thing
to do is to bow to him and ask him
to do himself the honour to get out,
and then bnv to him again when he is out.
O LORD!
(The curse of.a title; and how snobs are made.)
REGGIE (a nine-year-old): “Auntie, Auntie, Tennyson is
dead.”
AUNTIE (reprovingly): “Lord Tennyson, my child.”
Don Lane and his colleagues ought also to prac*
tise wearing the Spanish cloak, which is a graceful
garment so long as the wearer knows how to cast
the tail of it over his shoulder instead of letting it
trail between his legs in the slush. If they can
take with them a remedy for white ants and
locusts it will be advisable. There are billions of
these insects, and the process of smashing them
with a club on a board has proved altogether
ineffectual. Also, they are urgently advised not
to mash the Argentine maidens too recklessly.
The really high-toned thing to do in these parts
when a man is mashed on a strange girl is to dis-
course sweet music outside her window at night,
but if Dun Lane takes his concertina and sings,
in a hoarse voice, “ We’ve worked eight hours
to day, ” the chances are that the girl may tell her
father, and the old man may come out and bow
ten times to the visitor, and then empty a
Winchester into him.
It is now asserted that Matthew Davies
(knight) has been retaining the services of Purves,
Q.C., since 1887, of Dr. Madden, Topp and
Higgins, since 1890; and of Isaacs, since the
Mercantile Bank collapsed. If these retainers
mean that none of the counsel aforementioned can
appear against Davies it is strange that lie didn’t
engage the whole Bar at once. But there must be
some mistake here. Purves recently told the
Victorian Natives that the Government’s indis-
position to prosecute certain bank directors was
ruining the credit of Victoria. He surely can’t
intend to go back upon that statement with an
impassioned speech to the effect that the prosecu-
tion of Davies is a burning shame !
• # #
The trunks of a new chum were lately
detained in a Wellington (M.L.) hotel as security
for the high-collared one’s unpaid bill. When
they were opened, after many days, they proved
to be full of beads, penny dolls, and brass
jewellery, which he had brought out from ’Ome to
exchange with the natives for land. The “native,”
in the Briton's vocabulary, is the same naked and
simple ass to the end of time, and whenever Bull
hears of an aboriginal anywhere he at once decides
that a penny doll and a brass toe ring are the
things which that aboriginal will swap his soul for.
The versatile “Pr fessur ”
Clampett, while travelling Tas-
mania as a vocalist and pug.,
one night rested at the “ camp ”
kept by one Webb, a noted
joker. The professor’s reputa-
tion as a vocalist having reached
the camp, Webb invited the
nearest road-gang to drop in and
feast their ears on the warbling
of the “ prof.” In the course of
the evening, Webb asked the
guest to sing some songs in the
bar “ among the lads, who never
hear anything up here, you
know.” Clampett sang accord-
ingly. Next morning the de-
parting songster asked for his
bill, which was promptly ren-
dered. A few moments after-
wards the professor handed the
bill back to the astounded
humorist, endorsed ; —“To sing-
ing two songs and entertaining
visitors, 15s. (Webb’s bill was
the same amount.) Reed, set-
tlement by accommodation.”
Webb tried to laugh it off, but
the professor was adamant, and
left at once by the coach.
# # #
Half of the witnesses for
the prosecution of Mrs. Clara
Parker, at Melbourne, declined
to give full evidence, because to
answer certain questions would
“tend to criminate” them. If
there are any men left over after
the financial swindlers have been
jugged, Mrs. Clara will gaol
them. Or, at least, it looks very
like it.
* » #
Tragic gem from Sydney
D.T. And another bullet
tore its way through the flesh of
the prostrate girl, the shot this
time taking effect from the
front.” Ha! But he forgot to
depict how, while “ tearing
through,” &0., the bullet clawed
off great junks with its gory
paws and smeared its own torso
with the ensanguined meat of
its innocent victim. Ha! ha!
Blunderbore the Bloody !
« # •
The Sydney and Melbourne newspaper
press is now being flooded with boy reporters. In
thq “good old days” there was generally one of
these youngsters on each paper, and he was called
“ the junior.” His office was to “do” the subur-
ban courts and be fagged by the seniors. Now,
these sucking geniuses are called by stingy pro-
prietors and managers “cadets,” and instead of
being paid ill a week, the offices may actually get
a premium with them. A boy’s parents might as
well pay Satan to admit him to Sheol.
• • #
Sydney telephone freak. “ Hello ! ”
“ Hello ! ” “ Have you got a good side of Maori-
land bacon ? ” “ What do / know about bacon?
I don’t deal in that kind of meat.” “ Well, all I
know is that I was recommended to you for
bacon.” “ Whom do you think you’ve got bold
of ? ” “g- H “ Why, I’m D——, the
undertaker.”
• « •
Six men were frost-bitten at Newcastle,
N.S.W., last week—while stowing mutton in the
hold of the Duke of Westminster, at a tempera-
ture eight degrees below zero. One had his nose
bitten ; the other five, their hands. Despite this
danger and the extra inconvenience of working in
an Arctic atmosphere, the mutton-stowers receive
only a shilling-an-bour. In previous years they
were paid eighteenpence-an-hour, yet, when com-
bined capital, without warning, decided to reduce
the wage, not the faintest opposition was made
by the Union. The Newcastle Wharf Labourers
Union, however, only includes about one-third of
the total number of labourers ; the others, mostly
called Hans or Antonio, do not believe in the
“ Junion hence its impotence.
# * #
The best up to date :
Pope.— On the 30th September last, at her late resi-
dence, Toorak, Mrs. Harriet Pope, relict of the late
George Pope, England, and daughter of Peter Shaw
Luard, son of Francis l.uard, solicitor, of Chancery-lane,
London ; niece of Colonel Luard, who rendered such dis-
tinguished service in the Peninsular war as to earn the
Peninsular medal, afterwards as adjutant of the 16th
Light Dragoons at Waterloo, where his horse was shot
from under him. In 1834 he obtained a majority, and
served in the staff of Sir Charles Dalbiac, his uncle. On
the Queen’s coronation he was made Brevet Lieutenant-
Colonel, and in the same year he returned to India as
military secretary to Sir Jasper Nicolls, Commander-in-
Chief. On her mother’s side Mrs. Pope was also niece of
the Uev. Dr. Summerville, of Edinburgh, Scotland, and
closely related to Professor Davy, the eminent lecturer on
phrenology ; cousin also of Dr. Tom Davy, London, who
married the niece of Earl Bathurst. Mrs. Pope leaves an
only surviving sister in the person of Mrs. Emma Dunn,
known as a very old and respected resident of Castle-
maine, but now residing with her family at Gourlay*
street, Balaclava.
Marriage item from West Australia
Reynolds—Argles.— On May 16, at Trinity Chimb,
Koehourne, by the Rev. W. Horsfall, Captain James
Reynolds, of Northampton, W.A., late manager of the
Uga Lead mine for Messrs. Blackwood & Co. and Messrs.
Crowther & Mitchell’s lead and copper mines, Nor-
thampton, and present manager of the Whim Creek
Copper mine, son of the late David Reynolds of Cornwall,
England, to Fanny, daughter of Alfred Argles, of Sydney,
mineralogist, mining expert, and mining engineer,' eldest
son of Charles Argles, Esq., barrister-at-law. Queen’s
Court, London; also a nephew of James Slack, of the Slack
family of London,
* # »
TheN.S.W. Department of Public In,strut
tion recently dismissed a pupil-teacher for playing
marbles on a Sunday.
* * #
The head-master of a certain Sydney State
school lately asked his department for a female
assistant teacher. His wife also applied, thus—
“ Please send the plainest girl you have to my
husband.” It is not uncommon for a teacher’s
wife to interview the heads of the department,
and to request them to substitute plain female
assistants for those already at her husband’s
school.
* # *
Question : Clara Parker did not forge
when Millionaire Joe Clarke said she did. There-
fore, Clara Parker did not “perje.” Well, it’s like
this—Who did ?
A domestic left the house of a prominent
Northern white Civil Servant to enter the
maternity ward of the Salvation Army. The
lasses pressed for the name of the author of the
mischief. The girl gave the name of the official,
her master, and he was duly approached for a
subscription. He sent £2 25., but as this was not
thought enough he was again canvassed, and
benevolently subscribed a further <£s ss. When
the little stranger made its appearance it was a
black child, and everybody—so depraved is
modern society—is surprised. That official’s
coachman is as black as night. Kind actions are
often misinterpreted.
* * #
The Sydney Women’s Literary Association
has sent an address of condolence to Lady Tenny-
son. The literary ladies with the undarned stock-
ings feel that they and Tennyson were in the
same line of business, and they mourn for their
fellow litterateur, just as the Chinaman with the
vegetable-basket laments over the failure of the
new loan, and says that what this country wants
is more confidence in commercial circles.
,* # *
The disagreements of Australian juries in
finance cases are becoming monotonous. They
must be attributable either to bewildering sum-
mings-up by the Judge, or to some mysterious
power behind the jury-box.
* • •
A Gippsland bush pub. Time, night.
Scene, tlie “ best ” room in the house. Daughter
of the landlord tum-tumming and screeching at
the piano. Audience, her adorer —a weak-chested
bantam with cash. The twain are disturbed by
the entrance of a stock-rider just about half-
loaded. “Ah,” (/wc) says he, “me name’s
Maguire. Oi’ve a brother a doctor in Queensland,
another a squatter, any amount of money, money
is a mere trifle, and I’m alone in this act j but, by
Jove, Oi’d like to hear the young lady sing”—
(hie). The young lady (experienced in'the ways
of “drunks”) tum-tummed away on the music-
box, never troubling to look around at the in-
truder. Not so her adorer. He took the floor and
in tones of subdued thunder addressed the stock-
rider : “Excuse me, sir, you are intruding here,
Josephus Clarke is looking had,
His tints are red and yellow ;
That Clara P. will drive him mad,
She will indeed, poor fellow 1
A mention of the frisky dame
Makes Joey shake and shiver,
And when he dies they’ll find her name
Endorsed upon his liver.
He either backed her little bill
Or told a little story ;
He’ll give the riddle up until
He flutters off to glory ;
Then, should St. Peter tackle Joe,
The simple truth inviting,
He'll answer, “ How am I to know?
It wasn’t like my writing.”
And Clara, when St. Peter brings
The paper to the matron,
Will shake her head and flap her wings,
And nudge her former patron.
“ Who hacked that bill ? Upon the scene
The Law has dropped a curtain ;
’Twas I, or Joe it may have been —
We never knew for certain.”
JWHAT ALL THE POETS SAID.
“ Lord Tennyson’s dead. It devolves on Me,
To pay him my tribute in poetree.”
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
If this ain’t that, and such ain’t so,
The question we would ask you, brother:
They took her up and let her go,
Now, do you think they’ll take the Other?


ZROSIE^S
LIME JUICE COI!DIAL
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
T H E H B 8 T DRINK BOR A L L.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sol«l l*y a'l Storekeepers, etc.
Ornkrat. Aoknts:
JULES REWARD «9c CO,,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHM A, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of at!
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 21,
DEAF.—Gentleman cured of deafness of
fifteen years’ duration. Description sent to any
sufferer. Bowen, 358 Collins-street, Melbourne.
For more than 10 years, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
has been successfully prescribed in eases of
consumption. This medicine always affords great
relief in pulmonary diseases; Ask your druggist
for it.
PEMELL’S
WH BAT
MEAL.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £?> 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“SPECTACLES! their Use, when Required,
siud how to Purchase,”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should he
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of Which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, tree of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
4f>3, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ahd, what’s more, this young lady sings only in
the presence of select society !” “Ah ” (Ate) said
the intruder, does she ? Er-then I (hie) pre -
sunle you ve never heard her . Curtain.
# # #
Mr Leonnld Yates <ini-e n NSW PM
V 1 ' Leopold. I cites, OIICC d IV.o. yV. ± .ivi.,
now sports a cockade in his servants hats. His
(J-spring carriage is a feature of Hyde Park,
Loudon, and fills his less fortunate friends with
envy and other bad feelings denounced in the
Talmud
# # #
a, -it i- , , „ „ „ A
A lurid lime-light on German sausage. A
butcher belonging to South Melbourne was
charged recently with having on his premises the
black, damp, flabby carcase of a bullock which
had evidently died from old age and long-standing
disease. The flesh-dealer s defence was that it
was absolutely necessary to have such horrors on
hand because they made the best German
sausage.” He was fined all the same, and the
Bench abjured sausage right there. A total
sausage abstinence society is a thing that seems to
be much wanted in Australia.
# # *
General Tujloch, President of the N.S.W.
t, c ri ’ .
Defence Commission to witness i “ What is the
duty of the guard (30 men in all—six at a time) at
Government House? ’ “The ordinary routine.”
“Would not a policeman do far better?” Bias-
phemy !
Dear Bulletin,-—Your correspondent,
“ Crow-eater,” who writes re Adelaide Botanical
Gardens, has much regard for the late Dr. Schoiti-
burgk, but very little knowledge of the Gardens.
They never contained an avenue of gums, either
stately or otherwise, so it is needless to say that
nobody rooted it up. Fifteen years ago there
were more flowers in the gardens than there are
now, but that only proves my contention that Dr;
Schomburgk’s neglect in the last decade of his life
had let a paradise degenerate into a tangled
Wilderness. Palm-house, conservatories, fourt-
tains, and Victoria Regia house were all in shock-
ing dis repair, while the herbarium was also up-
side down when the present director took charge;
' ours, X.
A certain highly respect-
able temperance restaurant
of Sydney one that for-
bids its waitresses flirting
on pain of instant dismissal
—supplies the following :
An ordinarily good-looking
waitress receives on an aver-
age three invitations per
day for the theatre; six in-
vitations to come for a drive
or a walk in the evening.
The restaurant is open on
Sunday for tea, and on that
evening the average number
of offers “ to wait outside ”
is 15. Invitations for the
theatre come almost wholly
from young bachelors; re-
quests to “meet me alone”
come in nine cases out of
ten from elderly men.
# # *
It is rumoured that at
least one member of a Syd-
ney family of good social
position has developed
leprosy, and it is certain
that the inmates, white and
coloured, of the Little Bay
leper-station (an institution
described some months ago
in a Bulletin article which
has set the Sydney Sunday
papers writing nothing but
leper “copy ”) are increasing
rapidly. It is also certain
that the N. S. W. health
officials have under obser-
vation as suspected lepers
more whites than they like
to admit. It is likewise a
fact that the Kanaka-labour
curse is extending to the
N. S. W. sugar - plantations.
When Federal Australia has
its Molokai with 1000 doomed
inmates it will be able to see
the price it pays for consort-
ing with the “cheap” Orien-
tal races and the .£6-a-year
black trash from the South
Seas.
The other day a man at North Sydney?
who feared to punish his troublesome horse while
mounted, tied it up to a lamp-post and threw
blue-metal at it from a distance of about 20 paces.
Noble animal!
* 9 *
A man who broke his leg in a paddock
near Hawera (M.L.), writes to* the papers to say
that he shouted “ help ” for four hours and 1 nobody
came near him, but when he started to yell
“ murder,” instead, about six people were on the
spot in ten minutes. Nobody wants to help any-
body, but everybody wants to see a murder.
# # #
“ Lucen daces mdt perdere finis dementat.”
This is a slab of Sydney Sunday Times Latin.
#' 9 *
A Sydney architect recently advertised for
a draftsman. One of the unsuccessful appli-
cations :
Sir,—ln answer to your advt. I beg to offer my services
as a distinct profession in the interpretation of the works
of others, with intelligence and aptitude for this parti-
cular work. In this specialism of skill entrusted to me it
will be done minutely, and full analysis, and, I venture to
hope, with integrity, impartiality, just performance in
the spirit of the basis of the contract, which is tenable, to
be regarded with confidence for upright dealing, recti-
tude, and ability ; whose function is to gain a consensus
of opinion, an arbiter who has a knowledge of the work.
In soliciting your consideration, I trust, and hope, to
iscure your approval.—Yours, &0., ——.
At a recent very select Melbourne chavoo
afc the expense of Tom, Dick, and Harry
His Excellency the Governor responded to the toast of
his health, proposed in eulogistic terms by the chairman.
Lord Hopetoun said Victoria was apparently satisfied at
having taken i the “ loyal side ” some ye, ars ago en the
question of the selection of Governors and expressed a
preference for the appointment of Her Majesty’s repre-
sentatives by Her Majesty and Her advisers rather than
Lave the Governor elected So long as Victoria consented
« receive a Governor so chosen, he (Lord Hopetoun) was
confident the most desirable man would be selected.
Bachelor Baronet Ogle has been appointed
commander of H.M.S. Rapid on the Australian
station. Joy !if he only acts up to his name.
# # #
At the trial of J. A, Mansfield, secretary
to the Victorian Seamen’s Union, for inducing
sailors to leave their ship, the justices on the Mel-
bourne District Bench included secretary Bennett
and ex-president Harwood (of the Trades Hall),
THE DAILY JANUS.
GOOD OLD MAN (from the country) : “Give me an evening paper,
my boy.”
BOY: “Yes, sir. Here you are, sir—all the winners."
G.O.M. (testily) : “Haven’t you a paper without any racing news
in it?”
BOY: “No, sir. There’s the EKKER, it has the racin' on one
side, but it has a sermon on the other.”
(EKKER accepted.)
and Baronet Baillie, brother-in-law of Eire-low
Price. Fancy three such people agreeing upon
any subject under Heaven 1
# # •
The Governor of New Caledonia leaves
next month for France. The reasons for his conge
are unknown, as he is most popular at Noumea.
# * *
One day, last week, a book-vendor sold 37
copies of Zola’s “Nana ” in Sydney Lands office.
* # #
Judge Boucaut (of S.A., who is on his
travels): “ The Scotch accent of a pretty little
girl is charming.” Certainly. And the Irish
accent of a pretty little girl is most fascinating.
And the Welsh accent of a pretty little girl is
simply enchanting. But what of the ugly big
girl, O Boucaut, the not-blind ?
9*9
At a recent Glenelg (S.A.) aquatic meet-
ing. Speaker rises; “Mr. Chairman and gentle-
men ” Interrupter: “Hear, hear; a very
proper distinction.” Then’
9 9*
The Chicago' (U.S.A.) Fair has been’
“dedicated” by the clergy. Dedicated to what?
Wooden nutmegs ?
* * *
The first Sydney divorce-case this term
was —Love v. Love. A misprint, we presume, for
Love v. Marriage.
* * *
Twenty-five thousand 1 golden sovereigns
followed the late Way Key to China. Sydney
could spare the corpse, but not the corpse’s
tailings.
An effective way of knocking the poetry
out of a spoony couple is that lately practised by
certain misguided Sydney youths who run a brush
with some sticky mixture thereon along all the
park seats where lovers are wont to sit and cuddle
of an evening.
* # #
The Eton jackets now so fashionable with
ladies are vulgarly known as “freezers.”
* * #
It is a not uncommon practice among
certain leading Sydney houses to commission
the auctioneer conducting the sale of some “ big ”
man’s household goods to add to the list part of
their stock, somewhat soiled for the occasion. A
smart Hebrew broker some time ago turned up at
one establishment with articles he had just bought
to have them cleaned up, and learned that he had
paid <£3o for what he might have bought there
for £26.
* * *
The masher collar was invented by a mail
Who attempted suicide by cutting his throat. He
adopted the stiff, starched stand-up to hide the
Scar that encircled his neck.
# * *
A certain Anglican parson employed at
a big Southern cemetery recently represented to
the authorities that all the Protestafit pauper
O. D.’s (professional term for corpses of “other
denominations ”) are handed over to the Wesleyan
crow, who scoops all the fees appertaining to the
burial thereof, which he urged was wrong, and he
asked for a share. He was referred to the burial
contractor who is supposed to “ sling in ” a clergy-
man with the coffin and other mummeries of
Christian burial.
# • #
Primate Smith writes the Bondi (Sydney)
Anglican congregation that if they insist upon
refusing to accept as their pastor the clergyman
he has been pleased to send them, they will be
“striving against the will of God.” Surely the
Deity’s name isn’t Smith !
m m 9
It is currently reported that, during the
summer months, the elite of Darlinghurst prison
will only play lawn-tennis in the afternoon, after
hard labour, commencing play at five o’clock.
* # #
S.A. police are to have bicycles instead of
horses. Erom observations on the spot, we are
led to believe that go-carts would better suit the
situation.
# # #
A deputation of girls waited on Minister
of Defence Davis (Vic.), complaining that they
had been thrown out of work by the closing of the
local ammunition-factory. The Minister was
unctuously sympathetic, but deplored the fact
that the girls preferred this work in town to the
healthy surroundings of the country, and advised
them to leave the factories and take domestic ser-
vice. “Become servants!” was the answer. “No
fear. We wouldn’t be our own missuses then and
knockoff at fixed hours.” “Eight hours” is a
man’s day’s work. Who will blame girls for ob-
jecting to work sixteen, under the control of a
woman ?
* * *
‘Surely,” wails a Melbourne paper, “it
is a sign of hard times when the burglars enter
the churches in quest of booty?” Not at all.
It’s merely a sign of the spread of intelligent dis-
crimination among the criminal classes.
* # *
The first act of importance on the part of
the initial batch of “ free-labourers,” on arriving
at Broken Hill, was to pick the pockets of the
police engaged guarding them.
* * *
As a result of the Vic. Minister of Defence
having stopped free railway riding to uniformed
militia-men, the tolling, vociferous, uniformed
larrikin is ho longer a special feature of the
Bourke-street crowd on Saturday nights.
The Australasian Institute of Journalists
is now open to women.
« « •
“ In Memoriam ” from Melbourne :
Art thou in Heaven, or where can you be?
Father, dear father, we still think of thee.
It was meant in kindness* no doubt, but the family
that feels so doubtful as all that as to the old man’s
hereafter should keep quiet.
* # #
“Nine English lobsters have been im-
ported alive by the lonic for the Otago (M.L.)
Acclimatisation Society.” This beastly country
will soon be worth living in.
# # •
A story of exaggerated honesty is told by
Geo. Green Well, of Toora (Vic.). While in busi-
ness at Grassy Gully diggings, he had given credit
to the extent of <£l2 to one Smith. Two years
latet he heard of a corresponding Smith working
irt a claim 15 miles away, and on Tuesday night
he posted him the bill. At 2.30 a.m. on Thursday,
Smith knocked at Greenwell’s door. He said that
his father was the debtor, that the old man had
been drowned at Adelaide a year before, that he
had been until then ignorant of the debt, and that
he had brought the money. That man had
come out with the midnight shi ft, and then walked
15 miles along a bush-track to pay his dead father’s
■debt.
It is on the cards (says our London corres-
pondent) that Phil. Mennell’s last journalistic
venture, the Australian Mail —which has made
good headway—will be amalgamated with the
British Australasian.
“ The Dean of St. Paul’s (London) recently
expressed the opinion that the objection to Hogging
hardened criminals was a superstition,” Pooh 1
A dean is a superstition.
One of the most humorously-pathetic
gydney sighfcs j ust now is a poor crank who kneels
and reverently crosses himself whenever he comes
to a liquor advertisement on the hoardings.
x
A COMING EXPOSITION—“CHICAGO.”
ẅ
Victorians who took the loyal side,
Here’s proof your instincts were both high and
true
In letting gracious Majesty decide
Who was the proper man to govern you.
Ye judged the Right Divine could scarcely fail
To pick of all men born the very pearl,
And ye were right—she sent by early mail
That “ most desirable ” young man, the Earl.
He’s thin and fragile, and he’s “ sickled o’er ”
With pallid casts, not all by vigils wrought.
But simply showing that his azure gore
Don’t circulate as freely as it ought;
His statesmanship’s a quantity unknown,
His speech afflicts the country like a ban.
But ye can rest content for he has shown
He is a most desirable young man.
Ye might have wished for brains, and yearned to
place
A strong mart at the head of your affairs,
To have a man of Austral choice and race
To bear the load of presidential cares,
But bravely drove ye all such treason hence,
And all the nations of the earth agree
That though you’ve lost your claim to common
sense
You have preserved your noble loya \teei
OVER.
Stir not dead ashes, darling, let them lie
(I call you sweet names still, hypocrite I)
There’s not an ember underneath, I know,
Pan till ydu break your heart —there is no flow.
Let them lie still—wise is this wish of mine;
Better a cold, grey memory than no sign ;
Vehement prayers but scatter far and wide
These fluttering ghosts of love that lived—and died.
Fire does not leap, dear, for a fretful word.
Even your kisses leave my pulse unstirred ;
If a dead woman lay there fn cold rest
You were a fool to warm her on your breast.
INA M. W.


Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Bakin# Powder.
At Forest Lodge you can buy GN U N
Darlings.
Advt. from a N.S.W, country paper :
WANTIiD.-A GOOD GIRL. Apply, Mrs. ,
’’ Narrabri.
Bro# 5
V.
Vfe
rc;>
SATIN
POLISH
LADIES’
SHOES.
■SP
is®
NUI fS
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
B. F. BROWN <St CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M’fgg.
w
CATALOGUES FREE
to any address in Australasia. Send for Catalogue
before purchasing Guns, Rifles, or Revolvers
elsewhere; best and cheapest guns in Australasia;
English prices. All goods carriage paid to any
address in any of the Colonies.
Address—THE BRITISH GUN CO.,
34 QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 25, 1892.
f ITENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.ni. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tocumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
Erection of Police Quarters, Warialda
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Moulainein
Additions, Police Station, Nimitybelle
Repairs, &c., Police Barracks and Lockup. Gul-
. gong
Bridge, Khoribakh Creek, road Krambach to
Bullock Wharf
Bridge, No. 1, Hillas Creek, road Gundagai to
Tarcutta, near Mundarlo
Bridge No. 2, Hillas Creek, road Gundagai to
Tarcutta, near Mundarlo
Bridge, Duck Creek, at Murrawombie
Repairs, &c., Court House and Lookup, Braid-
wood
Erection,of Station Buildings at Kiama, Railway
Kiatna to Nowra
Repairs, &c., Courthouse, Cowra
Erection of Court and Watch House, Katoomba
Bridge, Gil Gil Creek, road Moree to Mungundi
Additions Post and Telegraph Office, Burrowa
Wood-blocking part of Workshop, Garden
Island
New Wharf, and Altering approach at Wauchope,
Hastings River
Erection of Cottage at Potts Hill Reservoir
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lisrnore to Hang-
ing Rock, at Walsh’s Crossing.
Bridge, Dartbrook Creek, road Scone to Merriwa
Concrete Walls for Bridge, Doughboy Creek,
road Tarrago to Bra id wood
Manufacture, &c., of Thirty-seven Coils of Gal-
vanised Crucible Steel Wire Rope
Bridge, Cuttagai Lake, road Bega to Bermagui
Erection of Pig and Calf Pens, Woolgoolga and
Goff's Harbour
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30.
Bridge, Macquarie River, at Gin Gin, road
Trangie to Collie
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bullallaba, road
Braid wood to Cooma
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Amusements.
T3T E R MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
SATURDAY NEXT (October 29) SATURDAY NEXT
will be produced, by special arrangement
with Mr. J. C. Williamson,
“the SILVER KING.”
Mr. Geo. Rignold as Wilfred Denver.
Assisted by an Exceptionally Powerful Cast.
I PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
QOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUAL
PROPRIETOR .. .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
Every Sunday Afternoon
* High >class and Enjoyable Concert. *
Quadrille Assembly every Wednesday Afternoon.
'The Marble Swimming Baths now Open,
Ladies from 10 till 2 Daily.
IJIHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
All Bail way Travelling.
Apply for particulars, cable address—“OPEßA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. B.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
'sfe
Kn sg
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
: Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M<hn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
grand iro^
4
* •
■
MELBODRNfI,
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKEE, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
Shipping.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
J IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
| Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran -
cisco, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, <£s2 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
f'IOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE. KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the ,Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English interpreter's meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Ag^nt.
Furniture, etc.
For bedsteads, children’s cots,
Spring Mattresses and Bedding.
GO TO
LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
FOR Austrian, American and Cane CHAIRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and Balcony Seats;
for Camp Folding Bedsteads, with Woven Wire
Spring Mattresses.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
FOR CARPETS, LIN FLOOR-
CLOTHS, Rugs, Mats, Blinds, Matting
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Materials, Tapestries,
Plushes, Gimps and Cords, etc.
GO TO
LAWLER’S.
For toilet sets, china, glass-
ware, Dinner and Tea Sets, Cups and
Saucers, Cruets. Cutlery and Plated-ware, Mangles,
Copper Boilers and Stoves.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
6OB George-street.
FOR HALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing Room Furniture,
Bedroom and Kitchen Furniture,
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
Write for Estimates.
JOHN LAWLER and SONS
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinetmakers,
608 GEORGE STREET. Established 1860.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES Free by
poston application addressed to the Head Office of
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
608 George-street.
ŵ
Music.
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. (id., steel reeds, 215., and 235. fid.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. To be obtained through
any music-seller or stationer in Australia, or direct from
J. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-street. Cheapest Music
Warehouse in Australia. Illustrated catalogues and par-
ticulars posted FREE.
Sporting.
Y 1
CTO RI A RACING
CUP WEEK.
CLUB.
DERBY DAY
CUP DAY
OAKS DAY
STEEPLECHASE DAY
Oct, 2!)tli
Nov. Ist
Nov. 3rd
Nov, sth
■£looo added to the MARIBYRNONG PLATE ;
£lOOO to the DERBY ; and £lO,OOO to the
CUP.
Total Added Money for the Week, £20,350 and
Trophy.
Aeooinraodalion for thousands more than last year. The
conveniences for the comfort of visitors to Flemington
now surpass anything in the world.
Return Tickets at HOLIDAY EXCURSION
FARES issued from 24th October till sth November,
available for return till 14th November.
H. BYRON MOORE, Secretary.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
MELBOURNE CUP Ist NOVEMBER.
At 5 each. (100,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10,000: Second, 2500; Third, 1500; S (d), 2000 ;
N S (d), 2500 ;20 at 100, 2000; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 20 at 20,
400 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
THE SUMMER CUP—26th DECEMBER.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
TATTERSALL’S CUP —2nd JANUARY.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
State amount enclosed, and two stamped-addressed
envelopes with application one for receipt and the
other for result. Register your letters. Stamps will be
received if 5 per cent, exchange is added wiih f.ll amount.
Address: GALA, c.o. 11. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Printed circulars free.
JATTEES A L L’S
MELBOXTRSTB OXJJT*.
Run at Flemington, November 1, 1893,
50,000 al 10 50,000
MELBOURNE CUP.
Run al Flemington, November 1, 1892.
100,000 at so 100,000
Be sure and register yonr letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till yen receive our reply.
[W* Address—“ TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersail’s Hotel, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
BEDE.
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER.
OVER 20 YEARS before the PUBLIC of NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOUTH WALES
IStL E Xj IB O XT R MT El O XJ P.
20 Each —20,000 SO Each
FIRST, 8000; SECOND, 2000; THIRD, 1000 ; 8. (divided), 1500; N.B. (divided', 2000; 5 at 100 each, 500 ; 30 at 50
each, 1500 ;75at 20 each, 1500 ; 200 at 10 each, 2000. 310—extra- 310.
IVE ELBOURKTE CUP.
lO Each —25,000 —XO Each
first, 5000; SECOND, 1500 ; THIRD, 1000 : S. (divided), 1000 ; N.S. (divided), low; 20 at 50 each, 1000 ;25 at 20
each, 500 ; 100 at 10 each, 1100 ; 100 at 5 each, 500. 245-extra - 245.
Be sure and register your letters and lake care of the P.O. receipt till you receive our reply. Thanking you
for past patronage and trusting for continuance of your support. Programme* Sent on Application.
Address —“ ADAJH BFDK,” Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Sydney.
•3*
3*
r>f>
f > 6p^A \ \U^-v,. 11
Vfi
AO-
5*Y
lull
|sJ\i.ways|he* Best
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of KTew South Wales.
):(
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs, KILMUNTSXEft . .. Proprietress,
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from I Os. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs.
TATTERSALL’S MELBOURNE CUP.
rtxrixr ett
100,000 AT 20 100,000
FLEMmaTOKT, Ist KTOVBMBBR,
BE iSUKE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS, AND TAKE CARE OF
THE P.U. RECEIPT TILL YOU GET OUR REPLY.
1892.
50,000 AT 10 50,000
Adders—“ TATTEBSAIiL," care of Gkoroe Adams, Tattersall's Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.VA
Tennyson is the only great poet who has ;
been productive at 80. \
John Voice was arrested for uttering iiv
Melbourne last Thursday.
West Australian jarrah has been success-
fully used for wood-paving at Brixton, London.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Nothing is wasted on some Australian
cattle-stations. Tuberculous cattle are given as
food to pigs.
The larrikin has at least one originality.
When walking or running his only movement
from shoulder to fingers is in the joint of his wrist,
the hands swinging in a backward direction. You
can tell him a mile off.
Cabled that Arnold White says there are
half-a-million unemployed in London. Now
London does not contain over say 700,000 able-
bodied men. White must surely count in the
rich unemployed—and a lot of others.


PARAMO
Is a splendid medicine for complaints of the
Liver and Kidneys.
MARUPA
Cures Asthma, Coughs, and all Bronchial
Affections.
natanata
Prevents and cures Diarrhoea, Vomiting and
General Sickness, whilst
KARANA
Is a most excellent Tonic, giving splendid tone to
the Stomach.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Miscellaneous.
ANDREW USHER_&_CO.’S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under: —
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VATTBD GLENLIVET WHISKY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve."
BLAKE A KltldALL, Solicitors,
120 WILLIAM-ST., MELB
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere-
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN S SWEET)
IL
wk
Lancet.
U j/L
St. John’s Works, London W.C.
e-.
i ora
a
MAW?
' /SI 2
acra ega
40,000 in Use. Record, 179 words per minnto.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent, person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 first-clsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY: J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizaheth-st ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J. Walch & Sons.
MASON BROTHERS
(limited),
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the Trade and Wholesale
buyers only,
Ironmongery A General Hardware,
GLASS, CHINA, and EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEERS, & SPIRITS,
and
GENERAL BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for—LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
OLD BRANDIES.
#3P“ J. T. GAYEN’S Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN & CO.’S Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S “ Pelican ” Stout.
“THE ROYAL EDINBURGH CASTLE”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKIES.
GROTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Oils,Colours a Paii
wall Papers from si
P/M
Tj? BathurstSt.
KUJ
Professor Paul.
Health, Strength and Manhood Eestored!
Cure for all. A thorough Systematic and Scientific Cure
for £l. Sent to any address. Three months' supply.
New Life & Energy
K3T
ẁ
Vitality Restored
Nervous, Mental and Physical Debility, Lost Manhood,
Rheumatism, Gout, Chronic and Wasting Diseases, the
result of youthful indiscretions, etc., permanently cured.
Time-honoured and reliable remedy. Used by eminent
men throughout the world with success. Personally, I
have cured thousands. Where it fails cure is hopeless!
Acknowledged great Nerve and Brain Tonic—one trial will
suffice. Sample Box (month’s supply), 7/6. £l-note or
stamps. Register letters. Prof. PAUL, Specialist,
Box 1081 G.P.0., SYDNEY. tST’ Late Acting-Chief
Consulting Physician to the Australian Medical and
Surgical Infirmary. Twenty Years’ experience. Hun-
dreds of references. Interviews arranged. Advice and
instructions free.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
GOLD E N S H A N T Y.
Relief from Cough in lO Minutes.
Mai/mans *
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, GOUGHS
COLDS, HOARSENESS, k.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE.
Immediately it is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.R. Office, Belled,■, On. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.—July, 1891.
' Sold by all Chemists at Is. lid. and 2s. 9d.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents: —Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Book of Mature.
ẃ
Book of 3XTature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty-
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law' of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6. Dancing without a master—Ball-
room Guide and Self-instructor, by Prof, Peltzer, 1/3.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmast ,r, or How r to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new' work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every- man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
THAT HORRID PIMPLE
Spoils, to an alarming extent, your pretty Face.
That Hideous Freckle and Oily Skin
Mar your Loveliness.
WHY DO YOU KEEP THEM?
Are you not most thoroughly convinced ? Has not the
been sufficiently strong ?
TAG you not know- positively that Anna Ruppert’s
J / Celebrated Skin Tonic will remove these blem-
ishes, that it surely cures acne, eczema, oilyness, &0.,
and that it will give you a fresh, firm, healthy skin, that
it will not hurt a child’s complexion, that it is not powder
or paint, but a mild, beneficial tonic. Price 10s. 6d. per
bottle; 3 bottles at one time (usually required) 255.
Postage to Australia: One bottle, 25.; 3 bottles, ss.
Complete course of Remedies Specially prepared for the
Australian Climate, £3 35., including postage. Anna
Ruppert’s “ New Valuable Book of Beauty,” sent to any
address free for 2d. in stamps. Anna Ruppert’s New
American Long-waisted Corset, already used by
nobility', durable, excellent for figure, from 12s. 6d.
Choice perfumes. Manicure and Chiropody, best artists’
scientific work. Full line of Manicure Instruments and
Cases for beautifying hands and nails. No charge for con-
sultation by letter or in person. Advice cheerfully given.
Address
153 Strand, Sydney.
Head Office, 89 Regent Street, London : also, Paris,
Barcelona, &c.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
ICoiighl and llwhanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
ANNA RUPPERT,
SYDNEY AGENT
MISS W. J. ROBINSON
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
42S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
IOPULAR WATCHES AT POPULAR
PRICES!
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an enviable reputa-
tion as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and IN-
EXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
SERIES ‘ E,’ the old long--winding- Pioneer,
and SERIES ‘J’ (for Gents) and ‘L’ (for Ladies),
the time-tried short-winding Wonders, are still to
be obtained at popular prices within the means of
all.
SERIES ‘K,’ THE NEW GENTLEMEN’S
WATERBURY, a splendid watch fitted with all
the most modern improvements. Prices—Nickel,
305., Sterling Silver 455., Rolled Gold 675. 6d.
SERIES ‘N,’ THE NEW LADIES’ WATER-
BURY, a perfect little Gem. Prices—Nickel
255., Sterling Silver 405., Rolled Gold 555.
Mr. G. Evans, watchmaker, Howick-street,
Bathurst, writes under date 15th June, 1892 : “I
have carefully examined the Waterbury Watches,
and find them splendidly finished, especially the
Gold-cased Series ‘K’; and I am of the opinion
that they are the grandest watches made in the
world for the money. I always wear one of the
Gold Series ‘K,’ and it keeps the very best of
time.”
Waterbury Watch Co.’s
Repair Depot,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Note the Address.
COLGATE’S CASHMERE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap is made with the utmost care from
materials selected with the
GREATEST REGARD FOR PURITY,
And the soothing and beneficial effect which they
impart to the skin and the complexion.
FIFTY PER CENT.
of the comfort of shaving depends on the soap used
Try COLGATE’S DEMULCENT SHAVING
SOAP.
For the handkerchief, no preparation can com
pare with
CASHMERE BOUQUET PERFUME.
Madame Sara Bernhardt writes : “ Colgate’s
Soaps and Perfumes are Exquisite.”
Miss Myra Kemble, writing of Colgate’s Cash-
mere Bouquet, says: “It is the most deliciouf
perfume in the world, and when used in conjunc-
tion with Cashmere Bouquet Toilet Soap is per-
fection itself.”
The name and trade-mark of Colgate and Co,
on each article assures purchasers of superior and
uniform quality. Their various exhibits obtained
the HIGHEST AWARDS at London, 1887 ;
Newcastle, 18'7 ; Ostend, 1888 ; and
GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1889,
Sold by all leading chemists and perfumers.
Salvation Army safety-matches are now
sold in Australia.
From Walgett (N.S.W ) News :
On last Thursday night a large black snake was killed
by Mr. \V. Hayes. This is early in the year for our reptil-
lian kin to be on the warpath.
Our “ reptillian kin !”
The “ Jerusalem Coffee House,” which in
olden times used to be the great rendezvous for
Australians in London, after many vicissitudes
appears to be in a fair way to become once more a
kind of “Colonial Exchange.” The time-honoured
quarters in Cowper’s Court have been given up,
and the affair has been taken over by a limited
liability co., new premises have been secured in
Billiter-street, E. 0., and there is every probability
of the “New Jerusalem” achieving the success
the promoters anticipate. But merchant princes
no longer meet “ on Change ” to discuss business
and make bargains, and no more melancholy sight
presents itself in London to-day than the Royal
Exchange, the great quadrangle of which is now
deserted by city men and serves merely as a short
cut from Cornhill to Thread needle-street. One by
one the glories of the “ City ” are departing. The
old order changeth and giveth place to the new,
and the famous spot where so many adventures
were plotted, so many voyages of discovery
planned, where the Old East India Company
was first conceived, and where in more recent
times the Rothschilds and other giants of finance
used to meet every day after lunch to discuss the
affairs of the world is now given over to a needy
out-at-elbows lot of people.
Marupa Still Gaining
Ground.
A WELL-KNOWN COMMERCIAL GENTLEMAN
GIVES HIS TESTIMONY.
Birmingham, England,
January 3rd. 1892.
Mr. O. I. Kempthorne.
Dear Sir, —You will remember the bad cold and
tore throat I had when leaving New Zealand for
England. Well, thanks to that “Maori stuff”
you gave me, I got all right before reaching the
Bluff.
I really must congratulate you on having
dropped on such a good thing. Its effect on me
was wonderful, and I doctored several people on
the steamer, who were suffering with influenza,
with the Marupa, and in each case I put them
right in no time.
I am sorry to say that I have not a drop left,
but shall get you to give me a supply when I
return to New Zealand : and I never intend doing
without it in future. When my throat has been
bad, and I have had to sing, I took Marupa, and
consider it a splendid thing for anyone with a
voice.
I wish you good luck with it, but the thing is
bound to sell well.
Yours very truly,
A. J. Chamberlin.
Lyell, May 27, 1892,
Messrs. Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.,
Wellington.
Gentlemen, —I am pleased to inform you that I
nave sold all the Marupa you sent me, and more
pleased to tell you that not in one single instance
has it failed to give relief, or, to put it in the
words of a highly respectable lady of this town,
whose husband had not had one hour’s sleep for
several nights, notwithstanding several prescrip-
tions from doctors, which gave no relief. The
Irst teaspoonful of Marupa he took acted like
magic, giving immediate relief, and he went to
sleep, and had a comfortable night’s rest, a thing
unknown to him for the last month.
Please send six dozen Marupa at first oppor-
tunity, and oblige.
Yours faithfully,
J. Fennell.
A TRIP UP THE WANGANUI RIVER,
From the Otago Witness.
When we reached Hruharama (Jerusalem) we
went ashore to pay our respects to Sister Mary
Joseph, whose name and fame have recently been
blazoned forth in the chemists’ shops and advertis-
ing columns of the newspapers of the Colony.
We found the old lady at home dispensing
medicinal aid to a number of waiting Natives
in front of the mission buildings, where there
is a level grassy space overshadowed by well-
grown oaks of no inconsiderable size. We
found her a pleasant, shrewd, old French-
woman, speaking English with a slight
foreign accent, and she received us graciously.
Asking us to excuse her for a few minutes, she
attended to the wants of the waiting Maoris, and
then invited us to inspect the schoolroom. She
informed us that it was a difficult matter to do
much with the Maori children, as they are sub-
jected to little, if any, parental control, being free
to go to school or run wild as they list, and they
choose the latter alternative —as I fear most child-
ren, whether white or dusky, would if left to their
own sweet will. The good sisters, of whom there
are eight, have some half-dozen white children of
vicious parents as the nucleus of their school, and
we saw these children at play in the sunshine,
looking healthy and happy. The old lady in-
formed us that progress was rather slow, but that
they had influenced the Maoris for good. A neat
little church, with a lofty, tapering spire, stands
on an elevation above the village, forming a
pleasing feature in the landscape, and is a monu-
ment to the self-denying labours of the sisterhood
by means of which the funds have been recently
provided for its erection, the former church having
been burnt down not long ago. Besides the nuns
there is a missionary priest resident here, who
occasionally visits Ranana, where there is also a
little church. The rev. father has also another
flock besides his dusky parishioners, as he owns
700 acres of land, which he has acquired from the
natives, and which has been cleared of bush and
sown down in English grass. Sister Mary
hospitably presented us_ with some enormous
and delicious apples, besides a glass of raspberry
vinegar and water.
CURIOUS FACTS
ABOUT FORSES
JIBBING NOT A VICE.
Mayhew, the well-known authority on horses,
gays: “Jibbing is not a vice, but a nervous dis-
order—a sort of equine epilepsy. A word spoken
sharply can summon the attack, which generally
deprives the animal of all power of motion, or
forces it to move in a contrary direction to that
desired. The movements are independent of the
will; and if any person will attentively examine
the countenance of a horse when in the act of
jibbing, the real character of the supposed vice
will be recognised. When jibbing is exhibited, a
spasmodic fit has possession of the frame. It is
useless to flog or inflict other tortures. The attack
will last a certain time, and then, perhaps,
suddenly vanish. No brutality can shorten its
duration, though cruelty may possibly lengthen
the convulsion. The horse should, in such a case,
be allowed to stand quietly, the harness loosened
where tight, and the bridle held to prevent him
bolting, as often happens when a horse regains his
senses after a fit. This form of epilepsy is a
distinct malady, from which a horse seldom
recovers, and it would be an act of humanity to
put the sufferer out of his misery at once.”
What a large percentage of people own horses
and know little or nothing of the nature and ail-
ments of the animal! In the interest of this
patient, willing, dumb servant we think that
veterinary science might well be included in the
list of technical subjects taught in our schools.
Owners of horses should at least be well versed in
the simple ailments of a horse, and know what
remedies to apply. In the meantime, for the
benefit of those unacquainted with the fact, we
may say that for sprains, swollen legs, and the
like, St. Jacobs Oil is a sure and safe remedy,
acting as a certain pain conqueror and healer in
the case of the beast, as it is in that of the human
being. Thousands of proofs have been adduced
of this important fact, of which the following is
one : Mr. Thomas Wade, of 4 Hunt-street, Surry
Hills, writes : I have used St. .Jacobs Oil for ray
horse with capital results. He had one of his
forelegs swelled to a great size, and was very lame.
I was advised to try St. Jacobs Oil for it and did
so. I bought two bottles, but one was sufficient;
the first application brought down the swelling,
and the leg was completely cured in a very short
time.


ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS.
<>♦»»»»»»♦<»♦<>♦»»»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DISCOVERED anc % REGISTERED toy
Herr
>BOTAHtST_
f'JUZ — O’
>;l° te* TOKEN otCRATJTiIDE c
U AZ
■ iuntn OM»n*uruut C
V s r>
^ 1
f wkju whta //** k c ?
■jSasai
p?*?;
GOLD MEDAL.
UiOUB
GOLD MEDAL,
Cured. Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWORN TESTIMONY.
Statutory
&im!k
Declaration.
JTHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hone, obtained some of Herr Bassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALP ALINE
PILES,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ML within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S, T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Bary, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria,
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed, John Reynolds,
Ohappel-st,, Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Yonr remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
ARBURY, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen —I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated , both in my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. 1 consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. — Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.—F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
ease of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. — A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st,, Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.— J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.— P. H. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended their to
other sufferers : 1 have found them to be worth their weight
; n gold.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
-
i ‘ ■
HERR RABSMUSBEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OP THE
ft NATURAL DO OTOE”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the <( Centennial History of
N. S- Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors .of Youth.
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Fills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted, Is. 6d.,
35., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Fills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes
posted, 35., 65., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills,
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off. Posted
3s. and 6s.
Herr Rassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“ Centennial History of N.S.W.”
‘We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
ieuth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
‘‘Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown Courier (Q,). ’
“It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAR MAN OF MARK.
“Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that wu
make no apology for referring to some of them, Mr.
Ramsden s case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him m six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “ doctors ” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
™ se of suffering humanity.”—Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD,
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Remc
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has, numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank o(
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world—are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”— The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN’
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands. He wa‘
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he i-
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he wili
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales. —lhe Essenden and Flemington Chronicle anj
North Melbourne Advertiser.— lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
botanist. ” —Launceston
Testimonials,
Parliament House, Sydney,
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, Varicocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any Kind. Ordinary course 23s 6d
posted. Special powerful double course, 435. 6d. posted Boxes it
6s. and 12s. * ox s ac
Chief Head Depot:
647 CtEOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Hoad Depot;
150 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE.
Uallauat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
Ui me lies sent Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 RUN DLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
QUE E IT STREET,
BRISBANE.
Igg" Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALFA LINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE OBTAINED FROM THE A ROVRMENTIONED DEPOTS.
“ Tlie nXTa-tural Doctor.”
A Valuable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice.
Posted
Important.
Always send money by P.O. Order, and register all
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “
receipt of addressed and ‘id, stamped envelope.
letters containing same. All correspondence
The Alfalinc Medical Guido,” sent free on


The universal popularity of Ayer’s Hair Vigor
Is the most convincing proof of its value as a
Dressing for tire Hair.
When the hair becomes thin, faded, or pre-
maturely gray, this preparation restores all its
former color, fullness, and texture. Bland, cool,
and delightfully perfumed, Ayer’s Hair Vigor
prevents baldness, keeps the head free from
dandruff, and cures unsightly and troublesome
humors of the scalp. Ladies desirous of having
an abundance of soft, silky tresses, and gentle-
men who wish to preserve their youthful ap-
pearance to an advanced age, would do well to
furnish their toilets with
Ayer’s HalrVigor,
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Perfumers.
BROOME’S M U SIC
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
ẅ
ft
or,
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
413. Song that Reached My Heart.
403. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
507. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in P.
569. Maggie Murphy s Home.
555. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in 0.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E fiat. 603 in F.
618. Remember now thy Creator.
019 Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
554. The Conntry Wedding Barn Dance
THE HOLBOEU MUSIC STORES,
15 HoLiiORN, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
KSt. IS45] TRADE SUPPLIED. JF.st.lS4s
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
s's MaidßtekcWj
USTWIOHS*
LOHSE'S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY-
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are tbe most fashionable in tbe world.
Sold by all fyigl; class'Perfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
J 1 Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S»
MALTED
MILK.
&
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
FOR TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
1 with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
TI/TALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
ill no milk is to be added ; it is quickl)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water,
i lUf ALTED MILK is the best food for In-
-171 fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk. 1 '
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
TUT ALTED MILK, as a food for In-
JLTJL valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18,1891.
Malted Milk will beep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Pure, Palatable, Perfect.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is
the best invigorator out.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Us© Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—Soothing and invigorating
Wolfe's Schmapps— £l orders.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.— Sternly refuse imitations.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky; it is the best Brillian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very economical for general use; it is
the best softener and beautifier of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Size* 3*. 6 d„ 75., and 10*. 6 d.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONiAisapuraand
fragrant toilet powder in three tints —white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is and 2s. 6d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS,” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO" CIGARI.
Sole Agents s MCCARTHY .V CO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on moat
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
Me C A.HTHIT & CO., Tobacco Mercliantß,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
w^Jmm
I
111
m
s’-'>3rr‘
GIVES NERVE POWER
Up MoteT
MPROvES DIGESTION
„ MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
m
, ,e old proverb be true;
tSMeX9l9*.rs- SAP OLIO is <|reaher l*han
royally itself: Try il* in your nexb
house-cleaning: Grocers Keep it
DO YOU LIVE IN GREASE?
As a true patriot and citizen you should naturalize yourself
by using the best inventions of the day for removing such a charge
To live in Grease is utterly unnecessary when SAPOLIO is sold
in all the stores, and abolishes grease and dirt.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
BROWN’S PATENT
DERMATHISTIC CORSET.
nr \
D»*
ELEGANCE! COMFORT!! DURABILITY!!!
“ The actual wearing out
of such a Corset as this be-
comes an absolute jmpossi-
lity.”— lady’s Pictorial ,
“ An ingenious method of
insuring durability, ” —Myra
“It seems, indeed, as
though one pair would last
a wearer the whole course of
her natural life.’%— Sylvia,
SPECIAL) TE.
BONES, BUSKS,&STEELS,
PROTECTED BY LEATHER.
Ijlrlncipnl (Colours;
Black, Cardinal, Tabac,
Gold, Ruby, Terra Cotta,
Apricot, Dove, dfc White.
The Registered 1 Coach Spring
Busks ’ with -which these
Corsets are now fitted are
Warranted Unbreakable.
Every Lady should try
them. Order at once.
m
MS
gat Caution Do not take a Substitute; Beware
of Worthless Imitations.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ SAUCE.*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
hears the Signature, thus :-=•
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see frame on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper,
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse & Blackwell, London, sc., j
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World .
lrrigation ColorL3r,
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Withiin Forty HtO) Miles of Sydney on Western Railway Xjiane.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Rig'hts,
UQW BEADY FOB IUSPECTIOIT AITD SELECTION.
er COACHES BUN TWICE DAILY—PENRITH TO MULGOA.
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgon,
or to Sydney Agents,
XXardie & Gorman,
133 Pitt IBtreet,
Sydney.
There is a publican in Port Melbourne
named S. Gaff—probably Shandy Gaff.
“ It is better not to follow great reformers
beyond the threshold of their homes.”
A Melbourne magistrate has decided that
if a bar-door is locked and the key left in it the
door is not locked.
The phosphorescent glow, an American
auth' rity declares, is to be the light of the future,
and will replace electricity.
New Caledonia, owing to its geographical
position, was the first to see the dawn of the
centenary of the French Republic,
Current Literature credits Pall Mall
Gazette with The Bulletin’s (Edward Dyson’s)
verses suggesting names for Governor Hopetoun’s
baby.
N.S. W. Minister of Agriculture Slattery
proposes to grade all butter for export. Tom
Slattery and Dan O’Connor would look well
grading grease together.
Bartlett, M.P. (S.A.) : “ The Opposition
are a conglomerated mass of humbugs! ” The
Speaker : “ You must withdraw that statement.”
Bartlett (looking up to the reporters); “Oh, J
withdraw ! It was a misprint ! ”
Francis Adams’ magazine article on Gordon
and Marcus Clarke is all right for those who know
the writings of the men, but it must appear very
scrappy, fretful and fragmentary to British
readers.
S.M. Herald advertisement: —
f ' ENTLEMAN, has been out of appt. long while,
just got good appointment abroad, would be
glad of Parcels Left-off Wearing Apparel ; height
sft. 6in., medium build. J. Holt, care Mr. Young,
Railway Station, Windsor.
The Perth (W.A.) Daily News says:
“Mr. J. P. T. Caulfield, the Boy-Politician, a
fluent and able speaker, with an alert mind, and
considerable political knowledge, will most likely
make his home in Perth, where he is now staying.
We want men such as he in our midst, and many
of them.” The trouble of it is that there aren’t
many of them—in fact, there is only one and there
may never be another.
Dear Bulletin, —ln 1861, on the Hunter,
“Black Peter” threw a boomerang. Twenty
years elapsed, and Peter migrated to Queensland,
then to a wanner sphere. In January, 1890, the
boomerang faithfully returned to its point of de-
parture. It exhibited unmistakable signs of grief
at Peter’s want of confidence, and then disap-
peared due north. A Queensland man has since
told the writer that it found Peter’s grave, in-
scribed his epitaph on a tree, and then left to look
up his soul. But Queensland men are mostly liars.
Yours, J. S. S.
On the unveiling of a statue of Hercules in
Victoria Square, Adelaide, Horn, M.P., tried to
sneer down the miners and their “lock-out”
struggle by stating that “Hercules was at one
time a groom in the Augean stables, and finding
the work was greater than he bargained for he
promptly struck.” That, Hercules was entitled
to do, but, as a matter of fabled fact, he didn’t,
and Rogers, of the T. and L. Council, wrote to an
Adelaide paper showing how Hercules, like the
Broken Hill miners, fulfilled his share of the con-
tract, while Augeas, like the mine-directors,
refused the reward to which he (Hercules) was
justly entitled, and so provoked the struggle in
which that king and unjust employer lost his life.
Horn’s analogy was unfortunate.
The culture of beauty has been a recog-
nised art in all ages and all countries and flourishes
to-day as it has in the past. Quite the most
successful specialist of modern times is Mrs. Anna
Ruppert, an American lady doctor, whose fame as
a beautifier extends over two hemispheres, and
whose ability has placed her in an altogether
unique position. Many Australian ladies have
visited Mrs. Ruppert in London and have seen
her vast reception and consulting rooms, offices
and laboratory, but for those who cannot consult
her personally she has recently opened a branch
office in Australia, at 153 Strand, Sydney,
further particulars concerning which may be
gleaned from advertisement in this paper.
Some fine writing from a Melbourne
evening paper. The reporter has been watching
shearers: —
The pure white inner side of the rich fleeces were drop-
ping to the dirty floor like a snowy cascade, revealing the
pink skin beneath the “swansdown” that was left like
the dainty blush of a bride behind her veil.


“August
Flower”
Mrs. Sarah M. Black of Seneca,
Mo., during the past two years has
been affected with Neuralgia of the
Head, Stomach and Womb, and
writes: ‘‘ My food did not seem to
strengthen me at all and my appe-
tite was very variable. My face
was yellow, my head dull, and I had
such pains in my left side. In the
morning when I got up I would
have a flow of mucus in the mouth,
and a bad, bitter taste. Sometimes
my breath became short, and I had
such queer, tumbling, palpitating
sensations around the heart. I ached
all day under the shoulder blades,
in the left side, and down the back
of my limbs. It seemed to be worse
in the wet, cold weather of Winter
and Spring; and whenever the spells
came on, my feet and hands would
turn cold, and I could get no sleep
at all. I tried everywhere, and got
no relief before using August Flower
Then the change came. It has done
me a wonderful deal of good during
the time I have taken it and is work-
ing a complete cure. ” ®
G. G. GREEN, Sole Man’fr, Woodbury, N.J.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
IHVICORAJOr
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“l think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.E.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
nRIGGS’
TRANSFER .
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Monnt-
inellick Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free 4d»
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Books, containing upwards of 700
Designs, hound in One Volume, post free, Is. Od.
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade
1J326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
v T SO
SHARPS
INHSS
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
w
At Bondi you 'can buy <4 N U N Darlings.
A BKILLIANT COMPLEXION
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
Vanish like Magic
By a few applications of
professor Devon’s (Complexion Lotion.
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not duly will the Lotion
clear the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. Beware of worthless counterfeits-they
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
ss. Gil., Stamps or P. 0.0.
Prof. DEVON,
zO Castlerbagii Street (City), SYDNEY.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(BEST IN THE WORLD.)
H3T To be obtained from all Grocers and Stoee-
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
The Coonamble Independent.
tIOOU IP ■ «I \ Til If AI»VE11T1SE1I.
CON MOOT and HUGH MACDONALD .. Proprietors,
TT is a drink that will fill a long felt want. It will ex-
hilarate and not intoxicate. While it is delicious to the
taste, it has rare medicinal qualities. It is guaranteed to
be free from all impurities, being prepared from the pure
extracts of fruit and herbs. Royal Club Nectar and good
soda water is equal to the finest champagne. Royal Club
Nectar, pure or mixed with water, is very delicious. It is
the best Summer drink ever introduced. It greatly im-
proves the flavor of any kind of spirits. Everyone likes
it. No hotelkeeper should be without it. Price 455. per
case.
LUCAS BROS.,
AGENTS,
5 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Agents Wanted.
A LIVE RADICAL NEWSPAPER
-AND—
Coonamble, Castlkreaoh River.
This Food should be tried wherever other nourishment
has not proved entirely satisfactory.
Alien & Hauburys
INFANTS’ FOOD.
Already Cooked—Requires neither Boiling 1 nor Straining—Made in a Minute.
6
»
j
■;V":
Brant Broughton, Newark,
17/12/90.
Messrs. Allen & Hanburys.
Gentlemen,
I send you a photograph
of our ‘twin’ baby girls, taken
on their first birthday, Novem-
ber nth. From birth they have
been fed entirely on your Malted
Food, and from being poor, frail
little mortals, whose lives were
despaired of, they have thriven
and become quite chubby and
jolly little specimens of baby-
hood. Moreover, so far, they
have been entirely free from
illness of any sort. I ought to
say your food was recommended
us by our family doctor. Kindly
post us the photographs back at
your convenience.
Yours very faithfully,
(Signed), JAS. WALTER.
No Better Food Exists. —London Medical Record.
Very digestible, nutritious, & palatable.— British Medical journal
My child, after being at death’s door for weeks from exhaustion, consequent upon severe diarrhcea,
and inability to retain any form of “ Infants' Food" or Milk, began to improve immediately he took
your malted preparation, and I have never seen an infant increase in weight so rapidly as he has done.
H. E. Trestrail, F.R.C.S., M.R.C.P.
A Nutriment peculiarly adapted to the digestive organs of Infants and
Young Children, supplying all that is required for the formation of firm
flesh and bone.
Price, Is., 25., and ss—To be obtained from all Chemists & Storekeepers.
a wm
FOR INFANTS, CHILDREN & INVALIDS*
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
"lam pleased to say that when every form of diet failed we were enabled
to give ‘ Bknqer’B Food and to see our Children gain rapidly and permanently.’
THE MOST DELICIOUS,
NUTRITIVE & DIGESTIBLE.
Retail in Tins Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., ss. and 10s., of
Chemists, <fcc., Everywhere.
Mottbrshkab & Co. (S. Paine & F. B. Bonder) ? Exchange
Street, and Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Wholesale -Sydney: ELLIOTT BROS.
We Specially call Your attention to the advertisement below , it
Will pay You to read it carefully if you want a good Gun, Cheap
ONLY &e
W/A 23k'
CARRIAGE PAID.
u
AN EXTRAORDINARY BARGAIN IN GUNS.
*** owl? a r*iTT.n ATiTNrt RTIM Leather-bound Canvas, Cloth-lined Case, and
ivr BACKLOADING GUN. Leather-bound Canvas, Cloth dined Case, and
THE “HURLINGHAM” , comple - te {or the Exceedingly Low Price of £6 6a.
Carriage Paid to any address:to EQUAL TO ANY YET SOLD AT £lO.
™ E
It is 12 Bore, Central Fire Double Barrelled B 1 P jarrelgi flnc steel Front Action, Rebounding Locks, Low„P F ™[2ner
Gun Treble Grip) beautifully Laminated and ftnd PoliBhod English Walnut Stock, Pistol Grip, Spring Forend Fastener,
Beautifully Engine Turned Bib, Barrel Modified Choke, Splendidly Finished and Engraved
Vulcanite Heel Plate- Loft Barrel I' ill doubt the cheapest Gun at £6 6s. in the World, but in «luGed in that
THE 1 ‘ HURLXNGHAM is Beyond aouDt Lwa in illustration, and a complete set of loading tools ete
vulcanite * and ” completed etc
give you a Strong Leather-Bounds Cloth , powder Measure, •Kecapper, Cap Extractor, Hammer, Sere
viz., Cleaning Rod,op,
and Cartridge^cfbsor. 01 This Gun'is suitable for any kind of field shooting, or equally serviceable for
Driver Oil Bottle, Block, andCartridge-ciosei. m..
Pigeon shooting. ,„ mn i e te set Gun, Case, and Tools, carriage paid to any address in Australia and New Zealand foi
i (he colonic*
“hi'^rfrwdtbV^bgnnS-i^edcartridge
NO advance eu e.M.i n , , than ls r •
M QUEEN fITR E ETi MELBOURNE.
Address :
At Poverty Point.
“ Young Peel,” writes The Bulletin's correspondent,
“was very much en evidence at the premiere of HadJou-
Chambers’ ‘Queen of Manoa,’ and made himself quite con-
spicuous by the care lie took to see that all doors were
closed through which draughts might assail the Langtry.
Abington Baird seems quite ‘out Of it.’ ”
Nothing more disgraceful has been seen in Sydney
journalism for a long time, than the wholesale crib by a
certain critic (in his notice of “Genevievede Brabant”)
of the serpentine-dance description.
Pollard’s juveniles do several little things in “The
Gondoliers” better than the adults did them, but the
best points of Gilbertian dialogue are not to be picked up,
parrot-fashion, by girls who have the vaguest notion as to
where the joke comes in.
The beauteous Robert Inman got married recently at
the Thames (M.L.) to Miss Maud Appleton, the leading
lady of his co. The wedding was a good “ ad.,” and busi-
ness for the rest of the season was so big that Inman
thinks of getting married again whenever things are a
little slack.
London Gaiety Co. traces its poor biz. to the death of the
Duke of Clarence, who, they say, “ Patronised this theatre
more than any other.” What an epitaph !
They say that a tenor voice is a disease. If so, what
a lot of unemployed diseases there are about Melbourne,
just now !
“A daughter of the beautiful Alice Dunning Lingard
has just married a son of the lion comique, Charles
Godfrey.” These are the things that make one feel old.
Janet Achurch is engaged by Beerbohm Tree, in
London. A critic pertinently says Janet has every gift,
except the knowledge how to use them.
Nellie Stewart is not returning to Australia yet awhile.
Musician Turner, of the Melbourne Exhibition Pops.,
strokes his beard, and says plaintively: “You know I
only get what’s left.” Yet Turner has made a lot more
money this year than even the theatrical managerial
panjandrum.
Mrs. Arthur Leslie, a daughter (Nina) of P. P. Laber-
touche, of Melbourne, is making quite a name for herself,
in London, as the writer of pretty song-words.
Mrs. Langtry says; “A woman of the deadest white
skin, with blue eyes and blonde hair, becomes a poem
when she dons a yellow gown.” Whereupon a New York
dramatic journal thus comments, “ and the man who pays
for it becomes a tragedy in three acts when he sees the
bill,"
Patti gets £1000 a night, 40 nights, in America, next
year.
Bandmann, playing lago, once finished the famous
speech with, “To suckle beer and chronicle small females.”
What a fate it would be !
William Morton, of Greenwich, claims to be proprietor
of the only temperance theatre in England. Jules
Joubert had the honour of building the first temperance
theatre (the Haleck) in Melbourne! but he never assumed
any frill over the matter. In point of fact, poor Jules
claimed a liquor-license, but couldn’t obtain one for want
of back-door influence to work the oracle.
The little actress always carries her purse in her hand.
What does she carry to the theatre in her little reticule?
Her costume, says somebody, but it is the bit of jewellery
she has scraped up. Was an actress ever carried out of a
theatre in a violoncello-case, when creditors were on hei
track ? ...
The “Faust” and “Carmen” Gaiety burlesques have
been produced at Berlin and Vienna respect!' ely.
Gorgeous Grace Huntley is the Escamillo engaged to
“knock” the Germans.
At Ramsgate (Eng.), the other day, a roaring lion
escaped from its cage in Sanger’s Circus, and caused
brave men to walk over fair women in their anxiety to
quit the show. There was no cause for alarm, however.
The monarch of the woods simply bolted after its trainer
and began licking his boots.
Florence St. John is playing “Blue-eyed Susan,” vice
Nellie Stewart, now that the comic opera has gone “on
tour,” This arrangement seems to say more for the opera
itself than for the success of the original leading lady.
The authors and composer have, it appears, worked tip
the name part for Marius’s wife.
F. C. Brewer chatters about old convict theatricals in
N.S. Wales, and tells how, frequently', real trees, grass,
and water were utilised for scenery ; real blood, where
this fluid was an accessory ; and even the banquet was no
sham of tinselled goblets and painted viands, but a sub-
stantial “feed” of “damper,” beef, and mutton, washed
down with plentiful potations of “ Royal George tea.”
This fluid was made in a three-legged pot, the lea, sugar
and milk being all put in together and boiled.
The Brothers Gatti have taken over the balance of lease
of the London Vaudeville from Thomas Thorne. The
price fixed for the lease is something short of £16,000,
so Thorne, who is getting towards old age, won’t retire
from management with very much in hand when all his
accounts are squared up. He was a rich man when “ Our
Boys” had completed its three years’ run.
The story that Minnie Palmer had been engaged to play
Farren’spart in a revised edition of “ Cinder Ellen,” at
the Gaiety, was all moonshine.
In the Contemporary, George Barlow eulogises “the
rising star of the genius of Darraont.” Some of “ the
rough-and-tumble critics” of Australia recognised Dar-
mont’s power and advised Bernhardt to push him more
to the front. Contracts with other actors, however, kept
him out of “ Camille,” “ La Tosca,” and other plays that
would have suited him while here. In London he seems
to have been the sole lead.
L. L. Smith takes a prodigious interest in the Aquarium
at Melbourne Exhibition, and has dowered it with
pictures, of a rather w'arm order. There is a fine casket,
given by Louis XVI. to Marie Antoinette, and also by
Louis L. Smith to Mrs. L. L. A melancholy interest
attaches to several of Haydon’s paintings here.
What idiots they were to kill the cow that attacked
Gladstone! She would have been worth her weight in
gold to a circus. However, her calf goes to Chicago Fair.
G. W. Appleton, Brigand Stanley’s former agent, says
our London correspondent, is at law with the great
African nigger-slayer for commission in connection with
certain lecturing tours. It was Appleton who brought
Stanley and the Much-Travelled together. Stanley paid
com. on that job, but it appears he put a creditor of
Appleton’s on to garnishee this sum, hence late litigation
and a good deal of bad feeling. Appleton promises us a
treat if he should ever succeed in getting the Brigand
into the witness-box. May I be there to hear 1 Stanley
is lying very low just now. His abortive electoral cam-
paign in Lambeth has convinced even the faithful
Dorothy of the man’s utter shallowness when he gets
away from the one subject which has made his name.
Dear Bulletin,— Re Pattie Brown’s alteration of name.
We used to call her “ Sallie,” but the young lady informed
me in Melbourne that Emilie Melville had altered the
name to “ Pattie ” when the cast was made out for the
“ Grand Duchess,” in which the one-time Sallie played
Prince Paul.— Prompt Corner.
Sara Bernhardt complains that she could not act in
Australia, because of the audience keeping their eyes on
the books, and the rustle of turning the leaves, as in
church according to Sara’s reminiscences of some time
in the last century. One man reading a newspaper in a
theatre may spoil a whole “ Hamlet.”
A London dramatist having claimed the authorship of
an adaptation from a French play, a critic writes that he
is no more the author than a monthly nurse is the
mother.
Vi. Varley is to marry “Dick” Hayhow, of the office
of Howard Smith & Sons, shipowners.
What manager for the Melbourne Bijou ? Garner?
It is odd to see the crowds thronging through the
vestibule bars to the nightly evangelistic services at the
Melbourne Royal.
As emphasising the remarks made in an
article “Theology in State Schools” (printed
elsewhere in to-day’s Bulletin) we quote Bishop
Thornton, of Victoria, who lately made some
remarks about “ replacing the Christian Scriptures
in the national education of this Protestant Chris-
tian colon///'
Herr Rassmussen, the well-known Danish
herbalist of Sydney and Melbourne, lias received
from the Academic des Inventeurs Industrie!s of
Paris a ponderous gold medal, a beautiful work
of art, in recognition of his services in discovering
a new and greatly improved process for extract-
ing medicinal properties from plants.


Medical.
DrSPEER
Assisted by Dr. EIjMSLLE,
M. 1)., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
r*.o. Box 920.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
of N.S.W. and N.E., and has devoted 16 years to the
special study of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN and
SPECIAL DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
ing to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
congloineration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies : therefore he guarantees. Ho claims to
lie the most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours : 10 to 12 ji.iii. ; 2to 4 ami
9 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
bis charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
Nervous Debility.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUS-
NESS and SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion,
for his many years of practice with this dreadful disease
enables him to remove, all traces of it, and to return the
victims to full VIGOR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
30.-—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUS DEBILITY,
In all cases of
PRIVATE DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER,
VARICOCELE consult Dr. SPEER.
SEXUAL EXHAUSTION AND WEAKNESS consult Dr.
SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervous
Debility, Lost Vitality, Sexual Weakness, Errors, &c.,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
2. —AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for Discharges,
Contagious Sores and Blood Diseases, 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. —“ FEMALE ” PILLS, for Irregularities and Obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURB.
Mention this paper.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
w
(REGISTERED).
£ST The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BItONCIIITIS
AND
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is, and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor,;
J. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
Business Announcement.
m
m
m
w-
‘•'M,
■sssSgl
■s*
Best on Earth
Sow Agents—
AlH's Brewing Ss Wine & Spirit Co., Limited.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
Eng.
'
im
f'tm
m
'MM
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
located at
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have- the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, acaieful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
Myllfe-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
j LACK OF ENERGY. FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Arising from Indiscretion Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects—Nervousness,
i r llllne fi 0 Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Pace, Aversion to the Society of
J. emaies, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to Marry,
Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safely and Privately. ’ ’
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old S*res, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Xaanc-tested Remedies. Stiff and
™ e „ n Jomts Md Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CIIBSEBE toft feeling bunch of earth-like
CURABLE WITHOUT OPERATION by Surgeon
Langston s Electric Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
. aucocele, pi ice cbA Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treat* d successfully. Siaidnre
instantly relieved and. permanently ciired. Eits, Epilepsi, or falling sickness radically cured. I use only the
best remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders and specious promised rurc-alls— they
are useiess, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with
skill in a respectful manner; and knowing what to do, 3So Experiments are made. Home
ireatmeiu. Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home.
Treatment can by forwarding particulars of their case
“ , receive a course of treatment by return po-t. Before ronfidlaig' roar rase else*
wJacrr, fonssilt the Old and snrce»sfnl Specialist, KUBGEOS LA istiiSTflM. Age
and experience important. A trieaidly letter or rail may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden years to life. ]%o mercury or poisonous drug« used.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N - B -~ The Only Qualified Surgeon piactising as a Specialist who has held Government
A ppeintan easts.
CON SULTATION FREE.
~g^T
PREMIER BRAND * BOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
SSv.r,, They Stand alone tor style, quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECI 10 THE WEARER—there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carriage Paid.
Try Them.
DEPOTS-320 George Street, 141 King Street, and 300 Pitt Street,
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PRESCRIBED WITH GREAT SUCCESS FOR OVER PIETY YEARS BY A LEGALLY
QUALIFIED MAN NOW PRACTISING IN NEW SOUTH WALES.
cy
FOR 1 N DIGEST^
$0
Take no Substitute.
ŵ
sii*& EST
rj&SEST
e)6WiKG
marine
W9RI©
| Before purchasing any other
I SEND FOR CIRCULAR OF ask yOUf
storekeeper to get you one
,r *
tH e
!!j£
&
K. S
HOWE
J.WJolinston&g!,,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
64 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
' 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Medical.
Or. RICHARDS.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome hia
friends and patients, during his consulting hour*,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY,
CL
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE. A LARGE CLOTH-ROUND
ROOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILIT Y. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used and answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richardshas successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persona to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love,
and cooling as his fan.
When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Darlings GNU N — cost 3d. only.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
Advice to Young Men—Dr, Richards’ ad., p. 21.
Watches, Diamond.s, Jewellery, Sllve r-p late.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT iFIROIM: TPUIE "MI _A. UsT ITIPJYCTITIR/lEIR-S TO THIED PUBLIC.
UNEQUALLED FOR VALUE, UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY, and at PRICES IN MANY INSTANCES NEARLY ONE-HALF THAT CHARGED ELSEWHERE.
£T IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED OUT BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent, of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Wonderful Goods at Freetrade Prices!
STEWART DAWSOR & CO/S
WORLD-FAMED
LIVERPOOL ENGLISH LEVERS.
50,000 TESTIMONIALS 50,000
From wearers in all parts of the world.
FREETRADE
PRICES.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watche®
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
po aS.—S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
D LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
0 Q I AS.—S. U. and CO’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
JJO iU HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£0 Cs. Beware of imitations.
01 1 A B -— s - D - and CO.'S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
iO ING LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection. Cheap
at £7.
/? c inS.-S, D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
X/J I U HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
o r I AS. —S. D. and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
LISII HUNTING LEVER, extraordinary
value.'
Of' i aS.—S. D. and CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
X/U JU Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear ; wnthout equal; cheap at £lO.
Pi a S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
X/1 U. Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER,
Breguet Spring, finest Compensation Balance, as sold in
the best shops in London from £l5 to £2O ; seven years
guaranteed.
Oi ( | aS.- S. I), and CO.’S English Double-minute
- •J and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English. The best Sporting Watch in the
World. Matchless value.
fM cS. —S. D. and CQ.LS Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
C WATCHES, the-best low-priced Watch ever
-guade. Hunters ditto, £ll2s. 6d (Ladies’ and Gent’s).
(' (“ | aS. —S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
tu Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable, and of guaranteed quality.
Worth £lO.
-£« I AS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
and CO.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Extra value.
-Pi 0 I O s -> £l2 10s -> £l5 10s -> t 0 £25. —S. D. and
i v CO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals at the
prices named.
lOf; AND OKA -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking. After a period of six months’ adjustment
these watches are sent to the Government Observatory
Test Office at Kevv, London, where they undergo a six
weeks’ test in efery position, heat and cold, after which a
certificate is issued stating the number of points taken.
Note that none of ours are allowed to pass under A 75, the
highest possible being AlOO. The B and C Classes are of
much less value. A 75 ensures a rate not exceeding five
seconds’ variation in one year.
Any watch in the above List sent safe per-post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee on receipt of remittance.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches—birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. Cd. and 10s.
Od. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment and other designs a special variety. All at Free-
trade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’s Magnificent Assort-
ment of Ladies’ inexpensive 15 carat Gem Dress Rings, in
new designs, from 255. to 605., affords the host means for
selection at genuine Freetrade Prices ever placed before
the public. Our stock of 18 carat Wedding and Keeper
Rings is the largest and best value in Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 pgr cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherch<s display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets, Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entrde Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style, Salad, Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
(id. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Ra>-e and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long shaped Purses Porlemonnaics, Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
WITH THE ADDITIONAL SPACE
At our disposal, we have now added the largest stock of
these to he found on the Australian continent, and we
ask every reader to compare ours with the prices you hav e
been paying. Notwithstanding the duty of 15 per cent,
recently put on by the Government, the following will be
found from 12J to 40 per cent, lower than Waltham
Watches have ever been sold in Sydney;—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 0
Ditto ditto, good balance 2 12 0
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, }-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels 4 4 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance,
patent regulator .. .. .. .. 510 0
Ladies’Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 710 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 12 10 0
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 0 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat .. .. .. 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver oases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S GOLD ALBERTS.—Note.-The above
is our great speciality, and the variety, character and
value of our stock have no equal in the whole of Austra-
lasia. Our selection of appendages, consisting of Seals,
Lockets, Compasses, Charms, Freemasons’ accessories,
&c., should be seen by every intending buyer.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.-In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets,
&0., and the special value we offer defy all competition.
NOTE.— Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip*
tion by the best WORKMEN.
STEWART DAWSON & CO/S Watch and Jewellery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY ; Melbourne and Auckland.
What He Did With It.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Multon’s pub. at Bilboola. Half-a-dozen bush-
men in the bar, drinking and arguing, and behind
the counter Joe Multon himself, with care upon
his corrugated brow, and one fat hand absently
feeling,for his long-departed hair.
“ What’s the matter with you, Joe?”
“Never you mind, Billy Hancock. It’s nothing
you can remedy, anyhow; so just, drink your
liquor and mind your own Hallo! Sandy.
How are you, my boy ? Very man I wanted to
see! That is, if you’re bound for Griffithstown
to-day.”
“ Ay, ay, man ! That’s where I’m gaun,” said
the new-comer —a long, slab-sided Scotchman,
with a huge red beard, and little, waggish grey
eyes, not entirely innocent of squint. “So, gie’s
a drap o’ whusky, an’ if ye want me for onything,
cut it as short’s ye can, for I’m no gaun to sit
doon amang sic an ungodly crew as ye hao gotten
aboot ye the-day !”
A roar of laughter followed this announcement,
for Sandy Macpherson was a general favourite,
and every man there knew that, if whisky were in
question, Sandy would sit do\Vn with the Devil
and all his angels.
“Come into the back-room a minute,” said
Multon, when Sandy had had his nobbier,
and Macpherson followed him in. “ This is what
I want you to do for me : There’s an acceptance of
mine coming up from Sydney —due at the bank at
Griffithstown to-morrow, it is—and I want to
lodge the money to meet it. Will you take it
down for me, like a good fellow? I can’t leave
the place, myself, at present, and there’s nobody
about here I’d like to send. Will you do it ?”
“Surely, man—surely ! —if ye like to trust me
wi’ the siller.”
“ With ten times the amount, old man ! Only,
for God’s sake, don’t get on the spree, going
down. The hard-stuff plays up with you some-
times, you know !”
“Dinna fash yoursel’ aboot that, man! I’ll
joost wat ma whustle again, before I stairt, an’
deil anither drap gaes doon it till your money’s
safe in the bank.”
But, alas for Sandy’s resolve ! Before his old
mare had carried him half-a-dozen miles upon his
journey, it began to rain—one of those persistent
Scotch drizzles which Sandy was unpatriotic
enough to detest with all his soul. In half-an-
hour he was as wet as a platypus, and thus it was
that,' when, at a turn of the track, he came in
sight of Kelly’s, he pulled up to “conseeder the
maitter,” as he called it.
“Ye wasna to tak ony mair whusky till ye’d
pit the money in the bank,” he said to himself, as
he wistfully gazed at the pub. “ But then, ye see,
Sandy, ma man, ye didna expec’ sic a damnable
drookin’. It wasna in the bond, ye ken, sae I’ll
joost let ye hae a neep or twa at Paddy Kelly’s,
tae keep the cauld oot o’ your auld caircase; an’
then, aff ye go again, douce an’ sober !”
But, in Kelly’s bar, as it happened, there was
at that moment —drinking hell-fire rum and
cursing the squatter and all his works —a brother
Caledonian, of whom and Sandy it might truly
have been said, “they had been fou’ for weeks
thegither.” The nip or two, therefore, became in
time the nip or twenty, so that, when Sandy
betook himself once more to his saddle, it was
only his mare’s previous experience of such
episodes that enabled him to stay in it. The
magician in his stomach, however, had not yet
attained full command of his seasoned brain. He
pushed steadily on for Griffithstown, nor was it
till an hour had been occupied in getting over
about four or five miles that he once more pulled
up to “conseeder.”
“ It appears to me, Sandy Macphairson,” he
said, as with no small difficulty he engineered
himself on to the ground—“ it appears to me that,
if ye’re no drunk, ye’re in a state vara unpleasantly
resemblin’ that condeetion. Sae, aboot the best
thing ye can do, I’m theenkin’, is to lay yersel’
doon an’ hae a quiet snooze ! ”
The moon was bright, and a slip-panel was close
at hand, so within a couple of minutes Sandy and
his steed were trespassers —Sandy oblivious to
that and every other consideration, and the mare
crop-cropping round him in the silence of the
night.
As the hours went by, however, the air grew
chilly, and Sandy, who scorned the effete refine-
ment of a waistcoat, began to stir and mutter, and
finally sat up and rubbed his eyes. “Whaur the
deil !” he was beginning, when the sight of his
mare supplied a clue to what had happened. To
part of it, at least, for, though he well enough
remembered his arrival at Kelly’s, his departure
from that distinguished hostelry was a sealed book
to him.
“Eh, Sandy, mon,” he soliloquised, as he
stumbled to his feet, “ye maun hae had an awfu’
dose ! Your heid’s like a turnip, an’ your thrapple
like a limekiln ! If God’s ever gaun to gie ye a
bit sense, it’s amaist time He was theenkin’ o’t.
Ye enjoy the disteenetion, at this present moment,
o’ bein’ ane of the biggest fules in Australia ! Ye
hadna even the gumption to fetch a big flaisk wi’
ye,” he went on, feeling himself all over. “ Eh,
stay, though ! —what’s this?”
“This ” was a hard lump on his chest. There
was something bulky in the inside pocket of his
Crimean shirt. Out it came in a jiffy—a little
canvas bag, at which he gazed in boozy astonish-
ment. Then there was a faint chink, as he shook
it, and in a flash lie remembered —Multon’s money,
in notes, gold and silver.
Sandy fairly gasped as he looked around him.
“ An’ it’s here ye were lyin’, Sandy Macphairson !”
he exclaimed. “ Deid drunk, in full sicht o’ the
road, wi’ a hunnerd an’ saxty poon at the sairvice
o’ ony rogue that happened to come alang an’ see
ye ! I telt ye, the noo, that ye were ane o’ the
biggest fules in the colony. Ye’re mair, man—
ye’re mair !—ye’re joost the biggest eediot in the
hale o’ the airth ! Gome here, Jess !” he cried,
snatching at his mare’s bridle, and clambering
hastily into the saddle. “We’re too lang here,
baith you an’ mysel’! Let’s see—l ken this place
weel enough ; we’re no vara far frae Griffithstown.
Aff ye go, then, as if ye were Tam O’Shanter’s
Meg, wi’ a’ the warlocks ahint her ! ”
The sun was getting low, on the following day,
when Sandy pulled up once more at Multon’s
door.
“Well, Sandy,” said Multon, as Macpherson
came slowly into the bar. “ Back again ? Banked
the coin all right, I suppose? Why, what’s the
matter, man? You look as if you’d seen a
ghost ! ”
“Maitter enough, Mr. Multon,” said poor
Sandy. “Your money—l may as weel oot wi’ it
at once —your money’s gone ! ”
The publican stared at him for a moment; then
he walked round outside the counter. “ Here ! ”
he said, “what cursed rubbish is this you’re
talking, Mac ? The money gone ! Are you mad,
or drunk ?”
“ It’s the plain truth I’m tellin’ ye, Multon. I
got drunk yesterday at Kelly’s, an’ I dinna ken
what’s become o’ the siller !’
Multon took him by the arm and walked him
into the back-room. “Now, look here, Macpher-
son,” he said, “ let’s have no more of this ! I’ve
known you a good few years, and I’d be sorry to see
you get into trouble. Turn up the stuff, and not
a soul shall know anything of this but our two
selves ! ”
Sandy groaned. “Will ye no’ understand,
man ? It’s the truth I’m tellin’ ye. I got full up
to the neck at Paddy Kelly’s, an’ what’s come o’
the siller I ken nae mair than the deid ! Yo
dinna surely theenk I wad tak’ it mysel’? Ye
said ye’d trust me wi’ ten times as muckle !”
“ Ay,” returned Multon, gloomily, “and an
infernal fool I was to think it! But I’m wasting
time. Do you refuse to say what you’ve done
with my money ?”
“I can say nae mair nor what I’ve said already,
Mr. Multon.”
“ We’ll see ! Ned !”—calling a boy in from the
yard—“ go across to the police-earnp and ask
Coleman to step over here. I’m sorry you drive
me to this, Macpherson, but your yarn’s too thin
—altogether too thin for an old hand like me, and
a hundred and sixty pounds ain’t got together in
a hurry these times.”
Coleman was Bilboola’s solitary trooper.
“ What’s up, Multon ?” he said as ho canie in.
“Somebody been kickin’ up a shine ?” “ Shines ”
of a more or less drunken order made nearly all
the business that fell to his lot in the sleepy little
township, and very unprofessionally sorry he
looked when Multon explained what the matter
was.
“I believe he’s telling the truth,” said the con-
stable when Sandy had described, as far as his
memory extended, his adventures of the previous
day. “Paddy Kelly’s is getting to be a precious
queer shop. It wants looking after. And you
don’t remember leaving there? You must have
been pretty well tanked !”
“ Deil a thing I mind frae the time I was sittin’
in Kelly’s bar till one o’ your men—Gray it was—
woke me up on Maxwell’s verandah this mornin’.”
“Where was your horse?”
“Stannin’ close by. That was what Gray
spoke aboot. He couldna hae me lyin’ aboot the
street like that, wi’ ma beast loose, an’ if I didna
clear oot o’ Griffithstown quick he’d lumber me !”
“ Ay ! he’s always in a mighty hurry with his
lumbering, that young man. He’ll put his foot in
it one of these days. Well, Multon, what d’ye
want me for?”
“ Want you for?” repeated the publican. “Why,
to do your duty, of course !”
“ Just so. But my duty doesn’t call upon me
to take this man in charge—of my own accord,
that is. In fact, I believe he’s been robbed, him-
self.”
“Never mind what you believe.- Do you refuse
to arrest him ?”
“ Do you give him in charge?—that’s the point!”
Multon hesitated for half a minute. “Yes,”
he said then. “ I believe he’s planted the stuff.
He’s a devilish sight too wide-awake to have a
bag of money like that taken from him without
his knowledge.”
“No man’s wide-awake when he’s asleep,” re-
turned the trooper, with which incontrovertible
proposition he laid his official hand on Mac-
pherson’s "shoulder. “I must take you to the
station, Sandy,” he said. “And you, Mr. Multon,
must come over and have the charge entered.”
“Now, Sandy,” said Coleman, when they had
got to the camp, “ I’m sorry, but I must search
you, my lad.”
“Ye maun do your duty, I suppose,” said
Sandy, as he handed over his ancient sombrero to
have its lining examined. Next came his pockets;
knife, pipe, tobacco, matches, one-and-ninepence
—nothing more. Nothing inside the shirt;
nothing in the trousers,
“Now take off your boots !” and off came
Sandy’s well-patched Wellingtons. The trooper
thrust his hand into the right boot, threw it down
and picked up the other. “Hallo!” he exclaimed,
as he drew out a folded paper. “ What have we
got here?” Then he looked at the inside, and
gave a long whistle.
“ What is it ?” said Multon, impatiently. “ It’s
not money, at all events !”
“ Perhaps it’s as good as money, though,” re-
turned Coleman. “Do you remember anything
about going to the bank last night, Sandy ? ”
A light sprang into Sandy’s lugubrious visage.
“ Guid God ! man—yes ! ” he cried. “Noo that
ye speak o’t, I hae a sort o’ recklection o’ seein’
Wilkinson, the manager.”
“ And you don’t remember what passed, eh?”
“ Deil a bit ! It’s like a dream to me that I
saw his face somewhere. Ye surely don’t mean”—
“Bank of New South Wales, Griffithstown,”
interrupted the trooper, reading from the paper
he had found. “ 10th Sept., 1890. Received from
Mr. Alexander Macpherspn, on account of Mr.
Joseph Multon, Bilboola, the sum of one hundred
and sixty pounds sterling. F. G. Wilkinson,
manager.”
“ Oh, Lord ! ” said Multon, with a gasp of
relief. “ I hope it’s true ! ”
“True?” echoed Coleman, handing him the
paper. “You know Wilkinson’s signature, I
suppose ?”
“ Yes, yes! this is his writing, sure enough.
But this isn’t the usual form of bank-receipt.
There’s something crooked about the affair, still,
I’m afraid. Macpherson couldn't have gone to the
bank without knowing it —I can’t believe it! ”
“ It’s easy to settle the point. Telegraph to
Wilkinson. You ought to get an answer in ten
minutes, or so. Sandy’ll stay here in the mean-
time.”
Off rushed Multon to the telegraph-office on the
other side of the way.
“Any money lodged to my credit yesterday?
Please reply at once.”
Then he waited at the counter; in a quarter of
an hour came the answer.
“Yes. Hundred and sixty. Macpherson.
Knocked me up at midnight. Drunk, afraid
losing it. Gave provisional receipt. Bill retired.
F. G. Wilkinson.”
That settled the business. Sandy—though to
this day he cannot recall the circumstances—had
not only lodged the money, but had, with drunken
caution, stowed the receipt away in his boot,
Multon, they say, gave him a ten-pound-note, but
swore, nevertheless, that from that time forward
he would make all his payments personally.


FRAZER’S
SlirilE TAILETB.
CAUTION.
IT IS HEREBY NOTIFIED that legal proceedings will he immediately in-
stituted against any Chemist or person discovered infringing Frazer’s Tablets’
Labels or Registered Trade-marks, or Selling Fraudulent Imitations of ‘Frazer’s
Sulphur Tablets” or Sulphur Soap.
|$ REWARD! £j
Will be paid to any person giving such information as will lead to the con-
viction of any Chemist or person selling an imitation put up in a fraudulent
wrapper —in particular, one bearing the representation of a “ Yellow Tablet
on a Black Ground. ’
T. K. STEANES,
Attorney for FRAZER'S TAR LETS (Limited),
56 Margarets Street, Sydney,
AND
331 Elizabethistreet, Melbourne.


Sterling value, G N U N Darlings.
Yachtsmen ! Smoke Gr N 1/ N Darlings.
Smoke GN U N Darlings, Take no other.
After dinner, smoke a G N U N Darling.
Potts Pointers delight in 6 N U N Darlings.
In King-street you can buy G N TJ N Darlings
They have all got ’em. What ? 6NUN
Darlings.
Politicians and Statesmen all smoke G N U N
Darlings.
CAN THIS BE TRUE?
A
S
K
F
0
R
A
N
D
1
N
MACK'S
; Do U BL E -
I <
s<
T <
. 0l
N '
H
I
N
G
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS ; Starch Gloss,Borax, Gum, Wax. &c.
PREVENTS : The Iron from scorching or sticking.
PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: '1 Cime, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers.
YES! TRY IT AND SEE ! nw
YORKSHIRE
RELISH
HAS THE LARGEST SALK OF AAV SAUCE IS THE WORLD.
Simply Delicious with
STEAKS, CHOPS, COLD MEAT, FISH,
SOUP AND ENTREES,
Makes Cold Meat a Luxury.
THE PLAINEST VIANDS PALATABLE.
Blends admirably with ail Gravies,
"Wim-i SOUP
Tho nxo.st delicious Sauce in the World,
Sold Retail Bay a.ll Gs?oce».s, &ts,
Wholesale-TILLOCK & GO.. KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors —GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND,
A grecs with the most
delicate persons.
zr
hi.
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Makes the Richest Custards
in a few minutes
WITHOUT E6DS.
The HOUSEWIFE'S BEST FBIEND.
Saves trouble, and is far more
economical than Eggs.
MAKES A VARIETY OF DAINTY DISHES.
Sold by all Grocers, Stores, &c.
In a few minutes by using
Man's Jelly Squares,
The Squares are complete in themselves,
and are sold in the following’ Flavours
LEMON, ORANGE, RASPBERRY,
STRAWBERRY, VANILLA, PINEAPPLE,
BLACK CURRANT and RED CURRANT.
WQlt diYfijllyYa n d y.
easily JvraiMa.
One trial will ensure their always
being kept in the house.
Sold in Boxes containing Half-Pints, Pints,
and Quarts, of all Grocers and Stores.
WHOLESALE TILLOCK & CO., KENT AMD LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:—
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE CJO., Speeds, JSMgPlaTßicl.#
Positively the DBt es t Hair-Dressing
For Strengthening, Beautifying and Preserving the Hair.
rr* rr^g^
£ IH-A.PIXjEIN'IE ’
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Restorer,
Used by thousands daily. Its Superiority is Unsurpassed .
Ed/wa-rdLsT 6 ’
AFTER USE.
Positively Forces
Luxuriant Hair*
WhisLers
AND
Moustachios
To "row heavily in a few
weeks, without injury to the
skin, and no matter at
what age.
AFTER
USE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED. REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
from whatever Cause arising. As a producer of WHISKERS and MOUSTACIIIOS it has never been equalled.
AS A CURER OF
Weak Sc Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour never fails.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly Harmless and Devoid of any
Metallic or other Injurious Ingredient.
Nothing so Effectual as Edwards’ “ Harlkne.” —“ Dear Sir,—l am very pleased to say that your ‘ Darlene ’is
taking effect upon my hair. Have tried several remedies, but none have proved so effectual ns Edwards’ ‘ Darlene.’—
E. RICKET, 595 High Road, Qunnersbury.”
A Wonderful Discovery.— “ Dear Sir,—Yours is indeed a wonderful discovery. 1 have used one bottle, and can
detect an improvement in my hair already. Please send another bottle,—W. A. RUDSTEAD, 40 Handsworth
Street, Glasgow.”
An Anxious Father Satisfied.— “ Sir,— l am pleased to testify to the efficacy of your ‘ Darlene.’ My little boy
(4 h years old) has had a bald place on the back of his head from bis birth. 1 applied the ‘ Darlene ’to the place daily,
and the result has been most satisfactory ” — Name- and address suppressed bp desire. Original may he seen.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle. To be obtained from the leading Merchants, Wholesale
Druggists, Chemists, and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
Manufactured Only by
EDWARDS and Co.,
95, High Holhorn, London, England.
Medical.
mnm mmi
By Jtoyal Letters Patent.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
PREMIER OINTMENT is the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrival.!
have lately made New South Wales their home, iii
may b, as well to let them know that there is such
an rtiele as J OSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of thecolony, composed of wild plant;!
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
Josephson’s Ointment is purely vegetable, and
(IUAHAXTIiED FREE FROM ALL POISONOUS
Qualities. No Artificial Colouring, as the
Green colour is extracted from the pure green
plants, which defy imitation.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo-ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
LaTUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
k 3 STEANE S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemly and
sincerely declare as follows :
‘ ‘ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
ROW’S
DANDELION
BITTERS.
We recommed these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, in more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
x’ersons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelade, October 30, 1880.
Read an expression of thankfulness received
from the undersigned ;
‘‘ I have for many years been obliged to take
medicines of different kinds for affections of the
liver, indigestion, pain in the chest, general de-
bility, feeling of nervousness, weariness, great
depression of spirits, and so on, but all without
producing any beneficial effect, till at last, being
recommended to try ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, which, happily, I find has produced
an unexpected and wonderful effect and change
in my system, and has removed from my mind
the horrible depressed feeling and former con-
dition of bodily ailment I have so unhappily ex-
perienced for so many years.
“ I am glad of the opportunity to make known
the excellent qualities of ROW’S DANDELION
BITTERS, that those who are a dieted as I have
been may take advantage of them.
“ I remain, dear sirs,
“.Respectfully yours,
“ MARY TERRILL,
“Carlisle Cottage, Leichhardt.
“Messrs. Ed. Row and Company, Sydney.”
Hotel-keepers all keep Row’s Assorted Bitters
containing ;
ROW’S STEANE’S BITTERS.
ROW’S YOU’LL DO BITTERS.
ROW’S QUININE BITTERS.
ROW’S ORIENTAL BITTERS.
HOW’S DANDELION BITTERS.
BARON BERZELIUS BUCHU BITTERS.
ROW’S ASSORTED WINES.
Solti Proprietors,
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
43, 45. 47 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
Whose Wife?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Harry ! what that yerself, back toold Vic., man,
Down from the Never Land? Now, what’s yer
game ?
Ugly as ever. Not dropped the old trick, man?
Well, what’ll yer take with me? Give it a
name.
“Here long? Well, rather, lad; five years and
over,
Settled for good, an’ supportin’ a wife.
Slipped from the saddle, an’ livin’ in clover,
Swore off a whole heap, an’ I’ve slung the old
life.
“ What’s come of Taffy, an’ Brum, an’ the rest of
’em ?
How long since you broke with the Poverty
push ? ”
“ Well, Bill, you’re on top, you’ve the best of the
best of ’em.
Poor Brum is a dummy, Taff died in the bush ;
“ Bob’s cookin’ for Chows on an absentee’s station,
Sara’s toutin’ for spielers, Pete’s lumbered for
life ;
I’m married an’ trampin’ half over creation,
Trackin’ a woman, my runaway wife.
“ Left me six years ago—sloped ! I was shearin’
Away on the Thomson. She skipped ’thout a
word.
Last year she was seen by a Barcoo man, steerin’
Round about here, au’ that’s all that I’ve heard.
“ Heard of her, know her, Bill—tallish and
clever,
Blue eyes, an’ dark hair, an’ she’s branded
here, so.
Not the woman to liquor, or go on the never,
But skittish an’ queer in her tantrums, yer
know.
“ This is her picture, Bill; just have a look at her.
That like any female you chance to have seen ?
Halloo! here, hold up ! Say, man, what’s the
matter ?
Your wife ! By the Lord, Morton, what do
you mean ?”
EDWARD DYSON.
Are visions about ? Wee Kye, of Albury,
prosecutes Ah Tie and Ang Gow for slander.
They called him a Chinaman, we believe.
The Age is very mad at Fitchett for
referring in the Review of Reviews to the Argus
as “the most powerful journal in Australia.”
The Age need not fret itself on The Bulletin’s
behalf.
The expression, “Go, and put your head
in a bag” has acquired a ghastly significance.
At Sunbury (Vic.) some young fellows put a bag
over the head of a drunken man, and he died
immediately.
Characteristic utterance of Renan: “I
often think that the judgments to be passed upon
each of us in the Valley of Jehosaphat will be none
other than the judgments of women countersigned
by the Eternal.”
From the S.M. Herald :
Few poets have poured such copious streams into “ the
well of English undefiled” which is the glory of England,
and in those streams there is not one atom of filth. That
cannot be said of Shakespeare.
The quotation refers to Tennyson? No, to
Chaucer. Chaucer! and doesn’t mean but
read “The Miller’s Tale.”
Dear Bulletin, —The Caucasian subji*
gates the negro or Kanaka. The Mongol goes one
better. Not long ago in passing a Chinese garden
(within two miles of the centre of one of our large
cities) I observed a heathen engaged in ploughing.
That fact was not remarkable excepting that the
Chinee seldom uses a plough, preferring rather
the more conservative method of digging. But,
instead of a horse, a white woman was hitched to
the plough, and pulled with a will and energy
worthy of a much higher form of labour. Thus
the Mongol subjugates the Caucasian ! Who will
subjugate the MongoI?— JOSEPHUS.
Private letters from Roeburn, W.A., give
a cheerful account of that breezy locality. Roe-
burn is remarkable for salt-bush, wind, and
settled melancholy. All houses in the locality
have their roofs chained to the ground, because
when a wind-storm comes along it shifts every-
thing that has been left out, and uproots the
post-holes. On a recent occasion the breezes
removed the sheet-iron off one man’s roof, and
folded it so neatly around the verandah-posts of a
neighbour that the latter was prosecuted for
stealing the iron, and the bench was asked to
believe he’d fastened it about his verandah-posts
to keep the cats from climbing on to his roof to
fight o’ nights.
Here is what Gibbon, the historian, ha s
to say about that holy man George (of Saint®
Michael and George)
“ George, from his parents or his education surnamed
the Cappadocian, was born at Epiphania, in Cilicia, in a
fuller’s shop. From this obscure and servile origin he
raised himself by the talents of a parasite; and the
patrons whom he assiduously flattered procured for
their worthless dependent a lucrative commission or con-
tract to supply the army with bacon. He accumulated
wealth by the basest arts of fraud and corruption ; but
his malversations were so notorious that George was com-
pelled to escape from the pursuit of justice. After this
disgrace, in which he appears to have saved his fortune at
the expense of his honour, he embraced with real or
affected zeal the profession of Arianism.” And so on.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
m
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT**
r ■>
r
m
f
A
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTE3L
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY. Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp far
postag-
Address- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Stdssi.
ẁ
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
and favourably known as a successful specialist
in ail Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address Mrs. G. WOOD. 165 Berkley
: . MELBOURNE,
TSie Harvei of the Age!
* u
KflM
D^pot;
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Fostering: Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also eu res “ Barcoo Rot’
and otuer troubles. A
gift to Miners, Farmers
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale:
Australian Drug Co.
DEAF,
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artifi iat Ear
Relieves noises,&c-
in the head. Cures Deafness.
Send for book and particu.
}ars. Address the Sole
/ :on t : A. M. HAST, 49
E.irabeth St. Melbourne.
Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
%
B
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE—
UNDER VESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had all High-class Drapery Establishments,
Dr. Ja-'uer’s Sanitary Woo'len System Co., Limited,
SVDXSY ■ LOXDOX - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
"Mo Sticking*.
Easy Shooting:, Far-killing, Strong' and Well-Finished
Bresok-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Copies & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 3SOS3S STREET, SYDNEY. Send for List
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and CooL
3e». Oca.. ■&: E 5 tti
£
&
m
Y.
3s. 6d. «S t. ss. 6ci.
G. H. SMITH & SOX, SOLE AGENTS.
G-. h. & sokt,
HAT MAXUI'ACTUKKnS.
CC2 GJTBEET. SYDNEY.
Hotel.
IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to
Castlereagh-street),
Between King <fc Market SU.
SYDNEY.
I
HalKiH
mm
/'
mm.
: r
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Qaiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la ca rte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Weddintr Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
®B"DO^ t \fanager.
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
Medical,
A MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
sneh as wind and pain in
riie stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizrinfiss, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, coe-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, 4tc. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
offerer Is earnestly Invited to try one box of these
ills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these PQls are invaluable 1
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. So female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured fay
iheir use
For a weak stomach, unpaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like 4t MAGIC,” and a few doses will
De found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society’: and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech am’s * Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beech ams Cocon
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d. (containing 56 pills), and at
Ss. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medidne Dealers
evetvwhere.
2s, B, —Full directions are given with each box.
Free
Are to be found in the "Tiitrbt and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDN2Y PHARMACY.
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
Business Announcements.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCO A.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
iVxici Foster Motliera.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. BABKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street. REDFERN.
Showrooms; St Bather*! Street, SYDNEY.
>k
PATENT
w
PILLS
to
&
*
re
Business Announcements.
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thea ® grand medicines hare not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF. YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxtoru-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious
ROS L S
W:S>S\\\\\\\\\ in i// / // ///'x\
&
f»v'
LOTI&
ẃ
RELIABLE
rPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
- 1 - and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, «kc. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 ; FORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and oil Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSS. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN'S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Young Men, who have lost this most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever,and suffer
froth Private Nervous and Skin Diseases, producing
bashfulness, want of energy, nervousness, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay, head-
ache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints, pimples,
weak stomach, impure blood, contagious diseases, etc,,
should send for Dr. M. Perry's work on Nervous De-
bility. It will describe their ease most minutely,
and point out, with unerring accuracy, the best
means of rapid and effectual cure, without
MERCURY OB OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
S’thn. Hospital. Lond..
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship ‘ Dread-
nought-"
Greenwich,
Ox*.
M. PERRY,
M.R.CaSaj Xi.SiAaj Set 3.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Invites every invest
gaticn as ts
hit
Qualifica-
tions,
Hakes a
Speciality
if Private NER-
VOUS & Skin DUease*.
" Xa-
cl tiding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Znlargtmsnti
HU extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enable
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY AND PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Dbustebitkiss is treated of in
Dr. Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to
how this most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most
perfect modern Electric Appliances for pains or
weakness in any part of the body. He supplies a
Qkhuhtk Electric Belt, from which the current
can be dismsct.lt telt, for £h Electric Baths for
Consulting Patients.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m.
on Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION PEE CHARGED.
Sole Address—lsl Elizabeth Street, Sydney
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin' and “A Golden
Shanty,” Brice, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY —
‘]Price 'War'ang,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin' office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Posted
to any English address for Is. lOd. in stamps.
&USCC
dSco
it
Whisky
sMmf
S “ENZIES.IhfoiCtf
DRIXK
“mi
SCOTTIE”
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Esaderson,
5S Margaret St.,
SYDXEY.
Business Announcements.
A
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 14s. 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S POEPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
TOBACCONISTS, COUNTRY STOBESBSFBBS,
Squatters, Station Hands, &c-,
We make, repair, strap or mount ail kinds of
PIPES, and cut and fit any amber or other
mouthpieces. Send your pipes down and we
will return them by Post. A liberal discount
to the Trade.
CRAIG «■ AITKEN,
—6BO & 682
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
ALLT’S
SPARKLING
ALE.
o
-o
cJS*
O
-sa
ẅ
w
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarine !
Thb Lightmxg Mocstachk Pbobuckr. ISJ
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. Cd., Post Free.
CKtlti & AITKFX, Sole Agents.
680 and 652 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Ask for
60?
■ei
gH' s
De Lissa & Phillips,
Btrack Si., Sydisj.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500*000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal citiet
throughout the United States of America ant
Canada, and can offer special facilities for death|
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial an
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained oi
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


“AKTTICUT A..”
■plOE Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &o. A certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers throiurhout the
colony, or from 11. LEICESTER, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.W. for “Anticuta”
Company.
■'VT OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
1 » cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s wiiislsy.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
HUDSON BROTHERS, LTD.,
Clyde Works, Granville, New South Wales.
AGRICULTURAL AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
IRRIGATION. —Complete Plants contracted for.
“ CLYDE ” WINDMILLS are made specially for the colony, and give better
results than any imported Mills. Ask for testimonials. Our large and
practical experience is at disposal of our clients.
CLYDE ” DAM-PLOUGHS and EAETH-SOOOPS in all sizes.
AGRICULTURE-—Our “CLYDE” PLOUGHS, from one-furrow to eight-
furrows, have won first place; and our new HARVESTING
MACHINERY—Strippers, Winnowers, Binders and Mowers challenge
comparison with any. ak
Please write for full Illustrated Catalogues.
A±na
z
o
s
<>
w
K. A. H<-rv< }, Agent, 144 l'larei>ce-»t, Sydney.
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
her Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothinar else! ”
TW~ Coupon with Every Case.
Hnowics’ rumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C. y &Ot| &o.
187 & I8S Clarence Street?
S’5TIDDNr3E3'3£% KT.S.'W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
llock Breakers,
TTestlnglionse Engine!.
&
11
II
u
COLONIAL”
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WOEEING PRESTJBB.—SO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes,
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street i n -““ °«"»i Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
SHOWROOMS
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
«■
4 »
