

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST,
A ITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SI!IPLIED TO THE PDINCIPAL tpBS IN SVDNEV.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 6eorge-st,, Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
WATKINS & CO., 107 Kent Street, * Sydney,
, —FOR—
Mining and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Hequisites,
EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ & GEUEIR, .A. X. lIROISriMIOirsra-lEIR,:^’.
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fd
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
o
$
o
2.
ii
&
o
o
g£p Al£
&
Dog’s Head
ALE & STOUT.
JULES REWARD & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
?.
sst'
O*
fMi
THJt
Or
nr
lIMf
I
K 2
The Oxforti Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprtktor.
“ A. G-olden Slianty ”
AND THE
SECOND KDITION
I ' —ok —
“ The History of Botany Bay”
can now be obtained at
j. H. THOMPSON and CO,.
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE,
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
TRE
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby £*n
abundance of this necessary article of DIET
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
» including
N.Z,, the Home of Australian Fvsh.
To Gen tlemen’s .Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident,in the country, this will meet,a
,LONG-FELT WANT.
Country" Orders will Receive Special Attention.
f
£5 ole Aeents
KTew South. Wales for Messrs. Clayton. and. Shuttleworth
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
CLAYTOMS SHUTTkMIWIK UKCOI* ,92 _
IMPROVED PORTABLE EVOTNE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Mil
/3-ff -
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
■Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Iloiizoii'al Enuines of all classes: Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
’ortable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Ele\atois ; Sa« Benches.
■jteaini'ou er Chad cutting and Bagging Machines; Portable Steam-po\»c» Corn Shelter
COMPOUND UNDEETYPE FIXED ENGINE
A VD
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINKS, WINDING ENGINES, TRAC TION ENGINES. tW Full Catalogues of Engine?, Agricultural and Harvesting Machinery on application
J. & C. Howard, 2SOi Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 12—No. 657.]
[Saturday, September 17, 1892


TIERCE’S
f Chain
WEAK MEN.
“2>r. Pieree'i Clalvanlc
Cliutu Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and only perfect BODY
battery now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to ALL weak
- ICT ,— parts and restores them to
trademark. and’Vigoa'OMsSflrensrtU
Avoid Imitations! Use nous but the Best;
Send for Pamphlet No. 3.Wash, H. Soul *S Ic.
Sydney, and Klliott Bros,, Brisbane, Agents.
MAGNETIC ELAS. TEUS3 CO-, Gan Francisco, U.S.A.-
&
I
df
QPECIAL NOTlCE’.—the Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, EITZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bci.letix will be on Sale every Friday at
(he Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Th 6 English method re-
duces weight permanently
by easy, safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet
add nauseous dings un-i.
necessary. PRATT’S SYSTEM is universally adopted hy
professional men, actors, pugilists: jockeys and others, who
MUST RIGID BY KEEP DOWN OBESITY
“Corpulency and How to Cuke it? an instructive
pamphlet showing “How to Act, 1 ’ sent in sealed envelope for
fonr stamps. Address—Mr. F. ALLAN, BOURKE & WILLS
CHAMBERS, MELBOURNE, Vic. Avoid base imitations.
PRATT'S is the only sore and practical treatment, and must
produce satisfactory results. Warranted Quite Ha cm less.
d
men
WHY WILL YOU SUFFER from
NERVOUS WASTING and
DEBILITATING DISEASES which
destroy the VITAL FORGES of MAN-
HOOD? You may now cure yourselves
without CONSULTING a; DOCTOR.
Send Six Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing the
French method of QUICK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-GURE.
Address ; Parisian Agency Co., Bos 766, Sydney.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS and INVALIDS
“ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas, H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F. 0.5., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
De LISSA,
and PHILLIPS, 1
TOUT
' Sole Agents, Barrack Street,! Sydney.
manhood.
HEAL TIL S TRIING 77/ AND NIG OR RES 7 'OR E D
In Fou r IVeeks by (he , use cf
fd
The only I h/alhble Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility.
Used for a quarter of a centun with unparalleled
«nd unprecedented success throughout the world.
**•<' l : i s .V.‘ ee C I Li S< restores induhood to the most
thatttt ed and debilitated const tutious, reynteraliux all the
important elemetlts of the huniatt frame. and enables man to
fulfil Ins most sacred obligations.
In cases of 125., or four quantifies in one for ids. r
txlra. Pamphlets free on 1 eceipt of stamped Addressed envelope
•Agentsfor Australasia—Perry <Sr Co ,7? Gertrude Strict
vitzt oy, Melbourne. *
Agents for N. S.‘ Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pltt-st., Sydney
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FEKR DEI,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Uni dmr MAT7ITS
MARVELLOUS
3MC ZEES ZO JZ S 5 ®,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theiia, Dropsy’, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, llpart Disease,. Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, tlterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, aind other-
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address— The' MANAGER,
Central Matter Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 370 G.P.O.
ENBLISH PERFUMERY
iurpasaos all others for its natural
fragrance.
ESSENCE OF WHITE ROSE
FRANGIPANNE
STEPHANOTIS
YUNG YUNG
OPOPANSX
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
Of all D< alert, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BIND STREET, LONDON.
XrMt Mark —“ White Rose ”on Goidea
Lyre, with Address in full.
r?-’ STEELE’S GALVANIC
ism
CT
9 NTS B
ELECTRIC BELTS.
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
"of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu,-
factored by J. •). STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon alt candid inquirer's-the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia,
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, &c. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of de-
registered letter, post-order, or cheque. When ordering
Belt send waist measure above the hips.
Druggist. H. P. S ABIR f. Chemist.
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 78 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
PRIVATE HOME FOR LADIES. -Mrs. LAVENDER,
Professional Nurse and Accoucheuse,
Receives Patients-from the country under Surgical or
Medical Treatment. (Established in Botany-street Ten
Years.) For terms, apply “Windermere,” 132 Botany-
street Moore Park, Sydney.
use:
* SoN y
m$ d M
HE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT Ip THE WORLD
Manufactory:
CoN.S.W,
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
iK
m
Usig’s "PM EM” IWjjtu til
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUENZA,
always keep a bottle of ” pn by you and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
It is sl CS-or-axL Kl.lllei'.
Snrinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser—a few drops mixed
ith water—and steam the apartment. INHALE THE STEAM if there he
Avith water—and steam the apar
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles
-(••)-
Dn. BRENDON CURGENVEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil:
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled oil the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-lnark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “J. Bosisto, Richmond, are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other i£ genuine. Ask for
IB O’S' 3=» O T BKiAUD.
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe*
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
TSie Sx*isla.t;c>a3. of Mew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining;
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRAND'S OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE. ,
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
MrSi KUiMIKrSTUJbt Proprietress,
SURGEON LANGSTON,
Bff.K.C.S., En^
v M
a&sEsS5
m mm
I | |
' '
-■<•; sasßas
■ - :v
S - ij
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
located at
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal Of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
Mylife-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent enre in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
Diseases. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY. FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
Arisrng from Indiscretion. Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects—Nervousness.
D bihty, Dimness of Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
letnales. Loss of Ambition. Lack of Confidence, Despondency, Barrenness, TTvititness to Marry,
Melancholy. Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc.-, treated with-success-. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASE'S
all forms, affecting Body, Nose Throat. Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old S«res, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated’by means of Safe, 'Jf ime-tested Remedies. Stiff and
Swollen Joints and iiheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CUHEH. Soft feeling bunch of earth-like
worms—VAlß-ICOCEf_ IS (’URABLEI WB'i'aSOlL’T ORBiRMTIOM by Surgeon
Langston s Elect) ic Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, pricedfc2. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treat d successfully. Rupture
instantly relieved and permanently cured. IPits, Epileps., or falling sickness radically cured. I use only the
best remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders and specious promised cure-alls— they
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with
* lr i a res P ect fol manner; and knowing what to do, Mo Experiments are made. Home
Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home.
1 TrciUiitem can by forwarding particulars of their case
, , ’ r ® ce ive a course of treatment by return post. Before confiding - your case else-
alioie, Consult the Bid and Successful Specialist, SUBCJEOM EAMOSTOM. Age
experience important, A friendly letter or call may save future suffering and shame, and'
add golden years to life. Mo merenry or poisonous drugs used.
121 COLLINS STREET,
The Bnly Qualified §urg - eon piacfising as a
AppoiiiSMzeEstg.
IW’ COMBULTATIOH FREE.
, IICI, &c.r
MELBOURNE.
peciaiist who has held Crovernmenl
TALES
the CONVICT SYSTEM.
OF
SPOONS & FORKS
BOX 1034 G.PO
Inspectioia. X2a.-^ri-t<sc3..
TELEPHONE 073.
■W. IVE^kIVON/E^.TT
RECEIVE WEEKLY
FHOM "X" H-3C 33 X 3=5. E» ZE3u -HI JET* iST" X lES ZLa X 3 3&SI _£K, ZKT "O" 3?' O S X J O 3=9. ’^T
ALL;, THE. . CHOICEST; DESIGNS IN;
ELECTRO -PLATE and CUTLERY SfflODS.
0 iHX-. **-» WOO 4 >{HK >
*»” A MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION, SUITABLE FOE
SP OET S, pRI3SI3 N T A T lON'S, SHI I’, CPU H, JI OTH J, A N
always ox view at THEIR SHOW-ROOMS ;
n PAMTLT IT ST,
EMPIES GHA9EBEES—@3 TOM STEELE ET, SYBIEY.
Also at London, Edinburgh and Melbourne.
SPOOLS & FORKS


«
JF
ABSOLUTELY
PUKE,
therefore the best.
*
n
m
m.
&
y/
==7/
'
m.
m
OJ
u
CoCOP'
ir^
BUSHRANGING & OUTLAWRY
IN AUSTRALASIA.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
BY PRICE WARUNG.
totm Caesar's name must head the roll of
" r ppkless, maddened, or brutal spirits who
taken to the bush.” He was, as we have
tl'rlvou a transport landed from the First Fleet,
der sentence of seven years’ transportation. A
Indian negro, he was, in Judge Advocate
rUins’ opinion, “a mere animal,” but animal or
I e W asadmitted by the sameauthority to possess
D °: a j one a frame suitable for hard labour, but
To the willingness to labour. “Ho was reputed
f hardest working convict in the country . .
Tit in his intellects he did not differ very widely
r ora a brute.” And—here is part of the explana-
. pf his subsequent career—“ his appetite was
fvenous, for he could in any one day devour a
Ml ration for two days.” Part, we say ; and the
uher part is supplied by Michael Robinson, of
3 ,, m we have already spoken. That indifferent
let but excellent artist in perjury and forgery—
r f ]i e d very generally regretted, and the Sydney
PiZETTE put a mourning border round the notice
f his death—tells us that the black Caesar’s food
3 frequently stolen from him by other persons
IJiio had whiter skins. That was very likely to be
.1 case . The weekly “male”ration at the time of
pesaV's first defiance of the Colonial Regulations
IVis the most liberal for several years. It con-
fisted of 71b. of biscuit, 11b. of flour, 71b. of beef,
nv4!b. of pork, 3 pints of pease, and 6oz. of
bittter—all things considered, not a stinted bill-of-
fufij But when the butter was rancid, and an
Mg ail d intelligent contractor had supplied bis-
cuits and flour which were weevilly before the
ressel which bore Caesar and his fortunes had left
the Downs, and the pease had a trick of vanishing
mysteriously from the cooking-pots, then, by the
time the “ white persons ’’—doubtless a commis-
sariat official or two—had helped themselves to the
perquisites of office, the chances were that Caesar’s
portion would not have satisfied the hunger of a
delicate damsel with the appetite of a nightingale.
4nd as though the rogues of the Transport de-
jnrtraeOtand the rascals of the local Commissariat
tvere Hot enough, Caesar, says Michael Robinson,
“was also shunned by Ids fellow-convicts, who
disliked him, being a man of colour.” The easy-
principled masters and madams upon whom the
editor of Phillip’s “Voyage to Botany Bay ” has
conferred an immortality which must excite the
envy of many a distinguished politician-strange
that Sir Bernard Burke did not reprint the
muster-list as an appropriate introduction to his
“Colonial Gentry ”!- were of a lofty temper
indeed when they found—
... a fellow guilty of a skin
Not coloured like their own.
Although England had exiled them, they were
still Englishmen in theory and practice, and Mew
South Wales, it was pretty well understood, was
to be “a New Britannia.” Therefore, as every-
body knew that “no slave could live in Britain,”
so neither could he exist in this newer Britain of
the South. Being a West Indian nigger, of
course, Black Caesar was no better than a slave;
and so our founders gave a new reading to the
maxim, “No slave could exist!” No, of course
not! There was no reason why he should. And,
accordingly, his rations were stolen. So Michael
Robinson insinuates, and being a lawyer, Robin-
son had no objection to suggesting the truth in
cases where there was nothing to be gained by
falsehood.
» # *
Life in the early years of Australia was
simply a struggle to fill the stomach. It was a
famine epoch. Under ordinary circumstances,
therefore, the food went to the strongest. The
weak, on the issue of their supply of rations for
the ensuing seven days, would often gorge as
much as they could to save it from the thieves.
One wretch made his whole week’s allowance of
flour and biscuit (eight pounds) into 18 cakes.
These were devoured at a single meal. Asa
method of saving a ration, this was not the way,
however, to commend itself to others, for he died,
the following day in the hospital. Some economies
are false.
Now, Csesar, being possessed of great muscular
strength, should, no doubt, have been able to take
care that whoever went empty and hungry he
would not. But his colour thrust him among the
weakly class. He was beaten and thrust out by
the strong: “they would not hutt the black.”
There was a fine freedom, and an admirable
absence of squeamishness in Earliest Sydney : the
transports obtained hut-room where they could—
that is, the men; and as for the women, it is
pleasing to record that there was never any
difficulty in.accommodating them—were there not
the officials’ and soldiers’ quarters at their com-
mand? For Caesar, however, there was no room
among the strong; and as for his stealing from
the weak, why there was not much profit in that
game, when the Commissariat had completed
what the wealthy English contractors had begun.
So—there being as yet no world of polities in
which he could display his powers, and no oppor-
tunity for land-syndicating, he took to the sys-
tematic theft of provender in order to live.
*■ # #
As we have already told you, he was ordered
in February, 1788, as a punishment for his first
offence, to be exiled “to South Cape.” But he
got no farther than the island in the habour,
called by the natives, Mat-te-wan-yee, by Collins,
Rock Island, by the convicts, Pinchgut, and now
known as Fort Denison. Hence, for the period
of some four months, Caesar existed with two
other offenders, the first victims of a practice
which obtains in Sydney to-day : the substitution
of “ magnificent harbour views ” for a substantial
“ table.” Some men build better than they
know, and Governor Phillip little thought in
banishing heinous offenders to Mat-te-wan-ye that
he was giving a hint to countless Sydney boarding-
house keepers of the following century.
On the 4th June, King George the Third’s birth-
day was celebrated. Phillip, in recognition of the
fact that His Gracious Majesty was one year
nearer lunacy and the grave, forgave Ceesar : and
retaking him on the mainland, assigned him to an
officer as a servant. A brief term of service, and
ho formally inaugurated the local industry of
bushranging which has employed so many hands
and been the means of circulating so much money.
Michael Robinson comments, “No wonder he dis-
appeared,” but he doesn’t state the reason for this
nil admirari view. Was it because the officer was
not a sufficiently moral associate for Cresar that
the latter bolted ? We shouldn’t be surprised.
Even a brute nigger might feel a qualm of con-
science as to intimacy with, say, Thomas Davey
of the Marines who instituted on Sydney Cove the
harem he maintained in Van Demonia later.
Anyhow, Caesar went, and with him vanished “ a
musket, an iron pot, and some provisions.” Re-
captured just when the stores were full again of
provender (in May, ’B9), ho was sent to Garden
Island in irons. Another four months he endured
of captivity and short commons, and again he
escaped, this time with a canoe, as well as a
musket and some ammunition. And now he be-
came a “ perfect pest ”to the infant community.
* # *
“ In vain,” writes Michael Robinson, “the
Governor dispatched forces in search.” In vain,
rewards were offered for his capture; in vain
decoys were set. At least, two women were
allowed to wander at large in the hope of attract-
ing him by their coy advances to their arms and
the new log prison. He kept out of the way of
the Marines, and the sirens lost themselves “in
the woods ” in their attempt to lure from the paths
of chastity the redoubtable black. With respect
to this latter expedient we must not be too severe
in our judgment on Governor Phillip. Himself a
Puritan, he was man of the world enough to
employ the acts of women as instruments to con-
trol dissolute men. This use of decoy women was,
according to his lights,,no more to be reprobated
than his idea that women should bo .furnished to
the Settlement from the South Sea Islands. This
generation cannot afford to blame Phillip when it
pensions the men who set traps for the latter-day
’rangers with ladies of easy virtue.
The Governor honoured Ctesar with a “General
Order” or two. And he made him the subject of
“Patrole” and “Counter - sign.” You could
generally tell when one of the early Governors
had something on his mind, by the allusion he
made to the “ something ”in fixing the signs and
words for the day. Whenever, for instance, a
convict having spent twenty, or thirty, or forty
years in proving himself unfit to live, received
twenty-four or forty-eight hours’ notice to make
himself fit to die, the “parole” would be usually
“ Justice,” and the c.s. “Death.” When a visit
to Parramatta was projected, it would be “Rose-
hill ” and “ Visitwhen the weather was fine, it
would be “Beautiful” and “Day;” when rain
fell, “ Seasonable ”or “ Unseasonable,’’ and
“Rain;” a threatened mutiny would strain the
gubernatorial imagination after its suppression
to the point of invention —“ Revolution ” and
“Crushed.” And so it is pretty plain, from his
orders for the day, what was uppermost in the
great man’s thoughts. Thus we know that when
“ Caesar” is linked in the “orders” with “Reward”
and “ Robberies,” he was a thorn in Phillip’s side.
# # #
He descended almost nightly upon the
settlement. Now it was a garden-plot at Gai'den
Island which was robbed of its vegetables ; now it
was one of the outlying huts that was favoured
with a predatory visit. He “must have had
comrades,” says Robinson, and no doubt he had.
In a community deprived of almost all topics of
talk except their own petty doings, the escapades
of a bold and venturesome spirit such as Caesar
was, were as springs in a desert land to thirsty
souls. “ They talked about him, and was fervently
hoped by many that he would not be taken.”
There can be little question that, in the minds of
the ignorant convicts and soldiers, the impression
made to his prejudice hy his colour had been dis-
sipated by his exploits. “ Even those who lost by
his thefts, if the articles stolen were from the
stores”—that is, if they were really Government
property on loan—“ were not so much grieved as
might be expected.” Well, the race of peopli
who can bear with equanimity the loss of what id
not theirs, has not yet died out.
* * *
The marines couldn’t shoot him. But
Robinson suggests they did not try : for the
offered reward—“partial remission of sentence
and an extra ration ” —did not attract them. They
had no use for the remission, and a ration they
could always steal. Yet he was seen several
times. The Governor and the Lieut.-Governor,
Major Ross, in the early period, and Lieutenant
Macarthur in the later, led expeditions in person.
We can almost imagine, as we note this, that we
are again in the epoch of the Gardiner and the
Kelly hunt when in the pursuit of the freebooters
the course of justice seemed arrested. Caesar was
the Dora Dora black of the 18th century. And,
as in the case of these twin imps of mischief of
whom we gain occasional dissolving views, it is
pretty certain ho was “seen” in many places
where he was not, and was accused of performing
many feats of which he was innocent. At the
same time, curiously enough, no true allegation of
murder was made against him. The most serious
offence laid to his charge was the breaking- open
of the King’s store. This the authorities regarded,
and properly regarded, as belonging to the cate-
gory of diabolical crimes, for at the time it occurred
food was again short. In April, 1790, an adult’s
rations was 241 b. flour, 2 of rice, and 2 of salt-pork.
This was reduced later; 1791 was one long hunger.
In 1792, however, there was a spasm of luxury;
in the beginning of the year a man got 51b. of flour
and 4lb. of pork ; in July he could revel in 41b.
maize, 3 sugar, 7 beef, 4 pint rice, 3 pints pease.
But next year witnessed a resumption of the
terror. There was no flour; “gram” (a horse-
grain) was supplied instead ; there were no proper
means of grinding. The wretched mills worked
all night, and often when the morning drum beat
for labour to be resumed, its roll sounded in the
ears of the starving, faintinar convicts who had
been waiting since nightfall for their turn at the
mills. In ’94 all provisions tvere issued from the
store six hours before the ship with expected sup-
plies was sighted. Suppose this vessel, the
Williams, had met with the fate of the Guardian,
and the growing maize-crop, as it had in previous
years, proved a failure, the experiment of the
colonisation of New South Wales might have
then and there come to a frightful end. The
awful mortality on board the*Second Fleet, which
should have stirred sympathy in the heart of a
stone statue, or of an officer of the New South
Wales Corps, was actually the theme of a degree
of rejoicing. It lessened the demands on the
stores. With these famine conditions to face-
conditions for which English statesmen, the
Pitts, and the Grenvilles, and the Sydneys, were
alone responsible—it was the duty of the early
Governors to punish rigorously any attempt to
rob the stores. Every ration thus stolen might,
perhaps, mean a life. Theft of food rvas really a
form of murder.
# » •
There was no actual evidence to convict
Caesar of the store robbery. The sentinel on duty
was arrested and acquitted, and suspicion fell
upon Caesar (as Robinson thinks), justly so. He
says “the black was cunning!” He must have
been more than cunning : he must have been sur-
prisingly bold and audacious to have attacked a
-store-house guarded by military and situated in a
street regularly patrolled. If he were a brute, he
was certainly a courageous one : to encounter the


To Fat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Wei!, to
Feel Well—Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Cool, mild and sweet. GNUN Darlings.
Advfc. from Inverell (N.S.W.) Times
•VfOTlCE.—Having now mustered all my
and branded them, any person found f— ° aroos
in my paddocks, or shooting kangaroos, or steUi “
the skins from the same, after this date,’will ms”
themselves liable to the penalty of the law oi,
mam, Shadwell Hill. Mip -
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps'
Kaiser William smokes G N U N Darlings,
---
■
CM
M
m
m
sss?
Us
SSS
m
*
H
m
%N.
a?
/*
(ill
Si/
f
loneliness “of the woods,” the risk of being
“ stung by serpents,” the horrors of contact with
the “savages.” “Caesar,” writes Robinson, “did
not join the savages as many expected.” Perhaps
Caesar, being only of their hue of skin, did not
impress the natives favourably. Lacking white-
ness, he lacked superiority. Had they welcomed
him, doubtless with his cunning and his fearless-
ness, his musket and his canoe, he would have
captained them in many an assault. But the
reception they gave him was not encouraging.
They speared him.
* * #
He had found his way from the Cove to
the younger settlement at Rosehill. There, after
bothering the authorities for a time, he gave him-
self up, wounded by the aborigines. In mitiga-
tion of punishment of his offences, he pleaded
that the wounds had been received in the service
of the infant State. The State had been greatly
embarrassed by the loss of the cattle. They had
been allowed to stray, and when wanted could not
be found. Now Caesar said he had seen the errant
herd being watched by aborigines. Then, he
averred, he drove the natives away, and was re-
turning to the settlement with the stock when he
was attacked and wounded by another party of
the * ‘ savages. ” Nobody believed his story, except
the portion as to his being wounded. “That,”
remarked Collins, “could not well be contradicted
as he had several spear-wounds about him.” As
to the rest, “he was well-known to have as small
a share of veracity as of honesty. ” Evidently, he
had the makings in him of a “brilliant financier,”
had Caesar !
* * *
This was in 1790. The authorities placed
him in hospital to recover —probably with a view
to hanging him as soon as he was well.' Ungrate-
ful, however, for this solicitude he once more
escaped, and for the next six years he led the
Government and the colonists, both at the Cove
and at Rosehill a merry dance. Now, it was the
store, now it was Garden Island, now it was the
huts and passers-by in the one sheet at Rosehill,
which suffered. He would patronise the Cove
one day, and while the town guards were beating
the woods for him, would visit Rosehill the next.
And so he went on, stealing food and clothes,
muskets (on occasions) and ammunition, for six
years. He was recaptured twice or thrice, laughed
in the authorities’ faces when they threatened to
hang him, was ironed —and escaped when he
pleased. He had followers, and crimes he did not
commit were laid to his charge, but with the
allowances for these performances, his own deeds
were, the sparse opportunities being taken into
account, as heinous as those of later ruffians.
# # *
At last the end came. On Monday, 15th
February, 1796, the population of Sydney enjoyed
a double"sensation. A soldier and a convict were
put upon their trial for burglary at the house of
the Rev. M>. Johnson, the Chaplain. The case
ended in acquittal, but probably- the people did
not object to the singularity of the issue, in their
senation at the news which came to hand while
the court was sitting. Cajsar had been shot!
# * #
The reward for his apprehension having
oeen largely increased, one Winbow and a comrade
resolved to earn it. They set out in search, and
remained “in the woods”'for several days, near
Liberty Plains, where ho was supposed to have
iris lair —in former years, says Robinson, “ t was
a cave on the North Shore.” At dusk one evening
the pursuers saw Caesar enter some brushwood.
They remained on watch all night. On his
emerging from shelter in the morning he saw his
danger, “and presented his musket; but before
he could pull the trigger, Winbow fired and shot
him.” Then he was taken to the hut of Rose or
Ruse —Collins says “ Rose,” but as, according to
Robinson, Ruse was the man who accompanied
Winbow, it may have been his hut. If it were
Ruse’s hut, the first bushranger died on the site
of the present Rook wood cemetery. Ruse had
many distinctions. He was the first man to turn
a plough-furrow in Australia; and the first freed
man to receive a grant of land, and now he assisted
at the death of the first bushranger’. For, “ having
given,” as Collins writes, “ more trouble than any
other convict in the settlement,” John Caesar
passed to his account. A terror to an infant
empire in life, he was a bogey to infant children
in death. The nurses of children born in the
early decades called on his shade regularly when
the youngsters were naughty. Thus he proved of
use when dead—and, after all, that cannot be said
of everyone.
The Men With Whom I Used to Shear.
A Ballade of Lost Mates.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Yes ! they are lost, why advertise !
For some can’t read, and some, I ween,
May now have pens up in the skies,
At least—if sheds up there are seen.
Ah ! some were straight and some were mean,
And some are blacklegs now, I fear—
Mad Harry, Smithy, Old Bill Deane,
The men with whom I used to shear.
Mick Ford could sing a rattling song,
And always swore his yarns were true ;
He went to dig at Adelong,
I don’t know what he couldn’t do,
His brother made good tallies, too;
From him I sometimes used to hear.
But, Lord ! they were a motley crew,
The men with whom I used to shear.
I often think of “ Parson ” Jack,
For five whole years none heard him.swear,
They used to say he got the sack
For drinking more than one man’s share.
Howbeit, we always found him square;
But when he preached they used to jeer,
A cent for hell they didn’t care,
The men with whom I used to shear.
Where's Dick the Swell, I wonder, now ?
The fellows had a set on him.
When we cut out he had a row
And very nearly killed Long Jim—
It made him feared at Cooranim
In sixty-nine (’twas his last year) ;
They’d filled his cup up to the brim,
The men with whom I used to shear.
Where are they all ? I’d like to know—-
In Sydney I can’t find a mate,
I'll go out West beyond Dubbo,
And find a shed before it’s late,
An >ther day I shall not wait,
I’ll never make a cheque down here,
And I may meet by Mogong gate,
The men with whom I used to shear.
Lane Cove.
A.C. FONTAING.
Restitution.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brother Prator was an active man in Geelong
temperance circles3o years ago, and an earnest ex-
pounder of the Gospel in “ the little corner of the
Lord’s vineyard,” where the Cornish Wesleyans
assembled. What pious Cousih Jack of that time
and place has forgotten Silas Prater’s passionate
exhortation to the faithful: “Throw open the
skylights, brotherin, an’ let the speerit come in !” ?
Brother Prator was a short, heavy, bilious man
with sandy hair and thin, discouraged-looking
whiskers. His unwholesome skin was blotched
with peculiar bright yellow freckles, his eyes
lacked the sparkle of life and the power of concen-
tration, and were no more expressive than unripe
grapes. But, uninviting as he was in appearance,
Silas was fervent in the cause and strong for
righteousness. He never engaged in prayer for
the general benefit at the iron chapel, without
finishing, in a paroxysm of tears, with his face in
the dust upon the floor. There was no dissimula-
tion in all this ; Prator’s religious ecstacies were
genuine, and yet he was not superior to those
little tricks of trade to which more carnal-minded
tradesmen resort to swell their profits. He had
been caught using light weights at his humble
store, and it was well known amongst the elect
that he coveted his neighbour’s wife.
Prator was Best’s rival for the hand of the young
woman who eventually became Mrs. Best, and the
wedding was accepted amongst the congregation
as a great blow to their respected and energetic
superintendent. Certainly he became more morose
in his manner, and more hysterical in his religion
after that event, and assuredly he always displayed
a marked, if gloomy, appreciation of Mrs. Best’s
comeliness and of the pleasures of her society.
After a few years of married life Best died and
was buried, and it was noticed with sorrow and
righteous indignation by the “flock” that Silas
was pointedly courting the widow whilst her
weeds were yet, as it were, green upon her. But
the lady respected the conventionalities, and did
not yield to Brother Prator’s importunities till she
had complied with the demands of middle-class
respectability, and remained twelve months a
mourner. Then it was given out that she and
Silas were engaged, and three months later they
were wedded at the little corner of the vineyard.
His marriage for some time made little differ-
ence in Mr. Prator, or in his mode of life, but
by-and-bye the flock detected a curious change in
the couple. Silas’ natural gloom intensified into
obvious hypochondria—he rarely spoke to any of
the “brotherin” or “sisterin,” and he became
more furtive in his goings and comings. There
was evidently some heavy burden upon his mind.
Mrs. Prator, too, lost the gaiety that had formerly
characterised her, and was always sad and de-
pressed. The flock assured itself that she Was
terribly afraid of her second husband, and noticed
that she avoided him as much as possible, It was
hinted that he used her badly, but she never com-
plained.
There was a mystery, and the congregation at
the chapel troubled itself a great deal about the
matter. It whispered, and speculated, and
watched, but discovered nothing satisfying, till
Brother Prator opened his heart in prayer one
auspicious Sabbath morning, and exposed his
secret in one of his devotional frenzies. He was
beset by an awful vision ; nightly the spirit of
Brother Best visited his bedside, ahd P TTj
him in terrible tones to give up his vVife i U I%
believed that the spectre Was sent in • P ra ttj t
of his sin in being jealous of Best in thefts
having coveted his neighbour’s wife; nßs h,
Silas never again alluded to lu s troull i
sanctuary, but his gloom intensified f 14 toe
night the pale, vengeful, luminous siw.k evo ry
dead elder came to him, touched him on th of toe
with a cold hand, and said in deen j
tones: Kl ci readf u i
“Thoo hast taken my wife, Brother P.
Give her to me again ! ’ rr ator i
One night a neighbour heard a solit
longed shriek from the direction of i?’ pr °-
house. It was past midnight, but so m. i to r’ s
the agony and terror of the cry. though Wa »
faintly, that the man hastened to P ra f . lle ard
The door was opened to his knocking" tp ri do ° r '
Silas himself. The house was in
seized his neighbour’s hand, and drew h'
the room, and from thence to another into
, “There,” he said .although the dJSSI.
impenetrable, see, I have given him htT v ' Va «
When a light was obtained, M rg . p'p 0 !”
seen, stretched upon the bed which was rd
her blood. Her neck was nearly severed 'i to
old wedding-veil was twisted about her he a ® er
a few poor sprays of faded a ,n(l
here and there upon the body. Soln lay
“I’ve restored his wife to him !” sa m p
again. ’ Orator
The Crown Prosecutor produced Silas P
well-kept books and the evidence of ° r ’ 8
tions to prove his sanity, and succeeded sol re ' a ‘
the jury and the hangman were concerned Ur as
E.D.
A negro woman in New York gave him
recently to her twenty-fifth living child all,
births. She was married at IG. and is n S l n^e
years of age.— British Medical Journat *
July. AL to r
“Jimmy” Gordon, the new p.Ji ,
Adelaide (S.A.), married, as it were, into th
position. His wife Was daughter of old Sammn
Boddome, now retired, who for mam, ‘ "
“beaked” the City of Saints. One stiLlS
made at the time of Jimmy Gordon’sappoininw
was that Ins brother shall not practise before him
All utterly unpronounceable names are at
once put down to one of the “ soft-sonnrH*„
aboriginal dialects.” In N.S.W. GoveknmenJ
Gazette of 23rd ult. occurs the euphonious name of
Jembaicumbone. Genuine Australian, of course
Local residents, however, state that the name
should be pronounced, “Jimmy cum been ’’and
that the derivation dates back to an old Scotch
party whose usual expression of welcome was
“ Jemmy cum ben, and sit doom” Peegebar the
name of a well-known, station, is generally’sup-
posed to be a native name, whereas itorimnafdf
in the old station-brand P.G. and a bar.


Medical*
j Belief fi'om Cough in 10 Minutes.
£fcn/m a/i \s •
JB at s cirri
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, COUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, 4c.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE
Immediately it Is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, G.N.R. Office, Bellce.lt, On. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.— July, 1891.
Sold by all Chemists at Is. Ijd. and 2s. 9d.
Prepared only by A. llayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnuno & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
d
Book, of KTaitiire.
Book of KTature.
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariage
Guide.— A full and explicit explanation of the
structure and uses of the organs of life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6
post!/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/- by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Reading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6. Dancing without a master—Ball-
room Guide and Self-instructor, by Prof. Peltzer 1/3
“Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/C.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress.
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
!* The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing’ all
the tncks and deceptions with cards ever invented
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price ]/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every’ man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/ -
Btreet. r SYDNEY BEAII, Central Book De P ot > « Pa *’ k
ELASTIC STOCKINGS.
Kneecaps, Anklets, Rubber Bandages, Chest Ex-
panders for Contracted Shoulders.
Ladies’ Abdominal, Electric and Galvanic
Belts.
Enemas, Syringes, Uterine Supports, and Preven-
tive Pessaries. Ear Trumpets and Conversation
Tubes.
Trusses for Rupture.
The most difficult ruptures effectually treated.
Artificial Legs, Arms and Hands,
with all the latest improvements, made specially
prrv durability guaranteed.
L i Y n 11 & CO -. 495 GEORGE-ST., Sydney,
v.tx An experienced lady in attendance.
. Established 1853.
Miscellaneous.
•Mtt
1
*TS£
C)
aw.
ft
B£ST on E>^RTH
Allt
Sole Agents
— & & Spirit Co., Limited.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
"jvtt Grand Ho^
.I i H
Board «nH t> ~ MBLDOoiSra, ■' 1 " , "" r ‘
,fn »* r ." T(,k - S!n K lo Hod, in
e»ts fo r j a double ditto, 10*. Special arrainrr
ran d Heoti, Me/bourne.' A ‘ P '
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d. '
In Stamps.
&
M.A.. M. 8.,
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PRICE 13
, In Stampa,
fd
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
that he is 6 pr a c U sfrfg as °a SpeoiMtet? f 0 "! 7 nec ® ssary for him to intimate
greater portion of the New South Wales publm is aware Dr £. e " efaot °r to suffering mankind. As the
Pnysioian, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies ‘ Is a Legally Qualified and Registered
unaware of his great success, asTHtherto he has re n P at a distance, however, are
sphere of his usefulness, he has dot^^’bTm^s^f^^H?*” 11 f dvert } 8u » Hence, to widen the
districts, where his reputation may not vet have travelled 61 */ *° ma £ e himself known in remote
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find R neclssarv advitU 1 \ qUeStl ° n “7 arise ' why does so
follows:—That the Physician who has the now/r ml ’ he . may re P ly to one and all as
pardonable sin of omission; for if there is a person on e/rth ren ? all l s is guilty of an un-
b “ nl> '" hih M "
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
«» «» Wft M., sallow Complexion,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Mtllilitv tt v? ause. Fear of Death, Tendency to Suicide!
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Feeling after Meals Y PainB in the c & u U f^' sh Hiver, Symptoms of
Back, Specks Before wA «j£^^SSSZST^i^Si
LARGE ROOK NOT A BMALL mmphlet but a
LAKCjJi .BOOK CONTAINING MANY PAGES of PRESCRIPTIONS
SIM^L P E^Nr?;?r I p LI,USTRATIONS ’ N »
blMl EE EANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
WlS^Uß™™
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY Tb; o
which has been so frequently tested will be fovwirded *„ , ’ .™" ls exceb ent apparatus,
for £1 Is. Persons sending for the k lctric Ghdlo shnnld £££?*“...° n reC f ,pt of a Post offl ce Order
DootortoselectaGirdleof anm-onri/tA 0 rp ‘ 3 desc , llbe al l symptoms, and thus enable the
a uiruie oi appropriate safety, all letters containing money should
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients. y UL
All Electrical Appliances, Ac., Ac., are packed free from observation, to any part
Monday
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday ..
Saturday..
9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m,, and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
J. 30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m,
9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. *
9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
address UK. W. IS, KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
N.8.-DB. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
:; if/rvtrrr.
m
r.V:
axss»
mw
1 is
s*:
i
3
»«|W
„
>-
59T
ss
■-
mmm
m
<= vJ
****&>. W,*!
In?/ .-f
m
Sll
2^
■flV
k&®
P«
O^v
SSSS
5
&
m
££
fee
mm
w.
5.®!
PSE«
•«w<*
v.^<
LIGHT-RUNNING
f
df
df
d
fd
Latest and most important improvements !
AUTOMATIC TENSION.
ENLARGED BOBBIN.
AUTOMATIC BOBBIN WINDER.
DOUBLE FEED. EXTENSION TABLE.
HIGH ARM. SELF-SETTING NEEDLE,
Simply Perfect I Perfectly Simple!
Before buying any other send for Circular,
Ask your Storekeeper to get you one
from
J. I. Johnston & Co.
54 Bourke St-, Melbourne.
743 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
167 Queen St., Brisbane.
6 rn
TALES of tub CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE : Is. : Per Post, Is, 3d,
_ Medical.
or. riicH^rms.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome hll
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
d
©
4 ■ ~
* I.V.'W 1
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study.of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS. AND SKIN
DISEASES.
Kc has by profound research thoroughly invest!-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo oradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi s
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment, liis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation. Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,'
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOTH-BOUND
BOOK.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecersary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
YOU S DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho wili
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the ca c e, send for his famous medical
work, the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume wi 1 be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment!
Dr. Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully por-
used and answered they are destroyed by Are,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION FREE.


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed
XiJVZRGKE BOUTCTSES
AND
TJI>r3DOTJBZ SECTJ^rj-.-y
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary.
A. and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
f
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia-T. J. Mac Willi am, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYR KEY
Baas-'pale Aie FOSTEE’S ALE and STOUT
LBADEMASa
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PCJHE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED
AGENTS:
Balcliin, \ Johnston & Co
Gruiuness’ ZE3:ac-fcx*EL Stout SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & s CO„
f
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants, T
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
i3T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
WILMA
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS TOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE
SOHOUGH OF B3E3X> Jfc-.'JbS 3EI 3NT ,
Imperial arcade, the strand, empire hotel, gablrick theatre, &o.
STATION AXP PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
THE
‘ l>lum ’
VH
THE
THIS braiUl of Razor is something superior to anything that has over been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings' like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
I Single Razor’, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautifnlrmorocco leather case, 2ls.
1 rice e Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful casa, 30s.
Registered and seht' Post Free: fb any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and lasmania , Is extr' 1 -
aSSL: CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Ferdria.il dfc Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mning, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER B00T& tUf MT-NINO, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GEORGE STBJGET. Y.^^
Cleoverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! I
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
! ■ v g en( j gtampftj >nd directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, OdTtilfel.F &
DR REOWOOD’S REPORT.
K> JUVENIA SOAP ie PERFECTLY Py*E and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, a,d is of
I J the highest QUALITY. -T. Redwood, ff-l-C., F.t 8.
ip
so
BAKER and ROUSE,
MANUFACTURERS and MERCHANTS in PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
375 GrEOUIGrB STREET, SYDNEY (next Bank),
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES.
■Wild -A-xi.s-tra.lia.! "Wild Queensland!
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland"
BY
J±.. 3VE lES S T O 3XT.
lILUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practice what STURT, the explorer, called the “Terrible Rite."
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia.
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia —Hunting, Fighting,
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “Boorool” (Bora) ceremonies.
H3T The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
Will Appear in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide
IM OCTOBER,
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD!
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.
SAYWBLL & CO.
depot
fO»
MARVEL
TO BAG CO
S t
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in tue Building.
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES.
■s*'* v . \ *
.si- m
r ■■ ~ " I ■ -f-! ittW'fli*
riass, kfcrr
m»
sf-
"
ilsf'iCr'Jkiiijy'i flpßl
Sira «•.»? ill
m
Wm : ■ y 1
S««il
! :-®ifr'-i .<»•» I
Bg.
iiw
fli
SP • * * f - 49 SM* - ,'i
' ■■* p. ,
-'■*••■ “i |,, . > . '-i-THHITT '1 .' ■ 1 n
i -t Ue^ant
This first-class Hotel has boon Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and iri s w
Hilliard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort ana
visitors tW Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day. Special Hides for Families.
AARONS- EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY . -
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the estamis


The Bulletin
Vol. 12—No. 657
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1892"
Pric6, SA.
THE SITUATION AT BROKEN HILL.
T HE LAMB: "Let. us arbitrate !"
RIGHT THINKING PERSON ([?] THE WOLF): “ Arbitration be blowe d! What’a the good ! I shall eat you in the long run, and I have waited too long already !"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians,”
PROPRIETORS :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
~HaTT : y€dfly ... ••• 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
'* By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will caref ully read and acknowledge in the
“ Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when, the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
mi Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with its. 3d.
added for postage.
Xo papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1892.
“The Bulletin” and the "Respectable”
Press.
The judgment of New South Wales Supreme
Court with respect to the application of Mr.
Francis Abigail that the managing director
of The Bulletin should be put in gaol for
an alleged contempt of Court presents various
features deserving of particular attention.
We need do no more than refer with a smile
to the peculiar position in which the Court
itself stood in relation to this affair. That it
moved in the matter at all was due solely to
the delicate and sensitive regard of Mr.
Abigail for its dignity. It was Mr. Abigail’s
fine feelings which were lacerated by the
idea that The Bulletin had treated the
Supreme Court with contempt. The Court,
although it possesses the power of initiative
when so affronted, had not appeared con-
scious that anything had happened to it.
But the soul of Mr. Francis Abigail was
vexed at this lack of self-respect. With an
elevation of soul transcending that of the
Judges themselves he, in effect, rallied them
on their callousness, took their honour, as it
were, under his protection, and demanded
that they should vindicate their dignity. The
judgment of the Court, arrived at after
taking ample time for deliberation and
reflection, is in effect that Mr. Abigail’s
solicitude has been uncalled for and mis-
directed. Uncalled for, because there has
been no contempt ; misdirected, because,
although The Bulletin is guiltless as regards
the Court, it has been, in the opinion of the
Judges, reprohensibly cruel towards Abigail.
From this decision it must appear that the
Court is of opinion that Mr. Abigail has
endeavoured to avenge a private and personal
injury by unwarrantable means—that is to
say, by representing that it was the course
of Justice which had been impugned, whereas
the Judges declare that it was only the
course of Abigail.
• • •
The Bulletin, of course, repudiates the
alternative allegation, so far as any excep-
tional fault on its part is concerned. W hile
not claiming any immunity which is not
enjoyed by the non-illustrated journals, it
does claim equal rights with them. It main-
tains that whatever may bo publicly printed
in words may bo publicly printed in pictures
For example, if one newspaper is at
liberty to say that an accused person has
been sent to gaol, another newspaper has a
right to depict him being conveyed to the
gaol-door. It cannot but be most damaging
to any man to have it recorded, day after
day, that he has been brought up in custody,
or has appeared to answer to a charge, that
a magistrate was particular about the sub-
stantial amount of bail, that a man spent
the night in a lock-up cell, and so forth, as
continually is recorded concerning multitudes
of persons. And when newspapers begin by
respectfully styling the person arraigned
Mr. So-and-so, and presently refer to him
curtly as So-and-so, without the “Mister,” or
simply as “ the accused,” or “the prisoner,”
there can be no doubt that an effect pre-
judicial to him is made on the public mind.
There is just as sinister a significance in that
curtailment of respectful designation, as there
can be in any grotesqueness of illustrating
the incidents of the case. Scientifically con-
sidered, writing or printing are but highly-
developed hieroglyphs, while drawing, paint-
ing and sculpture are likewise hieroglyphs,
but in a less developed stage. If it should
happen, for example, that a public man of
whom a marble statue had been erected fell
under a charge of criminal offence, it would
be quite possible, by a few cuts of the chisel,
to so alter his aspect in the effigy as to create
an impression unfavourable to him. It is
recorded of Michael Angelo that with a
single incision on a finished statue he so
changed the expression of the placid face as
to impart to it a mocking diablerie. The
most remarkable distinction between the
hieroglyph which is writing or print, and the
hieroglyph which is drawing, is that infinitely
more meaning can be conveyed by one stroke
of the latter than can by the former process
be communicated without an infinity of
forms. All great impostors have dreaded
the pencil prodigiously more than they
have feared the pen “Boss Tweed
sustained for years without flinching the
unceasing and unrelenting exposures of some
of the most powerful journals of New York,
but he winced and quailed and succumbed
under the cartoons of Nast.
» • • .
With particular passages of the judgment
delivered by Chief-Justice Barley we are
substantially in accord. “Every publication
which may tend to interfere with the due
course of justice, or (is) made with a view of
influencing the ultimate result, is a contempt
of Court.” Again: “There is no doubt that
any publication, whether pictorial or other-
wise, affecting any person before the Court,
whether as a suitor or committed to take his
trial upon a criminal charge, and which
publication is calculated to interfere with
the due course of justice, or intended to pre-
judice the public against or in favour of the
suitor or person committed, is a serious crim-
inal offence.” We go further, and affirm that
the offence is serious if committed before the
person comes under the cognisance of the
higher tribunals. A person’s cause may be
deeply affected by comment published while
he is under magisterial examination. This
brings us to a distinction sought’ to be in-
sinuated in the course of the judgment that
there is a “law-abiding” section of the
press which would unanimously denounce
and repudiate anything of that kind—a
section to which The Bulletin does not
belong. The Bulletin needs to be in-
different to any insinuations of this kind on
the part of persons highly placed. One of
its strongest holds on public confidence has
been that it is no respecter of persons or
stations, and that it has ever tried to deal
more gently with the lowly, who most need
consideration, than with the mighty, whose
station and influence secure for them
compliances and deferences, and general
obsequiousness, w hich are so often rewarded
by appropriate compliments and complais-
ances. But the facts are contrary to
what the Judges in this deliverance have
apparently sought to convey. While The
Bulletin has never hesitated to satirise the
foibles of Governors, Judges and Ministers,
millionaires and magnates, it has persistently
exerted its influence to secure for persons in
humble station and devoid of powerful
friends or faithful toadies, that fairness of
treatment which the Courts have constantly
neglected to demand for such as they. The
Judges are under an obligation, now that
they have formulated and declared their just
views, to lower the level of their vision and
comprehend within it the man of humble
station as well as the man with pretensions
to elevated position. When they shall have
accomplished this alteration of focus they
will perceive that what they designate the
“ respectable press ” has been a persistent
and gross offender against the very canons
any breach of which, their Honors affirm
in this judgment, that section will “ denounce
and repudiate.”
# • #
The cfyse of Deeming is scarcely quite in
point, since the trial of that murderous
lunatic took place beyond the jurisdiction of
the New South Wales Supreme Court—but
noverthqkss in a province the “respectable”
press wlmreof has ever, in the case of obscure
persons charged with criminal offences, acted
with the same callous injustice as has per-
sistently characterised the capitalistic press
of New South Wales under like conditions.
Yet the Deeming case serves to exemplify
the universality of the rule that ignoble and
unfriended accused persons have been ex-
posed to the extremity of defamation while
their trials were in suspense. But there
have been instances enough—apart from the
atrocious and malignant savagery with which
the Sydney daily press treated the wretched
Mount Rennie prisoners—in New South
Wales under the very noses of the Judges
who now rouse themselves to deliver a judg-
ment so just in its essentials and so impres-
sive in its form. The unhappy wretch,
Schmidt, while under committal on a charge
of murder near Wagga not many months
ago, was the theme of continuous dam-
natory comment by almost every one of
the papers which seem to be indicated
by the Judges as incapable of such conduct.
Not only in endless accusatory allegations
of facts, but in pictorial representations,
several of the “respectable ” papers ( i.e ., the
journals which are openly react by persons
deriving large incomes from the courts)
hounded that untried man to his doom.
Wood-cuts, alleged to represent his features,
were published in more than one newspaper,
which could not all be likenesses since no
one resembled any other save in one particu-
lar, namely that each represented a counten-
ance so forbidding and beastlike that its
appearance conveyed an assurance of guilt.
In Deeming’s case, comment went into
particulars, and the public was informed that
those who had described him, as many of his
acquaintances did at first, as of agreeable and
even refined appearance, could not have
been competent to judge, inasmuch as his
aspect was saturnine and malicious. No
instance exists in our memory of a Court ever
having intervened to quell the licentious com-
ments of daily journals respecting miserable
prisoners, shut up in gaols for lack of
bail, and unprovided with the money to hire
lawyers to invoke on their behalf the inter-
vention of the Court to protect them from
the reckless remarks of the ‘ ‘ respectable
press,” On the whole, The Bulletin stands
guiltless of the cowardly criminality which,
while “respectably” abstaining from aught
that might by inconceivable chance
strengthen the prospects of the conviction of
an influential accused, relentlessly published
every rumour, every conjecture which could
prejudice the case of the unfriended and
destitute “ suspect.” As for the immediate
cause of the Judges’ deliberations in the
present instance, The Bulletin, desires for
Mr. Francis Abigail and his fellow-accuses
nothing but absolute justice.
Industrial Life Assurance.
Last week, in New South Wales Assembly,
the question of industrial life assurance came
up for discussion, and was solemnly con-
sidered by a number of legislators who were
almost all profoundly ignorant of the subject,
and who looked considerably wiser than usual
because of their ignorance. The matter was
introduced by Mr. Gary an, M.L.A. and
manager of the Citizens’ Life Assurance
Company, of Sydney, a proprietary institu-
tion which has branches in various Australian
provinces, and has of late come in for some
hostile criticism ; and that gentleman, for
some reason not very definable, stopped the
business of the country in order to read the
complete report and balance-sheet of his
company, to go into elaborate details about
the new actuary, the reserve fund, the
reversionary bonus, the “ English Life
Table, No. Ill,” the “loading,” the “net
liability,” the recent “quinquennial investi-
gation,” the average mortality, and other
matters, and generally to give his office a
large and comprehensive advertisement.
Why any man should be permitted to use
the Legislature as a means of booming his
insurance business, any more than he should
be allowed to move the adjournment of the
House for the purpose of drawing attention
to a hair-restorer upon commission, is not
very clear ; but Mr. Gary AN had at least the
satisfaction of utterly refuting his critics,
principally because none of them were suffi-
ciently acquainted with the business to
recognise the points which required criticism,
# # #
The principal accusations brought against
the Citizens’ Company were practically as
follows : That it has an annual premium
income of £lOl,OOO and spends £68,000 in
collecting this amount and in office expenses,
&c., leaving about £33,000 worth of actual life-
insurance for its policy-holders ; and that it
has collected, since its establishment five
years ago, about £270,000, of which amount
it has actually saved only £BO,OO0 —in other
words, every £1 it has saved has involved an
outlay of more than £2 to effect that saving.
The charge which excited the most acri-
monious criticism—that the company had
inflated its assets by suddenly adding £24,000
to the paper value of'its Sydney property —
is of little account. A merciful Providence
placed the Citizens’ Co. ’s office at the corner
of Moore-street, a new thoroughfare recently
created at a large outlay of public money,
and for want of a thoroughly efficient better-
ment law the company has profited thereby,
possibly tt=> an even greater extent than it
has taken credit for.
# # *
Even the extraordinary figures in the com-
pany’s balance-sheet are in themselves no
evidence that it is unsound ; in fact, there
appears to be every reason to believe that it
is sound —at present. If such a balance-
sheet wore issued by the A.M.P. or the
Colonial Mutual or any other society doing
the ordinary description of insurance busi-
ness, it would mean utter ruin, desolation
and insolvency. But industrial assurance —
on which the Citizens’ Co. chiefly depends—
is an entirely different class of business from
that followed by these great offices. It is
(he art of selling life assurance by the half-
pint or the half-ounce, and is as completely
distinct from the other branch of the iiulus
try, wherein insurance is sold by the pu u
cheon or the ton, as the purchase of half-H-
-pound of steak is fx’om being a cattle-kin, >
after the fashion of Millionaire Tyson. The
commissions paid are heavy, because it often
costs as much trouble and patience, and aa
much damage to the moral law, to trade ofl
a £lO industrial policy on a servant-girl or a
labourer’s wife, as it does to obtain a £lOOO
proposal under ordinary circumstances. Also
there are other heavy and unusual charges
for whereas the average insurer pays his
premium at the office without any outlay for
collection, the industrial company under-
takes to collect, evex’y week or every month,
perhaps 100,000 or more sepax-ate premiums
of a very few pence or shillings apiece.
Therefore, the latter, like all small retailers,
must demand elxhanced prices. The indivi-
dual who insures to the extent of, say, six-
pence per week, probably receives tlxree-
penn’orth of life-insurance—that is to say,
as much of the commodity as he could get if
he saved up threepence every week for a
year and then insured on the ordinary
annual paymexxt system - and he takes
out the other threepence in wear and
tear of canvasser and collector. Conse-
quently, an industrial company which spends
70 per cent, of its premium income on
management expenses may be just as solvent
as the ordinary insurance company which
expends only 25 per cent. To draw com-
parisons between the two, as sundry New
South Wales legislators attempted to do, is
essentially absurd.
* * #
Industrial insurance would be utterly
extravagant and indefensible but for one
thing—it reaches a class which would seldom
make any provision for the future under any
other system. Its patrons ax-e mostly those
who never save xxp sufficient to pay a yearly
or half-yearly premium in a lump sum, but
who can be induced under certain circum-
stances to do with two drinks less per week
and devote the proceeds to this purpose,
provided the collector reaches them before
these drinks have been consumed. It is a
species of portable enterprise which carries
round a provision for death or old age, and
sells it in small quantities to those who
would never go in search of it, and who
could seldom buy it on wholesale principles.
It is the Indian hawker among insurance
companies, and as such it supplies a want
which the lai’gest and most prosperous insti-
tution could hardly' fill; axxd its x'esults, under
efficient management, are as good as could
reasonably be expected.
# * *
Unfortunately, there is hardly a single
enterprise— not even excepting a land-bank
or a gold-mine in a land where there is no
gold that is less capable of efficient manage-
ment. The very nature of the business is
enormously dangerous, we do not say invari-
ably fatal, to it. The work is necessarily
conducted by means of canvassers, and even
an efficient canvasser, in. a country which is
already worked to death by all kinds of in-
surance and other roving agents, seldom
brings in each week new business yielding
more than 2s. per week in premiums. He
receives very likely £2 per week as salary or
commission, it being necessary to pay him at
least sufficient for maintenaxxce purposes.
Thus in his first week he probably secures an
actual or nominal, or partly actual and
partly nominal revenue of atxout 25., and
costs the office £2. If he continues steadily
at the work for two years, and obtains the
same amount of new business every week,
which, we presunxe, is not always the case,
he is then bringing in a revenue of £lO Bs.
per week, and still costing only £2. The
opportunities for fraud under this system
are of the most ruinous description. One
agent of such a company (not the Citizens’)
within the writer’s knowledge conducted his
business as follows : For every proposal
bringing in a premium of 9d. per week—the
first ten weeks being paid in advance —he
I'eceived £1 as commission. Therefore he
issued policies gratis to all who would accept
them, paid the ten weeks’ premium,
amounting to 7s. 6d., out of his own pocket,
and drew 20s from the office on each pro-
posal. Every policy was allowed to lapse
when the next premium fell due, conse-
quently the company lost 12s. 6d. on each
transaction, and insured a large number of
people for a considerable term without receiv-
ing anything in return. There is apparently
no method by which this description of fraud
can be guarded against; the office relies upon
the honour of the canvasser, and as indus-
trial canvassing often is, like the time-pay-
ment oleograph business, one of the last
refuges of the destitute and uttex-ly seedy,
he is not invariably “square.” An insur-
ance company conducted upon ordiriaxy
principles makes a profit out of policies
which lapse after the payment of one or two
premiums ; to an industrial company these
lapses are a ghastly loss, and when they
become sufficiently numerous they mean
ruin.
# # •
In the Citizens’ Office something like 50
per cent, of the policies would appear o
have lapsed, with tolerably disastrous con
sequences. In 1887, according to the dffiues
before us, the company saved about 48 pel
cent, of its premium income, leaving 5- pe
cent, for losses by deaths and woi k")»
expenses. In 1888, the saving dwindled
36 per cent. ; in 1880, it stood at rather 0
than 28 per cent. ; in 1890, it represent
32 per cent. ; and in 1891, it fell to 0


.}(), The institution is undoubtedly solvent
l-tipon its own published figures at the
date of if B bist balance-sheet, but if this pro-
ceSS continues indefinitely, it will, so far as
u - e can see, as certainly become insolvent
sooner or later. A concern whose balance
of revenue over expenses has fallen from 48
to 26 per cent, is—unless it retrenches —on
the high-road towards a condition of things
where there will be no balance at all,
and oM premiums will go in commissions,
death-claims, and office charges. Even now,
but for the accidental enhancement of its
property values by certain city improve-
ments, its assurance fund would, so far as we
can reckon, be insufficient to cover its con-
tingent liabilities, as shown by the actuary’s
report, even though these are calculated
after excluding the liability upon policies of
three years’ standing, i.e., the liability upon
the enormous increase of business which is
held up as a proof of the society’s success.
The “uncalled capital” of £lBO,OOO looks
like a splendid guarantee of solidity, but un-
called capital often proves an exceedingly
intangible asset at the final emergency.
What, for instance, is the value of the un-
called capital of the recently-collapsed Aus-
tralian banking and other companies ? Such
capital is seldom or never called up unless a
company goes insolvent, and after the in-
solvency hardly anyone pays if he can
possibly avoid doing so.
• # #
We attach no importance whatever, one
way or the other, to the adulatory notices
from the English financial press read in
the Assembly by Mr. Garvan. The
purely financial press of England, judging
from facts within our own knowledge, is the
most utterly corrupt and venal, and at
times ignorant, institution under the sun.
ft booms wild-cat mines in exchange for
money or promoters’ shares ; and whoops on
commission for the securities of bogus South
American States, while it blasts the securities
of Australian Governments which take no
pains to propitiate its hirelings. There are,
of course, some few exceptions to this rule,
but they are so few that The Bulletin
would strongly advise the Citizens’ Company
to bury its commendatory notices deep in the
boundless sea and forget that they ever
existed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The P.M. at Broken Hill.
Consider the utterly unfair position in
which Mr. Johnston, police-magistrate, has
now been placed at Broken Hill. In that area
of raging dispute, two factions are admittedly
at war. It is not necessary to insinuate that
Mr. Johnston is a partial sympathiser with
either side. Let it be conceded that he is an
unconcerned machine, a police-magistrate whose
sole aim is to hold an absolute equipoise between
the two parties and to give both sides fair play
and unchallengeable justice. Yet we read in the
newspaper accounts of Broken Hill doings that
t he whole of the precautions for the dramatic-
ally military defence of the Proprietary Mine are
under the supervision and direction of—Mr.
Johnston aforesaid. Now, suppose this is
true, or even partially true, and that there
should be a fight between the miners on
strike ami the “ garrison ” defending these
military earthworks and rifle-pits : Will
Mr. Johnston be expected to preside
magisterially over the charge, or charges, laid
against any man, or men, who may be arrested
for having taken a part in such battle, on the
wrong side, or, for that matter, on the right
side, whichever that may be held to be ? Will
Mr. Johnston, as “ general ” directing, or even
partially controlling, directly or indirectly, one
party of combatants, and thus necessarily con-
stituting himself a fighting partisan, be ex-
pected to dispense undefiled and dispassionate
justice ? Is Mr. Johnston godlike that he
perform this miracle ? Mr Johnston,
h.M., is in an altogether false position,
tl -ii * S an instinctive sportsman, and the
brill of any conflict in which a sportsman
personally takes part fires his sympathies,
intensifies his prejudices, and distorts his
judgment. Mr. Johnston, as personifying the
Law, must be on the side that will be
accounted in the right; yet the excitement of
iard knocks and bloody exchanges cannot fail
o act on his instincts as a sportsman and bias
a !\ ls 'Jews of the merits and demerits of the
P. les involved. The goddess of Justice is
md and cannot light ; but Mr. Johnson, who
uay fight, will necessarily be blind only to the
dh °/ I” 8 comrades-in-arms, while the
‘ e 8 et i illegality of their opponents will be
■ amied from the commencement, and their
u- Ua illegal deeds will be magnified in
iipl| loUSlle ' Sfi *"° a niind so jaundiced by com-
“ 8 circumstances. The question born of
Ipmr cons iderations is : Who should be the
pv, l !ul ate leader °f tllis civil and quasi-military
d P fr} tloU? Who should head the theatrical
Wii K Irs1 rs °J well-advertised bastions ?
G ( ,i ’ , nit . Mr. Edmund Foshert, Inspector-
pre^pa tke N..S.W. Police, whose well-
raep, ’, f( ? rm was seen figuring at Randwick
unii , 0 , er (]a y> an d who, as another sports-
,j 0H ’ Was , t '* leu working fearfully hard. Mr.
on tl.! T n N S P ro Per Place is on the Bench, and
11 the Bench only.
♦- -
Ihe Piety Racket.
(H S vv?, 0h of Magistrates at Parramatta
niaVi Vi ‘ llst week discharged witli a caution a
o{ v , lm , 10 Was brought before it accused either
of snnl a ’^ y ° 1 ’ of havin g no lawful visible means
liuvo lP° rt —we don't know which, but it must
ekiiurf 1 ° n >° ot . tlloSe °Hences. His way of
then* 9 jn° i, a l' vc .l'* 100, l was to pray in public,
Ink,, l )la cc a sixpence in his own hat and to
•Hind lor additional contributions. It
is only the scale of this fellow’s operations
which is novel. The principles of his scheme
are by this time familiar enough to the public
of Australia, when applied to a wholesale trans-
action. He is merely tv modest imitator of
numerous great men, some of whom tire at the
present time enjoying considerable celebrity.
IS early all the bogus financial institutions have
been started by their talented promoters on the
same lines. They have prayed in public—the
vestry and the Bible-class and the holiness
meeting and the mission to the heathen have
been the scene of strenuous and ostentatious
devotion on their part. They smelled their
hats in public longer than ordinary worshippers
and seemed reluctant to remove their noses
from the mellifluous odour of the sweat-band.
They recited the responses with the loudest
sort of fervour. They yowled the hymns in
strange keys with a shrillness or a sonorous-
ness which maddened the choirmaster and
deeply impressed the congregation. And when
in due course their phenomenal piety had im-
pressed a wide circle, they put a sum of money
into their financial hat and invited all their
respectful admirers to follow their example.
The only difference between their system and
that of the Parramatta pietist is—the latter
never pretended that the admirers of his religious
demonstrations would ever see their money
again, or derive any advantage from the invest-
ment until they got compound interest in
Heaven ; the bank-boomer pretended that what-
ever the public placed in the hat still belonged to
themselves, and would be employed at usury
for their advantage, and then deliberately
juggled it into his own pocket. The warning
conveyed to the innocent heaven-stormer of
Parramatta may be applied to the larger opera-
tors. The piety racket, as a variation of the
confidence-trick, is just about played out—for
the present.
Police Privilege.
A young married lady, moving in the polite
society of Toorak (Melb.), was recently singled
out for persecution by two despicable police-
men, who made sundry insinuations against the
character of her fashionable residence, and left
her at liberty to assume that they wished to
preserve a golden silence on the matter. Evi-
dently they had called at the wrong house for
that sort of thing, and reckoned without the
hostess. She had the pair chivvied off the
premises, laid her case before the Chief Com-
missioner, and demanded an investigation
which ended in a sudden reduction of the police
force by a pair of rascals. That a mere dis-
missal from their billets should be considered
sufficient punishment for these intending black-
mailers is striking evidence of the general tone
of police morality. Their only defence was the
plea that they had acted on false information
regarding this particular house, or called at the
wrong house by mistake—a defence which, by
the way, is uncommonly rough upon such a
haughty suburb as Toorak. The boldness of
these men suggests that they have probably
called at “ right ” houses and made no mistake
ere now. Maybe more than one frisky dame of
the district has been frightened into “squaring”
these snakes in uniform, who, in that case, may
still live comfortably upon a modest income of
hush-money. But this casual supposition is not
to the main point. The non-prosecution of the
dismissed constables (whose names were kept
secret from the public, out of considera-
tion for their feelings, we presume) is a
partial sanction of their offence, and their
offence is in the very blood of the force.
The custom of “ foxing ” couples in the gloom,
when he ought to be looking out for quite a
different variety of suspicious circumstance in
the interests of public safety, is followed by the
average policeman from generation to genera-
tion. His curiosity as to relations between the
sexes is the chief feature in his lurking,
unlovable character, and when he discovers an
amorous something that is of no moment to the
world at large, he not infrequently tries to turn
his miserable knowledge to account. Hired
for the suppression of dangerous evils he usually
does as little as possible in that way for his
wages. Much watching of al fresco courtship
enervates the gentleman in bine, and prevents
him from fixing his eye on the murderous lar-
rikin even if he hadn’t lost his zeal for work that
involves danger. He needs reforming altogether
does the policeman. He is too fond of winking
at the vice that stalks in the market-place and
of sniffing round the corner for indiscretions in
which he has no official concern—of trying to
get a hold over feeble women when he ought to
be aweing muscular men. And all the while
he is allowed to share with “representative”
persons the privilege of committing glaring
outrages without being sent to prison when he is
found out.
A Curse Come Home to Boost.
That semi-intelligent politician, B. R. Wise,
has been wandering in his mind a good deal
since Sir Henry Parkes’ leading-string slipped
out of his nose-ring. As an expounder of econo-
mics, Mr. Wise owes the small share of noto-
riety which he lias achieved mainly to having
once distinguished himself by informing a body
of Balmain ironworkers that, under Freetrade,
they must hold themselves in readiness to, if
necessary, transfer their labour to some other field
of industry. But just as Dennis, the hangman,
found all his complacent philosophy about the
ease and elegance, the grace and charm, of
execution by the rope, desert him when it came
to his turn to indulge in those delights, Mr.
Wise has got into a most distressed state of
mind since the accuracy of his doctrine has
received an aggravatingly awkward endorse-
ment by the closing of many great tinplate
works in Freetrade (beat Britain, owing to the
operation of the MTviNUEY protective tariff in
the United States. Protectionists having in-
dulged in a mild chuckle over this striking
example of an ill argument coming home to
roost in the coop of its breeder, Mr. Wise
immediately raised a voice of lamentation and
weeping, and, amidst appreciative sobs from an
audience worthy of him, said, in a heart-broken
way, that he didn’t envy the feelings of the
persons who could rejoice over an event which,
by depriving people of employment, occasioned
milch undeserved suffering to men, women and
children. This lopsided way of regarding
things is Mr. Wise’s patent property, and
trespassers will bo prosecuted. The trouble
between him and the Protectionists is just this
—Wise alleges in a general way that, under
Preetrade, people may have to transfer their
industry to some employment different from
that which they are skilled in, and the Protec-
tionists cheerfully agree with him and heave
his own argument at him every time, and give
a sort of horse laugh when a particularly glar-
ing example of its correctness looms large.
When this happens Mr. Wise goes round and
asks all the people he meets to listen to that
diabolical and fiendish laughter, and tries to
get them to believe that it is not his grotesque
fix that has produced the merriment, but the
sufferings of poor women and children. Poor
Mr. Wise’s disaster is accentuated by the fact
that the misfortune which Preetrade has in-
flicted upon the unlucky workers in England
stands contrasted with the more than corres-
ponding benefit which Protection has conferred
upon the same class of individuals in the United
States. While several large tin-working estab-
lishments have been closed in the Preetrade
country, 34 similar factories are being erected
in the Protectionist one. The obvious inference
is, of course, calamitous for the “ transfer their
labour to other fields of industry ” young man.
Clearly the only relief for the English tin-plate
hand is for him to transfer his labour from
England to the United States—to escape, in
fact, from the starvation which “ the glorious
principles of economic freedom ” impose on
him in order to participate in the ample pro-
vision which “restriction ” offers for his accept-
ance. We shall contemplate with attentive
amusement Mr. Wise’s wrigglings to crawl out
of Ids exceedingly embarrassing fix. “ Eat—or
be eaten ! ”
Cat-Tail and Cow-Tail.
Condensed commentary on civilisation from
West Australian paper :
Ten blacks were tried at the Police-court here to-day
(August 6) for breaking out of Wyndham gaol and stealing
tucker and breaking the telegraph-line. Seven of them
were sentenced to twelve lashes, and the other three were
sent back to Wyndham to complete their original
sentence. The cat-o’-nine-tails supplied is useless. The
Government might as well have sent a cow-tail. Water
very scarce.
The cat supplied by the Government is useless!
M hat au amount of desolation is conveyed in
that sentence ! The West Australian beak
yearns over that good old cat. He loves every
knot on its gnarled surface, and he stands by
and watches affectionately while it cuts great
streaks on the hide of his brother man ; also,
he strains his capacious ear to catch the full
music of the howl which it extracts when it
comes down like a pickaxe on the hinder part
of the victim. There is always a decent
gathering of magistrates at a West Australian
flogging, and the bleary eyes of the respectable,
old, lag-descended fathers light up over it, and
their palsied white heads wag approvingly, and
their pendulous countenances grow more cheer-
ful, and the rolls of unwholesome fat behind their
necks look a shade less unwholesome than usual
as the ceremony proceeds. But at the date of the
above-quoted paragraph the good old men were
feeling injured. Seven niggers had just been
flogged, and they didn’t shriek over it with
sufficient energy to make a West Australian
holiday, and their backs had more skin left on
them when the proceedings were over than the
audience thought proper under the circum-
stances. The Government cat may look a suffi-
ciently horrible weapon with its numerous tails
and the big, hard knots on each; but to an
official who has been accustomed to see petty
aboriginal larcenists flogged by gigantic bullock-
drivers with saplings, it lacks vigour, and
trenches on the commonplace. They evidently
feel much as the untamed Indian might do if
reduced to keeping a barber’s shop in his old
age; after the bloodthirsty joy of tearing off
the human scalp the mere pleasure of occasion-
ally snipping a piece off the ear is stale, flat,
and exceedingly monotonous.
Lady Kintore and a number of well-meaning
Adelaide idiots have started a “ Rent-Aid
Association,” whose special business is to search
out poor widows and miserable, deserted
wives, &c., &c., plant them in homes rent-free
—to be called the Kintore Homes—or pay, in
full or in part, their rents for them. The
Bulletin would much rather be inclined to
commend a tenants’ No-Rent League, bred in
and nurtured on anti-capitalistic rebellion, than
this misapplied offshoot of bogus benevolence.
The real effect of such gammon will be to
subsidise the rent-ogres all round. The
subscriptions will merely find their way
into the blood-leeching pouches of the land-
lords and unearned - increment men. The
well-fed property-owners will be able to
raise rents all round, as their present most
uncertain tenants will become their surest
payers. No .wonder the close-lipped, sleek
obesities who live on usurious rents accord the
scheme their oily approval and proclaim them-
selves the special friends of lorn widowhood and
betrayed wifedom. The salvation of the poor
lies in the opposite direction—the depreciation
of land-values in their appurtenance to private
owners, the pulling-down of rent-rates, and the
ultimate abolition of all rents except those in
the nature of occupation-fees under perpetual
leases. The Adelaide Rent-Aid Association
will give aid to a hundred widows so that it and
its congenital brood of non-contributing land-
lords may screw ten times as much out of ten
thousand other tenants.
*.
Sir Henry Parkes, according to the Sydney
daily press, means to give to charity any money
he may extract from Sydney Evening News as
recompense for the libel stated to have been
committed on him by that paper in saying that
he had unsuccessfully negotiated with the Dibbs-
-I’auton Government i r a retiring allowance
u /«■ Jack Roiiertson, and had become
spiteful iu consequence. Parkes has not,
so far as we can hear, repudiated the announ e
incut made for him as to his charitable in-
tentions ; if liy really authorised it, lie
committed, The Bulletin contends, a con-
tempt of justice, very closely verging on a
contempt of court. \\ Inch reminds ns ihal
when a <erlain attorney, years ago, sued The
lit i.i.i.TiN lor libel, he announced through his
counsel, Mr. (now Chief Justice Sir Frederick)
Oakley, Q.C., that he didn’t some to court
Yj, an em pty pocket and itching palm.
All he wanted was balm for his injured
reputation —he would devote to charitable
pin poses any filthy lucre which he might be
awarded. He got £lOOO and all costs, and
what were the charities to which he applied the
com. Well, he gave to the New South Wales
-National Gallery a picture (painted by a near
relative of his) which, we say, without a
particle of malice, should never have been hung
on the walls, and which would not excite a second
glance if offered at £2 10s., frame and all, in a
pawnbroker s window ; for the rest, he pro-
Mded a trumpery stained-glass window in a
suburban church. Neither of these gifts can
be accounted as charity. What became of the
remaining (say) £9OO odd, Heaven alone knows
Ihe Bulletin, which several times asked for
a statement during the charitable lawyer’s life-
time, never could find out.
A Charters lowers (N.Q.) correspondent wires:
A b!g public meeting was held at the Miners’
Hall, Charters lowers, on Sunday night, to
protest against 1604 names having been struck
oft the roll. Ihe hall was packed to overfiow-
mg. Indignant speeches were made, enthusi-
astic resentment was expressed, and resolutions
were carried as follow :
That the many measures passed by the present Govern-
menti m defiance of the people’s wishes, and contrary to
members election - pledges, are not binding on ‘the
country, and should be repudiated by a National Conven-
tion representing all citizens.
That the A.L.F. be requested to take steps to initiate
the movement at once.
That such Convention sit at Rockhampton, and that it
consist of delegates from every constituency, said dele-
gates to be elected on the basis of manhood suffrage.
-This Charters Towers outburst is only a solitary
explosion among general Queensland pyrotech-
nics that indicate that the Griffilwraith Go-
vernment stinks in the nostrils of the people
North,South,Central and West. If theChartcrs
lowers and Kennedy district workers generally
only abstain from trivial internal dissensions
and unite solidly at the coining general election,
they can sweep the polls and '‘return Labour-
members for all the seats in their areas. The
damnable arrogance of the capitalistic roll-
falsifiers may be imagined from the fact.that a
large number of the 1901 electors whose names
had been rubbed off the voting-lists were
actually present at the meeting of protest. The
Slavery Government will stop at no infamy of
oppression in the endeavour to cheat their fore
seen doom.
A Foreign-trade paper in Sydney gives a
fresh example of the affliction of mental squint
which disfigures advocates of that half witted
creed. Because certain storekeepers—who mav
or may not be Protectionists—in Grafton and
Glen limes are agitating for direct over-sea
trade between European ports and the Clarence
River, and a Grafton Protectionist paper sup-
poits their views, the little Sydney Foreign-
trade journal begins to rumple the straws in its
hair and to slaver long-primer. “It is a curious
coincidence, it raves, “ that the newspapers
which advocate a restrictionist policy' are the
\ eiy that cry out for a foreign shipping
trade.” These wanderings are due to several
aberrations on the part of the patient. One is
that protective duties must decrease the bulk
of foreign exchange, whereas they can only
alter the character of the importations. The
other is that because a storekeeper on the Clar-
ence desires to see direct shipments to that
river from abroad, he can’t be a consistent Pro-
\\ hat the Clarence people really
want is just what the Brisbane people, the
Rockhampton people, and the Townsville
people required—and secured. That is their
own share of the import shipping trade. The
merchants at northern ports get sick of payin< r
a commission tax to the big houses of Sydney*
and as soon as the local consumption is sufficient
to use up an assorted cargo, they want that
cargo to be sailed into their own port. This is
reasonable and natural, and has no relation,
however remote, to the fiscal dispute. Our
distracted contemporary had best smooth down
its rumpled straws, and compose its distraught
brain till next full moon.
Editor Bulletin, —Following up your recent
leader on the proposed Queensland exodus to
Argentine, it may be asked, seeing that one of
the financial impatiences of the Griffilwraith
policy is the selling wholesale of large areas of
ktate land, what is to prevent the sanguine
leaders of the “New Australia” movement
from acquiring their projected Canaan in
Queensland, building up their communistic re-
public right here on the spot, and striving to
communicate the contagion of their example to
others ? If they have cash and hearts sufficient
to found a productive commonwealth “on the
dreary plains of La Plata,” surely they have
enough, and to spare, of the sinews of success to
establish the living actuality of their ideal in
our own country ? There is only false heroism
in the migration, anyway. Co-operation, pro-
perly directed, can be just as effectively emanci-
pating in Queensland as in Argentina. —H.C.
——
Argus reasoning on the Beulah (Vic.) poisoning
case is decidedly shaky :
The motive was sordid and base-just such a motive as
might be looked tor having regard to the relationship
between murderess and victim. Cornwall and O’Brifx
were living in adultery, and the woman, having -Town
tired of her companion, attempted to relieve herself of
him and to secure his property for herself and another
paramour by the one stroke.
To the Argus, then, it appears that because a
woman isn’t married to a man she is the more
likely to murder him, in order that she may
share his money with another man whom she
has no intention of marrying. This is gospel
according to Mrs. Grundy. As a matter of
fact, the motive for cold-blooded murder is not
so strong with wideawake concubines as with
wives of limited understanding, who occasion-
ally poison one husband because they wish to
possess a second. Seeing that O’Brien merely
“ lived with” Cornwall, she would naturally
he free from that awful regard for “ propriety ”
which has caused so many wives to commit a
murder in preference lo making a clean holt of
if, whilst the inference that paramours arc over
ready lo kill a man for i he sake of Ids property
is a respectable piece of nonsense.


[?]
SJC North, Sydney, Sept. 14,1892.
My Dear Mooradikda,—
The ’92A.J.C. meeting- will always stand out as com-
mencing with one of the most lively and well-groomed
Derby Day crowds that Ilandwiok has ever seen. The
weather was pretty, and so were the frocks, taking the
average—because, of course, you couldn’t avoid seeing
the inevitable punting rainbow-woman who clothes her-
self as nearly like her favourite horse’s jockey as circum-
stances permit.
The Governor’s box was well filled, principally by'ice-
regal aliens and strangers, for Lord Jersey wasn’t there: he
was represented by a daughterlet in fawn shades, Chum-
ley and Goschen. Lady Hopetoun cut the most attractive
figure in the V.R. group. She sported a fawn corduroy
plain skirt and basque bodice, made with black silk and
white satin confused sort of front, ending in what ought
to be called Masonic tabs of white satin hand-painted in
pink roses: black feathered hat, black parasol and .cor-
sage-cluster of pink roses. In the absence of Lord Jersey,
Lady Hopetoun fastened the Darby band Camoola’s
neck—which proves that her ladyship is progressing in
the art and science of how to become a successful
Governor’s wife. Last year, nothing could induce her to
decorate the Derby winner.
Lady Norman wore a very handsome but unseasonable
get-up of heavy black velvet, with sleeves of stamped,
velvet and trimmings of black ostrich-feathers and black
jet, with a touch of crushed strawberry; bonnet trimmed
with black lace and a corsage bouquet of white flowers.
Miss Norman was quite dowdy, which was a pity, for she
is rather a pretty girl. Her frock was a crushed-looking
mauve ottoman silk limply trimmed with gimp and mauve
chiffon ; black straw hat trimmed with bows.
On the lawn, tracking down the pretty costumes was
just like catching butterflies—everybody looked so gay.
Mrs. Burdekin’s struck me as the best turn-out. Her
notion was a wallflower-red-and-lavender shot-silk, made
with a trained umbrella-skirt, with a narrow hem of wall*
flower-red velvet bordered with beads, Figaro jacket of
wallflower-red, edged with beads, tiny bonnet and sun-
shade of the shot-silk. Mrs. Willie Mitchell ran a good
second in fawn crepon (fawn was the leading colour, and
crSpon the leading stuff on Derby Day) of very smart cut
t rimmed with pink roses. Another effective fawn crepon
was worn by Miss Nellie Hill, and trimmed with bands of
dark-brown silk, and little brown rosettes and epaulettes
of Maltese lace ; Leghorn hat fixed up with brown ribbons
and pink roses.
Miss Maude Gowlland’s gown was sui generis—& black,
silky figured stuff, with big gigot sleeves of black velvet
trimmed with hoops of emerald-green velvet. Mrs.
(Mayoress) Manning wore a very nobby array of steel-grey
poplin, mingled with black velvet and jet; her daughter
was in grey crepon of very fashionable structure, and
trimmed with flesh-pink silk. Myra Kemble wore a very
sporting coat of black cloth, trimmed with lines of gold
tinsel braid and tortoise buttons.
I was never more flabbergasted in my life than at the
aspect of the d.c. at Ryley’s farewell “ Gondoliers’ ”
matinee, the other Wednesday. Instead of rows of dis-
consolate maidens the house was filled with determined-
looking matrons! There were a few girls in the stalls,
but all over the house the bonnets were ten to every one
hat. But perhaps it was well the girls didn’t go, because
the hero tripped (for I believe the first time in Australia)
in one of his whirling dances and nearly knocked .1 fat and
breathless male chorister through an o.p. “wa'l.”
At the first Musin concert in the Centennial Hall on
Bth inst., there was a good attendance of musical people,
but the only gown was worn on the platform by Madame
Musin—a pink silk, scooped out like a sugar-trowel.
Madame is tall and retrousse, with black hair, and
astonishes you by not wearing a train on the stage. As a
general thing, the higher the soprano the longer the tail.
M. Ovide Musin (who went to school, it seems, with
Monsieur Wiegand) is the very image of his billed picture.
I got on my perch at Her Majesty’s, A la sheep-dog—
that is, almost running over the skulls of my fellow-man,
for most of the floor-space was packed with Johnnies long
ere the curtain rose. The seven and-sixpenny reserved
people were the very top-skim of local society (for one
always counts Govmentouse out on such occasions), and if
you missed any home-grown title in the full sweep of the
brilliant circle (Miss Manning looked fetching in pale-blue
covered with tulle and diamond ornaments, and Miss
Hill’s bright dragon-blue silk added a spot of colour to an
otherwise luke-warm row) it was simply because the said
title couldn’t possibly get a seat. Which reminds me
that at the more popular premieres—like this Gaiety one
—the race that doesn’t eat ham always contrives—by
force of good generalship and good red gold, I suppose
to fix its voluptuous-looking women-folk in the very front
row, no matter how desperate the booking-office conflict
has been. Also, Charles Ryley was in front at the Gaiety
premiere, in the safe custody of a male friend. Charles
(who went 'Ome on Monday) is spoiling his fatal beauty
by a budding mustivey, and hiding his “cruel, cruel
mouth,” as I heard a girl say once—yet ecstatically, as
if she rather liked the idea of it.
Let us be truly thankful Marion Hood (Marguerite) wore
the most accordcon pleat in “Faust up to Date ” for her
terra-cotta and brown-and-gold brocade dress was so
pretty that one forgave the monotonous concertina kink.
Alice Lethbridge, a long and shadowy balleiina reminis-
cent of Lillian Davis, deserves a simple smile because she
got through her gtaceful serpentinings without ’em—
wearing bell-backed skirtlets wired all round, which were
quite a novelty—to me, at least. But, from a calico aspect,
“ Faust Up to Date ” is somewhat below usual Gaiety
pitch, and there really wasn’t enough fascinatingfrocking
to prevent you noticing that some of the “Gaiety
ladies” (as Nellie Farren called ’em) indicate the first flush
of happy youth by a retjl blotch on their little chins- also,
that they have a new style of spreading their hands
dreadfully suggestive of epileptic (Us.
Of these latest exponents pf British v>;it and humour,
Alice Leamar and E. J. Lonnon kept, me widest awake.
Alice hajs the gamin manner that Nellie Fnyren popu-
larised, and Lonncn might ha\,e subjugated Australian
(Jress-circles with his, long, slim tights (it’s been done
before this, hasn’t it ?).if only his knees weren’t a trifle
pulled under en profile. A little sawdust through thp
week is wanted by thp, best comique.
Apropos of “Faust,” when Lethbridge wajJ getting
through lier first gracefuj pas soul , a deep voice from, the
gods said “ Hjear, licar,” and I dop’t s.uppose slie felt
flattered. It sounded as if her fairy fpottall had been
audible through the roof. Bqt if the voice had been a
Gaiety girl’s voice it would have said “ ’Ear, ’ear.” “ I
went into a music ’all,” warbled Faust, whose pale-mauve
fleshings left Marion Burton’s hist,oric grey tights simply
nowhere for general effect and what-do-you-call-it.
N.S.W. Art Society held their yearly conyersazipne on
7tii inst. in lire Society’s sky-high quarters. By the way,
“ con versa (zeeonay ” is a misleading name for these
crush; s, because you, never get a chance pf sitting from
start to finish.
It was impossible to identify dresses. I; had a vague
idea that a very large lady wasn’t wise to wear pea-green ;
and another ip yellow, covered wjth stiff white tarietap
rose, looked like an animated toilet-table.
Lightning sketches, (hut one artist tcok quite fifteen
minutes over his !) and music, pictures and a buffet syem
tp be the stereotyped relaxations.of the disciples of. Art-
hut I think the mpsie a mistake. It, is, simply wicked to
a,sk artists like Deslouis, Kowalski an<j I’onssanl to con-
tribute mi a little acousticless room crowded wiph people
and pictures. A string hand on the stairs, wop Id be ever
so much more suitable.
The officers of,the A.J.S. Bank (Sydney) gav.e a musical
and.dramatic entertainment at the New Oddfellows’ Hall
last Friday, in t|ie presence of a vast invited throng.
There are one or two, nice \\oices in the A.J.5,., hut thp
youth who attempted “Come into the Garden, Maud”-
ought really to leave off thinking that the sun rises and
sets behind his untrained, tenov, and I would like diffi-
dently to suggest,to the “Star.of Bethlehem” songster*,
that a baritone who produces a different quality in every
register, would be wise if he got a competent person to
show him where his voice really comes from. But the
entertainment, was interesting—bank shows always are.
You keep wondering all the time who looks likely to he
the next man to skip out for Honolulu !.
A. H. Lawrence relates that once when,he was playing
curate in “The New Magdalen” the “star” part was
going like fun, and after one of ,tpe big scenes he compli-
mented her, off, upon the realign?.she was putting into it.
“Ah! yes!” the lady melodianiatically replied, “I|Can,
perhaps, play, this rifle because I am a Mercy Merrick.”
Fruit, from the date of Eve’s pippin downwfirds, has
been the medium of . a good many things,, and ,a,N.S. W.
orange-grower got a free advt. in a, morning paper, the
other day, out of the fact that his mother wp-ote and told
him that Australian oranges were a penny apiece in
England. That was the real gist of, the thing—but he
put it more elaborately. “ By, a letter I .received froii) my
mother, Mrs. Dash-Jobkins, of Dash Lodge, Blank, sister
of Dr. Hyphen, Bishop of Asterisk,” &c., &c. ’Twas ever
thus. Hew I do like to see a man dragging his dis-
tinguished maternal uncle down into a plain, unvarnished
fruit report 1.
The fun and frolic on mail-steamers must sometimes
verge on the Hilarious, if one can he)ie\ e all the
stories one hears. For instance, I am told that on a recent
voyage a certain section of the first salooners had a very
scriramagy time one moonlit night. A vivacious hut
portly matron was sleeping on deck when one or two mad
wags conceived the idea of softly tying a rope to a leg of
the lounge and hauling the whole thing along the deck.
But owing to the ’dupois of the lady the rope snapped,
and then a hold spirit actually tied the cord round the
matron’s ankle and hauled her out of the chair. She
awoke then, of course—hut the story doesn’t end with
anybody dangling from the yardarm.
Talking about ships. There is nothing new under the
sun, certainly, but surely that is no reason why people
should go on deliberately perpetrating old sea jokes with
dreadful monotony. Passengers per mail-boat wiP, 1 am
sure, feel grateful to me for pointing out to young Moods,
en route, that to pin “ not wanted on the voyage ” labels
on to the backs of skittish lady passengers is i ow rococo.
It was considered screamingly funny for the first few
hundred times, but now the youth who is seen sneaking
about the deck chair of the ship-flirt with a gummy white
label, runs a great risk of being dropped gehtly down the
coalhole.
People must not forget that St. Vincent’s annual hal*
takes place in the Centennial ‘Hall on 19th inst., in the
presence of Lord and Lady Jersey and a string of nola-
bilities. Also, that the deserving charity, “The Boys'
Brigade,” is to be helped along by a public ball in the
Centennial Hall on 27th Sept. Vice-regali(,y gives patron-
age and presence, and tickets are selling like fish in Lent.
Apropos hops—a correspondent gives me the outline of
a fearful incident (hat happened at a Queensland hall'
quite recentl?*. After the mazy waltz he and she mean-
dered into a summer-house, and somebody softly locked
them in. Now, if they had been only in for a five
minutes’ cooler, the trick would have been discovered
at once - blit as she had been parting Ins hair in
the middle, time simply Hew, and the barred exit
wasn’t discovered for an hour. Then the frantic
noise he made trying to break out brought all the guests
on to the scene (as always happens at awkward moments
on the stage), and when somebody opened the door the
male miscreant simply smiled an embarrassed smile and,
came out picking ear-wigs off his coat-sleeves, but the
lady’s mamma had to go in and bring the other weep-
ing culprit out. N.B.— This is, probably, the only refuta-'
tion of the theory that men are ever so much more bash-
ful than women.
Sydney has just started a “Beefsteak Club,” to he a
strictly Bohemian aggregation, actors being especially l
enjoined to join. I don’t know whether the rooms are
furnished yet, hut an inaugural supper has been swallowed
and the chib motto fixed upon : “ Intellect, Amusement 1
and Economy in Latin, of course, but Xam sorry they
have given beautiful Thrift the third place. Meanwhile,
the popular Sydney “all-night Supper Club” continues
to be the Pitt-street winkle-stall—in sober earnest.
I am told that at the recent Brisbane Amateur Turf
Club races the quietly-dressed and decent ly-mannered J
women were burlesque artistes, and the hand-painted,
loud-voiced syrens were society blots. I am asked to
mention this lest any of the r.remc-dc-la crirtte may have •
unjustly been suspected of being “ brazen hussies.”
Miss Myra Kemble finished up her short season at Syd-
ney Opera House on 9th inst. before a very large audience.
A beautiful daffodil shower bouquet was given to Miss
Kemble by ‘-'foir of her ruffians,” and (lie proceedings
generally wound up with Mine cheers. On the same
evening the Opera C \ concluded its triumphant career at
Her Majesty’s before a crowded house, with the theatre*
party nuisance in fu'l swing. One mob gabbled right
through the opera(“ Yeomen of the Guard”) regardless
of the basilisk glances of surrounding sufferers.
A Governor of Tit ipu will do-appreciates the in-
artistic ensemble he presents to the worshipper * f manly
beauty. Requested to have his—well, say piotur ‘painted
for an exhibition he looked his bowing suppliant squarely
in the eye and asked simply ; “ What do you want It for?
I am so ugly.”
Yours affectionately,
SAPPNO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Faust up to Date.”
Garrick “ Alabama Minstrels."'
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING, WEEK.
Bijou “ A Village Priest.”
Princess's Walter Ben,tley Farewells.
Alexandra “My Sweetheart.”
There was a vast audience at Her Majesty’s
(,Sydney) on Saturday night when the Gaiety com-
pany started its,garish career with. “Faust up to
Date.” It was, not a specially discriminating
crowd,at the early stages,pf the show, for, during
t,he first act, it manifested a. reckless tendency to
cheer for everybody and everything; but later on
it gathered itself together apd settled down to
screech to the bitter end for Lonpep and Alice
Leamar. It screeched in a. perfunctory way for
some of the others, but for these two it yelled all
it w.as able to. “Faust ” itself is the smallest part
of the show. It has a Hn-de-siecle mephistopheles
in it, with a small “m ” and a red plug hat,
which D eminently suited for a generation that
believe in a devil as its devil-haunted
fathers used to do. Heis the only reasonably definite
individual in the cast, and even lie isn’t definite
enough to take an, affidavit upon ; the balance is
loose arid unattached gorgeonsiiess and “'karara-
boom-de-py.” “Faust” is a burst, of red-painted
and ai;t-decorated frenzy ; ; a mad panorama with
its hair on fire and fireworks in, its tail, It. leaves
behind, ft a dizzy vision, concerning an endless
processipn of, opium-eaters, nioiiarehs, barmaids,
dudes, legs, professional beauties, prophets, uiono-
rpaniacs, dervishes, gods, hogs, gas-lights, soldiers,
drunkards, deranged wattle, chameleons, gladiar
tors, and, the big, r,ed bottles escaped, out of a,
thousand chemists’ windows. It suggests a fight,
between an, art gallery and a wholesale jewelJery
emporium ap much as.anything else, and it doesn’t
even suggest that very, distinctly. The grey-
bearded lichens of old ago have grown in the
chinks of its senile jokes, and the dialogue is
feeble, and the songs arc pot too brilliant, and
almost the only scrap of music which lives in
ope’s recollection after lie has fallen dizzily down
MISS VIOLET VARLEY.
(Williamson’s Opera Company.)
the stair and pot away, is the little duet between
Martha and the evening-dress devil in the top-
hat. Also, the show, which travels furiously in
the first,act, drags a good deal in tho. second, and
the famous “coster song ” is a weariness in the
operatic flesh.
■# # #
Alice Lcamar’s dancing is the feature
which brings down the house more than all the
rest of the exhibition combined.. T.hat little, lady,
dances as nd other person of our acquaintance,
ever danced before,’ and her style is partly that of,
a spider" getting’ enthusiastically off a hot stove
and partly that of tlie native kangaroo with
golden hair trying to break a record over a series
of fences, and singing as lie gobs. If she doesn’t
hit her eye with her feet some night, of get her
boots entangled in her back-hair, all will'be well.
Lonnen, who is the other leading feature, is a
pale and clean-shaved devil in dress clothes as
hereinbefore mentioned, with a great fund of
facial expression and a flow of soul. He is humor-
ous all the time, but be is most humorous when he
is buried in thought, and expressing his feelings
only with his eye and his legs, and when he
is not singing coster ditto*. Courtneidge is an
individual whose fun consists largely,of a rpd nose,
and,much ancient business and beer-froth, and
the present writer waits tp see him in a part where
the nose is of a more sober hue before pronouncing
judgment. Marion Hood is larger than she used
to be, and much of the glamour has gone out of
her; and the rest of tlie company is lost, ip the
general mdgnificence of tlie shivoo, and consists
mostly of liair and legs. Even Faust, perpetrated
in an 'agreeable fashion by Addie Conyers, is
hardly distinguishable in the rush. The amount
of hair in this performance runs into bales, and
tlie legs are laid on in tons, and at least 8 cwt. of
paint has been used in the scenery, with, results
that are too gaudy for adequate description. Also
the “book.of the opera” is a thing to be avoided.
It hasn’t got Alice Ijeamar’s frantic dance in it,,
nor Lonnen’s leg's and his expressive countenance,
nor the skirts, nor the hair, nor anything else but
the dry bones of the performance, and these, when
viewed in print, are very dry, and bony beyond
expression.
*****
Ovide Musin’s preliminary fiddle-de-dee in
Sydney Centennial Hall on Bth inst. was genuinely
successful; and one fervent musical girl exclaimed
that she had “ never heard the violin before in all
her life.” Musin excels in soft-sweet, true touches
•—the lingering and pulsing sort of thing that
might be called whimpering music by the atra-
bilious. His style is very caressing and a r
and that is why his opening- ?, „ delicate,.
Haydn,” was a slight disappointment 'T en " (k
composition should be a tour-de-forc'a A eot ? ard ’ s
table encore chased every item te,. \ inevi ‘
Musin plays goes deeper than, your weskit ‘ ateveis
T . * *
Louise Tanner s, light,, rather wooden v t
carefully polished and grained skv-hhl, <! ’ but
showed off its compass in Frock's B ** A of)rano ’
Variations,” which is rather advanced i’ ll ’ ;ukl
and; mechanical—but an encore had t.. ? Xf:rc . ,se -y
Her next item, “ The Vow,” was abr.mt i RltVen-
late, and disappointing, but the “ p v «l l a ,’"! l } ltlcu ,:
(Herold) with violin obligato, by Musin wi ft
vocal gem of the night. Miss Tanner * t ,'l
always be supported by the fiddle for the 1
that is lacking in ker voice is supplied Wfi 801,1
gut. Eduard Scharf is an ideSceompLbt
gets through his- solos in a handy drawi
way that makes it quite positive that HalH’*
wreath of Australian geebung is safe so far.
*# * *
On Saturday night the old, familiar dom es-
sion sat down heavily upon Sydney Opera House,
and George Forbes gave np the unequal struggle,
and retired from, the held. Any individual who,
wants to elevate the drama in, Sydney is ~.11
invited to apply to. a solicitor in PR t street. who,
is prepared, to, let. the premises upon. eqpitabW
terms. Sydney, in its present desolation can
only support one burlesque troupe and a f
minstrel shows, and even these latter are not ti., ,
prosperous. The old board with, the TegSl
“standing room only” has. now, got. a waterfall
painted on the back of it, and is. utilised, for
scinery; when, it will bo wanted: again for ite
original purpose no one knows. What will happen*
when the Criterion and the Roy-1 are again in
working order, and the Lyceum' is finished is a
mystery ; but the probabilities are that gaunt
Famine disguised, in a black, tail coat will roost-in,
at least two of these marble halls,,and, positively
refuse fjo go, out. ' ' *
-:if te *
The. veteran Mr.-.. Charles. H., Burfkrt?
makes his “last appearance on. any stage ” on,
Monday afternoon (September 10th h when a,
benefit will be tendered to him at Sydney Garrick
Governor; Jersey,.the Ministry, tUe Mayor, andii
aldermen, of Sydney, Dan O’Connor and! many
Other celebrities* will be TH't-iscnt,
and Aidermattißainford oftir
ciates. as. stage-manager., The-
programme consists of a new.
extravaganza by. Messrs. Shine-,
and Wal ton ; a minstrel per-
formance by the Alhambra com-
pany an. act from the “ Mer-
chant- of Venice,”' with; Mr.
Burford as Shylock the come-
dietta, , “Turn Him. Out,” by
li. H, L.evien,, M.L.A.,. .1...
Tolano, and others, and various,
other items.. The, Bulletin"
devoutly trusts that, handsome-
financial results will ensue-.-,
* Sfc *
The Alabama Minstrels are',
still making bread-and-.scrape at
Sydney Garrick, and various,
other variety shows are taking;
arms against: a sea of troubles
with as much success as the-
timesad m it of., Daniel Tracey,,
at the Gaiety, seems tabe taking
more arms than the rest* hut;
that is all the difference,.
* * *
“ A Village Priest ” struck;
fire from the first night audi-
ence, at Melbourne Bijou. For.
once in a way, the. B. and 8.,
company have abandoned. their-
familiar pastime of, hiding in*
casual cupboards and crawling
under the table. The absurd!:
young married man. who. tears-
his hair, and the baldheaded
uncle with an amorous eye arc.
nowhere to be seen in “A.
Village Priest.” Grundy’s five-
act play is a tragedy pure and
simple, a tragedy free from
bloodshed, indeed, but founder
on a murder committed by »■
ipan who died long ago. And the
striking artistic success achieved
by the ol.d. Bijou, favourites in.
tins solemq event, p«.>fyre at) an,dien.ee accustomed .
to think of them ns highland lpw comedian?, jprmsti
be well deserved. ynfpytunajtely, the verdict ati
Melbourne first-nighters seldom goes far towards-
determining the fate of a, serious play, A critical!
house will rise at good acting in powerful situa-
tions, but the body politic, has little soul for a'
story whose pathos is more than skin-deep, and i»
which the evil-doer doesn’t eventually get hand
cuffed, Qn Saturday tWO pr three of the curtain i
falls were followed by great demonstrations,.
One can scarcely imagine the outbreak of fury
that would have greeted the appearance of the.
villain if he hadn’t been so dead, all the time. The-
miscreant’s, absence was a grievous disappointment
foy,the gallery.
# « #•
“ A l , Village? Priest ” (taken from the:
French) is founded on the. iniquity of,a famous
judge. 11 is sins are visited upon everybody con-
cerned in the play, and as a source of all round,
woe there is nothing to touch him on the modern,
stage. An escaped convict, , who. rushes on at.
intervals and conceals himself,in-a long ulster,.
has for nineteen years been expiating the murder
committed by this dead ornament of the Bench.. The
corpse, thus i mproperly avenged, was the father on
tin; ingenue who subsequently gives her heart to the
judge’s son, and her mother is,repenting, in a half-
and-half, fashionable manner, the fact that she
formerly carried on with the.parent of her would-
be son-in-law. The good priest,, having, received!.
thi> death-bed confession of the judicial slaughterer,
and also having granted absolution to his paramour, ,
is weighed down with the, awful knowledge"
that things are getting very mixed. - A doubt as •
to whether the judge’s son hasn’t really contem-
plated marriage with his own half-sister is not
cleared up, however, and the, pfiest’s approval ot .
this intended union, in the. first, instance, 18 a ‘
decidedly weak spot in a complicated narrative.
Towards the finish it occurs to.the priest .that he
ought to break the sea! of the, coni’ ssional aim 1
clear the name of the hunted “ lag” in the ulstci,
but he probably wouldn't see any necessity f (l1 ’ s( | ‘
doing if the judge's son hadn’t already discoveiec
that Ins wicked papa wilfully .sent the wrong man 1
to penal seivitud.e. The priest is a model o
virtue, yet he allows an,innocent wretch, to rot m '
gaol for 1!) years rather than break h:s clcncm •
oath. At last he appeals to Heaven for a mirac c
to teach him his duty, and in the pfde glare o
stage moonlight a leaf of his Bible is turner
over by the invisible hand of Providence o
by a string, and then the priest feels impelled -
“split.” The results of the miracle are not em -


THHEIE
NtWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(OKCIAMSEU 1845)
:S A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
0l: er ?,// 'hwuary, 189:2, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, ami its SURPLUS
IttonZ la yd'ities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
ance Go. in the world.
c °Hclngf°i S e ARCEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
ve y proving the superior excellence of its policies.
01e insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOBIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
UOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
After dinner, smoke a G N U N Darling.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROU6HES & WATTS
(LIMITED),
KILLIA.It!> TAKLE #1 ANIII'ALTIJItEIIS.
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and Indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND.
Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips, &c., &c.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time.
Address:—
8 Bond Street, Sydney,
utly satisfactory. The convict goes back to
0 1 to complete his sentence, the young lovers
mrt for ever, the “guilty mother ” remains much
[he same as before, the priest renounces the
Church to the deep regret of the judge’s widow (a
Mind lady who never knows what’s going on), and
the convict’s daughter has nothing left to live for.
Tn fact, nobody seems to have anything left to live
f ori Blank misery reigns around. Titheradge
iv’ eS a noble and a rather Irvingesque perform-
ance of the name-part. Sometimes he is fine, at
other times he is finer, and, take him for all in all,
he improves his reputation. Brougli beats his
previous best even more decisively. The escaped
prisoner, consumed with a desire to assert his
Innocence, and proclaim the injustice of the judge
who sentenced him, seems to be there in the
person of Brough. If he had been brought over
from England expressly to play this part, he
would be accepted as a brilliant, emotional actor,
an d the Horstral Salong would give a tea-party in
his honour. Cecil Ward is dignified and manly
a s the troubled son, and the ladies, of whom Miss
Watt-Tanner has the hardest work, can be singled
out for distinction in future notices. The play
ought to run.
At Melbourne Athenaeum, last Week, Mrs.
Dr. Brainerd Ryder, a scholastic looking Yankee
lady, with no idea of dramatic effect, delivered a
series of three lectures on Hindoo, Parsee, and
Mahoromedan life in India, as she presumably saw
it through her spectacles. The entertainment
invites direct comparison with that of the Von
Finkelstein, and suffers severely in consequence.
The massive charmer from Jerusalem was a glib
talker, who persuaded the audience that she was
painting 1 her impressive word pictures from
nature, but Mrs. Ryder is a cold-blooded doctor,
addicted to referring to notes, and connecting her
remarks with “er-r-r.” The matter of the lec-
tures, though always more or less interesting,
seems to have been collected from books.
Her perorations are particularly suggestive
of something one has read, and her way
of walking off when it’s all over leaves you to
feel surprised at finding that she doesn’t come
back and say something -else. In short, Mrs.
Rvder is lacking in several essential characteristics
of the successful show-woman. Yon Finkelstein
1.193(3 but a few supernumeraries to illustrate her
yarns, and displayed them to good purpose. In
this case the platform is loaded up with unin-
telligent people, disguised as natives of the East,
who illustrate nothing so forcibly as the lecturess’s
ignorance of stage management. Hence Mrs,
Doctor Ryder falls flat. She should hire another
lady to till her place, and then perhaps the des-
cription of how the sacred vultures swarm to the
Tower of Silence and pick every vestige of a
Parsee corpse a way from its skeleton (in the space
of from 30 to 33 minutes by the Waterbury) might
provoke a passing shudder,
** * *
“Silver King” has fetch d them every
night at the Princess’, and there seems to be no
financial reason why “Hamlet” should take its
place on Saturday. Walter Bentley is understood
to have come to the end of his engagement, how-
ever, and the management couldn’t let him depart
without appearing in the usual round of popular
impersonations. Managements were ever thought-
ful in this respect. Therefore, Walter Bentley
was induced to prolong his engagement for six
nights, in order that an anxious populace might
get passing glimpses of him in “Hamlet,” “The
Bells,” and “David Garrick.” The last-named
will be played for his farewell benefit on Friday,
23rd.
** 4 *
The Alexandra threatens to throw open
its large, coach-house doors again on Saturday,
under the management of R. C. Greenwood. Miss
Maribel Greenwood, supported by sister Agatha
and a company will appear as “ My Sweetheart,’’
the “stage director ” being Greenaway.
** * *
Harry Rickards, Whitburn, Madame Yin-
eeni with her violin, and other items too numerous
to mention are keeping business lively at St.
George’s Hall, while the rival halls are alive in a
less pronounced degree. Concert caterers increase
in number, and next Saturday the Town Hall will
be thrown open as a shilling promenade to the
strains of fifty picked instrumentalists, under the
conductors!}!p of Julius Hen;. Eitzgerald's circus
is meanwhile touring successfully within a five-
mile radius of Melbourne G.P.O,
* * *
The Prahran (Melb.) Amateur Operatic
Society have this year given a more than credit-
able performance of “ Les Cloches.” In respect
of chorus-singing the show soared rather above,
than below, ordinary professional form, and the
principals were mostly guilty of a huge vocal
success. Also, the acting of Germaine, Serpo-
G the Bailie, Gobbo, and more beside, indicated
that Victorian native talent in the comic opera
me is worth more managerial attention than it
seems to get. Mr. James Ure, as musical-
ireetor, takes chief honours for this capital
ample of what an amateur company can accom-
P ish m a town hall, but there are honours enough
Pgo all round. The scenic artist, Fred. Ohamber-
n > supplied them with such backgrounds as a
urcion, a Spong, or a Goatcher, wouldn’t blush to
come forward and take a “ call ” for.
** * *
n': 00 Blascheck’s ben. at the Bijou, last
Hm. ay ’ was a fairly lucrative function, the
friend' VS luusle ' b | K in force to support their young
•** & *
tuvpf , () concluded his Bananaland
-b lectures at Toowoomba, when he was
whim H ’ ue ? b y fbe Oasis Club, every member of
m 18 branded with an Arab name. Fifty
nu)[b J e e 1S d° wn > ;u ‘d Max was enrolled with
, B Pmndour and barbaric verse. “Re-
Ai-ib i ax O’ilell has eaten our salt, and an
ub henceforth is he.”
„ i|^
provf^ e j Moore, with “Struck Oil,” is
fkeatrp’ a i - a u V at ie Adelaide Royal, and the
which was a barren wilderness during
Bland Holt’s season, is now a sea of faces. Broken
German and pigeon-English are preferred to the
virtues, vices, and variations of modern melo-
UFRIUSi!
At Poverty Point.
The Gaiety Co., 80 strong-, arrived in Sydney by steamer
from Brisbane on Friday afternoon, and the Comic Opera
Co., 75 strong, sailed for Maoriland at midnight of the
same day. Their season was the biggest ever Known in
Sydney.
The chief “ mute ” at the recent big Chinese funeral at
Sydney was a well-known tragedian whom the new school
of acting has pushed from his stool.
An at one time well-known and prosperous Australian
circus-master went last week to the “Home for the
Decayed ” at Liverpool, N.S.W.
Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis has succeeded fairly as Mrs.
Oatley, in the “ Jealous Wife,” in London. By the way,
the jealousy used to he all on the other side.
The severest thing the Melbourne evening papers have
to say of any play : “ This drama is not devoid of literary
merit.
Helen Hart (leothress) modestly explains that wit and
humour is a gift which she is linable to hide even at a
Cremation meeting,
“ Confusion ” is advertised as “ Derrick’s masterpiece/’
for the reason that nobody ever heard of Derrick in con-
nection with any other piece.
One of the most ingeniously nasty show-notices we
have seen for some time is Sydney Evening News’ critique
on Musin—a friend of Wiegand, by the way.
When Miln was playing Shakespeare, in Melbourne, he
once gave gratis the whole dress-circle of the Opera
House for a theatre-party given by the proprietors of a
local paper. All the guests, excepta few “in the know,”
worried theirbrains by abstruse calculations as tohovvmuch
the great and gorgeous picnic cost their hosts, while
Miln got the credit of having attracted an intelligent and
well-dressed crowd by the intrinsic merit of his acting.
“ Violin taught by a lady.”—Advt. Next pleasantest
thing to their shaving you.
John Watson, M.P. (Q.), advocates the imposition of a
tax of 3d. per head upon all persons who attend theatres.
That would kill off the deadheads, anyhow'.
Max O’Rell has given a sort of a benefit to Brisbane
hospital. No man know's when he may be crippled by-
falling over one of his own jokes.
Though the “Fringe of Society” has been one of very
few paying successes this season, says The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, I do not vary my opinion that it
is a “ rotter,” as Fred. Leslie would say. It has been a
success, but a succis de curiosite. All the world went to
see Mrs. Langtry’s gowns, and her marvellous suite of
diamond and turquoise ornaments —the gift, it is said, of
Lord Lurgan. They are certainly worth looking at, and
are the envy of all womankind,
London Gaiety Co. fixed the prices for their proposed
night in Newcastle (N.S.W.) rather too high, and the
booking results were so meagre that the management
cried off. Newcastle likes its pleasure cheap. The
local Musical Union announces the performance of “La
Fille de Madame Angot ” next w'eek.
Kate Bishop (Mrs. Lohr) is teaching elocution in
Sydney.
Said that Emily Soidene is likely to re-open the now
closed Sydney Opera House with a yet-to-be-gathered
opera company.
Harry Rickards’ only son “Syd.” died on Friday (9th)
and was buried at Waverley the following day. This must
have been a great blow to his doting parents.
Clara Thompson (Mrs. Bracy), sister to the evergreen
Lydia, takes Klsie Cameron’s place (on the conclusion of
the latter’r engagement) with the Comic Opera Co. during
the Maoriland tour.
Charles Holloway has organised a Co.—including Alice
Deorwyn (Mrs. Holloway), Mr. and Mrs. (Constance
Deorwyn) Richard Stewart, Oily Deering, and others—for
a Maoriland tour. They take Harvey’s plays—the most
melodramatic stuff known—and some of Pettitt’s, along.
St. Clair, agent.
“The red-headed Paderewski ” is what an English paper
now calls him. This is getting down the ladder with a
vengeance. Presently he’ll be briefly described as
“•Carrots.”
Armes Beaumont, the brilliant veteran tenor, is about
broke. Another victim of the land-boom. A tenor isn’t
fitted to go land-booming.
Melba “opened her mouth too wide” for Arthur
Garner.
Mrs. Shaw, “ the whistling wonder,” comes to Aus,
tralia if she survive her Indian tour.
It is stated that George Ooppin, before G. V. Brooke
sailed in the London, insured the tragedian’s life for
£3OOO.
Bathurst (N.S.W.) has three musicians all of the same
name and each a good man—W. H. Naylor, C. V Naylor,
and C. W. Naylor. And how the local press mixes up the
trio !
Queen Victoria visited Buffalo William’s circus the
other day, and was so gratified by the yelling and the
painted Indians and the attack on the Deadwood coach,
that she gave a gold seal to Hon. Bill Cody, and a valu-
able diamond scarf-pin to the cowboy with the longest
hair and the most terrific whoop. Victoria’s taste in
theatrical matters is pretty low-down. If Buffalo Bill had
been a fatal accident in a coal-mine instead of a vociferous
circus-clown he would only have got a collect-telegram
expressing sympathy'.
Stubbs gives a fair original play at Melbourne Alexandra,
but where is the local colour?
Mrs, Walter Bentley is not coming out to Australia,
after all.
An Australian lady is now, as the result of false pre-
tences, nursing carefully a piece of ragged, old tweed,
She was a great admirer of Jennie Lee’s “ Jo,” one of the
finest pieces of character acting ever witnessed, and,
paying the actress a farewell visit, begged as a souvenir
a fragment of his ragged garments. The actress’s boxes
were all packed and corded, but, anxious (o oblige, she
ran downstairs. On her way she met the housemaid.
Ha 1 an idea ; the floorcloth was the very colour, and it
didn’t take long to tear away and dry a scrap.
J. L. Hall, son of the comedian, is principal man of the
Melbourne Tramways’ Dramatic Club, and his brother is
also a member—Capt. Ginger in rehearsal.
George Darrell, at latest, was arranging to begin a tour
with the “Sunny South” next year, commencing with a
week at the Grand, Islington.
At Westminster Aquarium, Dan Sullivan, standing on a
platform, lifts a 12cwt, elephant with his teeth.
Maggie Moore contemplates a private visit to Chicago
Exposition next year.
George Walton has been engaged for the Pantomime
George Rignold intends putting up at Sydney Her
Majesty’s Theatre on Boxing Night.
Harry Rickards announces that the rumour as to his
intention of travelling once more arose from his having
lately sold off some superfluous furniture. He has now
engaged a crowd of new European artists, including
Misses Marie Loftus, Georgie Wright, Messrs. Brown,
Newlands, and Leclerq, and proposes to boom the show
business on a larger scale than ever.
“ The Lost Paradise,” in rehearsal at Melbourne Prin-
cess’, is a comedy-drama of great American vogue, about
to be acted in London. Williamson expects it to hook on.
When a certain tragedian visited Newcastle (N.S.W.)
lately, it was the pleasing duty of a lady member of his
Co. to use the curling-tongs on his amaranthine looks.
Came Swain, while doing some high kicking at the top
of a flight of stairs lately, got too near the edge and fell
all the way down. Kicked herself downstairs, in fact.
The Maggie Oliver memorial was unveiled in Waverley
Cemetery last Sunday by Mr. Slattery, N.S.W. Minister of
Mines.
Apropos the cable re Frances Saville’s brilliant success
at Brussels, Madame Fanny Simonsen writes us that her
daughter did not appear with the Froliques in Sydney,
for she was then still at school at St. Kilda. She appeared
in Sydney a year and a-half later in English opera, and
played Lslia, in “Satanella,” Wanda, in “Grand
Duchess,” &c. She appeared later in opera bouffe With
Majeroni and Wilson—never with the Froliques.
Mrs. Potter and Kyrle Bellevv are trying to arrange
another Australian tottr.
When Alfred Clint was helping W. j. Wilson to paint
scenery for the old Victoria Theatre, Sydney, Clint one
day said : “ Wilson, I wish you would let me away to-
morrow afternoon if you cap. I’ve a little bit of an
engagement.” “ Well,” replied Wilson,you know how
we’re rushed; but is it very important?” “No, not
very,” said Clint, I had arranged to get married
to-morrow, that was all.” Later on, Habbe,
the scenic artist, who in those days somehow never
did cotton to Clint, paid Wilson a visit and engaged
with him in conversation, but took no notice whatever oit
little Clint, who was also present. Noticing this, Wilson
after a time said ; “ Habbe, you know Mr. Clint, surely? ”
“What did I hear you say ?” exclaimed Chut —“ Mr.
Habbe'! Mr. Habbe ! The great artist, Mr. Habhe ! and
here am t in his presence all the time with niy hat on !
Let me apologise—let me grovel.” And off went Clint’s
hat and down he went On his marrow-bones in the
presence of the discomfited Habbe.
A ghastly showman story from Bendigo: A certain
financier rented a shop to two men who Wanted to exhibit
a monster shark. But the weather Was hot, and the
deceased fish went bad the second day, and, finding that
the perfume destroyed business, the pair decamped, and
when the financier went round for his rent he found
nothing but an abandoned shop and a decaying ITcwt. of
horror prone upon the floors Then he hired three men to
bury the accursed object, but being afterwards informed
by a friend that shark’s teeth were valuable, he dug it
up again in the hope of recovering his rent —only to find
that the ruffianly piscatorial syndicate had extracted
every tooth from the festering mass before they Went;
whereupon he had to pay for a second funeral, and was
fined for creating a nuisance, arid all his other tenants
have left on account of the odour which hangs about the
shop and refuses to be shifted.
A Garrick (Sydney) gallery boy, giving gratis a little
thing of his own, between acts, the other evening, when
asked to “ blige again,” replied; “D’yer think I’m goin’
to spile my voice for such a set Of larrikins as you are !”
Mackintosh, a popular London actor, is a native of
Fitzroy, Melb., but never acted in Australia*
Nellie Veitch teaches elocution at twenty Melbourne
schools, and has taught Aim6e Moore. Miss Veitch is a
two-faced woman (all woman are two-faced)—she can
actually transform her features into two distinct per-
sonages, according as Thalia or Melpomene is needed,
and her photographs pass for entirely different indivi-
duals. She acted with Genevieve Ward in Maoriland.
The Royal Pantechnicon of Science and Art was the
title under which the London Alhambra first opened, and
there was prayer by a clergyman !—but now it’s devoted
to nothing but legs.
A London writer ironically says that it is evidently pos-
sible for an actress to live in a manner that is above sus-
picion and yet win a blue-blooded husband.
Little Martin Simonsen, recently from ’Frisco with a
fresh “star” co., being asked by other Yankee entre-
preneurs whether he would advise them to try their
luck in Australia, said: “No, ray frenis, you vill not do
goot; you may draw a full house for von consecutive
night, but certainly for not longair.”
Lynch Family of Bellringers celebrated its “ silver ”
anniversary of “showdom” at Castlemaine, Vic., on 23rd
August last, their first appearance having been in Geelong
(Vic.) on the date named in’67. With the exception of
Henry Lynch, senior, the five members of the first
“family” were all natives of Australia, or, to be par-
ticular, of Geelong ; the other four are still “ ringing,”
but the old man has retired on his laurels. Harry Lynch,
jun., now manages the “family,” which is shortly
travelling into N.S. Wales and Sydney-wards. The
Lynches have many times traversed Australasia, and have
had gay successes in India, China, Japan, Batavia, and
the East generally.
They now call it “ begeflt,”
Harvey Adams, brother of Francis Adams,
died at Brisbane, on Tuesday morning, of con-
sumption, against which he had long and
courageously battled.
The Father of the N.S.W. Bar—G. B.
Simpson, Q.C., has at last secured an acting-
appointment to the Supreme Court Bench —during
the absence of Sir William Windeyer in Queens-
land.
Mrs. Beetou says: “Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. 6d., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and bettor wines than
French clarets, and they are only one-third of the
price.
IRISH SONG, A LA MARTIN,
Dedicated to the Gaiety Company,
Billy Doyle had joined the blest
So I dress’t up in my best,
For I mint to see him planted in the ground,
Shure there wasn’t no mistake,
It was quite a shtoylish wake,
And the mourners kept the whisk}’ flyin’ round.
The corpse was laid out straight
In his shroud so clean and nate,
And the candies they was burnjn’ bright and oi-Iy,
Whilst the women tore their hair,
Jest by token of despair,
As we waked the cowld remains of Billy Doyley,
C no rus-
h’s crack f crack ! crack ! ( shillela / hs' rattle)
We shall never see him back
In a world that’s moighty troublesome and toil-y,
The dogs they sit and howl
For the Devil’s got the sovyl
Of the boy who bore the name of Billy Doy-ley,
The corpse he held his tongue
Though the melodies we sung
Was enough to resurrect him from the dead,
And Finn, from County Down,
Who’s a drummer of renown,
Plgyed a tune upon the late-lamented head.
Sez I, “That isn’t roight,”
And invoited Finn to foight,
And, bedad ! we pasted one another roy’lly,
But I noticed, later on,
That the livin’ man was gone,
And I’d given four black oiyes to Billy Doylejb
Chorus—
It’s crack ! crack ! crack ! (business), &c , &o,
Sez Murphy, vvid a wink,
“ Come, pass along the drink,
And lave the knocked-out party where he fell,
For anyone could shniff
That the gintleman fought shtiff,
Though I’ll own he took his gruel party well.”
“ Be aisy, now !” sez Mick,
As he gave the corpse a kick,
Then the widdy reprimanded us so coy-ly: >
But I can’t remimber more.
For we slumbered on the (lure
Till the p’lice, bad luck! had buried Billy Doy-ley.
Chorus—
It’s crack ! crack ! crack !
We shall nivir see him back
In a world that’s moighty troublesome and toil-y,
The dogs they sit and howl,
For the Devil’s got the sowl
Of the bhoy who bore the name of Billy Doy-ley.
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISNER.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The 6pinioti of Peter Newtoil, Abe Hicken,
Nathan, and other supposed pugilistic critics of Mel-
bourne, published before the event, was that Sullivan
couldn’t possibly lose the fight with Corbett. The opinion
of ignorant, un-“ talented ” people was that any huge
beast who hadn’t half-drunk himself to death should be
able to knock out Johnel, and the general public knew
most about it. They always do. An intelligent shearer,
miner, town-bred clerk, wharf-labourer, or even a C.M.G.,
can generally judge, the merits of, say, oarsmen at prac-
tice a lot better than the cognoscenti, who have a horn
genius for picking the Wrong one. Ergo, the typical!
“ sport ” is badly off for brains.
Many of the Melbourne bookmakers talk of not
registering themselves again for courses where the total-
isator is likely to be at work this coming season. This is
very sad. Unfortunately, the bookmaker out of employ-
ment is tit for nothing except to stand at street-corners
and blaspheme.
# * *
There passed last year through official Queens-
land “totes” sums amounting to £565,000. The MTi-
wraith tax of 2£ per cent, on that would reach £14,225.
# # #
Totalisator “ divvies ” were all big in Adelaide
on Sep. 1. By putting £1 on every nag an investor could
have panned out a profit of £l4 on the day.
# # #
At a late Yass (N.S.W.) pigeon-match a good
shot, hut a had scholar, wished the secretary to enter him
“under a consumed name.” The secretary, equal to the
occasion, accordingly put him down as “ Burnt Jack. 71 It
was, he said, the only name he could think of under the
circumstances,
# # *
Melbourne Cup day is shown in the calendar as
that of “ All Saints.” There are two saints entered ; St.
Albans II and St. Blaise.
# * #
If Ferris plays with the next Australian Eleven
in England the patriotic sentiment will soon fade right
out of international cricket. Young Woods, the Cam-
bridge man, would seem more acceptable in the team
than Perris, inasmuch as he can pretend to be an Aus-
tralian abroad—though all his cricket has been learnt in
England. Ferris has fairly gone over to the enemy and
turned English while his play was still open to change its
nationality, so to speak, Murdoch and Spofforth will
always be Australian enough for any representative
eleven, but then they are too old, or rather too played-
out, to be desirable acquisitions.
* ‘ * #
Those keen Bristol people who went to such
expense to secure Ferris for Gloucestershire must be
sadly disappointed with their speculation, says an
English correspondent. The once famous county of the
Graces is almost at the bottom of the list this year, only
Sussex, which is out of all form, being below them.
Ferris is an expensive frost. He cost the rent of a house
whilst he was qualifying, and he had to he provided with
a billet, to keep him going when there is no cricket to
make expenses out of. I don’t think any other county
will be inclined to try the same experiment.
# # *
The cable reports of wonderful performances
by Woods or Ferris are growing monotonous. Neither of
the Australian-Anglo bowlers has a remarkable average
for the county season.
# * *
Spofforth is quite out of it now, He won’t even
play for the M.O.C.
» « •
It makes people think there must be something
in Titan, despite his recent fiasco, when every week there
is a paragraph in Melbourne Sportsman staling that
Hickenbotham says the stable haven’t backed the horse
for a penny,
* # #
Sydney Evening News : “ The circumstance of
a man having passed what is commonly regarded as the
prime of pugilistic life does not, it is true, always tell
conclusively against his chance of defeating an opponent
who happened to be younger, and who, in all other
respects, may be a pretty equal match for him. There
was, for example, the memorable case of Tom Sayers, who
was about thirty-five when he encountered Heenan, who,
besides being his junior by many years, was a giant in
comparison with the indomitable English champion.”
The Evening News, we hope, doesn’t, firmly believe that
Sayers beat Heenan, and that Sayers’ friends didn’t rusli
the ring and stop proceedings when they found their man
was hopelessly done for. That belief, however, is as
popular in Australia as the idea that the Prussians had
nothing to do with Napoleon losing Waterloo.
* * *
A =£2o a-side post-boring'match lately happened
on Eurongella Station (Thargomindah, Cj., way) between
James Hendry and Arthur Wessel, the posts being from
Sin. upwards in thickness and to be bored for five wires.
Hendry beat Wessel by 172 posts (or 800 holes) against
157 posts (or 785 holes) in 0} hours.
* * *
Baseball, played in Adelaide in the summer,
threatens to run cricket hard for popularity this season.
The youngsters are enthusiastic about the Yankee game.
(“ Sporting Notions ” continued on page 17.)
A THANKSGIVING HYMN.
[IN MEMORLAM-J. L. SOLLIVAS.]
Knocked out ! It is our firm belief
Th'kt Heaven blessed that scrimmage
'Which brought the Boston Pet to grief.
And smashed a brazen image.
■No more His Nibs will “ buy the bar ”
Or spiflioate a waiter 4
No guineas now to see him spar—
Pour second-rate pertater'l
Unloved, unlovely, cursing chunk
Of human beef and folly,
We saw him once, insanely drank—
He made us fnelancholy.
For \Vant of work to earn a era St,
Distressed, alas! too many,
Whilst this fat beast was On the bust.
Who never earned a penny.
Who couldn’t talk, or act, or think
A thing beyond salvation
Devouring meat and swilling drink
Upon his reputation.
An ideal shaped of foulest clay,
A god for rogUes’ devotion,
A shrine where Juggins used to lay
His offerings of "lotion,”
Bang hard the dram and ring the 1)011,
And shriek the joyful story
Another pug. has done Johnel
And won his crown of glory.
Knocked out! Of fame and “ friends ” bereft,
Tire oafs collapse is utter—
The “sports” proceed—the Slugger’s loft
To grovel in the gutter.


Wolke’s Schnapps. —Pure, Palatable, Perfect.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is
the best invigorator out.
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love
and cooling as his fan.
Wolfe's Schnapps—<£l orders.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe’s Schnapps-
ip
mMM
i
T
I
w
*****s**
H
m parts {few Jjfe and
PAMPHLETS, ILLUSTRATIONS and PULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION
—TC—
FROST & SHIPHAM,
462, 474 & 587 George Street, Sydney.
SOLE AGELTTS FOB AUSTBALIA-
«r ADVICE FREE.
Personal Items.
George Washington’s false teeth are to be
exhibited at Chicago.
Booth is a pawnbroker ! He can’t alienate
himself from the spout.
Sir Henry Parkes, now in his 78th year,
says he will revisit Mudgee 10 years hence.
Lord Salisbury is “ the first Prime Minister
of England who has worn a beard, for over 300
years. ”
Bonython, editor of the S.A. Advertiser*
wears a black frock-coat and belltopper all the
year round.
The Rothschildren have a maxim never to
deal with an unlucky man ; yet they are in with
some in Melbourne.
Is inebriety hereditary ? Turn up the
family history of the next legislator’s son who
hacks at his own larynx.
Railway-Chairman Smith is reckoned to
be the best player of solo-whist in Adelaide.
He gets plenty of practice.
A whale has been seen in the vicinity of
the Victorian Heads lately. Davies surely. We
heard he’d return like a whale.
The ling round the earth, as pictured on
the cover of the Review of Reviews, is, we believe,
Stead’s halo which has slipped down.
The treasurer of the Rockhampton (Q.)
Workers’ Union is named Pinkerton. It just
shows the eternal unfitness of things.
Supreme Court Judge Williams (Vic.) gave
up his bicycle in deference to Mrs. Grundy ; also,
the pulls he used to take on the Yarra.
Toohey, M.P., has a personal grievance
against Sir Dibbs, who, as a Tory knight, is not
likely to drink any more “colonial” beer.
It is again alleged that ex-Governor Sir
William JervoD, who has a station at Wellington
oi the Munay, contemplates entering S.A.
politics.
Ex-Premier Gillies speaks of a presenta-
tion portrait of Speaker Bent (Vic.) as “This
beautiful picture.” Rough on the portrait-
painter !
It is to be hoped that, for the sake of
artistic verisimilitude, Cotton’s friends left Sleath’s
blood and hair clinging to that silver-mounted
bludgeon.
The three leading members of the Holder
(S. A.) Ministry—Holder, Cockburn, and Gordon
—are the same age—42. Handyside is the only
Minister over 50.
Old George Thornton returned to Australia
by last French mailboat —a very different craft
from that in which he first arrived in Australia
with Captain Cook.
Rev. Dr. Bevan (£3O a week) is off soon
on another trip to Chicago Exposition. You see,
his piesence is imperatively demanded, for an im-
portant religious Conference.
M‘ll wraith’s people have been plumbers
in Ayr for nearly 200 years. His father was a
plumber. Heredity ! Ye gods ! what a light is
now cast upon his political career !
Nobody seems to know exactly why Mr.
John Nicholson, S.M., of Port Adelaide, resigned
his position so abruptly, but everyone is certain
that it was not for the reason assigned.
The late A. Hinckley, J.P. of Naracoorte,
S.A., was foreman of the jury which brought in a
verdict that “ the deceased died by the visitation
of God, accelerated by heart-disease.”
Curly Bellew figures as one of the cele-
brities in a recent copy of the Strand Alagazine,
and is pictured in three stages of loveliness.
Curly’s pa was a devil-dodger. Curly isn’t.
A London paper states that Mr. F. W,
Ward, late editor of Sydney D.T., has been
offered the management of a promising N.S.W.
Irrigation scheme. We presume this is Mulgoa.
Speaker Bent, in accepting that oil-paint-
ing of himself from a few devoted admirers, said
he had never done anything of which he felt
ashamed. One might say as much for an alligator
or a steam-roller.
Problem in Rule-of-Three : The shooting
of one clergyman by Thomas Walker, M.L.A,,
has made the said Walker a teetotaller. How
many clergymen would he have to shoot before be
became a Christian ?
Manager Hendry, the blind super, of
North Adelaide (S.A.) Industrial School for the
Blind, can read the time of day by any ordinary
watch with his sensitive fingers. He travels long
journeys Nortli without guide or escort.
Mr. S. D. Phelps, councillor-at-law of
New York, who has been some time in Australia,
prosecuting a trade-mark case, has returned to
America. It was a “treat” to see Mr. Phelps
expectorate the juice of a large “ quid.”
When Governor Norman was up North
last he invited everyone lie met to come and see
him in Brisbane when they were down. They
have been coming ever since in hordes, till they
say the old man begins to age visibly, and to wish
lie were dead.
“ On the occasion of some wedding the late
Robert Lowe began to descant on what he re-
garded as the absurdity of the marriage service.
‘When I married,’ he exclaimed, * all the worldly
goods with which I endowed my wife might have
been carried in a bundle over my shoulder.’ ‘ Ah,
but Robert,’ interjected Mrs. Lowe, ‘there was
your great intellect.’ * I certainly did not endow
you with that, dear,’ was his merciless rejoinder.”
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
It is generally supposed that Civil Servants
retire at 60 years of age. How then does it
happen that the N.S.W. Government has just
appointed, to a police-magistrateship, Mr. Henry
Byrnes, of Parramatta, who must be nearly, if
not quite, that age?
Harry Egerton, whilom editor of the
Temoea (N.S.W.) Independent, and whose dead
body was found the other day in the bush, was
one of the most sanguine of gold prospectors.
“My luck’s bad so far, but it’s bound to come
someday.” It has come.
“ General ’’ Booth asserts that he lives on
Is. a day, and generally obtains the shilling from a
friend. Also, he asserts that the Army is some
A 55,000 to the bad, wherefore it would appear
that the big drum is burst, bankrupt, stony, and
utterly and horribly “broke.”
Gladstone is the oldest Prime Minister
who has ever ruled England. “ Old Pam ” ran
him close, being 81. Gladstone is 83. Pitt was
the youngest man to hold the same office ; he was
Premier at 24. Gladstone was within a few days
of 59 when he first assumed the reins.
Apropos that big Melbourne libel-case.
You can’t stamp out a libel-action by making a
man insolvent. The damages which a man
recovers in Court as compensation for libels upon
his fair fame are legally as inalienable as his fair
fame itself, and cannot be attached in bankruptcy.
Specimen of Cardinal Moran’s neat rapier-
play in the late theological duel with Jawbone
Neild, M. P. : “Were the Jesuits one-half as bad
as Mr. Neild paints them, I should conclude that
he himself must be a Jesuit in disguise.” _ No one
but an Irishman could have conceived this “ half-
left-turn-and-‘now !’” sort of thrust.
Speight’s failure, in
railways, is abundantly
accounted for by his
failure in speculation.
How foolish to expect
that a man immersed in
building ventures, like the
Melbourne Rialto, could
govern the railroads with
the fag-end of his mind —
“ What news on the
Rialto? ” Three thousand
a year wasn’t enough to
secure to the country a
monopoly of the mighty
brain of Speight.
Millionaire Tyson
lent Queensland Govern-
ment <£200.000 at 5 per
cent., on Treasury bills,
and almost in the same
breath bought up Meteor
Downs at 10s. per acre.
So that in ten years,
without doing anything,
he will have had his
original money back, and,
its interest having paid
for the land, he will also
have the land, plus its
unearned increment for
nothing—provided people
don’t become wiser mean-
while.
Thomas Neill Cream,
the alleged English
poisoner, has a brow
that goes back in a steep
slope from his eyes to the
top of his head, which
then goes down in a per-
pendicular line thence to
his shirt collar, his entire
cranium being shaped
very like a triangle with
hair on it. A man with
a head like that generally
gets hanged for artistic
homicide by poison, while
the man whose cranium
is shaped like a bolster
and boils over at the ears
is hanged for brutal
murder with hob-nailed
boots.
The latest Victorian absconder was so
energetic a patron of temperance work, and took
so prominent a part in the affairs of his church,
that he was enabled to annex =616,000. Character-
istic scrap from his letter to the victims : —“I
have left behind me a mother, wife, sister and
child to incur the just vengeance of my angered
creditors.”
Premier Ballance (M.L.) is seriously ill,
and the chances are that Dick Seddon will be
Acting-Premier for the rest of the session. Seddon
is a man of brains, a good speaker, and a reason-
ably good democrat, but he has an aggressive way
about him like Johnel Sullivan, and the fierce
expression in his eye prevents him becoming
generally popular.
There is a consensus of opinion in London
that Munro should long ago have resigned the
Victorian Agent-Generalship. Retention of office
is, under the circumstances, a distinct injury, not
alone to Victoria, but to the whole of
Australia. Up to the Alunro epoch, not a breath
of scandal had assailed the character of any Aus-
tralian Agent-General.
A London correspondent of the Argu s
says that “ the Prince of Wales, by having himself
so constantly photographed with clothes on, has
done much to accelerate democratic and levelling
tendencies.” Democracy and Decency seem to go
hand-in-hand. If Albert Edward were to make a
point of being photographed without his clothes
on, the distinction between the classes and the
masses would be more marked, The Bulletin
supposes.
Mrs. O’Brien, the Beulah (Vic.) house-
keeper who poisoned her paramour, has been let
down with imprisonment for life, which, under
present regulations, means 20 years, with five
years’ mitigation for good behaviour. Airs.
O’Brien, if she lives, will be fair, fat, and 41 when
she emerges from her present retirement. Ihe
hanging of women appears to be practically
abolished.
Once again—for the fourth time ! —it is
cabled that Dr. Renwick, N.S.W. Commissioner
to Chicago Exhibition, “has been recommended
to Her Alajesty for the honour of knighthood.
Poor little thing ! “Dr. Renwick will remain m
London for some time yet in order to escape from
the cholera quarantine at New York. ” r l hat’s one
of the reasons, anyhow, why he will remain in
London.
George Coppin prides himself on being the
only survivor of the Victorian Legislative Council
of 1858, but the hon. George is a mere political
parvenu compared with the octogenarian James
Cowie. For some years past Mr. Cowie has been
the last relic of the original Council which met on
Nov. 6. 1856. Moreover, he was one of the thirty
members of the single-barrelled Legislature that
fired off the Victorian Constitution in 1851.
Squatter Russell’s fat volume, “The
Genesis of Queensland,” is a good example of the
way an alliterative writer will hafpon his favourite
letter-sound. For instance, “ I have paced again
that paradise pathless, that pen of punishment,
that penal patch within which pity is but a poor
phantom in rags and pain soon palsies the prison
pulses.” Also, “mosquitoes pinged out their
paeans over their prostrate, poorly-apparelled
persons.” Two of his friends are described as
“ patriarchs of progress and practice, pioneering
PERPLEXING.
powers of pleading, and physic, in the pristine
prime.”
“ Sir Samuel Wilson,” we read, “is not a
person who cultivates the habit of popularity, and
not only could he have had no chance of being re-
elected for Portsmouth himself but he has made it
impossible for a Conservative to succeed him.”
And as Wilson has been shut out of the Commons,
while the Tories, on whom he has spent so many
thousands, have left office without giving him a
peerage, Sir Salmon may be regarded as having
been absolutely snuffed out. He must live hence-
forth on his dollars and on the reflected radiance
of those who have married some of them.
Some years ago young Tom Icely, as he
was then, having reached adolescence, was sent
abroad to enlarge his mind by travel, after being
specially enjoined by his father to write full des-
criptions of all he saw. Tom did so, in prose and
poetry. Old Mr. Icely was delighted with these
effusions, and when Tom’s muse was inspired by
the sight of the Falls of Niagara the paternal
pride knew no bounds. He button-holed all Tom’s
old acquaintances, and read with pride the
“ pome,” which began thus—mark the utilitarian
idea of the young Australian :
Niagara, Niagara thy falls are veiy steep,
If we had you in Australia what a place for washing
sheep!
The rest was lost in a burst of laughter which papa
Icely never forgave.
One of the earliest of Sydney suburban
newspaper proprietors was Police Inspector L M
thall, who, in 1858, being then only l!) years f
age, started a diminutive sheet at North Shor!
called the Weekly Times. The paper had but a*
ephemeral existence. Lenthall used to humptfi 1
formes each Friday night down to Blue’s Poim
take a ferry to Windmill-street, and carry then’
thence to Clarence-street to be printed. He used t'
write “perishers” on thephinese question, for th°
yellow men were at the time coming in at the rat*
sometimes of 1001) a week, but the great heart of
the people was not to be galvanised then-- it wa-
deprived with prosperity and rum.
Allerdale Grainger, M.P. (S. A.), is a red'
headed six-footer, choke-full from stockings t
collar of virulent invective, but, personally. th°
most kindhearted fellow who ever breathed’ana* 3
themas in the abstract, or denounced an indivi-
dual’s action while willing to befriend the indivi-
dual himself. Like “Tim Linkinwater,” Allerdale
is a perfect lion, a tremendous fellow. Up to date
he is a consistent democrat. He used to edit the
long-defunct Australian Star (Adelaide), when
that weekly was the only South Australian’ paper
that had any real claim to be considered radical
and popular. He was then the stockbutt of the
fat politician with the big bank-balance, but now
he is a dreaded cathartic to the paunchy and
apoplectic.
A man caught sleeping on the grounds of
St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melb., gets six months as a
vagrant. Sit down and think hard.
Melbourne police have just succeeded in
arresting a man who was “ wanted ” for over three
months, during which time he had worked as cook
at the police-barracks.
Somebody picked up a butcher’s receipted
account the other day in a Sydney police-court,
said document setting forth that the man of meat
had purchased a superannuated black horse for
one shilling. Sausages?
Fremantle (W.A.) is so overcrowded with
visitors waiting for work that 20 men often sleep
in one small room, at a tariff of 2s. per night each,
according to H. Lissaoe, a writer to Melbourne
Liberator.
Professor Marshall Hall, the Melbourne
leg-of-mutton apostle of music, declared in one of
his latest frenzies that “ the works of /Escliylus
and of Melos are as new, as fresh, as those of
Shakespeare, of Angelo, of Wagner.” Whereupon
an inquisitive outsider, with no soul worth men-
tioning, challenged the savant to explain who was
this Melos, and what were his works ? Probably
neither of them knows that Melos was a horse
that ran third for the Melbourne Cup.
Talmage, the American preacher, is of
opinion that every Christian ought to own a fast
horse. “There is,” he says, “a delusion abroad
that a thing must be necessarily good and Christian
if it is slow and dull and plodding. There are
very good people who seem to imagine that it is
humbly pious to drive a spavined, galled, glan-
dered, string-halted, blind, staggered jade. At
the pace some people drive, Elijah, with his horses
of fire, would have taken three weeks to get to
heaven.” This is superfluous. The average
Christian we know always owns a fast horse. Or,
to put it correctly, he owns a slow horse, but he
wallops him so desperately that he has to go fast,
which is just the same thing so far as concerns the
Christian.
The “Death Watch.”
A HOUSEHOLD PEST WHICH MAKES UNCANNY
NOISES.
Who has not heard the “ death watch ?” Many
a person who has happened to be awake in the
stillness of the night has listened to the tick, tick
for half a dozen times or more in succession as
regular and as natural as the ticking of a clock.
Many have regarded the sound with superstitious
awe and dread, because everything about it is so
mysterious. The name death watch is derived in
this way, as a person sitting up with the sick is
more apt to hear such sounds, and when they
were heard at such times, it was considered an ill-
omen to the sick one. Some intrepid person dared
to brave this messenger of death, and found,
instead of the supposed spirit, a guileless, timid
little insect. However, the name is still retained,
and no doubt many still wonder what makes that
peculiar sound and why it is made. It Js wonder-
ful that the mere tick, tick, tick of this harmless
insect should cause such fear and dread in some
people’s mind, who are generally so apathetic in
the matter of the serious signs of approaching
catastrophe, that spitting of phlegm in the morn-
ing, dull aching feeling in the head, eyes, and
back, langour, all tell of the increasing debility of
the system. Recourse must be had to a genuine
restorative which will build up the general
strength and restore the normal health as in the
case of Miss M. Wignall, 46 Fenwick-street, North
Carlton, Melbourne, who writes: “.During the
last seven years I have suffered dreadfully from
neuralgia, passing many sleepless nights of agony
in consequence. So much had the pain interfered
with my general health that I had wasted away to
a shadow, many of my friends thinking I
consumptive. I tried all. kinds of remedies with-
out success until I used Clements Tonic, of which
the first bottle gave me instant relief, and I feel
that Clements Tonic is thoroughly reinvigorating
my whole system, giving me a good appetite and
relish for food, and I have therefore much pleasure
in endorsing the merits of Clements Tonic.”


Schnapps may be relied upon in all
>ns as the purest and best of liquors.
PEMELIVS
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
The Worker (Brisbane, Q.) and the
Hummer (Wagga, N.S.W.) are to be amalga-
mated into one concern, separate editions to be
synchronously published in both provinces.
Besides these two union-owned weeklies, a, pro-
posal has been made to establish an official inter-
provincial Labour journal.
When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
ITse Batho’s Baking Powder.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Use'BATHo’s Baking Powder,
WILLIAM FLEMING,
(MERCHANT)^
22 & 24: Clarence Street
(Corner Margaret Street),
S Y D IsT ZeT^ST..
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES, PHJTONS,
TRAY and CONCORD BUGGIES
DOG CARTS, BUCKBOARDS,
WAGGONS, CARTS , HARNESS, ETC.,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES.
22 and 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Why not a carriage-tax in Victoria ?
The great unpaid—Bruce Smith, M.P.
The N.S. Wales National Ass. is own
brother to the Soudan donkey.
Melbourne Argus: “Robert Lowe was
about the last of the intellectual Liberals.”
• Free education has only increased the
attendances at S. A. public schools by 6000.
MTlwraith will probably resign when the
hnd-syndicate railway proposals get through
Parliament.
Dibbs now says he didn’t “ Damn
Chicago ! ” He will next tell us that he wasn’t
made a K.C.M.G.
Chief Justice Higinbotham has, we regret
to hear, been ill. This brings to mind that he ha s
n ever taken a holiday.
Parkes’ left-handed friendship towards
jleid is more disastrous to the eye-glassed politi-
cian than his open enmity.
Even the cholera has its good uses v The
epidemic has caused several emperors to abandon
the usual autumn manoeuvres.
Tommy Walker moves for a National
Bank. That will come only when the country’s
quite stone-broke, as a country.
Maoriland Government proposes intro-
ducing a Bill providing for the total abolition of
imprisonment for debt. Valete I
Despite the fact that they are repealing
the penny-postage in Victoria a country member
of N.S.W. Assembly moves for it.
The wholesale sweeping of rolls that is
now being carried on in Queensland augurs ill for
Labour in Politics at next elections.
Cobbett ; “We talk of the King’s army,
navy, courts, prisons—why not the King’s debt ?
But no, that is National, you know.”
There- are signs of an agitation in S<
Australia for a trial of the Gothenburg system
in connection with the drink traffic.
Morehead (Q.) says he knows two of the
Griffilwraith Ministry “ well qualified to manage
a State gambling department.” Two !
Premier Griffith declares that he has no
sympathy with Queenslanders who say that all
their swans are geese. Griffith is a swan.
George Reid’s “ tale-wagging-the-dog ’’
yarn is cribbed from Carnegie’s “ Triumphant
Democracy.” Where Carnegie got it is not so
evident.
Sir Shindykit MTlwraith solemnly pro-
tests that he knows of no readied-up syndicates
who are waiting for the passage of the Land-grant
Railway Bill.
A motion in favour of taxing the lands
upon which Melbourne is built was brought for-
ward in the Vic. Assembly last week, and treated
as the wildest of jokes.
Cotton, Labour-M.P. : “Reform is to be
obtained by the greatest expansion of freedom.”
Traill, M.P. : “ Of freedom of contract?” Cotton :
“Yes, freedom of contract!”
A feature of the late Victorian Council
elections was the extraordinary number of waiks-
over. _ So many prominent men putting up for
Pentridge prison, you know.
.An attempt to sneak into the new Land
Bill, a clause making it possible to convert a lease-
in-perpetuity into an absolute freehold, has been
defeated in Maoriland Parliament.
A certain rich and drunken Southern
politician “doesn’t believe there are any unem-
ployed ” : he hasn’t seen them, anyhow. That’s
their misfortune—they aren’t spiders.
The workmen, protests Treasurer Berry,
are ready to pay their share of the new taxes; it
n the Toorakracy which objects to help in
maintaining the credit of the province.
Is it true that any N.S.W. Labour-mem-
ber, during the progress of the late maritime
strike, borrowed money from a prominent ship-
owner—a member of N.S.W. Legislative Assem-
bly ?
Gidy one of the four Queensland Labour
members has continued to attend Parliament
since the Griffilwraith’s clause in the new Gagging
orders which ousted them from the seat they used
to occupy.
The Gladstone programme :—(1) Home
Rule for Ireland; (2) Payment of Members; (3)
Dne-man-one-vote; (4) a Bill dealing with the
registration of electors and reducing their qualify-
mg period.
Rumoured in N.S.W. Assembly that Eye-
glass Reid is already giving away portfolios in
Prospective. Parkes is to be offered the billet of
ostmaster-General in the Reid Government—
when it arrives.
An American Labour paper points out
lat the fight between the Pinkertons and
arnegie’s men was simply a struggle between
wo bodies of idle men displaced by the monopoly
machinery.
It is rumoured that the gallant Ballance
overnment intend fighting the next Maoriland
eotionon one issue—the abolition of the nominee
Pper House. What a magnificent shindy there
18 doming in the distance !
}he 0 Sullivan, M.P. of N.S.W. having
jy ic *? ooeu elected by the Assembly to the Public
orks Committee, now writes to the S.M. Herald,
,7° U PThe Bulletin’s doctrine that Ministers
Ml ould be chosen that way.
It is estimated that the world's wheat
PPfr Tbs year will be decidedly in excess of
wIT; I \ reiTlen t s - This is one of the announcements
sm <lo the man witli 10s. a week and eight
1 1 children scratch his head and try to think.
Minister of Works Lyne (N.S. W.), whose
alleged democracy doesn’t stand the testing acid
of office, is visibly veering round in favour of
syndicate railways. The next democratic earth-
quake will leave him stranded with the other
Tories.
Parsons, M.P., says that the Australian
objection to black-labour represents “the triumph
of a democratic and ignorant majority.” Parsons
I’epresents the Northern Territory, where Queens-
-Imd sugar-slavers are now pressing for con-
cessions.
Dr, Maloney, M.L.A., tried to induce
Victorian Parliament to pass a Bill making Js.B.
elective, but the House refused. A J.P.-ship is a
sort of parochial C.M.G.-ship which members
bestow on their friends for conspicuous mental
incapacity and electioneering zeal.
It amuses Australians to notice Sydney
D.T.’s solicitude for our (repeated four times in a
leading article) Indian Empire. It reminds one
of how Melbourne Argus claimed nigger Jack-
son’s victory over Slavin as another notch to the
credit of the sturdy Anglo-Saxon race.
When Melbourne Chamber of Commerce
sent a deputation to Berry, protesting against the
stamp-duties, Graham confounded the heavv
capitalists by remarking that he himself would
have preferred an income-tax to increasing the
stamp duties. This touched their tender spot.
John See, insurance-director, promises to
introduce a Bill in N.S.W. Assembly to suppress
unsound insurance companies. John See, steam-
ship owner, promises a Bill to suppress unsound
steamers and other craft. The Bulletin devoutly
trusts that both these J ohn Sees will hurry up.
The pretended capture of a Russian spy
photographing the Townsville (Q.) fortifications
(sic) was no doubt worked up to distract attention
from the big military celebration in Brisbane at
the time. All that guzzling and jingo tournament-
ing,by the way, costs the province £92,000 a year.
The Victorian “Patriotic” League (that
is to say, the local National Ass.) has been point-
ing out to Graham Berry that the Treasury deficit
could be wiped out at once by making every man
pay for the education of his children. Free educa-
tion and compulsory that is the enemy of the
Ass.
As a result of the
Griffilwraithian E 1 ec-
tions Act, 1900 objections
to votes have been lodged
in North Brisbane alone,
for which Griffith and
MTlwraith are members.
In the suburban elec-
torates the objections
already exceed 0000, with
more to come.
The full report of
the U.S. Tariff Commis-
sion is even more interest-
ing than the cabled sum-
mary. It sets forth that
since the introduction of
the M’Kinley tariff the
retail prices of 215 articles
of daily consumption have
fallen heavily ; that the
cost of living has gone
down 3.4 per cent., and
that there has been a fall
in wholesale prices all
round. At the same time
the cost of living in Eng-
land has risen 1.9 per
cent.; wages in the U.S.
are now 77 per cent,
higher than in Great
Britain; and American
agricultural produce sold
in Europe has realised
per cent, more than
it did two years ago.
Also, 34 tin-plate works
have been started in the
States since the intro-
duction of the new tariff,
and about 36 which
depended chiefly on the
American trade have
shut up in England.
Which is a pretty good
record for Protection,
taking it all round.
How is Parkes’ new attitude of amiable
approval of Crick, M.P., to be accounted for?
Parkes, than whom there is no more efficient
retorting slangwhanger in N.S.W. Parliament,
responds to every snap on the part of Crick with
a caress. What’s the inside explanation of the
mystery ?
South Queensland contributes in Customs
duties £2 11s. 4d. per head; North -Queensland,
£ll 9s, lid. per head. “In grog alone,” says
Treasurer MTlwraith, “the South only pays
10s. lid. per head, while the North pays £1 ss. 9d.
per head. If the North boozed less, it would save
more.”
Sir Robert Stout (M.L.) writes to the
papers to point out that “ the Governor of a self-
governing colony is a Constitutional King.” Well,
Maoriland is pretty tired of governors ; it is tired
of being called a “ colony,” and it is tired of kings;
also, it is exceedingly tired of the adjective “con-
stitutional.”
* ‘ Employers will get cheap labour if they
can; it is the business of the State to prevent
them getting it so cheaply that they imperil the
future of the race by the process; and it is the
business of particular crafts of workmen to sell
their labour at as good a price as they can.”—
Thorold Royers.
Rose, M.L.A., attempts to get to wind-
ward of “Tommy” Walker and the National
Bank question by moving that there be no limit
to deposits at the N.S.W. Government Post office
Savings Bank, and that it be empowered to issue
notes equal in amount to its deposits. The idea
is an excellent one.
Sydney Daily Telegraph is beginning to
boom Parkes once more, despite all the curses it
heaped, on him a few months ago for his
“ treachery.” Presently it will prop up the Hairy
One for all it is worth and recant in full. “ Re-
cant ” practically means to cant over again, and the
D.T. is good at-that. ~
Hundreds of white men are stranded
“ stone-broke ” in the big towns of West Austra-
lia, simply because they haven’t got the means to
get themselves out of a province that is being
overrun with Indian coolies and Chinese, engaged
for two years, at wages that would not keep a
white man in even rough tucker.
There will be no change of Ministry yet
awhile in N.S. Wales. The Labour-party will
take electoral reform from any hands ; the present
Ministry must give it to them—can give it to them
more speedily than any body that might be
substituted for them. The Upper House dare not
refuse to pass the measure this time.
S.A. Register is apparently preparing to
trim on the eight hours’ question, which it sup-
ported for years when Day wx-ote its editorials.
Place this alongside the articles on the Broken
Hill boycott and you will know whether to believe
recent rumours about an accession of National
“ Ass.” influence at the Register office. ~
W. E. Abbott: “ If I were one who wished
evil to the workmen of Australia (which I do not),
I would be delighted to see the (Broken Hill)
strike go on under Mr. Sleath’s able leadership
until all the unions of Australasia were depleted—
bled to death—and I daresay there are some
capitalists who take that view of the matter.”
“Kuyanna” M‘Gregor, of New Guinea,
begins all his ordinances with, “It is wicked and
wrong .” This is a sample: “It is wicked
and wrong to cut down a cocoanut tree. Fine,
<£lo or 14 days.” He obviously believes his mis-
sion to be divinely inspired, and coolly describes
in his despatches the executions his party commits.
Unfortunate utterance by Graham Berry :
Asa matter of fact not the faintest objection comes
frorii the working men of Victoria. It is left to the
'intelligent, the prominent and the wealthy residents of
Melbourne to raise their voices against the new taxes for
paying the debts of the State.
Our italics. We thought Jerry too old a bird for
this.
A sugar-planter sets bis jackeroo to write
to a Southern paper stating that the plantation
Kanakas are as happy as the day is long, and
capital fellows to get on with if you only treat
them as human beings. Every one knows already
that they are capital fellows—sugar-industry-
capital fellows, in fact. Also, if they were only
treated as human beings they wouldn’t be where
they are. No more would the jackeroo.
“ Jawbone ” Neild proposes introducing in
the N.S.W. Assembly a “ Bill to legitimatise the
issue born before marriage of parents subsequently
married.” Why not introduce a Bill to legiti-
matise everybody and to make a man’s goods
equally divisible among all his children at his
death ? The doctrine of “ illegitimacy ”is a relic
of barbarism.
Parkes runs to rehabilitate himself, if
possible, on a platform of Australian Federation,
Australian Nationalism (he, the man who, more
than any other, has grapnelled N.S. Wales on to
England), Australia for white men (he, the
pioneer Sydney employer of Eurasian cheap
labour !), and “one Legislature, one House.” As
a humbug, Parkes is unique.
The Griffilwraith Government has cancelled
Captain C. B. Fitzgerald’s military commission
because that officer dared to stand as a democratic
candidate for Parliament. Such despicable
revenges are methods eminently designed to pro-
voke the establishment of a trained unionist army
that may some day write revolution in red ink.
Meanwhile, let ballot defeat bullet.
The Young Victorian Patriotic League,
explains the Argus in its summary for Europe,
“ was formed prior to the elections to 'promote the
restoration qf prosperity?’ Europe will be further
interested to learn that this great project was
started by a stockbroker, and that the League is
not itself likely to .contribute anything better than
scrip and skite to the national prosperity.
Judge Boucaut (S.-A.), now in England, is
apparently falling over himself in the effort to
secure a bauble. This erstwhile democratic
Premier thus writes in an English paper : '• „
My pride is in an Imperial connection, and if the
English desert their Imperialism and become dreamers,
doctrinaires, and faddists, then I should say that the
sooner we colonists also separate the better. For my part,
I should feel ashamed of my country, and would no longer
have any objection to a separation.
Jawbone Neild will introduce to the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly, a Bill for the
suppression of vice; 0. O. Dangar lias one for
the suppression of barmaids, and Kidd one for
the suppression of goats—we mean drunkenness.
This is piecemeal legislation. Somebody should
grapple boldly with the situation, and introduce a
Bill for the suppression of sin.
“ England alone gives a majority of 71
against Gladstone,” crows the Argus. But Scot-
land supplies a larger proportionate majority in
favour of Home Rule, and the Argus never misses
a chance of remarking on the superior wisdom of
the “hard-headed Scot.” In point of fact, the
entire anti-Horae Rule press of Australia is
always accusing itself of imbecility in opposing
the principles of the more enlightened portion of
the United Kingdom. Make a note of this.
A Queensland magistrate, who recently
sentenced two unionists to terms of imprisonment,
refused to take bail, pooh-poohed appeal, and
declined to certify to the correctness of the copies
of the depositions which their solicitor had
obtained. The Australian Labour Federation
took counsel’s opinion and started certain legal
proceedings to force an appeal. Then the magis-
trate certified to the depositions in a sudden
fright. But the matter has by no means ended.
Bananaland Parliament lias passed a Bill
to enable the Supreme Court Judges of any other
Australian province to adjudicate oh the Queens-
land Bench. The other provinces should now pass
reciprocal Acts, thus adding to the volume of
desirable federal legislation. By-and-bye, the
foreign Privy Council may be dropped down the
worked-out shaft of colonial dependency, and the
Appeal Court of the Republic be made the final
umpire of Australian litigation.
The official statements (cabled) of Presi-
dent Hodge, of the Glasgow Trades Union Con-
gress, which statements are ail cautiously con-
servative, and would maintain the expected,
respectful, touch-your-cap-to-the-squire and salute-
the-baiiie attitude of labour, are enthusiastically
approbated by the S.M. Herald as exhaling “a
breezy vigour.” The vigour of the resigned slave,
of the recreant blackleg, of the toady special con-
stable, and of the National Ass. groom.
Mr. T. Buckland represented the N.S.W.
National Ass. with much accuracy, the other day,
when, on a deputation to the Government, anent
a Local Government Bill, he hoped that the voting
power would be left in the hands of the property-
owners, and not shared by those who “ received
benefit in the shape of wages.” The same old
bray, that the man who receives benefit in the
shape of work done is a benefactor when he hands
to the workman half the value of the work and
pockets the other half himself.
The Griffilwraith Cabinet decided that it
could not, “from motives of humanity,” drive
back into the dry and howling desert those Chows
who came over the Queensland border without
paying the poll-tax. Therefore, they are coming
in by droves “from motives of humanity,” and
already the squatters are employing them at nine-
pence a day and their rice, and sacking the white
men to make room for them. When the Griffil-
wraith Cabinet shows the slightest sign of
humanity then it is time for the country to throw
a brick at it without further consideration.
Humanity is an unnatural emotion with the
Kanaka Government, and is always an evidence
that there is trouble ahead.
Griffith’s Kanaka regulations have roused
into rebellion a number of Polynesians who, under
the old law, were known as “time-expired ” boys)
and who had recognised labour rights in common
with white men, but who are now classed with
the “slaves.” (For The Bulletin repeats that
any section of workers who are legislatively for-
bidden to do any but one class of work are
“slaves” pure and simple, and “slavery” is
illegal within British dominions). Twenty Kana-
kas, 10 of whom have been 15 years, and the rest
nine years, in Queensland, have applied to the
Bowen police-magistrate for tickets exempting
them from being classed as Polynesians under
the slavery regulations. The matter has been
referred to Chief Slaver Griffith.
The D.N. Argus (Rockhampton, Q.),
which sooled on the Tory dogs against the unionist
shearers last year, throws back its ears over the
“latest act of tyranny” perpetrated against
Central Queensland by Griffilwraith and Co. “in
proposing to remove the lightship in Keppel Bay ” (!),
and trusts that it will—
Still further unite all classes in the community to the
resistance of tyranny by every constitutional means at
first, nut, if these fail, then we must take by force what
we cannot get in any other way. . . . We must pro-
test to the Government against this proposed outrageous
piece of oppression, but if they will not hear us by “fair”
means, then let us make them hear us by “foul,” and
God help the right!
Now, then, Judge Harding ! Forward with the
Gatlings, good Towzer !
The shades of night were falling fast,
When thro’ a Yankee city passed
A knight, who maddened by a bore,
The cable says, he up and swore.
(Of course you’ve read it.)
Now in New Zealand far away
When interviewed the other day,
That self-same cable makes him say
“ I never said it! ”
A Funny Game.
A few friends met the other night in a Newtown
store to spend a jovial evening, but as they were
all teetotallers and none of them drank anything
stronger than Clements Tonic, drunkenness was
out of the question. Mac. proposed a game
at euchre, and Jones said they had better play for
something just to give the game an interest and
make it lively, but times were hard, so they did
not care to play for money. Smith, however,
spied a box of Fletcher's bilious and liver pills,
and proposed that each time a man was beaten he
should take a pill, and this made the game lively
and the fun was fast and furious. Simpson
swallowed five, Jones got away with four and
Smith and Hopkins two eacli and Mac. got off
scot free. The game terminated by a general
exodus at 3 a.m., for Dr. Fletcher’s pills never
labour in vain. They are the best and mildest
pills made and are sold by all chemists and
druggists everywhere; being a positive, safe,
and reliable cure for constipation, liver complaint,
headache, &c. They always give satisfaction.
The proprietors give away £5O (in seven prizes) at
Xmas, for the seven first nearest guesses sent in,
as to how many of these pills a large Clements
Tonic bottle (now full) holds. A guess form is
around every box, and all such forms are eligible
for this competition that come from around a box.
One box of Fletcher’s Pills proves their virtues
and they can be obtained everywhere at Is., or
post free 13 penny stamps, from E. M. Clements,
Newtown, N.S.W.


•A 1 1® .
..
, _
,>
* ftfcV 6 vp \;.,
gtcrOf. i’ &"V
(to
*****
l,
The Czar of Russia has been visiting the
hospitals. A safe outing, cholera
patients being too weak to throw bombs.
cotv
\Vcv4 . v, -A<\
<Vt>°
‘"W'"
“ The General denies that he is wealthy or livipg
\in luxury. He asserts that he lives on Is. per day.”
Ghost op one op the Disciples; “Well, that ia
i Js. more than we got, and we found ourselves.”
“General Booth admits
that he is‘up to his neck ’
|in financial difficulty in carry-.
ing on the work of the Salva-
tion Army. He intends to commence
pawnbroking on the Parisian system.
He would certainly “ look the part.”
The General : “Veil, my goot >
roman, if I lent you vun penny moreA
on that iron, I’d fee a-robbin Divine
Provideash.” I
If all inebriates were “ compulsorily de
! tained ” it would be rather difficult always to
secure a quorum in the “ ’ouse.”
UNEMPLOYED.
“No chance. Bill; even the
blooming moon is full!”
Parses (contemplating Musin's fhow-billjf
Ha ! Another rival ! ”
London. Friday Night—-Ftofessor Pickering. I
of Harvard University, •'■'ho has been making
observations of the planet Mars, asserti that he has
discovered two mountains and eleven lakes in the
planet,— Cahlo.
When it gets so bacLas that an astronomer
really ought to go to bed.
w. 'Some man may get into the
House who keeps- a pawnshop and may
want to vindicate the character of his
institution in the Parliament- of his
country.”— Parkes.
Ex-Director op Financial Insti-
tution : “ Happy thought! When I
get out of gaol I’ll go up for Parlia-
ment.”
Extractfrorp
tra/el byJft-Dibhi
-If fe
'%OPh^A
fdktytd j
(]tj (UTlfltjrf iy
-Jyoipy - //c ifi, i
A LOOK ROUND.


<ZTA*J Y . -y/U # //e^A e/ <^V
a/»'’“••’ a^yak
c 9
~7~7 rjne Q O (S'A// <3 S. (Sst c/&c*'Soesr>z t / > /
-yQ/*er *</'”<*
6y d ?cAss>& -/Ac /txae-A, of Tom '&<ss}/~ xAcAyZA/
-A- s — —7i y/ //////yAAAi
<s3r 'T'/S Z 2 />/z£* h~t~C>
/ O I0r”*/0 AAo/A
/, ~ /*
o/i2SS 'o ® <_*- — ' i «,
sfats*-,./ v • /
(Ju I'oi-s AAyys/ ofe. rJ ——^"■•' r "
' r /Vow /trZ" </
itvGias 7 yAr'z> &tss'c/&nce Care., f,s//y "
cO /
//i<s <S-e/i Y/esn a/~> tvAo
6eAev<t%> /A -fAe «ooo<y
o/c/ s Ay/<?
(r ,„. ' y^^N.
l/KOS'/l'l S 7*o '
£
'A~)y ar’<yysner>/ /g y/>a/ C/~^/r>AA,o n 1
W /OSsA/sC S'<s/7 7s SS>as>/“ —
~// ) *s° * s /S//Z iasis/ Q&sr) y~/} <a If
1/7 _ , . / © ‘lf
/ // /// ,'C7esss. y- o a '' I
/7
-- AMD I
A RT \
We-C/07^^'
< *V/'/4 S/S G
yfram cr 4 c/i/e
( c~p&)
Y A/AsS fi/*g C/’fi/TjoTi’Ort
To/Ai a /r>A c/& ae/?/ -
c/'e.ac/ v
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
TS the coining colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldtields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS ... ... from £l5
Note.— These allotments are in selected positions.
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good.
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,
3c9 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
W, J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office:
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. KST" For external use try Colkmane and
Soys Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
l_ For more than forty years, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has boon successfully prescribed in cases
of consumption. This medicine always affords
great relief in pulmonary diseases. Ask your
druggist for it.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Eowder.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney -
J. Lichtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., lias taken over the above out
established first-class hotel. Special rates for commereia
travellers and families.
D’Arcy Brothers, Brokers, Scott Chambers,
90 Pitt-street, Sydney.
PE HELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
Sociely
The other day some Sydney bank-boomers
were locked up pending bail. By-and-hye they
felt hungry, and as their friends had forgotten to
send them in dinner they began to feel interested
in the plates of hominy which were shoved into
their cell. “ Don’t like the look of it much,” said
one to the other, “ hut I’ll see what it’s like. 11l
scrape all the sugar on to one side and try it that
way ” —which he did. He took a big mouthful.
Ugh! The “ sugar ” turned out to he salt. P.S.
This occurrence strikes us as being allegorical. A
lot of people have lately gone for the “ sugar ” and
found it to be salt after all.
• « #
“When women first found out that they
wanted to become doctors,” writes a well-informed
correspondent of The Bulletin, “ the great argu-
ment in their favour was the advantage other
women would gain from being attended by practi-
tioners of their own sex in those delicate ailments
which it is assumed that they cannot describe to
men without sacrificing their modesty. Now,
however, it turns out that it is the modesty of the
men that is in danger. The female students at
Melbourne Hospital cannot be induced to pay any
attention to the cases of the countless women who
come as outdoor patients, and rarely show them-
selves in the ward where these applicants are re-
ceived. Bit when the diseases of the men are
being investigated the whole dozen now studying
in the hospital flock into the room with benevo-
lent activity. The larrikin who cannot find the
guinea for L. L. Smith can be sure of an attentive
and interested audience when he explains how ‘ he
fell over a doorstep ’ to the surgeon of the day and
his fair assistants. The female patients, on their
part, will have nothing to do with the ‘ doctresses.’
The truth is that nature is too strong for the
theorists.”
* * «
The S.A. Land Boards in all save very
exceptional cases decline to grant selections to
bachelors. Gastine, M.P., objects to this, and, in
arguing on the subject last week, said : “Youths
must make a home for themselves before they get
married, and must be married before they have
large families.”
m * m
A Tasmanian woman drank fifteen quarts
of beer prior to a certain interesting event, and
one quart immediately afterwards. She died.
* * #
Depression has got its grip on a lot of
Marvellous Melbourne clubs, and members find
that belonging to them is as had as being a land-
bank shareholder. Bohemians have to face a call
of about £3O a member; Nomads one of about £6;
the squatters at the Australian about £lOO each ;
while the Yorick is racked with internal sickness,
the Athenaeum is gasping, and the marble halls of
the Melbourne are desolate, save for the cry of the
new-chum, “ Witer ! kill me a kib ! ” five minutes
after arrival. They have all boomed, and now
they are all busting.
The Brisbane press speaks of the Queens*,
land Investment “ cases ” now under appeal as
though there were no others remaining. The cash
just tried is only a preliminary canter. Another
action against the same four defendants is set
down for a claim of £6OOO in connection with a
loan to the Sandgate Pier Co; also for £6OOO re
a loan to L. F. Sachs ; also for £20,000 re a loan
to Rochefort Bros., and for loans amounting to
£lOO,OOO to Thos. Hamer. Lastly, there are two
actions set down against two directors who are
also defendants in all the preceding cases. All
the amounts claimed carry interest, which extends
in some cases over a period of many years. Why,
the case just tried is a mere flea-bite !
*’ * «
The final judgment in the last of the
mortgage-company cases aforesaid will probably be
delivered at the fin de sieclc after next.
# * #
An insolvent and the man who “put him
through ” were responsible for two of the toniest
and best-advertised theatre-parties during the
Gaiety Co.’s Brisbane season. What was more,
they came off together, and were placed so that a
couple of big blankets could have covered the lot.
» « m
A prominent Melbourne attorney has
Bulwerish capillary variations. His hair has been
white, black and golden, and now he goes in for
white hair with black moustache.
* * #
The Sunday morning services at Melbourne
Anglican Cathedral are now under vice-regal
patronage, and the “plate” is said to be doing
better business in consequence. The silver “ bob”
of respectability begins to supersede the bent half-
penny and the metal trousers-button of the taber-
nacle’s earlier days. Government House can
always administer a fillip to Christianity in this
way.
# * *
“A Disciple of Howard” writes that he
believes there is a man in Pentridge doing 10
years for sacrilege. He has done a fair three years
for stealing tin-pots, or something, but has the
rest of the “ stretch ” because they were taken out
of the Judge’s church.
# # #
At Parramatta (N.S.W.), months ago, two
men were charged with conspiracy and admitted
to bail. One ran away ; the other pleaded guilty
and endured six mouths’ gaol. On his liberation,
he found his mate and “ blew the gaff ” on him.
No. 1 was then re-arrested, tried, and—acquitted.
Now, with whom did No. 2 conspire?
* # #
Apropos Sydney’s recent big and gorgeous
£lOOO Chinese funeral. The other day in Maori-
land a Chinaman died and went to be with
his own particular brown-paper deity in a land
where there are many, mansions, most of them
being built out of old tea-oliests. He left about
£l5O worth of assets, and instructed a yellow
executor to realise the estate, and use it in for-
warding the deceased to his old Asiatic home,
and supplying him with a decent funeral. There-
upon the executor set to work to consider how
much he could save out of the property, and as the
freight on corpses was high he decided to send the
departed home on a cheaper basis. And this was
why a Maoriland shipping company was horrified
one morning at the conduct of a Chinaman who
came in and said : “Me wantee know how much
you fleeze belly poor Chineeman an’ send him
back home longa meat to Hong Kong in fleezing
THE LOST PUB.
MAN FROM JAMBEROO (to constable): "Where is the pub. I stay at?"
CONSTARLE : “What’s the name of it?”
MAN FROM JAMBEROO : “Dunno. ’Fore I left home my wife wrote down the directions on a
bit o’ paper and I gave it to the man as drove me in a eab from the railway. I
come out this mornin’ after breakfast and I’ve lost the run of the darn place.
S’pose I’ll ’ave to write to the old woman and ask her where I’m stoppin’.”
ship, sposee you fleeze ’im allee same mutton,
chargee allee same, save twelve pong ten for lead
koffing, ’im belly poo’, they belly poo’, all of us
belly poo’.” But the company decided that
Chinaman wasn’t legitimate meat, and when that
ship reached Hong Kong there was no frozen
heathen hanging up among the mutton, and an
unburied Mongol still cries aloud for sepul-
ture.
* # *
Notice stuck up in the grounds of a Collins-
street (Melb.) church : “No admittance except on
business.” Some evening a cynic will tack that
sign over the door.
* * #
It took three juries ere a verdict could be
obtained against three Melbourne men for robbing
the Albert Park railway-station. The Crown
would save a lot of wear and tear if it tried these
cases with a jury of policemen.
* # *
Some swamp-poet of Marrickville has
suggested that the name of the railway-station
there should he changed to Tramvale, and that
aerial and gossamer-like mind which rules the
N.S. Wales Public Works Department has cheer-
fully acquiesced. There are lots of better names,
just as elegant and aesthetic, which might have
been chosen instead of Tramvale. Stoke-hole, for
example, or Brake-downs, or Shunt-off, or Pas-
senger-dump. Or the name of the Minister might
have been gracefully memorised in combination
with the utilitarian aspect sought to be preserved
in “ Tram ’’-vale. Why not Tender Lyne ? That
should meet with the approval of every man with
a steak in the country.
The blacklegs at the Cheshire salt works
are arming themselves with bludgeons to resist
the unionists. Presently the pawnbrokers’ shops
in Chester will be embellished with silver-mounted
From a speech by a prominent citizen at
a recent “farewell” at Richmond (N.S.W.): —
“I am pleased to see such a gathering of, I might
say, all sorts and conditions of men, and, I will
add, all sorts and conditions of women.”—(Sensa-
tion.)
* # #
Worm-tablets —Gravestones.
• # #
The objections to cremation are all rot.
* * *
A New South Wales jury has decided (in
the ease Cohen v. Hood —cancer-quack Hood) that
a working tailor’s wife is worth to him and his
family only £5O.
# # *
A correspondent tells us this story : A
veteran Sydney constable was sent down to do
night-duty on Spectacle Island. The dismal
loneliness of the place conduced to melancholia,
during a fit of which the officer cut his throat.
When the man was charged with attempted
suicide, the presiding magistrate mercifully
ordered him to be imprisoned until the rising of
the court, which nominal sentence was probably in
view of the poor policeman’s official future. How-
ever, the unfortunate constable, after 30 years of
approved service in the force, has been dismissed
and made to forfeit the pension to which he had
become, or almost become, entitled by that long
period of well-ordered behaviour. Is that one
lapse, obviously the result of mental derangement,
to he used as a pretext for cancelling more than
half a lifetime of disciplined conformity to the
requirements of the service? It would be as well
if some member of Parliament moved for the
papers in this case.
* • •
Mayor Bullock, of Adelaide, omitted from
the list of invitations to his recent ball the names
of every Labour M.P., except Mr. Charleston.
One of the gentlemen thus ignored represents the
Assembly district in which the Town Hall is
situated, while another sits for the central pro-
vince in the Legislative Council. Bullock also
left out the names of the President of the Trades
and Labour Council and the Chairman of the
Eight Hours Celebration Union —who have always
been invited in the past —and yet had the cool
effrontery to join the Vice-Regal party which
attended the luncheon given by the Executive at
the Eight-Hours demonstration the day after the
ball.
* * *
Editor Bulletin. —Sir, From Sydney
Echo
The Wolverhampton Guardians evidently take good
care that the nerves of the paupers are not weakened by
the consumption of strong tea. At the meeting of the
board the other day it was mentioned that the price paid
for tea for the inmates of the workhouse was Is. 2d. per
lb., and that 10 pints were made out of 1 oz.! The state-
ment was received with laughter.
What is there to laugh at ? On the crack Austra-
lian stations, owned by honourables from Scot-
land and syndicates from Sydney, the old “ 10,10,
two-and-a-quarter ” are still adhered to. Now, a
boundary-rider makes a quart of tea three times a
day, 42 pints a week, and that is often hulled ft r a
drink between meals. As to the price, the best
ration tea I ever tasted was at Merangle— price,
lid. per lb. in Sydney. At present I am using the
worst tea manufactured (I use this word advisedly),
but I do not know the price, because the boss
refuses to let the_ shearers know, until near the
cut-out, when it is too late to bark. Add to it
that the water is from a 12 by 12 tank in a three-
acre paddock, in which they had 50 used-up, foot-
rotty ranis for three weeks before shearing, and I
fail to see why my statement should not also be
“received with laughter.”—Yours, Scotty W.
Lord Kintore’s term is up next year, and
he intends to return to England. His Englisi
estates, which were encumbered, have been relieved
by his Australian “banishment” and rigorou
economy. Lady Kintore, it is well known j S
delighted at the prospect of returning to decent
society, rny dear.
* * *
Dear Bulletin. —Be a correspondent’s
note in a recent issue, the “ kangaroos ” on West
garth’s fountain at Melbourne Exhibition gate ar'
not without tails, but their continuations are
tucked comfortably underneath, and serve as
cushions! —of course a physical impossibilitv
The Phcenix. ' y ’"
* # #
English advt.
A DVERTISER (a gentleman of fine appearance am}
stature), is the hearer of a very celebrated and
ancient Greek name (it can actually be traced up t 0
the year 417 BEFORE Christ), and wishes to marry a
rich iadv, age, widow, &c., no object. Address in
full confidence, LEONTIUS!, poste rest. Deutsch
Brodersclorf, Austria). Letters itere 2id.
* * *
Ash, M.P., has carried a Bill through
Committee in the S.A. Assembly providing that
parents may demand calf-lymph for vaccinating
their children, and imposing a term of imprison-
ment on doctors who wilfully mislead their
patients on the subject of calf or humanised lymph
* * *
Mr. Panton, P.M., laid his finger on a
plague-spot, in Melbourne the other day, when lie
spoke of the nefarious importation of German
women of ill fame, a fact first ventilated in these
columns.
* * *
The name of Miss Jessie Ackerman, evan-
gelist of the Women’s Christian Temperance
Union, headed the published list of guests invited
to the ball given by Sir William Robinson at
Perth last month.
* * m
Two Jaypees, a solicitor, and a trooper
are holding a carouse in a N.S.W. country pub-
parlour. A drunken bushman rides past the
window. Trooper goes out and runs him in. The
Jaypees try him for drunkenness and promptly
fine him <£lo. “ Damn it {hie), I’ve only got ss. on
me; I’ll have ter take it out.” Solicitor rises and
addresses the “Court” as “ amicus cur ice” Pine
promptly reduced to ss. Exit grateful bushman.
“ Fill ’em up agen !”
« # #
Coincidently with cholera in England, the
price of disinfectants (it is cabled) has increased
about 200 per cent. What sort of a “corner”
will now be rigged by the wholesale importing
druggists of this hemisphere? Even the oppres-
sive pub-owning and brewing monopolies do not
transcend in overmastering magnitude the whole-
sale-drug octopi.
# • «
Advt. from a recent Melbourne Age :
"piANIST, first-class, good vamping, make himself
- 1 - generally useful about house and kitchen, able
milk 10 cow's ; 15s. week ; references. O. If., Foots-
Cray P.O,
A musical milkman is evidently no sort of an
acquisition.
* * *
You have only to notice the wife of a
chicken-hearted Northern lawyer-politician to
understand that whatever pluck he has is not his
own—but borrowed.
* * *
The fussiest judges in Australia, in the
matter of man-millinery, are the Supreme Court
Judges of Queensland. Their “scarlet-robes”
days are quite social functions, and regularly
receive the advertising approval of the flunkeys of
the Brisbane daily press.
# # #
Judge Wilkinson to a Parramatta jury:
“ The prosecutor, gentlemen, drank three glasses
of beer during the afternoon, I don’t know what
effect this would have upon him ; but you, gentle-
men, will no doubt be able to arrive at a proper
conclusion on the subject.”
# * #
Chief Justice Way (S.A.), chatting of his
U.S. travels :
The State of Massachusetts has the ■ highest reputation
in the States for the administration of justice. I heard a
case tried in which the leading counsel on one side was a
lady, while her junior was her husband. The junior cer
tainly seemed the most humble man in court.
Way himself is a bachelor and can safely jeer at
henpeckdom.
# # *
The Manawatu Standard (M.L.) tells of
a “ widow lady of education and refinement” who,
with her two unmarried daughters, took up a
selection in preference to falling back on the
genteel drudgery of a governess’s existence. They
built their own house, cleared, stumped and fenced
the land almost entirely with their own hands,
and are now raising wheat and potatoes with con-
siderable success. They are a plucky trio, and
deserve good fortune, but all the same society
looks coldly on the lady who gets up early 7 on a
wet morning to urge the plough through the
slush, with her skirts turned up to her knees, and
it will probably continue doing so to the end of
the chapter.
* * #
Before the North Cross Reef, at Stawell,
turned out so richly, an individual who is now
a full-blown “Honourable,” but was then
known only as “Bill the Smelter,” was not
one of the richest men in Victoria, as he sub-
sequently became. He owned 2125 shares out of
the 10,000 forming the co., and the calls were a
heavy tax on him. But he had the credit apart
from this of being one of the most “ thrifty ” of
men, and used to live by himself away down at
Doctor’s Creek, and cook his own food. No o®'
had ever shared his dinners or knew what be lived
on. One night he was at a meeting of directors
in a Patrick-street pub. and bung a bag rap in the
passage. Very soon it was noticed* and th®
loungers in the bar resolved that for once they
would find out what Bill lived on. Th«y opened
the bag quickly, and out tumbled or rolled »
couple of podgy little bull pups, just old enough to
be weaned. To thisday there are several malevolent
rascals who significantly say that the pups were
fat and toothsome-looking, and that they were
never seen at maturity in their then owners
company.
THE GAIETY CO.
Not for thy love, oh ! bewchus maid,
The modern suitor humbly begs;
He asks not grace, nor charm of face—
His soul bows down before thy legs.
When from the front-row stalls, the sigh,
The passioned exclamation, slips,
The baldheads’ glare, the Johnnies’ stare
Are turned on Addie Conyers’ hips.
The fame of her whose modelled shanks,
Formed of the dandy’s gems a part,
Grows dim ’gainst thine ; thy limbs divine
Are treasured in each chappie’s heart.


eyesight pee served.
“ SPECTACLES t their Lse, when Required,
and liow to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should he
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method afi
resting the sight is enclosed with it, hy means of wfeiclv
tnose residing at a distance can gauge their vision,, aindl
tirtam glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney-
ure thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shaO Be'
most happy t° test the sight and give advice (call who*
i9n it, and forward, free of charge to any address,
I am phlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost Ik Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
4fi2 , 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SVOWEV..
Oar ireaders can have teeth painlessly
■extracted under nitrous-oxide gas. Cocaine (hypo-
dermic injection). Fee, from 2s. fid. Full sets
gold medail artificial teeth, <£s. Mr. J. I. Marshall,
Dental Surgeon, Sydney Arcade (George and
King-streets).
It is most convenient to have a first-class
TEjom near tram stopping places, where ladies
(can rest themselves, and if they choose, have a
• aaod oup of tea, or other refreshments. We
understand the Country Milk Co.’s “Cascade,”
and 82 Elizabeth-street, near King-street, is
jusb the place ; it is certainly the largest and best-
iconducted room in Sydney, and is getting quite
(the(fashionable resort for afternoon tea. W e also
umterstand that ladies who so desire can have
iparesis sent there, so that they can call for them
jjuat 'before taking the tram for home.*
'Use
Batho’S Baking Powder.
Use Bath O’s Bakin" Powder.
A t Woolloomooloo yon can buy GNIT N
Darlings.
When are 'Spectacles Kcqnlrcd ?
When the eyes water or become so much fatigued by
short exercise ns to he obliged to he frequently closed or
relieved by viewing different objects.
When objects cannot he seen without removing them
to an increased distance.
When the letters of a book appear to blend with one
anol her.
When more light is necessary than was formerly, as
When the candle is placed between the eye and the
book ;
When much difficulty is found in threading a needle ;
When the eyes appear as if they had a mist before
them;
When black specks seem floating in the sight.
When any of the above indications arise, all affectation
should be laid aside, responsible and skilful opticians con-
sulted, and a pair of preservers purchased.
peost & shi^zhea-im:
(Practical Spectacle Makers),
402, 174 Asn 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Ark the Pnori;K.
Captain W. N. Allison, of s.s. Tsinan,
which takes to Hongkong the remains of the late
Way Key, Chinese merchant, of Sydney, was
presented with .£3O by Quong Tart, on behalf of
the corpse’s relatives. A rich dead Chinaman
apparently sheds gold all the way en route to
Confucius.
• # *
Jackson Palmer, M.H.R. (MaorilancD, is
promoting a Deceased Husband’s Brother Bill as
the natural complement of the Deceased Wife’s
Sister Act. Therefore the Church is girding up
its hymn-book for another crusade against “god-
less legislation.”
* » •
A portent from Maoriland. At Maunga-
kawa, recently, a Maori woman gave birth to
triplets. The mother and two of the children
died immediately afterwards; but the third child,
an unfinished male infant who was born without
hands, is alive and doing well. The solemn
patriarchs of the tribe have sat in judgment upon
this prodigy, and their decision is that the infant
is without hands so that he cannot sign away his
inheritance to the Pakeha, and his existence is a
warning that the Maori is to hang on to the land
for ever.
# * *
Chief Justice Way (S.A.), the individual
who had the dog given him by Lady Kintore, held
forth the other evening before the Adelaide
P.M.C.A. on his recent travels in “Yurrup,”
Kintore being in the chair. It was a remember-
some event. Way’s “ travels ” consisted chiefly of
a catalogue of the emperors and other potentates
He had seen afar off, and every time he came to a
fresh emperor his voice fell into an awe-stricken
whisper, and when he had mentioned that emperor
he made an impressive pause so that the monarch
might have time to soak into the minds of his.
audience. Bub the very saddest part of the narra-
tion was when he stated, with crape om
his voice, that he saw the Princess of Wales,
dancing with the Duke of Clarence, while
a number of other dukes looked on and whole,
rafts of earls and barons were about; and on that
memorable occasion (here Way’s voice sank to a
husky murmur like a hog breathing afar off)
nothing happened to convey the impression that
Clarence was shortly going to die. Every time
the speaker alluded to anybody with a title the.
audience gave a wild and unanimous cheer, and
when he mentioned the disease that Clarence died
°f the applause was tremendous. It doesn’t
sound well to hear an audience cheering for a fatal
complaint, but doubtless the misguided crowd,
meant well.
* # *
Governor Glasgow struck a prize groveller
at a recent ball in Wellington (M.L.). He was am*
auctioneer, and being introduced to Glasgow he
confided to that dignitary, in a husky whisper,
that he was “ only a rough colonial,” but he hoped
his Excellency would overlook the fact. His Ex-
cellency promised to overlook it. The auctioneer
further stated that he “ kep’ a diary,” and his
Excellency expressed himself gratified but some-
what bored at the circumstance. Then the rough
colonial reached up to Glasgow’s manly red ear,
and asked, in a profound whisper, if the Governor
would mind him recording in that diary that he
had enjoyed the blessed privilege of conversing
with the Queen’s representative, and the Viceroy
told him that he wouldn’t mind it in the least.
The scene closed with a glad auctioneer rushing
for home to make the necessary entry while the
circumstances were still fresh in his so-called
mind.
* * #
Parson Webb (Q.), who deplores the un-
righteousness of the bushman across the range,
never heard of Mitchell. It has more churches
than pubs., and more parsons than churches. Its
chief attraction is a Wesleyan church painted
pink.
• * *
On the Fly River, New Guinea, commerce
is still in the “grip for grip ” stage. The barterers
grip each other’s barter, and exchange by letting
go their holds together. Civilisation employs
police to do its gripping—afterwards!
# # #
At a Brisbane police court the other day a
sly-grog case in a well-known shady shop was
being heard. For the defence elaborate plans of
the premises were introduced. “These,” said
Murray, the P.M, “ are not necessary. The house
is well-known to the magistrates on the bench ! ”
Then there was a solemn stillness broken only by
the sly, faraway smile of the foorce.
* * *
Some well - advertised cancer-remedies,
according to the English Medical Journal, have
been analysed, and consist entirely of pure water.
This doesn’t absolutely prove, however, that they
won’t cure cancer—in fact, water properly applied
assuredly will do so. The present writer knew
of a case in Maoriland when a hot, reckless,
fat man took his clothes off and stepped under
the stream, or rather the waterfall, which ran the
POLO MADE USEFUL-SETTLING THE RABBITS IN RIVERINA.
wheel of a big battery, and as the fluid had a
•clear dm®p of about 100 feet it just struck him on
the head once and abolished him. He didn’t have
•cancer, tat if he had it is quite obvious that he
'wouldnlt have had it any more.
* * *
(Police-Magistrate Lukin, of Maryborough
<(Q.) : “PH let you go this time, because it’s no
use punishing you. It’s also no use asking you to
keep away from the drink, but I do ask you to
keep clear of the police.”
jHobart social purists are grievously dis-
krrased, we hear, the Tasmanian National Gallery
lhaving been presented with a Chloe in oils. This
particular Chloe is partly clothed. Perhaps that
lis the reason of the “ distress.”
# # •
Sydney Echo is aggrieved because Max
D’Rell has not distinguished any national charac-
iteristies among Australians, and the Echo asks
lira,patiently whether Max has not discovered the
ilarrtkin. Evidently O’Rell hasn’t read the Echo
“much.
Much of the alleged schnapper in Sydney
(N.S.W.) restaurants is disguised stingray—the
‘stingaree ” of the word-improving native.
# * #
With commendable forethought, the site
for the new Kempsey (N.S.W.) Town Hall has
been selected at a spot sft. below the Macleay
River flood-mark. This is a highly ingenious
scheme to wash the local aldermen at least once in
a while.
* m *
There are now countless varieties of
Protestant nun about Melbourne. A new type,
just out, arrays itself in very jaunty suits, with
white collars and cuffs.
• • *
Beyond Dubho (N.S.W.), small-change
consists of kangaroo-scalps and pigs’-snouts
(according to a Dispatch man). The Stock and
Pastures Board gives 6d. for a scalp and Is. for a
snout aforesaid. You want a drink ? Down goes
a scalp. You “shout” for three? Down go a snout
and a scalp; or two snouts, and you get a scalp as
change. Nothing is more simple.
* # *
The religious ceremonial portion of Free-
masonry seems to be free from the Tory taint that
gives such an unpleasant odour to the internal
arrangements of the Craft. Two programmes of
Masonic services, held in Melbourne recently,
show a wholesome contempt for credal distinctions.
At St. Kilda Town Hall, for instance, the pre-
centor was a reverend Hebrew, the organist and
musical conductor represented Low and High
Church of England respectively, whilst the
sermon was preached by that plump Congrega-
tional cherub, Brother Bevan. Also, it was a
Wesleyan mayor who paid for the holy show.
A Nowra (N.S.W.) cornstalk, much
addicted to cursing, was once riding alone - an ugly
track with Rev. Mr. Dobbie. Asthe fearful oaths
emerged from the mouth of his unregenerate com-
panion, Dobbie felt down deep into a pocket for a
tract against swearing that he knew he had on him
somewhere. “Young man,” said he, suddenly,
“are you prepared to die?” The young fellow
turned, saw his stern-faced comrade with one of
his hands feeling suggestively in concealment, dug
in his spurs, and galloped off to a safe distance.
Then he shouted back: “Shoot now, you (bally-
bugcrusted) old bushranger, and be damned to you!
I don’t believe you could hit a (goggledamper)
bullock-team, (dogmast) your (bally) eyes !”
There is at present on view in Sydney a
picture that deserves more than a passing notice,
not only on account of its intrinsic artistic merits,
but because it deals with a subject distinctly Aus-
tralian. The painter, Mr. L. J. Steele, an English
artist resident in Maoriland, has sent this work
over for exhibition as a preliminary to his settling
in N.S.W. The scene depicted is “The Last
Stand of Captain Starlight,” and is a dramatic
representation of the final incident in Rolf
Boldrewood’s book, “Robbery Under Arms.”
The centre of the composition is occupied by Star-
light and his horse Rainbow, the bushranger being
in the act of firing at the approaching trooper,
who is out of the picture. The dead body of Jim
Marston lies in the foreground on the left, half
within the shadow of a gum-tree, while his brother,
Dick, is represented on the other side, in the
middle distance, powerless to help his leader,
having been placed out of the fight by a bullet
that has broken his right arm. In the rear two
troopers, under the direction of the superintendent
of Police, are executing a flank movement so as to
ensure the death or capture of Starlight. The
subject was one that presented many difficulties,
but Mr. Steele has surmounted them, and has
produced a very striking picture. Every detail
has been carefully studied and most faithfully
painted, and nothing could be finer than the draw-
ing of the foreshortened body of Jim Marston,
with the hands stretched out in the dying attempt
to grasp a revolver just out of his reach. The
figures of Starlight and his horse are admirably
posed, the expression of dogged determination on
the face of the cornered bushranger being particu-
larly well done. To those who are accustomed to
the so-called “broad ” work of many of our local
artists, the conscientious carefulness and high
finish of Mr. Steele may appear hard, but these
qualities are often great artistic merits.
THE LIFE-BOAT MAN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
„ me for my pluck, mate, I was born upon the
pon t pi alBe
, s f a ’>Un to man the life-boat comes quite natural to
And to e'P
'’mn’t be Ben Bosun, but a lubber, nothing less,
!f"[°didnt drop my pipe to aid a brother in distress.
, sor t o’ deadly peril in the work, I must allow,
There = , g ave > s an honour I’ve avoided up to now ;
Bllt »dav i ma/he drownded, that’s a fate we all expecks,
Though we’ve had a lot o’ practice in a-going out to
wrecks.
careful sir, as does it; when a vessel’s on a reef
We wait until we’re certain that she’s fairly come to
Stl* sea, God ’elp ’em 1 is a-runnin’ extry high,
We signals that assistance will be ready by-and-bye.
, or yer S ee, unless a steamer comes to take our boat in
It’s impossible to launch her when the stormy winds do
« oftentimes it’s happened that we sat upon the sands
While a noble craft was sinking-simply wringing of our
’ands.
you can fancy what’s our feelings and imagine our
regret *
still, ft’s best to stop ashore, sir, if you’ve got to be
Now” I’d sooner save a crew than hack the winner of the
But you can’t do deeds of valour in a boat that’s bottom-
itp.
Some thinks we ought to risk it, so them papers seem to
But the’dooty of a life-boat ain’t to chuck a chance away,
And we never put her off, sir, till we know we can arrive
At our awful destination as we ought to do—alive.
Bad luck to dirty weather! You’ll have noticed, boss,
ThaUfaccidents don’t ’appen when the sea’s as smooth
as glass.
The vessels goes to pieces, and the victims has to drown,
Before the ragin’ waters gets a chance to settle down.
We nearly saved some folks, a dozen year ago, or more :
A brig, as I remember, struck quite ’andy to the shore ;
It wasn’t far to pull, so, after waitin’ for a while,
Our captin says, “ Let's go, hoys!” and we went away in
style.
My word ! that teas a night, mate, as I never shall forget,
Before we saw the danger every man of us was wet;
The spray splashed in our faces if we stopped to have a
drink,
And we hadn’t quite got there before the brig began to
sink.
She vanished, more’s the pity! and we rowed around in
vain,
And saw no livin’ creature, ’cept ourselves, upon the
main,
But we found a baby’s body, ay, and brought it home all
right—
My ’cart leaps when 1 think, sir, of that memorable night.
The little thing lies buried to the left of Blackman Cave,
And once a year we hold a kind of meetin’ at the grave ;
The capt’in makes a speech, and then they calls on me to
“shout” —
For I first saw that baby, and ’twas me as pulled it out.
“God bless the brave old life-boat /” You may well say
that, indeed:
She is always true and willin’ in the solemn hour of
need:
And well deserves her title ; she may pitch a bit and roll,
But all the years I’ve known her, why, she hasn’t lost a
soul!
Melb.
E.F.
“ Try Gold-cure,” said they to the bard.
He glared with indignation—
“ And live,” he cried, “ a poet marred ?
No ! Thirst is inspiration !”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“ Win. L. L.” (Brisbane); The poet who makes
“sway” rhyme with “Thomas MTlwraith” is beneath
contempt “ A.D.” (Cape River): Probably, as you say,
Lawson and “Banjo” are both wrong-, and the bush is
perdition and the city is Gehenna. All the same, your
verse isn’t good enough... “ The Linkman We advo-
cate Protection partly because we choose, and partly
for the same reason that makes John Haynes perspire in
hot weather “Aramac”: Good, upstanding libel, 1(5
hands high “W.H.” (Waterloo): Will consider
“Victor” (Katoomba): Apparently you think half the
politicians going are “great” men. The average so-
called “great” man is only the biggest ant on a very
small blade of grass “Madcap” (Toowoomba): Blas-
phemy too complicated ...“Kiwi” (Melb.): Not good
enough ; also, there are too many poets interfering in the
Lawson- 11 Banjo ” dispute “Te Whiti”: Thanks
“ Coraki”: The maunderings of a religious enthusiast
“E.A.W.” (Gympie); It is unutterable rot to say that
Queensland has had 33 years of Protection ; per cent,
duties aren’t Protection. They are a “Freetrade"
revenue tariff .. “Young ’Un”: Don’t remember the
gentleman... “Nib”: You must put a lot more clothes
on your poetry before it is fit for publication. Verse in an
absolutely naked state won’t d 0.... “ Armorel ” : You are
evidently an unctuous bald man.... “Thomas Judge ” :
All your complicated scheme boils down to this- let the
State enact that all land shall be confiscated at the end of
20 years “ Rags ” : Compared to your conundrum, the
man who struck Buckley, and the lost sepulchre of Moses,
and the unsquared circle are nowhere “M.J.W.”
(Merrivva): Thanks “ Wheatsmith ” : Received.
“ Parmemio ” : Try to hit Bell and Davis’cheque with a
gun at two miles range first pop; then find Leichhardt’s
bones, and calculate the moral effect of Reid’s eye-
g'ass in logarithms. Then you’ll know the odds against
“ striking a treble ” a lot better than we can tell y0u....
“ Henry A ” (in the Bush): Received with thanks....
“Subscriber” (Byrock); Caucasian, in the ordinary
acceptation of the term, means simply a white man, the
white race being alleged to have originated in the Cau-
casus. We give up the other problem. Ask actor
Boucicault “ Silas M.” (Hawthorn): We couldn’t do it,
not even if Parkes got his hair cut,... “ Pencil Scrawl ” :
We don’t print wheezes about the old kings of Hungary. .
“Regains”: The boarder who stood on his landlord's
head and drowned him is melancholy stuff.... “ Cherry ” :
Thanks “ Paul Mell ” : The “ Mansions of the Bust”
is good sentiment but bumpy verse “H.W.”
(Mudgee): In all the 28 lines there is only one that is the
same metre. You can sort this statement out at your
leisure “H.P.L.”: Don’t worry about the “ Poet of
the Future.” He w ill help to fertilise the wattle which is
beside the stream that flows on for ever, and that tree
will be afterwards cut down to make the burning deck
that the boy stood upon “A. Strayaway ” : “The
proud spirit a proud God has made ”is good, anyhow. It
sounds as if Providence were a dog with a new collar.. ..
“Tas.” (King River): The ghost that turns out
to be a cat, and the cat that turns out to
be a ghost, and the horse that ultimately proves
to be an oil-painting are equally played out
“Polype”: “A Maoril.vnd Radical ” to hand. Awful
excitement in the office as a consequence “J.G.R.”
(Charlton): Hardly good enough. Besides, no Australian
horse will stand being called a “destrier.” You might
as well harness eight bullocks to a “ tumbril.”.. “ J.0.Q.”
(Wagga); The back-blocks racing swindle is an exhausted
subject....“ 8.M.” : The man who wants to call personally
and expostulate about his poem is received on the 29th
February only, provided that date falls on a Friday....
“George J.”: The story, we repeat, was written and
printed as a humorous 1ie.... “ Payneville ”: We know
absolutely nothing about “Robin Hood ” save that he has
an advt. in Tins Bulletin. If he likes lo invite us to see
his drawing, we’ll go and report “Aco ” ; The Law sel-
dom acquits a haggard, unshaven man ; it prevents him
shaving himself in gaol, and then it hangs him because he
looks so unpleasantly stubbly behind the spikes....
“ Scotia ” (Warbreccan, Q.): Catch a brown beetle with a
blue head, place him on an iced billiard-ball suspended
from a brass rod by an invisible platinum wire ; train him
to face a lighted candle ; move the candle from east to
west, one inch per hour, and then answer your own ques-
tion, and send us the result in post-dated stamps. ..
“Northerner”: It sounds like a well-known John-
Williams-the-missionary yarn rehashed, but, however
.... “ Caxtonian ” (Albany, W.A.): Item has been noted.
“ Jerry Grumble ” : The Bulletin has not “ cracked
up Dibbs because he is a Roman Catholic.” We don’t
care what he is, but are told that he is of a Protestant
family, and he is supposed to belong to the Church of
England. Barton is also, so far as we know, a Protestant.
Dibbs’ recent change of front from Republicanism fo
knighthood is abhorrent and revolting to The Bulletin,
which, however, can never forget that he possesses per-
sonal qualities such as candour, gratitude, steadfastness
in friendship, which make him, considered as a man, as
superior to Parkes as Higinbotham is to Griffith. Dibbs
once helped to get The Bulletin out of gaol, but, for all
that, w-e refuse to follow him into the Court of Queen
Victoria “W. 0.8.” (Cooma, N.S.W.): The Bulletin
was the first to announce that Dibbs, prior to leaving for
England, had received from the N.S. Wales Treasury
a cheque for at least LIOOO “ A.G.F.” : Thanks
“A.W.J.”: The successive exhibitions of Australian
Ministers alleging themselves to be Democrats and Re-
publicans, sitting up on their tails and begging for knight-
hoods, or greedily snapping at these dirty morsels wlun
flung out from the Queen’s back kitchen, as exemplified
in the instances of Sam. Griffith, and Graham Berry, and
George Dibbs, and Charles Lilley, have no doubt done
much to convince Salisbury that every colonist is, at
heart, a snob “Coro”: The “Naulahka” is suggested
by Collins's “ Moonstone,” but is poor in comparison....
“ Arbour” (Stawell): Your theology is that your best
girl is pretty, therefore there must be a heaven. And our
hash-house keeper is ugly, therefore there must be a hell.
By-the-bye, are you beautiful enough to serve as evidence
in the case? “Wombat”: If that story is true, the
two lovers were a pair of unspeakable asses.. “Loop-
lines” (Glen I.): The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners
emphatically did not emerge triumphantly frem both the
Sohey and the Hoyle enquiries. The Baldwin-engine
enquiry served a useful purpose ; it “disclosed defects in
the material used.” Hoyle, in our opinion, is far more
deserving of a public testimonial than the well-greased
Mr. Eddy, whose parchment applause comes only from
official toadies and party politicians “ C.W.” (Balmain,
N.S.W.): G. D. Clark’s motion for electing justices in
N.S.W. is a commendable idea “ Subscriber” (Parker’s
Range, W.A.): Both ancient “Z.Y.X.”: Notlongago,
you wnote a nice, legible, unpretending hand ; now r , spoilt
by getting into print, you have developed bighead and
hieroglyphed into the vanity of back - flourishing.
You are utterly lost “ Win. C.” (Paddington) :
Too much “ Mate Jim ” on hand already “A.G.T.”:
A libel, if an identifiable likeness “ Marion 0.”
(Eulo): No, you’d better not “chip in”.. “ Ipi ”:
Told w’eeks ago “Fred W.S.”-: Haven’t seen the
others. Send us something printable . “ J.F.H.”:
Good verse, but your idea has been hammered to thinness.
“C.A.C.” (8.H.): Very good “Fred” (Hock-
icirch): Obstetric jokes aren’t quite in our line “John
L.” (Ch.): Many thanks “ Louis K.” (W.A.); Thanks.
“A.O.” (L.C.): Please send exact address. Sans
Souci ” : Excellent. Will print “Verax”: Yes, five-
elevenths of Ulster’s Parliamentary representatives favour
Home Rule.


A BRILLIANT COMPLEXION
Anti Soft White Hands,
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
Arid all Skin Eruptions
"V anish. like Magic
By a few applications of
Professor Devon’s (Complexion Lotion.
The most wonderful cure of the I9th century. Mo more
sallow or dull complexions. Kot only will the Lotion
cl ar the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness, Sixty thousand bottles sol 1 in Paris and London
monthly, £3“?” Beware of worthless counterfeits - they
are both useless arid dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
ss, (i f „ Stamps or P. 0.0,
Prof, DEVON,
2O-CA.sn.Eßß.Uiii Street (Gitv), SYDNEY.
JOURNALIST, over 20 years’ experience,
desires Re-Engagement, any capacity, un-
exceptional references and testimonials, Address
•‘Scribe,” Lf i, let IN Office, Sydney.
‘ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.’
The Management beg to intimate to all who
have read this work, that the noted Oil
Painting, by L, J. Steele,
ENTITLED,
THE LAST STAND
—op
CAPTAIN STARLIGHT,
will be on VIEW for a short time
AT
Nos- 56 & 58 Strand Arcade,
BYl>\£V,
Ftum WEDNESDAY, Sept. 14, until Farther
Notice.
Doors Open—lo a.m. to 1 p.m., 2to 5, and
7 to 10 p.m.
Admission—ONE SHILLING.
Friday Afternoon-TWO SHILLINGS.
W, H. PULFORD
Manager.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
ICniiglil mill Exchanged.
J>l UK ARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCKS BOOK ARCADE,
All QEOKO E STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
a®
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Xow readi/, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M«hn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney,
Bright’s
Disease
Cured.
aREAT success is being scored in Sydney
with the Aubert Remedies. They have
really caught on well with our New South Wales
neighbours, who proclaim them a first-rate cure
for the various ills that frail mankind.is heir to.
Of course, when a medicine has attained the
wide popularity these medicines have gained for
themselves, there are bound to be a few dissentient
voices; it is the penalty of success, as it is of
greatness. But confident that the majority of
those who have given them a fair trial are
thoroughly satisfied with the result of their experi-
ment, the advice to one and all is, when they feel
that formidable enemy to application to duty,
cheerfulness of disposition, &e., a severe cold
coming on, to try Marupa. If the first dose does
not relieve, the second will.
K ir *dly. note the four Remedies, Marupa,
1 aramo, Karana and Natanata, each of which are
invaluable in their turn.
Karana as a Tonic cannot be surpassed, while
Paramo has now proved itself to be a cure for
Bright’s Disease. In a letter lately received from
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert, she states she
effected a perfect cure with it. The patient went
to her as a last resourse, for doctors had given
him up ; he was swollen in the face with the effect
of the disease. However, the worthy lady took
him in hand, and gave him a half teaspoonful of
Paramo every morning, and the same dose every
second evening.
After three weeks of that treatment he went
away perfectly restored to health.
This instance should prove how valuable these
herbal remedies are likely to become when they
were able to cure an affliction like Bright’s Disease
m its last stage.
Nothing Succeeds Like Success.
Three quarters of a year has now passed since
the AUBERT REMEDIES were first made
public, and it certainly can be now said that they
have earned a splendid reputation. As cures for
the several ills they are recommended for, there
can be no doubt of their good character. All
medicines put on a market must be reliable, be-
cause it matters not how much you advertise if
there are not the best qualities to work with, your
money will be ill spent and bring in no just return.
The Remedies under notice have conclusively
proved themselves to be sterling, otherwise the
sales would never have reached their present pro-
portions, nor would such valuable testimony have
been received as is now in the possession of the
proprietors.
In New South WaSes, where they are now being
introduced, a steady demand has already set in,
helped in a great measure by the evidence of
success in New Zealand.
“KARANA
Is a very favourite medicine, owing to its “tonic
and fortifying nature,” as testified by LORD
ONSLOW. It is quite harmless in its action, but
it is sure with good result, and must give satisfac-
tion to such persons as will give it a fair trial.
Most persons have an idea that one bottle of
medicine will cure their complaints, and if they
do not feel quite well after taking two or three
doses they give the Remedy up in disgust. Pro-
bably these people have gone on SUFFERING
FOR YEARS, and then, because they see an
article advertised which EXACTLY FITS
THEIR COMPLAINT, they feel they ought to
give it a trial; but what does this trial consist of ?
Merely a dose or two, and if in a day a cure is not
effected on a complaint which probably has taken
years to build up, they say the medicine is worth-
less and not worth bothering with. Few persons
like to accept good advice, but to one and all we
say, if our Remedy is,worth trying at all, let it at
least have a fair chance. A broken down con-
stitution cannot be built up again in a day, there-
fore we emphatically say that if
“KARANA”
is persevered with it will with everybody merit
the reputation it now has as one of the BEST
TONICS IN EXISTENCE.
MOTHER MARY has devoted years to ex-
perimenting, and in concluding her'labours has
produced Remedies from the vegetable world the
value of which no one can gainsay.
“KARANA”
Is the REGISTERED TITLE of MOTHER
AUBERT S TONIC. Obtainable everywhere.
2448
30th. July, 1892.
35,894.
THE above is the exact number of bottles of
Mother Aubert’s preparations sold during
the past twelve months in New Zealand.
“ MARUPA”
Proved to be a wonderful remedy for Coughs,
Colds, and all Bronchial affections.
m
S'.
h >■
-H
LADIES!
Us© Only
BROWN’S
SATIN
POLISH
on your
Boots
and
Shoes.
Sold by all Dealers.
B. F. BROWN & CO.,
Boston, U.S.A., M'f'gs.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
{BEST IN THE WORLD.)
To be obtained from all Grocers and Store -
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party : “ Why didn’t you keep t
Robertson’s Whisky? Look at me
drink nothing else ! ”
! I
tST" Coupons with Every Case.
THE IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to Castle-
reagh-street),
Between King I Market Sts.
SVIiXKV.
i
m~ IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY’
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
aoDOtUpt ««»()*[, JVpna ß ei,,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
The bank of new zealani
Sydney Branches:
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,C00
1,500,000
£2,400,000
Ihe Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
m Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
C. A. WILSON, Manager.
DEAF
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Relieves noises,&c.
in the head. Cures Deafness;
Send for book and partiou.
lars. Address the Sole
Agent : A. M. NAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne.
Furniture, etc.
AWLER and SONS’ “ SPECIALTY»
BARGAIN SALE. Y
L
The marvellous success attendant upon our Tr.ic
yearly “ Stock’’-taking Sale has induced us to ri'
mark the whole warehouse and to throw ouen f
the public the whole of the stock, and under l\
name and character of a ‘‘ SPECIALTY BAR 6
GAIN SALE ” continue the bargains in all n
departments, and maintain the reputation
amongst bargain-lovers we have gained c
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICES.
See Enamelled Mugs, large, at 8d
See Salt Cellars at 2d
See Candlesticks at 4d
See Hat and Coat Racks at is
and Is (id
See Fancy Cups and Saucers at
(id per pair
See Plates, large size, at 3d each
See Sponge Baskets at 4d and Cd
See Sponges at Bd, Is, Is (id, 2s
1*
T£S
Ask to be shown “LAWLER and SON,«4> »
SURPRISE-GIVING 5-HOLE CRUET at 12s
6d. This is a line cannot be beat at 225.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICES.
tpW~ Beautiful Large Glass
tW° Strong Knife Boxex, 9d ° ’
Blacking-brush Boxes, (id
8®" Strong Bellows, Is 6d each
tW Glass Sugars, (id each
Glass Butters, 6d each
Es?” Wine Glasses, 2d each
EST° Salt Boxes, each
Ask to be shown “LAWLER and SONS’ ”
SURPRISE-GIVING SET of 3 TIN DISH
COVERS at Is. Yes, this is a “ SPECIALTY ”
BARGAIN SALE.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS,
and
NOTE
the
PRICE.
Dish Mats by the Set, Is lid
Fancy Present Mugs, 5d each
Cheese Stands, Is (id each
Set Canisters, 8s
Ditto, 0 in Set, 9d
Beautiful Black and Gold Teapot
Is (id
White and Gold China Jugs, lid
Large Breakfast Trays, 2s Del
“la
'M
n
Ask to be shown the 23s and 2os Set of Large
Dish Covers, and you’ll say they are worth twice
the money.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER'S
WINDOW'S,
and
NOTE
the
PRICE.
(ESP" Splendid Oleographs, 2s
Ditto, large size, 3s 9d
JESP” Breakfast Cruets, Sd up
Carving Knives and Forks, 2s 6d up
Extra Large Brown Teapots, Is 3d *
: tW"' Handsome Splash Mats, 8d
Mincing and Sausage Machines, Gs
Gd up
SEP” Baking Dishes, extra strong, ;»d up
Any quantity odd “Cruet'’ bottles for Pepper
and Vinegar at 4d. each ; also odd chambers, any
quantity, Is. 3d. up.
LOOK IN
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS
and
NOTE
the
TRICES.
Enamelled Ware o£ all kinds in POTS
and PANS and CUPS and SAUCERS
and TEAPOTS and COFFEEPOTS, and
in TOILET WAKE, as also in SPIT-
TOONS and KETTLES, etc., etc., and
all marvellously low in price.
m
"IS
'ia
■m
Bargains abound, and to such an extent as to
make it utterly out of the question to convey an
idea of their extent.
LOOK IN’
at
LAWLER’S
WINDOWS
and
NOTE
the
BARGAINS.
Hearth Rugs at Bs. (Jd., worth 15s,
Ditto at 6s. 6d., worth 12s. Gd.
Oilclotli, 2 yards wide, at Is, 9d.
Tapestry Carpet at Is. Gd.
Brussels Carpet at 3s.
Window Blinds at 2s. lid. up.
Cornice Poles, with ends and rings, 4s6d
Door Mats, Is. 4d., Is. 9d., Is. lid.
Ask the CARPET DEPARTMENT to show
you the VELVET PILE TABLE COVERS at
215., reduced to that figure from 335. fid.
LAWLER and SONS’,
LAWLER’S,
LAWLER and SONS’,
LAWLER’S,
60S, 010, 012,
GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
LAWLER’S Name is, and has
been, the synonym for “Sani-
tary ” Bedding.
LAWLER’S have refused orders
before to.day, rather than be
tempted into touching cheap
bed stuffs.
Their best reward is in their
Great Trade.
As “ Complete ” and “Throughout ” Economi-
cal House. Ship and Hotel Furnishers. LAWLER
and SONS HAVE NO EQUALS.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S IF YOU WANT
TO BE SAFE.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S IF YOU WANT
VALUE.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S AND SAVE 30
PER CENT.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S AND YOULL
BE SATISFIED.
FURNISH AT LAWLER’S AND HAVE NO
TROUBLE.
Get “ Lawler and Sons’” Furnishing Guide or
Household Companion, which enables you to fur-
nish at your own fireside just as completely as if
on the floors of the house. Furnish now and save
money, but whatever time you furnish call upon
LAWLER’S,
008, 610 AND 012 GEORGE STREET,
Sydney.
MALTO-
QUIIMIA
SUPERIOR TO ALL OT1IE1!
PREPARATIONS
AGUE,
DEBILITY,
IN FLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
X (Lure (or
WINE.
Wholesale Agents:
LANGE <sc THONEMAN,
Hi;l It 011 ic XK.
golden shanty
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
W itlxin
Near ST. MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WALES.
Forty (40t Miles of Sydney on Western
Railway Line.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Rig hts,
° W A =D Y F Q B lUSFECTIQIT A.JST3D SELECTTniM &
rr COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY—PENRITH TO MULCH) A.
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa, or to Sydney Agents,
llnrclic & Gorman, 133 Street Sydney.
William Scarrah was, the other day’
charged before the local Acting-Magistrate at
Fremantle, W.A., with having assaulted Ellen
Leurington, a married aborigine. From the West
Australian
The Bench, after hearing the address for the defence,
said that there was not sufficient evidence upon which to
send accused for trial, and therefore he would dismiss
the information ; but, as he had no doubt that the offence
had been committed, and in view of the very bad record
of the accused, he would send him to gaol for two years,
with hard labour (11!)
The correspondent who forwards this extract
adds “ This is not a misprint, but a solid fact,
as I found out by enquiry.”
In a Baltimore (U.S.A,) cemetery lie the
remains of a man and his two wives. The man’ B
grave is in the centre, and he has a wife on either
side of him. On each lady’s tombstone is a hand
■which once pointed towards the husband’s burial
place, with the inscription attached: “I was
his.” On the husband’s grave are two hands
pointing to the remains of the two wives, with the
brief remark ; “ They were mine.” But time and
the irony of fate have slewed round the slab over
the younger of the two wives, and the hand above
her dust now points towards a deceased Italian
fruit-vendor with the statement, “I was his,”
while through the sinkage of her tombstone the
warning finger on the husband’s slab is directed
over her head towards a defunct actress, There
is probably a great, neglected truth in that
cemetery.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £S 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street,
H. A. Rose, chemist, 531 George-street,
Sydney, whose celebrated Eye Lotion is known
all over Australia, as his numerous testimonials
will show, has lately enlarged his shop, adding all
tlie latest improvements. He can be relied on for
the making-up of prescriptions, special care and
attention being devoted to this branch of his
business. Chemicals, patent medicines, perfumery,
etc., can always be obtained at this well known
establishment. *


Wolfe's Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
TYDYMy rUTT.V LEFEBVRE & SONS’ Prim
unmn UiilUl Australian Wines equal to
best French and Spanish vintages. Sold at Australian
vineyard quotations. Offices and Stores; 52!) COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE, Vic,
ODONTO
A pure and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-pai’asitic and slight'y alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth where decay originates, removes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath ; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2s. 9 d. per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes red or grey hair a permanent Brown or
Black, 4s. A.sk any dealer in perfumery for
Howlands’articles,of 20,Hatton Garden,London.
m- CAN THIS BE TRUE?
f
df
s,
I,
s.
T
0
N
H
1 A
1 V
i I
|N
G
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss,Borax. Gum, Wax. &c.
PREVENTS : The Iron from scorching or sticking.
PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES : Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers.
YES ! TRY IT AND SEE I
L
ran
Oil
oo
me; i want
Tea I
never driany
other. iTii tlrubcit
Cheapen, [
\/b . iff -*
10 mo lb-chats -
|6; UuSSX*
V^nrH.MumU j
TTUnajar
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, September 13, ISO 2.
f|TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
I SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Goveiinhbnt Ga/.kttk.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.rn. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21.
Bridge, Ournie Creek, road Bowna to Welare-
gang
Bridge, Page RiVer, at Pethick's Crossing
Construction of Open Shed on Wharf at Coraki,
Richmond River
Construction of Passenger Jetty, Tweed River
Heads
Bridge, Foxall’s Creek, road Goulburn to Marulan
Recaulking Floors, &c., Hospital for the Insane,
Callan Park
Erection of Cottages, Coffs Harb.r and.Wool-
goolga
Pipe Laying, Moama Water Supply
Bridge, Otley’s Creek, road Wallengra to Goona-
windi
Bridge, Campbell River at Lagoon, road O Con-
nell to Perth Railway Station
Bridge, Boomi Creek, road Goongolan to Bre-
warrina (fresh tenders)
Construction of Long Cove Creek, Stormwater
Channel (Contract Bb, Sydney Sewerage)
Erection of Coaling Wharf and Extension of pre*
sent Wharf, Garden Island
Fencing at Neutral Bay Reclamation Works
Obley’s
New Coal Store, Garden Island
Additions Lockup, Molong
Electric Light Installation, Docks, Cockatoo
Island
Erection of Weigh Bridges, Railway, Culcairn to
Corowa
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5,
Bridge, Box Creek, road Oxley to Tarra A-oug
Supply of Cast-iron Water Pipes and Special
Castings, Bathurst Water Supply
Bridge, Coolac Creek, road Yass to Gundagai
Bridge, Greenwattle Creek, road Dunmore to
Clarence Town
Bridge, Moogin Greek, road Dunmore to Clarence
Town
Bridge, Bartie Creek, road Dunmore to Duugog
Bridge, Hanley s Creek, road Dunmore to Duugog
Repairs Post and Telegraph Office, Wentworth
Erection of Lands Office, Morec
Erection of Police Quarters, Bowna
Bridge, Bungonia Creek, at Bungonia
Erection of Cottage, Pilot Point, Richmond River
Bridge, Skinner’s Gully, road Moree to Muugindi
Bridge, Deadman’s Creek, road Dunmore to
Clarence Town
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19.
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c., Jerilderie Water
Supply
Supply of about 20,000 tons Cast-iron Pipes,
to be manufactured in New South Wales
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes and Special Castings,
&c., Dubbo Water Supply
Bridge, Terrebola Creek, road Goodooga to Bre-
warrina
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tooumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales. •
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
fohn Pile, of Adelaide, has decided to send his
' pieohase crack, Confidence, to Fleinington and Caul-
Ji e *d in the hope of meeting Redleap and Boulevard.
# * j#
Another mare, La Fleohe, has pulled off the
Doncaster St. Lcger, and proved again the absurdity of
v Ring any allowance for sex in the autumn. Tiie winner
U f the Daks is always worth backing for the Leger in
°reference to the colt that won the Derby. La Fleche’s
Victory over Sir Hugo is quite in accordance with the his-
(orv of a rape in which really first-class fi I lies have been
invincible since the time when Achievement beat Hermit.
* * »
Shearing is in full swing now in many parts of
the country—also at Raudwick.
Meinmott, the Australian billiard champion,
was (jf he is not now) a bookmaker.
# ft #
Since 18(54 the V.R.C. Derby has been won once
bv a grey, once by a black colt, twice by chestnuts, ten
times'by browns, and fourteen times by bays. One grey
ITorvboy) has won a Melbourne Cup, and one chestnut
(Glencoe), while no less than nineteen bays have won the
big stake. # *
A horse owner, up North, ran his horse “stiff”
the other day, and narrowly escaped disqualification. At
next meeting the horse won, and the owner was there-
upon violently assaulted by two other owners who were
on the job in "this particular event. TEsop’s fable of the
old man and his ass over again.
# * *
Amusing to note how tiie Melbourne advertising
tipsters throw dirt at one another.
# # #
The reporters of boxing—not boxing reporters,
please—must he either fools or rogues. One man whose
j ol ,i, walks, and exercise, and careful living were lately
chronicled in a certain print, could be seen any evening
yniu-r drunk around town.
° # * ft
What a satire on the tipsters are the results of
the A.J.O. spring meeting !
ft ft #
What price the Maoriland trio of sports at
Raudwick! 11. Redwood, Major George, and S. H.
Oollan.
* ft ft
At St. Leonards (Sydney) Bicycle Club meeting
last Saturday, W. J. Hodgkinson won the 10 miles amateur
championship of N.S.W. in 29 min. 12 sec., making record
far tiie province.
# ft ft
That over-inflated balloon, boxer Pheasant, “bust
up” badly last week, when Richardson knocked all the
o-as, and pints of blood out of him, in a few rounds, at the
Darlinghurst Hall. Pheasant (who had to be taken to
the hospital to get his lip stitolled up, after the contest,
which was only a boxing-match and not a fight, you know'),
showed no mercy to Heffernan, when he had that boxer
bjaten, and it is only fair to Pheasant to say that lie
asked for none from Richardson, but took his gruel like a
mam Pheasant should now add to his prayers, “save me
from the press and advertising friends.”
* ft ft
There was big excitement at “ the Park,”
Sydney, last week over the Trot. Silver Cloud was sent
out to win, and Blott was put up in the sulky behind her.
He set sail, and soon passed everything but the flying
pacer, Isabel, and just as Cloud looked like going by the
little mare, an old woman deliberately made a pass at her
with an open parachute, and the Cloud broke up. The
croud, who have backed the Cloud times out of number,
seemed furious at the prospect of her winning when they
were “ not on,” and pelted her with clods of clav, and
other missiles, and a big demonstration was made when
Isabel won. Blott, after the race, said that so far from
being disappointed at not winning, he felt overjoyed at
escaping with his life.
# * *
An offer for Redleap has been cabled from
Engl md.
ft ft ft
lii selling races it is the public that is sold.
# # *
Insolvent members of the A.J.O. have now to
resign and come up for re election after being white-
washed.
* ft *
We have received 700 letters, more or less,
reminding u i that it was not the late Mick O’Brien, but
a M midland jockey, who rode Carbine when he was beaten
by Hales’ mount in V.R.C. Derby.
* ft ft
Autonomy’s defeat in the A.J.O. Spring Stakes
does not make him out to be such a wonder after all.
ft # ft
Bungebah’s victory in the Spring Stakes up cts
the idea that his great pace did not extend beyond a mile.
* ft ft
Apotheosis of the prad. In sporting literature,
the same relative pronoun is applied to man and horse.
No one would write “ Marvel, winch,” &c.
* ft .ft
For the world’s heavy-weight championship
there are now three men in the running - Corbett, Jack-
son, and Goddard, and, on public form, there is little to
choose between them. Jackson fought draws with both
C irbett and Goddard, and though Peter's condition is put
f award as an explanation in both cases, they were draws
ail the same.
* # ft
It is said that Vespasia, Bendigo, Florrie, and
Dau O’Connor weie withdrawn from the Hawkeshnry
because the people who “drew ” them in the big sweep
refused to stand in
Vitality an 1 colour are restored to weak and
gray hair, by the use of Ayer’s Hair Vigor,
Through its cleansing and healing qualities, it
prevents the accumulation of dandruff and cures
all scalp diseases.
As no N.S.W. politician has so many
personal friends as has Dibbs, a very warm
welcome was extended by them on his return to
Sydney last Tuesday by the American mail. The
injury that Dibbs’ reputation for sturdy independ-
ence has sustained by the fact that he departed
as a clearskin and avowed Republican and
"returned as a branded knight, is obtrusively
apparent in the desperate efforts of his special
champions to invent excuses for his pitiable fall.
Lie most common of these is that Dibbs under-
went the surgical oneration of knighthood with
sorrowful fortitude as a heroic means of raising
his country's credit —saving it, in fact, from insol-
vency. The political ideal pictured is the prosti-
tution of a child to save the life of a mother. It
18 too far-fetched in any case. And, if it were
n °t, it is an apotheosis of the meanest kind of
•cowardice inverted so as to appear as in the guise
■of godlike heroism. The genuine atoms of the
Republic (living, though unorganised) will con-
Ltiue to hoot every sham Republican like Dibbs.
The Government in their endeavours to
keep the peace at Broken Hill have apparently
been offering inducements to burglars and in-
cendiaries in Sydney robbing Peter to pay Paul.
About 320 police have been dispatched to Broken
Rill, of whom 280 have been sent from Sydney
and suburbs. The metropolitan division numbers
”00 men all told, so that nearly one-half Sydney’s
Police are at Broken Hill. We strongly advise
"he business and private public to keep valuables
ln the Sydney Safe Deposit.*
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, =£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
tailors and Habit-makers. 75 King*street.
The Wild Cat Column.
I uoplc who claimed’that the Broken Hill miners
would he beaten by starvation or other distress in a month
lit tie know (ho amount of grit in tire average practical
miner. \\ henever a real opportunity has occurred
miners have shown themselves at the head of the world's
heroes. Real miners never blackleg, and the sort of men
who, at such crises as the present, are engaged by over-
reaching employerdom to replace locked-out unionists are
the meanest of the mean, the very scum of the earth.
• * #
Rev. Mr. Morris, of Tam worth (N.S. W.), wants
to discount the luck of original Broken Hill Proprietary
shareholders by asking people to remember the thousands
of pounds sunk in other claims w hich had not paid a
shilling profit to “investors.” Not only is it totally
beside the question (o vindicate the artificial and dis-
honest inflation of a profitable mine because other mines
have been unlucky (!), but Parson Morris is confounding
“gamblers” with “ investors.”
* ft *
Newton and Rossiter, the only two survivors of
the While Rock, have again made a start with that awful
example of N.S.‘Wales’ silver mania. Mine and machinery
on which tens of thousands have been spent stand them in
at £OOOO only ; hence, if the mine will not pay at that it
must he an everlasting duffer. Concentration of very
low-grade ore is the difficulty. The specific gravity of
the mineral is such as to render effective concentration
almost impossible. With a chloridising plant on the
ground to reduce the concentrates to bullion, additional
vanners and the erection of the remaining 40 heads now
on the ground they would probably make it pay, but
without these additions we are very much afraid of it.
# * *
A 120-acre block of land is, we are told,
held under gold-mining leases, by one man, on the
Kooltahookra goldfield, N.S. W. No work of any kind
lias, it is stated, been done upon these leaseholds for
some years, and at least 100 acres of them have never yet
been tickled with a pick. Adverse applications by
persons willing to test the ground have resulted in
noth ng further than an apparently approving inspection
by the Warden’s bailiff. The holding potentate’s exclu-
sive rigid, to the ground remains impregnable, and, with-
out employing labour, he may snugly hold on to
privileged possession until an adjoining” claim strikes
something rich and makes his “ property ’’—comprehen-
sive term—worth market manipulation.
ft ft #
During the Charters Towers boom seats were
bought on the C.T. Exchange for 250 guineas ; £lO cash
would secure one now. The said boom was engineered by
an enterpiising individual who had (or thought he had)
the entire confidence of one of the local banks, and tilings
were very well indeed until a word came along from the
head-office.
ft ft *
It is time some restrictions were placed
upon that glaring bane to mining enterprise paid-
up shares. Paid-up interest is invariably held by
the “first robbers,” and the delightful privilege which
immunity from call-paying gives promoters to hang on
indefinitely has led to the undoing of many a genuine
nvestor. The holder of paid-up shares is usually “in the
know',” andean play a waiting game, and starve out the
honest and trusting and paying shareholder, should there
be secret proofs that there is a good thing on. There
w ould be fewer wild-cat ventures boomed with a blaze of
big names if there were no such tilings as paid-up shares
—except to bona-fide owners. Paid-up shares usually
mean Swindle.
* # #
T. H. Williams, M L. A., for Upper Hunter,
lias given notice in Parliament of his intention to move
that the whole of N.S.W. be proclaimed a goldfield.
This, with a free-and-easy Mining on Private Property Act
(when the latter is passed) should satisfy the most
ravenous prospector.
ft ft *
The Victory mine, Charters Towers, lias declared
its 32nd dividend. The hope of striking the Brilliant reef
was long entertained by shareholders, but the event was
so delayed that thousands of shares wore sold by followers
of the axiom that anticipation is always greater than
realization—true in too many cases, but not so in this.
So far as developments and ernshings have gone, the
Brilliant reef has increased in lichncss in the Victory
ground, where it is averaging five to six ozs. to the ton,
and returning lens of thousands in dividends. It has
saved more than one Sydney man from bankruptcy.
ft ft ft
The Opliir mine, Croydon, Q., which recently
returned a 33000 z. cake, is worked by a party of six
trihutors, who have another twelve months to.-run. We
can quite believe that they will work (lie mine for all it is
worth, and not forget to pray for rain during the coming
v ar. Croydon is a drought-stricken country, with
precious little water-catchment when rain does fall.
# # *
Tim working of a rich tribute is often an exciting
opera! ion when the end N hear. One at Gvmpie had
several local-preachers among the shareholders, who,
under ordinary circumstances, would not work on the
Lord's Day for any consideration. Their tribute expired
at twelve o’clock on Sunday night, ami on that, as well as
on several previous Sundays, they worked as hard, os they
knew how, and all the stone they could not crush they
look good care to remove from the mine, in compliance
with (he conditions of the tribute. On Bendigo, we have
seen six stiifts of men in a good tribute helling away for
their very lives, and paid £2 10s. for 24 hours’ work a
week.
# # ft
What has become of the Nambncca Heads
mine? asks a correspondent. It has reached that
quiescent stage so characteristic of N.S.W. goldmines.
Two years back it came before the public in occa-
sional newspaper paragraphs re an immense and rich
pyrites gold-hearing body. Treatment was the only diffi-
culty. It generally is in N.S.W. Parcels of a few tons ot
ore were sent to Ballarat, Clyde, and elsewhere, and
these returned many ozs. to tlie ton. When the writer
was asked what he thought of these wonderful returns he
simply advised the owners to send hundreds and
thousands of tons in the same direction if they had it.
The mine is not far from a shipping port. Ei entually, at
a cost of some thousands, chlorination-works were estab-
lished. Then came the little, very little, share boom.
Tiie crop ot fools is perennial; and so many people
believed the newspapers and bought shares up to 355.
Finally came the return of some 2 ozs. to the ton, when
fully five times the yield was anticipated. Now, every-
thing is as silent as the grave, and shaves are offered at
7s. Cd., with apparently few, if any, buyers at any price.
# # »
The “ Wild Cat ” man is cordially urged to come
to the Swamp Oak field by a correspondent whose letter
clearly indicates him a pnactical miner. The field is
described as a good little field, but the tremendous
parentheses with which that “ little” is enveloped indi-
cate that between his and the opinion expressed in these
columns about the field there is no great gulf. Our
correspondent speaks favourably ot the Highland Mary,
Victory, Rainbow, Rising Sun and Great Britain, and says
the claims are mostly held by poor men, which accounts
for their being worked on a small scale. The reason we
supply—it is because the curse of the New England “ Wild
Cats” is upon it, to wit—Enmore Consols, Bear Hill,
Hopetoun and “ pups,” Butcher’s Reef, Castlerag and
“ pups,” Webb’s, White Rock, Red Rock, and a string of
others.
ft ft ft
At last the Pambula newspaper correspondent
has issued a wail concerning that frosty field. He
deplores a rapidly-diminished population, the desertion of
tiie mines, even the sly-grog shanties have not survived.
Less than 100 wages-men are employed, and the place is
again almost a howling wilderness. Of course lie puts it
all down to bad management. They generally do in
N.S.W. But our experience has been that a rich and
permanent field will “boss” the worst management. It
requires precious little management, good or bad, to
delve out rich ore if it’s there. Pamhula’s trouble is
simply the absence of sufficient gold. Eight months ago
Pambula prospects were here sized up and the writer was
laughed at as a pessimist. Time has brought shares down
to zero ; absolutely worthless blocks have been deserted,
and a sincere pity for the deluded local cheese-and-hacon
raisers forbids the enjoyment of a little laugh ourselves.
Another attempt is being made to form an
electric power and water company at Hillgrovo, N.S.W.
At one time it was proposed to bring water from the Gara
River, at another to generate electrical power there. This
was followed by others to utilise the tremendous falls at
Wollomomhi. Each scheme was very practicable, but they
all had one great drawback—want of money. It is now
proposed to conserve the water at the head of Baker’s
Creek Gorge—another feasible project, provided the pro-
moters have enough coin.
* * ft
At present it looks as if the rich run of gold
worked near the surface of the Sunlight mine had dipped
into the adjoining property, that of the West Sunlight,
whose ten-head battery is nearly ready to start on a fairly
large body of stone, estimated to average about an ounce
to the ton.
ft * *
Balstrnps, like the rest of the Tasmanian silver-
mines, appears to have almost fizzled out. If ever a pro-
perty had a chance to assert itself, this had. Taken in
hand by the Broken Hill Proprietary following, led into
it by Bowes Kelly, it had a tremendous working capital,
which has been expended in thoroughly prospecting the
lodes in every direction. True, the Manganese Hill lias
all the external characteristics of the big .Barrier mine,
with one exception-comparative absence of silver.
* * #
A gloomy description of “Zeehan in 1892”
appears in the Mining Standard. The population is set
down at 5000, the hotels described as numerous ; new
railways are spoken of, and everything accomplished is
said to be the work of a twelvemonth. The last is the
biggest cram of the lot. The writer was in the district
over IS months ago when the boom was at a maddening
pitch. The field was then a year old, the Zeehan railway
was in course nf construction, and the population greater
than now. To talk in the strain of this correspondent of
a Held writhing in insolvency is to wear the belt as an
optimist but to sit at the bottom of the class of truth.
* # #
Speaking of the Hargreaves mine, tbo Austra-
lian Star, innocently or otherwise, says that an inspec-
tion of the ore-will be convincing proof of the “ richness of
the property ’ the inspection of a man with a heavy
15-carat gold chain would lie convincing proof of his
wealth. The Bulletin trusts that Hie richness of Har-
greaves mine will exceed the hopes of its most sanguine
shareholders, and it will bo mighty rich to do that.
That, however, has yet to be proved, and the finding of
a bonanza on a field famous or infamous for its patchy
nature is nothing to “ gas ” about. We compliment the
shareholders on the pluck displayed in the working of
this mine, for which it is to he hoped they will receive
just and generous reward ; but the writer would remark
that legitimate mining operations and the frequent
exhibitions of specimens seldom run in harness.
* # #
“When anything came before the board of
directors in which its chairman, Sir M. 11. Davies, was
interested, he withdrew from the board-room, and the
fact of his departure was carefully recorded in the minute-
hook.” This interesting it m appears in the report of the
Colonial Investment and Agency Co. of Melbourne. All
the same, the Colonial I. and A. Co. burst in the usual
hopeless manner, and it burst because of the money
which it advanced, presumably, when Davies was out of
the room, to companies in which Davies was largely
interested. Which suggests one of two things-either
that stern Roman K.C.M.G. should have stayed in the
board-room, or else that the other directors should have
cleared out along with him.
A GREAT LIBRARY.
DYMOCK TO THE FRONT AGAIN.
Seldom, if ever, have the book-collectors of
Sydney had a better chance of adding to tiieir
library than that at present afforded by Mr.
Dymock, at his well-known Book Arcade, George-
street. This magnificently-arranged establish-
ment, at any time, is well worth a visit, but just
now additional interest attaches to it, as there
is on view the whole of the late Mr. Street’s
library, which is, without doubt, the finest collec-
tion ever offered for sale in the Australian. So im-
portant was this collection considered by the
executors that they had almost decided to send it
to London for disposal when Mr. Dymock, with
his well-known pluck, stepped in and made a
handsome offer, which was accepted. To attempt
to describe the library would require the services
of a Quaritoh or a Bohn, but the writer being
neither of these gentlemen, his readers will have
to be satisfied with a rough description.
First and most important Come the Australian
books. This branch is rich with works relative
to the early history of Australia and is considered
by Mr. Dymock to be the most complete he
has met during the whole of his business
experiences. On the next dounter we find a
huge assortment of biographical works, which,
we were told, contains over 1500 volumes.
Close by we sa w the laughable sketches of Leech,
Cruikshank, Caldecott, llawlinson, and the dash-
ing drawings of Gilray, Hogarth, &c. A little
further we come to a complete set of Bewick’s
works. In the art books wo found all the masters
thoroughly represented. To enumerate the stock
would take up too much space, but to a casual
visitor the works are shelved too crampcdly to
give an adequate idea of their value. As
the library has taken over 40 years to collect,
it seems a pity that it should now be broken up,
but any gentleman who is desirous of adding to his
library will now have the one chance of a lifetime.
Mr. Dymock has already been honoured by a
visit from his Excellency Lord Jersey, the Mayor
of Sydney, and a number of the leading citizens,
who all expressed their surprise at the magnitude
of the library, his Excellency in particular being
panegyrical as to its quality. In conclusion, we
would strongly advise all to take the really
generous offer of the proprietor to inspect his large
and varied stock.
N.S. Wales has paid away half-a-million ot
money during the last ten years in pensions and
gratitude. Plundered !
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £3 3s. Praha it and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King street.


ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
OM
HC
H£P^MUVSotisc
m
oMtimnuiSKh
* FttmiMC)r*JS /-A
X*
r/vrj
M
sss
r?v
«8*
r'fv;
S£P
GOLD MEDAL.
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS.
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
DISCOVERED and. REGISTERED Toy
Herr
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured. Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWOBN TESTIMONY-
Statutory
HHil
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Bassmussen’s
PUBELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the P»ace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. — I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies, I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wsi. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish HerbaMst.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Cour remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen—I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both i n my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.— F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen,—I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.—A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, ICO
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling-off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.— J. CoLeman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir,—One single bottle of your
Vlfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.—P. H. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen.—l have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers : I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole
Proprietor,
■as
Hi
m
r
*
HERR RASSMI SSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OP THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR-”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the “Centennial History of
N. S- Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Roxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Fills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted, Is. 6d.,
30., Os. and 235. Od.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Fills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds. Boxes,
posted, 35., Os., and 235, 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills,
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and ShvJf
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiiier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautiiier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off. Posted,
3s. and Os.
Herr Rassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“ Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”—Australian Star.
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
1 ruth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”—Troth.
tt u Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.”—Cooktown Courier (Q.). ’
“It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
“Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them. Mr
Karnsden’s case is the most wonderful, and Ins remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “ doctors ” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
humanity,”—Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”—The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales.”—The Essenden and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser.—lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable. - Wm, H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and .Nervous
Diseases, Varioocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any kind. Ordinary course, 235. 6d.
posted. Special powerful double course, 435. Cd. posted. Boxes at
6s. and 12s.
Chief Head Depot:
547 GBOEGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
pgr MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Hoad Depot;
150 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
fgST Rune lies sent Duly Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 BUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
[g' Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
QUEE jtT STEEE T,
BRISBANE.
Kenu'dics sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALKALINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY HE OBTAINED FROM THE ABOVEMENTIONEI> DEPOTS.
“ The 3\Tatural Doctor.”
a 7ali;ible and - Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. Posted, Is.
. May be obtained from all Depots.
Important.
Always solid money by P.O. Order, and register all letters containing same. AH correspondence
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “The Alfaline Medical Guide,” sent free on
receipt of addressed and 2d. stamped envelope.


Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations-
OOME’SiMUSIC
L
Full Music Size ami Guaranteed Correct.
d
%
POST
FRtt
or,
;{ Corns, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
49. Call Me Back Again.
253. Starlight Nell.
267. Then You’ll Remember Me.
295. White Wings.
410. Who’s that Calling so Sweet.
411. Swig that Reached My Heart.
427. A Little Peach in an Orchard grew
528. Bogie Man.
566. Gipsy Countess (vocal duet)
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver in E.
569. Maggie Murphys Home.
PIANOFORTE.
473. Ath die March. Mendelssohn.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively
the holborn music stores,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Cvery class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock.
Uow'to Learn “Theßtnjoin 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
list. 1815] TRADE SUPPLIED. ]Est. 1845
Gin also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says :—“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
‘‘SALON,” May, ’9O; “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.8.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of tbe kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of tbe
ngure without the iniurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN 'WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don tbe put off with old shapes ; insist on
naving our new long waist. If any difficulty in
CDtainiug from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
1 in: AUSTRALIA HOTEL,
WSTUSKEAGH street, svovev.
ACKNOWLEDGED, by universal consent, to be the
aiut p BEMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA,
Uo, n Pa i'e with the best in Europe and
a ' * I,B Australia has bad the honour to enter-
ve , ry illustrious visitors, amongst others
•Sheffield v n l?ernhardt ’ H- M. Stanley, Max O’Rell, Loi
Lord
Shpni ,in >, pernna
ei,. I. el . lie Parren, Fred. Leslie, Sir Henry Norman,
el.. „n 7 1 «i rei
J-m., all of whom have
DuuA Ino( * ation anti atlei >iion shown them "at Tim Als-
expressed their delight with the
tc t’c.ri£ inrlndts all meals, a hit mnffc~
from 12s. Gd. no' </<<//.
m *hUiiicat!ons should be ad Ireased to
mi:
m
&
a li
a
H'
CC V-
•'■l ■ *
4».<10# iu Lse. Kiuord, 170 words per iiilnufo.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 flrst-olsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY; J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizabeth-st. ; MEL-
BOURNE; C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J. Walch & Sons.
TV/TRS. ANNA RUPPERT’S Lectures in England and
- LVL America have made her famous as a Complexion
Specialist, and world-renowned, because of the excellence
of her valuable SKIN TONIC, which is a cure for acne,
eczema, oilyness, coarseness, discoloration, &e. Try it.
Harmless. Does not show. Is effective and permanent.
12s. fid. per bottle. Sydney Office, 153 Strand.
Miscellaneous.
FAC-SIMILES
Of the beautiful Academy Picture,
“HEADS OVER TAILS,”
By Miss DOROTHY TENNANT,
Which created such a sensation in London, can be
obtained (until further notice), FREE OF COST, by
forwarding to
LEVER BROS., L T .?
Clarence Street, Sydney,
25 SUNLIGHT SOAP WRAPPERS,
With 50 it will be Framed, and with 100 Wrappers
Framed in Gilt.
This Picture is fit for any Drawing-room.
|3?“ Fifty (16 Silver and 34 Keyless) Watches will be
given the Quarter ending 30th June to Boys and Girls,
aired from 11 to 14, w'ho send in the most SUNLIGHT
SOAP WRAPPERS. If not successful one quarter, the
Coupons will be carried forward to the next, so that all
who try may get a prize.
GOLD MEDAL PARIS EAIIHUTION, 1889.
Your Clothes last longer with its use.
NO ROUGH HANDS WITH SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “ A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
MARSHALLS ,
TONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
naiiiHi!!)
]/
V^txW-t
GIVES NERVE POWERS
EPmotes
IMPROVES DIGESTION
498 & 500 GEORGE STREET.
A.ustral Clothiers.
T/fAOeMARK
/f!°
Gent.’s Cape Overcoats—2s/- to 47/6.
Qent.’s Chesterfield Overcoats—ls/6 to 30/-.
Gent.’s “Austral” Business Suits —27/6
to 50/-.
Gent.’s D. T. Black Parramatta Cape Water-
proof Coat—3o/- to 55/- (sewn seams, and
guaranteed).
OUR CELEBRATED
H.R.H WHITE SHIRTS
(made by Welch, Margetson & Co.)
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.
25/6, 33/-, 37'6, 42/-, 45/-,
the Half Dozen.
Gent.’s Silk Umbrellas 8/6' to 45/-.
MERCERS, HATTERS, and JUVENILE CLOTHIERS.
is
•*&
fHE- SEST
d
Dr. M. PERRY, M.R.C.S. (by Exam. 1866), L.S.A., &c.,
Late House Surgeon Great Northern Hospital, London ; Legally Qualified and Registered by
the Medical Board of N.S.W.
Specialist for the Treatment of Nervous and Kindred Complaints.
Dr. Perry’s extensive hospital and private practice in these diseases enables him to tell his patients
plainly whether the disease is curable or not, and consequently he is willing (provided The patient follows
his instructions) to GUARANTEE A PERMANENT CURE IN EVERY CASE HE UNDER-
TAKES. Persons suffering from Chronic Diseases hitherto deemed incurable are invited to consult
Dr. Perry. His Scientific Electrical Appliances and Skilful Treatment has enabled him to Cure many
Chronic Complaints which have been pronounced Incurable.
A Genuine Electric Belt for £l.
VARICOCELE.— Dr. Perry’s method of treating this distressing complaint has been most suc-
cessful, and those who have tried other practitioners without success, would do well to consult him.
In the large majority of cases no operation is necessary.
Tumours and Diabetes specially treated.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
At the request of many of his friends, Dr. Perry has decided to treat cases of Alcoholism. Dr.
Perry cures this disease by using the most scientific and successful methods, including the Chloride of
Gold Lr. Perry has made arrangements to accommodate patients at his Consulting Rooms, No. 10l
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, so that they can be under his personal supervision. Patients, however, can
also be treated at their own homes. , ~ , . , f
Dr. Perry invites the fullest investigation into his qualifications, and would advise persons before
consulting any advertising practitioner to satisfy themselves he is a legally qualified medical man.
Send for Dr. Perry’s Medical Work on Nervous Complaints—FßEE.
ADDRESS Dr. 3MC. PERRY, M.1Ft.0.5.,
151 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mention this Paper when Wriliny.
Consultation Hours; From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. DAILY, and from 7 to 9 p.m. on TUESDAY
and SATURDAY EVENINGS.
“ Tales oftne Convict System.”
OPULAR WATCHES AT POPULAR
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an enviable reputa-
tion as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and IN
EXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
SERIES ‘ E,’ the old long-winding Pioneer.
SERIES ‘J’ (for Gents) and ‘L’ (for Ladies),
the time-tried short-winding Wonders, are still to
be obtained at popular prices within the means of
SERIES ‘K, 5 THE NEW GENTLEMEN’S
WATERBURY, a splendid watch fitted with all
the most modern improvements. Prices—Nickel,
305., Sterling Silver 455., Rolled Gold 675. fid.
SERIES ‘N,’ THE NEW LADIES’ WATER-
BURY, a perfect little Gem. Prices—Nickel
255., Sterling Silver 405,, Rolled Gold 555.
Mr. G. Evans, watchmaker, Howick-street,
Bathurst, writes under date 15th. June, 1892 : “I
have carefully examined the Waterbury Watches,
and find them splendidly finished, especially the
Gold-cased Series ‘K’; and I am of the opinion
that they are the grandest watches made in the
world for the money. I always wear one of the
Gold Series ‘K,’ and it keeps the very best of
time. ”
Waterbury Watch Co.’s
Repair Depot,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney.
PRICES!
all.
Note the Address.
All in search of health
should use Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Appli-
ances. Dr. SCOTT’S Electric Belts and Corsets
are universally approved by leading physicians as
the best, safest, and most effectual remedy for
Spinal Complaints, Incipient Consumption,
Diarrhoea, Pleurisy, Tumors, Asthma, Bronchitis,
Epilepsy, Lumbago, Debility, Paralysis, Loss of
Voice, Nervousness, Indigestion, Palpitation, etc.,
and have cured some of the most obstinate and
distressing cases after all other remedies (so called)
have failed. They are constructed on scientific
principles, imparting an exhilarating, health-
giving current to the whole system without shock.
Owing to the great success and enormous repu-
tation gained by Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric
Appliances since their introduction (now many
years ago), they have, like all other good things,
been largely imitated by numerous parasitical
charlatans. ' Illustrated Circular and Price List
of Dr. Scott’s Genuine Electric Appliances sent
post free to any address on application to
PALL MALL ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION,
5G Margaret Street, Sydney.
The Swing.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
the west coast of Maoriland, the country
■" 11 forest. The trees are tall and fine and
18 • d and numerous long, rope-like vines cling
Val 'nanv of them. The boys are very fond of
tO -"o-mcr upon these, Nature’s ropes, and this
sW " Pi shy was strong in our district.
1 T a tall pine on the crest of a ridge, we direct
on r attention. A lovely vine made a perfect
0 The miners had worked the ground right
the spot where the soil met the Old-Man
U P f t he top of the hill. The slope was thus
t rifio a consequence, when you were out in
VI air the deepening distance was wont to send
1111 ■[ c l ’ eX iilting thrill of danger and freedom and
'Vehement through one’s veins. It is astonishing
, tenacious man becomes when he wants to.
This is perhaps the reason why millionaires hang
on so desperately.
One evening three or four lads were there. One
ized the rope, between hands and legs, and
swim" far out over the gully. If the vine had
loosened then, he would have been fired into
boundless space. As it was, he was returning
f fly at full speed. As his foot touched the
Vrth the rope, half-way up, struck with some
newer against an old, withered limb, and broke it
short off. It fell point downwards, right on the
child’s fair head.
We carried him to his mother. The blood was
flowing from mouth and ears and eyes and nose.
Shortly after midnight the poor boy died, without
regaining consciousness.
We did not go to the funeral. We considered
that our presence on such an occasion would only
increase our despair. Neither did we send an
empty carriage. More, we sat upon a large stump
and swore only to go to the funerals of our
enemies. If this principle wereg'enerally adopted
how large would be the attendance at the grave of
some statesmen when they shunt off ! Methinks
Victor Hugo, with his millions of workmen,
w, ul Ibe distanced. And" the variety would be
ch r ning. Six at the funeral—only six enemies !
-Polyi-e.
IT WAS TOO CHEAP.
A good story is told of a physician, who, on
meeting a patient, put the question to him,
“Well, how did the prescription work?” “Oh, ’
replied the erstwhile invalid, “it was a complete
disappointment.” “Indeed; how is that?’
queried the puzzled medico. “ Well, it cost me
seven and sixpence to have it made up by the
chemist, and here I am better after taking a
couple of doses; all that money has gone for
nothing.” This incident has its ludicrous side,
although after all it is but another verification of
the truth of the proverb that “That which is easily
gained is little valued.” It is a remarkable fact
that some people are so constituted that they can-
not bring themselves to believe that under proper
conditions there is nothing antagonistic between
cheapness combined with simplicity and genuine
merit. The fallacy of concluding, without other
sufficient reason, that because an article is cheap
it must necessarily be proportionately “nasty”
and of small worth, is principally shared by the
ladies, although it is a characteristic of some of
the sterner sex as well. Especially is this the case
with persons afflicted by accident or disease.
They somehow get the notion into their heads
that their greatest safety rests in retaining the
services of a surgeon or a so-called specialist (who
as likely as not will consult his own pocket in not
effecting too speedy a cure), and will scout with
derision the idea of a simple natural remedy being
able to effect any good. To a large extent the
common prejudice against anything that bears the
name of a patent medicine is responsible for this ;
the very important fact being overlooked that
there are patent medicines and patent medicines.
“By their fruits ye shall know them ;” that is
the only legitimate test. The good fame and
known value, for instance, of that greatest of all
household remedies, St. Jacobs Oil, has now
become so widespread and generally recognised in
every clime and country under the sun that it has
in the case of many thousands come to be regarded
with even greater trust than the family physician.
Indeed, in not a few instances, where the best
efforts of the latter functionary resulted in failure,
St. Jacobs Oil has come to the rescue and raised
the patient, crippled and racked with pain, from
a bed of suffering from whiph formerly there
seemed no escape short of death itself.


During August last, the Boiven Railway
(Q-), earned a gross total of <£l7 19s. 7d. What
price old iron ?
A writer in Longman’s depicts a lepe r
island in North Australia somewhere. The firs*'
inhabitant was an Englishman who lived alone
till “Providence gave him for companionship
another victim of the same fell distemper, a
Chinaman coolie.’’ He has it all upside-down
though. It was Providence who gave the China-
man coolie the Englishman for companionship.
This is the query per-
What Is petually on your little
boy’s lips. And he is
It For? no worse than the big-
ger, older, balder-head-
ed boys. Life is an interrogation
point. “What is it for?” we con-
tinually cry from the cradle to the
grave. So with this little introduc-
tory sermon we turn and ask: “What
is August Fuower for ?’ ’ As easily
answered as asked : It is for Dys-
pepsia. It is a special remedy for
the Stomach and Liver. Nothing
more than this; but this brimful.
We believe August Flower cures
DyspepsiaT We know it will. We
have reasons for knowing it. Twenty
years ago it started in a small country
town. To-day it has an honored
place in every city and country store,
possesses one of the largest manu-
facturing plants in the country and
sells every where. Why is this? The
reason is as simple as a child’s
thought. It is honest, does one
thing, and does it right along—it
cures Dyspepsia. ®
G. G. GREEN, Sole Man’fr,Woodbury,NJ.
BRIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
inelliok Designs. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Boohs, containing upwards of 700
Designs, bound in One Volume, post free, Is. Od .
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
8326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
JJ ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING!
Until Further Notice,
The LONDON GAIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
in
“ Faust Up to Date.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
Q.ARRICK THEATRE.
Mr. J. F. Scholer .... Lessee.
MONDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 19,
Grand Monster Matinee Performance
for the
Benefit of the Veteran Actor,
Charles H. Burford.
IHs Last Appearance on any Stage.
Under the distinguished patronage of His Excellency the
Governor, the Members of the Ministry, His Worship the
Mayor and Aldermen of Sydney.
Promoted by a Powerful Committee of Influential
Gentlemen, including Sydney Burdekin, Esq., M.L.A.,
J. H. Want, Esq., Q.C., M.L.A., James Toohey, Esq.,
M.L.A., R. H. Levien, Esq., M.L.A., Colonel Macdonald,
Dr. A. Burne, Dr. W. Turner Halstead, Dr. Gvvynne
Hughes, Alderman Rainfond, D. O’Connor, Esq., M.L.C.,
J. D. Young, Esq., M.L.C., Hon. VV. Trickett, M.L.C.,
Critchett Walker, Esq., C.M.G., Alfred Bennett, Esq.
Messrs. H. SHINE and G. WALTON
In a New Extravaganza.
The Incomparable Alhambra Minstrel Company
Will appear in a Unique First Part.
(By permission of Mr. Frank Smith).
Signor RICCARDI, Mr. E. FARLEY, Dr. A. BURNE,
Alderman RAINFORD, Miss EDWARDE DEANE, Miss
ALICE MAY.
Mr. C, HUENERBEIN, the Celebrated Pianist.
A Distinguished Lady Amateur as PORTIA,
Mr. C. 11. BURFORD as SII YLO C K
(his last appearance on any stage),
R. H. LEVIEN, Esq., M.L. A., as NICODEMUS NOBBS,
in the Screaming Comedietta,
“ TURN HIM OUT.”
Supported by Mr. JOE TOLANO, Miss ALICE MAY,
and Full Caste.
The Whole Performance under the Stage Management of
Alderman J. H. RAINFORD.
Doors open at 1 o’clock p.m. Curtain rises at 1.45, sharp.
A. BURNE\
Jas HUNT /
Hon. Treas,
GWYNE HUGHES
R. W. RICHARDS
D. A. DRAYTON
\ lion.
j Secs.
BOX PLAN NOW OPEN AT NICHOLSON’S.
gT. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE'
ENORMOUS SUCCESS OP
Mr> Harry Hickards
—AND lIIS
NEW * ENGLISH * COMEDY * COMPANY
Consisting of the following eminent Artists :
Katherine Vincini, Lilia VVilde, Lilia Roze, Annie Adney,
Laura Honey, Noni Rickards, Kate Rickards, Messrs."
Beattie and Bentley, Robert Bolder, Albert Lucas,
Henry Burton and Harry Rckards.
IWT° Mr. RICKARDS begs to state, while in England, he
engaged the following accomplishedartists:—Miss MARIE
LOFT US, Miss GEORG IE WRIGHT, Messrs. BROWN,
NEW LAND and LECLERQ for an Australian tour. Due
nolice will be given of their appearance.
Mr. R. begs also to state he holds the SOLE RIGHT of
representation in Australia of all the songs sung by Albert
Chevalier, Arthur Coombes, Dan. Leno, Charles Godfrey,
Kate Lawrence and Marie Lloyd.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
(JIHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies" for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
lour through South Africa, either on shares, or "such
terms as may he arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
All Railway Travelling. YtH
Apply for particulars, cable address—OPEßA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O li
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
Amusements.
£}. ARR I C K THEA T R j
BRILLIANT SUCCESS ! BRILLIANT SI)C(TMa
and !
ENT 11US1ASTI0 RECEPTION
EMERSON dc WOOn-o
-ALABAMA— 23
TVC lUS T EEL S.
EVERY EVENING at, 8-.
Prices—is-, Bs, 2s, and Is. Early door r,' .
Box Plan at Nicholsons. ’ txtra -
Albert’S
Vi. lins,
:’s Easy Time-payment Svsw
:, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 rl ,® 4
muivc, Accordeons, 12s. 6d. 15 S 91 ** es t
Od., 335. (id., 425., and 455. Concertinas’’in 3 ®'
15s. od., steel reeds, Sis., ai.d
machine head, £2 10s., £4 IQs-. ai ,’ f i ~r
Banjos. 355., £2 165., £3 155., £4 10s. and £ ?*•
Mandolines, 355-., Bos., 755., 055., and *■-'if* -
o Zithers, 355., 655., 755., and £5 ss.
£2 10s., £3 155., exesllent quality, £5 ss, and n-? , 6 .,' 8 ’
TERMS:—Any of the above instnnucntscan be ,os '
with ONE shilling (or more) deposit, and the
to be paid off by weekly instalments at no less than rive
shilling per week on each instrument, or five ne,- U ’ N
will be allowed for cash. J. ALBERT & SON mo
street. Cheapest Music Warehouse in Australia in""’
trated catalogues and particulars posted FREE. ur ‘
Sporting;
6 DON’TS.
ONTgo to a racecourse
ONT bet on the races
ONT own a racehorse
ONT be a breeder
ONT be a trainer
ONT be a jockey
Without having in your Pocket a Copy o!
J. J. MILLER’S Sporting Pamphlet.
Price Is. Ask your Newsdealer for it.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
CAULFIELD C.-Oct. 15.
At 5 each. (50,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 5000; Second, 1250; Third, 1000; S (d' 1030 •
N S (d), 1150 ; 10 at 100, 1000 ; 10 at 50, 500 ; 10 at 2u’
200 ; 50 at 10, 500 ; 50 at 5, 250 ; 100 consolations at 2 ;
360 consolations at 1.
MELBOURNE C—Nov. 1.
At 5 each. (100,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10,000: Second, 2500; Third, 1500; S(d\ 2000 -
N S (d), 2500 ;20 at 100, 2000 ; 20 at 50, 1000; 20 at 20,’
400 ; 100 at 10, 1000 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 consolations at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
State amount enclosed; and addressed envelopes willi
application—one for receipt and the other for result.
Register. Address; GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-
street, Sydney, N.S.W. For full particulars send for oiu
printed circulars.
TATTERSALL’S
CAULFIELD CUP.
Run at Caulfield, in October, 1892.
50,000 <il 10 50,000
MELBOURNE CUP.
Run at Flemington, November 1,1892.
100,000 at 20 100,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
IW Address—” TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Taltersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GALA’S MONSTER CONSULTATIONS.
MODE OF DR AAV INO FOR 100,000 TICKETS
Five barrels are placed on a revolving cylinder. In each barrel ten marbles are placed, numbered
oto 9. A person stationed in front of each barrel simultaneously draws a marble, which is shown to the
scrutineers. The numbers in the barrels represent as under, and in the same order
Ist barrel. 2nd barrel. 3rd barrel. 4th barrel. sth barrel
Tens of
Thousands
Thousands.
fd
Tens.
Units.
To show that the low numbers have exactly the same chance as the high ones, take, for example,
Ticket numbered 7. From the first barrel a 0 must be picked, from the second a 0, from the third aO,
from the fourth aO, and from the fifth a 7. At the first glance it might appear that the four O’s have a
less chance of being drawn than any other number, say 78,088, but this is not so, as to pick this number
you must draw from the first barrel a 7, from the second an 8, from the third a 0, from the fourth an 8.
and from the fifth an 8.
There being but ten marbles in each barrel, marked 0 to !), the chances are just as mud: that you will
pick an oasa 7 or any other number, as the proportion against any individual number is 9to 1. This
rule applies to each barrel. When the horses are being drawn for, a separate barrel is added. The small
number ot marbles in each barrel permits them to be thoroughly and easily shaken up, which cannot be
done when 100,00 Q marbles are together. • ■ -
The systemprevents any possible chance of fraud and collusion, as ten marbles can be easily seen and
counted by all present. It is distinctly understood that should a number be drawn more than once for
the same prize the number can only l.e counted once, but each ticket, has one chance in every prize. The
ticket numbered 100,000 is not issued, but is replaced by a ticket numbered 0.
When a drawing of less than 100,000 takes place the marbles in the first barrel are proportionately
.tduced in number The drawing takes place in the presence ot the press and of subscribers.
NOW OPEN -CAULFIELD CUP, 50,000 at 5/-, MELBOURNE CUP, 100,000 at 6/*
Address!—“GALA. 1 ’ c.o. H. Alexander, 64 Oxford Street, Sydney.
BEDE.
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER.
OVER 20 YEARS before tite PUBLIC op NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOUTH WALES
MELBOURNE CTJP.
20 Each, —-20,000—20 Each n
FIRST, 8000; SECOND, 2000; THIRD, 1000; S. (divided), 1500; N.S. (divided), 2000 ; 5 fit 100 each, 500; SO »• -
each, 1500 ;75at 20 each, 1500 ; 200 at 10 each, 2000. 310—extra—310.
MELBOURNE CUP.
XO Each~2s,OQO —XO Each
FIRST, 5000; SECOND, 1500 ; THIRD, 1000 ; S. (divided), 1000 ; N.S. (divided), 1000; 20 at 50 each, 1000 i2a «■ -
each, 500 ; 100 at 10 each, U:00 ; 100 at 5 each, 500. 215-extra - 245. .
Be sure and register your letters and lake care of the P.O. receipt till you receive oUr reply. Thank ih, .
for past patronage and trusting for continuance of your support. Programmes Sent on Application.
Address —“ ADAM BEl)E,’' Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Sydney. ...
TATTERS ALL’S MELBOURNE CUT.
□ETXJ3XT ja>t
100,000 at 20 100,000
FLEMUSTG-TOIM, Ist NOVEMBER,
UK SITJIK AND ItKtiISTKK YOU: I.KITKISS. AND TAKK (AIM - , ul'
TDK r*.u. lIKCKIIT Til.l- Vol DKT Oil! ItKI’I.V.
1892.
111. I # I'M I*l.l IM I* I*l.l I. I . V JV/ V<r W | , 4 ■ |
TATTERS ALL,” cjuv of (Ikdiiok Adams, Tati kiisali.s Horn., SVDM'A, s *
50,000 at io ■ 50,000
7 .. „inr VS
"Tattersall’s” Sweeps.
(BY A SUBSCBIBER.)
Tattersall” issued his first sweep— looo sub-
scribers at £1 each—on the Melbourne Cup of 1878. Since
then the business has grown so prodigiously that four
sweeps were issued on last year’s Melbourne Cup—viz., a
100,000 sweep at £1 per ticket, two 50,000 sweeps at 10s.,
and a fourth sweep at 10s., which closed with 36,000 sub-
scribers. In all 236,000 subscribers, representing a sum of
£168,000 ! The largest syndicate application was for 600
£1 tickets ; over 2000 applications came in one morning’s
mail. Since October, 1890, over £300,000 have been paid
to prize-winners for placed horses alone ! “ Tattersall’s ”
commission is 10 per cent, of the total. Get a world-wide
reputation for honesty and business capacity and start as
a sweep-promoter.
“ Tattersall’s ” expenses are tremendous, but his is a
cash concern. Unclaimed money is paid to those entitled
to it. Thus, should a prize fall to a dead man, it is
claimable by and will be paid to the heir-at-law. It is
estimated that “ Tattersall’s ” immense business brings
a revenue of £lB,OOO per annum to Sydney General Post-
olfice.
* * *
“ Tatt.” is just one man. Any subscriber who
can produce a decent reference may arrange to meet him,
and may investigate their joint business concerns, and
may attend a prize-drawing. Of course, no one sub-
scriber can get information about any other—the business
is a confidential one. “Tatt.” tells us that, notwith-
standing all assertions to the contrary, he (unless
authorised in writing to do so) never informs a horse-
owner or anyone else Of the drawer*of a horse in a sweep
until after the race. He is the common enemy of the
Australasian bookmakers, and had his reputation a flaw
they would have extinguished him long since. He hasn’t
drawn a prize in his own sweeps, and only once has an em-
ployb of his done so—for £lOO, some three years ago.
When authorised by a horse-drawer to hedge, or to lay a
horse-owner money to nothing, “Tattersall ” does so. In
the last Melbourne Cup, Sir William was the sole horse so
laid against. Most horse-owners accept the offer, but Mr.
Donald Wallace, Carbine’s owner, always curtly refused :
“ I run Carbine and all my horses to win.”
* * *
Over eight-tenths of Tattersall’s business is done
with people outside N.S.W. Victoria, Maoriiand, Queens-
land head the list. Rut there are numerous clients in
S. A., W.A., the United Kingdom (particularly in London,
Liverpool and Manchester), in South Africa, China, India,
Japan, Straits Settlements, New Caledonia, the South Sea
Islands, in British Columbia and San Francisco ; and
although State lotteries are common enough on the con-
tinent of Europe, there are numbers of German, French
and Italian patrons. John L. Toole, the actor, is a con-
stant English customer.
Christians, Heathens, Pagans, Jews, Buddhists, Mahom-
medans—people of all creeds and colours subscribe.
Not long ago a Sydney Presbyterian clergyman (under
a pseudonym) drew a £lOOO prize. “Scottish, ye ken.”
Tommy, a Japanese, of Thursday Island, drew £22,500
for first horse in the big Melbourne Cup Sweep of 1890.
Tuck Guy, of Toowoomba (Q.), drew first horse (£1800) in
the March Handicap of ’9l; Ah Kong (Stanth'orpe, Q.)
drew second horse (£2430) in the Carrington Stakes this
year. Just Chinamen’s luck ! Sixteen prizes, including
a first, second and third horse,’ have gone to the town of
Bingera, N.S.W., within the last four years. Mr. W.
Rider, of Grafton, N.S.W., drew second horse (£2700) in
the Melbourne Cup of ’9l, and first horse (1048) in the
Canterbury Handicap of January last. Mr. J. Preacher,
East Richmond, Vic., drew first horse (£27,000) in the big
Melbourne Cup Sweep of ’9l. Mr. R. Garlick, Auckland,
N.Z., drew first horse (£8100) in the Carrington Stakes last
January.
* # •
Eight ladies each drew a placed horse last year.
One lady, whose husband forbade her to invest, and
refused to give her 10s. to do so, defied hubby, borrowed
a half-sov. from a sympathetic neighbour, and raked in a
prize of several thousands. Disobedient wife ! One
widow, who won a big prize, wrote thus—“l say thanks
to Tattersall. Gentlemen, the money has come to the
bank. Bless the good horse 1 I was a poor widow woman
with a boy and two girls. I am very thankful.” A Sydney
shoeblack drew first horse (£900) in the sweep on the
Warwick Farm August Handicap, run on Saturdav, 13th
ult.
# • *
Tattersall advertises in all the leading Austra-
lasian newspapers, and a typographical error in Tim
Bulletin advt. of the Melbourne Cup sweeps of ’9l
afforded a peculiarly striking criterion of the circulation
of this journal—especially when it is remembered that
notone-fifth of Tattersall’s business is done with N.S.W.
The 100,000 sweep at £1 per ticket was wrongly advc rtised
in Tub Bulletin as a 100,000 sweep at 10s. per ticket.
Thousands of applications for 10s. tickets in the 100,000
sweep came from all parts of Australia and Maoriiand.
Some incorrect newspaper advt. was manifestly respon-
sible, and, accordingly, the advertising columns of all the
leading Australasian papers were carefully scrutinised.
Titff Bulletin was the sole delinquent.
• * •
Tattersall files and keeps all correspondence.
The ticket-books are on the plan of a cheque-book. He
keeps the butt of every ticket, issued ; on the butt is
recorded the name of the ticket-holder and the ledger
reference. Thus, should a prize-winner lose his ticket his
identity could be proved by his own correspondence and
Tattersall’s records, and the prize would be paid him.
Tatt’s business-system is so simple, and straight, and
complete, that, up to date, no mistake has been debited
against him. Every result-letter despatched tc a patron
has a sign or a number on some part of the envelope. The
sign or the number denotes the race—for instance, this
year’s Mel. Cup sign is a tick, V. The position of the
sign or the number identifies the clerk who despatched
the letter. Foimerly initial letters were used—M.C. for
Mel. Cup ; N.H. for Newmarket Handicap. This arrange-
ment was discarded, for, on one occasion, a disappointed
subscriber to a Newmarket Handicap, wrote, after learn-
ing the result of the drawing, as follows: “You— !
I knew I had no horse when I got my tickets. There was
N.H. standing for No Horse on the envelope they came
in.” Any subscriber may apply for and obtain any un-
issued number in a sweep.” What scope for diviners,
dreamers, inspirationalists, spiritualists, clairvoyants’
witches and wizards ! Often such a letter as this is re-
ceived ; “I want this number very, very, very particular ;
if not in this sweep then in the next.”
* * *
What queer correspondents Tattersall must
have I One woman wrote to this effect: “This is the last
half soV. I have and I really need it to buy bread.” The
money was returned to her—with a ticker., which, how-
ever, brought her no luck. Another woman asked for
£300: "it is a flea-bite to you but a fortune to me.”
Occasionally an imbecile, who would be a rogue, writes
thus; “I forward you money for tickets. Give me a
prize ticket, I’ll refund half and keep mum.” Such an
applicant has his money returned him, with a request to
cease patronage.
* * #
Correspondents write on all subjects either
directly or indirectly connected with racing. Frequent
enquiries are made concerning missing friends, sons,
brothers, fathers, husbands, wives, sisters, daughters,
mothers, and uncles, cousins, aunts, and sweethearts’
who attended any Melbourne Cup or other meeting, or
who held a ticket in a consultation a year or ten years
ago. Doubtless Tattersall has sufficient documentary
evidence to prove that a great many people regard him
ns omniscient and omnipresent. He does his best for all
enquiries. This is oneof the many secrets of his popularity.
« * *
Here is the trick of a “smarty.” He holds ticket
13556 ; 13506 is a winning number. He erases the second
5 on his ticket, substitutes a 0, and sends in the doctored
ticket for the prize. Did he hold the altered ticket up to
the light, he’d burn it rather than send It in. But wily
scoundrels have a subtler scheme for “ getting at” Tatter-
tall and his patrons. Fac-siniiles of Tattersall’s circulars
and pmniphlets are printed and then distributed through-
out Australasia and America, and the tJnitcd Kingdom.
The sole difference between the sham and the real appears
in the name ain't address. Instead of
“ TATTERSALIi,”
Care of George Adams (Owner), Tattersall’s Hotel and
Club, Pitt-street, Sydney,
Impostors have put
GEO. WM. ADAMS,
No. C Tattersall’s Chambers, Hunter-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Or, Tattersall, care of G. Adams, Box —, G.P.0., Sydney.
Or, Tattersall, care of J. Adams, Box —, G.P.0., Sydney.
During the last three years, five or six such impostors
have traded on “ Tattersall’s ” good name. The Melbourne
Cup is run on the first Tuesday in November, and every
year, for one, two, even four, months before that date,
the impostors are busy.
* * *
As previously stated, any subscriber may attend
a drawing. Numerically Taltersall’s sweeps are five—
-100,000, 50,000,-25,000, 10,000, and 5,000. He has five cor-
responding barrels containing numbered wooden marbles;
that is one barrel containing 100,000 numbered marbles, a
second containing 50,000, and so on. The barrels are
fitted with an internal contrivance which, in the process
of revolution, scatters the marbles in all directions, and
thus thoroughly mixes them. Tattersall merely super-
vises the drawing. The cash prizes are drawn first. Any
subscriber may revolve the number-barrel to his own satis-
faction ; any volunteer may draw the marbles. The
drawer is so placed that he cannot see into the
barrel. The barrel-door is always opened by
the press representatives. The prize numbers are
always Checked by the pressnien and the sub-
scribers present. The pressmen take their list,
Tattersall his, Next, TattersalTs list is checked and
Signed by the pressmen and subscribers. When the draw-
ing for Cash prizes is finished, the marbles are returned to
the barrel and it is locked. Now comes the drawing for
horses. Marbles bearing the horses’ names are first
arranged 6n a tray for inspection, and put into a small
barrel which is then locked. The barrels are placed at
either end of a long table, and any subscriber may revolve
either barrel or take the office of drawer at either. The
pressmen unlock the barrel-doors, and the drawers draw
simultaneously; one Calls the number, the other the
horse. The pressmen and subscribers check both. The
pressmen enter the result on their lists. TattersalTs list
is checked and signed by the pressmen and subscribers as
before. Anyone may take a list. When a sweep, say, of
50,000 closes with 40,000 subscribers, any number over
40,000, drawn, counts, of course, as a blank or no draw.
After the drawing is completed, anyone may examine the
barrels and count and sort the marbles. For this job, a
contractor would be supplied with trays, each honey-
combed for 100 marbles, and numbered consecutively in
hundreds from Ito 100,000. Thus is worked Australia’s
mammoth and world-famous sweep.


-m
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Is everyth 6l6 recommended as the best rem-
edy for the cure of scrofula, scrofulous and
cancerous humors, chronic catarrh, eczema,
boils, pimples, sores, and all disorders origina-
ting in impure blood. It neutralizes and elimi-
nates the acids that cause rheumatism, gout,
and dropsy. It regulates the liver and kidneys,
gives tone to the stomach, increases the ance-
tite, aids digestion,
Cures Dyspepsia,
and makes the weak strong. No other blood
purifier is composed of such carefully selected,
highly concentrated, and skilfully united in-
gredients. For nearly half a century this prep-
aration has, in both hemispheres, been the
standard tonic and strengthening medicine. It
is universally approved by the medical profes-
sion, and benefits the enfeebled system at all
seasons of the year.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Co , Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A
Sold by all Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
Cures others, will cure you
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere-
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
jWm Lancet
St. John’s Works, London W.C.
ANDREW USHER & CO.'S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
rider power to take proceedings against any
3rson infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
o.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under :
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VATTED GLENLIVET WHUKY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve."
BLAKE «V KICK ALL, Solicitors,
120 WILLIAM-ST., Melß.
J\ Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S P®*
NOURISHING. HH I | \JF
DELICIOUS. i | L f\ ,
For INFANTS. For INVALIDS.
For THE AGED. ! For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combired
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked, <
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
■WA fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, iBji.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
I" valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Mattel Milk will.keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HIU, LONDON, E.C.
Maiglockchen
m liijifMfJ
Sfousuv LOHSf
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'ferfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
We’d better buy 6NUN Darlings.
GNUN Darlings draw free and burn even.
Never be without aGNUN Darling.
At Bondi you can buy G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
Use Batho’S Baking Powder.
Pure Havana fillets —Gr NUN Uarlings*
Dibbs cables t “ Send me box of GNUN
Darlings."
a: ;
G- N tJ N Darlings burn a snow-white ash.
Premier Dibbs owes much of his success to
G N U N Darlings.
—THE-
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LMTD.
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head. Office: London, B.C.
Branches in Australia : MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and ROCKHAMPTON.
BROKERS IN WOOL, GRAIN, TALLOW, HIDES, SKINS, LEATHER, ETC.
General Manager in Australia . .. DAVID ELDER.
Luxury for the million, G N U N Darlings,
The recent Victorian Agricultural Show
was the best on record. Good old country, as
against your Daviestowns and Munrovilles.
At Darlinghurst you can buy GN U N
Darlings.
“I saw a woman hanging by the hair of
her head, and her brains bubbled. 1 saw a woman
hanging by her tongue, and the boiling water of
hell was being poured down her gullet. . . .
From another woman the flesh was being cut off
both before and behind with fiery scissors;
another ate with burning hands her own bowels.
. • . as to another, fire issued from her mouth,
what time angels beat her head and body with
battle-axes red hot.” —Extract from a religious
publication dealing tvith the hereafter.
G N U N Darlings. G N U N Darlings.
Darlings.
The Argus is always quoting Hancock’s
“all things are possible in a Democracy” as a
highly original utterance. Oliver Wendell
Holmes, however, got a long start of Johnny in
the aphorism, which is in the “Autocrat of the
Breakfast Table,” Breakfast No. 5. The Autocrat
says :
As the “O” revealed Giotto —as the one word “ moi ”
betrayed the Stratford-atte-Bowe-taught Anglais—so all
a man’s antecedents and possibilities are summed up in a
single utterance which gives at once the gauge of his
education and his mental organisation. “Possibilities,
sir?” said the dhinity student; “Can a man who says
Haow? arrive at distinction?” “Sir,” I replied, “In a
Republic all things are possible.”
Darlings GNU N—cost 3d. only.
THE GREAT SMOKE OE THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
"BUDS,” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents; MCCARTHY «fic CO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
McCarthy & CO., Tobacco Mercliauts,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
FOR INFANTS* CHILDREN & INVALIDS*
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ I am pleased to say that when every form of diet failed we were enabled
to give ‘ Bknqer’s Food and to see our Children gain rapidly and permanently.’
THE MOST DELICIOUS,
NUTRITIVE & DIGESTIBLE.
Retail in Tins Is. 6d., 2s. Gd., ss. and 10s., of
Chemists , &c.. Everywhere.
Mottershead & Co. (S. Paine & F. B. Benger) 7 Exchange
Street, and Otter Works, Manchester, England.
Wholesale— Sydney ; ELLIOTT BROS.
f
SAUCE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
c^e.
bears the Signature, thus
Os
Ask for Lea & rEimivs’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., SO.J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World. *
Strings indeed ttiaTSf— ~
A
'/«l
should
make everything so bright-, but
"A needle clothes others,and is ihselj:
naked’.’Try itin your next house-cleaning
What folly it would be to cut grass with a pair of scissors! Yet peo-
ple do equally silly things every day. Modern progress has grown up
from the hooked sickle to the swinging scythe and thence to the lawn
mower. So don’t use scissors!
But do you use SAPOLIO ? If you don’t you are as much behind the
age as if you cut grass with a dinner knife. Once there were no soaps.
Then one soap served all purposes. Now the sensible folks use one soap
in the toilet, another in the tub, one soap in the stables, and SAPOLIO
tor all scouring and house-cleaning.
SOLD BY GROCERS. CHEMISTS. AND IRONMONGERS.
Drink.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Drunk, as usual ! —’ere Jemima,
Ketch ’im by the legs ;
Let’s be off before the p’lioeman
Twigs us. Stir yer pegs 1”
That’s the Way they treats the drunkard
When they’ve drawed ’is blood
Chucks ’im through the door and leaves ’im
Sprawlin’ in the mud !
What care they for wife and child’ert
Starvin, like enough ;
Achin’ hearts and bitter mis’ry ?
Curse their blasted stuff !
Here they lift him up between them—
Work for women meet!—
Lift him up and slowly stagger
Down the dirty street.
“ Father, but I’m orful tired,
Can’t you walk it now ?”
Then the answer, short and savage—
“ ’Old yer blinded row !”
Then the creaking door that opens
Shows a squalid room—
Two small children in the background—
Shuts and all is gloom.
Daylight, breaking o’er the city,
Strikes a dusty pane ;
Strikes a sleeping face, forever
Stamped with stamp of Cain.
Two small children in the corner
Cower and sob and stare ;
Stare at something lying loosely
Near a broken chair.
“ Father done it!” so they whisper,
Pointing to the place
Where, beyond all recognition,
Lies a battered face —
Face whereon the hand of murder
Hath large letters writ—
Done to death by him who sleeps now
In his drunken fit.
“ Father dune it.” He must suffer ;
“ Life fur life,” men say :
As in ages past they said it,
So they say to-day !
W.A.A.
Upper Derwent, Tasmania.
Resurgemus.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Although your smile is ever swift for me,
Your words are kind, your actions fond and free,
I know they lack what your true love would see.
Could / but that love he !
Alas ! your thoughts forever inward turn
To where, within your steadfast heart, there burn
The embers of a love for which yo i yearn
With life-long constancy.
But I have not lost hope of triumph yet
Although long years have flown since first we met,
In spite of knowing that our ways are set
With much austerity.
For I believe that when this life is past,
And in another sphere our lots are cast,
Our souls shall meet and there unite at last
For all eternity.
M.T.
Sydney Evening News, speaking of a
recent portrait of Sir Henry Parkes, by a local
artist, says: “The expression of the whole face
has been caught in a peculiarly happy way.” The
Bulletin presumes the picture was finished before
the news of Dibbs’ knighthood and the arrival of
the latest little ’Enry,
The glad news comes from Scotland that
the Assembly of the grand, old, cast-iron Free
Church has decided, by a large majority, to
“ relax ” some of the more hide-bound doctrines of
its creed. It appears from the report that the
Church is divided between the “ auld lichts,” who
consider that anyone who smiles after sunset on
Saturday will be eternally lost, and the “new
lichts” who think that a “professing believer”
may even look comparatively happy on Sunday
without serious danger of being struck by light-
ning, provided he repents immediately afterwards.
Scotland, in the days when the present writer
knew it, seemed to consist chiefly of “auld
lichts.” One of his earliest recollections is about
a hideous row between two old women, one of
whom had sold a hen to the other for half-a-crown
on Friday and called round on Saturday for the
money, whereupon the other old woman refused
to pay because the next day was Sunday, and told
her creditor that she “ wunnered ” she didn’t fall
down dead at the front gate.
The Duchess of Albany (hats off!) recently
paid a visit of inspection to a Women’s Home in
one of the London suburbs. The home in question
is a place where “fallen sisters ” are benevolently
taken in, and worked to death from early dawn
till dark at washing, ironing and mangling, with
no wages, and are visited and inspected by hard-
faced gorgons in spectacles, who lecture them off
and on at all hours till they are nearly dead.
Those who don’t fall down exhausted at the
mangle, or run away to escape the slavery and
the lecturing, are finally hired as servants by
Christian females, who give them only half
the usual pay because they are “ fallen.” Mean-
while, the home does the washing at reduced rates,
and thus starves out the professional laundress.
The Duchess, as already mentioned (hats off as
hereinbefore alluded to) visited this place, and
seeing one wretched inmate near! perishing at
the mangle, “ her royal highness immediately
stepped forward, took the handle herself, and
finished the piece of work that was being done,”
thus giving the unhappy creature a minute and a
half in which to straighten her back. The society
paper adds that “it is needless to say this
spontaneous action of the Duchess was greatly
applauded.” Quite needless. “ Her Grace ” turned
that historic mangle for ninety seconds and the
fact is spread all over the world, and the other
woman grinds the horrid implement from dawn
till dark, day after day, and week after week, and
if she holds out and doesn’t “fall” again, and
isn’t talked to death by some pious visitor or
other, she may grind away till she drops at the
handle from sheer old age, and yet she isn’t
applauded—in fact, she is expected to be pro-
foundly grateful. This is a strange world.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) and his silky
Pomeranian dog, the of Lady Kintore, are
inseparable. The dog lies cuddled in his Honor's
lap whenever he drives around in his landau, is as
often as not carried under his arm when he walks,
it attends him on the judicial Bench, and —
whisper ! —lt is even alleged that it si
Extract from “ Facts Fossilised ” column
—original editorial notes ! —of Sydney Echo :
It is believed that Csesar landed in Britain on Sunday>
August 27, b.c. 55.
Please notice the caution of the statement. The
editor is evidently in doubt as to whether it is not
a libel.
Stanley, summed Up by his Oppolleht :
“This nigger-slaying, buccaneering Barnutn of
mongrel nationality.” Yob couldn’t put mUch
more in a short sentence than that.
The corpse of a queen who died about six
centuries ago has been disinterred in Sweden.
All that remained was an exceedingly small skull.
It is safe to tell the truth about queens who have
been dead 600 years.


Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe's Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
Wolfe's Schnapps— Soothing tod invigorating.
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
For Influenza, Colds oto., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Be a swell and smoke G N U N Darlings.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps
£ 1-order with large bottleof Wolfe's Schnapps,
Watches, Diamonds, Jewellery, Silver-plate.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT ZPZELOnyC THE maitupacturers to the public.
UNEQUALLED FOR VALUE, UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY, and at PRICES IN MANY INSTANCES NEARLY ONE-HALF THAT CHARGED ELSEWHERE.
£T IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED OUT BY "E*
STEWART DAWSON & CO
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent, of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.'s Wonderful Goods at Freetrade Prices!
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
WORLD FAMED
LIVERPOOL ENGLISH LEVERS.
50,000 TESTIMONIALS 50,000
From wearers in all parts of the world.
FREETRADE
PRICES.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
i?q S.—S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
3JO O LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
-PQ 1 AS. - -S. D. and GO'S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
3JO iU HUNTING LEVER; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£6 6s. Beware of imitations.
PA 1 AS.—S. D. and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH lIUNT-
v inQ LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection. Cheap
at £7.
pc i aS-S. D, and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
3JJ 1 U HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
pc a AS.— S. 35. vid CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENO-
*'3 1 u LISII HUNTING LEVER, extraordinary
value.
Pi' 1 AS-—S. 35. and CO.’S errand Three-quarter-plate
I U CentßS-eeconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER ;
thousands in wear ; without equal ; cheap at £lO.
pi a -S. D. and OO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
S/ LU. xhree-quartor plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER,
Breguet Spring, flneate Compensation Balance, as sold in
the best shops in Londt n from £l5 to £2O; seven years
guaranteed.
pi i -i aS.—S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
LI - J and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English. The best Sporting Watch in the
World. Matchless value.
rs.—S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
*- *3 WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £1 12s. Cd (Ladies’ and Gent’s).
-Pn 1 'S- D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
cVU Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable, and of guaranteed quality.
Worth £lO.
PO i AS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
cUO 1 anc j co.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Extra value.
PlO 1 0 s - £l2 10s -> £ l5 10s -. t 0 £25.—S. D. and
1 O iO CO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals at the
prices named.
FK AND Oc a -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
u cL/.lv. KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking. After a period of six months’ adjustment
these watches are sent to the Government Observatory
Test Office at Kew, London, where they undergo a six
weeks’ test in every position, heat and cold, after which a
certificate is issued stating the number of points taken.
Note that none of ours are allowed to pass under A 75, the
highest possible being AlOO. The B and C Classes are of
much less value. A 75 ensures a rate not exceeding five
seconds’ variation in one year.
Any watch in the above List sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee on receipt of remittance.
■STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches-birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART D AWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment and other designs a special variety. All at Free-
trade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’s Magnificent Assort-
ment of Ladies’ inexpensive 15 carat Gem Dress Rings, in
new designs, from 255. toCOs., affords the beat means for
selection at genuine Freetrade Prices ever placed before
the public. Our stock of 18 carat Wedding and Keeper
Rings is the largest and best value in Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presentsin solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets, Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entr6e Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style, Salad, Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON, and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
(id. per pair, ff and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long shaped Purses Porlemonnaics, Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen's
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full 'mo-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
WITH THE ADDITIONAL SPACE
At our disposal, we have now added the largest stock of
these to be found on the Australian continent, and we
ask every reader to compare ours with the prices you have
been paying. Notwithstanding the duty of 15 per cent,
recently put on by the Government, the following will be
found from 12J to 40 per cent. lower than Waltham
Watches have ever been sold in Sydney;—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance 2 12 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, J-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, ke\ less, 3 pairs extra jewels ~ 4 4 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance,
patent regulator 5 10 0
Ladies’Go’d Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 710 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat .. .. .. 12 10 0
Oent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 13 carat 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver cases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S GOLD ALBERTS.—Note.—The above
is our great speciality, and the variety, character and
value of our stock have no equal in the whole of Austra-
lasia. Our selection of appendages, consisting of Seals,
Lockets, Compasses, Charms, Freemasons’ accessories,
&c., should he seen by every intending buyer.
GENTLEMEN'S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets,
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition.
NOTE.— Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip-
tion by the best WORKMEN.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Watch and Jewellery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET and STRAND, SYDNEY ; Melbourne and Auckland.
A Miscalculation.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I used to laugh at him. He ivas a comical devil,
and no mistake, and good company, too—could
sing a song or tell a yarn around the camp-fire
with the best of them. N.B. —He didn’t tell this
yarn around the camp-fire.
Jack Silver and I had just boiled the billy, and
were squatting around the hot coals covered with
fish and johnny-cakes—the coals were—ready to
make a start, when he joined us. He came up,
remarked “ Good night,” set his nest of billies
down very carefully, threw his swag down, sat on
it, had a yarn and his tea, and before we turned-in
that night it was settled that he should travel with
us. Our boat was big enough for three, and as he
was a strapping man and seemed to fancy himself
a bit with the oars, we had no objection.
I’m sorry to say this man was a regular sun-
downer. Yes, actually boasted of it and showed
his proofs with pride. The proofs of a sundowner,
he said, were a nest of billies, suit of clothes on
the outside one, 8 straps around Matilda, 23
tucker-bags—he has a name for each one —and a
general knowledge of every boundary-rider within
984 miles of anywhere. One of the bags, the
“Emergency,” is only brought into requisition
when he sees the bump of generosity very largely
developed on the cook’s head. It is hardly worth
while saying that this is a very large bag and
isn’t often used. He said it came in handy in
very dry weather, though. But the sundowner, at
least the voluntary one, is a novelty. I don’t
care what anyone He is a curiosity to men
who have travelled the bush for years.
He could pull a boat though, and if you praised
him he would fairly make her jump out of the
water. He said if he only had a proper boat he
would make us see the backs of our heads turning
some of those sharp bends —had often done it. He
seemed to know every inch of the Murray. The
third day after he joined us he said we ought to
make the Great Northern Bend that day. I think
he said it was the Great Northern ; but, anyhow,
he said it was 12 miles round by the river, and
only half a mile across. We had been told there
was a very large bond in the river, but didn’t
know it was so large as tha*>. Sure enough, that
evening about four o’clock he told us to pull into
the bank where a large gum with some figures on
it hung over the water. “Well, lads,” he said,
“ this is the big bend. I know it by that tree
there. You fellows can go round with the boat,
and I’ll walk across. It's only half a mile through
the scrub there, and I’ll have tea ready and plenty
of wood for the night when you get there.” This
seemed a good idea, so we concluded that, as it
was such a short distance across, we would
leave all the tucker and swags. We planted
them in the scrub, and, after a lot of
growling, he at last consented to make
two trips and carry them over. As we pulled out
from the bank, he sung out, “Now, you chaps,
git a move on you ! You’ll soon do that twelve
mile down stream with an empty boat. I’ll back
a lame bull-ant to keep ahead of you for weeks,
cuttin’ off a bend now and then.”
We took turn about rowing and steering, and
when darkness settled in we began to keep a sharp
lookout on our left for a big fire. We didn’t see
it. Next morning we saw a man fishing, and he
told us there was a bend of that size soihewhero
on the river, but it was a long way down yet.
We never saw that sundowner again, but we
learned that he had sold all the things he couldn’t
carry—such as the gun, ’possum rugs, etc. —to
some teamsters who were camped at a pub. on the
main road, only half-a-mile from where he left us.
How he made that mistake, knowing the river so
well as he did, I never could figure out to this
day.
BOILING BILLY.
An enquiry in the “Missing Friends”
column of an English paper for a man named
Collins has unearthed a curious story of Queens-
land, as it was in the wild and larky past.
Collins, so the legend runs, came out from Eng-
land and started business as a teamster. Sonic
time in 1870 he went up country with his bullock-
dray and a valuable load. He was then a quiet,
sober, intelligent man, with a good bank-balance
and sundry other property. He struck a bush
pub. at an early stage of his journey, and had his
first drink of Queensland rum. After that he
remained in an obfuscated state for a week, and
at the end of that period he made over his waggon
and bullock-team, his load of goods, his bank-
balance, and everything else to the publican, and
two days later he was shunted into a lunatic
asylum. It is presumed that he is either dead or
still a lunatic —anyhow, he has never been heard of
since. Hum was a convincing fluid in those grand
old days, and the liquor-trade had money in it.
The management of a big steamship firm
having received continual complaints concerning
the slothful despatch of their vessels at Newcastle,
N.S. W., one of the firm, a potentate with no
practical experience, proceeded to that port to
investigate the matter. On his arrival, ho found
one of the firm’s vessels discharging heavy bagged
stuff under the superintendence of llarrh, a smart
and capable stevedore. “ Hullo, Harris, what’s
this? Only three bags in a sling. Pooh! pooh !
this won’t do. No wonder the vessels are delayed
hero. Put six bags in a sling.” Looking at his
employer with unconcealed scorn, Harris (an in-
dependent blasphemer of the most atrocious type)
replied : “Do you think I’m a blinging, blanky,
dashed, doggone fool?” “Sir, I don’t know what
to think of yon—only three bags in a sling, and
such disgraceful language, too!” “Look ’ere,
sir,” said Harris, “ you go back to your
sanguinary office, you’re only a carnation fool
at this work.” “Oh! am I? Hey, you down
there ! (to the lumpers in the hold) six bags in the
next sling—double sling them.” Turning to the
donkey-man, Harris said: “When this blanky
son of a gun gives the word to go, just you turn
on steam, pin your lever, and run for your (adjec-
tive) life.” “Go !” said the employer. The driver
turned on steam, pinned his lever, and rushed aft.
The six bags rose slowly to the puffing and trem-
bling of the donkey for about fifteen feet, then tell
thudfully back into the hold, while the engine,
divorced from its anchorings, made a bee-line
heavenwards, hung in the air for a second, then
landed again on the deck with a fearful crash.
“There! didn’t I tell you you were a blanky
fool ?” said Harris, with a horse laugh. “ Well, I
must admit I am,’’replied the chopfallen owner.
There is an unportfolio’d Minister in the
N.S.W. Works Department, of whom Minister
Lyne once enthusiastically said: “If I were a
monarch I would make that man an ambassador.”
The official to whom casual and meagre reference
is made in the press, and who, for diplomatic
reasons, consents to be known as the orderly to
the Minister of Works, is plain Tom Collins. He
is as modest as the violet, as secretive as an oyster,
and as courteous as Grandison. In the public
service he is known as “ the Butler-General,” or
“Minister of Corks.” Physically he is tall and
slender, like Malvolio; much-shaven, with aquiline
features, rubicund complexion, eyes glistening
with benevolence, and a smile warranted to sub-
due even a professional beauty at forty paces.
The oldest inhabitant cannot remember the time
when Old Tom was not associated with Cabinets,
exercising impalpable but potent sway. Some hold
that he is a Mahatma. Since 1851 ho
for loyalty to the Crown, what John P™’
was to Queen Victoria; for
sagacity and tact, what Oliver le J)ain w a °?’
Louis XL, and for real controlling influence wha?
Bismarck was to Octogenarian Bill. Not a ,
remembers Tom as otherwise than patriai-pfli
Abrahamic. If a reporter could go up half ’
century hence on a deputation he would find T a
beaming the same regulation smile, and sHu
speciously affecting to be a servant and not 1
Minister, neither older nor younger. He ' a
splendid specimen of the almost extinct nolhL.Ji
Struldbrug. There are only four others left-om
Dad, Parkes, George Thornton, and old Glad
stone. As his title denotes, his function is to loot
after the bin and the hamper when Ministers sallv
forth to stump the country. Mr. Dibbs often said
in ecstatic admiration : “ Collins always puts one
in good spirits,” his ambiguous way of statintr
that Tom always puts good spirits into one~ 0 r
two, or legion, as the ease may be. Tom ought t
have gone with Sir Dibbs. When Collins accepted
the office of Butler-General he stipulated that his
colleagues should drink under his direction
assuring them that in such case their days would be
long in the land. The understanding has been
shamefully broken, but optimists yet indulge the
hope that politicians may yet awaken to the faith
that a knowledge of the correct brand through the
Minister of Corks alone exalteth a nation. If
Mr. Collins was not born in the purple he
“growed ” into it. His colleagues are scrupulously
polite to him, for they know not how soon the
whirligig of time may find them standing on the
threshold they will have no right to pass un-
announced, delicately combating his bland assur-
ances that “the Minister has just gone out.” As
a bluffer-off of political monstrosities and “boo-
jums,” or freaks of nature, he is peerless. What
is wanted is a Praxiteles to chisel Tom in his great
act of drawing a champagne-cork. He has been
taken at Doughboy Hollow and Mother of Ducks
for the noble Governor himself. When touring
in the direction of the Gorongobelly Caves his
colleagues, fagged by the journey, begged him on
arrival at Jackass Flat to interview the Mayor, and
ascertain the day’s programme. He called among
other places at the public school, where the kids
were rehearsing the Jersey cantata. The dominie
almost prostrated himself with reverence, and
besought “his Excellency’s ” gracious sanction to
give the children a half-holiday. The Butler-
General stood for a moment in uffish thought, and
then wrote on a sheet of foolscap which specified
the boon the magic words, “Approved. T.C.”
And the little dears responded heartily to the
schoolmaster’s cue, “ Three cheers for His
Excellency the Governor !”
Geelong tweed suits are sold in Melbourne
at <£l 9s. 6d. How made?
Nat Levi burrows and hammers away with
his Melbourne Daily News idea, but has altered
the basis.
The Devonport (Tas.) Town Board collects
some £350 annually in rates, of which over half
is spent in official salaries, rent, &c. Of the rest,
it is proposed to give the chairman a salary of
.£lOO a year, and the munificent balance will be
expended on municipal improvements


ill!!
Lull
(lilt Uliii
■’n
HI
mimiii
Illli
mi mi
mu imm
■ii Hi
iimmiiil]
minim
i l
■>111111111111!)
IHll||j||||lll>
ami >lllllll
d
Pure blood is a life-long delight. It is health—real good health and
strength—free from pimples, spots, sores and aches.
Have pure blood by taking Prazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally, ana use
a really good modern soap—Frazer’s Sulphur Soap—externally, and you
ensure a clear skin and a good complexion.
It is a mistake to suppose that a good skin or a clear complexion can be
secured by Soap alone. It cannot. A pure Soap—Frazer’s Sulphur Soap
is an invaluable aid to personal beauty, but the first essential is pure blood.
This must never be forgotten. If we can’t have the blood quite pure, then
we must get it as pure as we can,
A man wants a clear skin and a wholesome complexion, in profession or
business. Else if he be blotchy, pimply, or disfigured, other men fight shy
of dealing with him. Let the man take Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally
and use Frazer’s Sulphur Soap externally,
A woman needs a good complexion else her happiness is decreased, and
her charm to the other sex much lessened. Let the woman take Frazer’s
Sulphur Tablets internally and use Frazer’s Sulphur Soap externally.
A child for its health’s sake needs a rosy skin, free from eruptive
blemish, and a blood free from the taint of fever and infectious germs. Let
the child take Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally and use Frazer’s Sulphur
Soap externally,
Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets used internally ensures good blood J—pure blood
that holds disease at bay and gives health.
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap renders the skin soft, supple and smooth, neither
drying the oils of the skin, nor shrivelling the nails, nor splitting the hairs.
It is a milled soap, contains extra balm, and is free from excess of alkali or
fat. It is simple and truly the best of all Soaps, and contains Oil of
Eucalyptus,
Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets are put up in 1/6 packets (post free 1/8 ) \
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap, in Green Boxes, price 9d. (Post free, lid.) Three
packets, post free, 2/6.
Frazer’s productions are sold by, or may be ordered of, all chemists and
medicine vendors at home or in any part of the world. Sole Proprietors,
Frazer’s Tablets, Ltd., 11, Ludgate Square, London, E.C.
TEST THEM
FREE OF CHARGE.
Write for samples of “Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets, naming Bulletin, and they will be
sent yon gratis and post free. “Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets” are the pleasantest and most
efficacious of all Spring medicines. They are invaluable in the treatment of all Blood and
Skin Diseases,. Eruptions-, Eczema, &c. They are specially indicated for children, being
alike safe, pleasant,, and efficacious. As a remedy for women’s complaints they are
unequalled. They are preventive of Chills, Colds, Rheumatism, and Constipation, and are
of great sendee in. the- treatment of these complaints. They arc the best of all blood
purifiers, and ward, off influenza and infectious complaints.
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap t mtains also a proportion! of. Eucalyptus,, and is a- valuable
emolliant and. antiseptic soap.
Those who desire a good skin and complexion, clear, healthy, and free from blemish*
are specially recommended to use “Frazer's Sulphur Tablets ” internally, and “ Frazer’d
Sulphur Soap” externally. The last named is the purest of all snaps, and absolutely the
best. It leaves the skin soft and smooth, and neither dries the nails nor hair. It is free
from excess of alkali or fat, and contains extra soft cream, which is especially so'othing and
beneficial to the skin.
“Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets” are put up in 1/6 packets (post free, 1/8); “ Frazer’s
Sulphur Soap,” in green boxes, price 9d. (Post free, lid.) Three packets,- post free, 2/6;
Frazer’s productions are sold by, or may be ordered of, all Chemists and Medicine'
Vendors at home or in any part of the world. Sole Proprietors, Frazer’s Tablets,v Ltd. ,
11, Ludgate Square, London, EC.
Jk.UL&t>JTSi J \±&LTa. Depots
56 MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
293 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


Footballers ! Smoke GN U N Darlings.
Snssex-street revels in G N IT N Darlings.
Positively the Boat Hair - Dressing
For Strengthening, Beautifying and Preserving the Hair.
£ HARLBITE ’
WORLD-RENOWNED
Hair Producer and Hestorer,
Used hy thousands daily. Its Superiority is Unsurpassed,
Edtraids* * ’
?v2sso
AFTER USE
Positively Forces
Luxuriant Hair,
Whiskers
ANE»
MoustachioS
To grow heavily in a few
weeks, without injury to the
skin, and no matter at
what age.
AFTER USE.
THE WORLD-RENOWNED REMEDY FOR BALDNESS.
from whatever Cause arising. As a producer of WHISKERS and MOUSTACHIOS it has never been equalled.
AS A CURER OF
V7eak Sc Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour never fails.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly Harmless and Devoid of any
Metallic or other Injurious Ingredient.
Nothing so EFFtiCTtJAL as Edwards’ “ Marlene.”— “ Dear Sir,—l am very pleased to say that your 1 Marlene Ms
taking effect upon my hair. Have tried several remedies, but none have proved so effectual as Edwards’ ‘ Marlene.’—
E. RICKET, 595 High Road, Gunnersbury.”
A Wonderful Discovery.’— “ Dear Sir,—Yours is indeed a wonderful discovery. 1 have uSed oile bottle, and Can
detect kn improvement in my hair already. Please send another bottle. —W. A. RUDSTEAD, 40 Handsworth
Street, Glasgow.”' . .
An Anxious Father Satisfied. “ Sir, -I am pleased to testify to the efficacy of your ‘Marlene;’ My little boy
(4J years old) has had a bald place on the back of bis bead from his birth. I applied the ‘ Marlene ’td the place daily,
and the result has been most satisfactory ’’—Name and Address suppressed by desire. Original may be seen.
Is., 2s» 6d.» 3s» 6d., and 6s. 6d. per Bottle. To he obtained from the leading Merchants, Wholesale
Druggists, Chemists, and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
Manufactured Only by >
EDWARDS and G ®.,
95, High Holhoru, London, England.
The Most Delicious Sauce in the World.
HE c*ii
» ♦
KSHIRL RE
*■ ~ '
U BA
i
SMS*
w
Si®
Melons
WITH
CHOPS,
STEAKS,
FISH, &c.
MAKES COLD MEAT A LUXUhY.
BLENDS ADMIRABLY WITH ALL GRAVIES.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Soldi Everywhere.
Wholesale: TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND L’VERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor.- COODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
Shipping.
pNGLAND VIA AMERICA
A IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
■ln conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Si’dney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:
fd
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points at route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £O3 and £OO.
Combination Ticket. <£s2 10s. and <£s7 13s. Id.
STEERAGE ... £3O 13s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON. Manager,
fiOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACUEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers.
Commander.
Leave Sydney
at 11 a. in.
Leave Mel-
bourne 4 p. m
Oceanien
PoJynesien
Fiasclii
L. Bnulard ..
September
October
2O
'October 31
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £6>,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at tire following rates:
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
First
Class.
£lO5
£ll5
Second
Class.
i. 64
.168
Third
Cla«.
£3l
130
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to L’aris and Calais. N. B. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office. 15 Macquarie-plaoe.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
PAPER-HANGINGS
PER
O
ROLL
PAI
529 GEORGESi/BathurstSt.
Brickfield Hill .
T. B. HALL & CO.’S
ALE & S T OUT.
BOAR’S
HEAD
BRAND.
V is
RACE M/ ftK,
BOAR'S
HEAD
BRAND.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
Fifteen Years Practice in Australia.
DR. H. E. KUGELMANN,
The Most Eminent and Experienced Herbal Practitioner
in Australia, may row be CONSULTED FREE at his
SYDNEY Branch Offices every Month at
’ 4 Otis” Chambers, 82 King Street,
si im:v
(Opposite the Sydney Arcade).
Take Elevator to Third Floor.
Following are the Days for BOTANIST this Year—
Thursday s and Fridays, 25! h and 20th August; 22nd and
23rd September ; 20th and 21st, October ; 17th and 18th
November; 15th and 16th December, and eacli month
thereafter. Hours—Thursdays, 9 <5l. G; Fridays, 9 till
4 only ; and at Head Offices, MELBOURNE, 310 Flinders
Street (opposite Flinders Street Station/ every Monday
and Tuesday, 9 till 4, and Monday Evenings, 7.30 till
9 p.m.
UNLIKE other DOCTORS, Mr. KUGELMANN can tell
his Patients what is the matter without being informed
of the nature of their Disease. All long-standing,
deeply-seated, and Internal, Chronic Diseases yield
readily to his new treatment without poisons or drugs.
Thousands have been Cured
By him during the Past 15 Years after all other Doctors
had given them up as hopeless. Sworn Certificates of
Cured Cases posted free anywhere.
If preferred, a Guarantee is given to Effect a CURE for
a Staled Term.
Patients living at a distance can bo treated emially
well through the post. Write for a self diagnosing
Chart free. Correspondence freely invited, absolutely
confidential.
Damper V. Bread.
Now, each bushraan listen to me, for I want you on your
oath
Here to judge ’twixt bread and damper (that is, those
who’ve eaten both); r
I’m not writing now of “ Johnnie ’’-cakes or baking-
powder rolls,
But of flour and salt and water that’s been baked amongst
tllG Co?tls
I have eaten just d few mySelt that might be labelled
good, ...
And I’ve eaten some like leather, and I've tasted some like
wood; , . ,
But when taken altogether you can knock me on the head
if I’ve ever seen a damper that was worth a loaf of bread.
I have never met a “ new-chum who had done a little
“ drove ”
Who wasn’t more a bushman than a ten-year station cove,
And to hear him talk of damper and comparing, it to
bread, , " .
Why! you’d fancy one was feather-light, and think the
IcittiGi* lead *
Now, I always like the new-chums, they’re a sotlrce of
constant joy,
From the boss who runs the station to the little mgger-
b°y>
And though they can’t be always new, and mostly learn
to ride,
While they are they drink thin “rails” and chew thin
dough With proper pride;
Now, I don’t dislike a damper (that’s a good one), be it
said
(Though I don’t dislike the damper, yet I much prefer
the bread);
But to make a real'y good one, cOnie, how hi any of you ve
learnt,
Don’t you often find them sodden, With the outside
mostly burnt ?
Yes, to make them’s very easy (that’s to those who ve
never tried):
Mix your salt and flour with water, make your hole and
put inside
On a layer of little ashes, and then cover up with more
(For the earth’s j our baker’s oven) and it hasn t got a
door).
Then you call a little “ smoko ” while you think with
honest pride
How you’ll like jmur maiden damper (that is burning up
inside) ..
When the “post and rails” are floating, and the halt
hour’s up, you go
And rake away the ashes and investigate your dough.
Well, the odds are, if it isn’t burnt, it’s like half-limited
glue; .
Now, I put it to you bushmen, isn’t what I say quite true?
Then, you eat your bit of tucker, draw your bluej’ o er
j our head,
Soon to dream—of stones of damper in a country made
of bread.
TUR PAUPER.
The Coming Time.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
llark ! the vdices of the fuaue are resounding in men’s
souK,
Like the hurtling of wild storm-winds through ihe gnarled
grey forest-holes;
In men’s hearts the ghosts of things to he are dancing
Carina jnulcs—
The time is coining 1
Do yon hear the millions marching to the ruling of the
world?
Do you hear the tramp of squadrons with their battle l
flags unfurled?
Do you hear the shouts of triumph at the hollow heavens
hurled ?
The time is coming !
l)o you hear the, clanking sabres in the silence of the
night?
Do vnit Imar the arnloitr ringing as they gird then! for the
fight?
Do o i,u near the slogan rising from the people in their
might?
The time is coming!
Do you hear the workers rending all the bonds that gold-
greed ties ?
Do you hear the crash and clamour as the lustful Mammon
dies
In the midmost of the market where men’s blood he sells
and buys ?
The time is coming !
■ Yea: a glorious day is coming when the people shall be
free)
By t e rule of Love sole-governed from the centre to the
sea,
When all men each to other shall as true blood-brothers
be:
The time/is coming!
Yea; Freedom is approaching in her proud triumphal car)
And the glory of her presence cleaves the cloud banks
from afar j
’Through the rifts her tadiance lightens like another
Eastern Star:
The time is coming !
From the wilderness of bondage hark the prophets’ rou »
ing cries,
As they preach the new evangel with a god light hi their
eyes;
They are calling for a leader, for a new Christ to arise:
The time is coming !
STEELR GRKY.
The Salvationists of Australia quiver with
the Canadian intelligence, but appear solid, the
only grievance being that “- staff ” officers do not
share the privations of those “irl the field.”-
Commissioner Coombs came from Canada.
Editor Bulletin, — I think the scarcity of
teetotal names among Immortals due to the fact
that teetotallers as a class are nervously feeble,
Unable to graft hard and late as to drink their
half-bottle without getting up with watery eyes
the next morning.—Yours, J. C.
Dear Bulletin^ —You suggest giving tone
to the triangles by adorning it (is it “it?”)
with white shirts, gloves,-&c. The idea.is auda-
cious, and if evet Dame Justice usurps the
legitimate throne of Mammon may possibly come
off. But more'pertinent to to day is that part of
N.S.W. Minister of Justice O’Connor’s draft
anti-larrikin Bill which exempts from bodily
affliction all under 10 or 18 years. To effect
this he repeals the existing provision for
the fleshly woes of those from 10 to 14, who, it
appears, are actually lickable in some way known
probably to Heaven and the man who drew the
clause, for it certainly has been as dead a letter as
the anti-“sweep ” law. This extraordinary pro-
viso of Mr. O. has escaped you. Now, how on
earth is it defensible, even without the frightful
corollary of the increase of convictions in five
years from 20,000 to 40,000, which, of course,
nobody troubles about? Is it not putting the cart
before the horse? or exempting the junior classes
of a school from the cane? ora father laying by the
rod till the age of knickerbockers is past? Surely
Parliament, whatever it may do with the Major
Striping, will never be stupid enough to sanction
this absurd outrage on the order of Nature. The
reach of the Law over the young wants extending,
not restricting. I’ve heard a boy in cool blood tell an
idiotic mother he “ wished he had a stone to break
her legs.” He should have been punishable on
my information —and so in many other cases
where the parental hand is not. I’ve heard a
P.M. ask a woman, whose child (“ infant ” as he
called it) had taken two lollysticks, whether she
wanted a jury. Nor did he remark on the insanity
of the course he was compelled to offer, insanity
paralleled only by the dementia of the statesman
who tells his official offspring he'll warm them
when they grow up.— James Osborne, Harden,
N.S.W.


Medical
mi
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELT
\
i
\VA
Hi s )
W
/r
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
bISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete ■with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
*,nd all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
fcelts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. , Those belts are
tnade for the specific purpose of producing a Continuous,
inild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
faionials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
Without paying for them until they have proved then! com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage. •» ,
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydney.
ill
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
and favourably known as a successful specialist
in all female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address Mrs. G. WOOD, 165 Berkley
Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
The Marvel of Hie Age!
Q*
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cures 1 ‘ Barcoo Rof’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Farmers
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout, the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia —see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale:
Australian Drug Co.
Drapery.
Indispensable for any lady,
TEUFEL’S DIANA BELT.
Infinitely Superior to the Sanitary Towels.
Comfortable & Reliable.
No Discomfort! No Ohaping! No Chill!
Sold by
Drapers, Ladies’ Outfitters, and Chemists.
Sole Agent for Australasia (wholesale only)—
.F. S' I C IS,
9 WYNYAED STREET, SYDNEY;
314 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous*
Mo Kicking*.
Easy Shooting-, Far-lulling, Strong and Well-Finishet
Breeck-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn.
Q-tinmakci’s,
107 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Send for List
C 3-. HI. SMI’TS: <Sz SOM
IT AT M ANU FACjTtJ iIKHH,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
-SOLE AGENTS FOR-
HENRI HEATH, 60&, ©97, GOO Oxford Street, LONDON.
\
mm
HATS
OF EVERY KIND. - ,
fa -v
Ladies’Club Straw Hats for Yachting, Bbatinffan Tennis
!>'
SUi®
dm*
Wanted to send for particulars of (BNT’,r.T c n)
Tansv I*llla, ■which are bettor'then filed or
Pennyroyal. Cures obstructions from whatever
cause. Never fails. No pills or powders like
them Particulars free. [Mention this paper.
W Cavendish, P.O. Box 161, Melbourne.
Medical.
fd
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.E.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.,
201
Macquarie Street North
(Opposite Parliament House)
Sycaoiey.
201
Dr. PATEESON lias been engaged for over
Twenty Yeaus in the study and practice of
QHRONIC,
fd
AND
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
Nkt.i 'dical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for hint the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies Who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old,
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
species before the eyes, giddiness; weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears,, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “ Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CH 4
&
&
0
PATENT
PILLS.
us
eft
65
&
3®
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations,_&c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are, invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
fheir use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to Work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS tes ifled
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
2S Sokl ( by 1 and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
everywhere. . , ,
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements
GEATEFOL—COMFORTING
prescriptions
Are to be found in tlic “Insist ami info.
for the Speedy Cure of Nkkvocs Dkiulii * and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book nil!
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamp c
Address
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious.
sMosrsr4
Ni
mmum
W\%Sn&r»
mm
>B5
MS/T
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels "them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
V
HRUPP
Suvanic Chain
i
a.
\\
fd
IF SO,
iMiiGtQ TWlftf
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old. rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
TiSE lißlil‘B’ GALVANIC CHAIN KELT,
all a°'ree in praisins' that most scientific oi Electro-Thera*
peniical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is unrivalled.
Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The Nervous
are strengthened, and the Debilitated restored to perfect
health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an unfailing
cure for all Nervous, Sexual or Chronic Diseases, and is
GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, completely and
lastingly, the following complaints;—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Bade and
Ches>, Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb
Ague Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney
Complaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness,
Diseases of the Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weak
ness, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy, Sperma-
torrhoea, Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart
Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking US EL Loo
DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledtred by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Rrupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to »ive perfect satisfaction, lor full particulars as to
terms etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous system explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatisealsocontains facsimiles of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. Ihe
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
Tlie prices of the Kiupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
.Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor .... Care Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
KllllS*!* <1 iLVANIiI <ll AIN BELT CO.,
Box 017, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember— The K.G. Chain Belt cares without medicine,
is casv to wear, is sent on approval, and the fitst cost
the only cost-
J*£S
Glasgow
IS®
sp it
KA
T'Tlfc
•:
s Menzies^MsgoW-
Dili NR
a
b y
WHISKY.
J.x-l ooi’ W :ri! !n
hr t;.c I •/ in the
Market,
Sole Ascent*
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21 s, to I (id. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S rOEPQISB HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.”
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
Sole Agents:
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 A 085 George Street, Sydney,
ik Pleasure t °
K*OjSS
f U g E Rii
GRINDING
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ 1 find your
Razors excel-
lent”
REAL GERMAN
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, Dondon, W.
hollomggrohnO
77
« r -.
■-A
- '
•■-■■-=>
p
V
o'-
t?
V
p o n
MOtTST ACHE!'
OH. 0 H.
ES K*i23.<s !
The LteiiT.vtsa Moustache Producer. IS3i
Beliahlo, Safe, and Simple-to Use, Follow directions, and
a' Moustache will result, as surely as night follows flay.
CspSllarino-lOs. Grl., Post Free.
CR ll« «£ A fi'B’Ev* So!C Agosjfs,
680 and 082’George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY,
foi
SK
'
| W
30
Lissa& Phillips
ydtoy
Bar


“ANTICUT A.”
*OOR Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
nlitted to every livery stable in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. a,nd 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers throughout the
colony, or from 11. LEICESTER, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.W. for “Antiouta"
Company.
~V[ OlTCE. —Advertisements for Current Week
J cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at thfe PARS of SPIERS and PdNDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Whlstey.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEEiALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION,
Sydney Agents; ... CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
HUDSON
Clyde Works,
BROTHERS. LTD.,
Granville, New South Wales.
AGRICULTURAL AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
s/B)Y
M*
ms
waMAm
■i : ~4
IRRIGATION; —Complete Plants contracted for.
“CLYDE” WINDMILLS are made specially for the colony, and give better
results than any imported Mills. Ask for testimonials. Our large and
practical experience is at disposal of our clients.
‘‘CLYDE” DAM-PLOUGHS and EARTH-SCOOPS in all sizes.
AOrEICULTUEE— Our “CLYDE” PLOUGHS, from one-furrow to eight-
furrows, have won first place; and our new HARVESTING
MACHlNERY—Strippers, Winnowers* Binders and Mowers challenge
comparison with any.
* i
y-'
NO DUTY. Please write for full Illustrated Catalogues.
A
Or. if*
/: -y.
“tK.A"
o*’® 5 ©
: ' T
:/i:
'JV
iA '.ivA
• A, -.■,:{ .u- .£S
?• i
at
S&T:
V
®
«. A. H« rv< v, Agent, 144 < larcncc.st , Sydney.
NEWBY’S LINCTUsT
(REGISTERED).
m*. \€'
m ’ The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
HttOMIIITIS
and
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemist.?, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Som Proprietor :
J. H, FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, Geonre st
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited. s
|_ADIES
9
Dr. CATOM'S TANSY PULS
are better than Steel or Penny
royal. Cures obstructions from
whatever cause. Never fails
No [Jills or powders like them’
Particulars free from the agent,
Mr. W. PRICE, BOX ,100, MELBOU
“ A dolden Shanty,”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
ALL AGENTS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid to
4-1.„ A.. .4- i—; i ’
Huntington Mill.
•JSft
Knowles’ Fimtpst
& LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
»ScO.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYr>DNTE-3r, 3NT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
m
Rock Breakers.
Weslinglionse Engines.
mi
I
1
a»w^ss=ss=
m
Wood Burning Boilers.
.I—l. -n tjaa+.sg,
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PPESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street i"™* l °««j Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
fd
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
*l.
lip
I IV
I 1
m
..•■ I
.S B ifAHcr
I*' 111
BMta
r. I- ' 1
