

w
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
AIT KEN S ALE BICKENS’' WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PB1NCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 G-eorge-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R * Gr - WATKIKTS Sc CO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB —
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
ZEIXIIF’LOSI'VIES, BTJILDEES’ & GEUEEAL lEOEMOEG-BB Y.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
- FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
o
%>
<5
o
is
~scss
M
XP
o
o
<=s
AtS
&-.
Dog’s XXea^dL
ALE & STOUT.
JULES RENARD Sc CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
19QOW
r" 6 -
- <
?
2
oX
HE
- i=lU tg
xr®2
I rOim
rn£
' l' v -
HS
>4
HIM
Tlie Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders ■will Receive Spec.'al Attention.
“ A. Grolden Sh.an.ty
AND THE
SECOND EDITION
—OF—
“ The History of Botany Bay
can now be obtained at
J. H. J HOMPSON and CO.,
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
1 )
ŵ
«££ O. HOWARD.
iZX-ts jy» 3S5Tew South Wales for* Messrs. Clayton and Shuttleworth.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
JV-7
•> CCAYJpm.SMUn LEWOMH UKMIH JZ?I
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
I.?*-
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING EXGINKS, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. STdf Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application
j. & C. Howard., 2SOi Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 12 —No, 658.]
[Saturday, Septembe - 1892.


TRUSS
World will Retain
ture or give Relief
Pierce’* Magnetic
'l»u**. This Celebrated
radically cured though
cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
_t can be worn with ease and comfort
Night and Day. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mail
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.. Ban Francisco. Ctl
Or Washington 11. Soul di Co., ICO Pitt St..
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agent*
NO
In the
■ Rup-
Eke Dr.
Elaatlc
Truss has
nds of
Springs.
ẁ
ows
EMBROCATION^
R
Ns
£
1/
» net
r<->*
\SOLO
M
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FTTZ
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum. •
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
TOO FAT
The English method re-
duces weight permanently
by easy, safe, pleasant and
speedy means. Strict diet
and nauseous drugs un-
necessary. PRATT’S SYSTEM is universally adopted by
professional men, actors, pugilists, jockeys and others, who
MUST RIGIDLY KEEP DOWN OBESITY
"CORPULENCY AND How TO CUBE IT * «d instructive
pamphlet showing "How to Act," sent in sealed envelope for
four stamps. Address—Mk. F. ALLAN, BOURKE & WILLS
CHAMBERS, MELBOURNE, Vic. Avoid base imitations.
PRATT’S is the only sure and practical treatment, and must
produce satisfactory results. Warranted Quite Backless.
frMEN
Er&f
WHY WILL YOU SUFFER from
NERVOUS WASTING and
DEBILITATING DISEASES »hich
destroy the VITAL FORCES of MAN-
HOOD? You inav now cure yourselves
without CONSULTING a DOCTOR.
Send Six Penny Stamps for the new
MEDICAL BROCHURE, containing the
French method of QUICK, PERMA-
NENT SELF-CURE.
Address: Parisian Agency Co., Bos 766, Sydney.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
“This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSONS
STOUT
De LISSA
and PHILLIPS,
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
hi Four H His by the use of
ẃ
The only Infallible Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
«id unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. RicorcTs Essence oj Life restores manhood to the most
thattered and debilitated constitutions , regenerating all the
important elements of the human frame, and enables man to
fulfil his most sacred obligations.
Jn cases of 125., or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed envelop*
Agents for Australasia—Perry & Co , 73 Gfrtrude Street
Fit Mr oy , Melbourne.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. FBRR E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Coni Cssar MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
REIVEEDIES,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER,
Central Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
Unrivalled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums.
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“'White Rose"on“Golden
Lyre,” with Address in full.
STEELES GALVANIC
lt
75
&
ELECTRIC BELTS.
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pastes, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it.a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, lack of man-
hood, nervous debility, rheumatism, sciatica, neuralgia,
lumbago, gout, indigestion, liver diseases, &c. STEELE’S
BELTS forwarded immediately upon receipt of £2—
registered letter, post-order, or cheque. When ordering
Belt send waist measure above the hips.
Druggist. H. P. SABIEL, Chemist.
Sole Agent for New South Wales, 78 Hunter Street,
SYDNEY.
PRIVATE HOME FOR LADIES. -Mrs. L AVENDER,
Professional Nurse and Accoucheuse,
Receives Patients from the country under Surgical or
Medical Treatment. (Established in Botany-street Ten
Years.) For terms, apply “ Windermere,” 132 Botany-
street Moore Park, Sydney.
For Consumption use
foif M ANE * Sons
ẅ
w
f
A (\/
K/
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT !N THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Ut’s “MITMIS” Sualjftns Cii
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUENZA,
always keep a bottle of Bosisto’s *' Parrot Brand Eucalyptus Oil by you and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
It is sl Germ Killer.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser—a few drops mixed
with water —and steam the apartment. INHALE THE STEAM if there be
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles.
(••)
Dr, BRENDON CURGENVEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil:
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease.’
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “J. Bosisto, Richmond, are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for
B OSI ST O’ S PARROT BFt A.KT ID.
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighiton of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMINSTER .... Proprietress.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
IVlaßtCtSt)
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
Royal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised by* Act of
Parliament to practise in all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
located at
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skill may have the benefit of my
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
Mylife-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous. Chronic, Skin, and Special
Dise«ses. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY, FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
m
m
M
Arising from Indiscretion, Excess or Indulgence, producing some of the following effects—Nervousness,
Debility, Dimness of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the Face, Aversion to the Society of
Females, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominess, Despondency, Barrenness, Unfitness to Marry,
Melancholy, Dyspepsia, Stunted Development, Lost Manhood, Night Losses, Pains in the Back, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safely and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forms, affecting Body, Nose Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old S»res, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Tamo-tested Remedies. Stiff and
Swollen Joints and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CUSSED. Soft-feeling bunch of earth-like
worma-VABICOCEIiE, IS (X'RABEG WITHOUT OPERATION by Surgeon
Langston’s Electric Quadrant with double compress and support, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, price £2. Constitutional or Acquired Weaknesses of both Sexes treated successfully 7. Rupture
instantly relieved and permanently cured. Tits, Epileps', or falling sickness radically cured. I use only the
best remedies. Avoid unskilful pretenders and specious promised cure-alls— they
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with
skill in a respectful manner; and knowing what to do, A’o Experiments are made. Home
Treatment. Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home.
Tliose requiring- Immediate Treatment can by forwarding particulars of their case
and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post. Before confiding- vour case else-
where, Consult the Old and Successful Specialist, STJRCUEOA LAAGBTOA. Age
and experience important. _ A friendly letter or call may save future suffering and shame, and
add golden y-ears to life. Ao mercury or poisonous drugs used.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—The Only Qualified Surgeon piactising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
(V CONSULTATION FREE.
TALES of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
BOX 1034 G.PO
Inspection. Invited. H
TELEPHONE 973.
W. &> SONS
FRO M
THEIR
RECEIVE WEEKLY
S H EFFIELD MA.IMUFACTO
ALL THE CHOICEST DESIGNS IN
ELECTRO-PLATE and CUTLERY GOODS.
»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
S3T A MAGNIFICENT COLLECTION, SUITABLE FOR
SPORTS, P RUSH NT AT 10 NS, SHIP, CLUB, HOTEL and FAMILY USE,
ALWAYS ON VIEW AT THEIR SHOW-ROOMS :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS—93 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at London. Edinburgh and Melbourne.
SPOONS & FORKS
SPOONS Sc FORKS


Medical*
Cough <»
ŵ
jJemost Safe and Speedy Remedy
influenza, coughs*
COLDS, HOARSENESS, &c.
IN THE nursery it is invaluable.
it is taken Coughing
is gone, and
2® fVfishin'g S lee p ensues.
® e * re r/it/w«roN G.N.tt. Office, BelM, Cn, Per-
m-J°^f T uyhoy suffered dreadfully with cough
Balsam 'effectually cured. Send two
Sues perreturri to give to lB9l.
. Sold by ail Chemists at Is. IJd. and 2s. 9J.
only by A. Hayman & Co., Loudon, England,
prepared only oy Bbo s., S. Hoffnting & Co.,
Sydney.
book OF NATURE and Illustrated Manage
U Guide.-A full and explicit explanation ot the
structure and uses of the organs cf life and generation in
man and woman, intended especially for the married,
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the intent
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon all
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty-
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process ot
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
World, by I). Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6. post
1/-! The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling attyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, bride 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
SySteHi, nptv edition, SIOO illustrations, by Hr. Foote post
tree 7/6. the Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
tot toilng Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’S
haft of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
pO'st 4/-. Maria Mcink, I/O, pelst 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, anti as it should he, by Andie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. WondferfUl Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Heading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6. Daubing without a master—Ball-
room Guide dnd Self-instructor, by Prof. Peltzer, 1/3.
“ Every Mail his own Schdobnast r, Ur HoW to'
Educate One's Sell, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modeim Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Lore, Hress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new w-ork containing dll
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. li. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
Street, SYDNEY.
►IT 35£T i
Book of Nature.
. ELASTIC STOCKINGS.
Kiietcaps, Anklets. Rubber Bandages, Chest Ex-
panders fat Contracted Shoulders.
Ladies’ Abdominal, Electric and Galvanic
Belts.
Enemas, Syringes, Uterine Supports, and Preven-
tive Pessaries. Ear Trumpets and Conversation
Tubes;
trusses for Rupture.
Ihe ttlost difficult ruptures effectually treated;
Artificial Legs, Arms and Hands,
with all the latest improvements, made specially
7,°™® r ~fiti and durability guaranteed.
bUYAPT & CO., 495 GEORGE-ST., Sydney.
iN.-B. An experienced lady in attendance,
___ Established 1853.
Miscellaneous.
wn
1
yt-'Z.
I
'v.-:
£s t eN Earth
Alii
Sole Agents—
_s_Brs7nng & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited
Opposite Parliament Mouse p
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
GRAND JfQ
...^■
Board ami p 0„:,. ~ "” ’" r
J^K% Pf.r week. Single Fit
fiiita for laj-ye fainiii’p? 01 ’* o^l^ o .' lOs - Specialar
Grau d Heot],lLlboaane,' ' l * BEKER >
in
ng'e
Th(
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
&
&
i E 2
5
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
Complete Treatise
*ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PttlCE 13
In Btwupt,
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
Dr. Kelly’s reputation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising as a Specialist, to be appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
districts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled. As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows That the Physician who has the power to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate with his fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
of his past folly.
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
Am 1 subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Peeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Feeling During the Day, Pams in the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Fits,
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small pamphlet but a
LARGE BOOK CONTAINING MANY PAGES of PRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
dr. kelly guarantees to cure all accepted cases. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELECTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY. This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
for .£1 Is. Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, &c., &c., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
Dr. W. H. Kelly, who is a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the Nwv South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Monday .
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday ~
Saturday..
.. .. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.ra, to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
~ .. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
~ ~ 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m, to 9 p.m,
~ .. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. .. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. .. 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
address w. H. KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STEEET, SYDNEY.
N.B.—DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
hi
M
2
3W
zSfd
Swr
R»
»r
Si®.
tl*
y
o*S
526*
■***>•»£
m
&
&
v
» - ;
2^
vi//pmm
•*SL.
sS2s&Z.
w
p?
1
sva«
/*•
rt°’>i
l.v'V
the light-running
»* *
V
m.
Latest and most important improvements I
AUTOMATIC TENSION.
ENLARGED BOBBIN.
AUTOMATIC BOBBIN WINDER.
DOUBLE FEED. EXTENSION TABLE.
HIGH ARM. SELF SETTING NEEDLE.
Simply Perfect! Perfectly Simple I
Before buying any other scad for .Circular.
Ask your Storekeeper to get you one
from
J. I. Johnston & Co.
5i Bourke St-, Melbourne.
743 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
167 Queen St., Brisbane.
TALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE : Is. ; Per Post, Is. 3d.
Medical.
Dr. RICHARDS*
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING- and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome hi*
friends and patients, during his consulting hour%
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ẁ
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, t.iddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for ho has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps he will send secure from observation in a
PIa FREIT e^ A P °ITrGE CLOTH. tIOUND
x>Ov><£.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private Or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
hook will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tlon and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tend ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary lor tiro cure of NER-
VOUtt DEBILITY. Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous it would bo advisable for you to sit down
ouietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. Ho will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
ononion of your case. If yon do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work the price of which is but sixpence ; enclosed
in the volume will be found a l>sb of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters arc carefully per-
used and answered they arc destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. All
communications should bo addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34. COLLEGE STREET) bID-SElfi
Re sure to mention this paper when writing
. CONSULTATION Tit EL,


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed £1,000,000
LA.E-C3-E BONUSES
And
UUDOUBTEB SEGTTIBi^
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary.
A. and •). STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
' Braiiii.
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia— *T. UVEac Williain, 297 GEORGE STREET, STINIY
w
Bass’ !Pale Ale
■ -
MIS APE
Guinness’ Extra Stout
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURR.
and are
HOT CHEMICALLY TREATED
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, IB oilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lightin
OF THE
BOROUGH OF IIEIIDFEIIIXr,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &c.
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
THE
‘ Plum ’
PH3
TflE
6 5
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that lias over been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
p • ( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Od. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ease, 21s.
■* ice (Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s; Pair Razors, ivory handles,, in beautiful case, 305..
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is «xlv % >
gj®, . CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
drlau. 00.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Usea.
ItUBBEU BOOTS for MINING, - SPOUTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc., Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
370 OEOFiaE STREET, SYDM:EY.
Clesvepb
JoveniaSoap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHETM, GOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
X\R. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
XJ JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, PI).D., P.1.C., P.O.S.
1
is
Jr
V>A
BAKER AND BOUSE,
MANUFACTURERS and MERCHANTS in PHOTOGRAPHIC SUPPLIES,
375 GrEORG-E STREET, (next A.J.s. Bank),
WildL -A.vistralia,! "W"11 eT Queensland!
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland*’
BY
.A.. w. e ei s n? o nxr.
ILLUSTRATED by thirty aborigines r
Selected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, includin'? several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer, called the “ Terrible Rite,”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia,
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia —Hunting, Righting;,
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “ Boorool ” (Bora) ceremonies.
The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Centnry!
Will (Appm in rßrisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, (Adelaide, (Tasmania, and
X3XT OCTOBER,
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD!
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MISSION,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND’S NATIVE PRODUCTS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY.'
SAY WELL A COT
depot
MARVEL
TOB A CCO
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES-
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney-
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in tire Building'
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST am. MONEY ORDER OFFICES ox thk PREMISES.
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest an J
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort »
visitors *3T Tariff, 10s. Cd. per day. Special Hales for Families. ■
WROXS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - r,,, M ,H( S m cS)-
W. W. AIKEN, Mann"cr (IS years in esl ' '


The Bulletin
\t ( ]. 12—Ko. €5B
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1892.
Price, 6d.
THE POLITICAL “SITUATION”: THE PROBABLE RESULT.
LEADER OF OPPOSITION : “Here, sonny, come and get up behind me; this is the animal that will take you over safe!"
THE LITTLE BOY OF MANLY : “No thanks! Never change horses while crossing a stream!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
PROPRIETORS :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt .street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only),
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 012 6
Quarterly 0 6 0
NOTICE.
Bn sending direct lu Tim Bulletin- Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Bote, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, but is entirely
m the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
1 erge, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
•when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But ire desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can bo obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, ‘SI Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subsci’ibers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on luterprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
\>aid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1892.
A Courtier in Disgrace.
There is—to put it mildly—some incom-
patibility between the gracefully apologetic
narrative in explanation of his acceptance of
a title, with which Sir George Dibbs
favoured the thousands in Sydney Cen-
tennial Hall, and the hard, cold, ap-
parently semi-official account cabled out
from England with respect to the
same transaction. Neither of the stories
can, by any exercise of sophistry, be
made to appear creditable to the ex-
Republican. If credit be given to the first
there is room for pity, but, if the second be
true, contempt must predominate over every
other sentiment. Sir George Dibbs’ own
statement is, in brief, that he had not been
three days in England when Lord Knuts-
ford ottered him a knighthood. He
declined, intimating that he had not come in
search of any “ self-gratification, ” and did
not personally value any honour “of that
kind.” But, later, Lord Knutsford, inti-
mating by letter that the proposal was
not his, but was due to a direct
intimation by the Queen —(cheers)—Our
Queen—(great cheering)—that it was her
desire that he, Dibbs, should accept the
distinction, he consented. Further, that,
had he not consented when the Queen wished
it, he would have been something Averse than
a hound, also a coward and a boor. Now,
accepting this story as true, Mr. G. 11. Dibbs
when he left Nbav South Wales, did so with
the reputation, chosen by himself, of being a
Republican. He had repeatedly expressed
himself publicly in that sense. He had in
the Federation Convention spoken with
emphatic approval of cutting the last link of
connection Avith the Crown and establishing
the Republic of Australia, as sentiments pro-
ceeding from the fullness of the heart, and
as being the inevitable destiny of Australia,
Among his political associates he posed as a
resolute Republican, and Avhen it fell to his
lot to form a Cabinet, he nearly wrecked his
opportunity by the determined attempt
which he made to associate Avith himself in
the Ministry a gentleman Avhose only claim
to public significance lay in the circumstance
that he once described himself as a “red
raw Republican.”
“ It is consequently difficult to conceive
how it came to pass that the Secretary
of State for the Colonies, who is kept well
posted up by the Governor in the charac-
teristics of all our leading men, dared to
affront Mr. Dibbs, the aggressive Republican,
with an offer of a knighthood almost as soon
as he had set eyes upon him, unless his
secret intelligence was to the effect that Mr.
Dibbs’ Republicanism was merely of the
quality of a coquette’s prudery, assumed for
the purpose of inviting attack and enhancing
her price. Sir George Dibbs represents
himself as an unwilling recipient of the
titular distinction, and pleads that he would
have been unmannerly to refuse the Queen.
But if it were unmannerly to refuse the
Queen, was it not unmannerly also to refuse
Knutsford ? To a Republican there is,
between a person on a throne and any other
person equally respectable in conduct, no
difference whatever. The question of sex
even does not apply. It was a principle Mr.
Dibbs was invited to sacrifice, and it is no
justification fora fall from virtue to say that
one fell because he couldn’t be so rude
as to rebuff a lady. That was Samson’s
folly when he permitted the shearing of the
long locks wherein lay the virtue of his
strength. It is certain that had Mr. Dibbs
expressed himself with peremptory clearness
to Lord Knutsfobd, when first accosted with
an offer of a title, he would never have been
molested by Queen Victoria. And Mr. Dibbs
has never been, nor is Sir George Dibbs
now, deficient in the faculty of peremptori-
ness, Had he, for example, when Lord
Knutsford invited him to name his poison
—the poison which was to kill his Repub-
licanism—briskly retorted “Damn titles!”
it might have been boorish, but it would
have been characteristic, and it would have
assuredly spared him the mortification of
having to yield to the monarch’s humble
solicitations.
* * *
The profound regard for good manners
which Sir George Dibbs alleged as his
excuse for allowing himself to be prevailed
on by the importunities of Queen Victoria
to accept a distinction which was repugnant
to him, is plainly only a pretence. It is
possible to decline an offer, by whomever
made, without laying oneself open to a just
charge of boorishness. It matters not
whether one is addressed by Queen Victoria
or Colonel Campbell : resistance to unwar-
ranted solicitations is possible without default
of courtesy. Evidently if Mr. Dibbs had
represented to Lord Knutsford that the
acceptance of any titular distinction would
involve a disgraceful and scandalous repudi-
ation of principle, and Queen Victoria
nevertheless urged such acceptance, it
would have been still possible for Mr.
Dibbs to have declined without unman-
nerliness. He could have conveyed to
Her Majesty his appreciative sense of her
intention to confer upon him what to her
signified a distinct honour, but could have
respectfully intimated that although to a man
whoesteemed the monarchical form of Govern-
ment with its accessories and a nobility and a
diminishing scale of titular distinction, a
title would be indeed an honour, no man
who had professed his preference for a Re-
publican form of Government could accept
investiture without involving himself in
political infamy. He might have repre-
sented that if the favour were designed not
to magnify him individually but as a compli-
ment to the colonists over whose affairs he
presided, he owed the very position which
brought him prominently under royal atten-
tion in no slight degree to his profession of
those very principles of democracy and
Republicanism with which the acceptance of
any title was irreconcileable. Supposing
that Mr. Dibbs had been a Roman Catholic
and Queen Victoria had pressed him to
accept a Bishopric in the Church of England,
would it have been “boorish” or “clownish,”
or would he have been “worse than a
hound,” had he declined to comply ? As the
case actually stood, it was open to him to
have informed Her Majesty, that what she
intended for an honour must be to him, as a
Republican, a disgrace, and that when he
returned among his fellow-colonists they
would be apt, in lieu of doing obeisance to
his title, to tell him that
"His honour rooted in dishonour stood.”
• # *
Thus far, only the most favourable aspect
of the matter has been considered. Turning
now from Sir George Dibbs’ own wretched
excuses to the very different statement which
those representations have apparently
elicited from official circles in London, it
seems that his attempt to represent himself
as having been fairly badgered into reluctant
acceptance of a title by the irrepressible per-
sistence of the Queen has provoked indignant
resentment. It ivould be surprising indeed
if Queen Victoria and her entourage did
not feel outraged by representations which
show her in the exceedingly undignified atti-
tude of running after a Republican colonial
Premier and humbly begging him to be so
good as to indulge her by permitting himself
to be knighted. If any credence can be
attached to the cablegrams upon the subject,
it is considered at Court that Sir George
Dibbs, in so traducing his Sovereign, has
placed himself in the position of deserving
the opprobrious epithets which he quoted
at the Centennial Hall as fitly characteris-
ing anyone who would slight the Queen.
This is a pretty pickle indeed, and it may be
doubted whether any other public man in
Australia would have had the transcendent
talent for blundering which has been neces-
sary to achieve its concoction. Sir George
DibßS has, in England, abjured Republi-
canism and Democracy by getting a title and
becoming a courtier ; now he comes back and
tells us that the Court prostrated itself before
him—-that Queen Victoria placed herself in
a position in which she could be snubbed by
“the revered leader” of Mr. William
Nicholas Willis. There seems nothing for
it but to become Republican and Democrat
again. But, alas ! the Republicans and
Democrats would repulse him with scorn.
Ihe situation of a dog on a racecourse is one
of comfort and consideration compared with
that which Sir George Dibbs has managed
to reach. If the Democrats could get at
him, they would metaphorically hang him
with his riband. If Queen Victoria could
clutch him without loss of dignity, she would
have her cook chop his knightly spurs off
with a kitchen-cleaver.
# - # *
We do not, of course, vouch for the ac-
curacy of the cabled information, and if that
information be not correct, the comments
founded on it must be considered as withdrawn.
The statements which, in official circles, are
opposed to Sir George Dibbs’ account of his
enforced knighthood, simply represent him
as hungry for as much distinction as he could
coax Royalty into granting. It is asserted
that at Warwick, being diplomatically
sounded by one of the Prince of Wales’
hangers-on, Mr. Dibbs bit like a shark ; was
willing to accept anything, provided he were
personally invested by the Queen, but
wanted a big bait. A Privy Councillorship
was suggested by him, or a Knighthood of
the Bath. Something extra swell. Your
common aspirant might be caught with
a Michael and George, but a Re-
publican was entitled to more, when it
came to barter. The haughty and reluctant
statesman who had intimated to Lord
Knutsford, in respect to a Commandership
of Michael and George, that he wanted
nothing “of that kind’’—the Republican
who had declared, inferentially, that a title
was a “self-gratification ” which he was pre-
pared to deny himself, simply tried to drive
a bargain when it came to the point, if Eng-
lish official circles are correctly informed,
and when he was refused a seat at the upper
tables of the decorated order, humbly betook
himself to mumble the broken meats offered
him below the salt. Alas for “ the first
Australian Republican Premier ! ”
Flinching at Their Own Laws.
It is comforting that every time the New South
Wales Legislature has passed a flogging law, a
Minister responsible for the execution of it has
shewn that he is ashamed of it and afraid of its
effects if fully carried into practice. This
happened after the passing of Sir Alfred
Stephen’s Criminal Law Amendment Bill— a
measure tinctured with the Botany Bay old
convict times spirit of its aged author. No
sooner W'as that measure passed into law than
the then Minister for Justice, Mr. Cohen, felt
impelled to issue a circular to magistrates
exhorting them in effect not to act up to the
savage spirit of the Act, but to resort to flogging
sentences only in the most extreme cases. This
was in 1883. Next in 1890, during the maritime
strike, when a Sydney stipendiary magistrate
threatened from the bench to sentence to flog-
ing peace-breaking unionists brought before
him - and as the result of a day’s sport
by the specials then conducting a class
warfare he was pretty sure to have batches
from day to day—Minister Gould took fright
at the enormity of the thing, and confidentially
circularized the magistrates to the effect that
he was of opinion that the infliction of the
punishment of whipping would, during the
then disturbed condition of affairs, be very
undesirable. The present Minister for Justice,
Mr. R. E. O’Connor, not merely approved of
these circulars, when their propriety was called
in question in the Legislative Council lately, but
intimated his intention, if his proposed Hoggino-
law be carried, of issuing something of the" kind
himself.
* # *
The incongruity of the whole business
was exposed by Sir William Manning
and also commented upon by the Sydney
Morning Herald. Sir William pointed
out that the Executive has no right to in-
terfere with the discretion of the magistracy
in respect of the exercise of judicial functions.
The Herald goes further and intimates that
had circulars of like character been addressed
to the Supreme Court Judges, they might have
brought the Minister to answer a charge of
Contempt of Court. But neither Sir William
nor the Herald noted the real signification of
the interference. It did not occur to them that
such intervention was evidence that flogging
laws appalled responsible Ministers the moment
there seemed a prospect of their being carried
into effect according to their tenor. There can
be no suspensory power vested in the Executive.
An attempt to exercise such a power was
among the acts which cost James 11. his crown.
But a law which horrifies—and the unre-
stricted operation whereof would, in the case of
flogging unionists for breaches of the peace, lead
to a bloody civil war—should never have been
enacted, and should be wiped off the Statute-
book. If Mr. O’Connor apprehends that his
proposed flogging Bill will lead to abuses unless
he circularise the magistracy with an exhorta-
tion to be careful, he ought not to attempt to
pass a law so dangerous.
« « #
The fact is that the flogging laws go far
beyond the sentiment of the age. Our code is
more barbarous than our people. The day for
flaying the backs of offenders is nearly as obso-
lete as the day when flaying them all over
was tolerated. One process is just on a par
with the other. The character of the suffering
is little different in the two cases. It may even
be asserted that less agony is inflicted by flay-
ing with the knife than by flaying with per-
cussion by means of the whip. The one punish-
merit is just part of the other. Each 1 •
alike. The modern one commences to S i? lns
man by a process more atrociously savanc m a
the other, but is not carried so far r ,
victim’s body If flogging the back
deter—and it has been proved to fail tho-i i 0
principle demands extension. Instead * i
maximum of fifty lashes, give a tlimw , a
Instead of confining the flaying to the p ,
carry it on to the front, where it will i ’
more. Or, if even that fail, there arc n
thumbscrews, the boot, the rack, the wl 1( J
and a hundred other contrivances, cone* ! 1
with an ingenuity truly devilish, but
spirit no wise different from that which a
dams the torture by flogging. These
laws are but survivals of the days when com? y
men were regarded by the nobles as bn.?
beasts, and unless reason and decency Drpv ,.?
over ignorance and callousness, will herb?
not be expunged from the Statute-book min
some hardy magistrate of democratic tendenc?
cause a lustful Judge, or rowdy millionaire S
stand at the triangles with ids broadcloth in !
little heap beside him, and feel the smart on •
smooth hide. Then will all broadcloth
ermine become sensible of the enormity 0 f \i
law, because no man can tell when an hour ?
passion may betray him into an offence H
violence or animalism, and then at last tl
pages of blood and brutality will be torn from
the Statute-book, The lash is a punishment
designed only for the Offender in workman's
garb. It is never applied to anyone else.
Socialism up to Date.
One day last week a number of “ representative
citizens” of Sydney assembled to felicitate
«ew South Wales Railway Commissioner Eddy
upon his integrity and ability, and to present
him with that testimonial from which so very
few prominent men escape. They were “repm
tative,” chiefly because most of them were
rich, almost all were corpulent, and all were
more or less dull, Conservative, solemn ami
deficient in grammar. They belonged to that
heavy, plantigrade class generally described as
“ right-thinking persons the kind that‘is
solid upon the rights of property and the
necessity of resisting the destruction of the
ancient “landmarks.” There was not among
the crowd a single socialist, anarchist, repub-
bean, or other “disloyal” individual of any
kind or description whatever. In reply to
these felicitations Commissioner Eddy remarked
that the New South Wales tramway system
was now paying over per cent, on the capital
invested, that the railways, despite a great
outlay in improvements, paid more than .llper
cent., and that the profits in both cases were
steadily increasing, so that the Government
lines premised ere long to be a splendidly-remu-
nerativc investment. And then, having thrown
these facts and statistics off its chest, the meet-
ing separated. Nobody took occasion to remark
that the Australian railway system was really
the first great experiment at State Socialism
attempted anywhere within the limits of the
British empire, and that its success was an
effectual answer to the ponderous Conservatives
who denounce State Socialism as a chimera
and a delusion, and who wail about the alleged
Government stroke,” and the necessity for
“ private enterprise.” The heavy capitalists
present, after congratulating Commissioner
Eddy on his successful management of a vast
Socialistic enterprise, went away as sublimely
confident as ever that Socialism is hopeless, and
that those who advocate it are mere dreamers
grasping after an impossible millennium. The
thing is before them, yet they arc blind to its
existence.
* * •
, The one speech worth listening to at the
Eddy demonstration was the one which re-
mained unspoken. Condensed into a few words,
it should have run somewhat as follows ; “The
railway and tramway system is by far the
greatest single enterprise that exists in New'
South Wales. Experience has demonstrated
that it can be managed as effectively by the
State as by private speculators. Despite the
vast area and small population of the province
it produces better results than many of the
private lines in Britain, where distances are
shorter and population vastly more numerous.
It produces these results despite the fact that
it pays its operatives much better and works
them 40 per cent, less than the British com-
panies. If State Socialism can yield such a
return as this, then its success is already demon-
strated, and those who denounce it as a mere
chimera might as well declare that steam and
electricity are only figments of a diseased
imagination. If the State can be the sole
railway carrier of a great province, and can
conduct the work as profitably, as honestly,
and a thousand times more humanely than has
ever yet been done by private enterprise, then
the State can be the sole landlord, banker,' life-
insurance company, public trustee, and many
other things, with equal success. If it has
abolished private enterprise in railroad con-
struction, then there is no possible reason why
it should not also abolish the pawnbroker, the
publican, and many other equally costly varie-
ties of private enterprise, and replace them by
Government officers, who would do their work
at a vastly reduced rate, and yet leave a profit
for the State.” Such an oration would, doubt-
less, have made the hair of that respectable
gathering stand on end from sheer horror. Yet
it is the logical outcome of the situation. State
Socialism is coming, has come, and no one can
stop its progress.
'» * *
So far as it has been tried, the mucli-dc-
nounced, much-cursed system has produced
none of the evils which, it is confidently as-
serted, must attend its progress. The picture
of the pure socialistic state of the dim future
lias been often foretold. There is to be one
God—the majority. All mankind will live in
red-brick barracks, for the majority will decide
that no one man should occupy a better house
than another. The population shall he
arbitrarily fixed by the majority, and a
certain number of ' children shall he per-
niitled to be born each vear to keep np
the census returns to the prescribed standard.
All people shall dress alike in a sombre attire,
the cut and colour of which is decided by a
vote of the majority, in order to prevent


'nvidious distinctions. They shall be distin-
-1 nished by numbers, as names are an incentive
fo family pride, which is prohibited by the
majority, and shall eat and drink by a cast-iron
• ile and the human race shall be a dull, inert
mass of breathing flesh that only rouses up now
. n d then to go in a dull and cow-like fashion to
the poll and vote. There shall be absolute and
universal equality, with no incentive to am-
bition, no opening for genius, no energy—in
fact "enius and energy shall be prohibited by
the decision of the majority—nothing but a dull,
leaden, eternal monotony which shall go on till the
human race dies out from its own unchangeable
wretchedness. Everybody shall depend on a
central authority, and no one shall think of any-
thin 0 ' new under pain of the displeasure of the
only°god—-the majority. This is the favourite
ieture 0 f the socialistic state as it is to be ; and
meanwhile Socialism is regarded merely as the
creed of a long-haired, wild-eyed race that
heaves bricks and spells God with a small “g.”
# # #
Yet Socialism keeps coming all the time. The
Government railway systems of Australa-
sia are a standing evidence that it i£
coining, and that it intends to be a
success. The post-office and the telegraph
department are two more evidences that
the State can work great industrial enterprises
for the public benefit as cheaply and as effi-
ciently as they could be worked if the profits
went to a corporation of fat men with white
waistcoats instead of to the national treasury.
The Government Insurance Office in Maoriland
—probably the most distinctly socialistic State
at present existing—with nearly £2,000,000 of
accumulated funds, is another proof to the same
effect. Though a comparatively recent institu-
tion it shows better results than many offices of
far older date, and is enormously in advance of
any proprietary undertaking of its own age.
The Public Trust Office in the same province is
almost the only trustee of recent years that
hasn’t either bolted with the orphan’s patri-
mony, or fooled it away on land booming. The
perpetual leasing system, recently adopted by
the Balllnce Cabinet, is another step in the
same direction, its object being to retain all un-
sold public lands in the hands of the State for
ever ; and sooner or later, as the natural com-
plement of this measure, a scheme will inevi-
tably be formulated for the recovery of those
lands that have already been alienated, so that
the nation will be the sole ground landlord in
Maoriland from now till eternity. But though
Socialism is thus far advanced, humanity shows
uo signs of sinking to that dead level of utter
mediocrity which is declared to be the inevi-
table result, neither is it getting any nearer to
that state of dismal equality which is to be
achieved by selecting the individual who is but
one remove from idiocy as the national type,
and putting a ton weight of ponderous doctrine
on the heads of all others to weigh them
down to the appointed level. Socialism does
not mean equality ; it only means equal
opportunity ; and the Tory press which
denounces Socialism because equality is impos-
sible is as hopelessly adrift as if it denounced
Republicanism because it is impossible to get
butter from an ostrich.
# # # ■
Co-operation—which is Socialism on a smaller
scale—is on its trial, and so far it has been
reasonably successful. All the great Life
Assurance institutions of Australasia are so
many brilliant evidences that co-operation,
under equal conditions, can produce results
such as private enterprise has never yet
accomplished. The seven leading mutual
institutions of the country now possess aggre-
gate funds amounting to £16,000,000, and their
progress has been more rapid, and the benefits
conferred on their members far greater, than
those produced under any other system since
life assurance was first invented. In many
other enterprises, co-operation has met with
failures, but it has not failed half so badly as
capitalism has done. When some small co-
operative store has closed up through misman-
agement or glaring dishonesty, the ’Tory press
lias arisen as one rag to state that co-operation
always is, always was, and for ever will be, a
failure; when some 40 “banks” and land com-
panies, at least 80 large mining syndicates, and
about 100 leading business men, millionaires,
K.O.M.G’s, and politicians burst within two
years for an aggregate of many millions, it
never once got up on its hind-legs to demon-
strate that private enterprise is a fraud, a
swindle, and the last possibility in the
way of a delusion. Even now socialistic
enterprise is far ahead, and the most
vigorous and incessant misrepresentation is
unable to fully disguise the fact. It is
disguised to some extent by applying the term
“ co-operative ” only to the small institutions
which fail, and keeping it out of sight in the
case of the great ones which achieve a con-
spicuous success, but this is a feeble device,
and of little avail.
# # #
Even the existence of the State itself is
another proof in the same direction. If
private enterprise were—as it is claimed to
be—one of the essentials of success, then the
faxes should be farmed out to be collected by
private speculators, and separate tenders should
be called for from capitalists and syndicates for
the supply and maintenance of a police force,
an army and navy, and for the administration
°1 justice—the lowest tenderer to have tne
sole right of sentencing drunks and other
criminals and solving knotty law points for the
period of his contract ; also Cabinets should be
furnished in the same fashion ; and the Post-
office, the telegraphs, the railways and tram-
ways should be sold to syndicates, and the
whole continent should be run by private enter-
prise from the Gulf to the Southern sea. But
a lf these experiments have been tried in various
places and at various periods of history, and
found not only inefficient but utterly villainous.
Carthage had her army supplied by contract;
so had many of the states of mediaeval Italy
a nd Germany, and a hundred others, and they
. 1 burst in consequence. The idea of govern-
ing the country by tender is on trial to-day in
Morocco, after being practically abandoned
everywhere else, and the results are not
gratifying. No one wants to go back to
these experiments of the barbaric past : the
world lias had enough of private enterprise,
which has proved itself cruel, heartless,
oppressive, and, above all, a failure. Almost
every civilised Government is moving to re-
strict hours of labour, to protect the lives of
employes, to enforce sanitation in factories, to
prevent employers running the machine of State
by compelling the workers to vote to order
under pain of dismissal —and all of these things
are disguised Socialism because they are restric-
tions upon private enterprise, and they are all
rendered necessary because this aforesaid enter-
prise is not only brutal but ruinous. From the
restriction of enterprise to the absolute con-
trol of it is but a step. Socialism is coming,
and no power under heaven can stop it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dibbs-Davies Distinction.
The only notable achievement of Sir Henry
Loch’s career in Victoria was his obtaining of
knighthoods • for Matthew Davies and Ben-
jamin Benjamin. His Excellency, it was
surmised, had strong personal reasons for
exerting himself on behalf of those two land-
boom representatives. Anyway, he did push
their claims to “ greatness ” with such vigour
and success that Benjamin and Davies recip-
rocated by working up a diamond necklace, or
something of the sort, for dear Lady Loon.
The attempted evasion of the duty on that
hard-earned bauble was about the last social
event in which poor Bingy Bingy loomed large.
Then Sir Henry Loch went away for good,
leaving this pair of knighthoods as mementoes
of his reign. Even at the time it was remarked
that the sinful absurdity of the title system
had reached a climax in the cases of Davies and
Benjamin. The Age, if we remember rightly,
bewailed in a feeble strain the fact that
“democratic” Victoria had ever encouraged the
growth of knights upon its constitution instead
of taking American precautions against the
accursed disease. To-day there are cogent
reasons for asking why, in the name of thunder,
Loch’s friends should hold titular positions
apart from the ordinary Mister of everyday
life ? On the strength of their supposed
wealth, and of nothing else, they were created
Sirs, and the simple fact that they are borh of
them financially “ cronk ” is a sufficient con-
demnation of the abuse they typify, and a ludi-
crous exposure of its rottenness. The political
claim to knighthood is at least a tangible thing.
A Parkes or a Dibbs has done something better
than blow bubble companies and give banquets
before he presumes to hitch a handle to
his name. P. and D. are associated in
the public mind with sundry laudable
attempts to do something they considered good
for the community, and although they didn’t
do’em, or the results proved to be bad when*
accomplished, still the fact that Parkes, or
Dibbs, has legitimately pushed his way to the
front of political life prvna-fctcie makes his title
appear a tawdry compliment to himself, rather
than an insult to our common manhood. If each
Premier were knighted as a matter of course,
the prefix “ Sir” would be but a harmless re-
minder that he had taken the highest degree in
the university of Parliament, nor would one
begrudge his “Lady” her little mark of dis-
tinction as a Premier’s wife. The cash quali-
fication for knighthood, which enables the
gaudy snob to obtain a State license for
snobbery is peculiarly hateful—hateful whilst
the knight retains his qualification, and
ridiculous into the bargain when he files his
schedule, or is accused of having made his
money by unknightly means. It may be pre-
tended that Matthew Davies and Benjamin
Benjamin were singled out for distinction on
account of their official standing -the one as
Speaker of the Assembly, and the other as
Mayor of Melbourne. Not at all. Neither of
them had earned a reputation for anything
higher, or more worthy of respect, than his
money. The cash and the knighthood were
cause and effect. The cause has collapsed, but
the miserable effect remains. And this is not
a trivial circumstance which the common sense
public can afford to treat with contempt, as
some would maintain. There are good radical
objections to seeing the ex-chairmen of the
Mercantile Bank and Imperial Banking Co,
dignified by the title of “ Sir.”
■+.
Topsy-Turvey Protectionists.
A deputation of woolscourers and fellmongers
recently waited on the New South Wales
Treasurer to beseech the imposition of an
export duty of Id. per lb. on sheepskins and
greasv wool, arguing that if all this raw
material were kept in the country there would
scarcely be enough local labour to perform the
work of conversion into material ready for
further manufacture. The presumption is, of
course, that the foreign buyer would cease to
come to Australia for greasy wool and would
wait for the scoured article. Let us suppose
the duty imposed and that the foreigner has
accepted the situation. The next move, as a
matter of course, will be made by the manu-
facturers of leather and woollens, who will re-
quire an export duty on scoured wool and cleaned
skins with the plea that they will employ also
all the labour in the country ! It wdl have
been already absorbed by the fellmongers and
woolscourers, but that is a mere detail. Their
industrial request will be, of course, based on
the commercial presumption that all the locally-
manufactured material would find internal
markets, or, that not finding them, Austialian-
made leather and woollens can compete success-
fully with cheap-labour leathers and woollens
in the world’s markets. Now, it is not more
abundantly evident that our manufactures
cannojb now so compete than that the output
would be immeasurably in advance of internal
consumption, so far ahead that it would not
pay to sell abroad at reduced rates the surplus
remaining after internal demands were satisfied.
That being so, it becomes evident that the im-
position of a duty on prepared wool and skins
would not foster internal manufacture of leathers
and woollens, any more than t he proposed duty
on greasy wool and unprepared skins would
encourage local fellmongerihg and wool-scour-
At the same time, it is abundantly evident
that such action would crush out the parent
pastoral industry faster than the absorption of
land for agricultural purposes gives warrant,
while by no means lessening the purchasing
power of raw material to the local buyer. The
virtue of protective fiscalism lies in the imposi-
tion of import duties. A tax on imported
leathers and woollens, fostering their local
manufacture, would necessarily encourage the
local preparation of the materials to supply
the factories thus established. This is true and
natural Protection ; the export duty monstrosity
belongs to the topsy-turvey variety.
Virtue assumes many forms, and some of them
are surprising. There are, in Knoxville,
Tennessee, a number of persons, presumably of
pure life, whose horror of immorality is so over-
powering that they have felt it their bounden
duty to put down that form of vice with a
vigour, and by a means which should carry joy
to the hearts of J. C. Neild and the Hon. R.
O’Connor. Their Act for the suppression of
vice has been happily wedded to the lash. It
may be objected by hypercritical people that it
was, perhaps, scarcely proper and modest to
strip a mother and daughter to the waist, and
there may be sentimentalists (sympathisers
with crime, of course) who consider the employ-
ment of the lash, especially on women, brutal.
But these are mere hysterical refinements.
Vice and crime must be put down with a strong
hand and a good whip. There are, perhaps,
inconveniences in this rough and ready method,
butitwill work out allright. Sexual irregularities
are not the only form of vice. Persons of cold
constitutions and great propriety in that par-
ticular are sometimes prone to other faults.
They have been known to thieve, for example,
and to cheat. But if bands of persons who are
innocent of one form of wickedness will under-
take to strip and flog others who are sinful in
that respect, there will be established a mutual
check which must end in stamping out all faults
whatever. We hope soon to hear of a band of
Black-caps —persons immoral but honest—visit-
ing the homes of short-weight grocers and
watery-milkmen, of correct life in other re-
spects—and stripping to the waist the young
ladv who helps behind the counter, and her
mamma who ladles out the milk, and flogging
them. Then the drunkards, enrolled into a
Red-nose Society, could whip the fashionable
dames and maids who are wickedly extravagant
in dress, and the Blue-ribbon Society could flog
the drunkards, and so on all round until joy
and peace reigned supreme in Tennessee—and
elsewhere.
♦
The Tory majority in England at the recent
general election was 71. This is at the time of
a Liberal triumph ; at any other time it would
be much more. England always returns a lory
majority ; Ireland, Scotland and Wales supply
the democratic and progressive element. These
three countries, for many years past, have pain-
fully and laboriously dragged dull, somnolent,
abject, squire-and-parson-ridden England along
the track of progress, like three pigmies
dragging along a dead and festering giant. But
for them there would be no Liberal party at
all; the old Whigs, who were duller and more
bull-headed even than the modern Tories,
and the old original Tories, who were almost
as ignorant and bigoted as the Spanish
Inquisition, would be still to the fore. Also,
but for them there would be no Ballot Act,
no suffrage worth speaking of, no compulsory
education, no religious equality, and the old
hanging laws would still be in full blast, and
the State Church would go on for ever. Eng-
land is incurable in her hog-like stupidity- in
her ass-like patience—in her grovel to the
Queen and the bishop and the squire ; she has
always to be shoved along by main force ; she
is the Bumble among nations—the Chinaman of
the West. Instead of waking up she is growing
more petrified, and if the Home Rule move-
ment removes the Irish and Scotch contingents
from Westminster then her dead weight will
make the Imperial Parliament sink down with a
thud and remain aground for many years.
—;
Agonised howl from Sydney Echo :
The cheers which greeted Sir George Dibbs’s assertion
last night that the MTvixley Tariff had killed the tinplate
industry of England, and thrown thousands of men out of
work, afforded strong evidence of the innate savagery and
intense selfishness engendered by a belief in protection.
If it be true that the action of the American Congress has
caused thousands of men to be thrown out of work in
England, that should scarcely be a reason tor rejoicing.
The workers of England have just as much right to con-
sideration as those of America or Australia, and it is a
savage feeling that prompts these expressions cf delight
at the news that artisans have been reduced to poverty.
“The innate savagery engendered by a belief
in Protection ”is good. If the Foreign-trader
cheers now-a-days, it is because his policy of
freedom is advancing with giant strides, &c.,
«&c., and if the Protectionist cheers, it is because
of “ innate savagery.” Which reminds us very
much of the British war telegrams in which a
successful battle, with 5000 niggers killed, is a
“ glorious victory,” and a defeat with 100
Britons sent to Kingdom Come is always a
“ brutal and relentless massacre.”
From Sydney Daily Telegraph leading article,
September 16 :
Mr. Reid’s great advantage lay in the fact that he wa s
dealing with a Government which has never obtained, o 1 ’
been able to obtain, any popular warrant for its existence-
Every time that the party led by Sir George Dibbs
appealed to the people for the right to occupy the
Government benches they have been unsuccessful. Every
time the policy with which they are identified has been
put before the country at a general election it has met
with equally emphatic condemnation. . . . This is a
matter which the country cannot afford to forget, and
which the “diddled, damned, and done-for’’ little clique
of backsliders who give the Government their majority
cannot afford to remember. . . . Sir George Dibbs
. . . entirely misrepresented and caricatured the
public opinion of this colony. . . . The dead silence
with which Sir George Dibbs’ account of this unprece-
dented transaction was received by the House indicated
simple stupefaction on all sides. What the division will
indicate after last night’s display it is impossible to pre-
dict.
From the same paper’s leader of next day :
Good government is the best of all government. It is
higher than any question of policy. It is higher than the
rival merits of Freetrado and Protection. It is higher
than the foreign “ mission ” of a travelling Premier ortho
principle of taking money unauthorised!}' from the Trea-
sury. The maintenance of law and order is the first and
last reason for the existence of any Government, and
there are crises when all other considerations should give
way to this. We would a thousand times rather support
an honest Protectionist Government than a weak and dis-
honest Preetracle Government, and we believe the majority
of the Opposition, although pledged to Freetrade and
esteeming their fiscal principles as of high importance,
would be prepared rather to maintain the present Govern-
ment in existence as long as they administered fairly and
firmly the laws which safeguard personal freedom than
turn them out of office for the purpose of bringing in men
who would truckle to the passions and lawlessness of an
excited mob.
Which means that in the interval between these
two articles, the Government put a massive
foot down on the strikers at Broken Hill, and
there is no certainty that the Opposition would
jump on the aforesaid strikers with anything
like the same vigour. Therefore, so long as the
Dibbs-Babton Cabinet helps along the Broken
Hill mine-owners, the Telegraph will overlook
the fact that it has “ no popular.warrant for its
existence,” that it is supported by a “diddled,
damned and done for clique of backsliders,” that
its doings are a cause of public “ stupefaction,”
and all the rest, and boost up the “ honest Pro-
tectionist Government ” for all it is worth.
Now that the New South Wales Legislature is
again in session The Bulletin rises to ask, for
the third time, or thereabouts, what redress
that august body proposes to grant to Smithers,
the newspaper-proprietor, who was ruined a
few months ago either through the inefficiency
of New South Wales law or the want of spine
on the part of a Supreme Court Judge to
enforce his decision. Smithers’ case is already
tolerably familiar. He bought, for a sum of
£2600, a country newspaper, the vendors being
bound by the terms of the sale not to rummy
rival Journal within a certain specified radius.
Notwithstanding this they presently estab-
lished, or helped to establish, another paper in
the same town. The Court promptly recognised
the injustice done to Smithers and granted an
injunction against his two rivals, of which docu-
ment they took no notice whatsoever, but simply
jumped on the Supreme Court’s injunction.
Their actions, in fact, amounted to an intima-
tion that the Court might go to perdition.
Apparently the Court rather liked this treat-
ment than otherwise ; in fact, so much did it
enjoy being kicked that it refused, on Smithers’
application, to enforce its decree, but told that
unfortunate litigant that he might, if ho chose,
apply for a second injunction. He got the
second injunction, and the defendants, meta-
phorically speaking, trod on that legal paper
with both feet, and went on as before. The
Court couldn’t see its way to enforce the second
injunction any more than the first, but the legal
decree “lay in the office” in a manner that
was eminently gratifying to Smithers, and that
unfortunate plaintiff was invited, on applica-
tion, to get a third one on the chance that it
might bring him better luck. He obtained a
third injunction at great expense, but as
the Court didn’t enforce it either the results
were just the same as before. Then
Smithers was informed that he could have
a fourth decree, if it wanted it, and probably
he might have got a hundred of them if his
money had held out, but being already ruined
by the cost of three injunctions he became bank-
rupt, and departed penniless. To the ordinary
lay understanding the system of taking money
for valueless injunctions is quite as unjustifiable
as the system of taking money for valueless
cheques, and the State ought, in common
honesty, to refund the legal expenses incurred by
Sm ithers in obtaining the three worthless pieces
of paper which brought about his destruction.
Also, it ought, if it knows how, to fix up some
kind of an injunction for future use which
will produce some effect, however slight, on the
person it is aimed at, and which won’t bank-
rupt the person to whom it is granted.
The New South Wales Trades Disputes Con-
ciliation Acthasn’tconciliatedanybody asyet, but
a very junior barrister has been appointed Clerk
of Awards at £4OO per annum—there are no
awards in prospect as yet, but the salary goes
on all the same ; also a messenger has been
engaged at £lOO a year, and. as there is no
public business for him to run messages about
just now, he will probably come in handy to
fetch sandwiches for the Clerk of Awards.
Further, an office caretaker has been appointed
—salary not specified—to scrub out the offices
where the business will be done when there is
any business to do; and it is announced that
there is a clerk looming in the near future
at £225 annually. The rest of the officials
will be appointed five at a time by-and-bye,
but the present batch is enough to damn all the
Conciliation Acts that were ever invented.
When the Conciliation Department gets fairly
afloat, conciliation will be a lot more expensive
than strikes, and as the Act isn’t compulsory,
the parties to the dispute will generally have
the conciliation first and the strike or the lock-
out afterwards, and will have to pay for both
of them. As Parkes once truly remarked,
whenever a humble public servant is put in a
room by himself with a table, a chair and a
half-sheet of foolscap, and left alone for a year,
he inevitably blossoms forth into a department
with a head clerk and twenty assistants.
“ Colonel Hobbs,” said to be representing the
Sydney Morning Herald and Sydney Mail,
has just dazzled Cooktown, N.Q., with a lecture
in favour of undiluted slavery, as it existed in the
Southern States of America before the war.
Presbyterian Parson M‘Do well sponsored the
Colonel on the platform, and Hobbs gave him-
self Splendid testimonials as a genuine American,
“a traveller, observer, journalist, scholar,
thinker, writer, orator, combatant, teacher,
lawgiver, philanthropist and Christian!” Hobbs,
according to the statement of a Bulletin cor-
respondent and local reports, declared that the
Southern States slave-owners gave their niggers
civilisation, education and religion, and made
them happier than they have ever been in a
free state. He averred that the negroes en-
joyed being sold by auction, and regulated
their social status by the price they fetched !
The lecture was, of course, construablc as an
off-side argument in favour of the Kanaka
kidnapping game now in legal vogue in Queens-
land, and, as such, can be welcomed. It is
downright honest, anyway. The Kanaka traffic
is slavery, and, if it can’t be abolished in any
other way, it will have to be wiped out in
blood, as was the slavery of the Southern States
of North America.


Mrs. Beeton says: “Claret should be
sound, fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Xnnes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. 6d., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clarets, and they are only one-third of the
price.
Safe robberies in Sydney. Between
Saturday and Monday morning another theft
occurred at the S. T. and O. Company’s office in
Macquarie Place. The burglars successfully
opened one “safe” (small thin iron box would be
a better name) and tackled another but were dis-
turbed. The officials found the papers and docu-
ments all littered about and the place thoroughly
ransacked. The public should trust no longer to
the police and so-called “safes” when complete
security from fire and theft is available in the
Sydney Safe Deposit. *
[?]
81C Macquarie-streel North, Sydney, Sept. 21, 1892.
•'lv Dkar Moorarixda,—
T fe .Mayo.- of Sydney's ball (the Mayor, entre nous,
ree:ns to be the only man who gets tin credit for giving a
ball —the ordinary individual’s wife is given all the
personal advertisement arising from any frivolous pro-
ceedings of the sort) last Wednesday was almost too
1 trottie. One wants to cull all the dictionary words of
the pantomime-agent to express one’s admiring thought.
The Town Hill was charmingly concealed (only inside, of
course) with festoons of greenery, banana-trees, palms,
and Russian wreaths, and the buffet in the vestibule and
tae supper in the cellar were done en ftviiic (I saw a man
who ought to know close bis eyes in heavenly ccstaey over
a glass of fizz), except that the minion who showed you
“ this way out ” made one feel rather like a tallied sheep.
The Government House people presented a very twink-
ling aspect owing to their diamonds—Lady Hopetoun’s
leading all the way. Lady Jersey wore a primrose
brocade made with a postillion bodice, and panels of gold-
spangled tulle, diamond necklet and headlet (by the way,
we have never seen the Countess wearing a coronet here—
did she forget to pack it ?) Lady Hopetoun (she dances
a mere square with the same solemnity with which she
would face a martyr’s stake, it seems to me) wore a plain
skirt-front of black, worked with tiny gold heads trimmed
with gold galon ; derai-train of black silk—the bodice
with top folds and large orange sleeves of geranium-pink
velvet and bands of the velvet galon ; black feather fan
and brooches, necklace and coronet of magnificent
diamonds. Lady 11. certainly did look very fetching.
Lady Norman’s turn-out was a strawberry-jam-coloured
brocade combined rather dejectedly with black lace and
pink ostrich feathers Mrs. (Mayoress) Manning, the
hostess, wore a pale-green brocaded silk gown with folds
and large puff sleevelets of dark-green velvet; chatelaine
and ruche round the hem of mignonette ; diamonds. Miss
Manning was in pure white, and her younger sister in
Hr wberry-pink, high-necked and long-sleeved. Mrs.
Walter Hall, in stiff ivory brocade and chiffon, sported a
dazzling diamond necklace; Mrs. Sydney Burdekin,
slimly fitted in black merv, also wore the Faust-
suggestive jewels. Miss Burdekin was in black:
Mrs. George Brock wore a plainly-made old-rose-
coloured Inngaline gown; Miss Marcia Cox was in
cream brocade and a spring green belt. Madame Char-
bonnet Kellermann, white satin and tulle trimmed with
snowdrops ; Myra Kemble’s gown was a spring poem-
creamy silky stuff with little violets scattered loosely all
over it and made with watteau hows and bands of violet
leaf-green ribbon ; skirtal hem, a foot deep, of Russian
violets, which alsi appeared on the bodice; diamond
necklace. Mrs. (Judge) Wilkinson wore black silk, lace,
and velvet combined with primrose satin and yellow
ostrich feathers ; Miss Ada Fishery sported electric-grey
armure and galon.
Metrop. day at Band wick was another sartorial success,
and the flutter of prismatic petticoats on the “ membahs”
put the jockeys’ jackets quite iu the shade. Mind you,
these honeyed generalities don’t reach as far as the
Governor’s box on the grand stand. There we had Lady
Jersey (whose frequent tourings don’t benefit her outside
appearance one bit), in an ordinary mulberry gown with a
watte iu bow and a tight-fit bodice, which is quite the
wrong style for the slight frame of Sydney’s leading light.
Lady Norman came forth in a black cambric skirt
peppered with mauve shamrocks, a black lace mantelette
with grey yoke and collar, and her Derby bonnet. Miss
Norman was subdued in dark green. Lady Hopetoun was
rather more attractive than these in a black velvet visite
rnd a touch of warm colour in her bonnet—but, bless
ny life, you could have shut your eyes and grabbed
with the certainty of catching half-a-dozen better-ap-
pointed women anywhere on the lawn. It has just
tppeared to mo that it must be rather outside form to be
stylish, else why is it that “their ladyships,” who can
mport the latest screamers from Paris if they choose,
sever by any chance wear the novelty of the moment ?
(f goffered sleeves cut bias are the very latest snip, the
awn may swarm with ’em, but never the Governor’s box,
which is, I know, providing a lovely excuse for the fairy
u last year's frills—but it won’t avail her. Society
mitates m’ lady in everything but the cut of her clothes.
Vanity is stronger than vice-regal precedent when it
comes to wearing the drapery of other days, thank good-
ness.
Mrs. Molyneux had an artistic dress of cream silk
flowered all over in half-toned pink and green, green
Umpire sash and rustic hat; Myra Kemble was workman-
like in fawn with a black fleck—full front of white silk
and a lace yaffle; Miss M‘Donagh contrasted flesh-pink
crepon, eau-de-nil silk, and tan lace very effectively; but
some of the gets-up were unfortunate. For instance, one
lady peacocked about in a badly-cut, cinnamon-coloured
coat with a collar like a coffee-grinder; and someone in
black velvet, with a black-and-white feather-boa, looked
somehow as nearly like a Spanish lien as anything could
outside a fowl-house.
New faces on the lawn on Metrop. Day belonged to the
Gaiety people. Lonnen, Wack-bvowed and pallid, and got
up like a rusty undertaker in a hard hat, explored the
lacecourse with Mice Pas Seul Lethbridge—wearing
powder-pink and a grey velvet circular cape. Addie
t'onyers was in purple velvet and a brown and purple hat.
Pretty perky Alice Learaar, companioned by a weird
infant in sepia accordeon pleats, sported a grey-blue
Cheviot checked with shaggy white checks and flecks of
tan—tan trimmings and hat en suite.
But most of the interest centred round Sir George'
Dibits, who has come back with much old-world polish
apparent about his hat and boots, and I would venture a
nnall amount that he learnt the—er—cordial way he has
»f conversing with lady friends from Albert Edward T
never remember seeing' Sir George such a howling swell.
In black, cap a pie, with a pink rose in his coat--a pair Of
diminutive field-glasses in a tan case, and a large cigar—
possibly the few last remaining whiffs of that historic
weed. The other point of human interest was Viscount
“ Villars,” Lord Jersey’s son and heir. He is just now a
weedy prospective earl, quite the image of his pa.
The most artistic little gown on the course was of cream
colour strewn with violets and leaves and trimmed with
bands of violet and green ribbons—rustic hat weighed
clown with violets. A girl in grey surah and crepon
trimmed with grey ostrich, grey gloves, gamps, and hat
exactly matching was too fearfully and wonderfully en
finite to be fashionable ; also a lady in blood colour with
large yellow spots was just the very image of a flayed
leopard, and another in red and black shot lines peppered
all over with glittering dust could have got an engage-
ment as a demon in any pantomime. And, then, I was
further aggravated by a fleeting glimpse of that undent-
ably pretty society girl whoso loveliness doesn’t extend to
her feel, but who will persist in wearing her skirts short
ail the same. By-the-bye, the Hon. Rupert Carington
turned up with Mrs. Rupert Carington in an ash-coloured
frock.
Quite the most fetching outfit on Steeplechase Day was
worn by Mrs. Willie Mitchell. It consisted of a Princess
robe of blush-pink crepon filling like a glove and trimmed
about the waist with bands of black jet, the sleeves
finished with gigantic shoulder-puffs of black velvet, very
small jam-pot bonnet en suite, black gloves.
the vice-regal party appeared as if sartorially played
right out, and seemed to rely principally upon their
shoulder-capes for effect. Lady Jersey’s cape was Indian
red ; Lady Ilopetoun wore a black skirt and a sap-green
cape figured in gold braid up the back, flat hat of green
and black; Lady Charles Scott was mournful in storm-
grey cheerfully relieved with black, hat to correspond :
and the Jersey daughterlets were the usual, putty-
coloured, little apparitions.
To sum up prevailing Spring fashions. Judging by
what preponderated at Randwick, the girl who balances a
tierce-looking hat (vaguely suggestive of a soup-plate)
trimmed with flowers to match your suit or not just as
you please awing or two and a bit of alleged real lace
and clothes herself in a tight, gamp-skirted Princess robe’
with an ungraceful, outline-spoiling shoulder-frill of stuff
or lace, and a liny' hem of something dark for choice
(because of dusty highways)-that girl is in the right
clothes-basket. Crepon is the favourite Summer stuff
and if you are very sure of the correctness of your taste
you can mix all the colours of a Xmas almanac in vour
frock and hat, if so disposed. Only, you must make sure
about Hie tasle first. Also, it’s rather swell to have a
distinct lining quite different from the rest of your rags.
A blue gown flapped and revealed a ssa-green lining, for
instance.
Sydney Metropolitan Liedertafel got through the last
concert of the season, in the new Masonic Hall, on 10th
inst., and a big complimentary-card-house encouraged the
warblers. There were one or two serious drags on the
harmony of the evening—the greatest being Honble.
Robert Huddle Doddle White’s congratulatory speech to
Conductor Hazon, as he gave the gifted Signor a golden
lyre (from the members) in a pitchfork manner, and much
more er than English. If there is a more painful
sight in the world than the spectacle of a talented nervous
man backed into a corner on a five-foot stage, while a fat,
red-haired Philistine in a boiled shirt reads patronising
flatteries him as he writhes—the world must be a
very awful place.
The vocal programme was spoilt by a fatal tendency
among the Liedertafelists to sing out of tune, unless the
amateur orchestra went with them. The final choral
waltz, with string accompaniment, was the star item, and
went with stirring swing, and the “Farewell of Catherine”
ran it a good second. Mrs. J. L. Turner, Miss Cicely
Staunton, Mons. Deslouis, and Signor Podenzana assisted
the society. Mrs. Turner (quite new to Sydney) has a
high, seedy' voice, not capable of much feeling, but which
training could develope surprisingly. Miss Staunton’s
best item was an air from “Tancrcdi ” —in her encore,
“ Annie Laurie,” hardly a note was sung to its full tone.
Deslouis scored a vociferous encore in the “ Midi-
Minuet” air, and in the “Air Bachique” his artistic pro-
duction and free play of voice has lots of scope. The
rival society—the Sydney Liedertafel—hold a concert in
Centennial Hall on 20th inst.
They are saying, somewhere, that if the imported
Englishwoman is going to fail in her principal stock-in-
trade—“ manners ”—it’s quite time protection extended
to intellectual commerce, and home cured talent had an
all-round chance. To drag an alien from a distant land
on the supposition that her “tone” was miles beyond
what could be procured on the spot—and then have her
reveal herself to be ten degrees more uncouth than her
environment, is a very stupid experience.
On dit that the daughters of a very great man indeed,
paid the distinguished author of their being a visit on his
birthday, but came all ready to fre.ze “that horrid
woman,” and snuff her out for once, at least. But the
Horrid Woman took the initiative—patronised them,
slapped them on the shoulder, and to one who kept
poker-backed all through these unexpected tactics,
adopted the anxious role: “I don’t think Eliza’s at all
well, dear—hadn’t she” (sweetly, this) “better go home?”
The disgusted daughters are still breathless from the
shock.
I protest against the custom which has obtained all
this season—at every Sydney public ball-erf obliging
people to stand in a ring while a dancing-master sets his
pupils going in some oullandish dance in the midst there-
of to the pupils' dire confusion. Nobody likes the idea—
except the floring-gallcry'tes, perhaps —and yet the
promoters of at least one public ball gave the dancers free
tickets and defrayed their carriage-hire !
Whether it’s because “ teacher ” has his or her eagle
eye on ’em, or whether the amateur is always hopelessly
pokerlsh, I can’t decide-but anyhow the meek, overclad
maidens who gambol in the manner aforementioned look-
ing as if they were counting their pas, and wishing they
were dead ail the time don’t make a ball the least bit
more attractive. It these green coryphees could only put
more snap into the tiling and—yes—get themselves up a
little hit! A performing pupil always has my deepest
sympathy, for she daren’t let herself go. Whenever I see
anybody doing that aggravating fancy-work where the
pattern is all punctured out beforehand, I always think of
the performing pupil.
Gazing at Mr. Steele’s oil-painting, “The Last Stand cf
Captain Starlight,” (on view at the Strand, Sydney) one
(this is my own opinion, and it simply shan't be sup-
pressed) sees Dick Marston depicted as a monster, and
“Rainbow,” as a well-groomed, corn-fed, English hunter,
surrounded by the light that very evidently failed the
artist. The whole thing is so fatally British that you
might almost pass it as “ The Young Squire’s pot-shot at
a poacher.”
I like the way Sir Henry Parkes wears his “order”—the
hand just showing half-an-inch above his dress waistcoat,
and the star pinned (probably with a nursery safety-pin,
but I really don’t know for certain) on to his coat collar
Sir George Dihbs hangs his round his neck allee same
as a baby’s teething-ring.
The ball in aid of St. Vincent’s Hospital was held in
Sydney Town Hall on Monday evening, and was graced
by a goodly gathering of humans topped off by Lord and
Lady Jersey, Sir Precedence and Lady Scott, and Mayor
and Mrs. Manning. Barring rather a plethora of girls in
short skirts, the ball was the usual normal thing. A very
fast floor (worked up with cream, which is the slipperiest
medium going), good music, legible rendezvous, flag-
decorated walls, and a rather rekerky eleven o’clock
supper—too good, by the way, for a charity dance. To
my way of thinking, the eleemosynary instinct ought to
be fostered on corned beef and pickles.
Seeing how the sand has slipped through the social
hour-glass, I wasn’t surprised at so much resurrection
froeking. Lady Jersey’s particular thrill was a pure white
brocade with panel of pearl and crystal beads on white
tulle, flight of diamond swallows in her hair, and diamonds
elsewhere. Lady Charles Scott (who is still in semi-
mourning) wore a plain gown of black net limply lit up
with mauve bows, and, of course, no jewels. Mrs.
(Mayoress) Manning wore sun-flower yellow brocade with
intervals of black ribbon velvet; Mrs. “Tom” Slattery,
in a very taking rig-out of white brocade trimmed with
lines of silver gimp, white plume fan—that was about all
the dais dressing.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty's “ Faust up to Date.”
Garrick “ Alabama Minstrels.' 1
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Piunckss-S “ The Lost Paradise.”
“A Village Priest.”
Alexandra ... “ My. Sweetheart.”
“ Faust up to Date ” is apparently good
for an indefinite period at Her Majesty’s (Sydney),
always provided tHe management doesn't take any
undue liberties with Alice Leamar’s ‘‘ Ta-ra-ra-
baoni-de-ay ” dance, Last week this item was,
for some reason or other, excised from the pro-
gramme for two nights, whereby the tenderest
feelings of the gallery were trodden upon with a
relentless hoof, and when the gods fully realised
the length, breadth and thickness of the out-
rage they rose and cursed in plain and
fancy Woolloomooloo. Evidently “Ta-ra-
ra-boom-de-ay ” has soaked into the great
soul of Australia, and any attempt to remove
it amounts lo_ amputation and sacrilege.
The only other visible change is that the second
act doesn’t drag quite so much as it did, and
Courtneidge improves to a certain extent upon
further acquaintance. The spectacle of the devil
in a summer suit singing a costermonger’s love-
song remains as unaccountable as ever. If the
devil does sing things of that sort, then anew
horror is added to the hereafter.
** * *
That good old Australian actor, Mr.
Charles Burford, took a matinee benefit at Sydney
Garrick on Monday, with better results than
might have been anticipated. Monday is generally
an unprofitable occasion for matinees, probably
because the depressing influence of the Day of
Rust is still in the air. The programme was the
usual patchy concern Which is considered the
correct thing at all benefits, and the principal out-
burst of enthusiasm was that evoked by the
appearance of that eminent politician, Levien,
M. L. A., in a comedy character which suited him
a great deal better than his other character does.
Mr. Burford made Ids “last appearance on any
stage ” as Shylock, in the trial scene from the
“Merchant of Venice,” with Miss Bensusan as
Portia; and later on he appeared before the
curtain and bade a final pathetic farewell to every-
body and everything. The net proceeds of the
show were about ,£100; if Burford had been a rich
man with a huge bank - account, they would
probably have been £250, but that is a mere
detail.
TF $
Max O’Rell returns to Sydney on October 3
to give six more “ farewell lectures. ” Alsoarumour
is still in the air that Emily Soldene will presently
revive the faded glories of the Opera House, but
no details are to hand. Sometime in November
Archie Meston proposes to let himself loose upon
Sydney with Ids troupe of aboriginal artists, after
which he will travel southward. Rumour assrirts
that this talented combination is at present
chained up in a back-yard somewhere in the North.
** * *
The dark shadow of another great joy
came upon Melbourne last Saturday. Miss
Maribel Greenwood, at the head of her clever and
talented company, fulfilled her fell promise to
appear at the “Haleck”ina grand production.
She might have appeared in something that wasn’t
grand, and have disappeared hastily without pro-
ducing her company, but she didn’t. Maribel
was remorseless. She had sworn to act “-My
Sweetheart” to the bitter end, and, dash it all!
she kept her oath. “My Sweetheart,’’as far as
a broken-up journalist could perceive through his
falling tears, is not quite the thing of yore. The
original narrative has been altered and adapted
by the Greenwood family for the Greenwood
family, and what was once a literary outlet for
Minnie Palmer’s stockings is now a horrid night-
mare. The recollection of a leading villain, named
Tony, haunts one’s waking mind after seeing this
show. There’s no fixing the age and sex of Tony.
Tony might be a mermaid with two wooden
legs, or a genuine bargain from a toy-shop. The
nondescript in question dances the saddest donblo-
shuflfie that ever escaped the wrath of Heaven,
and seems to bo in league with Miss Agatha
Greenwood. They sing duets together, and affect
to hide their and irk schemes behind a thin veneer
of innocent mirth. Sometimes Agatha obliges
with a solo. Yon can tell by her top notes that
she means to do something desperate, yet her real
reason for conspiring with Tony is never made
quite clear. Their costumes denote an intention
to raffle themselves at a church bazaar, or perhaps
they are fleeing from justice in strange disguises.
A gloomy old lady in the background may pos-
sibly know a good deal about it, but she per-
sistently drops her head when talking, and as a
medium of instruction this eerie party resembles
the sound of a voice that is still. Master Bob
Greenwood is also useless for explanatory pur-
poses, on account of his tender years, and blackentd
face, and general lack of meaning. Poor little
Bob-! Let us hope that ho always says his prayers
before going to bed —but no matter. The w, i
lies before him, and he has plenty of time f
repentance, anyway. Miss Maribel Greenwood •
the damsel that reaches the heart and supplier
comic relief to an otherwise mournful plot ou 6
assumes the part of a young female contortion;. t
whose bustle has been pawned by a drunken hnf
band. Grave humour is Maribel’s forte, ta’
sings the funniest ballads in the quaintest uoutW
pigeon sort of way, and drops the drollest rein nf
at almost impossible angles. Maribel’s method '*!
not in the least like Alice Leamar’s, but she pj*
there just the same, if not more so. Two or thr .!
other people pop their heads at intervals out Tt
the bag of mystery, and artist Grist has painted
gaudy rural scene for the occasion. Also Green' 1
away’s name is mentioned in the bill, although I
takes no active part in the performance, pm !'
stage-manager to the trouble, and sits, so to sncil-*
under the Greenwood tree.
** * *
Hamlet,” at the Princess’s, for two
nights only, gave Walter Bentley a chance topI HiV-
a few variations upon his earlier reading of il
Bard’s music. If some of these changes were for
the worse others were more decidedly f or th
better, and most of the auditors discovered t!
balance of difference in the actor’s favour. Bentler
has toned down his Scotch accent and become less
rugged and uncertain in his ways. The spirit of
Hamlet’s father was a trifle under-proof, but Miss
Marie Fraser did well as Ophelia, and
although much too clean about the face, distin-
guished himself whilst digging her grave. ’ After
Monday they reverted to “The Silver King” 011
the strength of irs free advertisement in the press,
and pulpit instead of ringing “The Bells” fop
“David Garrick,’ and the Bentley season i s
doubtless finishing with a flourish. On Saturday
(24th) the bloated capitalist and the hungry son of
toil will get an anxiously lookecl-for opportunity
to snort at “ The Lost Paradise.”
•:t- * # *
“A Village Priest” is ministering to the
souls of many who never thought about such
things until they took tickets for the Bijou.
Grundy’s beautiful play—beautiful because all the
characters are good, or wish to be, and human
because they are mostly unhappy at the finish-
lias caught right on. in the meantime, theatre-
goers have clone with comic opera and mere
frivolity. They roll up to be thrilled, and
chastened, and reminded of the worm that never
diet!), not by direct attack, but by inference ami
iuuendo. For “ A Village Priest ” doesn't climb
into the pulpit to snuffle, or pound the tc rewth out
of a crimson cushion. There is nothing in the
argument of the story to which the most
hardened sinner can object, otherwise the house
wouldn’t have been crowded again on Saturday.
You may talk seriously to the lost sheep
of this world, but they won’t pay their money to
be preached at. Familiarity breeds more and
more respect for the all round ability of the Bijou
performance. Abbe Titheradge is a nob'.e shep-
herd notwithstanding his skirts and white brolly.
Tith’s reputation for floriculture suffers perhaps
by his unsatisfactory watering of the plants in his
little garden, which is calculated to bring their
roots to the surface. He doesn’t seem to have
gone in for daffodils either, but these peculiarities
are consistent with the fact that he is troubled in
his mind. And so he ought to be. The number
of white lies that the Abbe tells in the first three
acts would make ev en an auctioneer feel uneasy.
Brough continues to wear the martyr’s crown,
as though his prison-cropped, grey head had been
measured for it, whilst Cecil Ward rises higher to
the occasion every night. Miss Homer, as the
blind mother, diffuses much sweetness and light,
and Miss Watt-Tanner is a stately, substantia!
penitent, who ought to bo came tly considered by
the uppah class of ladies. A faithful house-
keeper, with a savage desire to load up the Abbe
with omelettes, is Miss Bessie Major’s billet, and
the pair of unhappy virgins arc interpreted by
Mdlles. Brenda Gibson and Temple. The former
is always sympathetic, and the latter contributes
one heartrending shriek with a good deal of
natural force. Furthermore, the scenery gives
pleasure to all, and the Bible takes up its cue for
the miracle without fail.
»* * *
Apropos Herbert Standing’s snobbish and
spiteful attack upon Melbourne, in an interview
with the Ceylon Observer, the Argus,
by way of indicating that it could “crush”
the gentleman if it felt so disposed, speaks
of “ Mr. Herbert Crellin, alias Standing.”
Crellin’s family name is Stanley, however, so the
change of stage designation that he made in days
of old was almost an abandonment of the alias.
For the rest it is scarcely worth while to howl at
Crellin for speaking nastily of a people “who
seem to have an idea that they can repudiate their
debts.” Crellin, the tutor of young cubs at the
Pelican Club, is a perfect wag at repudiating
debts. When he went mashing Brown’s wife (the
lady who afterwards compelled him to elope with
her from the Lyceum stage-door) they used to con-
sume oysters by the gross at a certain fashionable
saloon. Brown had an oyster-account at this
place ; and as the “guilty pair” wore taking their
leave, Crellin would invariably saunter to the pay-
box and say, “ Haw! put them down to Mr.
Bwown.”—( Vide Police Nexcs.) Crushed !
Maggie Moore, after ten nights of “ Struck
Oil,” staged “Carrots,” at the Adelaide Royal,
on Wednesday night, but the change was not
appreciated by the public.
* * 35 *
Maggie Moore, by the way, will presently
take possession of Melbourne Royal for a fort-
night, and be giving them “Struck Oil ” at Cup
time. At Christmas .the old house is to try its
luck again with another pantomime “The
Babes in the Wood.” Meanwhile, W. & M.’«
“Forty Th ieves ” arc getting ready to crack the
Babes’ crib.
¥6 & * *
They anticipate exciting times with “The
Lost Paradise” at Melbourne Princess’. Trans-
lated from the German, this is a play of
“ The Middleman” variety, but more socialis-
tic in spirit. Boss Williamson thought thrice
before making up his mind (o prod me it m
the face of the Broken Hill strike. Last week,
however, he telegraphed Frank Emery from Syd-
ney to “ Go on with ‘ Paradise,’ ” since when the
stage-manager has been boosting “Paradise
along iu an exceptionally vigorous manner. Mel-
bourne is just now badly in want of some s'■.age story


TIEI IE
NEWYORK LIFE INSU RANGE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured,
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
°y er all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
nsurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
DRINK ONLY
LEFEBVRE & SONS’ Prize
Australian Wines equal to
best French and Spanish vintages. Sold at Australian
vinevard quotations. Offices and Stores: 529 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE, Vic.
Billiards. Cricket. Sports.
BURROUGHES & WATTS
(LIMITED),
BILLIAUU TABLE lIAOTFACTIKERS.
Cricket, Bowls, La Crosse, Lawn Tennis, and all
other Outdoor and indoor Sports.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS ON HAND.
/ Cloths, Cues, Balls, Tips, &c., &c.
Catalogues of Prices on application. Practical
and experienced Fitters available at any time.
Address: —
O Boiici Street, Sydney.
ẃ
At Poverty Point.
w
The musical critics of Sydney have been watching
Ovide Musin with suspicious trepidation. They have been
positively afraid of being equal to the detection of any
possible practical joke that might be played upon them
by a master of the violin. They feel that they couldn’t
guarantee to identify a little thing of Musin’s own, if he
substituted it for something that was down on the pro-
gramme as by Offenbach, or Chopin, or even the talented
Straddlebowhashky. Nothing is so profound as the
average musical critic’s technical ignorance. Musin,
however, says he has “ too much respect for the press ”
to do anything like that. However, he very plainly
showed his opinion of at least one section of the Sydney
press by his action in regard to a certain little request
made to him by a prominent ecclesiastic.
The Taylor-Carringcon Company are alleged to have
done the best business ever known at Normanton and
Croydon (Q.).
Coppin flings his gauntlet into the arena with announce-
ments about the forthcoming Melbourne Royal Panto-
mime.
Fitzgerald Bros’, circus has now played 22 weeks in
Melbourne and suburbs, doing large business all the time.
It will run for another month by the Yarra, and then
starts overland to Sydney, where it will arrive about
Xmas after enlightening the agricultural soul at all the
important towns along the road.
Lewis Wingfield’s posthumous article on the Aus-
tralian stage gives Pattie Browne a good puff—just in
time.
Grundy’s “Village Priest” is rather offensive to Mrs. G.
The Kendals have very recently refused an Australian
offer.
Brough’s convict, in “ The Village Priest,” is absolute
realism in look and ways—a man, though innocent,
steeped in gaol. He really looks as if he had walked
straight out of Pentridge, after twenty years’.
Lennen’s name is Champion.
Somebody’s penance for having given the best-adver-
tised English actress a pair of lovely black eyes took the
form of a splendid house in one of the fashionable parts of
London, furnished in most luxurious style. It must have
cost many thousands.
Mr. Atkinson (Fitts), the “ Australian Orpheus,” who
is quite a London “star,” will leave for Melbourne early
next year, the principal reason for his visit being to enter
into double harness with a daughter of the quondam
popular merchant prince, W. K. Thomson, to whom he
has been engaged for sometime. Atkinson makes about
£75 a week at the music-halls where he is a prime
favourite. On his return from Australia he will fulfil an
engagement in the United States, after which he will star
on the Continent. He has three years’ firm engagements
on hand. Better this than being a shipping-office clerk.
“ The Village Priest ” is refreshing at Melb. Bijou. The
quite overwhelming delight of the audience on the first
night seemed to indicate that they had got irritated by
the perpetual doses of farce.
The judge’s portrait, in “The Village Priest,” is in red
robes, ermine, and full-bottom wig, wherefore critics say
it is not French. But Spong’s art is not incorrect, in a
sacrifice to make the greatest impression on an English-
speaking audience.
Miss Vinoeni, violinist, of Rickards’ troupe, quite
startled the fashionables at Blascheck’s benefit. Any-
how, she suits the crowd as well as Bessie Doyle, and one
knows not why there should be so much wonder about
her being under the Rickards’ banner.
A newspaper controversy on the question whether a
Presbyterian parson had damaged his soul by going to see
“ Silver King ” gave a religious lift to the show at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, last week. It was a neat “ fake.” A
lamb-probably a spurious lamb—sounded an alarm to
begin with, and then the goats butted at “cant and
Puritanism ”in the old, old style. More lambs and fresh
goats took the field, and “Silver King” receipts rose
accordingly. About the artfullest letter was one signed
Dion Robertson (other name Boucicault, possibly) into
which the writer managed to squeeze an advt. for “ A
Village Priest,” at the Bijou. Strange to say there was
no contribution from the pen of Harry Rickards. What
an oversight! ’Arry should have waded in with a protest
against any slandering of the drama by clergymen and
others, who neglected to study the moral lesson of
“ Knocked ’em in the Old Kent Road.”
Frank Horrocks, aged 17, who is (despite
the merciful recommendation of the jury, based on
the prisoner’s extreme youth) to be hanged next
Monday, at Brisbane, for the murder of his mate,
Weismuller, is the son of a Government official of
long service who, according to the custom of our
civilisation, will, with all his family, socially die
on the same gallows as the assassin. It is an un-
pardonable thing for a Government to disregard a
jury’s recommendation.
The inevitable in N.S.W. politics is at last
assuming definite shape. The political bias of the
Dibbs Government in relation to the Broken Hill
strike, and the attitude not only of the present
Ministry, but of all past administrations in rela-
tion to social unrest, have at last operated so
strongly upon organised trades-unionism that the
Labour-party in Parliament is, as we write, being
compelled to consolidate its separated atoms and
to act unitedly. Leaving out all legal considera-
tions, the action of the Dibbs Government in
ordering the arrest of the Broken Hill strike
leaders is regarded by The Bulletin as an un-
paralleled political blunder, to be followed by a
bitter and enduring aftermath. Practically ten
thousand men have been out of work for three
months, yet the records showed a less percentage
of offences than under ordinary circumstances.
Almost the only act of violence worth men-
tion was the brutal assault committed by a
banker, armed with a deadly weapon, upon the
leader of the strikers, now in gaol. Yet the
Government could not leave well alone—could not
recognise the fact, that no strike in the world’s
history had ever been so peaceably conducted—
could ” not recognise that the human mouth
is a safety-valve and that wild talk is cheap
and mostly harmless. The political issue
is now being fissured cleanly into one defi-
nite chasm, that which divides Labour, not
from Capital, but from Capitalism, the lead-
poisoned worker from the gilded mining-
gambler, the bled from the bleeder, the enduring
patient from the absorbent leech. As it has
happened in N.S. Wales, so will it occur all over
the world. The future of politics will be a direct
struggle, divested of side-issues, between the
wages-slave, gagged and bound by the parchment
swathings and red seals of centuries of iniquitous
legislation, and the privileged classes, defended in
their falsely acquired prerogatives by the same
meshes of subtle and hypocritical law-craft, which
prerogatives have been only tenable by the
armaments paid for and sustained out of
the entrails of the very wages-slaves for whose
destruction they were invented. A spider spins
its web from its own entrails, but it is a web
destined to secure its food-prey; the human
worker has been spinning from his entrails a web
for his own earthly damnation.
The Wild Cat Column.
ŵ
ill the £. Sixty were under 6s. in the £. No wonder
Brisbane Chamber of Commerce wants it made law that
no insolvent shall obtain his discharge under 7s. 6d. in
the £. Exactly 300 fresh insolvencies were filed in
Bananaland in ’9l; average assets (on paper), £358;
average actual liabilities, £656.
* * *
The S.M. Herald's mining commissioner, in a
series of dry-as-dust articles, seems trying to prove that he
never worked in any mine in his life. He lately said of Ml.
Stewart that the mine is worked at a profit without show-
ing what the profit is. £1 a week would he a profit. By
the way, what has become of that dividend which months
ago the Sydney Sunday mining-tipster so strongly urged
the directors not to pay “till next month,” when they
would be able to pay them monthly? Here is something
whicli does not appear in the Herald’s two columns on
Mt. Stewart—that no mine having to pay £5 a ton for
coke can, under Mt. Stewart’s circumstances, pay
dividends with silver at 3s. 2d. an oz.
* # *
Again we ask what is the reason for the inces-
sant publication of high assays from the Mount Stewart
mine in face of the fact that the weekly returns from the
80-ton smelter apparently average under 20ozs. to the ton?
* *, *
A Pambula man wants to know “ something
more ” about the Mount Gahan, and speaks about the
recent resignations of the mining manager and secretary
of the Cos., and the unloading of shares by directors. We
are sorry we cannot oblige him ; we want to know some-
thing ourselves. It is very little, simply : Has the ore-
body much diminished in size and quality in the deeper
levels? and, if so, what is the reason for the erection of a
20-head battery ? The shares have fallen to ss.
9 # •
The three lessees of the. Lackey mine, at Dark
Corner, a lease of five acres not far from Sunny Corner
(N.S.W.), have just realised £936 145., from 2560 z. gold
taken from (so they say) 400 tons quartz, the result, it is
claimed, of four months’ work. Last year, the partners
divided £ISOO. They have had thelease 10 years. Their main
shaft is 350 ft. deen, and they have two drives of 300 ft. each.
The reef varies from 9 inches to 13ft., and the returns have
ranged from ISdwt. to 3oz. per ton. An additional area
has just been taken up. The “go slow” principle pays
when mining is bona-fide.
* * *
The St. George’s Reef gold-mine, the prospectus
of which is out, appears to offer a fair show. The favour-
able opinion of Gleadow, a cool-headed mining-manager
who was one of the first to pronounce Taranganba a
duffer, counts for something.
# # *
It would seem that the Mt. Morgan Cos., not-
withstanding their extensive plant of chlorinating barrels,
is going to revert to the old system of vat chlorination,
which was generally abandoned throughout the world
when the newer process was discovered. Experience,
however, has exposed its disadvantages, the principal of
which are slowness and surcharging. Many of the Russian
mines have gone back to the old vat system.
it # *
It makes one tired to read nearly every week in
the Sydney papers that 50 or 60 bags of ore have been
shipped from a certain Pambula mine, that 40 or 50 more
have been classified, and so many more added to stock.
These bags of ore weigh about jcwt. ; it requires 40 to
make a single ton. Why not use 101 b. bags, and when a
ton is shipped proudly announce “ forwarded 224 bags of
ore.” Little wonder that N.S.W. gold-mining is the
laughing stock of Bendigo and Charters Towers.
* * *
Slabs of solid gold unencumbered with quartz
are occasionally found in the clay vein of the Golden Gully
mine, N.S.W. Two weighing together between 60 and
70ozs. have been found during the last month ; the bigger
piece, weighing 48 pzs., the manager sent down to Sydney,
and is the finest sample of solid metal we have seen.
These, however, are few and far between, and this
fact, together with the bitter experience of the past and
the comparative absence of mining-gambling, causes the
public to keep away from the shares. Four years ago the
writer predicted big th ; ngs for this mine. Thousands of
ounces, mostly in such bonanzas, having since been
unearthed, the Cos. is strong financially, and it is still a
reasonable conclusion that the main source of these big
hunks of gold will yet be found in the property.
# m *
Now that Matthew Davies and ex-manager
Millidge are telling two different stories from opposite
ends of the world, Mercantile Bank shareholders may
begin to strike a balance of information as to how the
money went, why the money went, and where the money
went to.
# * *
In the good old mining days of South Australia
there flourished a hardened expert named Truskett. He
was also a prospector and was on the Woodside mines.
Some miners conceived a little scheme to dupe Truskett,
who was an innocent old buffer. They got hold of some
quarry-stone, soaked it well in kerosene, and, colouring
it black, sank it about six feet in the ground. Then they
“laid” for Truskett, and stuffed him with yarns re the
possibility of finding coal. After learned remarks about
“ indications,” they unearthed the doctored specimens
and placed the “coal” on the fire. Of course there was
a bit of a blaze, but there was something more. There
was an explosion, and one of the jokers was sent up the
chimney whilst another went out through the window.
Truskett had heard their little scheming and had played
his practical joke. It was risky, but, then, Truskett was
a most eccentric man.
• • •
Wadnaminga (S.A.) goldfield is being boomed
parliamentarily. The latest assertion is that it is
capable of furnishing employment to several thousand
men,
* * *
A Victorian Legislative Councillor bluntly
declares that liquidators are at present appointed for no
other reason than their impecuniosity. He “ knows of
one company in which a former director is liquidator, and
still holds the post and draws his salary, although he has
become insolvent.” But though the air of Melbourne
reeks with these financial scandals, not a word is ever
likely to be said about them in the Assembly.
# * *
The trustees of N.S.W. Savings Bank have
increased the rate of interest on renewed advances to 6
percent., which is rather stiff considering that the bank
(very properly) confines its advances to 50 per cent, on the
assessed value of securities.
* * *
The Waihi mine, Thames, Maoriland, has for a
long time been turning out from £3OOO to £4OOO worth of
bullion per month, consisting of gold and silver. The
principal owner is Sir Thomas Russell, and the obstacles
of treatment at profit have been surmounted.
# # *
In the forty years between 1792 and 1832 the
Bank of England estimated its profit upon notes lost or
destroyed at £1,330,000. Since then the note circulation
has increased enormously, and—presumably—the profit
has increased likewise. It would be interesting to know
bow much the Australian banks make from this source.
The fiver is the smallest note used in England, audit
never gets into general use among the masses, most of
whom never see and hardly ever hear of such a curiosity
—therefore, its chances of being lost or destroyed are
limited. But the dirty, offensive £l-note which forms
the chief currency in Australia must go adrift very fre-
quently; the bnshman—named Bill—who dies of thirst
and is eaten by dingoes, must alone account for enough of
them to make a decent dividend.


When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolfe’s Sohnapps takes the lead.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
Use Batho’s Baking Powder,
UFf
vv.
WEAR-pga^
i D 111? 0 C«
*0
<5-
■Kr-«
PAMPHLETS, ILLUSTRATIONS and FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLTOATTON
FROST & SHIPHAM,
462, 474 Ei 587 George Street. Sydney.
SOX.IE AGE3STTS POli AtTSTBALI
W ADVICE UK EE.
Personal Items.
R. S. Smythe edited a Deniliquin (N.S.W.)
squatting paper in ’GO.
F orbes suggests that Napoleon 111. and
Eugenie were both illegitimate.
A firm of Sydney solicitors well known in
politics is about to dissolve partnership.
A niece of Gladstone and her six children
are caretakers of empty houses in Brighton, Vic.
Ihe boast of the latest foundered land-
weak ° r aw ‘W s ias een that he began on 30s. a
Uncle Booth ” is the latest name for the
rope with the pelican nose and the illustrated
shirt.
Sir Bingy Benjy, of Melbourne, has a
unique record. He’s the first Jewish knight who
ever filed his schedule.
Says Carington to Wales : “I know him
better than anybody—give him a bauble, and his
republicanism is gone.”
Chief Secretary Cockburn (S. A.) has tried
his liand at almost everything - , and has now in-
vented a process for curing olives.
Millionaire James Tyson proposes to visit
Chicago Fair. So far, he lias never been out-
side the boundaries of Australasia.
Sleath and Ferguson, Broken Hill labour-
leaders are, we understand, to be charged with
being the Dora Dora blacks in disguise.
Of the members of the S.A. Ministry, five
have. been mayors of country corporations, while
the sixth has been chairman of a district council.
there have been actual rejoicings over Sir
M. H. Davies’ return. As his Bible says : “All
men will praise thee, when thou dost well to thy-
self.” J
Munchausen Booth ” is the latest nick-
name applied to the Salvationist Pope. “ I wrote
Darkest England ’ in 24 hours, and I live on Is.
a day. ’
Three members of the Ministry, three
Legislative Councillors, and 11 members of the
Assembly, in South Australia, are natives of the
province.
The S.A. Agent-General, Sir John Bray,
and Mayor Bullock, of Adelaide, are both the
sons of shoemakers, who deserted their lasts and
became rich.
“ Death of Mister Whittier the poet,”
says the Argus. It is only such poets as Parkes,
a , n it. H ow ell, of Adelaide gaol, who need
Mistering.
The Adelaide (S.A.) restaurant at which
the second armed contingent of N.S. Wales police
were lunched belongs to the brother-in-law of
Chief Justice Way.
lt will interest a lot of people to hear that
1 liil. May s parson, as depicted in “The Parson
and the Painter,’' is an Anglican clergyman in a
Sydney railway suburb.
There is room for but two more monu-
ments in Westminster Abbey; the spaces are
reserved for Gladstone and Tennyson. How about
Burdett Smith and John Davies?
Jimmy Munro seems to be in no violent
hurry to get back to Melbourne. He has wired
that his daughter’s measles will detain him in
London till about the 2Gth October.
The O’Sullivan, M.P., on the Queensland
Dentists’ Bill: “ Begor, Oi don’t see the use of
dintisthry at all. Whinever Oi want to pull out a
tooth, Oi do id wid a bhit of sthring.”
Sir Matthew Davies claims that his visit
to England “ has been beneficial to colonial
finances generally !” It might have been had he
gone a few years sooner and stayed a few years
longer.
Bennett, one of the men convicted of the
Albert Park (Melb.) safe robberv, pleaded that
he had formerly been an official-assignee. Then
why didn the stick to that line of business? An
official-assignee is the safest robber going,
Capt. B. Baden-Powell (Barden Poo-ill,
doncherknow) intends to bring out a book on
Queensland. Poo-ill is a son of Baden-Powell,
M.P., and was twice an aide in the Northern pro-
vince, where he was always regarded as a standing
joke.
A Gulf digger named McDonald, an ex-
Maorilander, died the other day in Townsville
(Q.) hospital, worth .£7OOO, made out of the Glen-
garry p.c., Croydon. He left his money to Croy-
don hospital, save enough of it to provide a shil-
ling-a-week legacy to his wife.
Colonel Campbell, the Chicago friend of
Sir G. Republican Dibbs, says : “Asa statesman,
you must understand, George R. Dibbs is the
Jerry Simpson of Australia !” This sounds
severe. But who is Jerry Simpson? The G.
Republican Dibbs of America?
Adelaide journalists have apparently never
heard of “ Rare Ben Jonson.” Professor Boulger
recently delivered a lecture on the writings of the
poet, and the Advertiser, in its report, spelt the
name “Johnson,” while the Register went one
better and rendered it “Johnston.”
L. L. Smith, the young man’s friend, met
Sir M. H. Davies at Spencer-street, with a
carriage and pair. £ £ ascribes the possession of
the turnout to the fact that he was one of the few
Southern legislators who did not buy scrip in “ the
Davies’ companies or their tentacles.”
Justice Windeyer, borrowed from N.B.W.
for tho occasion, is the presiding Judge of the
trio who sit on the Queensland Investment
appeals. Courtesy ? Courtesy be hanged !
Cooper and Chubb are wise in their generation.
They have learned (or forgotten) most of their law
in North Queensland.
If a libel-plaintiff is at liberty to announce
in the press that: “Whatever amount may be
obtained will be devoted to charitable purposes,”
why shouldn’t tho defendant be privileged to go
one better and announce his intention of dis-
tributing a large sum amongst deserving jurymen
should he win the case ?
Mr. Barnett, the P.M. at Silverton whom
the N.S. W. Minister for Justice has appointed
{vice Whippingdale Johnson, neatly elbowed olf
tho Bench by being subpoenaed for the defence
by the labour-party) to hear the conspiracy cases
at Broken Hill, on the ground of being a “man of
large experience,” was a few years ago C.P.S. at
Wentworth.
A certain played-out friend of the Queens-
land working-man was a bricklayer ere he made a
pile out of railway-contracts. One of his schemes
for getting six hours’ work done in three was to
cheerfully enter a cutting and spur on the navvies
by saying : “Now, then, chaps, let’s get through
this ’ere bank before knock-off, and we’ll all go
and ’avc a drink. ”
Arthur Orton prac-
tises medicine at Stan-
thorpe, Queensland.
The uu fortun at e
Rev. D. Laseron, acci-
dentally pistolled by
Walker, M.P.. is now an
inmate of a Sydney hos-
pital.
“ If you would live
long, be sure and have
long - lived ancestors.”
The mother of Sir Alfred
Stephen (who is over 90)
died at the age of 89.
Police-Commissioner
Peterswald, whose (let us
say injudicious) telegram
disclosed to the continent
the inclinations and in-
structions of his political
chief, theS.A. Chief Sec-
retary, is an Adelaide
Club-man.
Rev. George Robin-
son, B. A., the stylish
young priest of St.
Patrick’s R.O. Cathedral,
Melb., is a ’vert from
Presbyterianism. The
followers of John Knox
are rarely 14 reconciled ”to
Rome, and a Roman priest
who has been formerly a
Knoxite is a novelty.
An eccentric indivi-
dual, who imagines him-
self a bishop, tackled
M‘llwraith on the plat-
form of aßrisbane station
a while ago. “Thou art
a snob, Sir Thomas,” he
said, “a vile snob.”
MTlwraith chuckled. It
is said that the same in-
dividual sometimes buries
his children in sand up to
their wrecks and waters
them occasionally —to
make them grow,
A Sydney juror in a
case tried the other day
before Judge Windeyer,
won a new hat thus : —A
few minutes before the
summing- up began, the
juror wagered a new hat
that the judge would not
look at the jury right
through his address; and
the judge didn’t. It is a
tradition almost in the
law - courts that Judge
Windeyer always sums
up with his back turned
to the jury.
Tawhiao, the Maori King, who has now
formally surrendered all his monarchical claims
for a miserable pension of ,£225 a year, refused,
when in a more innocent state of nature, to make a
similar abdication, although then tempted with an
offer of £lOOO a year, free quarters, and a grant
of 200,000 acres of land.
The first person (according to Melbourne
Herald) to greet Matthew Davies on his return
to Melbourne was Speaker Bent. Ominous. “As
Davies drove off in £. £. Smith’s carriage, the
spectators gave him three hearty cheers.” A
glance at the names of those spectators (about ten)
will be found instructive.
A correspondent says, respecting a recent
Bulletin paragraph about a quondam plucky
North Queensland timber-getter The same
Charlie Graham was a son of the laird of Inch-
brakie, in Perthshire (Scotland), and a direct
descendant of, as he is yet called in Scotland,
‘ the bloody Claverhouse.’ ”
A Melbourne critic states that Gordon
Fraser, in his portrait of Speaker Bent, has
“slightly idealised” that gentleman “in weight
of feature and texture of skin.” Which means
that Bent’s countenance is like a fierce and blood-
shot ham, and Fraser has made him look like
Faust, after he had sold his soul in exchange for
youth and a fresh lease of beauty.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle
How did Sir Benjamin Benjamin get
entitled ? One year it was expected the Prince of
Wales would come, wherefore Benjy’s claims to
the Mayoralty were unceremoniously shoved aside
because he was a Hebrew, but his revenge came,
through the Rosebery influence, and the other
fellow never gob knighted at all.
Cabled that the British press pronounce B
Lord Augustus Loftus’ “ Reminiscences” “ a veri-
table mine of secret history and valuable auec”
dote.” If Lord Augustus has fully taken the
public into his confidence concerning his trails-
actions with a certain Australian C.M.G., the
volume will indeed be interesting.
It turns out, says a West Australian
.correspondent of The Bulletin, that there is no
truth whatsoever in the statement so widely
circulated at the time of the Windsor murder
excitement, to the effect that Deeming had
started off by cementing the floor of the new house
he was building at Southern Cross goldfields for
his then fiancee, Miss Kate Rounsfell.
t 7. , .
Viscount Massereene, now on his way
“home,” had several different names on board the
Orient liner “Orotava.” He was called Lord
Massereene, Lord Vaseline, Lord Mandarin, and
Lord Glycerine. It is understood that his lord-
ship has asked Boy Politician Caulfield (nowin
West Australia) to use his influence in obtaining
for him the West Australian governorship.
|*M •
>1
ii /
roo 1)5 - lioli! njii father
i>clc/erer yor jjuurij.
\f he njetjded boof" (a;f
J<\ yncta^.'
J )Hj s PjdjK- tort
Iyaf> klor dad fay do, Lootj-
j;e doije tt]af I "
r. rr j-i „ ,
pen. Iloare, formerly one of the pro
prietors of the Geelong Times, and later a leader-
writer for Melbourne D.T., is now one of the
chief leader-writers for the Age. Before accept-
ing the post, he extracted from David Syme a
written undertaking that he would not be
asked to write anything to which his conscience
objected. Hoare is an English ’vert to the
Roman Church.
a
Due William Watts petitions Maoriland
Assembly for a grant in consideration of his
services in the Taranaki war. “Armed with an
old Brown Bess musket,” he sets forth in this
document, “I actually did sentry-go without any
drill or preparation.” Which reminds us a good
deal of the man who did the goose-step on his own
responsibility and supported only by the
approval of his own conscience.
TA,, i\t it I? -i i\
John Dufchie, M.H R (Maonland), says a
biographer in the Christchurch Press, “ is one of
those men who relieve the necessities of the widow
and orphan, and succour those who are desolate
and oppressed, with murder in Ins face and
Christian’chari ty m his heart. It is an old
legend in Wellington that Duthie once chased a
poor man down the street, to give him a £l-note,
with such a look of concentrated hatred on his
countenance, that the intended recipient of his
charity fled into a police-station for protection.
- Frederick Plummer, who was shot the
other day by a Maoriland policeman, recently wa^
• engaged as canvasser for an Auckland firm. Going
* to the office one morning, he found a detective
closeted with “ the boss.” “I suppose you now
know who 1 am, and lam dismissed i 1” asked
Plummer. “ I know who you are, but you shall
i go_ on as if I knew nothing about it, ’’ said the
principal. But Plummer returned his books and
“squared his accounts” that very day, and—
wandered back into crime, or at least the next
crime which took place was fixed on to him, which
was much the same. Ctl
James Duerdhi, the well-known bachelor
Melbourne solicitor found dead in the Domain
Load, South Yarra, last week, was one of the best-
known figures in Oollins-street during the last
quarter of a century. He and the late William
M ‘Kinley were two of the founders of the Yorick
Club when the club had modest apartments over
Miss Oliver’s hotel next the Argus. Duerdin
was sou of one of the earliest Melbourne
solicitors, and inherited an independence from
his father; lie did not long survive his
chum, dear old “Mac.” Ho‘ practised his
profession although he had no need to do so
but he liked his fellow-man and loved to associate
with him. Hence he was an ideal club-man—
social, gentle, good-natured, affable, loyal, and
without an enemy. His attachment to the Yorick
continued to the last. It was the last place
he called at before his death. He was a
remarkably quiet man, with a voice soft
and gentle as a woman’s ought to be, and
a face across which kindness was written.
His Jaw work was almost entirely confined to his
office. On the night of his death he left the
Yorick to catch a train to one of the southern
suburbs ; it is supposed he missed it, and was on
his way home on foot when he died. He was
unmarried and 54 years of age.
Griffith, we hear, holds 1000 Mount Morgan
shares, which a,re said to have cost him £l5 a
share, but which are now worth about 455.
M‘llwraith has 4500, and Hume Black has just
sold 4500. The other political shareholders are
Speaker Norton, 1000 ; Morehead, 6000 ; Pattison
92,000; Perkins, 9104; Philp, 3000; Stevenson’
8352; Paul, 1000; and Archer, 200. Also, Callan
holds 10,781; Casey, 1250; Dalrymple, 400; and
Donaldson, 200. Garrick, the Agent-General, has
550. D’Arcy, who cuts so big a figure in London
just now, is the registered owner of 131,033 shares,
which, at Gd. dividends, makes his'income from
this source something like £3275 per month, or,
roughly, .£l2O a day. The share-list is thick
with clergymen, among whom are a N.S.W.
bishop and one solitary priest. There are also
lords and ladies interested, and dukes and
earls and majors and lieutenant-colonels and
colonels—mostly English. The six Halls between
them hold 357,000, but the largest individual
holder is D’Arcy; the smallest is a man in N.S.W.,
who owns eight. Forty-eight widows crop out
also in the list, and twice as many spinsters.
These latter are mostly dummies for politicians
and people who wouldn’t care to have their names
known. Only one English M.P. appears, and one
journalist.—an Englishman also.
Editor Bulletin,— Not one of your cor-
respondents seems to have heard this story of
Blind Tom, the wood-cutter, of Lefroy, He was
on the Speewaa, in ’32, and in a match with
Crooked Mick, for 1000 dols., felled 1600 lignum-
poles in eight hours. They both used 561bs. axes.
—Omega.
Mages in Queensland have been on the
decline for some years, and there is one farmer
near Bundaberg (Q.), who is making the road so
greasy that it can’t be long ere bottom is
reached. This hardy son of toil is the possessor
of a homestead and four cows. These cows have
to eke out an existence on the natural grass of the
homestead; said grass at present resembles partly-
burnt paper. Well, this farmer wants a plough-
man, and has offered as an equivalent for wages
all the butter his moh of cows produces. What
price immigration ?
From London Illustrated Bits :
In order to further our singular determination of
being absolutely alone in the field of humour ice shall
give on this page a weekly selection of really original
jokes. Heretofore such a thins has been deemed in-
credible in English journalism, most of the British
editorial humour being, we are sorry to say, by subtle
Saxon scribes, snared, seized, smuggled, and scissored
from the columns of Transatlantic periodicals. This new
and stupendous feature in our journal is—need we add?
—copyrighted and, paid for.
Then about one-third of the page is filled by an
illustration drawn by Livingston Hopkins for The
Bulletin, with the original legend attached.
Wherefore it would appear that the Illustrated
Bits is just as original as the rest of its
tribe, and the only novel feature is that,
not content with cold-blooded thieving, it goes
out of its way to be a deliberate liar. Which
reminds us that in one of the numerous pub-
lications issued from Sydney Sunday Times
office there the other day appeared a column-and-
a-quarter story of Australia which, as no
acknowledgement to the contrary is made,
one would assume to be original, entitled “Fen-
ton’s Fortune.” “ Fenton’s Fortune ” is a story
which appeared a year or so ago in The Bulletin
under the title “ Brady’s Luck.” The title and
the names of the characters have been altered so
as to conceal the theft; likewise, the name of Mr.
David Falk, of Adelaide, the original author of
the story, and whom The Bulletin paid for his
work, is carefully omitted.
By using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, the blood is
thoroughly cleansed and invigorated, the appetite
stimulated, and the system prepared to resist the
disease peculiar to summer months. Ask for
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Take no other.


To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
■l'eel Well—Take Wolkk's Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
DIGESTIVE
MEAL
Nothin# in modern times has been so copied a s
Woi.i’K s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
D’Akcy Brothers, Brokers, Scott Chambers,
<)(i Pitt-street, Sydney.
Secure an overdraft with a G N U N Darling
cigar.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Soothing and invigorating.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
WILLIAM FLEMING,
(MERCHANT),
22 & 24 Clarence Street;
(Corner Margaret Street),
S Y D 3)T B 3T.
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES, PHOTONS,
Til AY and CONCORD BUGGIES,
DOG CARTS, BUCKDOARDS,
WAGGONS, CARTS, HARNESS, ETC.,
FLEMING’S RELIABLE BUGGIES.
22 AM) 24 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australian Governments have fallen
Uirougli whisky. But Coffey may also kill a
Ministry.
There are 19,000 Chinese and Polynesians
Queensland, of which the proposed Northern
division will take 12,000. ,
Barton should have said, not the law,
but i‘ t i ie impartial administration of the law ”is
the life-blood of a democracy.
Simpson, M.L.A. (S.A.) presents his
yearly £2 0 Parliamentary salary to the local
militia for prize firing-competitions.
Sir Henry Ayers, President of the S.A.
legislative Council, has sat continuously in the
lion a; over since it first came into existence 3o
years ago.
The only piece of democratic legislation
that his escaped the Griffilwraith so far is the
Triennial Parliaments Act. Its days, too, seem
mnnbeicd.
“Eyeglass” Reid: “The Ministers are
only the breath in the Premier’s nostrils.” One
can now understand the phrase “They stink in
the nostrils.”
“Thou shalt not take away thy neigh-
bour’s work,” is now a recognised commandment
of the American workman. Socially the blackleg
is ostracised.
Sydney D.T. and the National Association
pant for a general election in N.S. Wales while
the plural votes are still a foreign-trade and anti-
labour power in the land.
The assets of the Chinaman-ruled Northern
Territory, says Horn, M.L.A., are “a rotting
jetty, an ant-eaten town, and a railway that goes
nowhere and pays nothing.”
The S.A. bogus National Defence League is
practically run by squatter-lawyer Baker, and the
erstwhile Radical pressman Johnson, who made
his pile by judiciously selling a gold-mine.
Tom Slattery, now a more or less important
personage in N.SAV. political circles, learned the
elements of political tactics when he was Council-
clerk to the borough of Waterloo, Sydney.
Speaker Abbott (N.S.W.), though he
stands six feet in his socks and scales 18 stone odd,
is courageous with weak members and lamblike
with any member who can wag a bitter tongue.
There should be a regulation that on the
holder of any Imperial title becoming insolvent,
his “ handle ” should be put in the schedule as
part of the assets, and sold to the highest bidder.
It is thought certain that the S.A. Legis-
lative Council will again throw out the Land
Values Assessment Bill, the principle of which
has now been affirmed by the Assembly three
times.
Labour-Member M‘Pherson in the S.A.
Assembly, last week, astonished the House by
pointing out several arithmetical errors in a
return prepared by the local Inspector-General of
Schools.
Australian Federation is being worked
irrespective of Parliaments. Labour and Capital
are federating side by side. Each sees the advan-
tage it thus gains, and the victor will retain it
at all hazards.
“ We have seen the Kanakas and Chinese
at work. We are told that white people are
civilized, but we can see no civilisation in their
treatment of these men.”— The Japan esc Commis-
sioners to Queensland.
Legislation has degenerated into such a
“one-horse ’’farce in Queensland that the greatest
difficulty is now experienced in keeping a quorum.
Out of 72 members, only 37 were present at the
second reading of the Separation Bill.
Melbourne Australian Natives’ Association
discusses, “Is the creation of an Australian
peerage inimical to the best interests of its
democracy?” After this the A.N.A. will discuss
“ Is fox-terrier bite bad for chickens?”
The N.S.W. Government is the greatest
promoter of “sweating” in the tailoring trade of
the province, and it is this evil which is especially
aimed at by J. D. Fitzgerald’s motion that all
Government clothing shall in future be made in
workshops.,
There are still a thousand unemployed in
Brisbane who are kept from starving by the
Government at a cost of 3s. per week each. If
any of these “demonstrate” the Griffilwraith
detectives report, and his fivepence a day is
stopped straight off.
Hi Queensland Legislative Assembly.
Black; “ I at least am consistent; I have not
changed my principles.” The Griffilwraith ; “ One
Kiust have principles before they can change.”
Black: “.And a man who has no principles can
always change them.”
Dear Bulletin, —Be your par. in last
week’s issue, that Bruce Smith is the only N.S.W.
senator who declines to draw his <£3oo from the
treasury. Charlie Collins, of Namoi, previous to
the passing of the Payment of Members Bill,
declared he would give his salary to the hospitals
Hi the Namoi district. Query ?—Omega.
An eloquent sign of the times that no fat
inan with a white waistcoat has slowly risen from
his seat in N.S.W. Parliament, and unctuously
viQ-ed his humble congratulations to Speaker
Abbott and Premier Dibbs on the high and dis-
tinguished honours which it had pleased their
wacious Sovereign Lady the Queen to bestow
upon them.
Talking of honors ; When Peter the Great
Visited Berlin he had in his suite about a score of
ladies of honor-each of whom had a baby in her
When anyone of them was asked whose
child it was, she invariably replied “The Czar has
done me the honor.” This is for a certain Aus-
A a “ a _n politician to remember as he displays his
'-•C.M.G. ribbon and star.
The Mayor of Albury (N.S.W.) to
Governor Jersey :
We cordially welcome you, first as a worthy and efficient
representative of our Sovereign the Queen, whom her
subjects here as elsewhere, regard with true rever-
ence, notwithstanding the veneer of Republicanism with
which some of us now and again disguise ourselves.
How Dibbs must bate that Mayor !
According to S.M. Herald, some labour
M.P. disclaims all art and part in the amendment
moved by Frank Cotton on Reid’s motion of cen-
sure. Of course, as Parkes says, the amendment
is included in the motion, but it was a smart
tactical move, for all that, and very cleverly
blocked a certain bogus democrat who hungers
just as much after political capital as the other
sort.
Labour Member Hooper (S.A.) : “ Either
Parliament has no right to interpose in labour
disputes, and so should let them take their course,
or it has a right to interpose, and should do so
fearlessly. Conciliation should not be merely senti-
mental but practical. if Parliament only inter-
feres in a dispute in the guise of a peacemaker it
will but confuse the matter at issue. Therefore, I
will oppose the Bill”—Kingston’s.
The recent ignominious failure of more
than one Australian police-magistrate to keep a
cool head on the judgment-seat demonstrates the
stupidity of the old system of recruiting the
magisterial bench, which system is based on the
supposition that every magistrate is superhuman,
not to say god-like, in his nature. Is it to be
expected that a magistrate whose salary comes up
for aim ual review will ever dare so to act as to incur
the displeasure of the capitalistic classes, the
frowns of society’s leaders, and, practically, the
ostracism of his wife and marriageable daughters ?
A magistrate now sees but as the Ministerial head
of his department sees, and the result is shown in—
well, several cases. How would it do to appoint
the superior magistrates in the way the Judges
are appointed ? It must tend to stiffen the magis-
terial backbone in trying situations. The present
system of appointing J.’sP. is, of course, mere
political corruption.
If the Queensland
Investment Co.
pleased it could empty
one seat in the House
in eight days.
Republican Dibbs
(at last year’s Austra-
lian Federal Conven-
tion): “There is an
instinct of freedom in
Australia which will
compel our people at
the earliest moment
to form a nation of
their own.” Postu-
lant - Knight Dibbs
(within the baleful
shadow of the
Throne): “I hope the
day is far distant
when any statesman
will endeavour to
weaken the cords
which bind us to Eng-
land.”
There were some
humorous incidents
about Stead’s crusade
against Dilke at the
Eorestof Dean. Stead
and Parson Price-
Hughes undertook to
go down together and
stump the constitu-
ency with the story of
Dilke’s immorality,
but at the last moment
Pastor Hughes judi-
ciously backed out.
Stead went down
alone, and advertised
that he has going to
deliver a blasting de-
nunciation of Dilke in
a certain public hall,
but the population
called unanimously at
his hotel to ask him
what he meant by his
language. Then there
was a fleeting glimpse
of an affrighted, red-
headed editor at a
window; and that
social purity man got
out by a side door
and made tracks for
the railway-station,
where he got himself
locked in a freight-
waggon for London.
Sir Dibbs’ ineptitude in quoting Scripture
was again illustrated last week, when he compared
the <£looo which he snavelled out of the N.S. W.
Treasury for his English trip to the alabaster box
of precious ointment which a certain Mary spilled
on the feet of Christ. Delicious ! Dibbs spent
the money on Dibbs ; the money is the ointment
of the simile ; therefore Dibbs, the giver, is Mary,
and Dibbs, the recipient, is Christ. What a holy
tangle !
Want, Q.C., is, to be invited to affirm that
in view of the finding of the Royal Com.nission,
Schey, Chief Railway Commissioner Eddy s
accuser, ought to resign his sent. Schey is by no
means devoid of brains, and it is possible that he
may meet the leather-lunged lawyer with an
amendment that in view of the finding of the
Fehon Commission, Want ought to resign his seat
at the same time. Lawyers who live in glass
houses, &c.
The N.S.W. Ministry’s chief chance of
holding on to office lies, or lay, in prolonging the
debate until the excitement on the cross-benches
simmers down. That, and the moving of an
amendment hi/ a labour member —Cann is the man
—which would yard the monopolists apart from
labour sympathisers and bunch all the democrats
—Protectionists and Freetraders together—would
give them a majority. But the last vestige of belief
in their democracy has perished.
The members of N.S.W. Public Works
Committee —four guineas a sitting to the chairman
and three guineas a sitting to ordinary members
with 30s. a day all round travelling expenses
were absolutely panic-stricken at the suggestion of
a dissolution of the Assembly. What should be
the legitimate work of two or three sittings of this
body is spread over a dozen sittings—to minister
to the avarice of the guinea-pigs. The committee
is an expensive farce ; the sooner it is abolished or
turned into a non-political Board of Works the
better for the purity and decency of Parliamen-
tary Government.
Sir Alfred Stephen, on the brink of the
grave, is agitated because the “lash ’ has been
given a rest in N.S.W. Over his familiar worn de
plume of “Lex” he vents his spleen in the press
and speaks of Cabinet Ministers as “ weak-kneed
men without backbone governors afraid to
governand no heed being taken of his auto-
cratic remonstrances he gets a fussy old gentleman
to quote his screeds to Minister of Justice
O’Connor in the nominee Council.
Maoriland Minister Seddon’s butty-gang
system is engrossing the attention of Victorian
politicians, and copies of reports on the success of
the innovation are widely circulated in the Lower
House. That work should be done better when
every worker has an interest in the profits, and
knows that the middleman’s army of inspectors
and labour-exploiters, in addition to that super-
vision required by the State, is not being carried
on his back, is not very remarkable.
There are rumours of dissension in S. A.
Labour-party, and near election-time, too. Cer-
tain districts object to the candidates allotted
them. In Sturt, the railway employes, because
their nominee is not accepted by the Trades
Council, have decided to support the Conservative
Stock, Attorney-Genera', and vote against the
united labour man. Unless present difficulties be
surmounted, the labour-party of 1893, which could
easily consist of 15 members, will never be
incubated.
Having got in “the thin end of the
wedge ” of Kanaka labour, the Queensland daily
press now howls that the regulations restricting
Kanaka labour to sugar-plantations are “in
restraint of industry.” It is gravely urged
that farmers should be allowed “ to create wealth
by Kanaka industry.” At first it was, “ Save the
sugar-industry by means of Kanaka cheap-
labour !” Now it is, “Save the farming-industry!”
By-and-bye, it will be, “Save all industry by
using cheap slave-labour. ”
Now that Nathaniel Levi is an M.L.C. he
will surely launch his Daily News, the Radical
organ that is to confound the enemies of Mel-
VERBAL CASH.
BLUET : “How about a contract?”
MR. FLEECE : “Oh, never mind that, we'll have a verbal con-
tract.”
BLUET: “Sense me, boss. Last time I had a verbal contract, I
drew verbal wages.”
bourne Trades Hall. Levi’s last (evening) news-
paper venture was scurvily treated by “ Lygou-
street,” but times have changed since then. The
inextinguishable Hebrew may yet knock some of
the coin out of David Syme, and nobody would
be sorry to see him succeed in that direction, pro-
vided that he doesn’t change his name to Levey,
with an accent on the Lev.
When General Jomini deserted from
Napoleon to the Russians, and the,Czar Alexander
made him an aide-de-camp, 'fit a banquet to the
Emperor of Austria, the latter, observing the
traitor’s presence, remarked to the Czar : “I know
that Sovereigns find it necessary sometimes to
employ deserters, but I had no idea that they
admitted them to their own table.” Queen
Victoria doesn’t make that mistake with ex-
Republicans. She sends them to dine with their
lordships the upper servants.
Premier Ballance (M.L.) has introduced a
Bill providing that all money left unclaimed in
the banks shall be paid over to the Consolidated
Revenue. The unclaimed money is a profitable
item, though It never appears in the balance-sheet.
When anybody dies leaving a big balance it isn’t
the bank’s business to hunt for his heirs, and if
they don’t turn up the institution doesn’t worry.
Not long since, in one of the Australias, a lost
Government deposit was discovered about which
the bank had preserved a dead silence for 10
years.
The experience of Mr. Fitzpatrick, late
candidate for the Hawkesbury, N.S.W., who had
three votes at Richmond while fifteen personal
friends swore they voted for him, reminds us of a
little experience H. H. Cooke once had at I orbes
(N.S.W.) Ho had used his influence with the
returning-officer to obtain billets as Deputy R.O.
and poll-clerk for two electors who vowed to vote
for him. They were sent to an outlandish place,
“ the Overflow,” since immortalised by “Banjo.”
Three days afterwards they arrived in Forbes
with the ballot-box, which, on being opened, was
found to contain just thirteen votes, not one of
which was for Henry Harrie Cooke.
N.S.W. ex-Minister of Education Carru-
thers, now that the Parkesinn muzzle is removed,
professes a zealous desire to make radical amend-
ments in the local Education Act. Another
instance of attempting to steal a march on a
political opponent! Last session Ninian Melville
brought in a Bill to make public instruction free
throughout the State ; but Minister Carruthers
did not come to his assistance. This session the
ex-Minister tries to father the radical movement
himself ; but Melville has a notice on the paper to
pick up his own Bill at the point where it was
dropped last session. As Parkes stole Traill’s
One-man-one-vote Bill, so Carruthers is striving
to steal Melville’s Free Education Bill.
Lawyer-Premier Griffith (Q.) should apply
his speech of felicitation to Judge Windeyer
(N.S.W.), on the occasion of that Justice’s taking
a seat on Queensland Supreme Court Bench as a
special temporary Queensland Judge—in which
speech Griffith argued that the incident was a
living illustration of the fact that all the Austra-
lian provinces “ are members of one family ’- to
his pro-slavery legislation. White Australians
repudiate all connection with any piebald or
mottled “ family,” and only recognise the present
brotherhood of Queenslanders because they believe
that the majority of the veople of that province are
as much opposed to coloured labour as they arc
themselves. Griffith, the Kanaka enslaver, is as a
pariah to all white-hearted men on the Australian
continent. Queenslanders can only regain full
“family” ties by reversing the Griffllwraith
Kanaka-importing and Asiatic-coolie treacheries
to Australian manhood.
The capitalistic objection to the Stamp
Duties Bill (Vic.) is that it will “ tax r i hrift.
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos the present
N.S.W. political situation, does it strike anyone
that Barton and Parkes may be again playing
political chaynies behind the scenes? Do not
recent events suggest the idea that these wily
Imperialists have used Reid and Dibbs to further
their own selfish ends ? Has not Parkes so pulled
the strings on his side of the House as greatly to
discredit Reid in the eyes of the Classes, and has
not Barton so managed the Broken Hill business
as - to lead up to a crisis, probably to culminate in
the estrangement of all the “labour members, ’
and ultimately in an appeal to the “law and
order ” section of the voting community ? Barton,
mark, did not undertake the personal responsi-
bility of authorising the arrest of the strikers’
leaders; but he stayed his hand until Dibbs
resumed the helm of the ship of State, and then
the arrests were made, apparently con amove, on
the authority of—“ the Government.” Now, sup-
posing a dissolution is precipitated, will Dibbs
meet the new Assembly at the head of his Cabinet ?
Is it likely that the Republican shearers of the
Murrumbidgee will re-elect Dibbs? And, assum-
ing that Dibbs cannot get a seat and his Cabinet
bursts up, may not Parkes and Barton father the
holy cause of Imperial Federation again, and hang
up the fiscal controversy for the Federal Parlia-
ment to decide, and perhaps console Dibbs with
the Agent-Generalship or the Speakership ?—A.L.
Broken Hill, not Bunker’s Hill.
Fortune favours the bald. The hoary
hag !
Wolfe's Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations.
“Dibbsy,” adj. , rankly intoxicating.—
1) idionary a dd enda .
Ninian Melville’s retirement from the
Sydney undertaking business has evidently not
decreased competition, judging from the touting
which follows every death.
Constipation, or costiveness, is one of the
most frequent results of liver complaint, and re-
quires prompt and careful attention, for if the
fecal matter becomes impacted in the bowels
dangerous effects are to be apprehended. The
justly celebrated Dr. Abernethy said that in-
attention to the action of the stomach and bowels
was the cause of ninety per cent, of our physical
ailments, and modern science has proved this
assertion correct. Care, however, requires to be
observed in the choice of remedies, for there are
numerous drastic and violent cathartics sold under
various fancy names, but Dr. Fletcher’s Dills are
used with the best advantage in such cases. These
pills are from the prescription of Doctor Bell
Fletcher, of Birmingham, England, and were used
by him in his private and General Hospital
practice there for many years with the greatest
success. This, as a matter of course, proves their
reliability, and Mr. A. M. Beauchamp, Rata,
Rangitikei, N.Z., says : “I wish to inform you of
the good Fletcher’s Pills are doing here. Every-
body uses them, and speaks well of them ; and so
do I, for they are the best I ever used in my life.”
They can be obtained from all medicine vendors,
or direct from F. M. Clements, Newtown, Sydney,
for thirteen penny stamps.
When Tory claims “ A vote for Thrift "
With dull reiteration
Our hands we hardly dare to lift
In meek expostulation.
A vote for Thrift is God’s own gift
(Cry they who’d give the shortest shrift
To creatures poor and cast adrift)
For some among the nation.
A tax on Thrift—O ! cruel shame,
O ! cause for indignation :
Old Tory’s eyes are darting flame
At such an innovation.
O ! cruel shame—the poor and lame
Were just as good and all the same
As strong and wealthy, when it came
To dealing out taxation.
A vote for Thrift, no extra tax
On men of better station.
Here Tory sticks as tight as wax
To manhood valuation.
No extra tax on masters’ backs
That broader are than servant Jack’s ;
Let rich and poor go shares or “ whacks
That’s Tory legislation.


ah unfortunate Coincidence.
ap" ' 1
Mt. Justice Windeyer has taken a temporary
seat upon the Queensland Bench. — Daily paper.
7 fte Wif/coX Situation -
3are of %en/q Topnji-
i Frederick . Horrocks, the Queensland boy under sen-
tence for murder, is to be hanged—despite the
recommendation of the Jury to mercy. —Harm
paper:
EVEN THERE. ,
fcoWDOV, Saturday Night.—General Booth Is how
inclined to favour South Africa as the locality of the over-
sea colony, in connection with his “-Darkest England”
scheme.— Daily Paper. s
Gorilla, (orator at indignation >meeting): “ Ladies
and gentlemen, shall we allow the jungles of this fair land
to be made a dumping-ground for the scum of paupef
London 1” (Squeals of approbation).
»»
/
/
>*
X'/
w
w
/\\
< %i4\
v*\
% O. 'r\
OS.
*A
\
\
V-,V? \
■" % %\
& "p \
f ' s - %\
V • 1 <l*\
%
LONDON, September 15.—The first two volumes o'
Lord Augustus Loftus’s “ Reminiscences ” have been pul
lished. The press pronounces the work to be a veritabh
mine of secret history and valuable anecdote.
London, Thursday,—Mr Gladstone) yesterday made
an ascent of Snowdon. When about half-way to the sum-
mit the mountain became enveloped in mist and Mr. Glad-
stone was compelled to descend. — Daily Paper.
Not the first time the G.O.M. has been befogged.
However, our artist confesses that the above picture was
introduced less from a humorous than from a picturesque
standpoint.
A WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE LEAGUE UTTERANCE.
u Mrs Bull suggested that the movement be more widely advertised, and said that tMBMI
should insist upon husbands having newspapers in their homes.” So long as newspapers in the
bouse do not lead to scorched chops, neglected infants and other calamities there can be no
objection.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


H jj 5 ("he
J <©> fe 6r [ i 5 <* fe<a> r jQ)i I j
<& <o<s| tF> 5s n K<s rs fc,
e> Q)
y r
# /o <r? or ornf ns.r>^
' faerrx* nr>or* f //W ro6s S r*&
(if §)/ //'S c/7C-f~.i-> '(
fncY<s ?/><s cAa^rrpL y
( / X
(Q. ooef
JcxiKe S
(C/noMan 06/&a/'6r> * M e To/«//So/w /k Mo~/ //<*,'// -/&n</
So a?y <3 7”o /y 4« C/v/ocst, tjA? "J
To T HE. TV=r g
M <2 'p& W
('2'>r*v/**yjD* you
,’ n nt<& _7 a s<Brsf -/Asn J rr>u*f
//> <y '&e-o/ &e / nno c e.*> *
r r • « ___ &
CS hisr*c> A
Sy/je. /DctfnA a/{ \
*C7/i4& /m AA<% y S tpcyceys e j/ac^//Come
S ««* -«3<SS acf Stssyc/<7j, ''
f/4/z//*<£</) f 600/\ m o
' / o* /OC'sif ■*■
ffayryg**.)
z 0 * /->&-% — y
s/t a// A c»o<* ~y<?> S/vcsz- a Ay
<yy Ws/% C> eZa/z^trs "
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


WEST AUSTRALIA
IS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £35
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l5
Note These allotments are in selected positions,
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.”
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.,.
309 Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
\V. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Omen:
ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, <£.3 .3s. Bkaham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
PEM ELL’S
WHEAT
MEAL.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The extraordinary popularity of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral is the natural result of its use by all
classes of people for over forty years. It has
proven itself the very best specific for colds,
coughs, and pulmonary complaints.
G N U N Darlings bear a thin red band.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal.' Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colemane and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cpotaraundra, N.S. '>
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
Society
The octogenarian Sir Henry Parkes (with
a parent’s pride, showing his latest jewel to
visitor): “We’re,going to call him ‘Cobden.”
Visitor : “Don’t you think, Sir Henry, that such
a name will rather handicap him at school ? The
buys are sure to call him ‘ Cobby ’ Parkes. Why
not call him ‘ Lincoln ?’ ” Parkes (shyly): “ Oil,
we’re going to call the next one Lincoln.” (Solemn
fact).
* s *
Did Admiral Byng wipe his sword witli
his coat-tails after Her Majesty had used the
weapon to dub ‘Sir George ” Dibbs? Perhaps be
did, and perhaps he said, “ So perish all your
Majesty’s enemies !”
# * *
Miss Kate Rounsefell has been the
cynosure of all eyes in the Speakei’s gallery in
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly. She kept as
far away as possible from the new ladies’ gallery,
bee uise it is so near where those naughty reporters
sit. Apropos the ladies’gallery, it was visited the
other evening bv a daughter of Eve in evening-
dress ; but she” quickly fled from the admiring
glances of the mashed parliamentarians and press-
men.
# * #
It is related that upon the day on which a
reigning Australasian Governor arrived in his
dominions there was a big procession, during
which a boy, the son of a widow, was accidentally
killed. His Ex., representing the majesty of the
great British Empire, sent an old, shiny, claw-
hammer coat to the mother to be made into
mourning for the bereaved family.
# # *
That “ dashing ” contractor, who was—so
lie said —to have built Parkes’ Dead house, and
who was such a mystery while in Sydney, is now at
Salt Lake —a most appropriate location. A Syd-
ney man saw him there the other day.
# * *
The Woollahra (Sydney) Council has just
discovered that the van which carries the dirty
linen and infected bedding from the hospital to
the laundry in the morning, is Used during the
rest of the day for fruit-hawking purposes. And
we presume the man who sits on the aforesaid
bedding in the morning, sits on the fruit all the
rest of the day—at least wo would feel better if
we had his affidavit to the contrary, for we
bought some fruit off a cart once.
* * *
It smacks of snobbery to find “pushing”
nobodies dating their newspaper letters from a
fashionable club —to let people know they are
membalis thereof. One club used to have on
its board a notification : “ Members are requested
not to date advts. from the club.”
# # *
The policemen concerned in that Toorak
blackmail affair are now lobbying members with a
view to having the affair ventilated in the ’Ouse.
All Mount Morgan wouldn’t bribe them now.
There is much speculation down South as
to whether the efforts to hush up a high-toned
scandal will be successful. The aggrieved one
wants £lOOO for some big-checked garments be-
longing to a Well-known M.B. The M.P. offered
£5OO. but there is a reserve of £lOOO on those
duds.
* # *
Coroner Youl (to a Melbourne mother
whose child had been smothered in bed) : “If you
do it again you will find me particularly severe on
you. ” The lesson taught by Grim Death is noth-
ing to the awful anger of a coroner.
# • «
The name of Mrs. James Struth, of Syd-
ney, has, says our London correspondent, lately
come into disagreeable prominence owing to the
cancelling of the presentation by her of a Lady
Simpson at one of the drawing-rooms this year.
The notification of this unusual circumstance has
been the talk of the town, and the Lord Chamber-
lain has had a busy time stating, by request of
“Sir James,” or “Sir Peter,” or “Sir George”
Simpson, as the case might be, that it was not his
wife whose presentation had been cancelled. The
facts appear to be as follow ; The late Sir James
Simpson, the great surgeon, was a school friend of
the late Mr. Struth (of Struth’s wharf), and when
the latter’s son and wife came to England some
time ago an intimacy sprang up between the
families, though Sir James, like his old friend, is
dead. After Mrs. Struth’s presentation some
time ago, her friend Lady Simpson (wife ot
Sir Walter Simpson, son of the celebrated
Sir James) asked her to present her. Of
course the request was acceded to, and the
presentation was duly made. Some time after, it
appears, some member of the Simpson family
wrote to the Lord Chamberlain and asked if he
was quite sure that Lady Simpson was married to
Sir Walter. Enquiry was made, and it was found
that they had gone through a certain ceremony of
manage in Scotland, years ago, and had lived
together as man and wife, but that for certain
reasons it was thought better that the knot should
be tied afresh some time later according to English
law. This explanation, however, did not satisfy
the Queen who at once ordered the presentation
to be cancelled, though the presentation of Lady
Simpson’s daughter by the objectionable Scotch
marriage was allowed to hold good. Mrs. Struth
was, of course, blameless in the matter, and it is
some satisfaction to her to have received from the
Lord Clmniberlain a letter in which he says that
no reflection whatever rests upon her. Neverthe-
less she is very much cut up about the whole
business.
* * #
The detectives—the Sleuth-hounds
Broken Hill.
# # *
The directors’ Litany—“ Give no police
in our time, O Lord.”
# # *
Dr. Leeper’s real fault, at the Melbourne
Trinity College Ladies’ Hostel, is that he is
married.
# * #
Significant addendum to an obituary tele-
gram, re the death of an Australian editor :
“He leaves a widow.” Only that and nothing
more. A fate typical of the craft.
9 # •
Dear Bulletin, —At a Riverina (N.S.W.)
Church of England bazaar, the curate was con-
ducting a raffle. A strange lady approached and
desired to take a ticket “ for the good of the
cause.” “Er—may I ask—pardon me,”stammered
the softy, “ but —er what —er —denomination
may vou—er—be an adherent of ?” “ I’m a Roman
Catholic, but I don’t see what my persuasion has
to do with you and your impertinent question. -’
“Good gracious! if you are a Woman Catholic,
you can’t have a ticket in my waffle, don’t you
know !” Not a born salesman, this ! —Yours,
Bismuth.
# # #
It was recently rumoured that the mace
which vanished so mysteriously from the Vic.
Assembly has been discovered in a house of ill-
fame. Perhaps one of the senators took the
article of power away to show to his friends, and
became so unsober that he forgot all about it.
Stranger things have happened in Melbourne.—
The Adelaide lawyers err in their conten-
tion that “Jumbo” Johnstone, the new Port
Adelaide S.M., will necessarily be a failure
because he is a layman. Samuel Beddome, 50
years Adelaide P.M., was originally a police con-
stable and was successful as a “beak,” because he
administered justice and not mere “ law.”
* * *
Melbourne Standard sent a “ terrible
example ” to the Tyson Sanatorium to test the
efficacy of the Gold Cure, and jubilates over the
result. It isn’t every paper can have its staff
sobered up for “nix.”
» # *
Has Australia stopped the importation of
German sausages ?
# * *
The practice of not allowing Melbourne
juries to go at large during luncheon-hour ought
to be generally adopted. Whilst a famous will-
case was before an Australian court a few years
back, the foreman of the’jury lunched at a leading
hotel with one of the counsel. Also, the side
represented by that counsel won the verdict, and
won it so completely in the face of evidence that
it was practically wiped out afterwards by private
arrangement, the losing party in the suit getting
the lion’s share of the property. Chain ’em up
during luncheon-hour, by all means.
• * *
“ Certain districts of Australia are overrun
with paddy-melons, which grow wild in great
luxuriance, to the great loss and inconvenience of
the farmer's, who can find no market for this
fruit.” From this it might be inferred by English
readers that the paddy-melon plant is a sort of
troublesome ground-vine, instead of a majestic
tree that sometimes grows to a stately height of
nearly 400 ft., and whose trunk at the ground end
often' measures 70 ft. in circumference. N.S.
Wales might do worse than send to Chicago Fair
a few specimens of the aboriginal war-canoes each
hollowed out of a single trunk ol paddy-melon,
and each capable of carrying 100 fully-armed
warriors and their provisions for a month. Then
there might be also exhibited samples of the
paper made out of paddy-melon bark, the straw-
hats manufactured from its graceful fronds, and
the pomatum obtained from its bleeding sap.
* # #
Samples of N.S.W. “ justice.” At Orange,
Patrick Flannery, one month for stealing Is. At
Sydney, Maurice Hill, six months for stealing a
pair of boots worth Gs. Gd. At Sydney again,
Charles Outten, for brutally ill-using a horse,
fined £l. Property !
# # *
N.S. Wales, the only Australian province
vyhere vaccination is not legally compulsory, was,
curiously enough, able to declare itself free from
the recent smallpox infection sooner than any
other of the Australias.
# # *
Sir George Dibbs acknowledges his in-
debtedness to Gov. and Lady Jersey for being
admitted “ into the very holy of holies of English
society.”
# # *
Lombroso, in a recent article, infers that
men rule the world by virtue of their feminine
and poetic temperament, whereas women occupy
a subsidiary position, because they are tempera-
mentally masculine and unimaginative. The very
marriage-market is indicative of this. King
Cophetua often marries the beggar girl, but Lady
Clara Yere de Yere never connubialises with the
retired cheese-monger unless his income is suffi-
cient unto the demands of a Yere de Yere.
Feminine hysterics are themselves evidence of
inability to emotionalise naturally. Man’s emo-
tion is a normal, woman’s ati abnormal manifesta-
tion.
Mayor Manning, of Sydney, in welcomin'-
Sir G. Republican Dibbs, K.C.M.G., remarked
that “the future of the country required met!
standing up straight on their beam-ends.” J Uls |
so. And the past of the country requires men lyinp
up perpendicularly on their backs, broadside or
with their bows to the sea, and the main-deck
thrown overboard. How straight is a man when
he is on his beam-ends, anyhow ?
# # #
“ Ad.” from Sydney E. News :
~\\T ANTED Known. —10 Guineas sent to the lady sun-
’ ’ plying missing letters -PERSSO P. Stamps
Is. Mr. , P. 0., Paddington. ’
How many ladies, we wonder, will send in Is.
and fill in the missing letters to form “ Pears’
Soap ?” And how many chances are there that
all the shillings will be forfeited because the real
answer is “ pedometers soldiership,” or something
equally unfindable? 6
# * *
Telegram from Broken Hill in the daily
press : J
Mr. Chas. Eley was riding on the engine when a rock
was hurled at him, striking him on the mouth and caus-
ing blood to flow, &e.
“ A rook was hurled.” Shade of the Titans !
* * »
Dr. Cress well, of Melbourne Board of
Health, advocates the immediate establishment of
a crematorium in Melbourne, in view of the
possible advent of the cholera. Which reminds
us that at a recent election for the Legislative
Council in Melbourne, one of the candidates was
asked if he favoured the establishment of a public
crematorium (with the accent on the “ere ”)? He
replied that he did not, as it would take all the
trade away from the poor milkmen.
* # *
When are Cremation Creed and Co., of
Sydney, going to build their little oven ?
# * *
Alleged parsonical advt. from an American
paper
Religious doubts and difficulties answered by private
letter. State your difficulty clearly, and enclose one
dollar for reply.
We undertake to do the same for half-a-sovereign
a time.
* # #
On the facade of a certain big Australian
bank is an allegorical figure of Justice. One day
an officer of the bank, feeling aggrieved at some
action of the authorities, remarked to the general
manager that “ Justice was on the wall.” “ Yes
—outside,” said the manager.
* * #
War is being made by a little knot of
enthusiasts upon “the mediaeval management of
Melbourne University.” A National University
Union, with a nominal membership subscription,
and aiming at a Free University, has been
formed ; it already has 50 members. The address
of the secretary, J. B. Castiean, is Doric Club,
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne.
The gentle vegetarian now alludes to
people who use meat as “corpse-eaters.” And
yet there are a few million assorted corpses—
beetles, germs, infinitesimal squashy things, grubs,
and curious objects with innumerable legs—on
every cabbage-leaf, and the vegetarian devours
them all and asks no questions. We mean to
stick to beef. The bullock has at least enough
grace and cleanliness to rasp the bigger parasites
off him by scraping himself against a fence, and
the cauliflower never does that. Even a hog is
cleaner than a vegetable, for it wallows in aspring
when it can find one on a hot day, and has to be
hauled out by the tail before the girl can get a
bucketful of water to make the porridge with.
# • *
It transpired in Chambers, at Sydney, one
day last week, before Mr. Justice Innes, that
an unfortunate laundress who had entrusted a
bogus-bank with .£lOO had a bill of costs against
her for £9B 12s. in an endeavour to recover her
money !
* # *
It might pay the official-assignees in in-
solvency to hire a policeman to watch the opera-
tions of those who anonymously advertise in the
daily press like tills
TVrANTED-those giving up business in town or
'' country—to know that lam a Cash Purchaser
to any amount lor all kinds of goods, including job
lines. Address “ Private,” 41 St., —-
# * -* .
The Northern Territory Times, Port
Darwin, has on its composing-staff a Chinaman
and an aboriginal.
“ M.L.C.”—“ More Lost Cash ; ” “ More
Loft Creditors ; ” “ Much Less Credit.”
# # *
“ Wanted kind person to adopt infant
from birth ” is counting the chickens with a
vengeance.
* # *
At a W.Q. township, in the heart of the
shearing district, the second largest pub. is kept
by a Chinaman. He is married and has 13 chil-
dren, mostly girls. The whole of the work is per-
formed by the family, the old man being cook.
They are musically inclined, and have among
them a very fair band of brass and string instru-
ments. Some of the white townsfolk have started
an opposition band, and whenever the Chinese
start to play the opposition open fire and pande-
monium is the result.
FINIS.
A downward curve of an eyelid, and
A tale is told ;
The windows of the heart are closed
Since love’s a-cold.
Armidale, N.S.W.
M. T.
That Speaker’s mace, that Speaker’s mace,
Which left its much-respected place
And disappeared so oddly—
O ! has it wandered far from grace,
And turned a solemn, gilty face
To goddesses ungodly ?
ATackaday! alackaday!
Suppose the mace has gone astray
That once was staid and proper—
How sad to think it sometimes may
Give “beans” to giddy damsels gay,
Or pulverise a “ copper ” !
An omen thou, an omen thou,
Poor Speaker’s mace, we must allow—
It matters not who hath you.
You went, we know not when or how
Sir Matthew lost his mace, and now
The House lias lost Sir Matthew.
MISTAKEN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This is not love—there is no stir at heart,
No throbbing pulsings that are wholly pain,
No terror in the eyes whore tears soon start,
No sweet oblivion to all loss and gain.
This is not love—a cool, contemptuous kiss
On some white cheek half yielded wearily.
No shrinking fear of passion’s dread abyss
Where wrecks of women’s lives loom drearily.
This is not love—cool hands which clasp and loose
All idly as with souls but half awake.
Nay, sigh no more, dear heart—what is the use?
But join our cool lips thus—for friendship’s sake.
INA M. W.


EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
SI W'TA(xi;s: their Use, when Required,
A ai,, l how to Purchase.”
read h! e ?n ,'^' e treatise, issued free, which should be
testing u/? ue eyesight. A new method of
those vesidm k lB en 9 lost 'd with it, by means of which
obtain rri„c '! 2 ' at a distance can gauge their vision, and
We S . assts as accurately as these living in Sydney.
n| ost haimv*! 0l ? U 1 h *y Qualified Opticians, and shall be
wish it ~„i , test t lle sight and give advice to all who
pamphlet it ‘°rward, free of charge to any address, the
‘ nlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
& 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Aids to digestion—G NUN Darling cigars.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Pfahlert’s Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney
J. Lichtscheindl, for many years proprietor of the Empire
Hotel, Wellington, N.Z., has taken over the above old
established first-class hotel. Special rates for commercia
travellers and families.
When arc Spectacles Required ?
When the eyes water or become so much fatigued by
short exercise as to be obliged.to be frequently closed or
relieved by viewing different objects.
When objects cannot be seen without removing them
to an increased distance.
When the letters of a book appear to blend with one
another.
When more light is necessary than was formerly, as
When the candle is placed between the eye and the
bonk ;
When much difficulty is found in threading a needle ;
When the eyes appear as if they had a mist before
them;
When black specks seem floating in the sight.
When any of the above indications arise, all affectation
should be laid aside, responsible and skilful opticians con-
sulted, and a pair of preservers purchased.
PEOST & SHIPHAM
(Practical Spectacle Makers),
462, 474 and 557 GKOROK STREET, SYDNEY,
Auk tiik Pkopuk.
Rupert Carrington has become a squatter
, purchased, in company with his father-in
ha\ mg 1 „ jj ors f a ll, the Momalong estate, near
B'V,. ’ Vr « w
Bcrngan, > v •
An Auckland (M.L.) servant girl recently
• -t-orl -i fortune-teller, who prophesied that she
VIS ! Id be drowned on the following Thursday.
!, wasn’t drowned, but she became a howling
nianiao instead, so the prophetess got there all the
Same.
j* 4? *
The Queensland Government has decided
in ban 0, Horrocks, aged 17 years, for the murder of
his mate Weismuller, Perhaps Judge Wmdeyer,
; v j n Brisbane, who has always entertained a
marked aversion to the judicial choking of young
people will kindly intervene on the side of mercy.
M. Loir, Pasteur’s Australian representa-
tive, is here with a vaccine for the cure of “ black-
leg.” There is a big field for him on Broken Hill.
The luxuried classes have, after all, to suffer
for the miseries of the poor. A witness at Glas-
gow Trades Union Congress said she made clothes
for the Duke of York in a fever-stricken house,
next door to another in which a child was dying.
According to the dailies of 14th inst.,
Constable Fairhill—damaged about the head at
Broken Hill—was in “a critical condition.” Next
day’s issue reported him “ almost recovered.” If
the strikers were half as bloodthirsty as the papers,
there wouldn’t be a live policeman left on the
Barrier.
Central Australian (Bourke, N.S.W.)
has changed hands.
“Rightly or wrongly,” it says, “ this journal has come
to be looked upon by many as run for the sole purpose of
advertising Mr. W. N. Willis. We desire to state here
distinctly, those days are past.”
Mrs. Dr. Brain-
red Ryder doesn't
hesitate to “ lay it on
thick ” in her quiet
way. In Melbourne
she was most deeply
impressed by the
noble character of the
ladies. And to what
did Mrs. Dr. Ryder
attribute this extra-
ordinary mental
beauty of the sex?
To the men, it ap-
peared, inasmuch as
“ the women of every
country are what the
men make them. ”
Now, if The Bulle-
tin wished to butter
both sides of the race
at once, it would give
credit to the women
of Australia for mak-
ing the men so noble.
City Newspaper
Co. v. Melbourne
Standard is a com-
ing plum for the law-
yers down South.
The Standard will
have to show cause
why it didn’t sell
itself and its uncalled
capital to a syndicate,
according to the
terms of some mys-
terious agreement.
Matthew Davies, Bal-
four & Co. (of the then
moribund Daily
Telegraph proprie-
tary) were _ seemingly
interested in the deal
that didn’t come off.
Anyway, Rev. Fit-
chett is to be a lead-
ing witness for the
plaintiff, and the
Standard’ people
have engaged Purves,
Q.C., to get the heart
of Eitchett into his
mouth, that he may
gnaw it, may gnaw it.
Those last few words
are quoted from a
tragedy and must be taken in a Pickwickian sense.
In the porch \of a wealthy Melbourne
suburban church, on Sunday week, was an appeal,
written by the incumbent, for the prayers of the
congregation on behalf of a destitute woman, who
desired that friends might be raised up to her.
Not very far away is the church where the parson’s
wife angrily wrote up in the vestry: “ Last
Sunday’s collection was two shillings and nine-
pence.”
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe’s Schnapps,
“ It struck me as being very remarkable
that nearly all the facial types of the different
races of the world are repeated in New Guinea. I
have seen Jews, Chinamen, Malays, Japanese,
Greeks, Turks, and Circassians ; even the map of
Ireland is to be seen in the copper-coloured
features of some of the natives.” —Extract from a
diary kept in New Guinea,
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps
From a love-letter lately read ’in are
English breach-of-promise suit; —
I wish, my darling, that you w'ould not write me such-
long letters. If you were to bring an action for breach of
promise against me, the lawyers would copy the corres-
pondence between us and charge fourpence for every
seventy-two words. The shorter the letters the more we-
save from the law'yers.
And the lawyers did copy out that sad, solemn
admonition, and charge for it, and the young man
was cast in heavy damages. The young man who-
breaks off his engagement in the old, coarse, in-
artistic fashion always gets left. The only
scientific manner of breaking an engagement is to
make the girl do it, and about the best way to-
arrive at that consummation is to buy a red tie and
read the_ Parliamentary debates to her regularly.
A man in a red tie reading the debate on the
Financial Statement right through will disgust
almost any girl.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, -£3 3s. Bkaham and Mutch,.
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
“My offence is rank.”—Dibbs.
As a rule, Sydney Echo’s ostensible wit is
Dickens and slops. The exceptions are slops
neat. Exception :
Most people, however, will be inclined to believe, as
Mrs. Gamp did of the apocryphal Mrs. Harris, that
“ there ain’t no siteh a pusson !”
O, Betsy Prig! Betsy Prig! “Just enough of
learning to misquote.”
EVIDENTLY A MORAL RACE.
1ST. BLOOMING IDIOT: “Deah Bai, just made a discovery—not
one of my ancestors was a bachelor.”
2ND. DITTO DITTO: “Aha —a!”
“ Demos ” writes : “A year or two ago,
Sir M. H. Davies complained to the publisher of
my Imperial Review, about what he called a
mischievous article, predicting that there would
be a downfall in Melbourne financial institutions.”
The Globe newspaper, London, lately
sent a reporter to interview the Daily Telegraph
editor as to whether that paper was about to
desert the Unionists. Then another paper sent a
reporter to Ingram, of the Illustrated News, to
ask whether his mother was going to be married.
And a Melbourne reporter once went to ask a
gentleman whether it was true he had married the
Governor’s daughter.
Dear Bulletin, — I saw an idea in your
issue of the 6th, from one of your correspondents,
about rabbit-killing with peas. I haven’t tried it,
and don’t intend to. I commenced operations
once, with the same object in view, in free and
happy England, and got run in for my pains. It
happened in this way. I rented a house and
garden from the lord of the manor, in a parish
not far from Canterbury, and tried all I could to
block out the rodents, to no purpose. One day I
told an old man my trouble, and this is the plan
he gave me. Get a Swede turnip; slice it up fine;
spread the slices round the garden, and sprinkle
them with cayenne pepper, and you will have no
more trouble. I asked him what would be the
result. “ Well,” he replied, “the rabbits will rush
the turnips and get a good sniff at them which
will make them sneeze so much that they’ll break
their necks.” Whether this plan is go6d or other-
wise, I cannot say, for while I was using the
pepper that day a gamekeeper came up and swore
I was laying poison for the squire’s game. I never
saw him till he nabbed me. Result, ■£3 15s. fine,
11s. 6d. costs.—Yours, &c., Wheat,smith.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, £‘S .3s. Bra ham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’s
Eucalypti? Extract is unrivalled.
The Man Outside.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I have rented me a room
In the close, oppressive gloom
Of a narrow street, where I
Watch the people passing by
In the morn and afternoon,
With the sun and with the moon.
Oh, the people
As I watch them ever hither, thither, whirled
g a y j “ What a lot of us are in the world !”
Though a little cramped for space,
’Tis a very pleasant place;
There are volumes —laid awry—
Musty-looking books and dry,
But the cover so deceives,
There is language on the leaves—
The golden leaves !
As I sit .and turn them o’er and o’er at night,
They appeal to me in words sublime and bright.
So surprising bright are they
That I sometimes also say :
“ Man is mortal, but behind
Oft he leaves immortal mind,
Bound in card-board, gilt, and calf,
Leaves he thus the better half,
Yes, the better,
Far the better portion of his double self
Lying urued in volumed silence on the shelf.
Thus, you see, despite the gloom
I arn happy in my room ;
And, to tell the truth to you,
There’s another reason, too,
For a something dear, divine,
Breathes upon that lair of mine—
Potent reason.
Reason pure and true and nobly great and grand,
Reason few of us, perhaps, can understand.
Now, the window of my “lair”
Opens on the pavement, where
Morning, afternoon, and eve,
In a way you’d scarce believe,
Backward, forward, to and fro,
To their occupations go
Busy people
Weary people, people always on the move,
Ever walking, walking ever in a groove.
But between that world and mine
There is nailed a boarded sign,
Making thus a six-foot space
A.t the entrance of the place—
Six feet long and two in breadth,
Just the room required in death,
For, you know,
That within the narrow space these words suggest
Living people always lay the dead to rest.
And the hoarding of the shop,
With the balcony on top,
And the next-door neighbour’s wall
Make a break wind—that is all.
That is all, but much indeed
When you feel a certain need,
And the people,
They who constitute a nation’s might and pride,
Rave, at Nature’s bidding, all withdrawn inside.
When the clamour of the day
Into midnight dies away,
When the trams have ceased to run,
When the weary hours are done,
Then there’s only in the street
The policeman on his beat,
Who awake,
While the silent city dark deserted sleeps,
All alone his watchful lynx-eyed vigil keeps.
As the guardian of the peace,
When the hours of night decrease,
With a foot severe and grave,
Tramps the loud-resounding pave
(I can hear him as I lie
Corning up and passing by),
„ To myself
s P met ' mes sadly, sometimes half in awe :
w hat a many-armed creature is the Law !”
When the street is still at last,
When the constable has passed,
As I toss and turn and twist,
frying hard to get to rest,
Knowing that the hour is late—
Cn its hinges creaks the gate,
a . . Oh ! so softly,
u the other—l have never seen his face-
t's and crawls into his nightly-resting-place.
I have never heard his name,
But each night and each the same,
As I wait the gate will slide
And he crawls to rest— outside,
fis a cause to me of doubt
Row he found the corner out;
T . But he comes
AnH tl S without—softly comes he in,
f near him snoring from my bed within.
In the chilly morning gloom,
Just outside my ground-floor room.
In a manner circumspect,
Sleeps the human derelict ;
away from law and rain
fill the day comes round again—
The man outside.
The man outside my room, curled and cold and
bent,
Sleeps the outcast’s slumber on the hard cement.
And the woman where I stay,
In a tender woman’s way—
She is pitiful, but poor—
Takes the door-mat from the door.
And before the lights are out
Lays it softly down without,
For she knows
The well-trod nothing, which she puts aside.
Is a something very pleasing to the man outside.
Though the mat is worn a bit—
Most of you would laugh at it —
’Tis a gentle act and true —
All she has the power to do;
By his breathing I can tell
That it serves his purpose well,
For he sleeps
Gratefully, I fancy, till the human tide,
Rising in the morning, floats him off outside.
EDWIN J. BRADY.
In the Hut.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
They had been telling stookwhip-stories till the
tea in the old oil-keg was run out, and the smoke
in the hut was thick enough to be sawn. Toothey
Hoskins remembered a fellow on the Diamantina
who could cut down a cow with his whip, skin her,
and carve up the carcase. Spotted Boyd had cut
his way through two miles of thick scrub with a new
whip, and offered his “solemn oath” in corrobora-
tion. A white-headed youth, newly-arrived, had a
relative who could take a stockwhip in either
hand, and write the Lord’s Prayer on the bark
of a white gum with the left-hand weapon, whilst
playing a jig with the other on a tin dish at five
paces. Harry Clarke thought that “ pretty con-
siderable,” but he had met a fellow in Bourke
who could pull corks with every stroke of his
whip, and wind up a Waterbary watch by flicking
at it from reaching distance.
Presently the new arrival, with the clean-sweep
shave and cross-bred eyes, ventured to remark.
He was an inconsistent man, who had excited grave
suspicion by saying grace at tea, and had then
disarmed suspicion by pooling a bottle of rum big
enough to go twice round.
“Yes,” he said, “in knockin’round I’ve met
fellers thet could give yeh a hair-cut an’ shave
with a whip, nearly ; but tain’t many of ’em ken
make their abilities pay. I’ve on’y struck one
cove what gathered a pile handlin’a stockwhip.”
“ What’ could he do with it ?”
“Pick pockets.”
SILAS SNELL.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“ Subscriber ” (Tangle): Wliy deny a solicitor
the right to advertise if he feels that way inclined ?
“Michael Williams” (Waverley, N.S.VY); The total popu-
lation of the U.S. at the end of 1890 was estimated (Mul-
hall) at 62,481,000 ; it is probably now over 65,000,000...
“ VV.E.K.” ; Force of will is the only remedy “Omeo”:
Tattersall.... “ W.A.S.” : Bill A. in type “Fleniing-
ton” (and 700 others): Thanks for your correction
“H.C.” (Gunning): Have written to B “Ellen-
borough ” (St. Kilda, V.): If you forward copy of ticket
to Price Waning, care this office, he will inform you of
the destination of the block of land. He has many papers
in the case “ Subscriber ” (Boss, M.E.): Sorry, but as
the two councillors were hauled off before either was per-
manently crippled we can’t publish. Send us something
about a dead councillor.... “ Boko ” : Your metre should
be sent to the Chicago Exhibition or Chamber of Horrors
or somewhere... “Mek” (Melbourne): (1) Metre goes
sideways, like a crab. (2) The desire to be with your love
in the “ horrible din of battle” is bosh. She would pro-
bably be galloped over by an ammunition waggon...,
“Yermyn”: Your Scriptural style is out of date. The
old prophets had time to wander all round their subject;
we haven’t.. .“W.C.” (Noosa); No, thank you
“Exile”: Parkes musing in a column of blank verse is
too heavy. Nobody muses nowadays, in any case
“The Breaker”; Story looks improbable enough to be
true. Where does the economy come in? “ Barnacle” :
A tale that only leads up to the presentation of a testi-
monial lacks excitement... “W. May” (Northampton):
“My Tory Friend” is dreary “Demos”: When you
state that “ the entertainment was varied by a little of
the histrionic by an aspirant for elocutionary honours,”
you evidently mean that Smith recited. Why don’t you
say so? ...“Wombat”; The Banjo-Lawson dispute is
closed right here as regards ourselves. Moreover, the
awful language of your small boy (aged 6) is better buried
in oblivion “J. B.” (Oxley): Uninteresting to all save
yourself, and it would cost £5OOO in damages “A Bad
Case” (Melb.): Don’t think much of the “Farewell to
llyley.” It omits all mention of his divine legs, which
are really his only important feature “Yermyn”;
You have evidently got G. Republican Dibbs on the brain,
and got him bad “ Wm. W.” (Crookwell): “ English ”
and “squeamish ” don’t rhyme, neither do “ wherefore ”
and “failure” and 20 more horrors of the same description.
“ Rivulet” (Perth): Many thanks “Bacoupidus”
(Woollahra): A better definition than yours: “Love is
that which makes one human being undertake to pay
another’s board and lodging, with power to add to their
number.” “J. C. M‘M.” (Castlemaine): That isn’t
“an incident which occurred not long since.” It is 50
years old at the lowest estimate “Pea Jay”: This
paper has shut down on ponderous writers about the
“ meejum of exchange.” The present writer’s own crude
idea is that, as the U.S. Treasury is choke full of silver
dollars, that country should pay off as much of its debt
as they will run to with barrow-loads of silver, and end
the difficulty right there. It’s no good saying people
won’ttakesilver. We’ve seen eight men fighting for a single
copper before now r ...“T.R.M.” (Melb.): Many thanks...
“E. 0.”: Musical criticism is always making itself ridi-
culous, not because the average critic is absolutely
ignorant of the subject he writes about, but because
custom requires him to affect a wisdom to which the most
experienced professor of music could never attain. More-
over, he is dreadfully apt to believe in himself. He writes
so many notices out of a sixteen-guinea musical dictionary
that at last he persuades himself that he compiled the dic-
tionary, and that all the drivel came out of his own preten-
tious skull...“ The Smoker” : Haven’tcome to them yet...
“Miner”: The evidence was destroyed, because it was
likely to implicate a high official in a notorious mining
scandal “ E. Rayson”: The Bulletin doesn’t print
the names of people in order to make them buy “our
valuable paper.” The Bulletin isn’t a valuable paper.
No right-minded person would read so vile a rag
“ Cay ” : Tyson doesn’t smoke, and that spoils your story.
“E. Cowley”: Show' us any man (Judas Chamber-
lain to the contrary notwithstanding) who has ever taken
anything like a front rank in politics after a course of
civic offices. Do you find any Australian politician with
statesmanlike pretensions among ex-mayors and coun-
cillors and aldermen ? Such people are the tail of the
Legislature, the narrow, pettifogging trash of Parliament.
“E. W. Jason”: We are now informed that in Tas-
mania the death penalty for all offences, save deliberate
murder, was abolished by 49 Vic., No. 22. The last man
to be executed for rape under the old law was Job Smith,
who was a “lifer” at Port Arthur when he committed
the offence... “X.”: “ Why the Triple Alliance ?” Why,
to squelch Italian Republicanism, the ideal of Mazzini
“La Cigale ” : Heaven ! Do you think we’ve nothing to
do but to take polls as to the popularity of mummers ? As
you were “ in New York last year ” you’re probably one
of the pair whom you wish advertised “Chas. T.”
(Wooll.) : Excellent—in type “ France ” : You haven’t
improved on Luther’s (per Thackeray) “Who loves not
woman, wine and song, remains a fool his whole iife
long.” And the men who do love them are mostly fools,
too “ Peter Block ” ; In type—perhaps in this issue...
•' Jas. Hannan ” : Without exaggeration, we have received
much over 100 corrections of the sporting mis-statement
in question. If we erroneously say that one sweated-
down mannikin rode a certain beast in a certain race a
legion of sages arise in judgment; but if any Australian
paper announced that “ Paradise Lost” was written by
■Jack Sheppard hardly a man among the sporting com-
munity would take the trouble to correct it even if he
knew’enough to do so.—“ Sport” (and 98 others): Are
you listening?... “Icon”; We are rather tired of the
genealogical aspect of S.A. po'itics... “A Scotch Girl”
(Brisbane): Try some tolerably original subject. What
you send is album verse, nicely written in places but
with many much-worn, constantly-recurring rhymes
“ W.H.” (Ad.): “Revenge” incident absolutely
hoary ; the other no joke “Corano”: No time
for private correspondence save in pressing eases
“ F.R.” ; An “ annexation ” from Zimmerman, isn’t it?..
“O.O.”: A position cannot be “ extremely unique.” If
it is unique it cannot be more or less unique. One might
as well say "that the Almighty is rather omniscient, or
tolerably "omnipotent “ Bushman ” : Over-rhymed
verse, and what a hackneyed subject! “Admirer”
(8.H.): If you come to Sydney, we’ll give you a note to
the right man .. “Anon.”: Yes, if a doctress is to suc-
ceed in her profession, she must work at it and take a
real interest in it as a man has to d 0... “Sam Cruralisk ” :
Sorry can’t tell. Tell us how the verses begin and we
may be able to help you “J.H.L.”: “Friendship”
and “ A Compliment ” are simply album-verses “New-
Chum”: Perfect as verse, and that’s a 11... “J.W.J.”:
Shockingly ignorant verse, and a fair sample of the cant
about “ professional agitators,” i.e., the agitators on the
other side “ Tasmanian Bushman ” : We may use it...
“ James C. H.” : Try again ... “ Jno. H. B.” (Maoriland):
The Bulletin never said Protection was a panacea for all
evils ; but it has ever maintained that M'Kinley is a better
man than Calico Jemmy “Bolero”: It is now quite
clear that no shots were fired at the Adelaide police-train
—unless by the police themselves.


The universal popularity of Ayer’s Hair Vigor
is the most convincing proof 01 its value as
Dressing for the Hair
When the hair becomes thin, faded, or pre-
maturely gray, this preparation restores all its
former color, fullness, and texture. Bland, cool,
and delightfully perfumed, Ayer’s Hai Vigor
prevents baldness, keeps the head free from
dandruff, and cures unsightly and troublesome
humors of the scalp Ladies desirous of hai
an abundance of sofl, silky tresses, and gen
men who wish to preserve their youthful ap-
pearance to an advanced age, would do well to
furnish their toilets with
Ayer’s Hair Vigor,
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Perfumers.
BROOME’S:MUSIC
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
w
or,
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
49. Call Me Back Again.
'253. Starlight Nell.
267. Then You’ll Remember Me.
298. White Wings.
410. Who’s that Calling so Sweet.
411. So-ng that Reached My Heart.
427. A Little Peach in an Orchard grew
528. Bogie Man.
566. Gipsy Countess (vocal duet)
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver in F.
! 569. Maggie Murphy's Home.
PIANOFORTE.
1 473. Athalie March. Mendelssohn.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively
THE HOLBOEK MUSIC STORES,
f 15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND.
Kvery class of Music and .Musical Instruments in Stock.
How to Learn “The Banjoin 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 18*5] TRADE SUPPLIED. [Est. 18*5
jail also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
HORLIGK’S
&
MALTED
MILK.
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS. For INVALIDS.
For THE AGED. For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick!)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
TUTALTED MILK, as a food for In-
ITI valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April xB, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
s's Maigliickch*
LiljofllieYaK*)
USUVIOHSE
■tiu«
LOHSE'S
HAIGLOCKCHEH
- LILY or THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are tbe most fashionable infbe world.
Sold by all bigb class'ferfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE. Berlin.
i
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THE WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
LABOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO Packets of the “RISING
SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
ŵ
B
CHANCELLOR'S f'/ak Pou/ds#
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers. ’
—THE-
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LMTD.
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: .... London, E.C.
Branches in Australia: MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE and ROCKHAMPTON.
BROKERS IN WOOL, GRAIN, TALLOW, HIDES, SKINS, LEATHER, ETC.
General Manager in Australia . .. DAVID ELDER.
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE DAY!
“PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
|3T“ Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize la
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
“BUDS,” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGAROS,” “KEY WEST” and “BUFFALO” CIGARS.
Sole Agents: JIH AKTIII A flO.
Everything in connection with the Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobaccoirsts supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
&: d O-, T otoa. cc o AHerdia.3i.ts,
669 GEORGE STREET (HAYMARKET), SYDNEY.
Streo-ige indeed hhaT h—
a
ma.ke.everything so bright, but
"A needle domes others,and is itself
naked’-Try itinyournexthouse-deeninfi
* S *COPV«(»HT*
What folly it would be to cut grass with a pair of scissors! Yet peo-
ple do equally silly things every day. Modern progress has grown up
from the hooked sickle to the swinging scythe and thence to the lawn
mower. So don’t use scissors!
But do you use SAPOLIO ? If you don’t you are as much behind the
age as if you cut grass with a dinner knife. Once there were no soaps.
Then one soap served all purposes. Now the sensible folks use one soap
in the toilet, another in the tub, one soap in the stables, and SAPOLIO
for all scouring and house-cleaning.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
A GEE AT REDUCTION.
Wewel’s Journal of Fashion.
Subscription:
Yearly .. 4 /-
Half-yearly .. 2/6
Single Copy ~ 6£d.
Catalogues, containing
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPER
PATTERNS of DRESSES,
MANTLES, etc., sold from 3d. to
2s. Sent post free on receipt of
postal note or postage stamps from the principal offices.
Sydney .. 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway).
Melbourne . 99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
ẁ
Post Free:
payable
in advance.
SYDNEY CATERING CO,
(LIMITED),
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
DINING and LUNCHEON ROOMS,
Under the superintendence of a high-class Chef.
MAGNIFICENT BAR.
(Upstairs.)
With BILLIARD ROOM contiguous, containing
Four of the most modern Tables.
FIRST-CLASS
lrrigation Colony,
Near ST. 'MARY’S and PENRITH, NEW SOUTH WA LES.
witnin Forty (40) Miles of Sydney on Western Ra,ilwa,y Line.
Horticultural Areas, Suburban Blocks, Town Lots, with Water Rights,
UOW BEADY FOB lUSFECTIQU A.3STX) SELECTION.
& COACHES RUN TWICE DAILY—PENRITH TO MULGOA. -«
For full particulars, apply to the Managing Director, Mulgoa, or to Sydney Agents,
XXardle '& G-orman, 133 Fltt Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Leslie Macdonald, the lardy-dardy downy
gentleman who manages the W. R. Wilson stable, has been
asked to express bis views on the totalisator question, and,
being a Scotchman, has expressed ’em without stopping
to consider his own infinite humour. He starts by say-
ing that the machine, on the course, would “ do avvav
altogether with preliminary betting,” but why owners
should leave off wanting to back their horses at long odds,
and bookmakers should cease fiom being anxious to
accommodate them simply because the tote laj s starting-
prices to people who put on their little bit at the last
minute, is a mystery which the gentleman doesn’t attempt
to unravel. Another of his objections to the tote is that
it tends to check excitement (by which he must mean
blasphemy and row); but considering that no machine
can stop Macdonald from standing on his head, if he feels
so disposed, we don’t see that he proves his case. What
is to prevent owners and owner’s managers from betting
with bookmakers and enjoying all the excitement to them-
selves, whilst the foolish outside public ignore the
opportunities of being happy ? We give it up.
“At present,” says Macdonald, “a bookmaker
is able to offer an owner a fair price against
his horse because he has the money placed by the
public on other horses to operate with.” That’s exactly
the position of the tote ; also, it is still the position cf the
bookmaker who bets “preliminary” and gets round on
his book before the day of the race. As an inventor of
fictions, Leslie Macdonald is seriously stupid. As a dis-
closer of facts he is seriously funny. “Owners will
necessarily decline to allow their operations to be open to
the public gaze,” croaks the sage. That is to say, some
owners wouldn’t like everybody to know that they are
operating on another owner’s horse instead of on their
own. But if all owners run their animals to win, and
back them with the totalisator as they now back them
with the evil looking Hebrews, the public can do no more
than follow their private fancies with the same ill success
as they have hitherto done. And the owner and public
who back the best horse will win the money (less a
percentage) of the owners and public who back the
horses that are not best, and what the dickens else could
they do, anyway ? To talk of the totalisator “ confining
a win to £5OOO at the outside ” is mere Macdonald drivel.
The supply of totes, like the supply of Ikey Moseses, will
always he equal to the demand, and there can be an
extra special high-priced tote “for owners only” it they
want it,
* * *
The sporting intellect of Melbourne is just now
concentrated upon a question of goal kicking. Two rival
footballers are understood to be engaged in a desperate
struggle for a trophy which some amiable idiot offers to
the man who kicks most goals in premiership matches.
The champion kicker of last season came with a “ bril-
liant rush ” the other Saturday, and took so many goals
in one match that he is likely to become champion kicker
of this season. A mere trophy, it appears, would not do
justice to a performance of such magnitude, so in the
event of Victoria boasting a double champion kicker, his
club will probably call upon the Government to do some-
thing for him.
“ What sort of precautions is the Duke of West-
minster now taking to prevent Orme being again poisoned
before next Wednesday’s big event?” asked one of Pro-
prietor Evans’ numerous Sydney sporting publications—a
week after the event in question (the English St. Leger)
had been run.
* • *
All the Melbourne “sports” had their tips in
the Herald the night before the Suhivan-Corbett fight,
and, without exception, all tipped the “Slugger.” Next
day they all said Sullivan oughtn’t to have fought, as he
was too old, had no constitution, &c. Pastor Fitchett
now edits the Herald, Jim Middleton (for 20 years on the
paper) having left. The good pastor has a lot yet to learn
about slugging.
* # *
Sullivan was so confident of success that he had
a new play ready to star America in. He had now better
engage Corbett.
* * *
Melbourne bookmakers are surprised to find
what capital meals can be got for sixpence.
# # «
The Metrop. never has given a line to the Cup
running. Look at the infatuation which has gone on for
more than 20 years. So with the Hawkesbury and
Metrop. and Caulfield Cup.
• # *
They say that Leviathan Oxenham, Larry
Foley, Jem Fogarty, Charley Dunn, and Joe Goddard,
were all born within a mile on the Turon, N.S.W,
• • •
Racing over the sticks has a strange fascination
for some jockeys. A Queensland rider named Todd was
thrown, the other day, at Rockhampton, and had his leg
broken for the second time. Todd has had both legs and
both arms broken through falls, to say nothing of a few
ribs. A regular windfall for the local ambulance society.
* tt •
Sullivan thinks Jackson will beat Corbett.
Corbett has beaten Sullivan, Argument.
# * #
Cooktown (N.Q.) tote-men have met Treasurer
M’llwraith’s 2J per cent, tax on totalisator proceeds by
charging 12J- per cent, instead of 10 per cent, commission.
However, competition will soon prevent these individuals
from passing on to the public the taxes they, the black-
mailers, were meant to bear.
# # *
Maoriland for game ! It can offer deer-stalking,
the wild-boar chase, hare-coursing, rabbits, black swan,
paradise ducks, geese, teal, quail, pigeons, and wildfowl
in great varieties. The trout-fishing attractions are un-
surpassed anywhere.
Two Chinamen are billed for fisticuffs in a
Melbourne athletic hall.
• * *
Mischievous is the Melbourne football prize for
the best goal-kicker, reckoned on the totals, for it makes
a man play his own hand, or foot, instead of looking to
his side.
* « •
Jemmy Green writes, apropos of the calm offer
by a subscriber to Tatts. Sweep to halve the plunder, and
make sure, that one of his early experiences, in report-
ing, was over a moral show, Scriptural panorama, “sup-
portedby the clergy.-” There was a gift distribution,
first prize magnificent silver tea-service, and the entre-
preneur gave Jemmy ticket No. 240, with the remark,
“This might win it!” But he was too disgusted to go.
• * *
At the Sydney Rowing Club regatta, East
Sydney defeated Sydney in the Open Senior Eights.
Mercantiles ran third. Time was when the positions
would just about have been reversed.
* * #
Bbaidwood Dispatch says Richardson is a
noni de combat, and that the boxer who defeated Phea-
sant bears the name of Jim Dawson.
* # #
Frantic’s people made no secret that they brought
him down to win the A.J.O. Steeplechase. Fran- I
tic’s fencing is a treat to witness, and his performance
showed his party made no mistake in taking the old ’un’s
measure.
* * *
Jim Ryan states his willingness to meet Dan.
Creedon if the latter will fight for gate-money only. It is
scarcely necessary for the writer to remark that Ryan was
evidently not out “for keeps” when he met Pheasant.
# # *
“ Ironbark Jemmy,” Burge, is not likely to get
on another fight in the States. It is really wonderful how
long the Australians stood putting up good men to smash
their hands upon the iron mug of the erstwhile navvy. It
is related that when Jem was working on the Bondi sewer
he one day fell down a man-hole, and when a man was
sent down with a basket to bring up the remains he found
Burge fairly raising the roof of the sewer in swear words at
the smashing of a favourite, pipe.
• * *
Mick Ives ha<j no show with Jim Barron, and
was counted out in the fifth round. In the writer’s
opinion Barron is one of the world’s top-sawyers at his
weight, 10 stone.
# # #
Freetrader 11., who won the Tradesmen’s trot
at Lilliebridge, last week, has a head on him like a double
bass. Oliver Tasker, his owner, says he named the freak
of nature after Sir Henry Parkes, on account of the size
of his head, and his ability to come to the front.
How despicably mean seem (from th >
Press accounts) the petty official insults rul.lwi
into the Broken Hill strike-leaders ! It i s wortl
a small smile of contempt to be triumph-mo *
told that Sleath, Ferguson, Polkinghorne and
Bennetts were placed in the prisoners’ dock vvhil
Hum, Heberle, Hewitt and Butcher were accoim
modated with seats immediately in front of it.
“ I worked harder than ever I had done
in my life before, setting apart the hours for
dming, for everyone must dine Dibbs at Cen
tennial Hall. Which reminds us that there was
once an order of monks who were known as St
Anthony’s swine, because they were required by
their rules to eat four meals a day in witness of
the frailty of human nature.
The subpoena served on Mr. Whittingdale
Johnston, P.M., to attend as a witness in the
cases of alleged conspiracy against the strike-
leaders at Broken Hill, was a mere corollary of
the false position in which Mr. Johnston was
placed, or allowed to drift, by the N.S.W
Government, as pointed out by The Bulletin
last week. No magistrate should be allowed to
superintend the plan of campaign of either side ip
a war any more than he should be allowed to
“ Hooray for the complainant.”
Cancer is medically stated to be more
frequently fatal in Victoria than in any other
Australian province. During 30years 920 i deaths
from cancer have been recorded therein.
The N.S.W. Legislative Assembly last
week refused to pass the Australian Gaslight
Co.’s Electric-lighting Bill by 74 votes to 2. The
Council had put it through without a shudder.
The Bill was probably the most impudent thing
presented to the Legislature for 50 years. One
clause gave to the Co. with respect to the sale of
electric-light all the powers conferred with regard
to gas by their old Bill passed in the early forties
or thereabouts. Under that old crusted enact-
ment if a man failed to pay for his gas the Co.
could do all but hang him. If a house had once
been occupied by a tenant who eloped, the Co.
could keep it in darkness till the day of judgment
unless the landlord (who might have equally been
done out of his rent) or the next tenant paid the
old score. It is only a few years since the publi-
cation of the Parliamentary committee’s instruc-
tive report on the little games of the Sydney Gas
Co. aforesaid.
A PARADOX.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
Gcod times for the turf ? cries the prophet. No doubt,
For the sharp, the swell jockey, the trickster, and tout;
But for sport, honest men, and good horses, we know,
Good times will not come till the bettor times go.
H. F. O.


A good tip—smoke G N U N Darling cigars.
A rich, Appetizing "f
A truly surprising T
A saving, not wasting—-
Beautiful tasting—
Very fine flavoured "T
THE
LONDON
hnd SYDNEY
TEA co s TEA
1/3,1/6, 1/9 & 21- per lb.
201b.,251b„ & 401 b. Chests
delivered free to any RAIL-
WAY STATION or PORT IN
NEW SOUTH WALES.
M, H. MURRELL,
MANAGER.
mill limp
A well recommended T
Judicially blended
Comforting, pleasing,
Always appeasing,
Best sort of household “f*
all his own fault.
Sober Party ; “ Why didn’t you keep t°
Robertson’s Whisky ? Look at me ! I
drink nothing else ! ”
lE®'” Coupons with Every Case
•T 0I ? over 20 years’ experience,
' desires Re-Engagement, any capacity, un-
“« e •, 10n ,l'Lreferences and testimonials. Address
cnbe, Bulletin Office, Sydney.
It is averred that Gladstone’s Home Rule
excludes Ulster !
“German
Syrup”
Asthma.
“ I have been a greaf
sufferer from Asth-
ma and severe Colds
every Winter, and last Fall my
friends as well as myself thought
because of my feeble condition, and
great distress from constant cough-
ing, and inability to raise any of the
accumulated matter from my lungs,
that my time was close at hand.
When nearly worn out for want of
sleep and rest, a friend recommend-
ed me to try thy.valuable medicine,
Boschee’s German
Syrup. I am con-
fident it saved my
life. Almost the first
dose gave me great
relief and a gentle re-
freshing sleep, such as I had not had
for weeks. My cough began immedi-
ately to loosen and pass away, and
I found myself rapidly gaining in
health and weight. I am pleased
to inform thee —unsolicited—that I
am in excellent health and do cer-
tainly attribute it to thy Boschee’s
German Syrup. C. B. Stickney,
Picton, Ontario.” @
Gentle,
Refreshing
Sleep.
A BEILLIANT COMPLEXION
And Soft White Hands.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
v anish. like Magic
By a few applications of
professor Devon’s Complexion (Lotion.
Tlie most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
cl ar the face of all that is unsightly, hut one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. Beware of worthless counterfeits-they
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
As. (id., Stamps or P. 0.0.
Prof. DEVON,
2O Castlerbaqh Street (City), SYDNEY.
DEAF
By the use of PECK’S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drumc. RePevesnoises,&c.
in the head. Cures Deafness;
Send for book and partiou-
lars. Address the Sole
Agent : A. M. EAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne.
_ Miscellaneous.
FAC-SI Mi I Xj ES
Of the beautiful Academy Picture,
“HEADS OVER TAILS,”
By Miss DOROTHY TENNANT,
Which created such a sensation in London, can be
ettained (until further notice), FREE OF COST, by
forwarding to
LEVER BROS., L T .”
Claiv.nce Street, Sydney,
25 SUNLIGHT SOAP WRAPPERS,
With 50 it will he Framed, and with 100 Wrappers
Framed in Gilt.
This Picture is fit for any Drawing-room.
53P” Fifty (16 Silver and 31 Keyless) Watches will be
given the Quarter ending 30th June to Boys and Girls,
aired from IX to 11, who send in the most SUNLIGHT
SOAP WRAPPERS. If not successful one quarter, the
Coupons will be carried forward to the next, so that all
who try may get a prize.
tOl.l) lllill 11. PARIS EXIHRITIOV, 1880.
Your Clothes last longer with its use.
NO ROUGH HANDS WITH SUNLIGHT SOAP.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bcl let in and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
&
a
nm
MA&&
rsj .
r 'E ~ si' i
C'
40.000 in Use. Record, IJ9 words per iiilnnto.
Used by almost every Government Departmentin Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading' newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will net
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 flrst-cl.sss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY; J. E. Cunningham, 84 Elizabelh-st ; MEL-
BOURNE: C. S. Cunningham, Ludstohe Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co. ; ADELAIDE-
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J. Walch & Sons.
■JV/TRS. ANNA RUPPERT’S Lectures in England and
x ‘ America have made her famous as a Complexion
Specialist, and world-renowned, because of the excellence
of her valuable SKIN TONIC, which is a cure for acne,
eczema, oilyness, coarseness, discoloration, &c. Try it!
Harmless. Does not show. Is effective and permanent
12s. 6d. per bottle. Sydney Office, 153 Strand.
THE AUSTRALIA HOTEL,
CASTLEKEAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
JS ACKNOWLEDGED, by universal consent, to be the
PREMIER HOTEL OF AUSTRALIA,
and worthy to compare with the best in Europe and
America. The Australia has had the honour to enter-
tain some very illustrious visitors, amongst others -
Madame Sara Bernhardt, H. M. Stanley, Max O’Rell, Lord
Sheffield, Nellie Farren, Fred. Leslie, Sir Henry Norman,
etc., all of whom have expressed their delight with the
accommodation and attention shown them at The Aus-
tralia.
The Tariff includes all meals, and, range*
from 12s. 6d. per day.
HW" Communications should be addressed to
THE MANAGER.
MARSHALLS
TONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
* K S
i"flillliliiiiiniriniiiimin
IMki :•
Y V
GIVES NERVE POWER
3J=
MPROVES DIGESTION
ahuiimh
UWWIIIU
Bros.
498 8, 500 GEORGE STREET.
TS?A DF MA RK
A.ustral Clothiers.
Gent.’s Cape Overcoats—2s/- to 47/6.
Qcnt.’s Chesterfield Overcoats—ls/6 to 30/-.
Gent.’s “Austral" Business Suits 27/6
to 50/-.
Gent.’s D. T. Black Parramatta Cape Water-
proof Coat—3o/- to'66/- (sewn seams, and
guaranteed).
OUR CELEBRATED
H.R.H WHITE SHIRTS
(made by Welch, Margetson & Co.)
For Fit and Quality Unrivalled.
25/6, 33/-, 37'6, 42/-, 45/-,
the Half Dozen.
Gent.’s Silk Umbrellas 8/6 to 45/-.
MERCERS, HATTERS, and JUVENILE CLOTHIERS.
dag*
Js. Always fhe- Best
Shipping.
N G LAND VI A AMER I 0 A
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco EVERY FOUR WEEKS, sailing as under:-
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu San and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land ;
SALOON £O3 and £GG.
Combination Ticket. £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O ISs. 9d.'
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
lor time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
IREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
QOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI*
TIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
>i»T?n e ,!iSfVr booked t 0 KURRACHEE. BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £63,
me.lining table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RLI CUN TICKETS issued at the following rates: —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. 13. Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
A. CONIL, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
FOR
HANGINGS,
Oils,Colours 4 Paints.
wall papers from 3°
P/U|N I©.
BathurstSt
d Hi ll , :—*
I P£
ROL
I
IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to Castle-
reagh-street),
Between King I Market Sts.,
SVOVKV.
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carle.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
l?()I)OLl>H HWDO&, Manageit,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25.. post paid.
GOLDENS H A N T Y.
Judging from a leader in the Australian
St'vr, h is pretty plain that a junior barrister will
be appointed to succeed Mr. Benjamin Lee on the
magisterial bench at Sydney.
“The N.S.W. Chief Justice,” remarks a
Sunday paper, “ takes a proper view of the high
mission of that section of the Press which is
honourably conducted.” The Stale Foul, for
instance.
Ilev. Duncan Macgrogor, of Philadelphia,
preaching on Carnegie and Go. : “The dash of
bullets and blood, of wrathful women, and woeful
sounds of cries and carnage, was the dashing surge
of a great subterranean sea, that chafes under all
Governments.”
A New' York journalist, called upon to
respond to the toast of the “ Independence of the
Press,” at a banquet recently, refused at first, but
then said: “If you will have it, take it. I am
paid 150 dollars a week for keeping honest
opinions out of the paper. We are tools and
vassals of rich men behind the scenes, jumping-
jacks, while they pull the string. We are intel-
lectual prostitutes.”
Messrs. J. Albert and Son, of 108 King'
street, Sydney, have introduced a wonderful
instrument! called the “ Autoharp or self-p aying
Zither,” which possesses the good qualities of all
other musical instruments. It is similar in shape
to the zither, having padded mutes or bars placed
over the strings. By pressing one of these bars,
and running the fingers over the strings, perfect
chords are produced. By this construction any-
one— (wen those without any musical knowledge
are enabled with but very little practice, to play
the most difficult airs with effect. These instru-
ments may be played together with the violin,
accompanying songs, and also played upon by itself
by a novice who only two days previously "didn’t
know even the name of it. The instrument only
measures about 18in. x Sin. in size, and 2in. in
thickness. Messrs. J. Albert and Son have the
best selected stock in Australia of music, instru-
ments, and musical toys, of which descriptive
catalogue will be forwarded post free on applica-
tion to any part of Australasia.


■— ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
'wmmm
GOLD MEDAL
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS.
PURELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
OISCOVERED and REGISTERED toy
Herr XS^SS^TTSSEnST.
$# JlRRasmussen Esq
>•: O ASATW N_ of C RATi TU D t c'i f- "• ■
C«* fwNMSprws *fum nj : 1
uT/hmS £ &
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWORN TESTIMONY-
Statutory Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows : —■
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassraussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the P«ace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervous Debility of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful, to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to ray friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Dear Sir,—This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen—l am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both in my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassmussen.—Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.— E. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.—A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
JJerr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off,
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.—J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir,—One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.—P. H. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen.—l have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended them to
other sufferers : I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
iii
mm
i
HERR RASSMLSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the ‘‘ Centennial History of
N. S- Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Alfaline Vitality Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Pills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Special
Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Fills.
Guaranteed to cure Costiveness and the Biver and Kidneys. Boxes posted, Is. Cd.,
35., Cs. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Coug-h Fills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds, Boxes,
posted, 35., Os., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grey and falling off. Posted,
3s. and 6s.
Herr Rassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is. Posted, Is. 3d.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
he Genuine.
“ Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“ Centennial History of'N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“ It may not bo out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make im apology for referring to some of them. Mr.
Ramsden’s case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, who has been
a martyr to the demon Dyspepsia for more than two
years, after trying several “doctors” with no benefit what-
ever, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill, and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
cause of suffering humanity.”—Kangaroo Valley Pioneer,
N.S.W.
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness, including a
beautiful Gold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all parts of the world—are assured that he has saved a world
of suffering and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”— The Australian Workman.
—Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
proof that his Remedies have cured thousands* He was
awarded a Gold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies, and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales.”— The Essenden and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser.— lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.’’—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania.
Testimonials,
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using'your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, J
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A,
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases, Varicocle, Piles, Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative against disease of any kind. Ordinary course, 235. 6d.
posted. Special powerful double course, Itfs. 6d. posted. Boxes at
6s. and 12s.
547
Chief Head Depot:
CKEORO-IE STEEET,
SYDNEY.
Victorian Hoad Depot:
150 BOURKB STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
jpg'” l!i me lies sent, Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot;
154 RUNDLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
Remedies sent Duly Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
QUEEU STREET,
BRISBANE.
tS?"’ Remedies sent Duty Free.
THE GENUINE ALFAfJNE REM EDI ES CAN ONLY HE OBTAINED FROM THE A BOV EM ENT lON El) DEPOTS.
“ The HXTaa/txarsbl Ooctor.’’
A Valuable aiul Interesting' HKRBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. l s*
May be obtained from all Depots.
Importaiat.
Always send money by P.O. Older, and register all letters containing same. All correspondence
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “ The Alfalino Medical Guide,” sent free o»
receipt of addressed and 2d. stamped envelope.


Nothing smokes like a 6 N U N Darling.
Real enjoyable smoke, GNUN Darlings.
All tobacconists sell GNUN Darlings.
K
c
E
Afp \v» e 4p ol l of the relatives of the late
Oln’n .AX to thank his European and
kinrlh S f ,l en^s > and the public generally, for the
on ev ' n ced by them at the procession
on Sunday, 4th Sept.
(Signed) QUONG TART.
E-
_Bth Sept., 1892.
N °
Mr ttv of the relatives of the lace
the TnarU t tl>ank his Worship the Mayor,
nSS! CtOr^ eral of Police, the Transit Con>
eonrw.r.,; S anc ? } ress > tor their services rendered in
Sept.' U ° n Wlt “ tlle Procession on Sunday, 4th
Bt h Sept., 1892.
(Signed) QUONG TART.
In a sleeping-car.—Bride (iil tippet berth):
“Djirling!” Groom (in lower berth): “Yes,
precious.” Bride: “I’ve found something I’ve
been looking for ever since my 16th. birthday.”
Groom: “What’s that, darling?” Bride: “A
man under my bed.”
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGDRATOJ!
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug
26, ’9O, says : —“ 1 think them such Very
good stays, and those you Sent for Uiy
daughter answered admirably, ji
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
bf Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.E.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Diapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
Government Notices.
General Post Office, Sydney)
September 0, 1802;
ONVISYANCE OP M A I L S.
CONVEYANCE being required for the POSF
OFFICE MAILS to and from the undermentioned
places, persons willing to contract for the same are
invited to transmit TENDERS in the approved
form before 11 a.m. on MONDAY, the 17th
October next.
Tenders must be addressed to the Secretary to
the Post Office, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender
for Conveyance of Mails.”
The figure at the end of each line indicates the
number of trips to be made each way weekly.
For full particulars see Government Gazette.
1. Railway Station and Post-office, Parramatta,
nine times or oftener daily
2. Railway Station, Parramatta, and Post-offices,
Parramatta, Baulkham Hills, and Castle
Hill, 12; and Castle Hill and North Dural, 6
3. Baulkham Hills and Rouse Hill, 6
4. Seven Hills and Toongabbie, 6
5. Blacktown and Prospect Reservoir, 6
6. Windsor and Wilberforce, G
7. Windsor and Wiseman’s Ferry, 2
8. Windsor and Pitt Town, 4
9. Wilberforce and Sackville Reach, 6
10. Richmond and Agnes Banks, 6
11. Kurragong and Kurragong Heights, 6
12. Penrith and Blandilo, 2
13. Hartley and Hampton, 3
14. Cudgegong and Gulmagree, 2
15. Railway Station and Post-office, Rylstone,
twice or oftener daily
16. Railway Station and Post-office, Mudgee, once
or oftener daily
17. Mudgee and Crudine, 2
18. Mudgee and Merindee, 3
19. Mudgee and Cassilis, 3
20. Home Rule and Canadian Lead, 6
21. Gulgong and Ooolah, 3
22. Rydal and Sunny Corner, 6 ; and Sunny
Corner and Yetholme, 3
23. West Mitchell and Palmer’s Oakey, 2
24. Parana and Oberon, G
25. Oberon and Black Springs, 3 ; Black Springs
and Arkstone, 1; Black Springs and Porter’s
Retreat, 2; and Porter’s Retreat and Jer-
rong, 1
26. Oberon and Jenolan Caves, G, from Ist January
to the 30th April, and from the Ist October
to the 31st December; and from the Ist
May to the 30th September
27. O’Connell and Essington, 2
28. Raglan and Glanmire, once or oftener daily
29. Railway Station and Post-office, Bathurst,
twice or oftener daily
30. Bathurst and Esrom, 6; and Esrom and Fitz-
gerald’s Valley, 3
31. Bathurst and Freemantle, 1
32. Peel and Limekilns, 2
33. Sofala and Hill End, 3
34. George’s Plains and Rockley, 6
35. Newbridge and Caloola, 3
36. Railway Station and Post-office, Blayney, three
times or oftener daily
37. Mount M‘Donald and Darby’s Falls, 2
38. Mount M‘Donald and Reid’s Flat, 1
39. Railway Station and Post-office, Oowra, twice
or oftener daily
40. Milthorpe and Forest Reefs, 3 ; and Forest
Reefs and Cadia, 1
41. Orange and Lucknow, 6
42. Orange and Lewis Ponds, 6
43. Orange and March, 2
44. Canowindra and Eugowra, 2
45. Railway Station, Borenore, and Post-offices,
Borenore, and Forbes, 6
46. Forbes and Dandaloo, 2
47. Condobolin and Eauabalong, 2
48. Eauabalong and Hillston, 2
49. Hillston arid Booligal, 2
50. Eauabalong and Lake Cudgcllico, I
WESTERN ROADS.
Government Notices;
51. Molong and Parkes, 6
52. Mullion Creek and Kangarooble, 2
53. Dripstone and Neurea, 6; and Neurea and
Baker’s Swamp, 2
54. Railway Station and Post-office, Wellington,
twice or oftener daily
55. Wellington and Arthurville, 2
56. Railway Station and Post-office, Dubbo, twice
or oftener daily
57. Dubbo and Coonamble, 3
58. Dubbo and Tenandra, 2
59. Dubbo and Obley, 2
60. Tomingley and Dandaloo, 3
61.. Coonamble and Walgett, 2
62. Coonamble and Baradine, I
63. Warren and Carinda, 2
64. Nyngan and Gongolgon, 2
65. Monkey and Brewarrinn, 1
66. Cannonbar and Colane, 1
67; Cannonbar and Brewarrina, 1
08. Byroclt and Brewarrinn. 3
69. TarCpoh and Beeraery, 1
70. Brewarrina and Goodooga, 1
71. Brewarrina and Goodoogn, 1
72. Bourke and Goodooga, 1
73. Bourke and North Bourke, 6
74. Bourke and Barringun, 2
75. Bourke and the Cornish, Scottish, and Austra-
lian Copper Mine, 1
76. Bourke and Wanaaring, 1
SOUTHERN ROADS.
1. Railway Station and Post-oSi!; •, fdvetliools
as often as required
2. Liverpool and Hoxton Park, 6
3. Liverpool and Eckersloy, 2
4. Bringelly and Wallace, 6
5. Camden and Werombi, 6
6. Camden and Mount Hunter, 6
7. Bowral and Robertson, 6
8. Moss Yale and Mery la, 2
9. Sutton Forest and Cross Run Is, 4
10. Sutherland and Cronulla Bench, 6
11. Railway Station, Dapto, and Post offices,
Dapto and Brownsville, twice a day
12. “Turn-off” and Foxground, 6
13. Barrengarry and Bendeela, 5
14. Kangaroo Valley and Berry, 6
15. Berry and Coolangatta, 6
16. Berry and Woodhill, 3
17. Nowra and Barrier, 2
18. Nowra and Ulladulla, 6
19. Nowra and Greenwell Point, 6
20. Milton and Bateman’s Bay, 1
21. Milton and Bateman’s Bny, I
22. Brooman and Briinbramalln, 1
23. Ulladulla and Kiola, 1
24. Place where the mails are lan led by boat or
wharf, Bateman’s Bay, ns required, and
Post-offices, Bateman’s Bay and Mur ;ya, 3
25. Marulan and Bungonia, 0
26. Railway Station and Post-office, Goulburn,
six or seven times, or oftener, daily
27. Goulburn and Crookwell, 6
28. Goulburn and Crookwell. 3
29. Goulburn and Inveralochy, (i
30. Crookwell and Pejar, 3
31. Crookwell and Junction Point, 3
32. Bigga and Lyndhurst, 1
•83. Bigga and Mount M‘Donald, 1
34. Wheeo and Mewburn, 2 j and Mewburn and
Reid’s Flat, 1
35. Taralga and Golspie, 2
36; Tarago and Moruya, 0 j and Braid Wood and
iteidsVale, 2
87. Quoailbeyan and ThariVa, 3
38. Tharwa ahd Rotik Valley, 1
39. Cooma and Jindabyne, 3 ; with a branch
mail to and from Berridalc and Buckley’s
Crossing-place, 3
40. Cooma and Rosedale, 1
41. Nimitybelle and Bobundarah, 1
42. Nimitybelle and Kybean, 1 or 2
43. Bombala and Wright’s (Tombung), 1
44. Cathcart and Candelo, 2
45. Braidwood and Nelligen, 3
46. Braidwood and Major’s Creek, 3
47. Oobargo and Bermagui, 2
48. Bega and Merimbula, 1
49. Rocks Landing-place or Merimbula Wharf,
as required, and Post-offices, Merimbula and
Pambula, 6
60. Merimbula and Bega; or Tathra and Bega,
on arrival and departure of steamers. (Con-
tractor to convey mails regularly twice a
Week Whether the steamer runs or not)
51. Eden and Towamba, 2
52. Breadalbane and Gurrundab, 2
53. Gunning and Dalton, 6
54. Dalton and Rye Park, 1
55. Rye Park and Burrowa, 3
56. Rye Park and Mewburn, 1
57. Yass and Queanbeyan, 3
58. Yass and Glenbower, 1
69. Murrumbateman and Nanama, 2
60. Bowning and Bookham, 3
61. Bookham and Tumut, 1
62. Binalong and Burrowa, 6; and Burrowa and
Young, 3
63. Burrowa and Cowra, 2
64. Murrumburrah and Barwang, 2
65. Murrumburrah and Beggan IDggan, 2
66. Grenfell and Bimbi, 2; Bimbi and Barmed-
man, 1
67. Bimbi and William’s Crossing, 1
68. Cootamundra and Jugiong, 1
69. Temora and Barmedman, 3
70. Coolac and Jugiong, 3
71. Gundagai and Tumut, G
72. Gundagai and Tumut, 6-
73. Adelong and Tumberumba, 1; and Adelong
and Tumberumba, 1
74. Gilmore and Batlow, 2
75. Tarcutta and Molloy’s, 3
76. Tumberumba and Jinjellic, 1
77. Bethungra and Ironbong, 2
78. Bullenbong and Narrandera, 2
79. Jerilderie and Darlington Point, 2
80. Jerilderie and Mulwala, 2
81. Oorowa and Berrigan, 2; and Berrigan and
Murray Hut, 1
82. Corowa and Carnsdale, 1
83. Gerogery and Walla Walla Homestead, 2
84. Railway Station and Post-office, Albury, 5
times or oftener daily
85. Coolaman and Ariafi, 2
86. Railway Station and Post-office, Narrandera,
twice or oftener daily
87. Mount Ida and Curlew Park, 1
88. From Darlington Point Post-office to Warcn-
gesda Mission Station, thence to the home-
steads of Cummings (Woodlands), E.
Lander, D. Fraser, Kook and Sons, L.
Lander, and thence to Darlington Point
Post-office, 2
89. Darlington Point and Hay, 3
90. Hay and Boligal, 3
91. Hay and Deniliquin, 6
92. Maude and Booroorban, 1
93. Booligal and Ivanhoe, 3; and Ivanhoe and
Wilcannia, 2
94. Booligal and Oxley, 1
95. Balranald and Wentworth, 3
96. Linnett's Junction Hotel and Pan Ban, 1
!17. Manfred Station and Gol Gol Station, 1
98. Broken Hill and Cuckburn, 3
government ftfotlc
99. Silverton and Purnamoota, 2
100. Euriowie and Victoria Hotel, 1
101. Milperinka and Mount Browne, 1
NORTHERN ROADS.
1. Manly and Bay View, 6 ; and Newport and
Barranjoey, 2
2. Railway Station and Post-office Gosford,
three times or oftener daily (including the
clearance of letter-boxes at East Gosford
and Victoria and George-streets, once a
day, and the railway station bos, three
times a day)
8. Gosford and Wambera), 3
4. Wyong Creek and Yarramalong, 3
5. Railway Station, Merisset, and Post-office,
Cooranbong, twice a day
G. Newcastle and Catherine Hill Bay, G; and
from Newcastle to Merewetber, 6
7. Charlestown and Dudley, 6
8. Railway Station, Waratah, and Post-office.
Wafatahj follt times or oftener daily ; and
Waratah and Wallsend-Plattsburg, G
9. Raymond Terrace and Nelson’s Plains, 0
10. Bulahdelah and Carba, 3
11. Bulahdelah and Coolongolook, 2
12. Coolongolook and Clarkson's Crossing, 1
13. Taree and Port Macquarie, G
14. Taree and Pampoolah, 3
15. Dingo Creek and Wherrol Flat, 3
16. Cundletown and Upper Lansdown, 2
17. Cundletown and Mitchell’s Island, 2
18. Port Macquarie and Kempsey, 0
19. Pott Macquarie and Beeehwood, 8
20. Telegraph Point and Upper Rolland’s Plains, 3
21. Kempsey and Arakoon, G
22. West Kempsey and Bellbrook, 1
23. Macksville and Bowraville, 3
24. Macksville and Taylor’s Arm, 1
25. Bowraville and Argent’s Hill, 2
26. Bellingen and Gleniffer, 1
27. Gresford and Lostock, 3
28. West Maitland and Clarence Town, G
29. Clarence Town and Brookfield, 3
30. Paterson and Dungog, 3
31. Bendolba and Underbank, 4
32. Wollombi and Central Wattagan, 3
33. Railway Station and Post-office, Branxton,
twice or oftener daily
34. Singleton and Jerry’s Plains, 3
35. Singleton and Glendon Brook, 3
36. Singleton and Mitchell’s Flat, 3
37. Boggy Flat and The Bulga, 3
38. Railway Station and Post office, Muswell
brook) twice or oftener daily
39. Muswellbrook and Denman, 6
40. Muswellbrook and Muscle Creek, 2
41. Denman and Merriwa, 6
42. Kerrabee and Woolar, 2
43. Merriwa and Cassilis, 3
44. Scone and Moonan Brook, 3
45. Quirindi and Colly Blue, 2
46. Quirindi and Goran Lake, 2
47. Railway Station and Post-pffice, Quipolly, 2
48. Curlewis and Wondoba, 3
49. Gunnedah and Westweller’s, 2
50. Mullaley and Launt’s, 2
51. Coonabarabran and Blantyre Station, 1
52. Railway Station and Post-office, Boggabri,
twice or oftener dady
53. Boggabri and Lindsay Station, 2
54. Boggabri and Penryn, 2; and Penryn and
Manilla, I
65. Boggabri and Rocky Glen, 1
56. Railway Station and Post-office, Narrabri,
once or oftener daily
67. Narrabri and Dumnore’s, 2
58. Narrabri and Bingara, 1
59. Pilliga and Yarraldool, 2
60. Walgett and Goodooga, 1
61. Walgett and Oarinda, 1
62. Meroe and Danvin’s, Crinoline, 2
63. Garah and Kunopia, 2
64. Kunopia and Goondiwindi, 1
65. Currabubula and Clifton Station, 2
66. Railway Station and Post-office, Tamworth,
three or four times or oftener daily
67. Attunga and Attunga Springs, 2
68. Manilla and Benderaeer, 1
69. Bingara and Bundarra, 1
70. Warialda and Yagobie, 1
71. Wallangra and Goondiwindi, 2
72. Walcha and Yarrowitch, 2
73. Railway Station and Post-office, Uralla,
twice or oftener daily
74. Uralla and Bundarra, 3
75. Uralla and Mount Sherwood, 2
76. Balala and Kingston, 1
77. Kingston and Oraban, 1
78. Armidale and Bundarra, 2
79. Armidale and Oban, 1; and Armidale and
Oban, 1
80. Armidale and Booroolong, 3
81. Cooney Creek and Hillgrove West, 6
82. Hillgrove and Kempsey, 1
83. Guyra and Bear Hill, 1
84. Glen Innes and Inverell, 6
85. Inverell and Wilson’s, 3
86. Inverell and Warialda, 3
87. Inverell and Bonshaw, 2
88. Inverell and Wallangra, 2
89. Bukkulla Station and Pindari, 2
90. Tenterfield and Willson’s Downfall, 2
91. Tenterfield and Drake, 6
92. Drake and Pretty Gully, 1
93. Tabulam and Tooloom, 1
94. Tooloom and Killarney, 2
95. Tooloom and Killarney, 2
96. Ulmarra and Upper Coldstream, 2
97. Steamers’ Wharf, Grafton, and Post-office,
Grafton, on arrival and departure of steamers
98. Grafton and Southgate, 2
99. South Grafton and Ramornie, 2
100. Coff’s Harbour and Upper Orara, 2
101. Lismore and Brunswick, 2; with a branch
mail to and from Coorabell Creek and Byron
Bay, 1
102. Lismore and Balhna, 3
103. Lismore and Rose Bank, 2
104. Wollongbar and Pearce’s Creek, 2
105. Warded and Alstonville, 2
106. Coorabell Creek and Mullumbimby, 2
107. Tumbulgum and Tweed Heads, 6
SUBURBAN ROADS.
1. General Post Office, Sydney, and Wharf, oi
Wharfs, and Red fern Railway Station,
and General Post-Office, Sydney, and Red-
fern Railway Station, on arrival and do
parture of English Mails
2. General Post-office, Sydney, and Post-office,
North Sydney, thrice daily ; and to and
from the Post-office and Railway Station.
North Sydney, once or oftener daily as
required
3. Parramatta and Rydalmere, twice a day
4. Parramatta and Carlingford, twice a day
5. From Ashfield to Canterbury, thrice a day ;
and from Canterbury to Ashfield, twice o?
thrice a day as required
6. Canterbury and Belmore, six times a week
7. From Botany to Lower Botany and La Perouse,
via Coast Hospital, six times a week ; and
from La Perouse to Lower Botany and
Botany, six times a \yeek.
JOHN KIDD.
The meeting of Ban O’Connor and Blarney-
stone, in A.J.C. Derby, must have occasioned
some confusion.
The aboriginal population of N.S. Wales
now numbers but 7473—4458 full-bloods and 3015
half-castes. Next year, the “blend” will prob-
ably overtake the all-blacks.
Medical science has discovered that the
military step tends to produce a brain-jar. The
jar is unnecessary ; what the average soldier wants
is something to put in the pan he has already got.
Indisputable Endorse-
ment.
Auckland Star, May 7, 1892.
MOTHER ALBERTS REMEDIES.
In these days of patent medicines it requires
that certificates of excellence should be signed by
the names of persons of standing in the com-
munity. The herbal remedies put up by the Rev.
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert, of Jerusalem,
Wanganui River, have already been highly spoken
of, and elsewhere will "bo seen an advertisement
which publishes in full the testimony of such
eminent personages as Lord Onslow, Bishop
Grimes, of Christchurch, Bishop Redwood, of
Wellington, and, passing from the pulpit to the
stage, Mr. Walter Bentley. The latter acknow-
ledges the wonderful result to his voice from using
“Marupa.” Another preparation designated
“Karana ”is said to be quite equal to combating
most of the ills of life, and restores a broken-down
constitution. It is a vegetable tonic, pleasant to
take, and by no means hurtful in its action.
These valuable medicines are now being put up by
Messrs Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.
Takaka News, June 23, 1892.
MOTHER MARY JOSEPH ALBERT’S
REMEDIES.
The efficacy of the New Zealand herbal remedies
prepared by the Maoris is too well known by all
old settlers to need comment, and the wonderful
medicinal properties of several native shrubs have
been testified to by many in our midst. The
experience of a long life spent among the natives
in the North Island has induced a lady belonging
to a Religious Order of the Catholic Church to
make known to the public the several prepara-
tions, the marvellous effects of which she has
observed during her sojourn amongst the natives.
The testimonials which will be found in another
Column, are from those who, having derived great
benefit from the remedies, desire to testify to their
efficacy. When we find a Governor, a Bishop,
and a distinguished actor, unite in recommending
these preparations, it may be safely assumed that
it is because they deserve it. Full particulars of
the recently-established agency for this district
will be found elsewhere.
Evening Post, June 21, 1892.
From private letters received from Mr. Orlando
R. Kempthorne, who, as we stated some few
weeks ago, was proceeding to Sydney and Meh
bourne to introduce the Aubert remedies there,
we learn that he has been most successful in
getting the bulk goods that he took to Sydney put
up smartly, and disposed of in a very short time.
He has ordered more to be forwarded at once, as
he has none left to take to Melbourne. He states
that he has every reason to hope that his tour will
prove a gigantic success. The New South Wales
papers congratulate ■ Mr. Kempthorne on having
introduced into their colony a medicine that has
become so widely known and so warmly appre-
ciated in New Zealand.
Waieaeapa Daily, June 6, 1892.
Unsolicited testimony still continues to pour in
regarding the wonderful efficacy of Mother Mary
Joseph Aubert’s remedies. The marvellous cures
wrought upon persons well nigh at death’s door,
have caused a profound sensation, and on many
thousand tongues are words of gratitude and
blessing for the good lady who has devoted her
Me to the alleviation in some measure of the
world’s suffering.
Otago Daily Times, June 28, 1892.
Mr. O. R. Kempthorne, of the New Zealand
Drug Company, recently visited Sydney to in-
troduce there the Rev. Mother Mary J. Aubert’s
remedies, made entirely from New Zealand herbs
and plants, which have met with so much favour
ui this colony. He was most successful, the fame
of the curative properties of the remedies having
preceded their arrival, and it is satisfactory to
find that a new item has been added to our list of
exports, which it is expected will soon make its
way into the old country, where the remedies
have one warm friend in Lord Onslow.
New Zealand Standard, June 17, 1892.
f Remedies.—A new advertisement
rom Messrs Kempthorne, Prosser and 00., in
reference to the above, appears in another column,
hese remedies are daily becoming more famous
or their efficacy in the treatment of all sorts of
so much so that increased facilities have
au to be provided by the manufacturer for their
Pioduction. Mr. George Foster is the local agent.
Hawkes Bay Herald, July 2, 1892,
. Kempthorne, of the firm of Kempthorne,
w irosser, has lately been on a visit to Sydney
roi C °!i- ICC *'' 0n Mother Mary Joseph Aubert’s
nedies, and it appears that he has had wonder-
o^B!l?s6B3 there, the remedies having come into
great favour in New South Wales.


Wyandotte (N.Q.) is called after the
American town of that name. The telegraph
“call" for the latter place is “ Y.E.” —thus
or Y and dot. Wyandotte ! hence the
name.
Here is aN.S. W. Labour-Bureau- White!ey-
Kingite shearer’s account, after a shearing en-
gagement ; —“ To 4 weeks 4 days, at 255. per week,
.£5 Ids. Bd. By—soap, 25.; 11b. tobacco, 75.; Idoz.
matches, Is.; refund rail-fare Labour Bureau,
£2 Its. 9d. — balance due, £2 11s. lid.” Or
exactly Is. 10|d. per day for 28 working days ! If
the man had wanted a pair of striped socks and a
cotton handkerchief or two, he would have been
returned “ in debt ” to the station most probably.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 20, 1802.
r |LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5.
Supply of Cast-iron Water Pipes and Special
Castings, Bathurst Water Supply
Bridge, Box Creek, road Oxley to Tarrawong
Bridge, Coolac Creek, road Yass to Gundagai
Bridge, Greenwattle Creek, road Dunmore to
Clarence Town
Bridge, Moogin Creek, road Dunmore to Clarence
Town
Bridge, Bartie Creek, road Dunmore to Dungog
Bridge, Hanley's Creek, road Dunmore to Dungog
Repairs Post and Telegraph Office, Wentworth
Erection of Lands Office, Moree
Erection of Police Quarters, Bowna
Bridge, Bungonia Creek, at Bungunia
Erection of Cottage, Pilot Point, Richmond River
Additions, Biloela Gaol
Bridge, Skinner’s Gully, road Moree to Mungindi
Bridge, Orphan School Creek, at Canley Vale
Bridge, Headman’s Creek, road Dunmore to
Clarence Town
Tar-paving Roads, &c., Leper Hospital, Little
Bay
Drainage and Repairs to Black-lane, Prospect
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12.
ANNUAL CONTRACTS.
(A deposit of =£lo required on account of each
contract.)
SUPPLY OF
Anchors, Chains, &c.; Rope, &o.
Awnings, Sails, &c. ; Steel
Leather Belting, Hose, &c.
Ship Chandlery, Diving Gear
Brooms, Brushes, &c. ; Handles
Engineers’ Stores, Nos. 1 and 2
Carpets, Castings, Chairs
Boats, Clinker and Carvel built
Clocks, &c. ; Ironmongery
Hardwood, Kauri Pine
Oregon and American Redwood
Colonial Pine, Portland Cement
Draftsmen’s and Surveyors’ Instruments
Draftsmen’s Materials, Quarry Tools
India Rubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Plate, Bar Iron, &c. ; Furniture
Oils, Paints, &o.; Plumbers’ Materials
Copper and Lead Pipe, &c.
Wrought-iron Bucket Links
Wrought Scrap-iron Forgings
Wrought Iron manufactured in New South Wales
Stone for Maitland District
Stone for Parramatta District
Window Blinds ; Coal for Sydney
Coal at Lake Macquarie
Coal at Wollongong
Drain Pipes, Metropolitan and Illawarra Districts
Northern District
Western District
Southern District.
CONVEYANCE OF COAL.
Newcastle to Bellinger River
Newcastle to Cape Hawke
Newcastle to Clarence River
Newcastle to Cook’s River
Newcastle to Camden Haven
Newcastle to Hastings River
Newcastle to Macleay River
Newcastle to Manning River
Newcastle to Myall River
Newcastle to Nambucca River
Newcastle to Richmond River
Newcastle to Tweed River
Wollongong to Moruya
Wollongong to Shoalhaven.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19.
Supply of Cast Iron Pipes and Special Castings,
&0., Dubbo Water Supply
Supply of Cast-iron Pipes, &c., Jerilderie Water
Supply
Supply of about 20,000 tons Cast-iron Pipes,
and Special Castings, to be manufactured in
New South Wales
Bridge, Terrebola Creek, road Goodooga to Bre-
warrina
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
Bridge, Stoney Creek, at Farley, road Maitland
to Wollombi
Bridge, Cuffe’s Creek, road Bourke to Barringun
Bridge, Spring Creek-road, Gerraanton to Jin-
gellic
Repairs, Light-keeper’s Cottage, Tacking Point,
Port Macquarie
Bridge, Kirribee Creek, road Bourke to Hunger-
ford
Construction of Service Reservoir, Moss Vale
Water Supply
Construction of Storage Reservoir, Moss Vale
Water Supply.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2.
Bridge, Murray River, at Tocumwal. The iron-
work for this Bridge is to be manufactured
in the colonies
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lismore to Hang-
ing Rock, at Walsh’s Crossing.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to bo manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
John Graham, President of the Victorian
Trades’ Hall Council; —“ As for single men taking
less wage than married men, it must be evident
that were this to exist, the whole of the single
men would be employed before married men would
get a chance. Would this be desirable ?”
ANDREW USHER & CO.'S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co.’s Labels and Trade Marks as under :
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
OLD VATTED GLENLIVET WHI4KY,
AND
“ Usher's Special Reserve.”
KLAKE A RIVCIALL, Solicitors,
120 WII.LIAIt-ST., MELD,
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
& BOty-
&
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children s sweet)
L
i—i —■ - - vtS /
Lancet.
(^1
St. John’s Works, London W.C.
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Brillian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very economical for general use; it is
the best softener and beautifler of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Sites 3*. (!</., 75., and 10 1. 6 d.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONlAisapureand
fragrant toilet powder in three tints —white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is and 2s. 6 d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
w
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. Oil., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. Cd., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., ISs. (id., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. Cd., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d.; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
.machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
(Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autobarp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS:—Any respectable person in Town or Country
may purchase one or more instruments by paying Is.
deposit, and the remainder to be paid off by instalments
at Is. a week. Postage stamps will do for country cus-
tomers. (Agents wanted.) J. ALBERT & SON, 108 King-
street. Cheapest Music Warehouse in Australia. Illus-
trated catalogues and particulars posted FREE.
m
Sffl
m
I :
IMI
m
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M-im. PANZA. Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve LiaViility 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
MALTO-
QUIIMIA
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AGUE,
DEBILITY,
INFLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
AS
A Cure for
WINE.
Wholesale Agents;
LANGE «Sc THONEMAN,
91 El. ISO II It 91 K.
T. B. HALL & CO.’S
A.LE & ST O TJX.
BOA U’S
HEAD
BRAND.
IRADE MARK.
BOAR'S
HEAD
BRAND.
QUALITY UNSURPASSED.
Amusements.
»JIHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of tlie above Magnificent New Theatre arc
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
&T All Railway Travelling. TS&
Apply for particulars, cable address “ OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. B.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
BOOKS r~ SOOKS ! BOOKS !
tin light nuil Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
Furniture, etc.
Drawingroom suites.
LAWLER’S,
Drawingroom Suites GOB,
Drawingroom Suites GlO,
Drawingroom Suites Gl2,
Drawingroom Suites George Street,
Drawingroom Suites Sydney.
£7 10 0
8 10 0
10 10 0
12 10 0
14 10 0
16 10 0
CATALOGUES POST FREE
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Diningroom Suites LAWLER’S
Diningroom Suites STEAM
Diningroom Suites FACTORIES,
Diningroom Suites 1,2, 3, I, 5,
Diningroom Suites G, 7,8, 9, 10
Diningroom Suites UNION LANE.
ŵ
|3T ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES POST FREE
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
Bedroom Suites
LAWLERS
ILLUSTRATED
FURNISHING
GUIDES
POST
FREE.
ẁ
&T ASTONISHING VALUE THROUGHOUT.
JOHN LAWLER and SONS.
ASTONISHING VALUE THROUGHOUT.
Plain Pinewood LAWLER’S,
Plain Pinewood THE
Plain Pinewood COMPLETE
Plain Pinewood AN D
Plain Pinewood THROUGHOUT
Plain Pinewood FURNISHERS.
Tables, G/G
Tables, 8/0
Tables, 12, G
Safes, 11/6
Dressers, 17/G
Dressers, 45/-
ẃ
*C ic 01-OC
tH C\l O Ci <M
m°° LAWLER’S HAVE THE PALM
Foil BEDDING.
ẅ
Pure,
Wholesome,
And
Health-giving
Lawler’s
Bedding.
iKT INFORMATION FREELY SUPPLIED.
LAWLER and SONS
PROMPTLY ANSWER ALL INQUIRIES.
w
Halls,
Stairs,
Drawing,
Library
And
Diningrooms.
ts- FOR FURNISHING NIOKNACKS,
SPECIALISTS,
AND FOR TIP-TOP VALUE, TOO.
ŵ
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
Cheap
IST EVERY DEPARTMENT OF A
FURNISHING HOUSE
COMPLETE and THROUGHOUT
At
JOHN LAWLER AND SONS,
608, GEORGE-STREET,
SYDNEY.
Every inquiry attended to, and to the best of
our ability fullest possible information gladly sup-
plied.
LAWLER’S,
ESTABLISHED UPWARDS OF
.30 YEARS.
FURNITURE, BEDSTEADS, BEDDING, &c.
Amusements.
Q.ARRICK THE AT He
BRILLIANT SUCCESS ! BRILLIANT SUCCESS I
and
ENTHUSIASTIC RECEPTION
EMERSON «Sc WOOD’S
—ALABAMA—
L _ miustbels.
EVERY EVENING at S. ~~~
Prices—4s, 3s, 2s, and Is. Early door, Is Extra
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATR®
Under the Direction of Mr. Geo. Musgrove.
EVERY EVENING! EVERY EVENING !
Until Further Notice,-
The LONDON GAIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
in
“ Faust Up to Date.”
PRICES as USUAL, BOX PLAN at THEATRE
Manly Wild Flower Show.
MANLY WILD FLOWER SHOW.
OPEN
'■ AFTERNO o \
AND
J EVEN IN G.
ADMISSION —ONE SHILLING.
T H IT Tt SD.VY
F K I 1) A Y
SATII II I) A Y
May-Pole Dances every Afternoon and Evening.
Theatricals every Evening,.
RETURN STEAMERS—FARE, Is.
0T RETURN STEAMERS-FARE, Is.
Sporting.
NIMROD’S CONSULTATION
niELIJOURKTE CTJF.
Ran at Flemington, November 4, 1892.
10,000 at 10 10,000
FIRST, 2000; SECOND, 1000; THIRD, 500;
S. (divided', 700; N.S. (divided), 800.
Less 10 Per Cent.
The Drawing will takeplace at TATTERSALL’S HOTEL,
TOWNSVILLE, and if all the Shares are not taken up
the Prizes will be distributed pro rata.
Proprietor— “NlMßOD,” care of T. ENRIGHT,
Tattersall’s Hotel, TOWNSVILLE.
Reference, A..T.S. Bank, Townsville.
Persons making; Application are requested to send
Two Stamped Addressed Envelopes—one for reply and
one for result of Drawing.
Postal Notes, P.O. Orders and Cheques (with exchange
added), to be made payable to—
“ KTlmroci,”
Care of T. ENRIGHT, Tattersall’s Hotel , TomuviUe.
Register all Letters to Ensure Safe Delivery.
Gala’s Monster Prize List.
CAULFIELD C.-Oot. 15.
At 5 each. (50,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 5000; Second, 1250; Third, 1000; S (d), 1000;
N S (d), 1150 ; 10 at 100, 1000; 10 at £O, 500 ; 10 at 20,
200 ; 50 at 10, 500 ; 50 at 5, 250 ; 100 consolations at 2;
850 consolations at 1.
MELBOURNE C- Nov. 1.
At 5 each. (100,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 10,000: Second, 2500 ; Third, 1500 ; S (d), 2000;
N S (d), 2500 ;20 at 100, 2001,; 20 at 50, 1000 ; 20 at 20,
400 ; 100 at 10,1000 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 300 consolations at 2
each ; 1000 consolations at 1 each.
Every 1 invested has 32 separate chances.
State amount enclosed, and addressed envelopes with
application—one for receipt and the other for result.
Register. Address : GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-
street, Sydney, N:S.\V. For full particulars send for our
printed circulars.
jpATTE RS ALL’S
CAULFIELD CUP.
Run at Caulfield, in October, 1892.
50,000 at 10 50,000
MELBOURNE CUP
Run at Flemington, November 1,1892.
100,000 at 20 100,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
Address—“ TATTERSALL,” care of GEORGE
ADAMS, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
33 3310 18.
The ORIGINAL PROMOTER.
OYER 20 YEARS before the PUBLIC of NEW ZEALAND and NEW SOOTH WALES
MELBOURNE CUP.
20 Ka.ch 30,000 30 Eacb
FIRST, 8000; SECOND, 2000; THIRD, 1000; S. (divided), 1500; N.S. (divided), 2000 ; 5 at 100 each, 500; 30 at .
each, 1500 ;75at 20 each, 1500 ; 200 at 10 each, 2000. 310—extra—310.
MELBOURNE CUP.
XO Each 25,000 —XO Eacli
FIRST, 5009 ; SECOND, 1500 ; THIRD, 1000 ; S. (divided), 1000 ; N.S. (divided), 1000 ; 20 at 50 each, 1000 !25 at -
each, 500 ; 100 at 10 each, 1000 ; 100 at 5 each, 500. 245 - extra - 245. . _
Be sure and register your letters and take care of the P.O. receipt till you receive our reply. Thanking }
for past patronage and trusting for continuance of your support. Programmes Sent on Application.
Address—“ ADAM BEDE,” Care of Abbott, Post-office Chambers, Sydney.
TATTERSALLS MELBOURNE CUP.
JFtXJnXT at
100,000 at 20 100,000
FLE MIKTGTOKT, Ist NOVEMBER,
BE SURE AND REGISTER YOUR LETTERS, AND TAKE CARE OF
THE P.U. RECEIPT TILL YOU GET OUR REPLY.
Ist NOVEMBER, 1882.
50,000 *t -o 50.000
Address—" TATTEBSALL,” care of George Adams, Tattersall’s Hotel, SYDNK V. N.fc>-


CLARKE’S PATENT
PYRAMID" & DOUBLE WICK FAIRY LIGHTS.
CLARKE’S NEW FLORAL FAIRY LAMPS, HONON
‘PYRAMID’ GARDEN LAMP
and Mosquito /\ Trap.
m
Sx
WEATHER
PROOF.
Every
Verandah
should be
Decorated
•with these
Invaluable
Lamps.
GLASSES
IN
VARIOUS
COLOURS.
WEATHER
PROOF.
Made in
Two Sizes,
to burn
either
‘ Pyramid ’
Lights or
Double-wick
‘ Fairy ’
Lights.^
BEAUTIFUL
EFFECT.
In Beautiful Tinted Glass-Various Colours.
Made in three sizes, to burn FAIRY an . d Lights. Thj® ighting.
charming novelty that has yet been introduced for ® ,T g 8
CAN BE HAD MOUNTED ON PLUSH STANDS.
m
m
CLARKE’S
(Registered “ pyramid ” (gight-gight
WATCH
Japanned Watch Holder and Burglar Horror Lamp Complete.
Sold by all the leading retail houses.
THE BURGLAR'S HORROR.
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE
plaster fire-proof CASE,
THE BURGLAR'S HORROR.
Single Wicks burn nine hours
each, in Boxes containing Eight
Lights.
For Burning in
CLARKE’S f Pyramid ’
NURSERY LAMP.
CAUTION.— TO PREVENT
BURGLARIES.—A “Pyramid/
Night Light should be lighted ir
the back and front of every house
as soon as it is dark. Housebreaker
have the greatest dread of a light
The police recommend a “Pyramid''
Night Light as the best safe guard.
Almostalltheburglaries perpetrated
might have been prevented and
much VALUABLE PROPERTY
SAVED, if this simple and inex-
pensive plan had always been
adopted. The “Pyramid” Night
Lights are much larger and give
DOUBLE THE LIGHT of the
common night lights, and are there-
fore particularly adapted for this
purpose. Manufactured in Patent
Eire-proof Plaster Cases. No
paraffin or other dangerous material
used in their manufacture.
Lines on Using CLARKE’S Lights.
“ When Nights are Dark,
Then think of Clarke,
Who’s Hit the Mark Precisely ;
For his Night-Lights.
Create Light-Nights,
In which Too See quite Nicely.’•
—W.E.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: FRANCIS
Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st., Melbourne.
For Dyspepsia and General Depression Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
ẃ
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cl eers and strengthens.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.— Pure, Palatable, Perfect
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love
and cooling as his fan.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
the best invigorator out.
It is
A N.S.W. Bush School.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Thebe it stands, alongside the road to the mines,
on a timber-mill lease—rent for its site, one
peppercorn per annum. It is about eighteen feet
long by fourteen broad —stringy-bark roof, slab
walls, uneven floor raised on piles so as to be out
of the flood backwash from the creek where the
children get water and the frogs chorus all day.
The slabs forming the walls and the rough floor
have been put together green and have shrunk,
leaving interstices where pencils are lost and the
wind comes through. A spasmodic attempt bv a
philanthropist to provide a rough bag-lining which
goes only half-way round has been contemptuously
treated by the school-imps while under lax discip-
line. Slashes have been made with knives, and
patches have been entirely removed to clean slates
with, since some scathing remarks at the last
inspection on the dirty habit of cleaning slates
with hands and spittle or the tongue. The fire-
place is on the wrong side, and sometimes catches
alight, but this is a phenomenon, for the smoke
generally goes everywhere but up the chimney.
Nine a.in,, and here comes the teacher. He
has tramped three miles through wet grass, and
his trousers and boots are soaked. A city lad not
long out of the training-college, he has had two
months’ exile here, and has had enough. He is
pale and thin —his jaws are unshaven—a cough
racks him as he walks. He is disgusted, ill, and
homesick. He got his present appointment in the
mountains after repeated applications for removal
from a marshy island in the Manning. He can
afford no horse on <£96 a year; and there is no
fence round the school to keep one in if he had it.
His board and lodging cost <£l a week, and he
sends £2 a month to his mother. He unlocks the
door and gropes under a pile of old coats for
a pair of boots and socks, then goes dejectedly
out for a stray youngster to get some wood. None
about. Must get it himself. A couple of hand-
fuls of bark off a “stringy,” already nearly skinned,
and a few damp sticks. Then a fire amidst the
choking smoke, which continues while he gets the
broom and sweeps the floor. Very little dirt goes
out the door. It gets away down the cracks. A
little girl looks in at the inkstained desks. “Go
and get some wood, Elly, please.” She will come
back when the fire is out. Down he sits to wait.
A yell in the distance, and a clamour amongst
the young magpies, indicates that some more
pupils are coming. About half-past nine a score
of assorted young “ cookies ” are on the ground.
“ Fall in 1” They have had a few rudimentary
drills and know how to fall in. A motley
assortment ! A girl of 16—big-boned, largely
developed, spotted face, barefooted —heads the
line of girls. The mud has squeezed up
between her toes, and her ugly toe-nails are
black. The teacher’s eye does not linger upon
her charms with admiration. Nearly all are bare-
footed, and some have very hard faces. There
is a smell of sheep-pens and pigstyes, and the
odour of new moleskins is not pleasant. “ March! ’
They straggle out of step into the smoky den
where they will drag out five hours. The frowsy
hats are thrown down in a heap, and the sheep-
ticks, &c., exchange confidences.
* # •
The school-work, which the teacher nas mapped
out in a systematic manner, is wearisome and
heavy—ranging, as it does, from that of youngsters
in the first primer to those in the fourth reader.
All read in a dull, measured cadence, without in-
flection or intelligence, faltering over the long
words and disregarding the punctuation marks.
There is no disorder, but there is no animation.
Nearly all the lessons are gone through in the
same spiritless fashion, except when the teacher
pulls himself together and forgets his miseries for
half-an-hour. But the comfortless hole has too
firm a “ drop ” on his spirits, and he sinks back
into the apathy that now cramps his faculties,
content only if there is no undue noise. And the
day drags wearily along while the cold wind
through the floor makes his legs ache, and the
bitter smoke cuts his throat and smarts his eyes.
Back to his lodgings at sunset. He eats his tea
what a tea ! —and goes to bed for the rest that bow
never comes. Rest, in a musty, damp room while
the vermin run riot! Rest, with that cough, and
the nightmares that haunt him! He does not
study at night. He did once. His ambition is
killed, for the regulations preclude him from
another examination, until he has obtained an
impossible skill-mark three years in succession.
One quarter more and he will either be on a
sick bed or will have gone back to his people in
Sydney -a physical wreck.
’An over-drawn picture, say you ? Ask !
CHAS. THACKERAY.
“ If we have nd Socrates, we have plenty
of hemlock.”—.Heme.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.'
During the recent British election the
gentle Tories of Salisbury issued a cartoon
entitled “ For Home Buie he’ll burn,” represent-
ing Gladstone, with a halter round his neck and
the devil at the other end of the rope, being towed
throng]i the gates of Tophet. The Tory is still
convinced that God believes in coercion and sup-
ports the game-laws.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients*
An aerolite bearing gold is alleged to have
fallen in the U.S. If an aerolite fell in this
country it would probably contain a deposit
receipt on —er —Thomas Smith Richardsons qt
Matthew Henry Davies’ defunct bank. It is
always the thing you have already got too much
of tiiat falls unexpectedly in your back-yard.
The meteor that drops in Farkes’ garden is dead-
sure to have a poem in it,
1-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps
One day last week a man, who said he was
out of work, walked into The Bulletin office and
handed us this
UGLY.
Dear Bulletin,—l applied, according to advertisement,
the other day for work from a fat Sydney bank potentate.
He was told by his wife, sotte voce, in my presence not to
era ill oy me, as I was “so ugly. ’ God knows that I neitliei
made nor moulded myself, and it appears my b auty is
necessary for the support of my hungry wife a id wretched
children! Oh, dear editor, a great, wild, mid, gulping
sensation claws at my throat as I pen my lines to you 1
tell that woman here that blubber is beauty. 1 tell her
also that I have marked her husiand, her house and her
boys. and mentally registered notes until the Day ot
Reckoning comes. Further, the last straw has snapped.
I am now a dangerous member of a society that has
outraged me. I have no bath-room in my hovel, no
barber to shave my he id, no dinner to colour my checks,
no comfort, no ease, nit. Therefore, though ‘everythii g
has been cursed,” I rise and curse it again. May a mighty
sun frizzle this universe into dry spit and nothing more.
Yours, Agony.
“Ad Omnes.”
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
The day-dawn of life is departed,
And noon-tide already begun !
How long ere grave even’ is started
And the woof of your weaving is spun,
And the weaver’s cold fingers are done ?
Impelled by fond hope (ah ! ’twill perish),
Do you ever stare life in the face ?
Or, seeking one thought that you cherish,
Find peace in its silent embrace
With a holy communion and grace ?
Superlative strength to commingle
Your mind with the triumphs of time,
To go from the shell and the shingle,
Keep pace with your pulse and the chime
Of the sleigh-bells of life and their rhyme
To be on humanity’s column
A statue eternally bright,
Join Freedom's loud swelling and solemn
Deep anthems that roll with the might
Of the roar of the waves in the night.
Were gladness, and stately achievement
“Profound as a manifold flower” —
Were scorn for all mortal bereavement
A sceptre to sway, and a power
Enfolding an infinite Power !
What makes up the span of existence
Brief moments? or hours? or years?
Brave deeds, and unswerving resistance
To wild and to poisonous fears
That choke out the blossom Truth rears?
Look back on the path you have trodden !
Gaze forward on this which you tread !
Abandon all things that are sodden,
Bring forward pure things in iheir stead !
Drink strength from the living and dead
See! Beckoning onward and ever
The years hold a bright immortelle !
Press on ! There are slaves to deliver !
A labour of love to fulfil 1
And the knowledge of Truth to instil!
For yester-year’s only memorial
When blazoned with deeds bravely wrought.
What matters a motto armorial
Being words—not a victory bought?
What battle is won until fought ?
And the end ? Fame endures for all aeons !
Where the fame? In the Empire of Mind!
Whose the voice ? The sonorous deep paeans
That swell on the breast of the wind !
Th’ eternal, unwearying wind!
June, ’92.
H. C. SHAW.
“ The discussion was of a unanimous
character.” —Gem from an Argus report.
ẁ
Wemyss Reid : “ Nobody supposes a
journalist is to bo an automaton, repeating parrot-
like, the doctrines dictated to him by his em
ployer.” Nay, but that is the model one.
Chas. Keene’s rejected drawings, for
Punch, of course included the spiciest themes.
One was a newly-made widow, surveying the
photo, of the departed, as she exclaimed to a lady
friend, “Ah, I know where he spends his evenings
now !”
Thus a Begum of the South Melbourne
Council : “The Trades Hall is responsible for
the present depression. Workmen should be
satisfied with 10s. or 15s. a week. As a landlord
I have been compelled to reduce my rents.” And
the eternal parson rose to endorse these remarks.
In many councillors there is wisdom. But it has
to be a deuce of a crowd.
There was a skirmish going on recently,
says the Overland China Mail, somewhere in
that region of eternal unrest which lies upon the
Tonquin border. The Mongolian troops were
attempting to storm a stockade held by a party of
Black Flags, and were getting the worst of it.
But suddenly the firing from the stockade ceased,
a white banner was displayed, and the chief of the
defenders appeared on the wall and asked the
Chinese commander to sell him some gunpowder,
as his own supply was run out. And so humorous
is the Chinaman in his own silent, stolid fashion
that the paper professes itself unable to tell
whether the gunpowder was sold or not.
A Sydney paper’s correspondent lets in a
side-light on the fish-trade as practised in Mel-
bourne :
As well as fish, ducks, haves, rabbits and game of all
kinds pass through the Melbourne market, and I have
seen sdme of these horribly tainted. One morning, with
what repugnance may be guessed, 1 witnessed on the
pavement outside the market the following occurrence.
—A hawker, who had purchased a quantity of rabbits and
fish, was doctoring his stock-in-trade. First he fore
away the membrane covering the rabbit’s interior. This
was green with putridity and covered a swarming nest or
maggots. Then with a wet, filthy, black rag he wiped the
interior flesh. Having finished with his rabbit he seized
a tickly-looking fish and wiped away the slime which
covered it with the self-same rag. Someone in Melbourne
dined that day upon those articles !
What an unwholesome book might be written
about the horrors of victuals ! It sets us thinking
of the Dunedin (M.L.) fishmonger who habitually
lowered his fish into the sewer on hot summer
days because he hadn’t a refrigeratoi'. Also, it re-
minds us of the Australian baker who solemnly
assured us that there used to be great excitenu nt
in the bakehouse where he worked, owing to the
bakers making up a pool and spitting at the dough-
trough for the prize. The man who owned the
bakery was the same German genius who invented
a new and improved bread-van, which was so
heavy behind that the drivers always had to put
four paving-stones in the front-end of it to keep it
from tilting backwards and lifting the horse in the
air. The Teutonic boss “ dropped to ” this di vice
one day, and promptly hauled the paving-stones
out. Then lie went in to ask the driver fi ran
explanation and found him engaged in the gome
above-mentioned, whereupon the boss delivered a
brief address to him as follows ; “ Mine frendt,
you are von hog f you vill to-morrow kick
yourself ant go to boot de bavement in
s nnepody else’s gait. ’ And then the driver
went out and loaded up his improved vehicle in
grim silence, and when it was loaded the weight
of the bread behind and the want of ballast in
front displaced its centre of gravity, and the horse
was lifted in the air, after which the employe left
without notice, and half-an-hour later the boss,
i h mcing to look out of the window, saw a deceased
horse balanced on its hind-legs in the_ lane, the
wretched animal having been hanged in its own
collar.


How can they make them ? Four 6-NUN
Darlings, Is.
Deeming’s last words; “Let me smoke a
G N U N Darling.”
Protectionists smoke GNUN Darlings.
Shah of Persia smokes G N U N Darlings,
All ends in smoking 6NUN Darlings.
“ Arrah, be aisy ; the G N U N Darling’s a
daisy.
Financial worry soothed smoke GN U N
Darlings.
TOILET & NURSERY.
• »«OP° »■< »■
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
)..(
*
FAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOET HEALTHFUL SKIN.
Mr*. LANGTRY.
“Theve much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other. ”
(Sinned) LILLIE LANGTRY.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
“ I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best.”
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdmo. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
“For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
tl'° hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
ii the world.”
(Signed) MARIE ROZE.
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Bov. H. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness is next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. lam willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WII.SON, F.R.S.
(Late Preside,n of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England.)
Writes in the Journal op Cutaneous Medicine :
“ The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
Wt.
it
Si
i
i
i
vst
m
M
m
A Drouthy Tarn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Far and fast across the blistering plains
the “ Sergeant ” and I had travelled. That
terrible drought of ‘B3 was then devastating the
-country from end to end. The blazing sun flamed
on us all day, and at night breathed fervently
upon us from the other side of the far distant
ranges. Water was as valuable as gold - ounce
for ounce troy —and for two days and nights we
had neither seen nor tasted a single drop. Easter
was very close at hand. The significance of this
chronological observation will appear hereafter.
About five on the Wednesday evening before
Good Friday we arrived at fareela Flats, and put
up at the only shanty in the place, “The Harp of
Erin.” Here the dearth of “Adam’s ale” was
very manifest—so indeed was the profusion (and
to judge by facial adornment, the popularity) of
whatever the brands may have been that reached
so remote a spot. As we had been drinking
nothing but whisky for two days, the small billy-
ful of clayey water served out to us as our night’s
allowance caused a radiant twinkle of satisfaction
to illumine the Sergeant’s blue, polygamic eye.
* * m
Mine host of the “ Harp” was one Daly.
He was much attached to the Sergeant for two
cogent reasons : they hailed from the same county,
and the Sergeant was the nearest wealthy
squatter to the shanty. Nevertheless, it is worthy
of note that no more drinkable water was forth-
coming for the rest of the evening.
# * #
We turned in about ten; and, according
to custom, Daly (a widower), insisted upon giving
up his own private room to the Sergeant. We
were half undressed and the Sergeant was pouring
out a drink for each when I happened to drop my
wateh-key, and, crawling about to find it, I espied
a large bottle full of colourless liquid under the
edgeof the spring-mattress. Temporarily forgetting
the watch-key, I uncorked my find, and, tasting
very carefully, we found it aqua pura indeed —
evidently filtered and as clear as crystal. The
novelty caused us to imbibe rather more than was
our original intention, and it was past one when
we ultimately turned in. I was awakened about
three hours later by unpleasant colicky pains, and
I found that my companion had been similarly
afflicted for an hour before I awoke. Our sus-
picions naturally turned to the contents of the
bottle, but as a dram or two soon relieved us we
placed the blame on the heathen Chinee cook, his
machinations, and his mysterious gravy,
*■ # •
At breakfast we told Daly of our sufferings
—but not of our “find.” We did not wish to
impugn his unselfishness in stowing away his own
especial whack of what was at that time so
precious.
* * *
“ The horses are in, sir,” said the stable-
bov to the Sergeant. We got into the buggy, and
1 ad j sb s'artel when Daly, rushing out, called
upon sto * top. The driver pulled up.
“D d yez put th s bhottle on th’ tayble in th’
hidroom ? ’ said our host, flourishing the article in
question.
“ Yes,” promptly replied the Sergeant.
“ Phwat did yez doo with th’ wahter as was in
it; ” says he.
“Drank it, of course,” replied the Sergeant
“ An* yez cumplaned about havin’ colie in th’
noight, do yez ? An’ no wunder, either !! It’s a
blanky mane thrick of yez ter dhrink a man’s
howly wahter that he’s kipt noigh on foive years
an’ Aisther so close ! Begorra, an’ if it wasn’t
yerself, Mister , an’ if ye didn’t come from
Tipperary I’d belt th’ blanky pair an’ th’ wahter
blanky well out o’ th’ pair o’ yez, Oi would ! ”
The scorn in his eye as he walked off was a
revelation. We drank our whisky neat thence-
forth until a permanent water-supply was reached
—at Tamworth.
H. C. SHAW.
Quid pro quod, —Tobacco for gaol.
The Broken Hill ladies recall those
Ballarat, when Berry was in his zenith, apex, and
apogee, addressing a political tea-meeting there,
when he declared that the women of Ballarat and
Bendigo formed the backbone of Victorian
Liberalism, Doubtless he said the same of the
women of— er—Geelong.
Dear Bulletin,—l have been trying to
work out a little calculation based on a pair of
slop pants. They are English pants made from
Australian _ wool. The squatter who grew the
wool sold it to an agent, who gave him a p.n.,
which he promptly discounted at the bank, and the
proceeds were mopped up to reduce his overdraft.
The agent charged a commission and sent the wool
“homethe Broker at the other end charged a
commission, and so did the auctioneer. Then it
got to the manufacturer, who charged his profit
for turning the wool into pants. He sold the
pants through a broker—who charged a commis-
sion—to the wholesale dealer, who paid with
a bill which was immediately discounted. Then
the wholesale dealer shipped them out to
the Australian branch of his firm, and drew
on them, and melted the draft ; and when
they reached Australia the branch got an over-
draft to meet the said draft. And next the afore-
said branch sold to a tailor on a three months’ bill
and melted the bill, and the tailor—ye gods !
trusted me with the pants, and I didn’t pay him
at all because I was cleaned out through backing
Slavin; and the other day he went into the
Insolvency Court, and the Registrar wept over
him because he had been ruined by trades-unionism
and strikes. Being out of work I have now put
the pants up the spout, and when the ticket runs
out they will be sold by an auctioneer on com-
mission. If you happen to have some old clothes
which you can spare I shall be glad to hear
from you.—Yours &c., Rags.
A feeble, short-winded rumour is again
circulating in Maoriland that Sir Republican
Stout contemplates returning to politics and lead-
ing an advanced democratic party. This is kind
of Stout, but, at the same time, The Bulletin
would fancy that the Maoriland democrats are
somewhat weary of that over-rated mediocrity.
Stout had the ball at his feet once, and when he
kicked it the miserable thing burst. The begin-
ning of his decadence was his brutal attack on
Gr<y some five or six years ago. There was no
visible quarrel or cause of offence between the
two, but one night a coarse, ungentlemanly
devil entered into Stout, and, apropos of nothing
under the sun, he rose and made an oration. In
the course of it he jeered at Grey—the man
whose influence has made Maoriland the most
democratic country in the world, the man
“ whose failures are more glorious than the
successes of meaner men ” —for his old age,
his physical feebleness, his white hair, his
loneliness and desolation. He invited the
aged veteran to look back on what he called his
wasted life, and taunted him with his lost position
in politics, his vanished party, his fall from theeleva-
tion heonceoccupied, and soon, while the Housesat
frozen in dull amazement, and wondered whether
it all arose from insanity or from drink Stout
sat down amid a dead and awful silence, with a
look of fatuous contentment on his colourless
countenance, and Grey was about to rise in reply
when Fergus, then an unknown man, got up on
two long, massive legs, straightened himself,
chewed for a moment at his great beard, and
spoke. At_ the first sentence the House sat up in
wild surprise. When Stout is angry there
is a subdued snuffle in his voice, and
Fergus was speaking with just that same snuffle.
The language he used was amazing to listen to.
Speaking at Stout, in Stout s own voice, he told
him that k s life was wasted, and that the world
would be quite content if he had never been born.
He jeered Stout for his blatant Atheism, and
hinted that the big, bald man who said there
wasn’t any God was mortally afraid lest there
should be a God after all; he cast reflections on
his teetotalism ; he told him that he was utterly
friendless, and that when he died no man would
care to attend his funeral; and he denounced him
because he was comparatively young and didn’t
know how to grow old decently. Also, he told
him that his party was leaving him; that
his friends were not leaving him, simply because he
never had any; and that he was cold, fishy,
heartless, and dead to human sympathy. Stout
was gray with rage as the oration proceeded,
but despite his interruptions the remorseless
Fergus snuffled along with his blasting indictment
like a machine that snuffled by steam, and when
he had finished his enemy was a glaring, crumpled
thing huddled up on a bench and of no account.
The House might have forgotten Stout’s brutality,
but it never forgave him for the fright that was
depicted on his countenance, and so far as his
political career was concerned he might almost
as well have gone home that night and ordered his
funeral.
A Samarai (New Guinea) pearl-sheller
lately got 100 tons of shell in six months —worth
<£100 per ton in Samarai.
A few recent sentences reported in the
English papers. For brutally assaulting a wife
a id turning her out naked at 2 a.m. —ordered to
fi d- one security of <£5. For trapping a hare—
three months’ gaol. Carrying a gun without a
licence —fine of <£113s. fid. Flogging a horse till
the animal was bleeding in half a dozen places—
fine of 18s. fid. Picking up some pig-feed—one
month in gaol. A ’‘gentleman of independent
means” for travelling without a ticket —fined 40s.
A poor woman for ditto-28 days without the
option. Also a girl of 14 who “ broke out in an
ungovernable rage” in an Industrial School and
was thereupon confined by the matron for a week
in a bare stone cell with no seat and no bedding,
being arrested at the end of that period—remanded
to gaol while the magistrate thinks over the
matter.
The (Glasgow) British Trades-Union Con-
gress is initiating in the Commons a Bill to prm
vent the importation of foreign labour into Great
Britain during strikes; Federal Australian legis-
1 ition is needed for the prohibition of all indebted
labour, more particularly that of Polynesians*
Asiatics, Russian and other Jews, Syrians, &c.*
at all times. West Australia is now mote Asiatic
than Caucasian, and Queensland has been legisla-
tively sold into slavery.
Me And Bill.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sit beside the crackling firo-and watch its cheery blaze
And catch within its glowing depths a glimpse of other
da.\ s ; 1
I hear the crack of teamsters’ whips resounding up the
And see again the ugly face of my old pardner, Bill,
I see his long, ungainly form, his brown neck hard and
bare,
His kindly eyes, ills gaping mouth, his coarse and matted
hair ;
I hear again his ghostly laugh and watch his genial grin
And feel his hard and knotted paw a-giasping of my fin.*
And visions of the long ago come surging through mv
brain, ' *
I feel the horse between my knees and see the stretching
plain, 8
I hear the thundering crash of hoofs, and feel once more
the thrill
That ran like Are throughout my veins when drovin’ Tong
with Bill. * 8
1 feel the fresh breeze playing round my thin and withered
cheek,
And Bill’s long stockwhip bracking (he could almost make
it speak),
And I hear the cattle lowing, and I feel the headlong
rush,
As I felt it in the old days with the fellers in the bush.
And I see the camp-lire blazing ’neath the overhanging
trees, ° “
And the boys a-spinning differs to the sighing of the
breeze:
Whilst high above the others, like a curlew’s clear and
shrill,
I can hear the piercing accents of my brave old pardner
Bill.
But my hands have grown unsteady and my sight is
getting dim,
And I think I have rheumatics near in every blessed
limb.
And I know that in the saddle now I’d Cut a pretty shine
But as every dog his day has so has every man his tittle.
And I think the only horses that I’ll ride on any more
Will be those I find in glory when I reach the other shore;
And I don’t know much about it—no, I don’t know much’
but still
I bet there ain’t a horse there that can throw my pardner
Bill,
For he’s rode the wildest brumbies, and he’s sat and stuck
thepi there,
Till you’d think that every minute he’d come flying
through the air,
And I never knew him beaten, though for twenty years
and three
We have rode and droved together like two brothers, him
and me.
But now he’s mustered horses and is on the other side,
A-teaohing of the angels how a stockman ought to ride,
And where he has gone I’m goin’, for I’ll never rest until
I’m a-drafting heavenly cattle in the plains up there with
Bill,
Maryborough, Queensland*
W. CROMPTON.


Medical.
NERVOUS IREN.
3?
EUREKA
Ms
ELECTRIC BEL.™
k i a/. \ , v\ . . \kV
NT\
A
ft'
''nK
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
Upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Bheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervous
Bystem. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 days
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. _ Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
AdSs:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY'"
Box 916, G. P. 0., Syunsv.
ES
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
possible. Consult an experienced woman long
and favourably known as a successful specialist
in all Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
A.ddress; — Mrs. G. WOOD, 165 Berkley
Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
The Marvel of the Age!
«■ >4
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
CURES positive!y all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cu res ‘ ‘ Barcoo Rot ’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Farmers
and Shearers. Thou-
sands testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale;
Australian Drug Co.
Drapery.
INDISPENSABLE FOR ANY LADY,
TEUFEL’S DIANA BELT.
Infinitely Superior to the Sanitary Towels.
Comfortable & Reliable.
No Discomfort I No Chaping ! No Chill /
Sold by
Drapers, Ladies’ Outfitters, and Chemists.
Sole Agent for Australasia (wholesale only)—
HF". 3F 1 XC K,
9 WYNYARD STREET, SYDNEY;
314 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders,
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Bunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
Gr. XI. SMITH & SOUXT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
—SOLE AGENTS FOR-
HEATH, 605, 607, 609 Oxford Street, LONDON.
ẅ
HATS
OF EVERY KIND.
Ladies’Club Straw Hats for Yachting,
Boating an
Tennis.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦lf
a
Wanted to send for particulars of YEsolish) ♦
Tansy Pills, which are better than Steel or t
Pennyroyal. Cures obstructions from whatever «
cause. Never fails* No pills powders like
them. Particulars free. [Mention this paper. *
W. Cavendish, P.O. Box 161, Melbourne. f
Medical.
DfAPATERSON
A.M., M.D., C.M., F.R.C.S., Ed. ; M.R.C.S., Em,
201
Macquarie Street North
(Opposite Parliament House)
Sydaaey.
201
Dr. PATERSON has been engaged for over
Twenty Years in the study and practice of
QHRONIC,
jVjERVOUS,
and
Special Diseases
Of Men and Women in the leading Medical Schools and
Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and Vienna, and
in private practice. Formerly House Surgeon to the
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Maternity and Lock Hospitals.
Nu.a ■idical man advertising in these colonies has medical
degrees which can be compared with his. Such eminent
qualifications, together with his recognised straightfor-
ward treatment, has naturally gained for him the reputa-
tion of being the
ONLY LEGALLY QUALIFIED DOCTOR
advertising in these colonies who combines with special
Knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily be ascer-
tained by applying to any leading paper in the colony.
No diseases cause so much misery and distress as those
included in my speciality.
All Men Young and Old.
Suffering from the results of early follies or ex-
cesses, indigestion, foul mouth, costiveness, palpi-
tation, singing and pains in the ears and head,
specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened
memory, pains in the back and chest, varicocele,
diseases of the bladder, kidneys, or liver, rheuma-
tism, impure blood, weakening discharges, impaired
vigor, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervous-
ness, groundless fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and
NERVOUS DEBILITY, should lose no time in
consulting him, since he has, by long experience
and thorough investigation of their nature, dis-
covered the safest treatment for their permanent
cure. Persons residing at a distance may be treated
at their own homes, without any interruption to
their business, by giving a full and clear descrip-
tion of their symptoms, and the necessary medi-
cines will be forwarded to them. On receipt of
2s. 6d. he will forward his book on the “Male
Generative Function in Health and Disease,”
or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
Dr. Alex. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street North (opposite Parliament House)
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will'be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
thejr use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole, physical
energy of the human frame. These are FACTS tes died
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and -ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly the
natient of rest. Let any person give Beecham s Cough
Piles a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Pronrietor Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
Sand in boxes Is. l*d. (containing 56 pills), and at
2S 'Soki ruggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
EP PS’S
GRATEFUL —COMPOSTING
COCO A.
—Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and JAfe,'
to the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Ss CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
CH4
&
0*
<*>
PATENT
PILLS.
w
&
to
a
Business Announcements.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. 83F” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
ROSE'St®^
X
E
X
\\\
o
o&
IlfLotl
B
S^T
THEONLYI
laaMl
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
i- and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
<S' s /■ * >! \
mt
w
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS!
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KKEI’I* GALVANIC CHAIN BELT,
all agree in praising that most scientific of Electro-Thera*
ueutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is unrivalled.
Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The Nervous
are strengthened, and the Debilitated restored to perfect
health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an unfailing
cure for all Nervous, Sexual or Cl ironic Diseases, and is
GUARANTEED to ABSOLUTELY CURE, completely and
lastingly, the following complaints.
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and
Chest, Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb
Ague, Nervous Debility, Paralysis, Kidney
Complaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness,
Diseases of the Liver, Impotence, Seminal Weak-
ness, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy, Sperma-
torrhoea, Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart
Palpitation, Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why
V our money and health by procuring and taking LSELEtsfe.
DRUGS ? Electricity, when properly applied, is acknow-
ledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians to be
the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and_ Sexual
Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials received by
the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages throughout
Australasia prove the unquestionable curative properties
of Electricity as applied by the appliance above referred to.
Our confidence in this appliance is so complete, that
we send the Belt out on trial, and guarantee it
to five perfect satisfaction. For full particulars as to
terms, etc., send for our large illustrated treatise, free,
in which these belts are fully illustrated, the action of
electricity on the nervous si stem explained, and a lot of
useful information on nervous and sexual diseases given.
This treatisealso contains facsimiles of testimonials received
from some of our clients who have tried our Belts. 2he
originals of these testimonials produced on application.
pgr’ The prices of the Kiupp Galvanic Cham Belt and
Suspensory are from ill.
Sole Inventor Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
KlUll*!* G • LVANI ITIAIN BELT CO.,
Box 647, G.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt cures without medicine,
is easy to wear, is sent on approval, and the first cost is
the only cost-
Whisky
DRINK
nm
SCDTTIE”
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he I he Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
218. to 14s. Cd. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S POBPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at' this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send RO.O. and Pa.i win oe sent
to any Address.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.”
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, al \d is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price.
pT Sole Agents:
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 082 George Street, Sydney.
f/wtfi I,
QIJ Handing
3sn ox ?ansvai d #
ŵ
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Bazors excel-
REAL. GERMAN HOLLOWS GROUND
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, IV.
RAZOR
MAT'S
SPARKLING
ALE.
' a?'
ẁ
0
V
o*!>>
►
sr
*
QH, FOR A MOUST ACHEII
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CKAIG «& AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDi>ffiY.
Ask for
ẃ
ẅ
CPOSS
*0
w
AGENTS I
Phillips,
Barrack St., Sydaey.


“ -A. 3V TIC XT T A..»
“UOR Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A certain and
immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stable in Sydney 7. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. and'Cs. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers throughout the
colony 7, or from H. LEICESTER, fc9 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.VV. for “Anticuta”
Company.
OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATEii than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COM! E I’ITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
WlilsKy.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED AT INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents;
()
CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
I)
1} 1.1)
Clyde Works, Granville,
ifM.S.W.
The "CLYDE” K
Male in three sizes, with or without Sieve-gear.
FRAMES OF BEST POLISHED BLACKWOOD.
better Chaffcutters have ever been made, and with our
Horsegears to match, thev form plants impossible to beat.
FOR THE HARVEST SEASON
New “Clyde” Damp-weather Strippers,
Clyde” Improved Winnowers,
SON BROS ltd
■ HAMBERS
BUCKEYE
\ Binders,
( IVX owers.
Ensure the rapid and economical handling of any crop.
Ws Make and Stock every kind of Farm Imp'ement. m
NO PITY. CATALOGUES FREE BY POST.
K. A. Ht-rvvy, Agent, 144 < iai e»<vr-„t.
Syd ney.
NEWBY’S LINCTU!
(REGISTERED).
B&HE
\ £'\
bm-
-- ft--'
The only thoronehly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, GOLDS,
AND
INPLUENZ A.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2a.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H, FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SVJjNKV.
City Retail Agency— J. S. Abraham, Chemist,
Wholesale'of K linf.r, Brothers, Limited. “
RADIES*
- CAFN’S TANSY PILLS
are better loan Steel or Penny
roy.ti. Cures obstructious iroiu
whatever cause. Never fails
Pills or i>ow.lers like them.’
Par.iculars free from the asent
vur f4i , e
Mr. W. PRICE, BOX 100, MELBOURNE.
“A CaoMen L^anty.”
Australian stories and sketches is prose and verse
ALL AGENTS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, ‘ rice 25., post paid, to
any of the Australasian colonies.
Huntington HIM,
K Tuiisps.
PM
& B
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS
' C3 -* &C, &o.
!S7 183 Clarence Street,
3NT.S.W.
And SAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Bock Breakers.
-T-
-■r
m
;sa
TTesflngliouse Engines.
m
s*r..
W
mmm
®lfi
cr
>■
■V. - CjVv^crC,..
((
OLONIAL
n
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—I to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE. —SO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet lons'.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING! Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street i"""' °«"*i Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
w
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
tc
BMtssa;
' S-r
&S 5
'
