

m
&
rf*.
ft?
IP
9*.
&
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
A ITKEN’S ALE
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CUBS IN SVDNEV.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 Cteorge-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
<3-. WATKINS & CO., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-FOB—
Twining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BTIILDEES’ & GEETBBAL IBOITMOIVGEBT.
■ r ’NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guairantccd PURE COCOA, stud. EXTRACT of MALT a
READ BROS
o
%
o
2*
iS»S
£>
JW
o
*v
o
Dog’s Head.
ALE & STOUT.
JULES REWARD & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
sSniM wjft-
ru
~\j
a
2
!
ofiJ
lil A 1
fHt
ro&2
th£
rrttm
3
TTT
||lM
Tlxe Oxford. Hotel,
H. THORPE
iriyig Street, Sydney.
Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FfiESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their FREEZING
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
WALKER’S WHISKY. iIISOPP’S ALH.
JOHN WALKER, 24 BOKTX3 STREET, SYD3XTEY.
J. sz, c.
Sole Agents in 3NTew Soutll
HOWARD.
Wales for * Messrs. Clayton and. £3 > xa. ttleworth.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and WiitaTr-heater.
Ltvmw v\\it^';d??^=s=-
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
1
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
g; n ale Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.*
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING E
jr. &
S T GINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES.
C. Howard, 280
m’ Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
i Pitt Street? Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 12—No. 664 j
[Saturday, November 5, 1892.


NO
I n
the
IIkTHE
Elastic
Truss has
ands of
S p rings.
RUSS
rid will Retain
ure or give Belief
Pierce's magnetic
Truss. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
It can bo worn with ease and comfort
Klght and Day. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco. Cat.
Or Washington 11. Soul A Co., 1(50 Pitt St.,
Sydney, or Elliot* Bros., Brisbane, Agents
D*
\uA
n oVv S -jJt
1 *r*r.'T £SV • R,w JM
■
at Ns
"Tvr *
'?
m^Em
y VI
3/6
SOLO
fd
OPEpiAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ
GERALD ERO'n Subscription (payablestrictly
in advan*e), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
MAL.TO-
QUINIA
AGUE,
DEBILITY.
IN FLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC,
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATION’S
AS
A Cure for
WINE.
Wholesale Agents:
LANGE & THONEMAN,
meinoi k\g.
CATALOGUES FREE
to any address in Australasia. Send for Catalogue
before purchasing Guns, Rifles, or Revolvers
elsewhere; best and cheapest guns In Australasia;
English prices. All goods carriage paid to any
address in any of the Colonies.
Address—THE BRITISH GUN CO.,
34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
“ Thi s is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. John,stoke
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON’S
De LISSA
and PHILLIPS, C# I W I
Sole Agents, Barrack Street, Sydney.
manhood.
HEALTH. STRENGTH AAW VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
o* R rCO RoV
fcSStNCEof 4F £.
T Vti °A l t In J aUtl ’ le Remedy for Nervous or Sexual Debility
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
•nd unprecedented success throughout the world
,
cas £ s V r us.. or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
A%nt?%? h J Y re f 0H r ‘ C u ipl ° /stnmped Pressed envelope
* C> ' » Strfel
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
Cures promptly, without additional means, all
recent or chronic discharges of the urinary organs.
Sold in Paris by
J. ferr e,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Cmr MATTEI’S
MARVELLOUS
nEASEDIE S,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLLENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S
ENGLISH PERFUMERY
surpasses all others for its natural
fragrance.
Atkinson’s Renowned
English Lavender Water
and other well-known Perfumes are
unequalled for their delightful and
lasting odour.
ATKINSON’S
ORIENTAL TOOTH PASTE,
UnrivSQled for cleansing, beautifying
and preserving the Teeth and Gums,
Of all Dealers, and of the Manufacturers—
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, OLD BOND STREET, LONDON.
Trade Mark—“ White Rose’on“Golden
bs Lyre,” with Address iu full. u
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
He treats with great success IRREGULARITIES,
AMENORRHCEA, BARRENNESS, STERILITY, LEU-
JORRHCEA and OTHER TROUBLES incidental to
vomen. He gives honest advice and the best of
medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
BETTER THAN SOLD
™ DR. TYSON SANATORIUM.
ST.. ICILI3A..
Patients Received for the Treatment of
DRUNKenn^l't
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures guaranteed. No pain, discomfort or restriction
Private apartments and attendants if desired Dr,
Tyson’s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case, and is the Only remedy which can be
taken at home with certainty of success, All
business strictly confidential For terms, etc.,call on
or address— H. E. PEATE, Secy., Cron-..veil Build-
ings, Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Sts., L.elbourne.
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used
For Consumption use
fat Sons
i
tfy
V
Co^s
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYP.TE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamnndra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
tIS
*
KM
Mill’s “MN BUB” Wyjim Oil
Is the Best Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA, LIVER TROUBLES,
SPRAINS, BRUISES, &c.
If you wish to be comfortable in your mind as to your liability to INFLUENZA,
always keep a bottle of Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil by you and
ready for immediate use by night or by day.
It is a Germ Killer.
Sprinkle it on your pillow at night. Use it in a vaporiser-«a few drops mixed
with water —and steam the apartment. INHALE THE STEAM if there be
Nasal Congestion or Throat Troubles.
(..)
Dr, BRENDON CURGENVEN, of Kensington, London, writes of the oil;
“ I have directed the spray to be used and oil sprinkled on the pillows at night, and I
am convinced I have saved many from the disease,”
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND” EUCALYPTUS OIL.
To guard against having an inferior and unrefined oil served on them, buyers are
cautioned to examine the wrappers for the trade-mark (a parrot on a yellow band), and
on opening the package to see that the words “J. Bosisto, Richmond,” are moulded
in large letters on the bottle. None other is genuine. Ask for
BOSISTO’S PARROT BRAND.
Sold in bottles at Is. each throughout all the colonies and in Europe.
9 &
A
/ k
s
]s. Always fHE>B &ST
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of 3XTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
!K!IX«3M[X]XrS'X'iii.rt, .... Proprietress,
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, 8s,
GRAHAM’S
PREMIER BRAN REBOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
FATTT?R f ” VO TK T th , 4 P ubli ?’ the V having completely established their claim to the title of
SOLD DIRECT quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
APATT im f THE } V; EARLR—there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single-
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carriage Paid.
Try Them.
DEPOTS 320 George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
(6
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
Box 1034, G.P.O. Telephone 972.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Seeds and Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS: w
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
(Also at (London, (Melbourne and (Edinburgh.
SPOONS & FORKS.
M. & Sons have a magnificent selection of
their own manufactured goods always on
view at their Show-rooms, suitable for
SPORTS, PRESENTATIONS,
CLUB, SHIP,
HOTEL and FAMILY USE.
TABLE CUTLERY.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
manufacturers of
Silver and Electro-plated Seeds and Cutlery
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
SHOW-ROOMS: w
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUENE,
(Also at gondon, Sydney and c Edinbargh.


Medical.
Assisted Tty Dr* ELMSLIE,
jI.D.i L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Bos ©SO.
. pmineut Specialist is a graduated physician of
T illS , . University, U.S., registered by the Governments
Uafvaid jjj;.. and has devoted 16 years to the
rf - V tV,nd of CHRONIC, NERVOUS, SKIN and
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All apply-
-3 , him will receive his honest opinion of their coin-
ing, l ® experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
ll,!un -p Guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
liv f C h m that where there is no organic disease, and
lel t ■' but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
“ 0l imeration of syinotoins producing a certain result,
?ongi° 11 1 eaaon why it cannot be removed with the
[here ~ ii .c lm n i»o fane T-To nlnima fo
iri-emedieT: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
pro .i o most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
'*■‘'’Sar speciality, viz., the CHRONIC and SPECIAL
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN
Examination and Advice Free to all.
itiic** Honrs ! 10 to 14 a.in.; ?to 4 and
? to 8 p.in.
In consequence of the prevailing
hard times,
n' SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
"L mv ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
exa * trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Pr SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
dvice attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
Nervous Debility.
»3jf= CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUS-
NESS and SEXUAL WEAKNESS through indiscretion,
for his many years of practice with this dreadful disease
enables him to remove all traces of it, and to return the
victims to full VIGOR, HEALTH and MANHOOD.
N.8.-TWENTY SHILLING'S is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUS DEBILITY.
In all cases of
PRIVATE DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
VARICOCELE consult Dr. SPEER.
SEXUAL EXHAUSTION AND WEAKNESS consult Dr.
SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
FZXiXdSL
1. AMERICAN “ VIGOUR ” PILLS, for Nervous
Debility, Lost Vitality', Sexual Weakness, Errors, &c.,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN “PRIVATE” PILLS, for Discharges,
Contagious Sores and Blood Diseases, 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Extra strong, 375. Cd.
FEMALE ” PILLS, for Irregularities and Obstruc-
tions from whatever cause, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draw's attention to his
A. MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
O.—ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE,
Mention this paper.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
f
(REGISTERED).
&W The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
AND
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
J. H, FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Strret, SYDNEY.
Uty Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited.
Business Announcement.
m
i
w/t
as
•Si,*.
Best on Earth
Sole Agents—
flit’s Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’S
WORK ON
Nervous Debility,
PRICE 3d.
In Stamps.
SEND FOR DR. KELLY’6
Complete Treatise
ON PRIVATE,
Nervous & Skin
Complaints.
PEICE is
In Stamps,
&
U
M.A., M.B,
CONSULTATION FREE BY LETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
Kelly’s reputation is so thoroughly established that it will only oe necessary for him to intimate
that he is practising a Specialist, _ to be appreciated as a benefactor to suffering mankind. As the
greater portion of the New South Wales public is aware, Dr. Kelly is a Legally Qualified and Registered
Physician, and has by far the largest practice in the colonies. Many persons at a distance, however, are
unaware of his great success, as, hitherto, he has refrained from advertising. Hence, to widen the
sphere of his usefulness, he has determined, by means of advertising, to make himself known in remote
distrmts, where his reputation may not yet have travelled., As the question may arise, why does so
eminent a Physician as Dr. Kelly find it necessary to advertise, he may reply to one and all as
follows :-~That the Physician who has the power *to cure, and remains silent, is guilty of an un-
pardonable sin of omission ; for if there is a person on earth to be pitied, it is he who is obliged to
associate with his fellow beings while his mind is constantly harassed and tortured by the consciousness
of his past folly,
ASK YOURSELF THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS
Am I subject to Palpitation of the Heart, Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale, Sallow Complexion,
Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear of Death, Tendency to Suicide,
Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of
Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Peeling after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad
Taste in the Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in the
Head and Ears, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels, Sleepy Peeling During the Day, Pains in' the
Back, Specks Before the Eyes, Weak or Sore Eyes, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Pits,
or Shortness of Breath ?
DR. KELLY’S MEDICAL WORK is not a small pamphlet but a
LARGE BOOKCONTAININGMANYPAGESopPRESCRIPTIONS
AND APPROPRIATE ILLUSTRATIONS, and is WRITTEN in
SIMPLE LANGUAGE, which can be UNDERSTOOD by all.
NO CURE, NO PAY.
DR. KELLY GUARANTEES TO CURE ALL ACCEPTED CASES. ELECTRICITY
WILL CURE NERVOUS DEBILITY. DR. KELLY’S
ELEOTRIC GIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is Guaranteed to Cure any case of NERVOUS DEBILITY. This excellent apparatus,
which has been so frequently tested, will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a Post Office Order
for £1 Is. Persons sending for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the
Doctor to select a Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety, all letters containing money should
be registered.
Persons consulting Dr. Kelly may rely on secrecy and perfectly pure remedies free from mercury or
other dangerous ingredients.
All Electrical Appliances, &c., &c., are forwarded, securely packed free from observation, to any part
of the world.
Dr. W. H. Kelly, who is a Legally Qualified Medical Practitioner, Registered by the New South
Wales Medical Board, may be Consulted, Free of Charge, at 112 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
Monday .
Tuesday ..
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday ..
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
•. 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
.. 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon, 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
ADDRESS— W> £-5. KELLY,
113 PHILLIP STREET, SYDNEY.
N.8.-DR. KELLY WILL PROSECUTE ANY INFRINGEMENT OF HIS LETTERS PATENT.
YOU SHOULD MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
The only Remedy for Indigestion
*
7*
*6%
soi
Ut £
c UR£
GES*n° n
for
ImDI
Price : 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
no Substitute.
Simplest
O&0BST,
®@/VIN6
TTfiaShine
ftWsßfa
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
DIP
&
HOM
i: '
• V f •
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
' 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“Tales ofthe Convict System.”
Medical.
Dr. nicm^rms.
The new ELECTRICAL, CONSULTING and
LABORATORY ROOMS being completed. Dr.
Richards will in future be pleased to welcome hia
friends and patients, during his consulting hours,
at his new address,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
'
□
r
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education in the leading colleges
and hospitals of Europe. He has devoted a life-
time to the study of
PRIVATE, NERVOUS, AND SKIN
DISEASES.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a w'ell-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
YOUNG MEN
who suffer from the results of early follies, trans-
gressions or excesses of more nature age, bladder
difficulties, a whitish or dark ropy sediment in
the water, accompanied by slight burning or
smarting sensation, Headaches, Drowsiness during
the day, circles round the eyes, Giddiness,
irregularity of the bowels, specks before the eyes,
bashfulness, discontentedness, weakness or pains
in the back, Liver or kidney complaints, dreams,
buzzing noises in the ears and head, pimples, a
fear that something dreadful is about to happen,
weak stomach, yellow or blood-shot eyes, impure
blood, hasty, uncontrollable temper, hacking
cough, who cannot marry, nervousness in society,
wakefulness, palpitation of the heart, general
weakness, and other symptoms which lead to in-
sanity and death, should consult him, for he has
mastered these difficulties. On receipt of 6d. in
stamps ho will send secure from observation in a
plain wrapper, postage
FREE, A LARGE CLOiH- BOUND
BOU£.
Showing plainly how all diseases of the private or
nervous system may be cured thoroughly and per-
manently without unnecessary expence. This
book will prove a valuable companion, and even
though you be perfectly well its general inform-
tion and prescription may assist you in restoring
some poor friend to health even after his case has
been pronounced incurable by his medical at-
tendant.
ONE POUND IS SUFFICIENT TO
SEND
for Remedies necessary for the cure of NER-
VOUS DEBILITY". Should you require medical
treatment, as procrastination is sometimes dan-
gerous, it would be advisable for you to sit down
quietly in your chamber and write to the doctor,
detailing every experienced symptom. He will
on receipt of such a letter, write you, promptly
and courteously, a candid and straightforward
oponion of your case. If you do not think you
understand the case, send for his famous medical
work the price of which is but sixpence; enclosed
in the volume will be found a list of carefully-pre-
pared questions, which will, in all probability,
assist you materially in describing your ailment.
Dr Richards uses nothing but the purest remedies,
and never prescribes mercury under any circum-
stances. The moment letters are carefully per-
used aiid answered they are destroyed by fire,
and patients may rest assured that their cases
will remain a secret between the doctor and
themselves. Dr. Richards has successfully treated
nearly 25,000 cases since coming to Australia, and
has permission from at least 10,000 persons to
show their written evidence of his success. - All
communications should be addressed
Dr. RICHARDS,
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION TREE.


NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION,
85 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Accumulated Funds exceed JEI^OOO^OOO
LARGE BOURSES
. AND
uasrEOTTB-i'sxi seotteitj
H. C. EVANS, J.P., Resident Secretary.
and J. STEWART’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
i a
advt
The only TUBES used by all the-Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T 1 . <jT. eltoo., 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Baes’
Ale
FOSTER'S ALE and STOUT
CS-ttiuMLCss’ Stout
ARE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
and are
NOT CHEMICALLY TREATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
WILLIAMSON -
Electrical and Engineering Company, Limited,
15 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
CONTRACTORS FOR
Electric Lighting
OF THE
BOROUGH OF H.BDFER.3XT,
IMPERIAL ARCADE, THE STRAND, EMPIRE HOTEL, GARRICK THEATRE, &c,
STATION and PRIVATE HOUSE LIGHTING.
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
LADIES.—Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fix them up equal to new.
i ) =»Or~ ini
Craig' -A-itlsio:n.,
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
Co.
RUBBER HOSE for Garden, Mining, Steam, Hydraulic and General Uses.
RUBBER BOOTS for MINING, SPORTING, SHIP USE, etc.
WATERPROOF COATS, etc.. Made to Order. RUBBER GOODS Moulded to Order.
270 GEORGE STREET, _ SVDNIEY.
Cleavepb
Javenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to Be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHETM, GOTTHELF & 00 SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Redwood, Pli.D., F.1.C., F.C S.
INSTANTANEOUS HAND CAMEEAS
SEND
FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
s£
vm
i
■
Wm
■
*:
MONTHLY CIRCULAR POSTED ON APPLICATION.
BAKER and ROUSE,
375
Photographic Stock Importers,
GrEORGrE STREET, SYOWEY
256 COLLINS STREET
69 BUNDLE STREET
46 QUEEN STREET
Wild. jA.nstra.lia!
(next A.J.S. Bank),
MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE.
Wild.
Queensland!
Lectures on “Wild Australia” and “Wild Queensland”
—T>Y *
3MI 33 El T O IST .
ILLUSTRATED BY THIRTY ABORIGINES !
Sdected chiefly from the Wild Tribes of North Queensland, including several men and women
of that mysterious race who practise what STURT, the explorer, called the “ Terrible Rite ”
A collection of over 3000 Weapons and Ethnological Specimens from all parts of Australia
Every phase of aboriginal life as seen by the early settlers of Australia-Hunting, Fighting
Songs, Dances, Corrobborees and “ Boorool ” (Bora) ceremonies. g g g ’
m* The most Exciting, Interesting and Instructive Exhibition of the Nineteenth Century!
Wm (Appear in (Brisbane, (Sydney, (Melbourne, Adelaide, (Tasmania, and g. Z
XHKT 3NT OVEMTRTriT^
ON THE WAY TO CHICAGO AND A TOUR OF THE WORLD !
The Lecturer, Mr. A. MESTON,
The well-known Queensland Writer and Explorer, is the greatest Living Authority on the Habits,
Customs, Dialects and General Ethnology of the Australian aboriginals.
Besides the finest existing Australian Ethnological Collection, Mr. MESTON will take speci-
mens of all QUEENSLAND S NAIIYE PRODUC TS, and LIMELIGHT PICTURES of
the most beautiful of QUEENSLAND’S MAGNIFICENT SCENERY
SAYWELL & CO.
marvel
T o
c c o
S T
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney.
IgT 1 MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE
Posted several times DAILY in the Build mg',
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES on the PREMISES,
spimh
..W:
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Llegan
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention w
visitors. <3T Tariff, 10s. 6d. per day. Special Rates for Families,
AARONS' EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - Proprietors.
W. W. AIKEN, Manager (18 years in the i


The Bulletin
Vol. 12—No. 664.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1892.
Price, 6d,
THE DENILIQUIN FARCE: OR, JUSTICE A LA COCKATOO-SQUATTER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians,”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half yearly ... ... ... ... 0 H 6
Quarterly... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—yon can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. hi that
city Tub Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Axis'
Italian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say ;'OOO words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
Bat we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Cos., Limited, til Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. I Vales in future will be £l, with Js. tid.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Cos., Ltd.
Xm.as Edition
—OF—
“THE BULLETIN,”
To be Published 15th December, 1892,
WILL CONTAIN MORE THAN DOUBLE THE
USUAL NUMBER OF PAGES.
A Beautifully-Coloured Humorous Double-page Supple-
ment by PHIL. MAY,
"MEASURING THE BABY"
Original Stories in Prose and Verse specially pro-
vided for The Bulletin by Leading Writers in Aus-
tralasia, among whom may be mentioned the late
Barcroft Boake and Messrs. V. J. Daley, Edmund
Fisher, “The Banjo,” E. Faveno, “Price Waning,”
Henry Lawson, E. Dyson, “ The Dipsomaniac,” “Ah
Chee,” W. L’Estrange, etc. *
Profusely Illustrated by Livingston Hopkins, Geo.
R. Ashton, F. Mahoney, Percy Spence, etc. Despite
the great cost, the whole of the contributions—artistic
and literary —will be genuinely original, and not
borrowed from English or foreign publications.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1892.
The Broken Hill Trials.
Last Saturday the N. S. Wales Government
succeeded in obtaining a conviction against all
but two of the Broken Hill strike-leaders. The
general charge upon which they were found
guilty was “conspiracy to solicit, incite, and
procure a large number of persons to unlawfully
combine, conspire, and agree together by divers
unlawful means to deter, prevent, molest, inti-
midate, and obstruct certain liege subjects of
Her Majesty the Queen " meaning thereby
that the accused stopped work along with many
others owing to a wanton and cold-blooded
breach of faith on the part of their employers,
and that they endeavoured to encourage the
worker? by delivering sundry harangues in
which they urged them to keep together just as
the employers were doing, and expressed hopes
of ultimate success which the circumstances
hardly warranted. In other words, they bade
them persevere and man down their opponents,
just as the Freetrade party sools on its ad-
herents to abolish Protectionists, and the Em-
ployers’ Union howls in the press and elsewhere
about the necessity of sitting upon, obstructing,
and intimidating the unions. The country is fullof
political organisations, every one of which exists
for the purpose of molesting, obstructing, in-
timidating, or starving out the organisation on
Ihe other side, and the law of conspiracy, as
applied in the case of the Broken Hill leaders,
s; ems to cover them all. Under the influence
of these “offenders” there was a considerable
diminution of crime at Broken Hill. There was
a falling-off in the rows which afflict every large
mining town, and the aggregate disturbance at
the Barrier during the whole course of the
strike was much less than can be witnessed on
the afternoon of one summer holiday down
Sydney harbour when the “ push ” is
abroad. Yet the “ push ” is generally
fined 405., and the Broken Hill leaders
were sentenced as follows : Sleath and Fer-
guson, two years’ hard labour ; Hewitt and
Polkinghorne, 18 months ; Heberle, nine
months ; Bennetts, three months.
* # #
The charge against the seven prisoners, apart
from the accusation re picketing, was not that
they actually did anything; only that they said
something which might have led, but which, as
it happened, did not lead, to something being
done. Their actions were all in the direction of
peace, and many incipient disturbances were
suppressed by their influence. The evidence
against them consisted largely of scraps alleged
to be taken from their speeches, not shorthanded
by trained reporters, but written from so-called
“ memory ” by detectives who were sent up ex-
pressly for the purpose of obtaining convictions.
The context was not taken, and even a milk-
and-water daily newspaper leader can be made
to read as a frantic incitement to blood and
anarchy by a judicious, but perfectly accurate,
reproduction of words and phrases here and
there. This proceeding was apparently
endorsed, or at least permitted, by Judge Back-
house, who, seemingly, failed to see any im-
propriety in these scrappy reports, and who
probably didn’t realise that even his own
judicial summing-up, when treated in a similar
fashion, could be turned into a howl for
dynamite. Most of the evidence had absolutely
no bearing on the case. One individual swore
to having wakened up in the night and heard
Sleath’s voice stating that the workers could
have torn up the rails and wrecked a whole
train-load of free labourers if they wanted to.
So, undoubtedly, they could, and so also could
Judge Backhouse have committed bigamy if he
wanted to, and the one fact is quite as per-
tinent as the other. Most of the witnesses
swore to various disturbances, at almost all
of which, they admitted, the accused were not
present. Therefore the prisoners were no more
legally responsible for these disturbances than
for the present row in Dahomey, and the admis-
sion of such statements as evidence was an out-
rage upon every principle of justice.
• # #
All through, the efforts of the Government to
procure a conviction were glaringly apparent.
At present New .South Wales is unhappily
divided into two hostile camps—the employers
and the employes. At Broken Hill the latter
class predominate, therefore the venue was
changed, not to Sydney, a neutral ground where
any prejudice which might be felt against the
defendants by one section of the community
would ha v$ been tempered by the wholesome
influence of a wide public opinion, but to the
squatting district of Deniliquin. There the men
were tried before a jury of twelve employers—
eleven farmers and one fellmonger. In other
words, they were tried before a jury of a hostile
class. The farmer, so far as sheer prejudice
enters into the workmanship of a find-
ing, is probably the best man in all
Australia to depend upon for a verdict
against anybody who is accused of doing any-
thing in the interests of high wages. He
depends mostly on cheap, nomadic labour ; he
pays lower wages and works his men longer
hours than almost any other employer in the
country ; and, in short, he is a small capitalist,
which is, almost invariably, the meanest kind
of capitalist. The excuse that the venue was
changed to Deniliquin merely because it was
the nearest place where the Circuit Court held
its sittings was too hollow to deceive anybody.
Deniliquin is not by many miles the nearest,
even in a bee-line, from Broken Hill, and by
the only available route it is almost as remote
and much less accessible than .Sydney. But in
Sydney it would be almost impossible to obtain
a jury composed entirely of employers, and,
therefore, the conviction of the accused could
not be made a foregone conclusion, as it assuredly
was in the squatting township.
# # - #
The thirty-three challenges made by the
Crown supplied another evidence of the
burning desire to obtain a reliable jury.
The accused were all personally unknown
in that locality, therefore this unusual
number of challenges was obviously directed
not against their personal friends or
acquaintances, but merely against thirty-three
men who were suspected of not being suffi-
ciently conservative for the occasion. Also,
Judge Backhouse’s assurance to the jury that,
if convicted, the prisoners would not receive
seven-year sentences, reads very like a direc-
tion to the eleven farmers and the fellmonger
that they need not hesitate to return a verdict
of “guilty ” through any maudlin or sentimental
fears lest they should be sending men on
unsatisfactory evidence to a fate little more
attractive than death. The trial of the alleged
Broken Hill “conspirators” will prove, sooner
or later, the death-knell of th’6', Dibjbs Govern-
ment. The conduct of that body, all through
the Barrier dispute, has been a disgrace to the
name of justice. Its eagerness to subsidise the
silver companies by suspending the labour con-
ditions so as to from any possible
evil resultsarising through their breach of faith;
the sinister appointment of a special magis-
trate to Broken Hill; the further appoint-
ment of the new magistrate as a sort
of military and police chief, thereby
making it logically impossible for him
to punish any outrages save on the
side of the miners, any outrages on the other
side being —owing to his anomalous position
practically the outrages committed by his own
followers ; the despatch of Government officers
to act as spies and informers, who, according
to the candid admission of one of them, care-
fully noted everything which might tell against
the accused, and carefully omitted anything on
the other side ; the shifting of the venue to a
town dominated by employers, and the packing
of the jury with members of that hostile class,
all make up an indictment which will hang
r mnd the necks of the Dibbs Government like
the corpse of its own chief’s dead Republican
principles.
V.ce-Royalty and the Melbourne Cup.
It would bo most pernicious were the idea to
bo disseminated that a growth of loyalty
involves a corresponding backsliding from
religious grace. A heavy responsibility rests
upon all individuals, occupying a position as
teachers and exemplars of right thinking, who
should in any way inculcate such an impression.
It is consequently most heartrending to notice
that the Sydney ' Morning Herald, after
having for half - a - century pretty adroitly
managed to conciliate the claims of God and
Mammon, C.M.G., while when incidental
conflicts between the two claimants on the
respect of “ every right-thinking man ” had to
be faced it generally preferred God, has at
length definitely—and all the more definitely
because with immense caution—declared for
Mammon. It is only about fifteen years since
the Herald, moved by the Spirit, and by the
Congregational Union, girded up her journalistic
loins and hurled a heavy anathema, weighted
with its most ponderous verbiage, at His
Excellency Sir Hercules Robinson, for the
iniquity of his conduct in setting a sinful
example to the community, by his prominent
participation in racing and gambling thereon,
this specimen of the bell-book-and-candle style
of pious and moral journalism gave vast satis-
faction in evangelical circles. Its peculiar
merit was the noble disregard of the culprit’s
official and social status, or rather the bold
reminder of the fact that those very attributes
made the offender’s crime weightier and less
excusable than it might have been in the case of
a man of less elevated rank and place. The
delight with which the spirited—although some-
what cart-horse-like—performance was hailed by
serious families was somewhat impaired in a day
or two by the appearance of a crushing rejoinder
from the Governor, who wielded a pen more
pointed than that of his censor, exhibited
an exceedingly stiff-necked disposition, and with
dignified raillery refuted the Herald’s best
Sunday logic, and ruthlessly disputed its
“ facts.” This rebuff was most embarrassing,
The Herald found itself involved in a most
distressing dilemma. Its religious principles
required that it should testify without respect
for persons. But its religious principles also
demanded that it should inculcate reverence
for “ those in authority.” To persist in main-
tabling its censorious attitude would involve
the acceptance of an attitude of direct antagou-
ism to the representative of the Lord’s
Anointed. Besides, it would intensify the dis-
comfort of the position in which the proprietary
of the paper already found themselves, and if
there is anything which the Herald people
adhere to more than to another, it is to keep
their moral attitude in perfect compatibility
with their own comfort and respectability.
Now, a man whom H.F. the Governor sneers
at cannot be regarded as entirely respectable,
Altogether, the situation was too painful for dis-
cussion. Dismay affected the Herald office
and the conventicle. Several parsons prayed
vindictively at the Governor. The Herald
people forgave him with the bitterest severity,
all the bitterer because suppressed. Their
charitable condonation struck inwards, and,
like smallpox, was all the more ravaging on
that account,
# # #
r r ~ .
Alter many years, the fruits of that sorrow-
ful experience have ripened. A committee of a
religious body the other day, relying upon its
ancient ally, the Herald, published a report
condemning “ vice-royalty and many of our
Jeading citizens” for “directly encouraging”
the practice of gambling upon racecourses by
their presence at Melbourne Cup. And the
Herald, at the sound of the trumpet, comes
forth magnificently to the combat. It flourishes
its pea and marches heavily to the battle,
Hut amazement falls upon every beholder
when it becomes apparent that the ex-
perienoc of the past has been sanctified
to the Herald in the remarkable sense of
teaching it that a Governor can do no wrong,
It s heart-strings were wrung when it flew in
the face of a mere Knight; they would break
were it now to blaspheme ari Farl. It is
•enough to take away a parsons breath to open
lus Herald and find thb l sentiments of the
Dead Bird solemnly delivered in the leaden
language of Hunter-street. The effect upon
every well-regulated mind must he similar to
that which would have been produced on a
worshipper at Loretto hrid the miraculous
statue of the \ irgin sung an improper song, or
distilled whisky in place of its wonted tears.
After some shocking prefatory, remarks to the
effect that a Mahommedan is riot, to be blamed
for practising polygamy, the Herald proceeds
to argue in the very spirit of the Licensed Yio-
tuallers’ Gazette, that “ it cannot be said
that there is any breach of the moral law in
going to a horse-race per se.” Then it “ will-
ingly admits ”—the Herald “ willingly admits,”
it doesn’t declare, or insist, or pri nounee that
every right-thinking person will maintain--
“ that many positions in life impose restrictions
of action on the ground, not of morality, but of
propriety.” After thus promulgating the
wholesome doctrine that propriety is of more
essential restraining importance as a virtue
than mere morality, the Herald proceeds to
illustrate its meaning. “ It might, perhaps, be
held that it would not be seemly for a bishop to
go to the races.” The pious readers of the
Herald will probably be surprised to learn
that up to the time of going to press “ a jndg-
ment ” of thunderblast and blither has not
fallen upon the office of our reverend contem-
porary, so far as we are aware. Still there
may have been a falling-off in the receipts from
advertisements. This falling away from grace
indicated in the hint to Bishop Saumarez
Smith that if he should take a fancy to
take a cab (for a shilling) to Randwiek next
Cup day, the Herald will not be hulls-
posed to justify the new departure, may
he of a nature to alarm “all right-thinking
persons.” But what follows is truly lament- .
able, and its demoralizing efleets upon the com-
munity will scarcely be neutralized by less
drastic measures than a special Sunday ol
humiliation and prayer in all the Congregation-
alist churches. While it is grudgingly admitted
that censorious persons might consider a
Bishop’s presence on the lawn, “ unseemly,’
the Herald finds it “ not easy to see on what
authority this consideration of seemliness is to
be applied to the action of viqe-royalty and
leading statesmen and citizens.” Translated
from the Heraldese language into English, this
signifies that the Herald cannot see any harm
in Governors, Ministers and leading citizens
attending the races !
# # *
Before the glamour of an Earl’s escutcheon
dimmed the sight of the S.M. Herald, it was
quite able to see why governors and other
public characters Should shun the race-
course. In the seventies it stated the follow-
ing as reasons ;—“ Horse races foster a
spirit of gambling which is antagonistic to
honest industry, and they collect together in
one spot a larger number of the vicious and
profligate than could be drawn to a focus by
any other entertainment. . . . Considering
the gambling spirit which pervades it, there is
some reason why men who desire the welfare of
the country should decline to countenance it.”
But since then the Prince of Wales has gone to
the races in preference to improving his mind
at a poet’s funeral, and in Australia earls go
regularly, resisting funerals and tea-fights and
every other counter attraction. And as it ia
obvious, as the French great lady of the pre-
revolutionary days said of herself, that the
Almighty would never think of damning per-
sons of quality—it begins to dawn upon the
Herald family that horse-racing, like the
breeding of fighting-cocks, cannot be sinful—
except for common people, anyhow. The usual
familiar stock arguments of the unregenerate
apologists for horse-gambling, that it is
no worse than stock-exchange dealings and
speculative commerce generally, fill up the
balance of the Herald’s article. These
arguments are too stale and trite to need serious
attention. It is only the place where they are
which is remarkable. In the Sporting Times,
or Fox’s National Police Gazette, they would
be merely wearisome reiteration. In the lead-
ing columns of S. M. Herald they resemble a
fly in amber. Of course they are rotten argu-
ments, whoever urges them. That share-
gambling or land-booming is vicious and dis-
honest constitutes no demonstration that
gambling on horse-races is virtuous and honest.
But an awful example lias been exhibited of the
danger of touching, tasting or handling for-
bidden fruits. It was the seductive influence of
advertisement-money that sowed the seeds of the
Herald’s downfall. Although the theatrical
and sporting ads. were shoved into the obscurest
and worst position in the paper at first, they
were read nevertheless, and the receipts from
them were not separately banked to be ex-
pended in burnt offerings. Then sporting
events were “ news,” and, if omitted, subscri-
bers grumbled and the circulation fell off'.
Next, sporting opinions and prophecies, and
accounts of the trial spins crept in. Then tips
for the coming events. And now, alas, “a com-
mittee-of a religious body ”is rapped over the
knuckles for its insolence in pretending that-
vice-royalty can have vice, and that horse-races
are not proper entertainments for anyone to
resort to.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Side Light on the Queensland Black
Slavery Question.
A female employer of Bundaberg (Q. ) has been
charged with neglecting to provide a sick
Kanaka on her plantation with necessary medi-
cal attendance and medicine when the boy
complained. Her overseer had simply given
him a dose of salts ; the boy grew worse, and
as his employer did not call in a doctor, the
black crawled two miles and begged a mis-
sionary to drive him into town for medical help.
The clergyman did so, and obtained a certificate
that the poor nigger was suffering from tuber-
culosis. Then the Government inspector in-
formed the boy's employer of his disease, and
stated that he should have medical advice and
nourishing food. Four days, afterwards the
inspector visited the boy. Nothing whatever
had been done for him, save that he had been
ordered some “stew.” The overseer deposed
that they generally kept medicine on the
plantation, but were run out this time.
He gave the cook orders to get the boy
I food food. The proprietress of the plantation
said she instructed her overseer to give the
boy everything he wanted in the shape of
nourishment. Having done this she thought no
more of him or his health. She stated, in
cross-examination, that a linseed or mustard
poultice was good, in her opinion, as a cure for
tuberculosis. She admitted she would, if she
knew of the serious nature of the nigger’s ill-
ness, have given him some milk and butter ;
there was no milk on the plantation to give
him, though she milked forty cows two miles
away. The Bench found the charge proved
and inflicted a fine of—£l ! A few days later
the same Bench fined a number of Kanakas
£3 each for participating in a tribal row on one
of the plantations ! The objection the planters
have to sending sick Kanakas into hospital
is that the law compels the employer to pay for
their maintenance there. Of the 305 persons
who died in the Bundaberg (Q.) district during
1891, 175 were Polynesian slaves. The death-
rate during that year was 67.30 per 1000
amongst the Kanakas, and amongst the white
population only 11.5 ! As the South Sea slaves
are nearly all adults, this death-rate is appal-
ling. The majority of white deaths consisted of
young children.
The Imperial Land Co.
The accountant’s report on the affairs of the
Imperial Land, Building and Discount Co., of
Sydney, is practically the same old document
which has been published so often before.
Among all the deceased banks of Australia
there is hardly one which isn’t just the same
venerable swindle over again. The Imperial
was a gaudy concern, having a nominal capital
of £50,000, with power to increase to £IOO,OOO.


The subscribed capital, as it happened, was
only about £18,500, though it was represented
as being £20,000, so the huge figures at the
head of the prospectus were there presumably
for purely advertising purposes. Five months
after the garish institution started it began to
pay 20 per cent, dividends, with a bonus added.
The next year it made a serious loss, but the
balance-sheet was judiciously “ faked,” and
two dividends of per cent, were declared.
After that the concern made a loss every time
’with unfailing regularity, and every time it
made the cooked accounts show a big profit.
In fact, after the first four months it did noth-
ing but go insolvent and struggle against fate.
The balance - sheets were crooked almost
from the beginning. The bad debts were re-
presented as assets. When anybody lodged a
valuable security with the office against a small
overdraft, the company at once rushed off
and pawned the said security for all it
would fetch, so as to raise a little coin to go on
with. Bogus deposit-receipts were issued for
alleged deposits that had no existence, appar-
ently only for the purpose that the alleged
holders of these documents might raise money
on them to keep the tottering ruin on its feet a
little longer. All the properties held by the
“ bank ” were loaded down with first, second
and third mortgages. It would be interesting
to know what rate of interest was paid on’ the
third mortgages. Considering the ghostly
nature of the security it must have been
enormous, for the first mortgage is generally
for as large an amount as can be obtained, and
the second mortgagee has a lien on every
possibility, however shadowy, that the first
man leaves, and the third one has a bill-of-sale
only over the shadow of a shade and the pallid
ghost of an impossibility. Actually the only
assets left in the Imperial are sundry over-
drafts due by customers—about £2600 in all—
and the uncalled capital, amounting to £5292,
and even this is so dismally bogus that the
anticipated cash result is only £BOO, while the
liabilities on deposits alone are some £19,000.
The late manager of the company, the lamented
Bmairl, who figured as a yachtsman and owned
a “swell ” craft, is in gaol. The auditors who
attested the balance-sheets, apparently, offer no
explanation ; and the directors merely rise to
state that they neglected the work they were
paid to attend to, and that the manager took
them in. Which means, apparently, that they
didn’t know that the company had been for years
a drowning concern clutching at sixpences, that
they knew nothing of the pawned securities, the
first, second, and third mortgages, the bogus
deposit receipts, the bad debts—in fact, that
they were altogether wooden and chloroformed
and asleep, and the manager hypnotised them.
If they can prove this their position is all right.
The law gaols the engine-driver who, through
mere negligence and with no ill-intent, smashes
up a train-load of passengers ; it cancels the
certificate of the captain who steers his ship on
the rocks in the same fashion ; but it makes no
provision for anything happening to the director
who runs a bank to destruction by sheer lazi-
ness, inattention, ignorance, and a boundless
capacity for being taken in. And why this is,
uo one has yet attempted to explain.
■ ♦ —■ —-
Did or did not Judge Backhouse (N.S.W.)
deliberately lure the Deniliquin jury, trying
the Broken Hill strikers, into a verdict of
guilty, when he spoke thus, as reported in the
daily press ?
A remark has been made about the punishment for
conspiracy being seven years ; that is a thing that rests
with me entirely. I could imprison them for a minute,
or for a longer period, hut certainly no such imprison-
ment as seven years would follow a conviction.
Artifice and stratagem could not be more cun-
ningly insinuated. His Honor (the present
legal theory being that the jury have to pro-
nounce on the facts only, and have absolutely
nothing whatever to do with the punishment)
had no right, nor shadow of a right, to make
any promises of any kind respecting what he
would or might, or what he w'ould not or might
not, do after the verdict. Doubtless, it would
have been strictly fair on the part of the
Judge if he had impressed upon the jury
the necessity for the extremest careful-
ness in its deliberations, because the
offences laid to the prisoners’ account were
punishable in a certain severe manner ; but,
beyond that, impartiality forbade his Honor
to go. This promise of Judge Backhouse
recalls in a roundabout way the promise made
by Chief Justice Darley (then plain Mister
Darley, and a barrister in practice), when he
appeared as counsel for the late Thomas
Robertson against The Bulletin. Darley
contended that his client’s character could only
be vindicated by the award of substantial
damages, but he assured the jury that his client
would not touch one penny of any damages, all
of which should be set apart for charity ! The
jury gave a verdict of £IOOO. Robertson,
however, apparently did not devote that £IOOO
to charity. Although repeatedly challenged
to make a statement, he would not say
what he did with the money, beyond show-
ing that he gave a (worthless) picture,
painted by his brother, to the N.S.W.
National Gallery, and had a stained - glass
window put into some obscure church. The
Broken Hill cases give new and forcible point to
The Bulletin’s often-reiterated insistence that
a jury’s duty should not only be to say w'hether
«■ man is guilty or not, but also hoiv guilty he
is—in other words, that the jury should fix the
sentence, under a scale prescribed by law, just
as it now fixes the amount of damages in any
civil case. The sentence, we claim, should be
an integral part of the verdict.
Two more “Gents., one, &c.,” have just been
before New South Wales Banco Court for
irregularities which in vulgar and “non-pro-
fessional ” life are called false pretences, theft,
and embezzlement, and are mot by shaving,
haircutting, hominy and stone knapping. No. 1
received £127 for the purchase-money of a
client’s property, and banked it to his own
account. When driven into a corner lie shelled
out £9O in notes and gave a worthless cheque
for the balance. Upon its dishonour he gave
security and pleaded aberration of mind.
Darley, C.J., with grief and pjiin, inflicted
a tine of £2O and costs. No. 2 got
£l3 1 Is, on pretence of obtaining pro-
bate to a will, aucl conscientiously blewed
every penny of it. The Court tearfully sus-
pended him from practice for one year and
until such further time as he refunded the loot,
with costs. In another case, in which a rule
nisi was granted, a “conveyancer of this
honourable Court ” coolly appropriated to his
own use £339, the value of drafts received from
England for two female clients. By impor-
tunity they got £2lO back, but the “ convey-
ancer ” was deaf as Sphinx to farther solicita-
tions. He knew the Judges would only look
mournfully at him for being found out.
Pastor Fitchett, in the Review of Reviews ;
“In the existing mood of public opinion Sir
Galahad himself, if he were the director of a
company in liquidation, would certainly fare ill
at the hands of a jury.” The reverend apolo-
gist for the money-dealers and bank-sharps
furthermore remarks that “ the threatened pro-
secutions would produce a political cataclysm,”
since it would put Davies and Co. on trial.
“ The existing mood of public feeling ” ! Vox
populi has always been vox Dei hitherto when
some wretched maniac was to be hanged, and
the pious and prominent friends of the respect-
able suspects are the first to feel a glow of
“honest indignation” when a “ low ” alleged
thief is laid by the heels. As for political cata-
clysm, the country can very well afford to spare
any politicians who prove upon trial to be
fitter subjects for Pentridge than Parliament.
It is “bullocky” ingenuity to hint that the
fate of the country hangs upon a set of boodlers,
anyhow.
+. _
Josiah Thomas, a Broken Hill strike-leader,
who has just been made a J.P., has distin-
guished himself by the following straight-out
utterance (according to Sydney D.T.) :
The workers must, when they get into power, seize the
magistracy and put their own men on the bench ; then
they would be able to get verdicts as they wished, not
such as were now given. Then, when they got Gatling
guns, and the troopers who now trampled them down,
they could, if occasion required, with these on their side,
trample down ruthlessly the class which now oppressed
the workers of Australia.
At this the dailies scream. Yet, disguise it
how one may, Mr. Thomas merely proposes
that Labour, when in power, shall do exactly
what Anti-labour and Privilege have done in
the past and are doing this very day. The
difference is that whereas Labour is bluntly and
foolishly outspoken, Anti-Labour works in
secret and wears the mask of hypocrisy. While
Labour makes no false pretences, Anti-Labour
uses high-flown cant to disguise its designs,
revels in euphemisms of abstract morality and
traditional class philosophy, and strangles its
foe with a Christian smile on its lips and oily
tears in its eyes. In the speech of Mr, Josiah
Thomas there is nothing to howl about. His
remarks are absolutely defensible and rooted in
truth.
• ♦
“ I have heard from the lips of a temperance
orator,” said Sir Parkes at Balmain, “ that the
Devil gave to some man the choice of three
evils—to commit two diabolical crimes or get
drunk. Thinking he chose the lesser evil he
got drunk, and then committed the two other
crimes.” From which it is plain that the
* ‘ recluse ” of Balmain would have refused the
liquor and —but let that pass. Pursuing the
congenial theme, the old man said, “ I am not
a teetotaller, I am not a Son of Temperance, I
don’t believe ” (with ghastly wheeziness) ‘ ‘ I am a
Daughter of Temperance. There has been a
war waged against the sale of drink for fully
the last generation. Have not those capitalists
who build great hotels had those warnings
before their eyes ?” It is only necessary to add
that the arch-humbug, who is now so trans-
parently bidding for the lemonade and labour
votes, presided at the inauguration of the great
Australia Hotel (erected at a cost of, say,
£200,000), and pronounced it to be a long-felt
want.
♦
The Victorian Legislative Council brought
some specially idiotic arguments to bear against
the totalisator. Levi said “ he was sure that
the discussion of the matter even had been the
cause of a large number of totalisator shops
being introduced into the city, and a conse-
quent immense increase of betting.” Levi, as
a new and ardent senator, engaged a man to go
round and estimate the number of tickets sold
at these shops, and the result was very appalling
to Nathaniel. Consequently, he voted against
a Bill which expressly limited the legalisation
of the tote to non-proprietary courses, and
which would have had the effect of making
respectable racing-clubs insist upon the closing
of said shops right away. Practically, Mr.
Nat. Levi was voting against the surest means
of suppressing the evil he condemned, and
adapting his policy to the corruptness of the
police who allowed these shops to exist.
Port. Reid, another new broom striving to
sweep clean, burst forth into solemn inanity
thuswise : 1 ‘ All laws should be equal,
but here they were asked to make
a thing legal in one place and illegal
in another. That, to any judicially -minded
person, must be fatal to the passing of this
Bill.” Ye gods ! the judicially-minded Reid,
then, would abolish liquor-licenses and allow
every man in Victoria to open a pub. to-
morrow if he felt so disposed ! By such blind
gabblers as these—for The Bulletin supposes
that they are blind, and not merely winking
their other eye —the bill for reducing the ranks
of professional gamblers was rejected. One
more instance of Council logic is worth quoting
for the sake of its unintentional humour. Mr.
Abbott “ found the clergy with the bookmakers
on one side in this matter, and the racing-clubs
on the other. He considered the colony was
overwhelmed by this betting evil, and had
come to the conclusion that the totalisator
would add a respectability to betting.’ The
fact that the church and the “ books ” were
unanimous in opposing the machine convinced
Abbott that it was respectable, for which
reason he was agin’ it.
The new Spanish postage-stamps engraven with
a picture of the baby monarch’s ugly little head,
are not very soothing to the radical eye. As an
emblem of government this dusky kid’s image
is highly distressing, in fact—yet there are
compensating pleasures to be found in a col-
lection of foreign stamps. The phiz of the late
Napoleon 111. surmounted by a laurel wreath
has given place to that of a comfortable-looking
female described as Repub. Franc., while the
venerable Emperor of Brazil is another stamp
reminder that monarchies are less numerous,
than they were even three years ago.
“British Possessions” seem to provide the
stamp-album with its humour. Canada, Nova
Scotia, also a number of out-of-the-way islands,
hang on to extravagantly loyal notions of the
Queen’s youth and beauty. Venus was a fool
to Victoria Regina as she appears on a Nova
Scotian postage-stamp. Our Sovereign Lady is
there a veritable dream of loveliness, with gum
on the back. Also, it is remarkable that the
smaller the British Possession—taking St.
Helena as a case in point—the younger is Her
Gracious and the more assertive her crown.
Before closing the album we mustn’t forget to
moralise over the stamp of H’old Hingland
proper. Look hard at that stamp, for it is
truly typical of Hinglish character. It assumes
that only one blessed country in the wide world
issues stamps. Any notification of that country’s
name would be a superfluous compliment
to “foreigners” at large. “Postage—One
Penny ” is supposed to speak for itself,
and Podsnap declines to recognise the existence
of postage apart from Hingland. Has Max
O’Rell observed this particular Jobn-Bullism ?
George Newnes, M.P., the inspirer of
Tit-Bits, Answers, etc., and the first to apply
the principle of resurrection-pie to journalism, is
about to start a Gladstonian daily. Gladstone
desires prayer for protection against his friends.
There has just been unearthed in the
Anglican cemetery, at Launceston (Tas.), a
skeleton with a heavy pair of leg-irons attached to
the leg-bones and portions of the shoes evidently
worn by the nameless cadaver. Buried in chains
and boots, as scores were on Dead Island, Port
Arthur.
A clerk in the employ of Chaffey Bros.,
Mildura, was charged at Melbourne City Court,
the other day, with damaging a policeman and
injuring a cab in which that officer conveyed him
to captivity. The case against the clerk was
sweetly simple. He had visited an oyster-shop,
beastly drunk, and requested the proprietor to
fight him for the price of a dozen shell-fish. Also,
he had pulled down a pair of curtains and en-
deavoured to lay the premises in ruins. When
the policeman arrived he became much worse, and
ultimately shoved his head and legs through
opposite windows of the cab aforesaid, out
of pure malignity. But the clerk had a
defence. He was sober as a judge when he
entered the oyster-store, and remained quite
calm and peaceful until, while in the act of pay-
ing the score, his purse was grabbed by somebody
standing near. Unable to obtain restoration of
his property and finding the proprietor unsym-
pathetic, he called in a couple of sailors to back up
his claim. Whereupon the oyster-seller fetched a
constable, who settled the case right away by
knocking the clerk down. The rest was all blood
and struggle. Between these two stories the
charge against the clerk fell to the ground, and
the Bench unanimously decided that the oyster-
man was a liar and the constable another. To
mark the magnitude of the lies told by these twin
prosecutors the Bench gave <£s costs against each
of them, and there the matter seems to have
ended. Everybody suffered, save the happy indi-
vidual who snatched the clerk’s purse and had the
satisfaction of seeing him laid low by the hand of
the Law.
“A Mean White” writes us from North
Queensland :
Dear Bulletin, —Here is a story told me by a late
Government Agent in the Queensland Slave Capturing
Industry. The schooner had been “ recruiting” for a
long time without hooking many niggers. At one island
they found that a number of Kanakas professed them-
selves willing to engage for the requisite “three yams”
(years). The chief offered to part with them if he got
sufficient trade in exchange for their bodies. The skipper
was tired of bad times, and thought of an expedient to
speedily get home with a full load. He ordered his
bos’n to remove the “ trade” boxes down to theKanakas’
hold. Through an interpreter he then informed the chief
that he and his subjects would find the “trade” there,
and they rushed down pell-mell. Immediately he had all
the “ birds ” wrangling about the booty below,
he battened down the hatches and set sail for
Queensland. The captives ineffectually tried to regain
the decks, and after a few days of starvation were
quite satisfied to capitulate. One by one the hunger-
stricken wretches were brought up and induced to go
through the form of acquiescing in the statutory agree-
ment, and touching the pen. They were all duly landed
in Queensland, and probably by this time their bones have
fertilised the cane-fields. A regulation of the “ trade ”is
that only one woman can be “recruited” for every ten
male niggers. The said regulation provides that, before
the female can be captured, the requisite number of males
must be aboard. It is further provided that a woman can
only be “ recruited ”in company with her husband. But
the first nigger captured is invariably a female. She is
enticed with a quantity of gaudy finery, and succumbs at
once. She is then used (after certain formalities) as a
decoy for the boys, and when the island is fully exploited,
the captain “marries” her to the man she fancies most.
How much the marriage ceremony is thought of by the
islanders may be judged by the fact that the husband
frequently sells the “Mary” to some more opulent
brother Kanaka on arrival at the plantation in Queens-
land. All the tribal troubles on the plantations are
caused by the sale of women. I have known a Kanaka
gin to be sold three times over, and eventually to
elope with the original Benedict. Of course they were
followed and re-captured, though they were working
honestly on another plantation on the Mary River. They
were fined £5 each and costs, which the employer paid
and recovered a moiety of the fine. The state of affairs
on a plantation may be judged from the fact that fre-
quently there is only one female to every 20 adult men.
The result can be gauged without going into details.
The Kanaka brothel in the town is the natural conse-
quence. Most of the “ fruit ” and “soft drink ” shops in
thesugar towns are really sly grogshopsand brothels, where
white women and their paramours reap a rich harvest I
know in the Gingan district several white women living
with Kanakas, and at least one Christian pastor at Bunda-
berg has not unfrequently given the Lord’s Messing to the
unions of Kanakas and whit; women. Around Bunda-
berg there are Kanakas (“ ticket ” boys) who have taken
up selections of land, and who now keep a white woman
each. On the other hand, some planters employ the
gins as domestic servants, d la Lord Leitrim. When a
Royal Commissioner a few .years ago traversed the sugar
centres to inquire into the Kanaka question, they were
treated to dinner at a plantation near Bundaberg, and,
though the employment of Kanaka labourers as domestic
savants was distinctly prohibited by law, they were
waited upon at table by dusky maidens. The fact was
never mentioned in the official report presented to Parlia-
ment-hut it was a fact, nevertheless. The people who
know most of the slavery question are those who live in
the midst of the slavts, and their opinion has been freely
expressed recently in the election of Hall, an anti-Kanaka
man, as M.L.A. for Bundaberg. Though the Act for the
re-introduction of Kanakas was rushed through the House
a considerable time since as an “urgent” measure, only
one shipful of slaves has yet been imported. In fact,
the planters have too many of the “ reliables” on hand
at present, and the only reason for |U>hing the Act
through was a well-grounded fear that next Parliament
would not sanction it.—Yours truly, A Mean White.
P.S.—The phrase, “ ticket boy,” may need explanation.
Under the old Act a boy, after serving a certain term,
obtained a “ticket,” and he could be employed in any
capacity thereafter. Such Kanakas are usually known in
the sugar districts as “ fice ” boys.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will be taken of communications ivhich arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“Guess”: Thanks. Please write again
“Midas ”(S.M.): Thanks.. ““ P.E.H.” : Thanks. Will
use—“Lala”: Won’t do. The dream business is played
0ut.... “ Rurrabogie ”; An excellent suggestion. Name
and address, please?.... “ Dibbsian Joe” ; A question- If
Her Gracious had asked Dihbs to take some brimstone-
and treacle, would he have “obliged the lady”?....
“ Reaper and Binder ” ; All very well if you only have to
handle eight or ten thousand copies. No sixpenny paper
in Australasia has a circulation even approaching that of
Tub Bulletin “ Harold F.” (M.L.); Many thanks.,..
“C.0.J."; The average successful lawyer’s income ex-
ceeds that of the average successful doctor, but the very
successful doctor makes far more than the very successful
barrister. We do not suppose any man at the Australian
bar makes £lO,OOO a year, but at least one Australian
doctor makes over £lO,OOO. Mr. Fitzgerald, of Melbourne,
is credited with making £15,000 a year, which is likely
enough, considering the universality of his reputation and
the number of important operations he performs.. “ John
F. D.” (Leichhardt): “Jock’s Wife” is not what we
would call cheerful reading....“ J.8.M.” (Broken Hill):
The faded letter that is found in a horse’s head is only a
feeble variation of the old, old will that is discovered up a
tree in the three-volume novel “W. Honeycomb”:
Your rhymes are too desperately original; “Hebrew'”
and “ see through ” are an outrage. ..“Sick Drewitt”;
After careful consideration of the first tale we don’t pine
after the series....“ Leumas ” (Caulfield): You write in
the “ Haunted Mud-cart ” style ; reminds us of the penny
dreadful about the ghost that gibbered in the ash-barrel.
... “ J.C.G.” (Wagga); There is no plot in your alleged
stories. Tell us, if there are 100 men on a gold-field and
one or two die every day, how long will the crowd last?
“ Jay Gee ” (Byrock): What do you mean by “ being-
held in high recognition ?”....“ J.C.” (Bendigo): The
company is just about three times as rotten as The Bul-
letin said it w'as. Boot story under consideration ..
“ Simon P.” (Newtown): Good par. Thanks “ V.W.”
(Narrabri): An old, grey-whiskered American joke,
originally made by T Washington’s grandfather
“ Joe the Cook” : Calling a cat “Parkes” comes under
the head of cruelty to animals ~ “ E.W.H.J.” (Rand-
wick): Received vvilh thanks “ Manaro Shepherd ” ;
Essay on the typical Australian is interesting—only is
there such athingas a typical Australian?... .“Problem”
(Goulburn); The Bulletin’s verdict is that all parties
concerned ought to be ashamed of themselves for digging
up that wretched old wheeze. The man who would do
such a thing would sell tough meat to an orphan ...
“Yarraman”; The entire absence of clothes upon your
characters is one noteworthy' objection... “K.M.”:
“Bell” excellent. .“8.C.”: Please send your name. Don’t
write on both sides of the paper. Try to write a little
less like a procession of mad caterpillars. Also, don’t
start—as you do this time—by saying that your “atten-
tion has been diiected ” to something in The Bulletin.
Perdition is full of staggered ghosts who, w'hen they were
alive, had their “ attention directed ” to something in The
Bulletin “Lncien” (Brisbane): Thanks “ H.C.D.”
(Brisbane): Rabbit poem much too ponderous. . .
“ R.J.R.” (Grafton): Ves, we have heard of that German
lottery, but don’t know anything about the “ Government
guarantee.” Anyhow, if you want to be defrauded, better
support the local swindler “ L.C.” (Hughenden):
Thanks for letter. We have absolutely no knowledge of
the “ Rambler.” “ Douglas”: Your atheistic “ pome”
is just the old story of the blow -fly sitting on a piece of
bad meat and cursing at the universe “ R.S.” (Melb.):
“ Lonely Grave ” under consideration.... “ Bluegum ” :
If one man drinking another man’s beer is your
idea of wild bush humour, then what are the
bushmen like when they aren’t humorous?. ..“ 6.5. J.”
(Launceston): If your poem w'asn’t a whisky “ad.,” we
apologise. The mistake arose through our total ignorance
of whisky and our manful adherence to kerosene as a
steady' drink “Bluegrass”: Nothing new in your
article on “ Prayer.” Only, why in thunder did you send
it here of all places? The only bushman we ever knew to
be much addicted to prayer was a man with a large
appetite, whose life w T e once saved when he was choking
with a two-ounce piece of salt-horse. That man prayed
hours daily, and at night w-rote letters on confirmation to
the Bishop of Ballarat by the light of a slush-lamp. In
return for our presence of mind and surgical knowledge,
he defrauded us of £37 wages “Nomad”: Will boil
down y'our column of haggard syntax to eight lines....
“Wog”: We never heard of such a regulation
“ Harry G ” : The average secret society is only
a congress of bigots, howling passwords at each
other across an ocean of cheap and gaudy mystery
“Orlando”: The man who says he has “a few passing
thoughts welded into song ”is a loathly thing. Besides,
this isn’t a “ great paper of the Southern seas it is a
sixpenny rag on land “ W.E.H.” (Broken Hill): The
reason why a heavy protective tariff decreases Customs
receipts is simply because it stops the importation of
“foreign luxuries” and makes “Australian luxuries”
take their place. When the tariff is high enough,
importation must stop, then revenue stops also
“Scandalous Jack”: After reading the lost bushman’s
poetry we are truly glad that bushman was lost. Other
items under consideration... “Paris”: You have made
the subject so clear that a dead cow' couldn’t misunder-
stand it without assistance “Omar Pasha”: A good
many people have written about the mistake. You
can’t make the smallest error about a horse with-
out all Australia boiling over. Yet, if we asserted
that Pompey was half - brother to Moses, hardly
anybody would notice the difference “G.H.M.”
(Parramatta): Regret it is hardly suitable
“ D.W.” (Blackall): Thanks. Will use., . “J. 0.”
(Harden): Your hideous shriek is based entirely on the
assumption that N.S. W. crime “ has increased 75 per cent.
in five years.” As it happens, crime has hardly increased
at all ; in proportion to population it has actually
decreased. Therefore your plea for flogging has been shot
out of the back window “Leumas”: You say these
puns “just came into my head.” Why, better jokes
come into our feet almost every day—“J.S.S.”: We
intend to hurl your verse at the two bards and then stand
from under... .“Myall ” (Eungalla, Q.): Thanks...
“Pegasus” (Wentworth): Received with thanks
“ J.J.0.” (Paddington): We can’t be quite sure what you
are driving at, but presume that your intentions are
honourable “ J.H.K.” (Woolloomooloo): Under con-
sideration “H. 5.0.”: “The tame poodle of a Tory
Club ” is not original, but you have not quoted it, which
throws doubt on the originality of all you have sent .. .
“ J.C.H.” : You can only sue them for debt—unless you
can prove an organised system of false promises.
Age reports ; “The cause of death was a
disease for which she had been receiving medical
treatment.” The doctor’s solicitor will probably
draw Sytne’s attention to that par.
The first letter carried from Thursday
Island to Normautqn cost the Queensland Govern-
ment <£l66 13s. Id. The contract was for <£2600
a year, and only one letter went during the first
month.
A Melbourne parson thinks the views of
latter-day socialists to be utopian, and goes on to
advise his congregation to look forward to the
New Jerusalem, the golden city of everlasting
peace. Pulpit logic.
The Duchess of Buckingham, accompanied
by her protegee, Miss Wolff-Murray, a beauty
who has refused several titled suitors, comes to
stay with the Hopetouns at Melbourne shortly.
O.htT personages to follow.


THE BEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid tjo Policy-holders in Forty-nin<? Years
—BY—
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Funds Exceed. £33,150,000,
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Profits paid to Policy-
holders. Bonuses larger than in any pther company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and:
we will forward you an illustration of the benefits to be obtained under modern of life and
investment assurances, in which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
immediately upon receipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Company’s
agencies throughout the world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia*
Principal Agency : ... ... 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches : 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; 223 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
Mrs. Beeton says: “Claret should be
sound', fruity, and soft as satin, and all the com-
ponents happily blended into a homogeneous
whole. Easy of digestion, it is a mildly stimu-
lating drink, in every way fulfilling the Scriptural
character as a ‘ wine that maketh glad the heart
of man.’” Innes’s Boar’s Head Clarets, at all
grocers, at Is., Is. fid., 25., and 3s. a bottle, can
be recommended as purer and better wines than
French clasts, and they are only one-third of the
price.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Silver King.”
Carrington Grounds Fillis’ Circus.
Melbourne shows for coming week.
Princess's Gaiety Burlesque.
Theatre Royal Maggie Moore Co.
8ij0u.... “Niobe.”
OderA House Alabama Minstrels.
Alexandra.... Comedy Co.
The approach of Melbourne Cup inspired
George Rignold to return to Sydney Majesty’s
last Saturday and put up “The Silver King ” as
a warning and a horrible example. The audience
welcomed Mr, Rignold with an ovation, and noted
that that gentleman is much thinner than be used
to be, and wears the haggard expression of a man
about to open a bank. Also—perhaps because he
is thinner —he plays the part of Wilfred Denver
better than he ever played it before. He doesn’t
attempt to make Denver too young, for one thing,
and thus strive hopelessly after the impossible; in
fact, he comes back from exile in Act 111.
looking very, very old and stern and weary.
In the early stages of his career, Mr. Rignold pets
his countenance up exactly like that of the Prince
■of Wales, while the rest of him looks like Henry
VIII. after a mighty drunk; but in the closing
scenes he is a long, thin, sad millionaire, dressed
in solemn black, and towers in the background
like a repentant ink-blot on the face of a snowy
landscape. It is The Bullbtxn’s own secret
•opinion that the story would be a lot more true to
life if the Silver King returned in a riotous and
inflated condition, with all his remorse worn away
through attrition against the iey bones of Nevada's
mountains ; but, as it happens, the author hasn’t
built it that way, and tbestar has to make the bestof
it as it stands. And Wilfred Denver,
■despite sundry drawbacks, is a fine
specimen of that British enterprise
which goes forth to the ends of the
earth and grabs the erater-hole and
the desert, and floats the cyclone
into a syndicate ; and it is refresh-
ing to know that even while he is
repenting of his sins in dust and
ashes and a long-tailed coat with
fur round the collar, the miners in
Nevada are still digging out silver
for him and being lead-poisoned at
two dollars a day, and his income
is coming in steadily all the time.
# * #
Miss Henrietta Watson is a
convincing success as Nellie Denver,
and does her part with a genuine
pathos which is not too pathetic,
but just pathetic enough. She
looks exceedingly beautiful in her
best clothes, and in the tattered
habiliments of her less fortunate
times she doesn’t look quite so
lovely. Clothes are an essential
of beauty, and it is only when the
heroine fails to act up to her charac-
ter that the lovely hair of her better
days doesn’t hang about her like
a horsetail in the period of distress.
Mr. Sass is a really good Spider,
and like everybody else who has
ever played that character, he
wears a gaudy velvet jacket with
much millinery upon it when he
isn’t out burgling. The fatuousness
with which the Spider discusses
his nefarious schemes when strangers
are about, and the reckless manner
in which he stows the plunder in
a safe, the doors of which will blow
open owing to. there being no,
back to it, are the saddest features
in an otherwise strong charac-
ter, but Mr. Sass isn’t responsible for these
things. Mr. Shine, as Father Xmas, a dirty
philanthropist with a quantity of disused
carpet growing from his jaw, is better still; and
this performance is by far the best thing he
has yet accomplished. Also Mr. Sterling Whyte
makes a lot out of the lamentable character of
Jaikes, the weeping retainer of the family; little
Lala Pelham, as Cissy Denver, is about GO per
cent, more natural than any other child actress
we have met for several years, and the other lead-
ing features in a strong company are Messrs.
Watt-Phillips and Emma Gwynne ; and Mr.
Hans Phillips as a flabby boy who is always rush-
ing upon destruction. The whole 15’scenes are
constructed on a gorgeous and artistic scale, par-
ticularly the sunset which heralds the return of
the Silver King, where a red orb glares from a red
sky across an expanse of blood-red snow, while a
red fence straddles away across the fields, and
Denver stands ip the background and. recognises
his own red offspring after a long and weary
separation. The “ Silver King ” ought to be good
for a lengthy run if it keeps anywhere within gun-
shot of its first-night standard.
** * *
•“ Fillis’ great circus and menagerie,”
which is now doing business at Brisbane, expects
to reach Sydney on November 19, and open at the
Carrington grounds. This show consists of 70
people, 30 horses, 10 ponies, four lions, five
elephants, two tigers, and a liberal assortment of
monkeys, mixed reptiles, and the like; and if a
depressed community can find solace in the tigers,
and can fill its inward yearning with the other
animals, the company expects to put in a six
weeks season.
** * *
Messrs John Gqurlay and Walton will
start a comedy season at Sydney Garrick next
Saturday, therefore “ LaFille de Madame Angot ”
necessarily closes its mirthless career on Friday
night. The general impression is that it ought to
have closed a good deal earlier. Ever since
Gilbert and Sullivan’s appearance it has struck
the public like a falling bank that the old variety
of alleged comic opera is a frozen and dreadful
thing, and nothing has happened of late to alter
this impression. Therefore when the ancient
thing is resurrected it looks like the reappearance
of last year’s sodden ham-pie on the dinner-table,
and the public sniffs drearily at the ancient
victual, and passes.
*# * *
Saturday was the saddest Derby night that
Melbourne theatres have ever experienced. The
favourite had won, but bis “legion” of backers
didn’t roll up to support the drama. Not one of
the five houses was crowded out.
* # *
The Princess’, however, went very near to
turning money away. “Faust Up to Date,”
although handicapped with a half-crown booking-
fee, justified the confidence of the management by
winning the Big Business Stakes in a canter from
a poor field. Competing against many former
cracks from the Gaiety stable, “Faust Up to
Date ” would make a poor show, no doubt, but
this critical consideration didn’t affect the result
on Saturday. “ Faust ” intends to run for a week
and on Saturday next the weedy “ Carmen Up to
Data” will be stripped (in moderation) for the
fray.
* * Hi *
Maggie Moore’s short season at the Royal
opened with a respectable bang. A tone was
given to the occasion by two elderly gentlemen
who assembled upon the stage after the third act,
and in the name of the N.S.W. and Victorian
Bowling Associations, presented floral tributes to
the “star.” As a reminder that Lizzie Stofel is
not forgotten, and will ever remain bowling green
in the memories of her old admirers, this little
FALK, PHOTOGRAPHER.
MAIE SAQUI.
function came under the head of “ gracerui.” The
rest of the entertainment seemed to consist of
Maggie chasing a fair-haired kid through chaos.
Sometimes she obtained possession of this import-
ant infant, and then she hugged it close and sang
songs expressive of a father’s joy. At other times
she was parted from the little lamb by adverse
circumstances and suffered keenly, but at last she
became happily engaged to. a reformed “toff,”
who told his love through his pose, and was other-
wise dreadful. “Meg, the, Castaway” is a
hideous drama for any popular favourite to, travel
round with. The motive, power of the story is
provided by a bull-pup, which bites a box of
matches in the first act’ On Saturday they will
change the bill to “Forty Nine,” and the change
pan’t help being for the better.
** * *
At the, Bijou it was soon found advisable
to support “Walker, London,” with “In Honour
Bound,” since when the demand for seats has
visibly increased. “Walker, London ” improved
after tHp first night. There is a good deal of
placid human interest about this sketch of life on
a house-boat, and the people who come and go ip
the punt are very real. But the casual carryings-
on of a disguised barber amongst a small party of
friends are not a matter of much moment, and as
there is little else but the barber in “ Walker,
London,” the performance is voted thin. Plqasant,
amiable, and bright, but dreadfully thin. The
comedy suffers from the same drawback as many
of the nicest girls on earth, and is not the kind of
article that the average man will run after. Hqnee
B- and B. announce the first Australian appear-
ance of “Niobe ” for Saturday (sth).
** * *
The Alabama Minstrels are rapidly falling
into neglect at the Opera House. In point of
fact, these niggers are not as passable as we
thought they were, and a previous Bulletin
notice which referred to Franks and Harvey as
‘comedians” is herewith unconditionally with-
drawn. Even Wood and Emerson are restricted
to one line of comedy, and that is soon used up.
As comic singers they lie heavy on the chest.
Perhaps the decline in receipts, or bad luck at the
races, has taken some of the wind out of Wood,
Emerson, and Co. Anyway, there is little joy
left in this unparallelled entertainment.
** * *
Of “Mixed,” at the Alexandra, it would
be a waste of space to say kind things, inasmuch
as the comedy was blighted before the curtain
rose. A capable co. played “ Mixed ”to the best
of their ability, whilst a few people, who seemed
to have straggled in by accident, sat around the
vast theatre and gave themselves up for lost. The
piece was well-mounted, and the solemn ticking
of an elegant clock on the mantelpiece testified to
the completeness of the arrangements, but no
rational timepiece will go on ticking to bare
benches for long.
** * *
Max O’Rell and a quantity of other
matters are doing pretty well. An International
Sportsman’s Exhibition is being held at the
Exhibition Building, and Fitzgerald’s Circus,
taking advantage of the prevailing interest in
horse, has pitched its tent once more upon the old
spot, and is booming as of yore.
** * *
Brough and Boucicault talk of “ bidding
adieu to the Melbourne public ” on December l(i,
when their lease of the Bijou expires. From the
first they have seldom done as well as they’ve
deserved in the new theatre, and this year’s busi-
ness has disheartened them entirely. The saying,
“always something good at the Bijou,” is quite a
proverb in Melbourne,, nevertheless. People
dropped out of the way of going to the house
without losing their respect for it, and other people
who would still like to go once a week to the’
dress-circle, as of yore, keep religiously away
because they can’t afford the five shillings,
Brough and Boueicault’s warmest admirers and
most faithful supporters mostly went bung with
the land-boom. They were speculative persons
who came for “a hearty laugh” as long as their bills
were being renewed, but when the renewing came to
an end they grew too sad to laugh heartily any
more. So B. and B. intend to give Melbourne
best until the “ wave of depression” has rolled by,
and “confidence has been restored ” by the united
efforts of Bent, Fink, and other stout gentlemen,
who are now engaged in “putting their shoulders
to the wheel ” and shoving the public welfare out
of the mud. Melbourne, or as much of it as pos-
sesses any intelligence, will be sincerely sorry to
lose the good company that can play a farcical
comedy and a powerful drama with equal success.
On the other hand, Sydney will be glad to see
them, and both cities join in a simple, earnest
prayer that the coming change will benefit Brough,
Boucicault and Co. in every respect.
* iif * *
Our London correspondent : —I aim sorry
to have to say that the new play, “ The Queen of
Manoa,” by our young friend Haddon Chambers
and Outram Tristram (of “Red Lamp” fame),
which was written specially for the opening of
Mrs. Langtry’s season at the Haymarkeb, is
a distinctly poor one, and has been received
with every sign of disapprobation. It is hard to
say on which of the collaborators the blame must
rest, for it is impossible to spy where Haddon
begins and ends, and where Tristram comes in at
all. There is some good writing in the play, in
which one can trace the touch of Chambers’ hand,
but these redeeming bits are few and far between.
The plot is feeble, the action sluggish, and the
play itself fragmentary and unsatisfactory. I
cannot see where it can possibly be improved, or
that it is at all likely to be worked up into even
a qualified success. The whole of the incidents
of the play are compressed into two days, a period
hardly sufficient, one would think, for rational
people to fall in love in and do all that Lady
Violet and her romantic lover manage to do. It
is a modern play, and in modern days, even
admitting that we go, pretty fast, it is surely a
best on record to have a first meeting, a
terribly earnest love affair, a breach - of-
promise of marriage, an explanation with an easy-
going husband, a lover’s dismissal, a lot of
hugging, a terrible scene of leave-taking, and
a suicide. The thing is too unreal. There was
much hissing when the author was called for, and
Haddon presented himself just outside the curtain
on the prompt-side, wearing a very nice Inverness
cape and a, sardonic smile, and showing a red silk
handkerchief stuffed into, his waistcoat. He
bpwed, gave one fierce,, contemptuous glance
around, and disappeared. Tristram lacked the
pluck to show himself,, or perhaps he hadn’t his
dress-clothes op. The Lily acted tl» part of
Lady Yiolet as if quite used to that kind
of thing. She wore splendid diamonds, and gowns
which were so many dreams, but, after all, fine
jewels and fine frocks will not entirely atone for a
bad piece, and the “Queen, of Manoa” must be
\yritten down a very hoary frost indeed. Chambers
is writing a play for Beerbohm Tree. lam pretty
confident that it will be a success, for Tree’s acting
alone will give it a great lift, and it is sure to be
staged and played to perfection, which, is more
than pan bp,said of the “Queen of Manoa,” where
we were supposed' to be in an atmosphere of swell-
dom, but where none of the players looked like
“gentlefolk.”
At Poverty Point.
Plain Bill Holloway’s next door neighbour at Bedford
Park, London, has given notice to his landlord. It
appears that Bill has been energetically rehearsing his
part of Kent d (a Demosthenes.
Nellie Bromley, nice old-time actress, once a pal of
Baron Carington, is reported to have reconciled Wales
and Labby, at Horn burg.
Miss J.osephine Deakin’s success in the dashing character
of Clairette, in “ Madame Angot,” at Sydney Garrick, has
been such that) an engagement in one or other of the
Sydney or Melbourne pantomimes may be anticipated.
Mrs. Patten, a clever, woman (born in Sydney) lecturing
in Melbourne on Japanese Recollections, was on the
Melbourne stage, in the last generation, after whioh she
displayed ingenuity in inventing and patenting iron
gravestones—if the word may be allowed.
At Bau, Fiji, where there is little coin, Snazelle gave
hiashow in a church, and accepted admission-payment
ip kind, which panned out thus: —“ £1 18s. in money ;
7 models of native canoes; 63 pearls, from the size of a
pin’s head up to a small pea, except a black one which is
about the size of a lady’s little finger-nail; 428 moon-
stones, mostly very small—in some cases a man would
offer a Bryant and May’s matchbox full, in other cases
only one would be given, but we were not proud,—we took
them all; 103 native fans; 26 war clubs; 8 bows and
arrows ; 31. spears ; 3, native-made fishing creels ; 16
whales’ teeth ; 63 sharks’ teeth; 400 yards of native cloth,
beaten out of tnd bark of a tree and of all manner of,
patterns; 11 ndtive.made fish hooks; I painting of
the crucifixion, ‘painted by a Fijian on native cloth ;
4 reed baskfets; coooanuts innumerable, and last and
funniest, one old chief brought a full-sized pig and wanted
to pass his family in on it.”
Fred. Leslie has finally decided to continue at London
Gaiety for apother 12 months. Fred, concludes that a
certain £lOO per week is better than management.
“George ,te,ggess as an impresario has given
much gratification! to ms many friends in London.” Mr.
Forbes’ London friends are easily satisfied.
Pretty Kate Chard has got fat and has got all the fat hi
the new London comic opera, “ The Wedding Eve.” One
air, “ Polly up a Pear Tree,” is described as infectious.
When Pattie Browne appears on the London stage sh«
must beware of saying “ gyurl.” The Brough and Bouci-
cault company have a weakness for “ gyurl.”
Spagnoletti: “fdefy any Melbourne manager lo show
he has made a shilling this year,”
A card from Charles B. Hicks tells us that on the sth
Sept, at Yokohama (Japan) “ Mdlle. Le Blonde, the clever
equestrienne of Harmston’s Cjrcus, was matrimonially
united to George Harmston, of same co.”
There is money in the concert idea. Turner’s star
concerts at Adelaide Exhibition ground) were a big
success. At the last concert 3000 people paid for admis-
sion.
If the Gaiety Co. really take that unfledged alleged
comedian 'Ome with them, The Bulletin is quite sure
they only do so because it will be so much easier to lose
him in London,
Billee Barlow relates, in London, that when in Sydney
she asked the Chief Justice to patronize her compli.
mentary benefit, and got this reply: “Lady Darley
presents her compliments to Miss B. Barlow and regrets
extremely that she and the Chief Justice are unable to
accord their patronage to Miss Barlow’s benefit on June
10th. Lady Darley begs that Miss B. Barlow will under-
stand that this refusal is caused entirely by her dis-
approval of the play of ‘Little Jack Sheppard,’ which
she considers likely to do great harm to the youth of the
lower classes in this country, and the more fascinating
the character is made (as in the person of Miss B. Barlow")
the more mischief is it calculated to do. The Chief
Justice and Lady Darley would have had much pleasure
m acceding to Miss Barlow’s request had the play been a
different one.” “Twaddle of this kind is not an
Australian monopoly,” remarks Billee. And why on earth
does Darley, C.J., thus turn up his nose at the Jack
Sheppards out of whom he makes his weekly wage of £7o?
At a private picnic, the other day, a Sydney pressman
attempted to give an imitation of Lonnen singing “ Mrs.
’Enry ’Ctrkins.” It took several people to hold “Teddy ”
back.
The advt. of a theatrical co. which recently played at
Melbourne spoke of them having “tortured” instead of
“ toured ” the other provinces with great success.
They say that Elton receives £lOO weekly at the New
Trafalgar, London. Of that there is a shadow' of doubt.
Billie Barlow is playing at the Pavilion, London. Not
a theatre, but a music-hall.
Charles Glenney was invited to stop and play the hero
in “The Lost Paradise,” but wouldn’t postpone his
departure for England on any account. In the
event of Glennie being available Sass was to have appeared
as the new partner.
Wilmot Eyre, demised at Johannesburg, was engaged
to an Australian actress, who went to England to meet
him, and there heard the news of his death. The name
is rather unlucky, for Gerald Eyre’s death in Melbourne
may be remembered. Gerald came with Boucicault.
A Sydney merchant has secured the reversion of a
divorcee who used to delight the gods at the principal
Sydney theatres, but who is now to forsake the boards,
“J. Rogers ” writes to say that Meston’s show
aboriginals were all selected by B. H. Purcell, a man of
“ vast experience ” with the aboriginals of nearb’ all the
Australian provinces. He describes Purcell as “ a grand
bushman," a fine rider, swimmer, and bushcraftsman.
“Years ago, on the Murray river, be could strip a bark
canoe, spear fish, stalk game, throw the boomerang (left
handed), dance and sing corroborees, and track with the
best of the blacks,” by whom he was dubbed Waawi
(“brother”), and who are said have put the tribal
scars on Purcell as a sign of brotherhood. Purcell is said
to have frequently swum rivers with food in order to save
people from starving.
Dear Bulletin,—A Sunday newspaper ought to have
more sense of decency than to quote, in a leading article,
that description of Cleopatra :
“ Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale.”
I thought everyone but the Shakespearian commentators
knew what “custom” meant in this passage—c.f. in
“Othello,” Act IV., sc. 1, “customer.”—P.C.
A lady member of the London Gaiety Company received
per post, from “an unknown friend,” during the recent
Sydney season a present of a cake of Pears’ soap. There
are some horribly sarcastic people in this world.
Rumoured that B. and B. intend to tour America, on the
conclusion of their coming Criterion season, with a com-
plete comedy co.
Sydney Royal, Criterion and Lyceum—two old theatres
and a new one—are rapidly getting ready for Christmas
opening. How five theatres are to be kept going, the
banks only know.
Wilton Jones, author of several small plays, writes a
pantomime on “Babes in the Wood” for Coppin and
Bland Holt. Bland, it is said, will, after a long lapse,
once more clown it.
They say that Lilian Tree may re-open Sydney Opera
House with English opera, under the management of
Fred. Hiscocks, sometime in the future.
Emily Soldene, evacuating Sydney Garrick to Gourlay
and Walton,, may open the Opera House with “The Merry
War,” an opera by Strauss. But as her Sydney season
concluded in consequence of a bother over the rights of
that piece, the rumour probably isn’t true.
Addle Conyers, Alice Leamar, Courtneidge and' Haslem
will assist in Sydney Lyceum pantomime.
Onfe of the titbits in “ Walker, London,” is the tight-
lacing of Miss Temple, by Boucicault, as W.G.
William Rignold says Irving and Ellen, Terry ought to
come to Australia, but without a company.
Mrs. “Boniface” Lane will be remembered in Mel-
bourne. In England her second daughter has got a £lsa
week theatrical engagemem, with Wilson Barrett.
The Promenade Concerts, Melbourne Exhibition, con-
tinue to draw. Now, here’s a man, Turner, who gets hold
of the right end of the stick, collars the dibs, banks the
brads, snavels the spondulix, burgles the brass, cops the
coin, biasses the bunts, racks off the ready, wrenches the
rex pecuhiarum, by his nous, while other managers whine
in their old grooves and ruts.
An afterwards well-known N.S.W. operatic artiste was,
while a girl, resident with a private teacher of music
addicted to secret alcohol. One morning the teacher got
the girl to take a walk, and, by devious paths, led the
way to the police-station, where she sprang the hysterical
surprise of giving her young charge into custody for
“ stealing my plait of back hair 1” The otticer-in-charge
was compelled to,arrest the young lady, but sent a police-
man back with the old lady—in whom, at last, he began
to suspect latent d.t.—to search the house. The “back
hair ” was found under its owner’s bed.
An orchestral director in London consented to assist at
the trial of a young lady aspirant. Ma was present and
perspiredi with gratitude. “ I really must make you a
present,” said she. “I, don’t require anything,” replied
the gallant musician, “ But I shall leave something for
you behind the stage.” She did—a parcel which, when
opened, disclosed two haddocks and four bloaters ! — Era.
‘Our Boys” is revived at London Vaudeville, where
Gatti Bros, rule—wee Thorne. James, Barren, Sophie
Larkin, and Cis Richards, resume their places in the oast,
but Kate Bishop, of course, doesn’t, nor Warner,, nor
Thorne.
Tnere was an alarm at a Rockhampton (Q.) hotel, the
other night; the inmates crowded tremblingly together,
wondering at fearful noises below. Two circus elephants,
which had got loose, had raided the hotel larder and were
coming upstairs for more.
A powerfully ignorant police-court reporter of Sydney
D.T. was once sent to hear and criticise a classical musical
performance. Being told that one of the “numbers’
was a duet from Rossini’s “ Stabat Mater,” he phoneti-
cally dovetailed into his notice an allusion to that “fin 6
nautical duet. ‘ Starboard Martyr.’ ” Which lovely bull,
as it gave no clue to theco nposer’s name, was duly’ passed
by the sub-editor.
Clairvoyance Extraordinary 1 A Melb. paper of 25th
Oct. has a critical notice of “ The Silver King,” produced
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on the 29th, in which.Rignoldi
gets heaps of jam.


THE
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(OU(;iMSEI> 1845)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
over all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Go. in the world. .
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
R<YNT) STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
burroughes
- AND—
WATTS,
BILLIABD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
BILLIARD REQUISITES ALWAYS on HAND.
Time Payments if Required.
S— JAMIESON LANE—S
SYDNEY.
The Wild Cat Column.
“The (Broken Hill) directors preferred putting
New South Wales to immense expense, and preferred
injuring the trade of South Australia, tb conferring
with working miners. The whole economy of the
country should suffer, trade be paralysed, a city starve,
before these superb autocrats would confer with working
miners. It is a pitiable exhibition of tyranny, and a
lamentable illustration of the misplacement of power.
Ballarat (Vic.) Courier.
* * *
According to calculations made by a conscien-
tious Bulletin man who reads the daily papers, 5400 free
labourers have left Melbourne for Broken Hill since the
outbreak of the strike.
# * #
Hodgkinson’s new Mineral Lands Bill (Q.) is a •
mere hypocritical pretence intended to sugar-coat the
land-grant railway grab, by gammoning that miners will
have the right to work on the railway grants handed to
the syndicates. But the miner is so afflicted with pre-
ventive clauses that the Bill might as well not be in exist-
ence. On syndicate land a miner may commence to really
mine only at 70 feet below the surface! If 25 acres is
pegged out as a mining area, only a-quarter-acre of sur-
face is permitted to be used for shaft-sinking; the rest
would be done by driving underground galleries. Then
the syndicate may have surface damages assessed at any
time it pleases, and the assessor may prohibit the miner
from working on until the sum so assessed is paid,
Further, the syndicate may at any time inspect the
underground workings, at the miner’s expense. The
miner is to be sucked dry.
* * *
The N.S.W. Natatorium, after a big advertising
Hourish, has gone into liquidation—primary cause, £lOO
per month ground-rent. The liquidator advertised a few
days ago that all claims against the co. should be in by
a certain date. They came, including one from an
innocent shareholder, whose claim read; “To purchase
of 50 shares in N.S.W, Natatorium 00, at £l—£so. A
cheque will oblige.”
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Should an official assignee in
bankruptcy be allowed to carry on business as a merchant?
I say No, ‘What do you say?—Lex.
# * *
“In the soup” is the professional guinea-pig.
From a Shoalhaven River sluicing co. prospectus:
“ Neither do we carry any deadbeats in the shape of pro-
fessional directors.” How- has the mighty boomer fallen!
(n our mind’s eye do we see one Sydney magnate saying,
with the lordly air of other days: “ My honorarium for
accepting a seat on that board must be £5OO. Take it or
leave it!”—and they took it. Now, how much would
they give him—to leave his name out?
# * *
The farce of examining some 50 applicants for
the position of Inspector of Mines was proceeded with in
Sydney recently. They were ranged like school-children
with papers and pencil. Several of them resented that
mode of procedure, and, depend upon it, they were the
most competent. Little wonder that the officials of N.S.
Wales are laughed at in Victoria and Queensland.
* * *
A Barrier prospector sends us an exhilarating
description of the proceedings of the Great Eastern Lode
Co., so mysteriously floated in London early this year,
lie says the co. holds eight 40-aore and two 20-acre blocks
by the employment of seven men, and he wants to know
how it is done. If this is a fact, then the Lord—at the
head of the co.—only knows how it’s done.
# * •
A series of mining wardens’ reports concerning
the N.S.W. Northern goldfields have been published, and
in almost all we notice that while the yields are correct
the prospects of the mines are exaggerated and the reefs
very conveniently enlarged.
* # *
N.S.W. Supreme Court has given a ruling
tantamount to deciding that a “syndicate”— i.e., an
unregistered company that incubates a registered com-
pany and divides the preliminary “oof” as “first
robbers”—is, for all purposes of agreement and contract,
the same as an ordinary, legally-understood “company.”
This knocks the safety-clause from under the off-chance
failure.
# * *
Editor Bulletin,—Sir, I am a director of the
Great Eastern Building, Investment and Deposit Corpora-
tion, and I put it to you whether I am not entitled to
sympathy under the following circumstances, I was
sitting in my private office —where I transact my pro-
fessional business, altogether apart from the affairs of the
Great Eastern Co., of which I am only one director among
several, when in walked a man who said, “ I ve come to
ask you to help me to recover the £O5O which 1 deposited
in the Great Eastern ! ” “ Sir,” replied I, “ these are not
the Great Eastern’s premises ; this is my professional
office. I can’t discuss Great Eastern matters with you
here. Go and see the manager. lam only a director.”
The man flew into a violent passion and exclaimed:
•‘By G ,is that the way you talk? You scoundrel,
unless I get my money, you will soon be eating
hominy, or I’ll put a bullet through you!
“ Keep calm,” said I; “ you are excited.” “ Excited !”
said he, “ I'm calm enough, vou scoundrel! I mean just
what I say. If 1 don’t get my £650, I’ll have you in gaol,
or I’ll shoot you like a dog.” “Man,” said I, “you
aren’t the only loser. I have suffered as well as you.
You are owed £650. I have had to leave the fine mansion
1 built and live in a house that costs only 30s. a week
rent!” “You ruffian!” screamed he; “to save my
£650, which you got by false pretences, I’ve had to live
for years on 30s. a week ! ” “But you will admit that
there is some little difference in our positions ? ” “ Differ-
ence ? Yes, there is a difference in our positions. You
are a thief and a jumped-up scoundrel; I’ve tried
to be an honest man. If I don’t get my money, I’ll cut
your heart out.” As such things are now of constant
occurrence, I ask you wffiether the law should not take
some special steps in this time of malignant resentment
to secure the safety of responsible and respectable men
who have a stake in the country ?—Yours, &e., Sydney.
# * *
Sir Samuel Griffith, Q. 0., was advisory counsel
to the Queensland Investment and Land Mortgage Co.,
Limited, and was the primary cause of the actions
brought against Mllwraith and others. This was, of
course, before the coalition period and when his venom
was still active against M'llwraith and others. Pleasant
news this for the stout and apoplectic half of the Gnffil-
wraith, _ „
tt * *
The Age remarks that to it are due “the thanks
of English depositors and shareholders (in the Mercantile)
or living wide publicity to the internal affairs of the
nstitution.” This, of course, is pure " gall ” ; the Age
aas played a miserable second fiddle to the Argus in the
whole business.
* * *
The Commercial Agency, Trading, and Banking
Co., of Sydney, went into liquidation last week. It was
founded and managed by John H. Nathan, formerly of
the Australian Banking Co. and various other enterprises.
The petition sets forth, among other things, that most of
the individuals who bossed the company took up
shares by the simple process of discounting a bill with
the co. and buying the shares with the money. Also,
many of them paid their calls the same way. Some of
them met these bills, but others didn’t. They also, it is
alleged, allotted themselves gratis considerable numbers
of shares apparently as an expression of admiration at
their own enterprise. One director, for example, is said
to have bought five shares and received forty more as a
sort of testimonial. Out of £9OOO alleged assets on hand,
less than £l7OO are described as “ good.” Hopes are
entertained, however, that by sitting heavily on the
shareholders it will be possible to meet all claims, and
perhaps a small surplus will be left. The shareholders
will be left also.
# « *
One of the incidents of the Melbourne land-
boom : In the early stages of that howling delirium a
property on the Yarra bank was sold to a speculator for
£12,000. He sold it to another speculator for £50,000
£26,000 cash and £24,000 on mortgage. This individual
sold it to a company for £60,000, and apparently the
solicitor who effected the transfer never noticed the little
matter of the £24,000 mortgage. The company passed it
on to a syndicate for £70,000, and again the solicitor
doesn’t appear to have noticed the mortgage. Then the
boom burst, and the syndicate was left to hold the infant.
At this stage the original boomer called round with his
mortgage, and, as the whole affair by this time wasn’t
worth the £24,000 liability, the syndicate gave him back
his property in satisfaction of all claims, and is now just
£70,000 out.
• • *
The security for one overdrawn account in the
Australian Banking 00. was a patent for a beer-engine !
• * *
One of the morals dedueiblefrom the Australian
Banking Co. prosecution is that no defendant who stands
any chance of being committed for trial should disclose
his defence at the lower court.
* # *
Matthew Davies, when at the height of his glory,
was boss director of 34 companies. Tub Bulletin hereby
suggests that Matthew should be found guilty of incurable
lunacy. The man who throws 34 eggs up in the air at
once, and hopes to catch them all safely as they come
down, is as much a madman as the man who tries to fall
out of 34 windows simultaneously and not break his neck.
* # •
Some better gold than usual has been struck in
the boomed, liquidated and re-formed Baker’s Creek
North mine, Hillgrove. It is so pegged out that, on the
surface, the Baker’s Creek reef passes through one corner
of the ground, and even that has been proved to be out-
side of the rich, gold-bearing shoot of stone worked in the
parent mine. This grand run of stone, however, dips
slowly but surely towards the property. Their main shaft
is so placed as to enable them to work at great depth, and
the pumping plant is one of the finest in N.S. W. Some-
day, someone will put this shaft down another 200 or
300 feet, where perhaps the two reefs will be found to be
as rich as in the adjoining property, which has declared
over £150,000 dividends. Then the manager, who has
often been reviled for the extravagance of his work, will
be blessed because of its endurance and his foresight.
* # •
Seldom does a man who has had his mine
hot med for 10 times more than it is worth come forward
to correct t'. e sanguine newspaper. At last such a man
has been found. John Newton, than whom there is no
more plucky speculator in N.S.VV., deemed it expedient
that he should lone down the Evening News’ d(Bcription
of While Rock. Blissfully ignorant of or indifferent to
the ruinous history of that mine it predicls for the new
syndicate a small profit of 1J millions a year. It bases its
calculations on the old, well-remembered (by some people)
reports of Cox and Seaver and others, and says the present
pr< spectors are justified in the belief that they have in
White Rock “a second Broken Hill.” This is too much
for Newton, whose very name is then printed “New-
town.” He says the present syndicate has subscribed
money to provide the Metals Extraction Co.’s process,
and that if the ore and concentrates can be treated on
the ground at 255. a ton, the estimated cost, instead of
£B, the former cost When sent away, there is reason to
believe they can work it at a large profit. Here is the
nutshell-truth about the mine, which the writer con-
demm d in its infancy, and, as in many another instance,
was laughed at as a pessimist. Tens of thousands have
been spent on machinery on the recommendation of Howell,
who, we believe, had the order; te s of thousands have
been spent in other directions and all has been lost. It is
a net-work of small silver-bearing galena veins in a mass
of diorite rock which has to be removed bodily. The ore
so taken is worth from six to 10 oz. per ton. If the veins
enlarge or increase in silver the mine will pay. If not,
we doubt it. It is a mine which has probably ruined
more people than any other in N.S.W.
* * *
Of the True Blue, a Sunday paper, with be-
coming modesty, says: “For months past we have re-
commended the purchase of these shares ’’—and a fervent
hope is expressed that its readers took and benefited by
the advice. After waiting a reasonable time no legion of
grateful correspondents have rushed in to say they did,
and why not? Possibly because the same authority for
months past more urgently recommended the purchase of
Bonanza Consols at 10s. and 125., now absolutely worth-
less: Butchers’ Reefs at 65., and now ditto Sunny Corners, of
which 16,000 shares were recently sold at a farthing each ;
likewise, Mount Pooles, Pambulas, and many other stocks
which have since depreciated nearly a hundred per cent,
in value. As an unfortunate miningguesser this authority
wears the belt.
# * *
A Queensland manager, who has just returned
from the Murchison (W.A.), does not rave over the place.
Gold is found in concentrated patches because very little
alluvial has washed away. Where it is it is picked up
like putting peas in a pannikin. Though big and heavy
the patches are by no means numerous. The reefs, some-
times heavily charged with gold on the surface, become
poorer and often barren with depth ; but in an isolated
case or two he believes the gold will descend. The climate
is execrable, water mighty scarce, food and freight dear,
and all the other conditions of life cheerless. As ever—
the finding of a patch is blazoned abroad; a hundred
failures—silence 1
* * *
How often we are told, “No gold can be seen
in the stone, yet the pestle-and-mortar tests indicate that
it will yield an oz. to the ton.” Ninety-nine times out of
a hundred it is a lie, and the only exception is where the
stone is black as the lungs of midnight, or the miner who
cannot find the gold is blind. Things are different on
Bendigo. Referring to a new body of stone discovered in
the old Johnstone’s mine (whose fortnightly cakes head
the list) a local paper says: “ Although no gold was seen
in breaking the stone, a trial-crushing went 2dwts. to the
load.”
# » *
The reports issued by the peregrinating officers
of the N.S.W. mines department are sometimes humorous
but rarely instructive, generally encouraging but seldom
reliable, and never condemnatory; consequently, after
many disappointments, they in no way influence the
public. It is quite a common thing to see in one part of
a newspaper a glowing official reference to a mine, and in
another part an advt. that thousands of forfeited shares
in the same mine are to be auctioned for the non-payment
of a penny-call. It is time the department had a man
capable and strong-minded enough to let daylight into
many mines where money is being actually thrown away.
But the department doesn’t want strong men. It is
afraid of them.
* * *
The Orange correspondent, after his usual
eulogium on the Aladdin’s Lamp, whose seven weeks’
crushing was less than that of the previous month, men-
tions that the shares are quoted in London at £llss.
Verb. sap.'. Sell 1
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney, Nov. 2, 1892.
My Dear Moorabinda,—
Our brand-new Neptune Rear Admiral Nathaniel
Bowden-Sraith—is en route for Sydney in the “ Oceana,”
accompanied by Mrs. Bowden-Smith, and the three Miss
Bowden-Smiths, who will all take up the official cross
early in November. Judging by the absence of long, ducal
pedigree in the Admiral’s advance cables he ought to be
an unassuming satrap who probably would answer to
“Nat Smith” ; also he doesn’t seem to have any title,
and his wife is a plain “ missus,” and altogether (barring
the hyphen) the marine Smiths lack a very simple and
unpretentious family on paper. Quite a nice change,
isn’t it?
Sydney alleged musical folks are being invited (per
mysterious circular) to bring prominently before the
public a “most promising young contralto” who is
credited with possessing a “phenomenally beautiful voice,”
and who is “likely to become world-famous.” Miss
Galvin—the budding Australian Patey in question- cer-
tainly has the promise of a very soothing contralto, and
when she sang at one or two Sydney concerts last year her
crude vocal efforts were full of artistic promise. Miss
G. is still in her teens, and if her voice grows w'ith her
she will be well worth watching, as the sporting people say.
I hear that one of the high-priestesses of the Sydney
Woman’s Suffrage movement lately informed her fiancee
that after all she had made up her mind not to enter
double-harness, as she could not attend to him and to the
Sacred Cause of Womanhood Suffrage. From my stand-
point there is in this a big all-round moral.
Even the bold buccaneer is female now-a-days. A well-
dressed woman was captured as she was stylishly stepping
ashore, at Melbourne, off a P. and O. boat, the other day,
and, when searched, a quantity of valuable lace was dis-
covered rolled round her body, beneath all her apparel.
Her excuse was that all the “ lady ” passengers did St-
and now the ungallant collector of customs threatens to
have a “ general female overhaul,” (which is every bit as
shocking as it sounds) one of these days. But if “all the
ladies” do pad their most sacred persons with dutiable
goods, what dead-sea apples some of ’an must be to their
expectant husbands!
Floating smuggleresses bound for the port dominated
by this horrid man had better take warning and heave
their contraband feathers and laces over the side unless
they want to dance round in their sarks in the cold, bare
Custom-house while a lady attendant unwinds valuables
off them like cotton off a reel. And smuggling (which
everybody regards as a lark so long as it isn’t wholesale)
reminds me of how a clever man once got past Cerberus
with a bag-full of cigars. He waited until the tally-man
had dabbed chalk on most of them and then he leisurely
advanced and dumped the bag down at the official’s feet.
“It’s full of cigars,” he said calmly, but the man only
grinned the grin of unbelief, and the bag went away in
peace.
N.S.W. Horticultural Society seems to be the stormy
petrel of passing shows. Their display before last was
spoilt by rain, and the really lovely rose-festival in the
Town Hall, on Thursday, was shorn of half its social
importance by the same cause. Nevertheless, the
patronizing Scott party- who opened the show from the
stage, a much more dignified position than when the
speaker is on the common level and late comers wonder
where the voice is coming from—turned up. Lady
Charles Scott—a most amiable individual to be approached
for patronage, so they say—wore a dark-green gown with
a vest and hem of scarlet, black hat and feathers, and
was presented with a committee bouquet of pUces de
resistance. Her sisters wore burnt curry-colour and
black and pink, respectively. Sir Charles Precedence
Scott sported a blue-and-black tie, and more starch in his
style than in his collar, which was very limp, altho’ the
Admiral himself looked radiant—at the idea of his release
from the horrors of Sydney, I suppose. Of course
the rain gave pause to Spring dressing, and the only
stylish girl was in grey corduroy, with a white vest, and
topped by a big, black hat. That description doesn’t do
at all though, for the great point about it was its
Continental cut.
The Horticultural Society may speak of its last show as
the most artistic of the series if it likes. There wasn’t
much to cavil at, even in the first prize-table, spite of the
little doll baskets of flowers set about on it, giving the
impression that the service ought to be a doll’s dinner-set
to have things en suite— but, la! judging dinner decora -
tions by daylight is as ineffectual as trying on a ball-dress
in the morning. The floral display in the shape of a huge
tent-shaped bed, made of potted flowers and ornamental
leaves, was elegant, but with too much ornamental ver-
dure and not enough flowers, to my way of thinking. A
big umbrella, built of blossoms, was novel and Chinese-y,
like the small but toothsome-looking display of callot,
turnips, you like ’em lettucee? and so on.
In the bouquet section you grasped the fact that small
nosegays covered with adiantium fern (by the way, when
you are buying flowers for your best Tottie, beware of the
fern-covered bunch. The delicate greenery is as much a
veil for stale flowers as lace is a screen for soiled silk) are
ruling what’s left of the season. Some had streamers
with flowers gummed down on them—but why were they
nearly all white? The manipulator of garden-stuff who
hasn’t enough bump of colour to submit a parti-coloured
effort for judgment would be liable to find her sphere of
artistic usefulness narrowed down to brides, debutantes,
and—ugh!—coffins.
Roses are the most gush-compelling flowers that
“ blowses ” (the subject is worthy a robust rhyme). You
can’t help turning watery and poetical in their multi-
coloured presence, and when it comes to criticising^them
you are merely an audible idolatress in the majority of
instances. But sometimes, even in the garden, Art steps
in and makes Nature look like-a burlesque actress in the
morning, say-1 mean the trick of sticking pale roses
into vessels of red ink to give them a novel colouring.
The modus is simple: you put a cut-rose in the ink for
three hours or so and the result is a sickly red-currant-
jam-coloured stain, smeared unevenly about the petals.
Charming, is it not? I expect they plunge dark roses in
black ink to work up the coaly effect. But from all these
artificialities one at least deduces an excuse for her who
paints her face. If a rose wants tinting surely a woman
does 1
Mi'. Lonnen’s bumper benefit matinee, at Her Majesty 3
last week, showed the skittle-headed cornique as the
universal favourite who will say a few words, ladies and
gentlemen. And the few words proved that Mr. Teddy
Lonnen isn’t verbally jocular. His pointless gratitude,
delivered in a charnel-house voice, made you think that
Mr. Lonnen is the funny man you read about who always
has a corpse at home and puts in his time ’tween jokes by
reading graveyard chronicles. The melange introduced
into the benefitjwasn’t particularly funny, either. Marion
Hood made hay of “Dear Heart,”.but looked very sweet
in a yellow and cream tea-gown with a big cluster of red
roses on her bosom. But the belle was little Saqui (what
long, colt-ish legs the child’s got—more than three-
quarters of her body! Her cultivated kick ought to be a
new sensation for the stalls, anyhow) who ran away with
all the flow'ers for her skipping-rope dance. Which
reminds me that though roses have been sixpence a dozen
in Sydney flower-shops the Gaiety girls haven’t had to
hire wheelbarrows to cart their floral tributes up to the
“ ’otel ” at any time during the past season.
The feature of the audience at the matinee was a box-
party including Viscount “ Villars ” (by the way, mamma
whispered to somebody, the other day, that he was “ very
good, but rather too fond of the Gaiety company ”) who
was being desperately flirted with by a society belle,
“Can’t they leave even that boy alone?” groaned an
envious d.c. girl, all whalebone and pearl-powder, who
wouldn’t shilly-shally with a Viscount for worlds, of
course.
Now that the Gaiety ladies (as Nellie Barren so
decorously termed ’em) have put their wardrobes in their
purses and gone away, I want to audibly wonder whether
the management originally engaged most of the girls for
a porridge-eating contest and then altered them into
burlesquers. Talk about the lady in the comic song with
a “ mouth like a crack in a pie ” ! Alice Leamar’s smile
used to flow round about her ears and lose itself in her
back hair. Miss Conyers’ rosebud mouth opened and
shut like a Saratoga trunk, and Soldene’s old-established
labial gap was nowhere beside the smile of the giantess on
the o.p. side. By the way, they evidently consider the
giantess a trump-card in Australia, for this is her second
visit, though she isn’t a bit popular with the d.c. women,
who murmur, “perfectly dreadful,” and things like that,
Such a display of colossal symmetry necessarily offended
the eye of the aniemic woman with hips like Indian clubs.
Talking about symmetry (but this item must be read
sotto-voce ), two Johnnies, just behind me at the matinfse,
were discussing the figure of a beautiful exponent of
tights, “ Nonsense 1 it’s half sawdust, old chap,” said
No. 1. “ ’Pon ’onor, no 1 you can take my word for it,”
retorted the other so earnestly.
Sydney University Dramatic Society got loose among
the grease-paint again last Thursday at the Standard
Theatre, when they played a diverting classic as usual—
this time Congreve’s “ Love for Love.” It is the society’s
best effort up to date. The period costumes, the wigs all
the right size, the excellent makes-up and audible elocu-
tion ail went to make a mise-en-action that must have
been balm to the soul of Mr. Charles Burford, the
society’s preceptor. Pretty Miss Inez Bensusan, as
Angelica, looked fit to frame, in a pink satin skirt with
bodice and paniers of white muslin flowered in pink ; wide
straw hat trimmed with feathers and a bunch of roses in
front, and a white wand with a cluster of roses a la Tosca;
and Mr. Kelynaok’s cream and brown velvet brocade coat
with cream satin facings and gold braid was a gorgeous
article. This gentleman’s Scandal was so good that he
really might have been a supercilious pro. who got in to
show the amateurs up.
Acting so much together is making quite a compact
little companv of the U.D.S.. Miss Elsie Page, as Prue
(got up a la Pattie 8., in the “ Country Girl ”), and pretty
Mr. Pickburn, as the beau Tattle, in pink and satin,
worked up the amusing love-scene in the second act for
all it was worth. But, of course, there were rifts—the
very best amateurs can’t altogether shake off the ban.
For instance, when somebody “heard a coach stop,” and
a sound rose on the breeze as of a billet of wood bumping
down stairs, and when Sir Samuel’s embonpoint began to
melt from under his waistcoat on to the stage—well, then
it wasn’t the comedy that you laughed at.
There was a large and full-dress audience, including a
desperately pretty girl with real golden hair, and wearing
a long yellow opera-cloak which gave her the appearance
of an embodied sunbeam. And another pretty girl wore
a gauze, pale-pink frock, with just one romantic rose-bud
in her raven hair.
The connected story of the “Silver King,” at Her
Majesty’s, on Saturday, came like light in darkness after
so much monotonous “variety,” and it was soothing to
see a really persecuted heroine, and to know there was
no danger of her winking the other kohl-washed eye and
breaking off in a clog-dance with the villain who pursued
her. Miss Henrietta Watson’s frooking indicated that
“Nellie Denver” was a woman of considerable taste in
dress when the bailiffs gave her a chance. In the first
act or scene (there were so many stage-shifts that the list
of ’em looked like verses of poetry on the bill) Miss
Watson wore a dove-grey cashmere, with Empire belt of
grey velvet; grey cloak, a wide, artistic black hat. Her
next gown was a robe of mustard-coloured superfine cash-
mere, with full front of silk caught across high on the
bust, with a yellow bow—from which she suddenly
relapsed into the rags inseparable from stage virtue, but
reappeared in a slim-fit Princess dress of black velvet,
with a point-lace collar to set off her.shapely throat. In
the small part of Olive Skinner, Miss Watts - Phillips
wore two bright and lively garbings—a pink silk dinner-
dress draped in pearl-beaded net, and a tea-gown of
golden-green plush with front of silk to match.
The d.c. was a sea of heads for the return of the Rignold
company, and there was no offence to be taken at the
dressing, except in the case of a lady in a pale-blue
decolette “Baby” bodice, cut a size too big round the
shoulders ; she evidently hadn’t the faintest idea of the
vista she presented to the elevated back seats, or else she
would surely have taken in a reef at the critical juncture.
In the manager’s box, Mrs. George Rignold, looking
bright and well, wore a dinner gown of soft grey armure,
edged with grey ostrich feathers, and parting over a full
front of buttercup silk; Miss Bessie Rignold (Mrs. Guyton
Heath) was in a simple white tulle dress with a pink rose ;
Miss Kate Bishop (who has blossomed forth as a teacher
of elocution, by the way) in a pink silk Empire gown.
But the feature of the dress-circle was the pretty
the so-long-regarded-as- a - hopeless -bachelor - despite-the-
eyeglass-M.P. She wore her bri-hi-dal robes (as the ballad
singer calls them), and, of course, hubby was alongside.
I am sorry I missed the opening (by Lord Jersey) of
Sydney Architectural Association’s Arts and Crafts Exhi-
bition, last week. Because if the people present were
undressed anything like the pictured people swarming up
the artistic invitation-card, I have missed a novel and
engaging spectacle. Besides "arts and crafts” sounds
like the sort of show to interest a woman.
I am assured that the Fisheries Fair, to be held at
Manly on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday of
next week, will be an entirely novel and most attractive
exhibition! The fishwives of Norway, Newhaven, Bou-
louo-ne Brittany, Normandy, Naples, and Cattaro will
self their wares from their boats. The Maypole children
will be dressed as Gondolieri and Oontadini, and the
Waxworks in the costumes of all nations and generations.
A gipsy tent, a fish-boat, a picture-gallery, a competitive
beauty-show of all the dolls, competitive table decorations
of garden-flowers on the first two days, and of wild
flowers on the last two days, and a wonder-working
magician on Prince of Wales’ Birthday will enhance the
attractions of the Fair.
Yours affectionately,
SAPPHO SMITH.


When your nerves are bad or you want bracing
up take Woi.i'k's Schnapps.
D KM ELIAS
DIGESTIVE
M EAL
For Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
WOLKK’S SCHNAPPS.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Melbourne Evening Standard is shrink
ing in size.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.—Pure. Palatable, Perfect.
“There are 40,000 drunkards in Australia,”’
says Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat (Vic.).
Wolfes Schnapps —Soothing and invigorating
No fewer than eight Bourke-street (Melb.)
public-houses have bailiffs in just at present.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
1 he Age says that poisoner Neill heard his
sentence passed “ without an outward sign of
emotion. ”
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love’
and cooling as his fan.
( Parkes arrived in Sydney the same day
Gladstone married. He married about the same
day Gladstone oetogenated.
t or debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe's Schnapps
Mary Glee, a widow, was fined in Mel-
bourne the other day for assaulting a rent-
collector. He got the widow’s smite.
Wolfes Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations-
London has 16,000 families, consisting of
70,000 non-producers, with an income per family
of <£sooo per year, or £80,000,000 all told.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is
the best mvigorator out.
< hie Sydney paper, in advertising its
coining week a contents, enumerates several
articles pirated wholly from English publications.
“ ELECTRICITY IQ LIFE.”
PULVEMAOHBR’S
WORLD-
FAMED
ELECTRIC BELTS
Hi *vo received Testimonials from THREE PHYSICIANS to HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN, the ACADEMIE DE MEDECINE. of Paris and the following
ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON ; ’ the followmg men >ber 8 of the
Dr. C. HANDFIEI.D JONES, St. Mary’s Hospital
Dr. 001.DING BIRD, Guy s Hospital '
Dr. JONATHAN I’EUEMIA, London Hospital
Dr. T. W. NUNN. Middlesex Hospital
Dr. U. M. LAUKENCE, Great Northern Hospital
Dr. J. R. REYNOLDS, University Hospital
Dr. R. QUAIN, Brompton Hospital
Dr. H. ALL BUTT, Leeds Hospital
Dr. JAMES WILSON, Worcester Infirmary
«' r mS LOCOCK, Physician (o Her Majesty
«■'. nl'Mnv 1 , ' flliG ®0 N ’ Physician to Her Majesty
Sir HtNHY HOLLAND, Physician to Her Majesty
Sir h. H. LIKVEKINO, Physician to H.il.H. the Prince of Wales
Arul numberless other Medical Men,
Pamphlets, Price Lists, full particulars and advice given with pleasure on application to
f
Personal Items.
ft- S. Smythe, the “Much-Travelled,”
was once sub-editor of S.A. Advertiser.
Rumoured that the octogenarian poet
Hallorau s baby is to be called Anacreon.
A late editor of the Wak Cry has died of
too much whisky. It was excusable under the
circumstances.
Chief Justice Way, of S.A., has been
Acting-Governor fifteen times, his terms of office
aggregating 21| months.
Chief Justice Higinbotham and B. C.
“rt, w *‘ l ' e once colleagues on the reporting
start of the Morning Chronicle.
An English paper alleges that the plate
which was used at Wales’ wedding-breakfast away
oack in 1863 remains unpaid for to this day.
Sydney D.T. heads an article relating to
some thievish lawyers “ Irregular Attorneys.” A
misprint, we presume, for “Regular Attorneys.”
the daughter just presented to the German
Emperor by his wife is the first girl born in the
German Imperial family for the last 84 years.
Omen ?
Whenever ex-Minister Dan. O’Connor
visits a N.S. W. State school he makes a speech
commencing with, “My pretty little boys and
gurruls.”
Carlyle’s opinion of Sir George Grey ;
“He is built four square, solid, as one fitted to
strongly meet the winds of Heaven and the waves
of fate. ”
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) and his Pome-
ranian pup (a vice-regal present) are now so
inseparable that the canine sits alongside him on
the bench.
Mrs. (President) Harrison (U.S.A.), is
d ad. “ Office killed her. She was a kind, well-
me ming woman, who ran the White House on
teetotal principles.
R°pkins, the new member for Geelong
(V ic.), is seventy odd years of age, and recently
married a blushing* damsel of 23. Ho is very
wealthy, of course.
Chief Justice Ldley (Q.) was once, for a
short time, editor and part-proprietor (partner
with W. C. Bel bridge, who died the other day) of
B isbane Courier,
Lord Augustus Loftus’s Memoirs are out,
the first instalment of them—and well received,
ihe two volumes yet to come are those which
specially concern the beastly kawlinies.
Asks a correspondent : “ Was anv one of
the Judges who tried the recent big Queensland
appeal-case related to the present holder of any of
the dummied Darling Downs properties?”
The late Sir John Macdonald, Premier of
Canada, was an out-and-out local-optionist; also
a spasmodic drunkard, who had his “bender”
more or less regularly at periodic intervals.
“ Tom Collins ” is said to have been intro-
duced to these, shores by Thorne, the American
actor. Jos. Pickersgill used to keep a similar
spscial myth of his own, by name Murgatroyd.
Why doesn’t Parson Laseron join his
shooter, Thomas Walker, in the total abstinence
lecturing business ! If anybody in Sydney knows
all about the horrors of drink Rev. Laseron is the
man.
William Gray, the S.A. millionaire, col-
lects all his Adelaide rents personally. Gray does
Rundle-street block in a rieketty spring cart and
attired in a suit far from new. He is reputedly
worth <£1,500,000.
Pastor Grubb doesn’t tell the following
experience he had with prayer in Australia. He
met an unbeliever in a railway-carriage, who
placed a pin on the floor and offered Grubb £lOOO
to shift it by prayer.
Gladstone appears to be breaking down
in health at last. “He will not attend the
Commons every night;’’and when he is absent
Sir William Harcourt (who is becoming blind)
will lead the House.
Pilcher, Q.C. (N.S.W.), x-equired so heavy
a fee to defend banker Abigail a second time that
defendant s friends declined. While the courts
are in full swing, a counsel of Pilcherian standing
does not care for criminal work at all.
In the Robb v. Crown arbitration case
now being heard at Brisbane, a witness for the
defence (J. Overend, of Overend and Co.) said a
larger amount of work had been done than lie ever
anticipated in his most sanguinary moments.
Witness : “ The brewery-cellar was like a
snow storm; the froth was all over the place.”
Justice Lines ; “I should have thought it was
like an ale-storm. Lord ! how the junior bar did
scream ! But did the Judge’s wit ever soar above
a pun ?
There is but one member of the late S.A.
(Holder) Cabinet who tarns more than half his
ministerial salary of £lOOO a year now that he is
out of office. The new crowd, except Cropley and
Grayson, aie in receipt of large incomes outside of
politics.
When Sir George Grey was Governor of
Maorilaud for the sec-nd time he quarrelled so
much with his Ministers that for mouths he and
they held no communicatu n of any kind except
through writing—a period known as the Memo-
randumiad.
/ox, M. L.A. (Vic.), still preserves in his
safe the identical 10s. 4d. once subscribed in pence
by bis brother politicians for him to buy a new
white waistcoat with. He keeps the original
coins as a memento of the fact that he had to
spend 32-c 0 1. in “shouting for” the subscribers.
Henry Matthews, Q.C., once an Irish
Nationalist and a Liberal, lately Home Secretary
in the Salisbury Govt., has just spent a couple of
evenings behind the Speaker’s chair in N.S.VV.
Assembly. He is a hungry-looking gentleman
with a greedy chin, and a mouth that closes like a
rat-trap.
it is said that Barrister Field lately waited
upon George Hill, the owner of Marvel and
of Sydney Criterion Theatre, with a view to in-
ducing him to attend an open-air gospel meeting
and sing a hymn. George is alleged to have
declined the invitation in firm but picturesque
language.
Since Chief Justice Lilley ascended the
Bench he has had associated with him a succes-
fl on of dying Judges or Judges begging sick-leave.
Iwo died within two years of his appointment.
His Honor has had only one year’s leave, and the
greater part of the legal work of the province has
fallen upon his shoulders.
Father Curran, the geologist, tells of a
N.fe.W. Mayor who once complimented his rever-
ence on his lectures, “ I’m really pleased to see
so many present,” said Curran. “ Oh, yes, your
leverence, they’re a splendid lot of fellows about
an( l they haven’t much to amuse them.
I key'd go to anything.”
It is a rule amongst knowing Brisbane
(Q.) solicitors, when they make applications in
Chambers before an otherwise severe Queensland
>1 udge, to appear in a black frock-coat—long,
even unto the zenith of either calf. His Honor’s
particular weakness amounts almost to a reverence
for this sort of black garment.
Mr. and Mrs. Tennyson Cole cut a dash
in Melbourne, a few months ago. Now the
I oorakian eye is fixed on their maintenance pro-
ceedings in Auckland, because Snazelle gets into
the box and says the Mrs. Tennyson Cole of Mel-
bourne is not the Mrs. Tennyson Cole of Auck-
land. Which reminds one of operatic-manager
Quaggley. Miss Particular wanted the Much-
travelled, or somebody, to introduce her to
Madame Q., but the somebody replied that
Madame Q. had mysteriously developed since she
was in Java.
Parkes once said that
he’d give £ 100 for a good
speech on “the Press.”
Lady Clarke is “the
liberal Australian
woman ” who presented
the peal of bells to the
Imperial Institute.
Wasted liberality ! Isn’t
brother Joe winning fame
enough for the family ?
The wily Fitchett
has a knack of his own
for getting jam for his
Review of Reviews out
of Australian notabili-
ties. The idea seems
to be that every pro-
minent man who sends
along half a “stick” of
“ taffy ” about the Re-
view gets his portrait
into the magazine.
James Service raved
against the burglars in
the Vic, Upper House,
and clamoured for
stronger repressive
measures; the cracksman
instantly responded by
breaking into his private
house. James gets no
sympathy. The Mel-
bourne public almost re-
spects a straightforward
burglar nowadays.
Henry Edward Brookes, superintendent
of Adelaide cemetery, received his first ap-
pointment in the S.A. Civil Service on 21st July,
1840—less than four years after the province was
founded. In the necropolis of which he has charge
lie buried the only child of Sir George Grey and
the first wife of George Coppin.
Balfour, M.L.C. (Vic.), feverishly contra-
dicts in the Aegus a report that he said nasty
things about the press and pressmen at a recent
ceremony. Jamie, the very personification of
conventional piety, is a little in the soup with the
other boomers, and he wouldn’t hurt the feelings
of the press just now for the world.
Sheridan, the twenty years’ confinee of
Darlinghurst, and “father” of the institution,
will, The Bulletin learns, be released this month.
The Wesleyan chaplain is in a quandary, for no
other member of his congregation can play the
harmonium. Colonel Brown, the cheque-artist,
succeeds S. as “ resident schoolmaster.”
When Alfred Tennyson, appropriately
gowned and hooded, went up in his turn to be
invested by the chancellor with the honorary
LL.D. degree at Cambridge, his unkempt, flowing
locks provoked a gallery-wit to inquire, “Did
they wake and call you early ?” The grave face
of the laureate instantly lit up with a smile.
George Vesey Allen is to be “ Distributor
of Literature ” fqr N.S. W. Government at Chicago
Exhibition ; J 1350 a year, and all expenses, for
sticking up on a book-booth a placard saying—
“ Please take one!” Why not drill a slot in
Executive Commissioner Ren wick, and let the
Yanks put in nickels and draw out literature ?
Sir Redmond Barry once wrote to Judge
Wrixon, father of the present leader of the Vic-
torian Opposition, asking him how he was usually
addressed officially. The reply was—“ I am
variously styhd ‘your Honor,’ ‘your Worship,’
and ‘your Lordship.’ I expect soon to be called
‘your Reverence.’ When I am, I will let you
know.”
When Governor of Victoria, Sir Henry
Loch one day had an altercation with Skinner,
the caterer, about a Government House dinner.
Sir Henry lost his temper, and asked the caterer
whether he expected him to go down on his knees
to him. “No,” said the independent Skinner,
‘I don’t ; but I expect you to talk like a man,
and not like a maniac.”
“ Steele Grey ” owns a copy of Henry
Kendall’s “ Leaves from Australian Forests” (the
green-covered first issue), with the following auto-
graph on the fly-leaf:—“To Walter Montgomery,
Lsqre., in remembrance of his great kindness to
an utter stranger. Henry Kendall, 1809. ’ It
was picked up for sixpence among a lot of old
books in a Melbourne pawnshop.
“Toby” Barton, Q. 0., once got 150
guineas for going to Coonamble (N.S.W.) in
defence of a “respectable” sheep-stealer. Toby
asked defendant to tell him “ honestly ” whether
he was guilty or not. Of course, he said he wasn’t,
but the case was proved right up to the hilt, and
j-he thief got five years. “He ought to have got
j.en,” said Toby, “for deceiving me."
Opponents of Home Rule for Ireland
should look to Maoriland for a lesson. Premier
Ballance is a Protestant North of Ireland man,
while Sir Patrick Buckley, one of his colleagues,
is a Roman Catholic, who at the time when the
Papal States were attacked by the Italians under
Lamoriciere, served in the Irish Brigade. And
these two men work together most harmoniously.
H. J. M‘Cooey, the N.S.W. naturalist,
was, the other day, “ bitten several times by a
red-bellied black snake, which he was forcing
into a bottle. He merely applied a ligature,
washed his hand in salt water, with carbolic soap,
an d’’—nothing particular happened, though the
snake in question is reckoned one of the most
poisonous. But it may have been only an
imaginary snake.
Parkes, as “Friend of the People,” makes
all possible political capital out of the auti-com-
pensation-to-publicans agitation, and says that
even at a personal sacrifice he would rejoice in
seeing liquor banished from the land. Mean-
while, the old man on occasion stows beneath his
BETTER STILL.
1ST. BOY : “Say, Freddy. What yer think? One of my mother’s
hens laid a double-yoked egg yesterday.”
FREDDY : “Oh! that’s nothing! My sister laid a foundation-stone
last week.”
belt a couple of big bottles of champagne, right
off, without turning a single-hair. “Gimme fizz
in my time, 0 Lord 1”
The awkward position of Want, Q C., in
having so fervently defended the Broken Hill
strikers for a fee after violently denouncing them
in Parliament for nothing, recalls, in a circuitous
way, a French story we once read of a certain
great advocate, who, leaving his chambers, which
abutted on the Court, saw two or three pavement-
women huddled together at the court door. “Go
away! said he, “you have no business here.”
“ True,” said one of them, taking off her bonnet,
unfortunately, sir, I am but a wigless prosti-
tute.”
Queensland’s only General may be a good
warrior, but he doesn’t shine as Comptroller of
the commissariat. Recently, he made a tour of
inspection out West, and, ere starting, requested
his landlady to kill and pluck a pair of ducks, to
be packed in his hamper. Noon on the following
day found him in the railway carriage, many miles
from Brisbane, and vow hungry. “1 propose we
have some lunch,” I the Ulundi hero to his
adjutant. Carried unanimously,” said the sub.,
proceeding to unpack the hamper. Soon the
ducks were revealed. “ Bless my soul,” said the
General, “I forgot that they ought to have been
cooked. ’ ’
Dear Bulletin,—lt is unlikely Griffi'h
will take the Queensland Chief Justiceship.
At present he has other fish to fry—more
vengeance to wreak on the people. ' If he
does not take it, that poor, miserable crea-
ture, Harding, who is senior judge l , will pro-
bably get it. 1 hen either Power, Mansfield, or
ex-parson Rutledge will ascend the Bench. Ihe
latter represents Charters Towers, and has not
dared to visit that mining constituency for neatly
three years, perhaps from fear of a breach of the
peace. Rutledge’s appointment would be another
insult to the Queensland democracy.—Yours, &0.,
Bananalandeu.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Latest novelties ami styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, =£3 3s. Bra ham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Richard Jones, one of the first members
for Moreton Bay(Q.), was a phlegmatic politician,
When the result of the poll was declared, Jones,
always an early bird, had retired to rest. From
it he was rudely disturbed by his enthusiastic sup.
porters, who, gathered before the house, clamoured
loudly for an interview. The newly-elected came
forth, pyjama-olad, and thus addressed the crowd;
“Gentlemen, I am very much obliged to you,
indeed, and I wish you all to Jericho.” ’
Colonel M‘Doiwiell, of the Maoriland
Colonial forces, was the beau ideal of a guerilla
soldier. After being the hero of a hundred fights,
on one occasion when visiting Wellington (M.L.)
he reported himself to Col. Haultain, Defence
Minister, an old Queen’s officer who had seen no
active service. Fighting with the Maoris was
then going on, north of W anganui, and M‘Donnell
who had command at the front, was fired on
within the whites’ lines, by the Maoris. Mention-
ing this to Haultain, that martinet sneered : “ Are
you quite sure it wasn’t blank cartridge, Colonel?”
M'Donnell drew himself up, looked his chief full
in the face and replied: “Can’t say, sir. Never
was under blank-cartridge fire in my life.”
One of the papers says that the N.S W
public would like to see Mr. G. B. Simpson
Q. 0., appointed to the Supreme Court bench,
llie taxpayers want no such thing. Mr. G. B.
Simpson—for whom we have the greatest respect
as a man and as a lawyer—is understood to be by
no means in robust health, and is now at the age
when a man might reasonably be retiring from
instead of accepting, a Judgeship. This country
needs young (though experienced), able and
vigorous men on the bench of the Supreme
tribunal, not worn-out men, or weaklings of the-
Fosterian order. Supposing Mr. Simpson were,
appointed and had to retire through ill-health
within three months, or, for the matter of that,
within three hours, he would be legally entitled to
his full Judge’s pension of ,21800 a year.
The just-converted N.S. Wales M.P.
Tom Walker (on drink): “I am fresh from the
camps of the monster, and I can tell of the horrors
with all the more effect.” It’s risky to boast
prematurely. A sermon ;
At one of the aristocratic functions
which he attended in London, Sir George
Dibbs met a vivacious young lady, who started
to ‘ draw him out.” After garnering Dibbs’s
opinions upon electrical executions, the intellectual
angel probed him on religious topics, and soon dis-
covered that the Dibbs’ theology was broad and
free and shockingly unorthodox. With the
privilege permitted to youth and beauty, she next
sought his views on such heathen philosophies as
the transmigration of souls, a succession of human
lives for the same ego, esoteric Buddhism and the
ultimate Nirvana. “I'm afraid,” said Dibbs,
you re taking me a bit out of my depth;
now, there’s a gentleman over there who should
be able to instruct you on all such matters much
better than I can.” And he pointed sinfully to
the Archbishop of Canterbury. “Why, that’s
my father ! ” said the young lady.
The Review of Reviews has a long article
about Sydney Daily Telegkaph— a notice bear-
ing internal evidence of having been, like a dis-
guised advt., “ written in the office.” With the
puff is printed a portrait of Mr. J. Randall Carey,
the chairman of directors,’’ a glorified specula-
tive tradesman, known best to the public as chair-
man of a tram syndicate; but not a single word is
said about fom Courtney, whose pen, perhaps,
has done more than anybody else’s to make the
D.T. readable, and to lift its columns out of the
stereotyped ruts of dreary statistics and weary
news-records. Courtney’s political commen-
taries, under the title 44 Notes in Parliament,”
were unique and powerful. They sparkled
with the opalescent glow of familiar personal,
knowledge, and the merest playful badinage was
as the rubbing of salt into secret wounds. Court-
ney was the Asmodeus of the gallery.
Don t, Tommy, don’t; just wait till thirst
Impels you to another burst.
No doubt just now you’re serious.
Expect the world with you to fuss ;
But, Tommy dear, I rather guess
The world don’t miss one drinker less.
’Twere belter you went softly ! Hush
Your boasts until you’ve licked the lush.
We cannot all shoot parsons, Tom,
And yet a rattling start therefrom ;
Yet hide, till sure you are averse
To what you now proclaim “ a curse ; ”
Or wicked men will surely joke
When you feel sorry that you spoke.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.


THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the Sydney Arcade, George and King
streets. He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &0., from ,V 5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address-Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, Sydney Arcade, George and
King streets.*
Use Baxho’s Baking Powder.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to mea-ane on
shortest notice, 3s. I’haiiam and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
PRM ELL'S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Rickards ad., p. 1.
GN UN Darlings. GN U N Darlings.
Darlings.
Messrs. Ooleumno and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, ami all affections of the Chest and
laim's. Tor Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. fevers of all
kinds' Coughs. Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
hv its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Svdnev and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Ercalyptc Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
■>reat price, Tor external use try Colkmanf. and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
At Darlinghurst you can buy GNUN
Darlings.
For removing dandruff, Ayer’s Hair Vigor ha 9
no equal. It restores faded and gray hair to its
original colour, stimulates the growth of the hair,
and gives it a beautiful, glossy and silken appear-
ance.
PE M ELL’S
WHEAT
M EAL.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Gladstone Liberals smoke nothing but G N U N
Darlings.
Deeming’s last words: “Let me
GNUN Darling.”
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds,
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
smoke
made
fd
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract fit
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
m
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, Ac.
22 A 2J Clnmiri'-sirerl,
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
M‘llwraith will contest Bundaberg at the
Queensland general election. He may be opposed
by Labour-leader Glassey.
“ It is no part of the duties of a Govern-
ment to find work for the unemployed.” — Dibhs-
Barton-Lyric <1 Co. (N.S.W.).
Rev. F. B. Boyce (Sydney) declares that
compensation to N.S.W. publicans on Victorian
lines would mean a sum of £3,500,000.
“ I recognise that it is one of the first
duties of a Government to find work for their
people.”— Premia' Ballance (Maori!and).
John Davies asserts (and who should know
better?) that the N.S.W. Upper House will throw
out the Electoral Bill without ceremony.
In March next the Queensland general
elections will most likely take place, when, pro-
bably, politics will lie Charley Lilley’s liver-tonic.
John Davies, M L.C., “strongly disap-
proves’’of past wasteful expenditure in N.S.W.
public works !” Beelzebub ! This surely can tbe
John Hornsby Davies !
Parkes opposes the Referendum —says
that the Swiss apple will not graft on the British
oak. Perhaps not—-but we haven’t yet tried it
on the Australian gum-tree.
“ What are liberal measures ?” asked
National Defence League Johnson fiercely during
a debate in S.A. Assembly. “ Anything which
you qgpose,” was the reply.
The publication of Magistrate Johnson’s
last official telegram by N.S. Wales Ministry was
a blunder of criminal stupendousness. Their last
claim to impartiality has vanished.
How sweetly Premier Dibbs speaks of
M‘Millan, how nice M‘Millan is to and
how politely Barton refers to Bruce Smith ? The
two streams converging into confluence of coali-
tion?
On one Tweed River (N.S.W.) sugar-plan-
tation, it has been elicited by John Haynes, there
are 120 Kanakas employed. On several neigh-
bouring plantations there are another hundred
Polynesians.
Ex-Chief Secretary Cockburn states that
at the time of the row over the alleged discourtesy
to the N.S.W, police he offered to resign his seat
in the S.A. Ministry, but ex-Premier Holder
declined to assent.
One gratifying fact of the Broken Hill
trial was the obviously democratic trend of the
reporters’ evidence. The average reporter’s
opinions are democratic, but he has to sell his soul
for bread and butter.
Cabled that Germany has, during the last
20 years, expended £575,000,000 on its national
defences. Meanwhile three successive emperors
have made innumerable remarks on the blessings
of Peace, with a large P.
Mi’s. Rose Summerfield, lecturess and
organiser for the N.S.W. Women Workers’ Union,
has assisted to form a Socialist League at Bourke,
and thereby incited the local bogus labour-organ
to call her a “ she-anarchist.”
Years ago, Graham Berry unsuccessfully
tried to persuade Victoria to adopt his Reform
Bill and plebiscite. Now, as he privately points
out, under an elective Upper House system, all
the democratic power is gone.
Murray, M.L.A., asked Victorian Par-
liament, during a recent sitting, to put a half-
guinea duty on silk hats. The House rose at him
in horror. Such a duty would be tantamount to a
poll-tax on M.’sP. and “ sich.”
The Bulletin is informed that one
N.S.W. Minister has just appointed his brother to
an inspectorship of agriculture, while another
Minister has appointed his brother to an inspec-
torship of conditional purchases.
S.A. Register on an absentee income-tax:
The tendency of the impest would be to keep money
out of the colony, and possibly, in some cases, to drive
the owners of the money after it.
Lovely idea ! —driving away an absentee !
A few weeks ago, The Bulletin said it
was a pity all the honest Australian politicians
were fools. Now, Donald M.P. (N.S. Wales): —
“ I believe that the biggest rogues are the best
politicians, and that no man can remain long in
the House and still be honest.”
A Sydney Sunday paper lectures the
N.S.W. Trades and Labour Council for allowing
the. Eight-Hours’ Celebration proceedings to be
taken out of its hands. As a matter of simple
fact, the Eight Hours’ Celebration Committee was
in existence before the Council.
About the saddest man in Maoriland is an
old political hack named Kerr who. seeing his
name in the list of appointments to the Council,
telegraphed a prompt acceptance of the billet.
The Government broke it to him gently by wire
that it was another Kerr altogether.
Jawbone Neild, M.P., has discovered
amongst the new N.S.W. Jay pees a convicted
sly grog-seller, a trader under a fictitious name, a
smuggler, a man who had several times been tried
for cattle-stealing, a “ tote ’’-man, a man just a
year out of gaol, and a 12-months-stale corpse.
Queensland M.sP. were very anxious to
see the documents connected with Chief Justice
Lilley’s resignation, to satisfy themselves that
there was no loophole left for his change of mind,
and therefore no necessity to bring in the already-
drafted “ Bill to Extinguish Chief Justice Lilley.”
One clause in the Victorian Village Settle-
ments Bill gives the Government power to take
forcible possession of land when necessary. Mean-
ing, of course, that it can force the owner to take
only twice the value of the land when he is hanging-
out for three times as muon.
W. E. Abbott (N.S.W.) “would sooner
make an honest living and live a free man, by
catching’possums, than submit to the degrading
tyranny of a Labour Ministry.” With the
approaching advent to power of that party, Abbott
will be “up a tree” and ’possums will be quite
handy.
Queensland Legislative Council has re-
jected the Griffith Constitution Bill which pro-
posed to divide the province into two parts.
N.Q. reckons —and in doing so it relies on the un-
reliable statement of Griffith —that the British
Government will now endow it with territorial
separation.
In connection with the Cairns (Q.) Govt,
railway, contractor Robb, who tendered at
£290,984 35., has already been paid £880,405
12s. 7d., including items for interest and law-costs
(compromised). He now claims £262,31105. Bd.
more ! The excess is chiefly made out of “ land-
slips,” or “cutting to spoil.”
After the N.Q. Separation question is
settled will come the battle of the Capital.
The Griffith Dividing Bill made Townsville the
capital pm ton., which is an enormous advantage
at the start, but the supporters of the scheme to
erect a brand-new metropolis somewhere near
Herberton are whetting their tusks.
The West Queensland pastoralists are
going to pay the expenses of their representatives
at the coming general election. In one district at
least circulars have been sent out to all members
of the Association calling upon them to contribute
3s. per thousand sheep and 10s. per thousand
cattle and horses for an election-fund.
The Barrier (N.S.W.) Miner states that
when the Tarrawingee flux quarry employes
decided to strike, the manager addressed the men
and said that if they did so “they would be
blocked by every employer in Australia.” This
threat, if uttered, is the first open avowal of
a widespread conspiracy against Labour.
The ceremony
of swearing-in a
British Privy
Councillor is pecu-
liar. The candi-
date goes down no
both knees at a
distance of about
five paces from
the throne, and in
that attitude be
takes the oath.
Then, as be isn’t
allowed to rise
once during the
ceremony, he wob-
bles along on his
knees till he gets
near enough to
Victoria to kiss
her hand,andhav-
ing done that, be
, creeps back to his
original station.
If be is old, or
stiff, or rheumatic
he probably can’t
get along on his
knees, and in that
case he has to
travel on all-fours.
Sometimes he mis-
calculates the dis-
tance of the
Queen’s hand, and
then he naturally
pitches forward
and assumes the
attitude of a dog
waiting for a bis-
cuit. When the
performance is , , , ,
over, the Queen goes away and washes her hand
with Pears’ soap.
The parliamentary statement that North
Queensland cannot furnish a sufficient number of
capable representatives for its own Parliament, is
a libel. North Queensland’s difficulty lias hitherto
been that it could not always find men ready to
abandon their Northern businesses and go and
live in the South. Nathless, it ran 16 fairish
members out of 72.
Parkes to St. Leonards Labour Electoral
League : “After all, the poet is right, 1 hat which
.* is best administered is best.’ What is wanted in
1 a State is men, not dry forms of law or of
! administration.” This, of course, means Parkes
and the scratch-team which he “can pick up at
the first street corner,” and upon whom he can
practise “moral agriculture.”
The N.S.W. Labour-party should watch
carefully clause 42 of the “Parliamentary Elec-
tions Bill.” Read in conjunction with clause 47,
it means putting in the hands of the Pastoral
Association and National Ass. the power, to wipe
all nomadic voters—teamsters, shearers, drovers,
navvies, fencers, dam-sinkers and so on—on the
rolls without liope of re-instatement.
The Mundawaddera (Riverine) Farmers
Association has no confidence in N. S. Wales
Lands Minister Copeland because of his “ special
areas ” fad ; his advocacy of extending the terms
' of central-division leases for a further five years;
‘ his opposition to village settlements; and Ins
; general Shylock attitude against selectors and
partiality to squatters and big sheep-walks.
G. D.' Clark, M.P. (N.S.W.), takes excep-
tion to Minister Slattery attending as a paid
advocate to obtain licenses for would-be publicans.
But G. D. Clark himself (as a stipendiary teetotal
boss) is a paid advocate to prevent any man
obtaining a publican’s licence. The only differ-
ence is that Slattery earns his outside fees outside;
G. D. Clark mostly earns his outside fees inside
Parliament.
Queensland Parliament’s object in reduc-
ing its members’ salaries by one-half was to block
Labour candidates at next election. But the
Labour Federation proposes to supplement the
parliamentary “screws” out of a special fund to
be maintained by the workers. This should make
Labour stronger than ever; since a Labour-
member’s “full” screw would depend upon his
fidelity to Labour’s cause.
Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat, believes the
introduction of Bible-teachings into Victorian
State schools would lead to the exorcism or
gambling, drunkenness and sensuality. And yet
the British crime-census proves that even parsons
are prone to those three vices, the number of
clerical delinquents being proportionately large.
You can no more make men good by filling them
up witli raw Scripture, than you can make a goat
moral by feeding her on tracts.
The N.S. W. National Ass. claims that—
The three bye-elections which have been fought since
its inception have resulted in the return of good men, as
opposed to self-seeking agitators, and in the matter of the
electoral-rolls also, good work has been done, &c.
True! The Ass., recognising that the battle is
between the H.fves and the Have-nots, has fought
for the Haves, of whatever political colour. The
workmen, not recognising this, have wasted their
votes in faction fights, as usual.
Cabled that Chamberlain,' the adopted pet
of the British aristocracy, now advocates the
statutory abbreviation of the hours of those
engaged in laborious and dangerous occupations ;
the limitation of pauper immigration; shop early-
closing ; tribunals of compulsory arbitration ; pen-
sions for the outworn ; and good housing laws.
What are the newspaper Tories of Australia, that
have been denouncing such proposals as tyrannical
and socialistic, going to do now? More somer-
saults !
It leaks out that the N.S.W. Ministry
took every precaution for the dragooning of the
people during the late crisis. The guard-boat was
kept in readiness, night and day, to convey the
artillery from Middle Head, the Maxims, Gat-
lings, and Nordenfeldts were ready for transport
to the Barrier, and, on the night of the monster
Sydney meeting the infantry were under arms in
Victoria Barracks, and a tram kept waiting to
hurry them down for the protection of Parliament
House.
The Downer (S. A.)Government anticipates
having to provide for a deficiency of £210,000,
viz., £170,000 in railways and £40,000 Customs,
through the Barrier strike. To meet this,it
IN A SYDNEY PARK.
CHATTY OLD TRAVELLER : “If you had been to Russia, young man, you
would know the value of Liberty in a free country like this.”
YOUNG MAN: “Oh! I know—I’ve just paid forty bob for seven days.”
proposes increased income-tax, <£23,000 ; stock-tax,
.£15,000 ; succession duties, .£lO,OOO ; reduction in
Estimates, .£99,000; increased revenue through
harvest, £58,000; and there will have £37,000
balance from last year. The increased land-tax,
favoured by a majority of the electors, is quietly
ignored.
The alleged reason for Chief Justice
Lilley’s application for leave, prior to resigna-
tion, is ill-health, but he had been informed
roundabout way that if his resignation did not
come in promptly, an address to the Governor
would be moved in both Houses, praying his
removal. In the Upper, it would have passed
nem. con., and in the Lower by about 66 to 6.
The more rabid of the Griffilwraithians still want
to dismiss him. They say that in February he
will refuse to resign, and when the next House
meets, alas ! they themselves may not be there.
Henry Smith Fish, member for Dunedin
(M.L.), the man who had the pickles thrown at
him, addressing his constituents: “It is always
cheering for any man who has been away from the
comforts of his’home for four months out of the
year to be welcomed back, but it is still more
cheering for him to be able to return to it under
such circumstances as I have witnessed this
night.” The “circumstances ” which cheered Fish
so much were 800 people heaving rotten eggs at
him and yelling “ Turncokt ! ” and suggesting
that his liver should be torn out. It doesn’t take
much to cheer some people.
The Land Values Assessment Bill has been
carried by large majorities three times in S. A.
Assembly and yet has no chance of becoming
law. Nevertheless, here is Parkes asking
N.S. Wales to institute an elective Upper House
—in face of the foregoing fact and also of the
circumstance that the Ministry of Victoria, where
the Council is also elective, can’t induce a solitary
soul in the Upper House to present, on their
behalf, to his fellow-members, a democratic
measure passed by the people’s chamber. The
English system of Parliamentary Government is
a fraud and is doomed in Australasia.
Dear Bulletin, —The strength of the pre-
sent Victorian Government is the weakness of the
Assembly as a whole. There doesn t seem_ to be
one just man in the whole crowd who dare rise up
and move that Shiels and Co. have lost the con-
fidence of the country by “bearing up for the
cronk bank directors. As long as Matthew Davies
remains the leading question of the day, the
Government is safe. . That speculative knight
must, in the time of his splendour, have acquired
a long lease of the Victorian Parliament s soul,
for it is noticeable that the new members,
“ Labour” and otherwise, are as silent concerning
financial scandals as the most hardened of the
men of the Old Brigade. — Yours, Melbourne.
/ A few days ago, Bishop Moorhouse told a
British audience that crime had reached an awful
pitch in Australia—and more particularly in
Victoria —because of the want of “religious
education” in the State schools. The official
statistics serve as an interesting commentary on
the bishop’s veracity. In 1861, secular education
hadn’t begun in Australia, and all the schools
were run on a religious basis, and at that time
the criminal convictions were 13 out of every
10,000 inhabitants. In 1888, when State religious
education was practically dead and forgotten,
they had fallen to 6 out of every 10,000, and they
have sunk a shade below that since. Therefore,
the evidence of statistics is that secular education
has reduced crime fully 50 per cent.
Griffith’s Queensland-splitting Constitution
Bill has only maSe*- Separationists
angrier than ever arid more determined to get
territorial separation, while Central Banana-
landers are mostly furious at being flung over-
board. The greatest grievance of the North is
that Winton, Boulia and Nebo have been cut
out of that sub-province. The anger exhibited
reminds old colonists, of the Separation days of
Moreton Bay, when the agitators wanted included
the Tweed River country? and, indeed, right
down to the Clarence, and when N.S.W. retained
the land right up to Burleigh Heads. The only
difference is that in the Moreton Bay case the
Colonial Office in London mapped out the new
province ; in the present instance, the Griffilwraith
has charted it. The Colonial Office is always bad,
but the Griffilwraith is worse.
AH the Tory papers in Maoriland are mak-
ing dreary jokes about the appointment of Mr.
John E. Jenkinson to the Legislative Council.
There is nothing against Jenkinson’s character or
intelligence ; the sole cause of the mirth is that he
was working inside a boiler when the telegram
arrived offering him the appointment, and the
message was handed in through the man-hole. If
Jenkinson had been found drawing up a brief to
get somebody convicted of homicide when he was
innocent, or collecting rack-rents from a terrace
that was let for immoral purposes, or cooking the
balance-sheet of an insolvent bank, or selling up
some widow on a 60 per shent bili-of-sale, or
taking a .£5OO fee as a barrister and never even
reading up the case, it would have been all right.
But he wasn’t doing any of these things. He was
following an honest avocation in a boiler, and the
Constitution is all burst up.
The other night, in Queensland Assembly,
Jonah Perkins, M.L.A , was in a riotous state of
mind, and painted the Legislature a bright red
for nearly three hours. He might, under the new
standing orders, have been arrested at his own
expense, and fined £5OO, and been gaoled at a
charge of £2 2s. per diem till he paid up, but as
Perkins is a capitalist , and a “right-thinking
person” nothing of the sort happened. Instead
Griffith “ reluctantly moved ” that he should be
“ censured " if he didn’t apologise, and as he
didn’t apologise he was censured. Then Griffith
moved with great reluctance that if Perkins
maintained his riotous attitude he should be sus-
pended for the rest of the sitting, but as
Jonah expressed his regret the motion dropped.
The £5OO fine and the gaol business are evidently
not meant for wealthy brewers like P. Perkins.
Says the Argus ; “ Victoria has certainly
fared the best of our Queens from the poets, for
Elizabeth obtained only fulsome flattery, and
Anne generally covert sneers.” Victoria fares
better, because she gets both, we suppose.
Many people suffer a martyrdom of head-
aches and backaches, due to irregular habits and
defective action of the bowels. Such troubles are
due to a sluggish liver, which does not secrete
sufficient bile to properly evacuate’ the bowels, and
prevents the expulsion of the waste material
collected from all parts of the body. Piles,
fistulas, abscesses, and inflammation all arise from
neglect of these fundamental laws of nature. If
mankind will disobey the rules which ensure per-
fect health, and over-work, over feed, and over-
drink, they must pay the penalty. As a remedy
and general regulator of the system for persons
suffering in a hereditary way for their ancestors’
neglect or over-indulgence, we recommend Dr.
Fletcher’s Pills as being the best the world pro-
duces, and the safest and most harmless medicine
extant. Sufferers are particularly warned not to
use violent and drastic purgatives ; they are par-
ticularly dangerous. Dr. Fletcher’s Pills are
mild as a lamb, safe as milk, and sure as an alarm
clock. They act gently, safely, and are generally
recommended by all their patrons, and are sold
everywhere by all medicine dealers, or direct from
F. M. CLEMENTS, Newtown, Sydney, for 13
penny stamps.


ups’ t§
.<4 3
Qir
f
df
-ittCsiccz of rf'jfiti’]'' 1 '
Is or, "* y dr 1
?ARfiES latest |ad is lo*object
%oX \h " 1
Well it" k io n)ear
loqa a»|d Colo^ial-njade
cloys . lef Sir rffarij
!)ik (jail* Cutai ]d
asV\ Sir Qpo Jibbijoirljc
address oj- k«s
Lmjdotj fclor.
f
s t 5
0, .
\i
\
'ty X- „
/y/c--/?
A
, x /
/ s f
0$ A <
1 1 ' / C T%
f]OKr TffOUBU BfiOljEN Hill
fc/EKfNp Part/. 'lf I stf you ijittiijej Ifiab
lilttc boy III call a jjohceojcLij.
pmin Bill NeAsßoj kU Jetdid k
%o aijci Call njy doq lltyj ttjrjjrdale Tofysop
o t •
h
US?**
v SV*
e 9»*a'7
u dorp
CHIEFLY IN SYDNEY.


7 I 7 l\
1^
/ -5 + hroOs k|
r>J
a G "'l°s^
/o/ on /1/r*r> <2 c/ f/'onr\
l-f/r> one/q/
[rUj'yes^AMe^//
' torn mane/ "
(Gov'err>m,er%t~ House /octroy
v >A‘\\mm . —“
k
o^^
C r '° lAJOecf - hea<J
Pep re [fve^^>
AT THE CUP.


WEST AUSTRALIA
TS the coming colony. Railways and Harbour works are
1 to be constructed. The goldfields are proving to be
rich, extensive and permanent.
The Best Investment is
Building Allotments at PERTH and ALBANY,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
CITY LOTS from £36
SUBURBAN BLOCKS ... from £lO
ALBANY LOTS from £l6
Note —These allotments are in selected positions
They have been selected by us, and are guaranteed good
Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
“There is Money in it.’’
Pamphlets and Marked Plans posted on application
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd..
30D Pitt-street, Sydney, N S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Omen:
ST. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
SCIENTIFIC COIiRECTTON OF DF.PECTIVIi SIGHT.
InT. Sz CO.,
[N. LAZARUS. N. DAVIDSON.]
(By Special Appointment to Nik Excellency the Marquis of Dufferin, ex-Viceroy and Governor-General of India,)
LONDON, CALCUTTA, 330 COLLINS STREET (MELBOURNE), WELLINGTON (N.Z.),
Have OPENED AN ESTABLISHMENT at
I 8 0 P 1 T T STRE E T, BYDN E Y.
TRADE MARK
*
’v.
m
REGISTERED.
OPTICIANS ONLY, and always especially desire to see all those who have hitherto found
parents to bring their children and have their sight tested. Consultation and advice frkk.
f IIHE system of Right-testing employed is onr own
J invention, Patent No. 4354, and has been uni-
versally admitted, both by Press and Public, to be
absolutely the simplest and most perfect yet dis-
covered for determining all errors of refraction. The
personal experience and practical knowledge has been
gained by many years of study and diligent research.
We remind the public that we are OOULIST-
it impossible to obtain suitable Spectacles. We invite
iY ft.—This is our ONLY ADDRESS in Sydney, and all New South Wales and Queensland Agents can be supplied from here.
Society
The solemn question of “ precedence ” has
seemingly kept Great Scott from this year’s Cup.
Her Majesty’s regulations don’t harmonise with
the idea of the Admiral —even although he’s only a
Rear-Admiral—walking across Elemington Lawn
in the wake of three Governors whilst the band is
playing “God S ive the Queen.” Scott stays
away, we fancy, in the interests of the Constitu-
tion.
* * *
A nauseous story circulates about an 18-
year-old white girl, lately released from Bathurst
{N.S.W.) gaol, having been badgered by a
religious philanthropic society into marrying the
alleged father of her child, a Chinaman. A fine
point in social ethics here arises. Which is the
more disgraceful—to have an illegitimate child or
to marry a yellow man with slanting eyes and a
pigtail? We commend the question to the
Y.M.C. A. debating society.
* * *
N.S.W. Judges were called upon last week
to deal with one or two more spotted attorneys.
A feature of this rascally age is the almost abso-
lute extinction of that class of legal practitioner
known as the “family solicitor” —a confidant to
whom a client might safely trust his life. Trust
has now so far decayed, that plenty of men who
lend money on mortgage pay the amount over
personally to the mortgagor, and receive the
interest thereon direct, rather than let their
lawyers handle it. Such things are significant
indeed of the decadence of legal reputations.
Trust-moneys now-a-days are going into the hands
of responsible corporations, from which people
have at least an even chance of getting back their
coin. Looking at the long, mawkish list of
respectable and even godly Australian attorneys
who have cleaned out their clients, and then cut
their own throats, or gone to gaol, or scooted to
Valparaiso-each an equally unsatisfactory con-
clusion from a dividend-paying point of view—it
is a marvel of human gullibility how anyone ever
entrusts bis worldly fortunes to a single individual
while there is a Trustees and Executors Co. to
deal with.
* * *
“ The Amazons behaved with great
bravery, advancing to within 10 paces of the
French lines. Their loss was enormous,” — Cable.
A novel feature in connection with a
bazaar and flower-show held in aid of a N.S. W.
up-country church last week was a “ high-jumping
contest for eats.”
* • #
In insisting upon the first year’s rent in
advance from all settlers under the Village Settle-
ments Bill, various Victorian M.sP. remarked
that “there was no guarantee of a man’s bona
tides unless he had some ready money.”—
Unto him that hath already shall a hundredfold he given,
For poverty’s a proof of lazy habits or of worse ;
But we know a man is worthy—that in sanctity he’s
striven—
When he’s conquered circumstances and put money in
- his purse.
There’s a noble law of Nature, or beneficent Jehovah,
That never fails to save the good and sacrifice the
trash;
(f a man is really worthy you will find that man in
“ clovah ”
You can reckon up his virtues if you count his ready-
cash.
# # #
The other day a man painted a capital
picture. He prides himself upon his works being
“ purely Australian.” This one was. It repre-
sented a flock of travelling sheep with drover and
dog “on the road.” But the committee were too
many for that artist. One, who had had a long
bush experience, at once asked why the sheep
weren’t feeding in place of staring about them,
as such animals never do. Other objections were
made. But the fatal one came from another
expert who pointed out that as the flock consisted
of different breeds it could not be accepted as a
11 ick at all. This, by his colleagues, was con-
sidered a clincher. So down went the picture.
# # #
One of the greatest dandies among Aus-
' i dian pressmen, a frock-coated genius well-known
a two or three provinces, had a perfect mania for
attending religious functions, such as diocesan
wnods, Presbyterian assemblies, Wesleyan con-
ferences, &c,, &0., a class of meeting which the
average reporter detests with Bohemian abhor-
rence. In a moment of confidence, this pressman
told a bosom friend the secret of his love for such
dreary assemblages. The parsons all wore bell-
toppers, and would hang them up on a rack, or
dump them down promiscuously on a table, when
entering the meeting. On the first day, this
parson-loving scribe would leave his old, ironed-
out plug-hat in exchange for a new, shiny-silk joy,
going carefully through the collection until he
found a perfect fit. On the second day, a battered
JUST CAUSE FOR HOMICIDE.
(Jenson for once in a blue moon had taken his own wife to the theatre.)
DEAR OLD PAL ( behind , flapping him on the back, loq., in a loud voice ):
“What! Another girl! I’ll put you away to the missus.”
relic from his wardrobe would find exchange for
another that he had eye-marked on the first day.
In short, he used to tile himself at the expense of
the saints. In a day or two, the parsons would
all bo off home again—scattered over the country
—and the batman could air his acquisitions in
boldest splendour. If he is ever caught, it will be,
of course, only a mistake —the natural and pardon-
able mistake of a well-dressed man looking for his
hat.
• * #
“ Marriage,” says a lady-writer in a Maori-
land paper, “is just this. You have a beautiful
wreath and veil on your wedding-day. The first
week passes pretty well. The second week you
have your mouth full of clothes-pegs, and about
the third you are trotting two miles with a basket
looking for cheap meat. And after that you are
looking for cheap meat all the rest of your life,”
# # •
A Sydney police-court maintenance idyll.
Lawyer Crick (to complainant wife): “Take my
advice and manage your home without your
mother.” Magistrate Giles: “Go and try and
keep your mother out of the house.” Complainant
(to husband); “If you keep my mother out of
the house, you won’t keep me. She’s ( boo-hoo )
the only friend I’ve got in the world,” Mag. ;
“ After that I can make no order.” Complainant
here fell down in a fit. Defendant walked away
unconcernedly. Her ma brought her to and took
her away. Graphic history-picture !
# # *
He was a beloved pastor, and he was con-
sumptive. His medical adviser prescribed the
South of France, and the Anglican clergy raised
him a subscription. But he was in debt and in
danger of being prevented from taking the French
leave he desired. He consulted a bosom friend
and laid bare his position. “File,” said the
friend. After a day or two of reflection, he again
visited the friend : “I havedecided to tile, valuing
your advice. But can you lend me .£5O? I find
that my travelling arrangements have to be modi-
fied and that I am in need of that sum, which I
can restore to you very shortly. You see, my
drafts have gone on ahead.” Money lent. A
fortnight later, the friend received through the
post a cheque for £(> 55., “ being the amount of a
final dividend of 2s. (id. in the £ against your
claim for £5O in the insolvent estate ” of the Rev.
Zachariah Slitherum. The beloved pastor had
gone to the South of France.
Canterbury (M.L.)
has just lost its miser.
He lived on a 150 acre
farm, which he sowed,
ploughed, harrowed,
reaped, and, in fact,
thoroughly worked all
by himself without em-
ploying anyone. He lived
in a cottage, unfurnished
except for a bunk, a cup-
board, two broken chairs,
and a box. His blankets
were never washed lest
the rubbing should wear
them out. He never
bought soap. His fry-
ing-pan—hisonly cooking
utensil except a kettle—
was never cleaned out,
lest dripping should be
wasted. He had a long
beard which he never
combed he didn’t
possess a comb. He had
proposed to every un-
married woman within
miles of him, rich or
poor, including two
daughters of an arch-
deacon of the English
Church and their house-
maid. Eor such a habit
he had been horsewhipped
several times, but that
didn’t cure him, so when
on his deathbed in the
hospital he was urged to
make his will he said,
“What’s the use? It’ll
b e upset when I’m
married.” He left about
.£12,000 to be divided
among sisters to whom
he wouldn’t give one
penny during his life.
* * *
It is noticeable that
old bachelors do not
marry young women,
whereas old widowers do.
Old bachelors, as a
rule, know too much
about young girls, while
old widowers know too
much about elderly
women. Hence the
phenomenon.
The Countess of Kintore had “some im-
portant engagements in Adelaide” which pre-
vented her accepting the Hopetoun invitation to
this year’s “Carnival.” Humph !
* * #
A Brisbane (Q.) Judge reprimanded a
solicitor who attended Court dressed in rather
loud tweeds, for appearing before him “in racing
costume.” The same Judge gave away a daughter
at the matrimonial altar while he was wearing an
alpaca dust-coat. Outrageous !
* * *
The Bulletin recently heard that the
Australian Church (Melb.) was in a bad way. The
latest is that the church in question has deducted
the “ usual collection ” from the Hospital Sunday
one. It is a sign of the times that St. John’s
Church, Toorak, which a couple of years ago gave
such an enormous collection on Hospital Sunday,
contributed only .£4O this time !
« * *
Out of a series of church conflicts similar
to that now raging at Bondi, Sydney, sprang up
the 1840 disruption in the Established (State)
Church of Scotland which resulted in the secession
of that considerable body known after as the
“Free Kirk.” William Begg, then a pastor at
Liberton and father, after that time, of Walter
Bentley, came then to the fore by reason of hi*
fighting abilities and dogged perseverance.
# # #
A female leper taken to Little Bay lazaret
from North Shore (Sydney) last week has been
diseased for over three years. With how many
people has she actually come into contact ? Or
her sister, who nursed her?
# # #
lie Dr. Manning’s chirpy statement that
Little Bay (Sydney) Hospital ambulances are used
for carrying lepers as well as ordinary patients,
and that no European nurse ever caught the com-
plaint : The reason why instances of nurse-victims
are rare is that the horror of the disease is so
abidingly intense that the nurses more than
strictly disinfect themselves daily and even hourly.
The disinfectant relied on—and which, it would
seem, is absolutely reliable—is corrosive subli-
mate (perchloride, or bichloride of mercury),
and can be convemently applied personally, since
the lepers usually only come into contact with the
hands of the nurses. But how are the Little Bay
leper ambulances disinfected ? With corrosive
sublimate? We think not. Yet sulphur, or car-
bolic acid, or any of the more common disinfec-
tants are not safeguauls beyond suspicion. Would
Dr. Manning ride from Little Bay to Sydney in a
freshly, but ordinarily, de-leperised ambulance,
without disinfecting himself immediately he got
into the nearest surgery ?
* * *
The Asiatic curse breeds fast. A European
leper, a miner by calling, has been found out at
Herberton, N.Q.
* * *
The semi-shelving treatment accorded by
Premier Dibbs to the N.S.W. Military Commis-
sion’s report appears to be largely due to the
influence of the lady attache (who are mighty in
society) of the N.S.W. military staff.
# • «
Lady delegates having appeared for the
first time at the annual Congregational Union,
Sydney D.T. argues that the chair of the union
should be occupied at least triennially with the
ministers and laymen by women. From the
standpoint of religious influence, the women ought
to be in the chair all the time. They supply
nearly all church energy, church money, and
church attendance. /
• # *
The pi’ess, the police-sergeant and a
solitary drunk were waiting in a N.S.W. country
courthouse for the tardy J.P. To while away the
time, the press mounted on the Bench, and called
on the drunk to plead. Then that wicked reporter
read the trembling wretch a homily on the curse of
liquor, and sentenced him to six months’ imprison-
ment with hard labour. As the press climbed
down again, the real J.P. entered and took the
charge. “Wot’s this?” said the drunk, “I’ve
been sentenced wunst already ; are you going to
do for me altogether ?” “Sentenced once already,
he says ! quoth the J.P. “You must keep an
eye on him, sergeant, he’s got ’em bad. I dis-
charge you this time, my man, but don’t let it
occur again.” Then the drunk wandered out,
thankful but mystified.
* * *
A multigraphed Melbourne W.C.T.U.
oegging appeal, just forwarded to us, bears the
signature “For God and others, M. E. Kirk.”
Which per-prpcuration authority is perhaps the
biggest order on record.
* * «
According to Hayter, one-fourth of the
Melbourne females between the ages of 18 and 30
must be living in a state of unmarried dependence
upon man. This is intentionally a roundabout
statement.
* # #
A country hotel guest entered the wrong
bedroom by mistake, and was confronted by a
half-dressed lady who attitudinised threateningly
witli a water-jug. He explained and apologised,
and was just leaving the room in confusion when
a baby-voice piped out— “Ma? Hit ’im wif a wet
sock ! Hit ’im wif a wet sock ! ”
* # #
It is related that at an English coroneted
dinner a nobleman thus addressed Dibbs : “By
the way—er —Mr. Dibbs, is there not a politician,
or agent, or delegate, or something, somewhere in
Australia, of the name of Parkes ?” Dibbs : “ Let
me think —’m er—yes, yes, to be sure there is;
yes, Parkes has been Premier, I think.” Nob. :
“I thought that was the name. He came to Eng-
land five or six years ago. I had a conversation
with him and was much struck with his—er—his
—er— his mangling of the Queen’s English.”
Dibbs (with an air): “That’s he!”
* * •
A Brisbane (Q.) restaurateur recently ad-
vertised for a waitress who would “do her work
pleasantly and cheerfully, and no ‘ shinanikin,’ ”
1 hat’s it. Never was there a waitress devoid of
“ shinanikin.”
• # *
Dr. Whittell was travelling once in Kiama
(N.S.W.) district. Rounding a turn in the road
When the French were attacking Dahdiney
The King, in despair, muttered “ Daumiy !
I’ll appeal to their hearts
With my Amazon ‘ tarts ’ ”
But the ruthless invader said “jammy !”
Past is the age of chivalry!
Oh, France ! to think ’twas left for thee
To pot at damsels in undress—
Good gracious ! Vive la Politesse !
Dahomey’s King, a savage rash,
Despatched those troops to do a mash ;
With bold, black eye each dusky wench
Came forth to kill the gallant French.
L’amour cst mart, if sons of France
Thus check a feminine advance ;
Do women's lips your souls disgust,
That ye can bid them kiss the dust?
His Majesty had thought to fire
Your bosoms with a hot desire—
With love the foreign foe to rout—
You fir fed low and laid ’em out.
Ah, Ciel! but it is passing strange,
How quickly Paris fashions change :
Now, ’stead of taking off your “cadey,”
You raise a musket to a lady.
Heigho ! henceforth we’ll have to swear,
None but the brave can shoot the fair,
In vain does Beauty spread her charms
When rushing to the Frenchmen’s arms.


BOSE ; S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delirious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
T H E U E S T BRIN K F OR A L L.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold by iPI Storekeepers, etc.
Qenebatj Agents:
JULES RENARD <3c CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Wolfe's Schnapps—<£l orders.
How can they make them ? Four G N U K
Darlings, Is.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad,, p. 1„
Sussex-street revels in G N U N Darlings.
At Woolloornooloo you can buy GNITN
' Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolfe’s Schnapps takes the lead.
Pare Havana fillers—G NUN Darlings.
Never be without a G- N IT N Darling.
G N U N Darlings draw free and burn even.
We’d better buy G N U N Darlings.
EYESIGHT PRESERVED,
“ SPECTACLES: their Use, when Required,
and how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, tha
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
4fi3. 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
he encountered an appalling odour. “ Oh, that’ B
a butter-factory,” explained his driver. “But
why doesn’t the Board of Health interfere ?’’
“ Oh, the Board of Health’s in Sydney. We send
the butter there, but the smell don’t travel as far
as that.”
# # #
While a Brisbane ’bus was jogging peace-
fully along the other clay, several women inside
began to shriek. The driver got down to in-
vestigate, and found a four-foot snake swarming
up towards the roof. It is a melancholy com-
mentary on the stagnation of Brisbane when wild
animals are beginning to pervade the deserted
thoroughfares, and even the omnibuses are liable
to be rushed by serpents as they pass along on
their melancholy progress.
# # #
The tenant was 70 years old and his wife
60. They owed their landlord <£4 10s. rent. The
tenant died, and immediately the landlord put in
a distraint, particularly instructing the bailiff to
seize and take away the dead body. The land-
lord’s wife waited outside to see the instructions
carried out. The bailiff, being human, only seized
the furniture, &c., and refused to touch the
scarcely-eold body of the unfortunate septua-
genarian. This caused a row outside the house
between the landlord’s wife and bailiff. All this
occurred in the cathedral city of Christchurch,
Maoriland, within the last fortnight. The land-
lord enjoys a highly-paid permanent official
position.
* * »
A present occupant of Pentridge prison
once fooled the police for eighteen months rather
cleverly. He was “wanted” for forgery, but
“the force” couldn’t find him for a year and >
j-half. He had shaved off his beautiful mou-
stache, and, though 22 years old, had gone back
so school. No one ever thought of seeking the
criminal in a public school.
* * *
Pastor Lucas : “The publican’s occupation
can never be made honourable while licensed
victuallers sell whisky.” Wrong. If they only
would sell whisky, and not disguised kerosene.
# ‘ * *
A pathetic woman-
story comes from Oamaru
[M.L.). The victim, a
society female in her
bestjclothes, heard voices,
or thought she did, on
the other side of a gal-
vanised-iron fence, and
in a burst of curiosity
put her bonnet and her
head through a small hole
to see what was going
on. There was nothing
particular going on, as it
happened, but her hair
caught on a nail inside,
or something of the sort,
and she couldn’t get
back again. She tried
in all sorts of desperate
ways but without the
slightest effect. She
couldn’t get her hands
through to disentangle
herself, and her excite-
ment only made her head
swell up so that the posi-
tion grew more and more
hopeless. Then she
whooped for assistance,
and in response an animal
came down the lonesome
road and proceeded to
sniff at her heels. Of
course she couldn’t tell
whether it was a dog or
a cow or a horse or a
goat, and about the
most agonising position
a woman can get into is
to have her head fast on
one side of a fence while
strange beasts are examin-
ing her on the other.
After about 15 minutes’
agony her yells brought
a benevolent old man on
the scene, and he started
to release her. He took
off her bonnet first of
all, and as she couldn’t
get through even then
he let down her hair,
and as she was still stuck
he took off her collar
next, and unfastened the
top button of her dress,
and then she struggled
out, with a great effort,
and went home weeping and dishevelled.
# # #
An authentic Australian printer’s error.
Thus the copy; “And, setting out to seek his
fortune, he joined the press.” And thus the
comp. : “ And, setting out to soak his fortune, he
joined the press,”
# * *
A lady has been nominated for a vacancy
in Auckland (M.L.) Municipal Council.
# * *
At her trial, Clara Parker challenged the
old men among the jurors called, and trusted her
luck to the young and ardent. This upsets the
general notion about Susannah and the Elders.
And the experience of the leg-stage anent bald
heads.
# * *
H. K. Rusden was on the nail lecturing on
Cremation in Melbourne the other night. Twenty-
two people, he said, had been squeezed into one
grave in Melbourne, and 70 in London.
# # #
Latest returns show that in N. S. Wales
the proportion of aboriginal half-castes to pure
aboriginals is increasing more rapidly than ever.
Black is white pretty often.
A certain Australian vice-regal household
is addicted to piety. Nevertheless, dinner is
cooked on Sunday. A domestic was lately dis-
missed for this reflection : “ We servants do our
daily work on the Sabbath, but as long as the
missus and governor gets to Heaven the poor
servants may go to H —l.”
# # *
South Australian lawyers have a rule
under which an English barrister cannot be
admitted to practice until he has resided a year
in the province, and he is also prevented from
working at any other calling during the interval.
Supposing the Broken Hill miners, or any other
similar organisation, were to attempt to make a
rule of that sort, what a capitalistic outcry there
would be! How is it that in politics nearly all
lawyers are Freetraders ?
* -* m
The very latest: —
T? MELB.—Gentleman requires Board, with single
room. State terms ; no Christian need apply.
Chili, Aqe.
* * *
Even Punch history repeats itself. A well-
dowered dame on the Darling Downs purchased,
some years ago, a gorgeous barouche from a lady
friend. Some days later the late owner was sur-
prised to see her crest and arms stiff adorning the
carriage-door. Remonstrance drew forth the
retort: “Well, and when I bought your turn-out
didn’t I buy it, paint and all ?”
• * •
A certain Queensland girl named Murphy
has an ardent swain named Jones. He can’t
understand why Miss Murphy’s friends dub him
“ The potato-masher.”
# * *
Dear Bulletin,—When a man has lived a
life-time in a place and has not sweated his fellow-
men, but has worked hard himself and paid his
taxes, and regularly weighed in with his bit to
the charities, and generally discharged the duties
of good citizenship; and, then, when evil
days come and he loses all through a wild cat
building society, and buries his wife and children,
and by-and-bye is all broken-up himself, and gets
A SERIOUS CASE.
1ST. OPEN-AIR SYDNEY POLITICIAN: “So, Biff, we are a goin’ for to
borrer three million more money. How are we to pay the
interest?”
2ND. DITTO DITTO: “Ah, Tom, that's wot’s a trubblin’ me.”
a big hole in his lungs owing to the holes in his
boots, and wants to just crawl into a hospital to
die, it is hard to run up against a notice like this:
Indigent persons desirous of admission I© the Metro-
politan Hospitals at the cost of the vote for the Main-
tenance of Sick Paupers, should apply at this office at
10.30 daily.
Yet this is the kindly invitation which I, now
unfortunately in search of free medical assistance
in the not uncharitable city of Sydney, read on-,
the outer waff of the hospital’s headquarters in
Chancery Square.—A.O.
* # #
Melbourne house property, in some of the*
most thriving suburbs, is now valued for rate-
collecting purposes at 12J per cent, less than last;
year.
* * #
Nowadays, the bold, bad baron does no#
always victimise the rare and radiant village-
maiden. The heavy villain in this narrative is-a>
gilded Melbourne youth who went into the
country to try the effect of his unearthly beauty
upon the rural damsel in her native wilds. He
soon made the acquaintance of a beauteous maiden
who was willing to take him round and show him
the scenery, but one afternoon she returned albnev
and told her friends that the stranger hadl
ventured to presume upon his loveliness and her
trusting and confiding nature, and would be foundl
in an abashed and broken-up condition under a.
certain honeysuckle-tree, about three miles out.
The gay deceiver was found on the spot indicated*
so badly damaged that he will not be fit for
publication again for many days.
# * *
Rev. Allen, for the defence at the Brokem
Hill conspiracy trial, deposed that he had heardl
labour-leader Ferguson say that “ if the blacklegs;
would not go back the men were to pray for
them.” And they caff this favourable evidence !‘
You cannot gall the average man worse than by
praying for him to his face.
Premier Dibbs : “A publican can be just
as respectable a man as the Chief Justice.” Which
opens up the whole question of “respectability,”
as understood by society. One Sydney publican
and ex-Mayor is a C.M.G.
* * *
A hundred police have now been for weeks
quartered in one room in Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
town-hall. A Barrier Miner contributor says
that he has “never yet seen their blankets even
aired.” “More, there are not enough blankets to
go round, and the man coming off duty has to
snap up the reeking rug of the man going on duty.”
* * *'
There has been another little affair a la
Clara Parker in another Australian capital —pre-
viously hinted at in The Bulletin. .£lOOO
settled it quietly, and the hurriedly-abandoned
“check” trousers were returned. The “member”
wore those trousers in the ’Ouse, last week, quite
unabashed.
* * *
The magistrates at Sydney Central now
endorse their charge-sheets with the number of
hours they sit each day, thus—“ Mr. Giles, 2J
hours ; Capt. Fisher, 1 hour.” Are they in future
to be paid by results ?
• * *
The most wonderful “possible” made in
connection with the recent N.S.W. Rifle Associa-
tion matches was that put up by a Sydney marks-
man at the picnic given to the interpretincial
visitors. He consumed no less than 21 plates of
oysters (10 to 12 on a plate) between 11 and 12.30
o’clock, and at dinner went through the menu.
* * #
The Union Club of Brisbane is in financial
difficulties.
THE GODS.—A SONNET.
Last night, as one who hears a tragic jest,
I woke from dreams, half-laughing, half in
tears ;
Methought that I had journeyed in the
spheres,
And stood upon the Planet of the Blest !
And found thereon a folk who prayed with zest
Exceeding, and through all their painful
years,
Like strong souls struggled on, ’mid hopes
and fears,
Where dwell the gods ?” they said, “ we shall
find rest.”
The gods ? What gods, I thought, are these
who so
Inspire their worshippers with, faith that
flowers
Immortal, and who make them keep aglow
The flame forever on their altar-tow’rs ?
“ Where dwell these gods of yours?” I asked —
and, 10,
They pointed upward to this Earth of ours I
Y. J. DALEY.
A Dog For Sale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Want t’ speckilate in a dog, mate?”
The strange sundowner whistled the sorry, sore-
eyed, fly-bitten nondescript away from the neck of
mutton hanging in the “ colonial ” safe behind our
hut, and held him aloft by the remains of a tail.
“ He’s game, y’ see.”
, “ Whac’s he good for, anyhow?”
“ Anythin’. I wouldn’t sell him, on’y I’m goin’
up t’ St. Arnaud t’ bury mother. Take him fer a
quid. He’ll run errands, steal meat an’ chickens,
perform on a powder-keg, keep flies off th’ grub,
an’ he’s th’ best sheep an’ cattle-dog on th”
roads ’tween here an’ Brisbin. Say eighteen
bob an’ a drink fer two. If you’d seen
that dog woi’k sheep you wouldn’t take him
from me fer less’n a fiver —you wouldn’t have th’
heart to do it. He’ll work ten thousand through
a crack in a fence, an’ you won’t gather enough
wool off th’ palin’s t’ plug your ear with. Say
fifteen Roberts an’ I’ll sling in a pedigree. See
here, mate, whisper, that pup there ’ll cut a
mob into squads an’ drill ’em. He’ll teach ’em
t’ form fours an’ march into th’ yards t’ th’ tune
of ‘ Th’ ole Bullock Dray !’ Jake ken round every
grasshopper in a forty-acre paddock into a jam-
tin. He’ll draft an’ keep tally. You won’t be
such a fool es t’ say half a quid’s too stiff fer a
gifted animal like that. See him after cattle ! He'd
yard a sunstruck scrubber into a bail, or lead
300 head of wild uns through a Wesleyan picnic
without spiffin’ th’ milk. Eight bob, I said, an’
it’s a sin t’ part with a dog thet’s bin in th’ family
so long, but there ain’t any help fer it. Eight bob
fer a pure-bred cattle-dog an’ a gifted linguist.”
“Awhat-er?”
“A linguist. Understands languages, yeh
know. That humble-lookin’ dog ken work sheep-
in three languages- —English, German, an’ Welsh,
an’ he knows a little Chinese. You can have
him for half-a-crown. No, I don’t think you’re
any mug, not at all. You see, he first learnt
it’ handle jumbucks with a Cockney; then a
' German—Yarman Harry—feller with one ear—
bought him, an’ he had t’ pick up th’ business
in German. Then a fat new-ehum Welshman
paid a fat price fer him, an’ taught him th’ orders
in Welsh. He picked up th’ Chinese as he went
along. Half-a-crown.”
Phil, chipped in, after examining the canine
prodigy.
“ Why, damn it all, man ! That’s the mongrel
from Rlackham’s at Ball’s Corner, that comes up
here after our rations.”
Another man might have been discomfited by
this revelation; not so the weary wanderer. He
scratched his chin reflectively for a moment; then
he looked up, radiantly.
“ That a fact!” he said. “ Well, tell you what,
mates. Give us a pipe of terbacker, an’ I’ll drown
th’ blanky, crimson, condemned ole hybrid.”
SILAS SNELL.
The Lebel rifle used by the French against
the Dahomeyans speedily reduced the ill-armed
savages to “human hash.” The Lebel bullet
rends as if it were explosive.
An indignant mother prosecuted a teacher
for cruelty to her boy. The boy’s face bore evi-
dence of severe punishment—his eyes were
blackened, a strip of detached skin fluttered like
a flag from his nose-tip. “My poor boy,” began
the magistrate, “who punished you like this?”
“ Mother, sir, for cheeking the schoolmaster.”
Black, the novelist, at a watering-place,
worked at early morn in an attic. There was a
large little family next door, and the partition
was thin. He heard the governess say: “Now
then, you little wretches, kneel down and say
your nasty little prayers.”
In a recent sermon Dr. Bevan (Melb )
said: “Christ is the theologian’s final subject,”
The sermon was printed for circulation, but the
comp, had made the preacher say : “ Christ is the
theologian’s final neglect .” That comp, had blun-
dered right on to a great big solemn truth.
Dan. Collins, of Port Douglas (N.Q.),
recently came to Sydney as having been for a long
time curiously ill. Sydney medicoes said it was
“consumption,” and Dan. went home to die. The
other day he coughed up out of his lungs a large
piece of bone, which (he now remembers) slipped
down his throat. It was a piece of his own jaw,
which gave way under a dentist’s forceps long ago.
He is now cured of his consumption.
In St. James’ Church, Sydney is a mural
tablet to the memory of Capt. Collett Barker.
39th Regt., after whom Mount Barker —the oldest
provincial town in South Australia —was named
by Sturt, the explorer. Captain Barker was
murdered by natives in April, 1831, while taking
observations on the Coorong in order to ascertain
the communication between Lake Alexandrina
and the sea.
Between 1836 and 1886, according to Mr.
T. Gill’s Bibliography of South Australia, 107
newspapers and magazines, some daily, some
weekly, and some monthly, passed out of exis-
tence in the province. Only one journal—the
Register —has had continuous existence since
1836. The Advertiser was established in 1858.
South Australia has the credit of publishing the
first penny paper in the Australias—the Tele-
graph, which first saw light in 1862, and which
was subsequently bought by the Express.
How you can discern the pigeonholed
biographies of men like Renan and Tennyson !
How musty and fusty they are, how different
from the lava poured forth from the pen of a ready
writer, on the actual spur of the death of a great
man ! When the news of Skobeloff’s death reached
Melbourne, Archibald Forbes happened to be
there, and what a magnificent biography he ran
■off! A journalistic delusion is that you can
deceive people with stuff written beforehand.
The pigeonholer is mighty on names and dates,
but what the reader craves for is flesh and blood.
Barcaldine (Q.) eight-hour demonstration
is generally pretty big, and the year of the
shearers’ strike it was larger than usual, all the
'unemployed bushmen helping to swell the show.
The secretary organised the great procession in
accordance with a list which he held in his hand, and
all went well till he came to item 21, “Young
Australia in wagonette, with banners.” Then he
called loudly for Young Australia with the
banners, and it appeared in the shape of a China-
man’s eight youngsters in a hired vehicle. It was
so horribly symbolical of what young Australia is
coming to in the North that no one knew whether
to eject the cart-load or not; but finally the
committee took refuge in a great slab of profanity,
and put the Chinese family at the extreme tail-
end of the procession, and tried to pass it off as
representing the spread of Christianity in the
East.
An excess of animal food and a partial closing
of the pores of the skin, during the winter months,
cause the system to become filled with impurities.
These are removed and the blood purified by
taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.


Footballers ! Smoke GN UN Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Luxury for the million, G N U N Darlings.
6NUN Darlings burn a snow-wliite ash.
Be a swell and smoke GNUN Darlings.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Bright's
Disease
Cured.
Great success is being scored in Sydney
with the Aubert Remedies. They have
really caught on well with our New South Wales
neighbours, who proclaim them a first-rate cure
for the various ills that frail mankind is heir to.
Of course, when a medicine has attained the
wide popularity these medicines have gained for
themselves, there are bound to be a few dissentient
voices; it is the penalty of success, as it is of
greatness. But confident that the majority of
those who have given them a fair trial are
thoroughly satisfied with the result of their experi-
ment, the advice to one and all is, when they feel
that formidable enemy to application to duty,
cheerfulness of disposition, &o., a severe cold
coming on, to try Marupa. If the first dose does
not relieve, the second will.
Kindly note the four Remedies, Marupa,
Paramo, Karana and Natanata, each of which are
invaluable in their turn.
Karana as a Tonic cannot be surpassed, while
Paramo has now proved itself to be a cure for
Bright’s Disease. In a letter lately received from
Mother Mary Joseph Aubert, she states she
effected a perfect cure with it. The patient went
to her as a last resourse, for doctors had given
him up; he was swollen in the face with the effect
of the disease. However, the worthy lady took
him in hand, and gave him a half toaspoonful of
Paramo every morning, and the same dose every
second evening.
After three weeks of that treatment he went
avyay perfectly restored to health.
This instance should prove how valuable these
herbal remedies are likely to become when they
were able to cure an affliction like Bright’s Disease
in its last stage.
Nothing Succeeds Like Success.
Three quarters of a year has now passed since
the ALT BERT REMEDIES were first made
public, and it certainly can be now said that they
have earned a splendid reputation. As cures for
the several ills they are recommended for, there
can be no doubt of their good character. All
medicines put on a market must be reliable, be-
cause it matters not how much you advertise if
there are not the best qualities to work with, your
money will be ill spent and bring in no just return.
The Remedies under notice have conclusively
proved themselves to be sterling, otherwise the
sales would never have reached their present pro-
portions, nor would such valuable testimony have
' been received as is now in the possession of the
proprietors.
In New South Wales, where they are now being
introduced, a steady demand has already set in,
helped in a great measure by the evidence of
success in New Zealand.
“KARANA”
Is a very favourite medicine, owing to its “tonio
and foitifying nature,” as testified by LORD
ONSLOW, It is quite harmless in its action, bub
it is sure with good result, and must give satisfac-
tion to such persons as will give it a fair trial.
Most persons have an idea that one bottle of
medicine will cure their complaints, and if they
do not feel quite well after taking two or three
doses they give the Remedy up in disgust. Pro-
bably these people have gone on SUFFERING
FOR YEARS, and then, because they see an
article advertised which EXACTLY FITS
THEIR COMPLAINT, they feel they ought to
give it a trial; but what does this trial consist of ?
Merely a dose or two, and if in a day a cure is not
effected on a complaint which probably has taken
years to build up, they say the medicine is worth-
less and not worth bothering with. Few persons
like to accept good advice, but to one and all we
say, if our Remedy is worth trying at all, let it at
least have a fair chance. A broken down con-
stitution cannot be built up again in a day, there-
fore we emphatically say that if
“KARANA”
is persevered with it will with everybody merit
the reputation it now has as one of the BEST
TONICS IN EXISTENCE.
MOTHER MARY has devoted years to ex-
perimenting, and in concluding her labours has
produced Remedies from the vegetable world the
value of which no one can gainsay.
“KARANA”
Is the REGISTERED TITLE of MOTHER
AUBERT’S TONIO. Obtainable everywhere.
2448
30th. July, 1892.
35,894.
THE above is the exact number of bottles ot
Mother Auberb’s preparations sold during
the past twelve months in New Zealand.
“MARUPA”
Proved to be a wonderful remedy for Coughs,
Colds, and all Bronchial affections.
Miscellaneous-,
A GREAT REDUCTION.
Weiners Journal of Fashion.
Subscription:
Yearly .. 4/-
Hftlf-yearly .. 2/C
Single Copy .. OJd.
Catalogues", containing
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPEIt
PATTERNS of DRESSES,
MANTLES, etc., sold from 3d. to
2s. Sent post free on receipt of
postal note or postage stamps from the principal offices.
d
c '
Post Free:
payable
in advance.
Sydney ... 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway).
Melbourne 99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
SYDNEY CATERING CO.
(LIMITED),
175 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
FIRST-CLASS
DINING and LUNCHEON ROOMS,
Under the superintendence of a high-class Chef.
MAGNIFICENT BAR.
(Upstairs.)
With BILLIARD ROOM contiguous, containing
Four of the most modern Tables.
The Premier Beverage,
We Drink Nothing Else.
TT is a drink that will fill a long felt want. It will ex-
-1 hilarate and not intoxicate. While it is delicious to the
taste, it has rare medicinal qualities. It is guaranteed to
be free from all impurities, being prepared from the pure
extracts of fruit and herbs. Royal Club Nectar and good
soda water is equal to the finest champagne. Royal Club
Nectar, pure or mixed with water, is very delicious. It is
the best Summer drink ever introduced. It greatly im-
proves the flavor of any' kind of spirits. Everyone likes
it. No hotelkeeper should be without it. Price 455. per
ease.
LUCAS BROS.,
AGENTS,
5 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Aqentis Wanted.
Shipping.
.VNGLAND VIA AMERICA
J IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn,
IN' lON STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND 1
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney |
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran- j
risco, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon j
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland, {
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route \
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land j
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d. i
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
ffOMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MARI-
TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEB, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £O5,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates;—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply ab the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
GOLDEN SHANT Y.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 25., post paid.
I
Furniture, etc.
For bedsteads, children s cots,
Spring Mattresses and Bedding.
GO TO
LAWLER’S,
608 George-streeb,
FOR Austrian, American and Cane CHAIRS,
Bamboo Blinds, Garden and Balcony Seats;
for Camp Folding Bedsteads, with Woven Wire
Spring Mattresses.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street.
OR CARPETS, LIN OLEUMS^
CLOTHS, Rugs, Mats, Blinds, Matting
Kapok, Upholsterers’ Materials, Tapestries,
Plushes, Gimps and Cords, etg.
GO TO
. LAWLER’S.
For toilet sets, china, glass-
ware, Dinner and Tea Sets, Cups and
Saucers, Cruets, Cutlery and Plated-ware, Mangles,
Copper Boilers and Stoves.
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-street,
FOR HALL and LIBRARY FURNITURE,
Dining and Drawing Room Furniture,
Bedroom and Kitchen Furniture,
GO TO LAWLER’S,
608 George-streeb,
Write for Estimates.
JOHN LAWLER *nd SONS
Wire Mattress and Bedding Manufacturers,
Upholsterers and Cabinetmakers,
608 GEORGE STREET. Established 1860,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUES Free by
poston application addressed to the Head Office of
JOHN LAWLER and SONS,
608 George-street.
Amusements.
H
EE MAJESTY’S THEATRE!
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Kignold.
EVERY EVENING and UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE,
\'i 1 lie produced, by special arrangement
with Mr. J. C. " illiamson,
“THE SILVER KIN Gr.”
Mr. Geo. Kignold ; s Wilfred Denver.
Assisted by an Exceptionally Powerful Cast.
PRICES as USUAL. ROX PLAN at THEATRE.
PALACE AQUARIUM.
Proprietor ~ .. Mr. Wsi. Larmour.
Every Sunday Afternoon
* High 'class ami En joy aide Concept, *
Quadrille Assembly every Wednesday Afternoon.
The Marble Swimming Baths now Open.
Ladies from 10 till 2 Daily.
CARRINGTON GROUNDS.
MOORE PARK.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER ID, 1803.
First Appearance in Sydney of
FILMS’
FILLIS’
FILLIS’
GREAT CIRCUS and MENAGERIE
GREAT CIRCUS and MENAGERIE
GREAT CIRCUS and MENAGERIE
of
PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS
PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS
PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS
after tlieir most successful Tour through South Africa,
India, China, I imna, Ceylon, and Java.
So Horses and Ponies, 4 Nubian Lions ; 5 Performing
Eli ph mis, Peiforming Royal Bengal Tiger, Monkeys,
Panthers, &c., and a company of
7 O — P E R S O N S —7 O
Afternoon Performances every
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
When children and their nurses will be admitted
half-price.
A DJI ISSION—4s., 35., 25., and ONE SHILLING.
ChEdien half price.
Sole Proprietor, Mr. F. E. FILLIS; Business Manager,
SIGNOR AGRATI; Advance Representative, Mr. ALLAN
HAMILTON.
mHE STANDARD OPERA HOUSE,
JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
The Lessees of the above Magnificent New Theatre are
prepared to negotiate with First-class Stars, or Managers
of First-class Opera, Comedy, or Dramatic Companies, for
the occupation of the above Theatre in Johannesburg and
tour through South Africa, either on shares, or such
terms as may be arranged. Would be disposed to pay
Travelling Expenses from Australia and through South
Africa, providing all Theatres, Scenery, Orchestra,
Costumes, Advertisements, and Advance Agent.
KST All Bailway Travelling,
Apply for particulars, cable address—“ OPERA,” or by
Letter to the Secretary, Standard Buildings Co., P.O. li.
848, JOHANNESBURG, TRANSVAAL.
I
S : P
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
ia Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M'hn. PANZA, Box 913
0.1'.0., Sydney.
f
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
od., 335. od., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. Od., 18s. (id., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 155., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755., and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality, £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. To be obtained through
any music-seller or stationer in Australia, or direct from
.I.‘ALBERT & SON, 108 Kinar-street. Cheapest Music
Warehouse in Australia. Illustrated catalogues and par-
ticulars posted FREE.
ST. BERNARDS.
A FEW GOOD PUPS by M'Leod’s BRUCE,
by WALLACE (imported), out of my
Bitch UNA, by Champion MONK. Well-marked
and healthy.
W. SANDERS,
Australia Street, Woollahra
(near Bondi Junction).
p
OPULAR WATCHES AT POPULAR
PRICES!
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an enviable reputa-
tion as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and IN-
EXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
SERIES ‘ E,’ the old long-winding Pioneer,
and SERIES ‘J’ (for Gents) and ‘L’ (for Ladies),
the time-tried short-winding Wonders, are still to
be obtained at popular prices within the means of
all.
SERIES ‘ K, J THE NEW GENTLEMEN’S
WATERBURY, a splendid watch fitted with all
the most modern improvements. Prices—Nickel,
80s., Sterling Silver 455., Rolled Gold 675. 6d.
SERIES ‘N,’ THE NEW LADIES’ WATER-
BURY, a perfect little Gem. Prices—Nickel
255., Sterling Silver 405., Rolled Gold 555,
Mr. G. Evans, watchmaker, Howick-street,
Bathurst, writes under date 15th June, 1892 : “I
have carefully examined the Waterbury Watches,
and find them splendidly finished, especially the
Gold-cased Series ‘K ’; and I am of the opinion
that they are the grandest watches made in the
world for the money. I always wear one of the
Gold Series ‘K,’ and it keeps the very best of
time.”
Waterbury Watch Co.’s
Repair Depot,
56 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Note the Address,
COLGATE’S CASHMERE BOUQUET
Toilet Soap is made with the utmost care from
materials selected with the
GREATEST REGARD FOR PURITY,
And the soothing and beneficial effect which they
impart to the skin and the complexion.
FIFTY PER CENT,
jf the comfort of shaving depends on the soap used,
Try COLGATE’S DEMULCENT SHAVING
SOAP.
For the handkerchief, no preparation can com-
pare with
CASHMERE BOUQUET PERFUME.
Madame Saka Bernhardt writes : “Colgate’s
Soaps and Perfumes are Exquisite.”
Miss Myra Kemble, writing of Colgate’s Cash-
mere Bouquet, says: “It is the most delicious
perfume in the world, and when used in conjunc-
tion with Cashmere Bouquet Toilet Soap is per-
fection itself.”
The name and trade-mark of Colgate and Co.
on each article assures purchasers of superior and
uniform quality. Their various exhibits obtained
the HIGHEST AWARDS at London, 1887;
Newcastle, 1887 ; Ostend, 1888 ; and
GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1889.
Sold by all leading chemists and perfumers.
Two-thirds of the Melbourne reporters are
from Sandhurst and Kyneton.
The “flourishing export trade ’ in Vic-
torian brandy amounts to above <£lo,ooo per
annum.
When Dilke entered the House of Com-
mons, Disraeli said: “The future leader of the
Conservatives !”
Bismarck, Loftus says, bragged in, 1861,
at Baron Brunnow’s London party, that he would
rule Germany, and turn out Austria.
Algeria is to be denuded, by French com-
mand, of Anglican missionaries. No Mahometans
are, it is said, ever converted to any other religion.
The season is approaching when we may
look for a Christmas leader in S.M. Herald in
which the writer will contrive to say a few civil
things of Christ without compromising the paper’s
diplomatic relations with the world, the flesh, and
the Devil.
The manager of a Melbourne evening
paper, after “retrenching” the other depart-
ments, tells his compositors that the type-setting
must be done on weekly wages. The devils’
answer is a sardonic smile.
CURIOUS FACTS
ABOUT GORSES
JIBBING NOT A VICE
Mayhew, the well-known authority on horses,
says: “Jibbing is not a vice, but a nervous dis-
order —a sort of equine epilepsy. A word spoken
sharply can summon the attack, which generally
deprives the animal of all power of motion, or
forces it to move in a contrary direction to that
desired. The movements are independent of the
will; and if any person will attentively examine
the countenance of a horse when in the act of
jibbing, the real character of the supposed vice
will be recognised. When jibbing is exhibited, a
spasmodic fib has possession of the frame. It is
useless to flog or inflict other tortures. The attack
will last a certain time, and then, perhaps,
suddenly vanish. No brutality can shorten its
duration, though cruelty may possibly lengthen
the convulsion. The horse should, in such a case,
be allowed to stand quietly, the harness loosened
where tight, and the bridle held to prevent him
bolting, as often happens when a horse regains bis
senses after a fit. This form of epilepsy is a
distinct malady, from which a horse seldom
recovers, and it would be an act of humanity to
put the sufferer out of his misery at once.”
What a large percentage of people own horses
and know little or nothing of the nature and ail-
ments of the animal! In the interest of this
patient, willing, dumb servant we think that
veterinary science might well be included in the
list of technical subjects taught in our schools.
Owners of horses should at least be well versed in
the simple ailments of a horse, and know what
remedies to apply. In the meantime, for the
benefit of those unacquainted with the fact, we
may say that for sprains, swollen legs, and the
like, St. Jacobs Oil is a sure and safe remedy,
acting as a certain pain conqueror and healer in
the case of the beast, as it is in that of the human
being. Thousands of proofs have been adduced
of this important fact, of which the following is
one : Mr. Thomas Wade, of 4 Hunt-street, Surry
Hills, writes: I have used St. Jacobs Oil for my
horse with capital results. He had one of his
forelegs swelled to a great size, and was very lame.
I was advised to try St. Jacobs Oil for it and did
so. I bought two bottles, but one was sufficient;
the first application brought down the swelling,
and the leg was completely cured in a very short
time.


Gala, o/o H. Alexander, 07 Oxford-street,
Sydney. Dpc. Handioftp, Ros©l)il.l) Dgo. *srn.
10,000 at 5 eacli. Send at once.
Press and Subscribers thoroughly satisfied with
Gala, c/o H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street, Sydney.
Event Deo. 3rd. 10.000’at 5 each.
Your fortune, send at once for tickets to
“Gala,” c/o H. Alexander, 07 Ox ford-street,
Sydney.. Dec, 3rd. 10,000 at 5 each. Register.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
For Influenza, Golds etc., Colemane and Son
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled;
Now the public are assured ours are genuine;
Filling rapidly. Gala, e/o H. Alexander. 07
Oxford-street, Sydney; 10,000 at 5. Dec; 3rd;
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Ghakd
JIELBOCKNH.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments'for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne. .
dfd
EASIEST, QUICKEST,
BEST BLACK LEAD
CHEAPEST, AND
IN THE WORLD.
fd
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
LABOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO Packets of the “RISING
SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
B
!
<
(
!
CHANCELLORS 'Plak 9owden
PRODUCES a mirror-like brightness.
Sold by all Grocers and Storekeepers. '
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over 20 years before the public of N.Z. andN.S.W.
Events
now
Open.
)
SIMJIKR CUP.
NEWMAUKET HANDICAP.
SYDNEY «OLD CM'
f Regiiter
\ your
V Letters.
-Our printed circulars posted on receipt of self-addressed
envelope and stamp.
Our Only
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
Be sure and register } o.ir letters and take dare of the
rece'pt for registration till yen receive our reply.
Gala's Monster Prize List.
THE SUMMER GUP— 26th DECEMBER.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
Fiis', ifiOO ; Second, 600: Third, 300; S. (d.), 600 (
N.S. (d.), 400 ; 20 at 20, 400 ; 30 at 10, 300 ; 100 at 500 ;
100 Consolations at 2 each ; 200 at 1 each.
TATTERS ALU’S CUP— 2nd JANUARY.
At 5 each (20,000 Subscribers) At 5 each.
First, 1500; Second, 600 ; Third, 300 ; S (d.), 600 ;
N.S. (d.), 400; 20 at 20, 400 ; 30 at 10, 300 ; 100 at 5, 500 ;
100 Co isolations at 2 each ; 200 at 1 each.
State amount enclosed, and two staiflped-addressed
envelopes with application — one for receipt and the
other for result. Register your letters. Stamps will be
received if 5 per cent, exchange is added with full amount.
Address: GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Printed circulars free.
worth scmowisy©.
WORLD WiUfc..
SPECIFICS”
“ Its fame, like gold, the more 'tis tried,
The more shall its intrinsic worth proclaim!
“ GOLDEN SPECIFIC.”
The celebrated and only safe, sure and
speedy ANTIDOTE TO PRUTS,
The SYSTEM ONCE IMPREG-
NATED BY THIS REMEDY THE
HSE OF ALCOHOL^MUST CEASE.
THOUSANDS PROVE IT.
The “Golden Specific” neutralises the effect of
a'cohol and promptly corrects and stays its use. It
supplies the place of the accustomed liquor and
prevents that absolute physical and moral prostration
which so frequently follows the sudden discontinuance
of stimulating drinks. Prepared in both powilcr
•md lioulil form according to the formula of l>r.
Haines Hundred* in Hike colonics Have
flic* “CJolilen Specific” in use and testify
toils complete efficacy and success. Head the scores
of Testimonials received by ns daily from all parts.
TO THE DIPSOMANIAC.
The “ Golden Specific” IS a positive and certain
antidote to drink and l ures the worst cases.
TAKE IT IN TIME. SEND FOR OUR BOOK.
SCIERtIA Onj-jiAViNCI^
1
1
Golden
ANTI
v, -
DRINK
aOVDtt,
iL*£CIAS
brand
LCOHOU
SSI36
he Demon Drink.
The acknowledges! cure for
UNKENNESft
or the li |uor habit. inehriacy and :ilfolioh«in
(in any form) <3 an he given secretly or other-
wise. Placed in a Cup of Tea or Coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot' be noticed. Warranted perfectly
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so
quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his
complete reform is effected. An overdose Is
harmless and it docs not impair or
■ninre the health in any way.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE.
Write for book of particulars and colonial testimo-
nials, sent post fn eon reccpt of stamp Beware of
/m ilaliuns. Hehave no A yenls.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.,
145 and 147 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
READ THIS !!!
SPORTING NOTIONS.
ikey Mo is the real rlame of the horse that won
the Melbourne Cup. He had an bverhanging beak and
probably wore a hat with a green veil attached. He
doesn’t appear in the acceptance-lists, but he was the
only animal that won anything, so he may fairly be
put down as the winner. The horse that came in
first was Glenloth, with Honda second, and Penance
third. They were all 100 to 3 chances on the night
before the race, and not even the most prophetic
tipster came within a hundred miles of any one of them.
This includes The Bulletin tipster. All the red-headed
men who used to go out very early in the morning to
Watch the gallops and look intensely knowing, like a raven
peering into a jug, didn’t even begin to think of
the winner. All the men who hung mysteriously
about street corners and secretly swapped information
are left. All the men who drew the favourites in the
big sweeps, and went howling drunk in consequence, are
now putting their hats in the ice-chest and trying to
sober up. The Gentile chews shin of beef and cold water;
and Ikey Mo banquets on fizz and roast turkey.
The first day’s racing at I lemington produced
lair average results for the public. Of late, there has
been more and more difficulty in gauging the “ form ” of
horses, and understanding the system on which they are
managed by their respective “ parties,” and Saturday’s
running went far to confirm a suspicion that the said
management is inanely artful and “cleverly” foolish.
When men like Donald Wallace and the late James White
owned good animals they made the most of their oppor-
tunities, but, nowadays, the only animals having preten-
sions to be called “cracks” seem to be generally em-
ployed in getting beaten for no ostensible reason. No
money is made out of their defeats. Their eccentric per-
formances arc not controlled by a well-thought-out policy.
Heaven only knows what certain stables are driving at,
and is grieved, no doubt, to find that they are generally
driving at nothing in particular. To which state of things,
more than to the prevailing scarcity of money, the falling-
off in public betting may be attributed. Racehorse
management hasn’t killed the goose that lays the golden
eggs, but the goose feels very sick, and has gone off the
lay considerably.
# # *
If Attains was worth leaving among the Mel-
bourne Cup acceptances, why scratch him for the Y.R.C.
Derby? This conundrum became the more unanswerable
when Attains had won the Maiden Plate in very racehorse-
like style. Why scratch Autonomy for the Derby and
Cup,, previous to backing him for the Melbourne Stakes,
which he won ? Why were so nlany Cup horses running
unbacked in the Stakes, worth a solid £500? The race
entailed no penalty. Carbine, Mentor, Dunlop, Sheet
Anchor and Malua all had a good “ go ” for the Stakes, in
which they all finished either first or second, before win-
ning the big handicap. What’s the matter with £500)
that owners nowadays don’t try to pick it up ?
# * *
Malvolio and Correze were the most mobbed of
all the Stakes candidates in the saddling-paddock, and
they both kicked and plunged a little while their shoes
were being removed. Certainly Redfearn’s pair didn’t
start far the two-mile race (on Tuesday) in an overdone
condition, judging from their behaviour on this occasion,
but Malvolio li >oked remarkably well all the sxme. After
the gallop—in which young George Redfearn complained
of being nearly knocked over—Malvolio’s coat dried off
much more rapidly than Correze’s, so if the latter has (by
the time this appears in print) beaten his stable com-
panion in the Cup, those who studied them carefully on
Saturday will be astonished. Of all the horses that went
for the Stakes muscular Malvolio was the most impressive;
next to him for real good looks came Paris, whilst few of
the others had such a staying shape as little Hopetoun,
who won the Hothara Handicap an hour later. Hopetoun
is a nugget of a hors \
* * *
Probably there was something in the rumour
that Camoola had begun to go off before the Derby. His
ribs were unduly evident, and the premonitory symptoms
of staleness seemed to be peeping through the colt’s fes-
tive appearance.. Camoola won the Derby because he was
still faster for a mile and a-half than the horses —mostly
very ordinary-looking—that ran behind him, but he
finished like one weary and heavy-laden. Also, the sweat
steamed off him afterwards, and if Camoola could wun the
Cup, it might be taken for granted that the older horses
were as poor a lot as have started for the race these many
years. The Maribyrnong Plate result seemed a good
argument in favour of The Admiral for Tuesday,
and the victory of W. R. Wilson’s Cooya in the Coburg
Stakes pointed a moral. The second-rate horses from
first-class stables are better worth backing, as a rule, than
the first-rate horses from second-class stables. Scobie,
who has nothing that can give him a good line to swear
by had tried Goldreef well, as he thought, and (old all
his friends to back the horse. But Goldreef didn’t pay a
dividend.
* * *
While old Alec Taylor, of Ballarat, was saddling
Airlie on Saturday, an“ acquaintance came up and en-
quired, in a loud innocent whisper, whether it was “ on
the job.” “Why, you must be one of those suspicious
people who think that horses don’t always try to win,”
said Taylor.
m * *
The War Cry of Saturday has a racing cartoon
entitled “Cup Day,” by C.A.M. Had it been for the
Derby, what price the tip ? O.A.M.—oola.
« * *
The Red fearns, father and son, respectively
slept in the boxes of Malvolio and Correze for a while
before the Cup, fearing nobbling. And now—the satire
of the thing !
# *
No Melbourne Cup for many years with so few
visitors. The hiatus first became palpable at the Sydney
end with an eight o’clock railway rush provided for, which
rush never came. A few bald patches on the Hill. Al-
together a slow Cup, as they go, and the Caulheld Cup
sneaks up. „
* * *
The Y.R.C. is drawing in its horns, or thrusting
them forth, about charging to the Plat. They try it on
hv excluding touts from the training now that the course
is SHindlv fenced. All this is rehearsal. If the Cup
returns should show a big falling-off the Government will
he approached once more, as it was a couple of years ago.
# * *
In the spring the mad moths flutter round the flame of
our racecourse — * ... .
In the spring the young man s fancy lightly turns to
thoughts of horse.
The combined influence of the Argus and the
Age was at the back of the pro-Tote Bill, and it was
beaten by 30 votes to 7in the Victorian Council. The
Age, no doubt, will quote this as another case of Ahgub
impotence.
# • *
“Melbourne, Wednesday.—The Legislative
Council, after a heated debate over the second reading of
the Totalisator. Bill, threw it out by a large majority.
The Council than adjourned over the Melbourne Cup
week.” Nufced:
* * *
The Victorian Legislative Council’s rejection of
the Totalisator Bill is a sign not of the Council s
morality, but that it is prepared to tight the Lower
House in every possible point and to embastion the
Hebrew bookmaker or any other privileged shark.
9 * *
Petitions against the totalisator in Victoria
are invariably drawn up, signed and delivered by
people who have never made a bet in their lives. The
evangelicals are tip in arms against the machine because
they have heard that it will tend to reduce the number of
young men ruined by racing. Now, the young man who
embezzles money to meet his credit wagers is a great
Comfort to the evangelicals, and without him they would
be as unhappy as teetotallers who can’t find a boozer to
groan at.
* * *
lifon-raoing members of the Vie. Leg. Council
were almost unanimous in damning the Tot 3. Somebody
has persuaded them that it is a machine for turning out
bets faster than they can be manufactured by hook-nose
Hebrew labour, and on this understanding the solemn old
geesers fought for the “books.” In the interests of
morality they voted as one saint against an al angement
for reducing bad language and lengthening the odds.
* * *
The sort of advertisement yon now see in the
dailies;—“l intend to scratch Waratah for Melbourne
Cup next Tuesday. A. Shirving, c.o. A. F. Bradshaw,
Mordialloc.” Ellipsis—unless the sweep-ticket holder
comes to scratch.
* * *
Strange that, in connection with the Melbourne
prosecution of the shop-bookmakers, the policeman who
backed a horse with each of the accused as evidence did
not strike a winner. It makes one wonder what would
have happened had he struck something at tens. Perhaps
he would have reasoned then “that the pore bookie had
to earn his living as well as other people;”
# * *
Isabel, the crack little pacing mare, was running
in a milk-cart before she came to Sydney. She is credited
with being by Loup Garou, but Knight believes her to
have been sired by the trotting stallion Boccaccio;
N # * *
A sport deploring the loss of past crack horses,
was informed by a very cute trainer that he might have
the lot if he (the trainer) could be blessed with a couple
of Gibraltars that would stand preparation.
# * *
The latest about Peter Jackson, whose modesty
has made him hosts of friends in England, is t tat during
Doncaster race week he was attacked by several ruffians
in a hotel for having remonstrated with them about then’
bad language. Despite the use of decanters by the
enemy, who kicked and bit, Peter gave his five friends
(three knocked out with successive blows) a heavy drub-
bing.
• • •
The most ingenious “ coincidence’’-tracker up
to date is the man who found that the name of the Mel-
bourne Cup winner ought to contain the same number of
letters as those of the owner and jockey. Bravo—Jones
—Aqwin (5 each). Carbine—Wallace —Rammage(7 each).
Malvolio—Redfearn—Redfearn (8 each). Fate, according
to this'gentleman’s theory, had reduced the Cup of ’92 to
a match between Malvolio and Portsea.
* * *• •
The Queensland Turf Club is fast on the down-
ward track.! The handicapper is now saddled with £lOO
a year income. The starter carries the same weight. It
takes brains to handicap, but we never heard of a starter
with any. ~
* * *
Marshall, of Tasmania, has chopped an 18in.
block in Imin. 32sec.-record. A Tasmanian correspondent
writes that he would like to learn the best N.S.W. axe-
men’s records for standing blocks of 18in. or 2ft.—and
particulars as to class of wood, etc.
* * *
The Melbourne Cricket Club is trying to fix a
charge of admission for the pennant cricket matches.
This revives the question of the alienation of the public
domains. Will there ever be a syndicate to charge for the
sunshine ?
• * *
The handsome Challenge Cup, for battle-firing,
competed for at the recent N.S.W. rifle-meeting, consists
of a vase and plateau, designed, modelled, and manu-
factured by W. Mammatt and Sons, silversmiths, Sheffield.
# * *
Abe Willis simply slaughtered Holden in their
fight at Sydney. The police, enjoying the fun, stood by
and saw Holden cut to ribbons and drenched with blood.
The Sydney' morning papers take no notice of prize-fights
—unless they happen to occur at the other end of the
cable !
• • *
Report says Martin Denny’s sprain was only a
“stall ” to postpone the match until the return of sports-
men from Melbourne.
• * *
The Bulletin has been represented at the
drawing of one of “Gala’s” fast-growing consultations.
Everything appeared perfectly square and above-board.
* * #
Jackson and Corbett should now tour the world
with a play special’y written for the occasion, in
which they fight a sham battle to be stopped by the stage
hobby after a cert lin number of rounds, just by way of
preventing jealousy between the pa r. Millions in it.
» # #
All sportsmen will wish Mr. “Joe’’ Carruthers
well with his N.S.W. Bill, extending protection for five
years to certain native and other birds: pheasant, part-
rid.se, grouse, Cal. quail, white and black swan, emu,
lyre bird, regent bird, rifle bird, great kingfisher and
Indian minali.
Some facts about Mr. “A. J. Miller,” of 40
Hunter-street, Sydney,” who advertises (but not in
Sydney) that he is running a consultation. On 28th April
two men took an office at 40 Hunter-street. Same after-
noon a third man called, and paid the rent in advance to
28th Oct. In a day or two scores of telegrams arrived for
Mr. A. J. Miller, aiid then many people began to enquire
for that gentleman, who, however, has not been visible.
Information was given to the police, the detectives
watched the office for a couple of days, but saw nobody.
Mr. A; J. Miller must have received a lot of coin from the
trusting public of the Australian provinces. Has anyone
drawn a prize ?
# * *
The footballing committees of Toowooitiba, Q.,
united to fohn a local Gymnastic and Athletic Club,
adopting certain rules, among which see No. 3:—“The
President of the club shall be the Vicar of St. Luke’S, and
he shall have the right of nominating the Superintendent
and two members of the Committee;” The Vicar says the
Club is placed under the wing of the Church, as a
guarantee to the public that it will not deteriorate from
its original standard of morality, dontCherknow ! The
pious athlete is to be a Toowoomba production.
# * *
The curse of Deeming again ! Alfred Spedding,
principal witness of identification at the trial, and promi-
nent Carlton footballer, has been disoualified for rough
play by the Victorian Football Association until July
next.
* * *
Woodforde struck the biggest double of 1891 —
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups, £lO,OOO to £lO.
# # #
Tattersall’s second 50,000 sweep on the Mel-
bourne Cup filled in three days. 8500 registered letters
came by one post;
# # *
A Sydney business man, who has sunk some
hundreds in Tattersall’s sweeps without winning one
prize, gave a ticket of this year’s 100,000 Melbourne Cup
sweep to the widow of one of his employes, She drew
an outsider.
* * *
George Giffen has gone off much in bowling,
although he bats as well as ever this year. The other
Saturday he was badly punished on a second-rate wicket
by a second-rate batsman. George will probably go to
England, after all. Until lately he was firm against going,
mainly through the influence, ’tis said, of a lady, but cir-
cumstances have altered.
# * *
A Cairns (N.Q.) servant-girl, who drew Paris in
a big Caulfield Cup sweep, has since had more than a
dozen offers of marriage. The Australee man is ever
ready to marry the winning ticket.
• * *
Some Sydney jokers wired a Que ensland country
postmaster" that he had drawn the winning horse in a big
sweep. The postmaster at once sat down and wrote out
his resignation. Worse, he sent it in to headquarters.
Next day, his friends wired him the truth, telling him
that the’first telegram was “only a joke.” He is now
waiting to see whether Minister Unmack will take his
resignation as a joke.
# * *
At Clifton (Q.) races the judge’s stand was a
dray. It was well loaded up when the big race was run,
and there was a horse in the shafts. Just at the critical
moment the old moke reared up, tilted everybody on to
the ground, and started to race round with the empty
dra >’’
Coningham, the crack Queensland cricketer who
has just arrived in Sydney, is a fine sprinter. There was a
big Sheffield handicap in Brisbane some two years ago,
and in the final heat Coningham ran to win £llOO and to
los 30. What a grand race that final was ! Coningham
first, said the crowd. Coningham second, said the judge.
There have been no more big handicaps in Brisbane.
# # *
Perhaps the most sensational win in “Tatter-
sall’s” sweeps was that of the released prisoner who
brought with him out of gaol a half-sov., invested it, and
drew first horse in a big sweep.
# * #
In “ Tattersall’s ” big sweep on the Mel. Cup
of last year, ticket No. 1 drew G’Naroo ; this year it drew
a £lO prize.
* * *
A Melbourne paper, the Sporting Judge,
tipped no less than 12 horses in one issue for the Caulfield
CUP ’ * #
A Melbourne tote-proprietor bas in his ad.
“Results posted prior to running of events.” This is
what backers have been wanting for a long while. He
ought to do well—-when the police let him.
* , * *
La Fleche won the Cambridgeshire Stakes last
week, carrying Bst. 101bs., the highest weight fora winner
since 1885, when Plaisanterie got home with Bst. 121bs.
Fillies like these are a satire on the five pound “ allowance
for sex ” in weight-for-age races.
• w • ’1)
It Was remarked the, Australian bookies never
died, but all at once the first generation appeared to slide
off—though only a few died. The Thompsons—ho w many ?
—Branch, Gough, Goyder, Fagan, VVoclier, and all the
etceteras.
# * *
The S. M. Herald’S special reporter on the
totalisator;— “ Why does not the owner back the horse
on the totalisator to the same extent as-he would with
the bookmaker ? For the simple reason that he cannot
get the money on in time without spoiling the market for
himself. . . . The public, instead of dealing with the
bookmakers, will keep its money until the day of the
race, and will put it in pounds on the machine. . . .
The owner cannot make use of the totalisator to any
great extent, for it must he remembered that the machine
fixes its own odds, and to back a horse heavily only means
decreasing the dividend in the event of a win 1”
# # *
Hamilton (Vic.) Spectator publishes a florid
leading article, adorned with scraps of poetry—the same
sort of poetry you always see—concerning the beauties and
glories of hunting. There is a quaint, old-world atmos-
phere about this screed ; it is suggestive of Hinglaud,
where the nation raves about the ’orse and the ’ound,
and the crowd in red coats meets on the squire’s lawn on
a cloudy morning, and gallops wildly through the corn,
and pounds madly over the turnips, while the pool
farmer smiles an agonised smile at the destruction ot his
crops by his “betters,” and the grinning bumpkin
touches his forelock to the crowd as it goes by. The nist
idea of the true-born Englishman when he gets into a new
land is to organise a hunt-club, and gallop some wretched
animal to death across country, but somehow, in spite ot
all his efforts, the sport doesn’t flourish much in Austra-
lia. It never does flourish in a democratic country.
Wherever the farmer has sufficient vigour to prevent a
gang of howling strangers rushing across his crops foi
their own amusement, and, instead of grovelling to them,
meets them at the front gate with a pitchfork or a gun
and tells them to go to blazes, then hunting herrings and
tame deer is played out.
* * *
George and Ik6 are twin brothers, and novice
runners. Ike is the faster, so George entered in a certain
promoter's handicaps, and ran unsuccessfully till he got
a good mark. Then Ike took his place and won. The
brothers are so alike, that none can readily tell which is
which;
* * *
Sixty miles a week and complete rest on Sunday
is considered “ the fair thing” for the ’bus horse. The
Sydney ’Bus Co. runs each horse from 12 to 15 miles
daily. The wooden blocks are the severest of all road
material to horse-flesh. Some of the poor slaves are
worn out in a year. The average good horse lasts five
years, the hardiest (just an odd one or two) last eight
and even ten years. Every three months the Co. sends a
contingent of cripples to Camperdown saleyards.
# * *
The pet sport of Purves, Q.C. ; is pigeon*
shooting. He rarely misses the weekly meetings of Mel-
bourne Gun Club, where he shoots under the nom-de-fuml
of “ Gundagai.” He is a far better lawyer than shot, and
when his gun won't shoot straight he occasionally, as
sometimes happens in court, loses his temper. On one
such occasion “ Gundagai’s ” bully got the bettet of him,
and the witness—no, the gun We itieari—was. promptly
smashed up.
LOST AGAIN!
Lost again ! Although he had b ‘en told it
A dozen times, and always liked the horse,
He wouldn’t take the tip, and, now, behold it
Pulls off the race! His cursed luck, of course;
(1 know a crowd of men, but haven’t struck
A case in which it wasn’t “cursed luck.”)
Lost again ! They bought a Guide and reckoned
’Twas clear as mud the winner ccfuldn’t win.
They knew' a tout who made ’em back the second —
My word! If that had oidy cantered in !
Were aunts but uncles. What an awful dif.
Is represented by the well-worn “if.”
Lost.again ! Dick took it in a “double,”
A “ double ” for a thou., with Ikey Mo ;
The other cert, broke down, and burst the bubble;
And then, at last, he went for So-and-so.
(How wondrous strange that they who really knovJ
Should change their minds, and go for So-and-so)!
Lost again ! She sent a pound to “ Adams,”
And bought a ticket in his biggest sweep ;
But, like adot of speculative madams,
Forgot to look before she dared to leap :
Unversed in odds, it gave her much surprise
To find her ! * jimmy ” didn’t scoop a prize.
Lost again ! the old, familiar chorus,-
But we, like sheep, must let the shearers shear,
This Cup is run : another lies before us ;
We hope to find the “deadest bird ” next year.
No bird defunct, in all the world, has yet
Been half as dead as that we mean to get.
Melbourne.


f
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
JEl.eggia'tejreca.
The ONLY INFALLIBLE REMEDY for
BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
mmm
GOLD MEDAL
CURED OVER 100,000 SUFFERERS.
IT RELY HERBAL, RECOGNISED BY THE FACULTY, PRAISED BY THE PRESS, UNEXCELLED, AND
PATRONISED BY SUFFERERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
X3ISCOV3E3RE3D an.d RB GrIS T DEI lOIJEI IO b y
SOLD MEDAL
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
SWORN TESTIMONY.
Statutory
'Jllll
Declaration.
JTHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows ;—
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Hassinussen’s
PU-RELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
PILES,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiduon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of. Nervous Debility of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.—
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir,—This is to certify that
your Alfaline Lock Cure Pills cured me of a very serious blood
disease, after many doctors had failed. — John Reynolds,
Chappel-st., Leichhardt. Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me un,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen —I am pleased to inform you that your
Alfaline Remedies acted most wonderful in my case. I consider
the great virtues you claim for them have been entirely sub-
stantiated, both in my case and in several of my family and acquaint-
ances, to whom I have recommended their use. I consider they
are far more efficacious than any remedy yet brought before
the public, and the Victorians will be pleased when they hear
that you have established a Depot at 150 Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.— Edward Drew, Storekeeper, 51 Barkly-st, Ballarat.
To Herr Rassm .ssen. —Your remedy completely cured my
chest, I shall always be grateful to you.— F. Bueman, 22 Market-
street, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. —A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —Your wonderful Alfaline
Hair and Skin Beautifier not only prevented my hair falling off.
but it actually made the hair grow where it had completely dis-
appeared.— J. Coleman, Lounge Hotel, Bourke-st., Melbourne.
Herr Rassmussen. —Dear Sir, —One single bottle of your
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills completely cured me of a very
severe attack of asthma and cough.— P. H. Kimm, Parer’s
Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have found your Alfaline Liver
and Kidney Pills most invaluable for the Liver and Kidneys,
also for Indigestion. I have always recommended their to
other sufferers : I have found them to be worth their weight
in gold.— George Want, Railway Crescent, Bowral, N.S.W.
Sole Proprietor,
HERR RABSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Banish Herbalist,
AUTHOR OF THE
“NATURAL DOCTOR.”
Awarded Gold Medal for his
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
AND
Honorably Mentioned in the ‘‘Centennial History of
H. S- Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Ajfaline Vitality Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for
Nervous Diseases, Lost Vitality, and Errors of Youth.
Bo t x ' s “ 6s - and 12s - Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. Od. Special
Powerful Course, 435. Od. 1
Mains Loci Fills,
A Guaranteed Cure for Blood Diseases, Sores,
Strictures, Discharges,
Boxes—6s. and 12s. Posted duty free now. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d Snecial
Powerful Course, 435. 6d. 1
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.
Guaranteed Costiveness and the Liver and Kidneys. Boxes posted, Is. 6d.,
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis and Colds
posted, 35., 65., and 235. fid.
Boxes,
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills,
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff
Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s. and 235. fid.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples and Freckles
for Beautifying the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and fis.
and wonderful
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning Grev and falling off Posted
! nnrl fis ■ ® UOLlu i
Herr Bassmussen’s Wonderful Porous Plaster, Is Posted, Is, 3d
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
we 1-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary .1 estimomals which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.’’-Sydney Evening
~ Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected bv his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
tteputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
“° US , p^ lent . s wh ° m Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.’ Centennial History of N.S.W,”
w e have neen shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
, I A Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
Truth TTifW Pn f . r6q , uire any additional praise from
iruih. His Heibal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
ti ‘‘Hwr Rassmusscn we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
Victoria ?. he > adin S People of N.S. wiles,
v ictona, and Queensland. —Cooktovvn Courier (Q.).
It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
neatly 10 years. —Sydney Sunday Times,
A REAL MAN OF MARK.
Herr Rassmussen’s Cures are so remarkable that we
make no apology for referring to some of them. Mr.
Rarnsden s case is the most wonderful, and his remedies
cured him in six weeks, after many Sydney doctors
gave him up. A gentleman in this district, wln/has been
-he demo ? Dyspepsia 'for more than two
over ’ 6 yin ? several , doctors ” with no benefit what-
evei, is recovering under Herr Rassmussen’s Herbal
Remedies. Herr Rassmussen possesses undoubted skill and
we wish him a long life to continue his useful mission in the
NS W f BUffermg hun,anit y-’’“Kangaroo Valley Pioneer
A JUST REWARD.
“Herr Rassmussen, of whose famous Herbal Reme-
dies everybody has heard, soon became known by
the wonderful cures effected by his remedies, of which
he has numerous tokens of gratefulness inclnrUno-
beautiful Hold Medal, brought him into the front rank of
botanic scientists. We have seen and examined letters from
all paits of the world—are assured that he has saved a world
of- utfenng and cured people of many complaints, after they
had given up all hope.”— The Australian Workman. Y
Sydney, 9th January, 1892.
WHO IS RASSMUSSEN?
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. We have sufficient
pioof tluit his Remedies have cured thousands. He was
awarded a Cold Medal for his Alfaline Remedies and he is
author of some valuable Medical Works. We hope he will
be as successful in Victoria as he has been in New South
Wales.’ -The Essenden and Flemington Chronicle and
North Melbourne Advertiser.— lst July, 1892.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a skilled botanist.”—Launceston
Daily Telegraph, Tasmania. Launceston
Testimonials.
u n Parliament House, Sydney.
Heir Rassmussen, Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
nave experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Nervous
Debility, which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia. ’
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and Nervous
Diseases Varicocle, Piles Nervous Debility, Lost Vitality, Errors of
Youth, Barrenness, and all Irregularities of the System, a guaranteed
preventative avalnst disease of any Kind. Ordinary course -nl «ii
posted Special powerful double course, 48s. 6.1! 7osteT Boxes at
OS. tillCl I zs.
Chief Head Depot:
547 GEOBG-E STDRZEiET,
SYDNEY.
WT MAIN LABORATORY.
Victorian Head Depot:
150 BOUBKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Ballarat Branch Depot:
Corner Bridge and Main Streets.
Remedies sent Duty Free.
South Australian Head Depot:
154 RUN DLE STREET,
ADELAIDE.
Remedies sent Duty Free.
Queensland Head Depot:
Q-UEEIT STJR E s
BRISBANE.
Urnu , clics_sent Duly Free.
THE GENUINE ALFA LINE REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE
“ Tile Watural Doctor.”
A Valuable and Interesting HERBAL WORK which contains much useful advice. Posted, Is.
May be obtained from all Depots,
OBTAINED EBOM THE ABO VRMENTIONEI) DEPOTS.
Important.
Always send money by PO. Order, and register all letters containing same. All
strictly confidential. Remedies sent unobserved. “The Alfaline Medical (!uid‘
receipt of addressed and id. stamped-envelope. 11 n( ■
All correspondence
sent free
on


Are unequaled for the cure of constipation,
dyspepsia, jaundice, bilious troubles, liver com-
plaints, sick headache, and colds. Being purely
vegetable and without mineral drug of any
kind, their use is attended with no injurious
consequences. Though radical in effect, they
are mild in operation, and, therefore, the
Favorite Family Aperient
their delicate coating of sugar and gelatine
making them peculiarly acceptable to both
sexes and all ages. Ayer’s Pills are recom-
mended by leading physicians and are famed
the world over for their remarkable cleansing
properties, not only on the stomach and bowels,
but on the blood and other fluids of the body.
As an after-dinner Pill, to assist the process of
digestion, they are invaluable. No traveler,
either by land or sea, should fail to be provided
with
.Ayer’s Pills,
PREPARED BY
Or. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors.
BROQME’S'MUSIC
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct,
df
or,
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
569. Maggie Murphy's Home.
585. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in C.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 in F,
618. Remember now thy Creator.
619 Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
672. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. The Country Wedding Barn Dance
THE HOLBOKN MUSIC STORES,
15 Holborn, London, E.C., ENGLAND,
ivery class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock,
low to Learn “The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is.
Est. 1845] trade supplied. | Est. 1845
an also be obtained from any local music store 01
bookseller.
SC's Maiglbckche
USTKV LOHS £
■•. if
LOHS E*S
MMGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY-
PERFUME
TOILETSOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all Vyigly class'pcrfumer's.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
Perfeet Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK.
d
fd
f
df
d
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
FOR TRAVELLERS,
MALTED MILK is made from vhe
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickl)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for in-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk,
, —Lancet, April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate,
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane,
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
A pure and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-parasitic and slightly alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth where decay originates, removes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2s. 9 A. per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes rod or grey hair a permanent Brown or
Black, Is. Ask' any dealer in perfumery for
Rowlands’arlicles,of 20,Uatton Garden,London.
Real enjoyable smoke, G N U N Darlings.
Nothing smokes like a G N U N Darling.
All tobacconists sell GNUN Darlings.
Cool, mild and sweet. 6NUN Darlings.
Kaiser William smokes G N U N Darlings.
“German
Syrup”
For Coughs & Colds.
John F. Jones, Bdom, Tex., writes’
I have used German Syrup for the
past six years, for Sore Throat,
Cough, Colds, Pains in the Chest
and Bungs, and let me say to any-
one wanting such a medicine —
German Syrup is the best.
B.W. Baldwin, Carnesville,Tenn.,
writes : I have used your German
Syrup in my family, and find it the
best medicine I ever tried for coughs
and colds. I recommend it to every-
one for these troubles.
R. Schmalhausen, Druggist, of
Charleston, 111.,writes: After trying
scores of prescriptions and prepara-
tions I had on my files and shelves,
without relief for a very severe cold,
which had settled on my lungs, I
tried your German Syrup. It gave
me immediate relief and a perma-
nent cure. ®
G. G. GREEN, Sole Manufacturer,
Woodbury, New Jersey, U. S. A.
ANDREW USHER Sc CO.’S WHISKIES.
NOTICE.
The undersigned have been appointed Attorneys
under power to take proceedings against any
person infringing Messrs. Andrew Usher and
Co. ! s Labels and Trade Marks as under :
Andrew Usher & Co.’s
m
OLD VATTED GLENLIVET WHISKY,
AND
“ Usher’s Special Reserve.”
BLAKE «£ KIKKALL, Solicitors,
120 WILLIAM-ST., MELB
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
3
h&D & jßOtyr
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
zv-Puy&S'<r?PvC>
c/<cn.o f z4/s~ '■
M
S<rrH£j Jm
jM
Lnnr.fi
St- John’s Works, London W.C.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVWRfIR
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“l think them such very
good stays, and those you scut for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON.” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.E.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty m
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
olaremont, Hastings, England.
—— —.— • —-----
| Relief from Cough in 10 Minutes.
/man's '
JB at s am
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, COUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, to.
ID THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE,
Immediately It is taken Coughing
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON, (i.N.R. Office, MlleeU, Go. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam eflectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.— July, 1891.
’ Sold by all Chemists at Is. ltd. and 2s. 91.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, Lngland.
Wholesale Agents Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Book of jKTa.-t-ca.i-e.
fd
Eoolv of Nature-
BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Mariagf
Guide. —A full and explicit explanation of th l
structure and uses of the organs cf life and generation ir
man and woman, intended especially for the married
or those intending to marry, and who conscientiously
and honestly desire to inform themselves upon the in ten'
and nature of conjugal pleasures and duties, to which is
added A COMPLETE MEDICAL TREATISE upon al:
diseases of the generative organs, whether resulting from
infection or abuse, with much other valuable and highly
important information, illustrated with more than fifty
engravings, fully depicting the mysterious process of
gestation, from the time of conception to the period of
delivery. No such complete panorama of the mysteries
of human production has ever before been given to the
world, by D. Lafayette M. Byrn, M.D., price 3/6, post
4/-. The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 7/6. The Fruits of Philosophy or Private Companion
for Young Married People, 1/-, post 1/2. Mrs. Besant’s
Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2. Aristotle, complete, 3/6,
post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1/6, post 1/9. Marriage as it was,
as it is, and as it should be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, by
post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book, extra large, 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, Thought Heading, Mesmeric Entertain-
ments, &c., price 1/6. Dancing without a master—Ball-
room Guide and Self-instructor, by Prof. Peltzer, 1/3.
“ Every Man his own Schoolmaster, or How to
Educate One’s Self, illustrated ; price 1/6.
Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship, Love, Dress,
Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
“ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, their use and abuse, in
health and disease, from infancy to old age, with the
treatment of all their derangements, for every' man’s own
private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
colored plates, by Df. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/,-
post free. It. BEAR, Central Book Depot, 16 Park
S SYDNEY.
GRQTH
PAPER-HANGINGS,
Paints.
WALLPAPERS moM
529 George
k Brlckf/eld Hill . —-
'ROLL
Professor pauL
Health, Strength and Manhood Restored!
Cure for all. A thorough Systematic and Scientific Cure
for £l. Sent to any address. Three months' supply.
New Life & Energy
E3T
£1
Vitality Restored
Nervous, Mental and Physical Debility, Lost Manhood,
Rheumatism, Gout, Chronic and Wasting Diseases, the
result of youthful indiscretions, etc., permanently cured.
Time-honoured and reliable remedy. Used by eminent
men throughout the world with success. Personally, t
have cured thousands. Where it fails cure is hopeless!
Acknowledged great Nerve and Brain Tonic—one trial will
suffice. Sample Box (month’s supply), 7/6. £l-note or
stamps. Register letters. Prof. PAUL, Specialist,
Box 1081 G.P.0., SYDNEY. Late Acting-Chief
Consulting Physician to the Australian Medical and
Surgical Infirmary. Twenty Years’ experience._ Hun-
dreds of references. Interviews arranged. Advice and
instructions free.
BOOKSI BOOKS! BOOKS I
■Sought mid Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
■ 428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
■ The Coonamhle Independent.
A live radical newspaper
—AND—
GOOD lIP - Ol IiTKI AIIVEUTISEIt
| CON MOOY ai d HUGH MACDONALD .. Proprietors,
Cook amble, Castle beach River,
Billy’s “Square Affair.”
A Sydney larrikin ballad, by a just-discovered genius,
describing how the captain of the “Gory Bleeder’' push
sought his affinity. The ballad is to be sung slightly
through the nose to some old tune that fits it.
Long Bill, the captain of the push, was tired of
his estate,
And wished to change his life and win the love of
something “ straight,”
’Twas rumour’d that the Gory B.’shad heard Long
Bill declare
That he would turn respectable and wed a
“square affair.”
He craved the kiss of innocence; his spirit longed
to rise ;
The “ Crimson Streak,” his faithful “ piece,” grew
hateful in his eyes ;
(And tho’, in her entirety, the Crimson Streak
“was there,”
I grieve to state the Crimson Streak was not a
“ square affair.”)
He wanted clothes, a masher suit, he wanted boots
and hat,
His girl had earned a quid or two —he wouldn’t
part with that,
And so he went to Brickfield Hill, and from a
draper there
He “ shook ” the proper kind of togs to fetch a
“square affair.”
Long Bill went to the barber’s shop and had a
shave and singe,
And from his narrow forehead combed his darling
Mabel fringe;
Long Bill put on a “ square kut ” and brushed his
boots with care,
And roved about the Gardens till he mashed a
“ square affair.”
Tho’ Bleeders deemed the square affair’s white
innocence a myth,
She differed much from other girls that Bill had
travelled with ;
She had the lisp of - innocence, blue eyes, and
golden hair—
A grand and proper little piece was Billy’s square
affair.
She was a toney servant-girl from somewhere on
“the Shore;”
She dressed in style that suited Bill—he could not
wish for more.
While in her guileless presence he ceased to chew
or swear,
He knew the kind of barrack that can fetch a
square affair.
To thus desert his donah old was risky and a
sin,
And ’twould have served him right if she had
caved his garret in.
The Gory Bleeders thought it too, and warned
him to take care
In case the Crimson Streak gut scent of Billy’s
square affair.
He took her to the “stalls;” ’twas dear, but Billy
said “ Wot odds !”
He couldn’t take his square affair amongst the
crimson gods.
They wandered in the park at night, and hugged
each other there —
But, ah! the Crimson Streak got wind of Billy’s
square affair !
“The blank and space and stars!” she yelled;
“ the nameless crirnson dash!
I’ll smash the blanky crimson and his square
affair, I’ll smash ” —
In short, she drank and raved and shrieked and
tore her crimson hair,
And swore to murder Billy and to pound his
square affair.
And so one summer evening, as the day was
growing dim,
She watched her bloke go out and foxed his square
affair and him.
That night the park was startled by the shrieks
that rent the air—
The “ Streak ” had gone for Billy and for Billy’s
square affair.
The “gory” push had foxed the Streak, they
foxed her to the park,
And they, of course, were close at hand to see the
bleedin’ lark ;
,V (top arrived in time to hear a “gory B.” declare •
“ Cor blar-me ! here’s the Red Streak foul of Billy’s
square affair.”
Now, Billy scowls about the Rocks, his manly
beauty marr’d,
And Billy’s girl, upon her ’ead, is doin’ six
months ’ard ;
Bill’s swivel eye is in a sling, his heart is in
despair,
And in the Sydney Orspital lies Billy’s square
affair.
Sydney, August, ’92.
* A respectable girl.
“Gladstone,” said John Bright, “goes
coasting along, turning up every creek and ex-
ploring it to its source before he can proceed on
his way ; but I have no talent for detail. I bold
my course from headland to headland through the
great seas. ”
Announcement in a Newcastle (N.S VV.)
paper; —•
Stuffenheim— Spoopendyke. At Christchurch Cathe-
dral, Henry, only son (&c.) to Maria Ann, second daughter
of J. Spoopendyke, Esq., M.G.
There are K.C.M.G.’s, C.M.G.’s and M.G.’s.
M.G. stands for mail-guard.
A young man presented himself at Sydney
Bankruptcy Court the other day and wanted to
tile his schedule in forma pauperis. He was told
he must first produce certain necessary fees for
advertising, &c., and as the money was not forth-
coming he went away declaring his estate
had got to be sequestrated anyway. Next day he
returned smiling and planked down the pre-
liminary fees, explaining that he had just mar-
ried a girl with a bit of stuff ” the same morning.
G. H. Reid was conversing on the
verandah of s northern hotel with a wealthy
client whose case, involving thousands, he had
just brought to a successful issue, when the hotel-
keeper came out and said, “ there are six men in
the bar, Mr. Reid, who say they are going to have
a drink at your expense.” Looking in at the
men, George found that they were six of his
client’s witnesses. “Yes,” said he, they are
decent fellows—give ’em what want. My
friend here, too, will shout for them. tlis client
(richer that day by some .£5000), after a protracted
wrestle with his native caution, replied, ‘Yuli,
I suppose I must, but, mind ye, it mustna exceed
thrippenoe a imm.”


Government Notices
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 1, 1892.
r|LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govkknwknt Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER Ifi.
Bridge, Leycester Creek, road Lismore to Hang-
ing Rock, at Walsh’s Crossing.
Bridge, Dartbrook Creek, road Scone to Merrivva
Concrete Walls for Bridge, Doughboy Creek,
road Tarrago to Braidwood
Bridge, Cuttagai Lake, road Bega to Bermagui
Erection of Pig and Calf Pens, Woolgoolga and
Cotf’s Harbour
Construction of Iron Grill over yards, Lockup
Gaol, Balranald
Construction of Timber Horseboat for Bega River,
on road Tathra to the Wapengue. (Fresh
tenders.)
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Moulamein.
(Time extended.)
Manufacture, within the colony, and Supply of
Suspension Bolts, &c., for Bridges
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 30.
Bridge, Macquarie River, at Gin Gin, road
Trangie to Collie
Construction of Concrete Arch Culvert for Gar-
diner’s Road, Botany, at No. 7 Dam
Erection of Strong Room, Lands Office, Armi-
dale
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7.
Supply of 175,000 tons Steel Rails, to be manu-
factured in New South Wales.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14.
Manufacture, &c., of Thirty seven Coils of Gal-
vanised Crucible Steel Wire Rope
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bullallaba, road
Braidwood to Cooma
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Medical.
Mrs, Wood’s
Famous English Remedy
for
Removinglrregularityandall
0 >struct'o;i from whatever
cause pvicnouc cue use of pernicious drugs) is the
only recognised positive and safe one known to
medical science. Consult an eminent lady
specialist practising in Melbourne for more than
20 years, I have important information to convey
to you. Consultation and full particulars by
letter free. Letters from all parts strictly private
and promptly answered. Over 300 testimonials
open for inspection and investigation.
Address
Mrs, G. WOOD,
144 Elizabeth Street. MELBOURNE.
ES
A BRILLIANT COMPLEXION
Anti Soft White Huiids.
PIMPLES, FRECKLES, BLOTCHES, BLACKHEADS,
And all Skin Eruptions
V anigli like Magic
By a few applications of
Professor Devon’s Complexion potion.
The most wonderful cure of the 19th century. No more
sallow or dull complexions. Not only will the Lotion
clear the face of all that is «isightly, but one bottle will
restore the face to the softest and purest maidenly loveli-
ness. Sixty thousand bottles sold in Paris and London
monthly. Beware of worthless counterfeits—the}'
are both useless and dangerous.
Sent carriage paid and full directions on receipt of
ss. ttd., Stamps or P. 0.0.
Prof. DEVON.
20 Castlerbaoh Street (City), SYDNEY.
Use Batho’s Baking Powder.
Use Batho’s Baking Powdei*,
iil-order with large bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps.
f
A.M., M.D., C.M., P.R.C.S., Ed.; M.R.C.S., Eng.,
201 MACQUARIE STREET NORTH 201
(OPPOSITE PARLIAMENT HORSE),
SISTiO KTEY.
Dr. PATERSON lias been engaged for over TWENTY YEARS in the STUDY and PRACTICE
—OF—
CHRONIC, NERVOUS
AND
SPECIAL DISEASES.
Of Meit-stud Women in the leading Medical Schools and Hospitals of Great Britain, Paris, Berlin and
Vienna,' and in private practice. formerly House Surgeon to the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary,
Maternity and Lock Hospitals. No medical man advertising in these colonies has medical degrees
which can be compared with his. Such eminent qualification ■, together with his recognised straight-
'otWard treatment, have naturally gained for him the reputation cf being the
i
Only Legally Qualified Doctor
Advertising in these colonies who combines with special knowledge Honest Treatment, as may easily
tie ascertained by applying to ahy leading paper in the colony. No diseases cause so much misery and
distress as those included in my speciality.
ALL MEN", YOUNG AND OLD,
Suffering from the results of early follies or excesses, indigestion, foul month, oostiveness, palpitation,
singing and pains in the ears and head, specks before the eyes, giddiness, weakened memory, pains in
the back and chest, varicocele, diseases of the bladder, kidneys dr liver, rheumatism, impure blood,
weakening discharges, impaired vigour, sterility, premature decay, stricture, nervousness, groundless
fears, bashfulness, lassitude, and NERVOUS DEBILtTV, should lose no time in consulting him,
since lie leas, by long experience and thorough investigation of their nature, discovered the safest
treatment for their permanent cure. I n many oases the Consultation Fee (by letter) of
£1 Is all tliat is Required.
—
Persons residing at a distance may be treated at their owili homes, without any interruption to their
business, by giving a full and clear description of their symptoms, and the necessary medicines will be
forwarded to them. On receipt of 2s. (Id. he will forward his book on the “ Male Generative Function
in Health and Disease,” or of Is., his book on “Nervous Debility.”
a? Hi: ce i;3etb'ra.ted
EKCE-L
ALL OTHERS!
FIRST PRIZES
r-AU.*-
/ • T¥ X 33 X TI O XT s
ties aumnestt
OMMK* 3E3
Wholesale Depot' r
23! CLARENCE-ST
SYDNEY..
THE GREAT SMOKE OF THE I)AY!
PYRAMID 3-STAR TOBACCO.”
Awarded Ist and Special Government Prize
AT THE
Grand Metropolitan Exhibition of the Agricultural Society of New South Wales.
"BUDS,” “HAPPY MOMENTS,” “FIGARO’S,” “KEY WEST” and "BUFFALO” CIGARS,
Sole Agents: MCCARTHY «t CO.
Everything in connection with bite Trade stocked. Storekeepers and Tobacconists supplied on most
Reasonable Terms. File the Address :
McCARTEtY & CO., To oacco IMCercliantß^
609 GEORGE STREET (HAYM VRKET), SYDNEY.
. MARSHALL’S
TONIC NERVINE
ALL CHEMISTS
JCIVES NERVE POWER^
Strange indeed thal-H—~
A
'/Wl
dll!
like S APO U O' should
'make everything so bright, but
"A needle clothes others.and is itselj:
naked’.Try i h in yojj r next house-cleaning
What folly it would be to cut grass with a pair of scissors! Yet peo-
ple do equally silly things every day. Modern progress has grown up
from the hooked sickle to the swinging scythe and thence to the lawn
mower. So don’t use scissors!
But do you use SAPOLIO ? If you don’t you are as much behind the
age as if you cut grass with a dinner knife. Once there were no soaps.
Then one soap served all purposes. Now the sensible folks use one soap
in the toilet, another in the tub, one soap in the stables, and SAPOLIO
tor all scouring and house-cleaning.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
SURGEON LANGSTON,
M.R.C.S., Eng.
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff,
1 loyal Engineers, registered in England
and Australia, and authorised hy Act of
Parliament to practise In all the branches
of Medicine and Surgery, is now permanently
loea'cd at
NO. 121 COLDNS STREET. MELBOURNE.
Dei'ig convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
men 1 feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon
to publish my address, so that all in need of
medical skid may have the benefit of toy
experience. Consultation is free to all, but
when £1 is enclosed, acaieful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicines
sent.
My lifo-long experience, extending over
40 years, and practical method of treatment
insure a speedy and permanent cure in all
Private, Nervous, Chronic, Skin, and Special
Disc sc s. No experimenting, both Sexes
Consult Confidentially.
NERVOUS DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS,
LACK OF ENERGY. FAILING
MEMORY,
PHYSICAL DECAY.
m
W
Arising from T. i • i r-rt- iCiv, Excess or linin’)'- poo, producing some of Ui • following effects—Nervousness,
D liilily. Dimness nl Mglit. E df-Dislrust. Defective Memory, Pimp os on tli 1 Face, Aveision to ti e Society of
I eninles. Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence, Gloominoss, Desfondenev, Barrenness, TJnfitnoss to Murry,
Melancholy. !>..spi-psia, Stunled Development, Lost Manhood, Night fosse.--, Inins in the Buck, Varicocele,
etc., treated with success. Safe’y and Privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forma, affecting Body, Nose Throat Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, O'.d Sites, Ulcers,
Painful Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Walt, Bemedies. S’iffaud
Swollen Joints and lih-mnntisto the r salt of Blood Poison, ftf fBB EiD*. f oft feeling bniu-h of earth-like
worms -VARBCmiKIiI!, B-4 <' GJIS 1 BSB.BC WITHOB-'T OPKItATION by Surgeon
Langston’s Electric Q i -drant with double compiess and iiippait, the only safe and rational treatment for
Varicocele, pi ice «6‘2. CVnsfitiuiona Inr A q n red \\ oak nesses of hot h Sexes t>o h d successful IV. 11l iiptui-e
instantly relieved and p rmanently cured. IFSfn, Epilepm .or faking sickness r; dually cured." I use only the
best remedies. Avoid unskilful inctciulciN end i|ioei«mn inomised rure-alln—they
are useless, and often dangerous. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are tieated with
skill in a respect nl manner; and knowlp ; what to do, A T o &'l\|ieriLiiruf>i are iiiudo. Home
I'teatment. Persons ailing at a distance can bo successfully treated at home,
*'*»»»© r<M|nl ring- Itmuoiluite Treatment can by forwarding-particulars of their case
and £l, receive a coarse of treatment by return po t. Before toiitiolini; rour riiKO ©!««•
hlhmc, foiiMill tlio <3Sld and Sisu-eesafnl 'speccali-c. MT BidJ 1181,.l A'<S.*iTOA’. Age
and experience important. A friendly letter or rail may save fntmc suffering and shame, and
add golden years to life, lo morrhry or iioi.«onnii« di-oi'«-s sited.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.S., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
N.B.—The Only Qualified Niirgeen piaetising as a Specialist who has held fworernment
A |t|ioiiiliitentN.
W CONSULTATION FREE*
Note the fease with which some men can be
prosecuted.
Sir Mat. Davies looks better than ever—
magnificently fresh-coloured, as if braced up by
golden shower-baths as of yore.
The N.S.W. new list of Justices of the
Peace is, after all, no worse than a previous one
which included the names of two felons and the
purloiner of a cheque.
Twin brothers, named Wilson, aged 38,
drowned themselves in the Yarra, last week.
One said, “ We came into the world together and
will go out together.”
Cabled that William Morris, the Socialist
poet, has declined the British Laureateship—
offered him, of course, as a bribe. It was Morris
who wrote the" funeral-song of the workman killed
at the Trafalgar Square socialistic meeting by the
police.
Spagnoletti; “ Almost the moment after 1
had read on a newspaper window last Saturday,
‘ All convicted except one,’ Hopetoun and Kintore
flashed past in their carriages, for the Derby, with
the outriggers, outriders, and all the other tom-
foolery, ”
The mental calibre of the hog-raising
Deniliquin jury that tried the Broken Hill strikers
may be gauged by the fact that they found
Butcher guilty of conspiracy all by himself! It
took a judge to point out to them that it takes
two to make a conspiracy.
Labouchere’s uncle, Taunton, was in the
House of Lords, and an M.P. thought it was
Labby’s father. He said to Labouchere :“ I
heard your father speak, in the House of Lords,
just now.” Labby: Thanks—he has been dead
two years, and I didn’t quite know where he was.”
The news of the heavy sentences on the
“ Barrier Conspirators ” was received by certain
shoddy Sydney people with uproarious applause.
One man who had two big dogs in a vehicle out-
side a leading cafe actually rushed in and hilari-
ously treated his canine friends to some extra
biscuits to celebrate the “victory.’*
Dr. Garran resigned his seat in N.S.W.
Leg. Council because he contracted witli the
Government to preside over the Court of Arbitra-
tion and Conciliation ; but Mr. Alick. Brown may
retain his seat though he has accepted an office
of profit under the Crown worth, it is said, ,£5OO a
year. The Constitution says a disqualified person
who shall presume to sit or vote in either House
shall forfeit the sum of .£5OO for each offence.
Some one to the rescue of the Constitution - for a
consideration !
Apropos of the unseemly arrest of Attorney
Jones —rather indefinite, this—in that holy of
holies —the N.S.W. Parliamentary Refreshment
Room, on the ground that as a stranger he had no
business there —it is said that the mightily
offended Dan. O'Connor has been refused
President Lackey’s permission to take two ladies
in to the evening spread. What a prodigious
storm he might have raised had he secured the
desired authority, and the Sergeant-at-Arms had
whisked off his fair guests by order of Mister
Speaker ! Shade of Willyum Charliss Wint-
worth !
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co.,
whose goods are now acquiring a very extensive
sale in Australia, has recently extracted a humble
apology from a large English firm whose all-wool
goods proved, on examination, to be a shoddy
compound, 30 per cent, cotton. Dr. Jaeger’s Co.
produces materials made exclusively of wool, and
consequently more durable, cleaner and lighter
than almost every other description of clothing in
the market, as well as being much more healthy
than the loathsome compound of devil’s dust,
shoddy and cotton which is frequently traded off
as the finished effort of the sheep. Its goods are
made on the hygienic principles advocated by Dr.
Jaeger, and after a long struggle against the
prejudices of a public which had almost learned
to recognise the term “ pure wool ” as a solemn
warning that the article was only cotton and
ancient fluff, it has at last succeeded in convincing
the world that its clothing is all that it is
represented to be, and entirely free from adultera-
tion in any form.
A suspicion grows in N.S.W.- Parliament
that some members of the Dibits Cabinet are
riding for a fall on a labour question. It is bound
to come sooner or later; and sooner than later if
it can be managed by the advocates of a Coalition
Cabinet in which the Employers’ Union, Steam-
ship Owners’ Association, and Pastoralists’ Union
will be directly and only represented. ,
The Australasian published portraits of
Whippingdale Johnston, P.M. (of Broken Hvll),
Sleath and Ferguson. Johnston’s phiz is a neat
wood-engraving of a drawing by Tom Carrington;
while the pictures of the “ conspirators ” are re-
produced from photos, by a process that would
make an Apollo Belvidere look like a Chinese
burglar.


CLARKE’S PATENT “PYRAMID" & DOUBLE WICK FAIRY LIGHTS,
The
Burglar’s Horror#
THE
p
NIGHT
CLARKES
fa TR f DE
PYRAMID
MA'RK
THE SHADED PART
REPRESENTS THE PATENT
PLASTER FIRE-PROOF CASE.
For Burning in
Clarkes “Pyramid" Nursery Lamp.
CAUTION.
TO PREVENT BURGLARIES.-A
“Pyramid ” Night Light should be lighted in the
front and back of every house as soon as it is dark.
Housebreakers have the greatest dread of a light.
The police recommend a “ Pyramid ” Night Light
as the best safe-guard. Almost all the burglaries
perpetrated might have been prevented and much
VALUABLE PROPERTY SAVED, if this
simple and inexpensive plan had always been
adopted. The “Pyramid” Night Lights are
much larger and give DOUBLE THE LIGHT
of the common night lights, and are therefore
particularly adapted for this purpose. Manufac-
tured in Patent Eire-proof Plaster Cases. No
paraffin or other dangerous material used in their
manufacture.
*
m
e
Tsj^
f—
o
is
fil
I
df
d
EXACT SIZE OF LIGHT.
FOR IN AND OUT-DOOR ILLUMINATIONS.
Each Box contains 6 Double-Wick “FAIRY” Lights (burn 10 hours each), and Glass for burning in.
CLARKE’S PATENT “ FAIRY ” LAMPS.
FOR DECORATIVE LIGHTING, BALL AND DRAWING ROOMS, &c.
CXjARKK’S
NEWLY DESIGNED
“Pyramid” Nursery Lamp
FOOD WARMER,
With New Registered Pannikin,
INCLUDING
Burglar’s Horror Lamp
BURGLAR’S HORROR LAMP.
s »muri Vf 11*3;
I
ES
mm.
S^AiHID"FOO
BURGLAR’S HORROR LAMP.
CLARKE’S Improved PANNIKIN
(REGISTERED)
FOR USB WITH
CLARKE'S PYRAMID NURSERY LAMP.
By this invention any liquid food can be poured
out or drunk without scum or grease passing
through the spout, and prevents spilling when
poured into a Feeding Bottle, so objectionable
with all other Pannikins. These Pannikins will
fit all the old “Pyramid” Nursery Lamps, and
can be purchased separately.
N.B.—Ask for CLARKE’S PANNIKIN, and
see that his name and the registered number
(registered 91,241) is on the Pannikin, and Trade
Mark “Pyramid.” Clarke’s Patent PYRAMID
NIGHT LIGHTS are the only Lights suitable
for these Lamps.
SOLD BY ALL THE LEADING RETAIL HOUSES.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia: Francis Forrest & Co., 484 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—avoid cheap imitations.
Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
To Eat Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
Feel Well —Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Wolfe’s Schnapps has no injurious ingredients.
The Box Tree’s Love.
Long time beside the squatter’s gate
A great, grey box-tree, early, late,
Or shine or rain, in silence there
Had stood and watched the seasons faro.
Had seen the wind upon the plain
Caress the amber ears of grain,
The river burst its banks and come
Far past its bolt of mighty gum,
Had seen the scarlet months of drought
Scourging the land with fiery knout.
And seasons ill and seasons good
Had alternated as they would ;
The years were born, had grown and gone,
While suns had set and suns had shone,
Fierce flames had swept, chill waters drenched,
That sturdy yeoman never blenched.
The tree had watched the station grow,
The buildings rising row on row,
And from that point of vantage green,
Peering athwart its leafy screen,
The wondering soldier-birds had seen
The lumbering bullock-dray draw near,
Led by that swarthy pioneer,
Who, gazing at the pleasant shade,
Was tempted, dropped his whip and stayed,
Brought there his wanderings to a close,
Unloosed the polished yokes and bows ;
The bullocks, thankful for the boon,
Rang on their bells a merry tune,
The hobbles clinked, the horses grazed,
The snowy calico was raised,
The fire lit, the fragrant tea
Drunk to a sunset melody
Timed by the day before it died,
To waken on earth’s other side.
There ’twas beneath that box-tree’s shade
Fortune’s foundation-stone was laid ;
Cemented fast with toil and thrift
Stone upon stone was laid to lift
A mighty arch, commemorate
Of one who reached the goal too late.
That white-haired pioneer, with pride,
Fitted the keystone, then he died ;
His toil, his thrift, all to what boot ?
He gave his life for Dead Sea-fruit,
What did it boot his wide domain
Of feathered pine and sweeping plain,
Sand-ridge and turf? for he lay dead,
Another reigning in his stead.
His sons forgot him, but that tree
Mourned for him long and silently,
And o’er the old man’s lonely bier
Would, if he could, have dropped a tear ;
One other being only shared
His grief, one other only cared,
And she was but a six years’ maid
His grandchild who had watched him fade
In childish ignorance, and wept
Because the poor old grandad slept
So long a sleep and never came
To smile upon her at her game,
Or tell her stories of the fays
And giants of the olden days.
She cared, and as the seasons sped,
Linked by the memory of the dead,
They two, the box-tree and the child,
Grew old in friendship, and she smiled,
Clapping her chubby hands with glee,
When for her pleasure that old tree
Would shake his limbs, and let the light
Glance, in a million sparkles bright,
From off his polished olive cloak ;
Then would the infant gently stroke
His massive bole, and laughing try
To count the patches of the sky,
Betwixt his leaves, or in the shades
That trembled on the grassy blades
Trace curious faces, till her head
Of gold grew heavy, then he’d spread
His leaves to shield her, while lie droned
A lullaby, so softly toned
It seemed but as the gentle sigh
Of summer, as she floated by ;
While bird and beast grew humble-voiced
Seeing those golden ringlets moist
With dew of sleep. With one small hand
Grasping a grass stem for a wand,
Titania slept: Nature nor spoke,
Nor dared to breathe, until she woke.
The years passed onward, and perchance
The tree had shot his tufted lance
Up to the sky a few slow feet,
But one great limb grew down to greet
His mistress, who had ne’er declined
In love for him, though far behind
Her child-life lay, and now she stood
Waiting to welcome womanhood ;
She loved him always as of old,
Yet would his great roots grasp the mould,
And knotted branches grind and groan
To see her seek him not alone;
For lovers came and ’neath those boughs,
With suave conversing sought to rouse
The slumbering passion in a breast
Whose coldness gave an added zest
To the pursuit, but all in vain
They spoke the once, nor came again
Save one alone who pressed his suit
(Man-like, he loved forbidden fruit)
And strove to change her nay to yea
Until it fell upon a day
Once more he put his fate to proof
Standing beneath that olive roof,
And though her answer still was “no”
He, half incensed, refused to go,
Asking her, had she heart for none
Because there was some other one
Who claimed it all, whereon the maid
Slipped off her ring and laughing said
“ Look you, my friend, here now I prove
The truth of it, and pledge my love,”
And poised on tiptoe, touched a limb
That bent to gratify her whim ;
She slipped the golden circle on
A tiny branchlet, whence it shone
Mocking the suitor with its gleam,
A quaint dispersal of*his dream.
She left the trinket there, but when
She came to take it back again,
She found it not, nor though she knelt
Upon the scented grass, and felt
Among its roots, or parted sheaves
Could it be found, the box-tree held
Her troth for aye; his great form swelled
Until the bitter sap swept through
His veins, and gave him youth anew.
With busy fingers, lank and thin,
The fatal sisters sit and spin
Life’s web, in gloomy nursings wrapt,
Caring not when a thread is snapped,
What harm its severance may do —
Whether it strangleth one or two.
Alas, there came an awful space
Of time, wherein that sweet, young face
Grow pale, its sharpened outline pressed
Deep in the pillow, for a guest,
Unsought, unbidden, forced his way
Into the chamber where she lay.
’Twas Death !—outside the box-tree kept
Sad vigil, and at times he swept
His branches softly, as a thrill
Shot through his framework, boding ill
To her he loved, and so he bade
A birdfly ask her why she stayed.
The messenger, with glistening eye,
Returned, and said, “ The maid doth lio
Asleep. I tapped upon the pane,
She stirred not, so I tapped again.
She rests so silent on her bed
Tired, that I fear the maid is dead ;
For they have cut great sprays of bloom
And laid them all about the room.
-The scent of roses fills the air,
They nestle in her breast and hair,
Like snowy mourners, scented, sweet,
Around her pillow and her feet.”
“ Ah, me !” the box-tree, sighing, said ;
“My love is dead, my love is dead !”
And shook his brandies, till each leaf
Chorused his agony of grief.
They bore the maiden forth and laid
Her down, to rest where she had played
Amid her piles of forest spoil
In childhood ; now the sun-caked soil
Closed over her. “Ah !” sighed the tree,
“Mark how my love doth come to me.”
He pushed brown rootlets down and slid
Between the casket and its lid,
And bade them very gently creep,
And wake the maiden from her sleep.
The tiny filaments slipped down
And plucked the lace upon her gown ;
She stirred not when they ventured near,
And softly whispered in her ear.
The silken fibres gently press
Upon her lips a chill caress;
They wreathe her waist, they brush her hair
Under her pallid eyelids stare.
Yet all in vain ; she will not wake—
Not even for her lover’s sake.
The box-tree groaned aloud and cried :
“ Ah, me ! grim Death hath stole my bride.
Where is she hidden? Where hath flown
Her sml ? I cannot bide alone,
But fain would follow.” Then he called
And whispered to an ant that crawled
Upon a bough, and bade it seek
The white-ant colony, and speak
A message, where, beneath a dome
Of earth, the white queen hath her home.
She sent a mighty army forth
That fall upon thfe tree in wrath,
And, entering by a tiny hole,
Fill all the hollow of. his bole,
Through all its pipes and crannies pour,
Sharp at his aching heart-strings tore ;
Along his branches built a maze
Of sinuous, earthen-covered ways,
His smooth leaves shrunk, his sap ran dry,
The sunbeams laughing from the sky
Helped the ant workers at their toil,
Sucking all moisture from the soil.
Then on a night the wind swept down
And rustled mid the foliage brown.
The mighty framework creaked and groaned
In giant agony, and moaned,
Its wind-swept branches growing numb,
“ I come, my love; my love, I come.”
A gust more furious than the rest
Struck the great box-tree’s shivering crest
The great bole snapped across its girth,
The forest monarch fell to earth
With such a mighty rush of sound
The settlers heard it miles around.
While upward through the windy night
That faithful lover’s soul took flight.
The squatter smiled to see it fall.
He sent his men with wedge and maul
Who split the tree, but found it good
For nothing more than kindling-wood.
They marvelled much to find a ring
Asking themselves what chanced to bring
The golden circlet which they found
Clasping a branchlet firmly round ;
Foolish and blind, they could not see
The faithfulness of that dead tree.
BARCROFT H. BOAKE.
* Found among the papers of the late Barcroft H.
Boake—probably one of his first metrical efforts.
The Bulletin would like to see an Act
raising “ the age of consent ” to GO. It might
make women less sensitive on the subject of age.
“High clerical dignitaries say that the
Pope ‘ has lost his head.’” In other words—the
Infallible is dotty. The church supplies its own
satire.
Sir Henry Parkes is to receive £BOOO for
his “From Farmhouse,” &c. Longman (London)
is the speculator; Dymock (Sydney) offered
Parkes £2500 for the M. S. previously.
“ Faustina” reflecteth in Sydney D.T. :
“If all the knights of Arthur’s Court had been Sir
Galahads, that court would have lost considerably
in interest and colour,” And—ahem—population.
James Gordon Bennett’s new and magni-
ficent office for the New York Herald will
occupy a whole block. Behind arcade walls of
clear plate-glass the Herald’s presses will reel off
90,000 papers an hour, in full view of the public*
However, there won’t be any glass walls to the
office where the editor takes instructions from the
syndicate.
A Yankee skipper, who had been three
days in Newcastle, N.S.W., observed to a friend
that it was the first time he had ever been in a
town that was quite finished. “How’s that?”
asked a friend. “ Well,” said he, “ I’ve been here
three days now, and during the whole time I have
never yet heard the sound of a hammer, a chisel,
or trowel. I reckon the city must be about
finished.”
Under the gangway of a vessel lying at the
wharf is usually slung a strong netting called, in
sailor slang, a “ sheoak ” —to prevent drunken
men from falling into the water. One early morn-
ing recently the second mate of the Pathan (load-
ing wool at Newcastle) on looking over the side,
found several drunken firemen sleeping stertorously
in the net within three feet of the water. With the
assistance of a deck-hand he gradually lowered
the net till the eleven men were half-immersed, and
then discreetly retired to the quarter-dock. A
few seconds later a lot of scowling, semi-sobered
men, wet and bloodthirsty, clambered on deck and
began to look for the practical joker.


Wolfe’s Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
Latest novelties and styles for Ladies’
Eton Jackets, silk lined, made to measure on
shortest notice, .£3 3s. Braham and Mutch,
Tailors and Habit-makers, 75 King-street.
Nothing in modern times has been so copied as
Wolfe’s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
Premier Dibbs owes much of his success to
6NUN Darlings.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
FAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOFT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
ipoia
TOILET & NURSERY,
»af«
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
)••-
testimonials *
Mrs. LANGTRY.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other.”
(Sinned) LILLIE LANGTRY.
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
"I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best.”
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdme. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
“For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world.” ~
(Signed) MARIE ROZE
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Bov, A. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness is next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a largo sale in the United States. I am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(-Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England,.)
Writes in the Journal op Cutaneous Medicine ;
“ The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
urn
$Bl
as
m
1
%
%
i
W
i
jmr
In a Dry Season.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
£>raw a wire fence and a few ragged gums, and
add some scattered sheep running away from the
train. Then you’ll have the bush all along the
N.S. Wales Western line from Bathurst on.
The railway town mainly consists of a public-
house and a general store, with a square tank and
a schoolhouse on piles in the nearer distance. The
tank stands at the end of the school and is not
many times smaller than the building itself. It is
safe to call the pub. “ The Railway Hotel,” and
the stores “The Railway Stores,” with an “s.”
A couple of patient, ungroonied hacks are pro-
bably standing outside the shanty while their
masters are inside having a drink —several drinks.
Also it’s safe to draw a sundowner sitting listlessly
on a bench on the verandah, reading The Bul-
letin.
The “Railway Store” seems to exist only in
the shadow of the pub., and it is impossible to
conceive either as being independent of the other.
There is sometimes a small, oblong weatherboard
building, which, from its half-obliterated sign,
seems to have started as a rival to the Railway
Stores; but the shutters are up and the place
empty.
The only town I saw that differed much from
the above, consisted of a log-bark humpy with a
clay chimney, and a woman standing at the door
throwing out the wash up water.
By way of variety, the artist might make a
water-colour sketch of a fettler’s tent on the line,
with a billy hanging over the fire in front, and
three fettlers standing round, filling their pipes.
Slop sac suits, red faces and old-fashioned, flat-
brimmed hats, with wire round the brims, begin
to drop into the train on the other side of
Bathurst; and here and there a hat with three
inches of crape round the crown, which perhaps
signifies death in the family, and perhaps it doesn’t.
Sometimes, I believe, it only means grease under
the band. I notice that when a bushman puts
crape round his hat he generally leaves it there till
the hat wears out, or another friend dies. In the
latter case, he buys a new piece of crape. This
outward sign of bereavement usually has a jolly,
red face beneath it. Death is about the only
cheerful thing in the bush.
We crossed the Macquarie—a narrow, muddy
gutter with a dog swimming across, and three
goats interested.
A little further on we saw the first sundowner.
He carried a “royal Alfred,” and had a billy in
one hand and a stick in the other. He was dressed
in a tail-coat, turned yellow, a print shirt, and a
pair of moleskin trousers, with big, square calico
patches on the knees; and his old straw hat was
covered with calico. Suddenly he slipped his
swag, dropped his billy, and ran forward, boldly
flourishing the stick. 1 thought that he was mad,
and was going to attack the train, but he wasn’t;
he was only killing a snake.
Somebody told me that the country was very dry
on the other side of Nevertire. It is. I wouldn’t
like to sit down on it anywhere. The least horrible
spot in the bush, in a dry season, is where the
bush isn’t —where it has been cleared away and a
green crop is trying to grow. They talk of settling
people on the land ! Better settle in it. I’d
rather settle on the water; at least until some
gigantic system of irrigation is perfected in the
West.
Along about By rock we saw the first shearers.
They dress like the unemployed, but differ from
that body in their looks of independence. They
sat on trucks and wool-bales and the fence, watch-
ing the train, and hailed Bill, and Jim, and Tom,
and asked how those individuals were getting on.
Here we came across soft felt hats with straps
round the crowns and full-bearded faces under
them. Also, a splendid-looking black-tracker in a
masher uniform and a pair of Wellington boots.
One or two square-cuts and stand-up collars
struggle dismally through to the bitter end.
Often a member of the unemployed starts cheer-
fully out, with a letter from the Government
bureau in his pocket, and nothing else. He has an
idea that the station where he has the job will be
within easy walking distance of Bourke. Perhaps
he thinks there’ll be a cart or a buggy waiting for
him. He travels for a night and day without a
bite to eat, and, on arrival, he finds that the
station is eighty or a hundred miles away. Then
he has to explain matters to a publican and a
coach-driver. God bless the publican and the
coach-driver ! God forgive our social system !
Native industry was represented at one place
along the line by three tiles, a chimney-pot, and a
length of piping on a slab.
Somebody said to me “ Yer wanter go out back,
young man, if yer wanter see the country. Yer
wanter go away from the line.” I don’t wanter;
I’ve been there.
You could go to the brink of eternity so far as
Australia is concerned and yet meet an animated
mummy of a swagman who will talk of going
“ out back.” Out upon the out-back fiend !
About Byrock we met the bush liar in all his
glory. He was dressed like—like a bush larrikin.
11 is name was Jim. He had been to a ball where
some blank had “touched” his blanky overcoat.
The overcoat had a cheque for 10 “ quid ” in the
pocket. He didn’t seem to feel the loss much.
“ Wot’s ten quid?” He’d been everywhere, in-
cluding the Gulf country. He still had three or
four sheds to go to. He had telegrams in his
pocket from half-a-dozen squatters and supers
offering him pens on any terms. He didn’t give
a blank whether he took them or no. He thought
at first lie had the telegrams on him, but found
that he had left them in the pocket of the overcoat
aforesaid. He had learned butchering in a day.
He was a bit of a scrapper himself and talked a
lot about the ring. At the last station where he
shore he gave the super a sheol of a hiding. The
super was a big chap, about six-foot-three, and
had knocked out Paddy Somebody in one round.
He worked with a man who shore 400 sheep in
nine hours.
Here a quiet-looking bushman in a corner of the
carriage grew restless, and presently he opened
his mouth and took the liar down in about three
minutes.
At 5.30 we saw a long line of camels moving out
across the sunset. There’s something snaky about
camels. They remind me of turtles and iguanas.
Somebody said, “Here’s Bourke.”
The above is written more in sorrow than any-
thing else, and if it lacks interest it isn’t my
fault.
HENRY LAWSON.
P.S.—Never tackle the bush without a good
mate. With one you can do anything and go
anywhere.
The Crossing at the King.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In a brief way of speaking, Tasmania is divided
into two parts, Tasmania proper—the sleepy,
lethargic island as a whole, that seems to cry
aloud for decent Christian burial —and Tasmania
improper, which is the West Coast. Perhaps it
would be more in accordance with the direct truth
if we spoke in the past tense. The West Coast
is not of much account these times since the wild-
cat silver fields at Zeehan have hit bottom and
stopped there. But let it stand as we have
written it; our story is of the past, when Mac-
quarie Harbour district was a land of infinite,
undeveloped possibilities. “Better’n Broken Hill,
my oath,” was the current phrase—then.
It was my first trip to the coast overland. We
followed the old Linda track which connects the
Ouse, wherecivilisation of a kind ended, to Strahan,
where civilisation of a sort began again in rough
fashion. Between the two termini at the Ouse
and Strahan, two or three shepherds’ huts, shelter
sheds at the Ironstone and Woodenstore, the
former alone inhabited, the Lyell iron and alluvial
gold workings, and a small settlement at the
Queen Elver within cooey of the Strahan end of
the track, were scattered at most irregular inter-
vals. The rest was about 130 miles distance of
assorted desert and forest, partitioned off at inter-
vals of five miles by sizeable rivers.
We were on the track, three of us, making our
weary way to Strahan, my mates being “ Charley
the Rough,” and “Brasher,” names recognisable
by coasters of ten years since, when Strahan was
an ungodly place, exceeding tough for strangers,
and a man’s real name not of so much account as
his capacity to work hard and hold his liquor.
We had camped at the foot of Arrowsmith some
half-dozen miles past the Ironstone, where at that
time , of New Norfolk, was storekeeping for
the Government and trying not to go mad with
excitement engendered by chasing kangaroos out
of season round Lake St. Clair, and entertaining a
swagger or two at intervals whose measure was by
months. It was here that he, the other man,
passed us doing a fifty-mile stage and making for
the Woodenstore in the cool of the evening. Had
a good job at the Ironblow, he said, if he could
get there before the Bellinger coasted round to
Macquarie with a load of Victorian jays on board
to snap up the billets before him. He helped
himself to a pannikin of tea from our billy, lit his
pipe at our fire, cursed his : feet for blistering
like a Hobart Town lady’s, and tramped on
in the gathering gloom. We watched him till he
entered the sassafras scrub that fringed the banks
of the Collingwood.
What follows is mainly conjecture based upon a
small substratum of fact.
He left the Woodenstore at dawn, for by his
tracks, he spelled first when clean through the
first range of hills. Over wide-stretching areas of
button-grass plains where the snow-poles alone
keep the traveller to the track of splintered quartz,
through dense forest where the myrtles meet a
hundred feet above the tiny pack-track, runs the
Linda road, ever keeping to one consistency—that
if there be a particularly obnoxious hill in the
way, over the topmost pinnacle the pathway is
bound to run. Here and there we noted traces of
the man we followed. At evening he crossed the
King flats, and plunged into the dense scrub that
lines the river’s verge. Before he could see the
glisten of the stream in the last rays of the sun,
sinking behind Mount Owen, he could hear the
roar of flooded waters. There had been rain lo
the centre of the island, and the King was coming
down with all the rapidity of a southland Tas-
manian river in full flood.
They have no bridges in those parts. They built
one by way of experiment over the Nelson, but, un-
fortunately, the engineer made no allowance for
the flood waters that ran 40ft. over summer level
in the second year after its construction. A ready
substitute is supplied by two wires stretched from
bank to bank, the bottom wire some three or four
feet below the higher, sometimes stayed together ;
usually not. At the King they were not, not till
after the other man had furnished material for my
yarn. The stretch of a couple of hundred feet
across the river made these two wires sway
perilously apart when burdened with a human
load. Ao easy task the crossing in broad sunlight,
but to a man footsore and hungered, swag weigh-
ing heavily on his laden shoulders, the rush of the
waters lapping the bottom wire and twanging it
like a violin-string when some great pine log
backed up the stream against it for a short second
and then let it swing back to its old position when
the tension was within an ace of breaking-point, it
was a work of positive danger. With nerveless
fingers, he crept up on to the wires and sidled
slowly down to where the spray leaped and lashed
at him over the stony bed of the King.
So far could we trace him, and then conjecture
pure and simple supplied an ending.
# * *
We, lagging a day’s journey behind, as we sat
smoking round the camp-fire that night, could
hear no scream of agony as a frantic man, vainly
struggling for foothold, was swept adown the
current to be whirled well out of reach of the
singing eddies a mile lower, battered and sense-
less, could hear no dull moan as the great bush
“ devils ” battened on his flesh.
# # #
The King laughed and danced in the light of a
typical, shiny, summer Tasmanian day, full a
dozen feet belo\y, as we gaily, yet cautiously, slid
across the wires from bank to bank. Only a
couple of crows, seated on a withered bough a
hundred feet overhead, seemed to take no share in
the life and gaiety with which all nature was
invested, and flapped heavily away at our
approach, as though sated with some horrible
banquet. Two hours later, as we passed along-
side the Lyell workings, we could see the “Vic-
torian jays ’’ hard at work up at the Ironblow,
where the yellow cutting showed plain on the
mountain face against the grey of the surrounding
grass tussocks. They had got the billet. And
he—he never appeared to dispute their claim.
# # *
The yarn ought to stop here. But a ragged and
dissolute wreck came up to me in Bourke-street, a
day or two ago, and asked me for the price of a
drink for “Gawd Sabina,,” The undisguised
request, and the old, familiar West Coast swear-
word caught my attention, and a second look
showed me that it was he whose story I have told
above—with variations. Darn all conjecture,
anyway.
PYTHIAS.


Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
'A
J L
Pffl
51
EUREKA
electric belta
$./ /S SNx. \ •- / >Nk
i\<
m
"
\ v \
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £l. 0. 0 and
T K^-^T? l ?m^ Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
NERVOUS DEBILITY, Seminal Debility, Impotence,
and all weakness caused by indiscretion. Pains in the
Back, Lumbago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and
Bladder complaints, and in fact any disease of the Nervou«
System. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts, we are willing to furnish those belts on 30 daya
trial, and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
A Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
moniais from prominent people throughout Australia,
ai ?f, informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them com-
petent to cure any disease of the Nervous System, will be
forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamp for
postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY
Box 916, G. P. 0., Sydnkv.
\
Consult
My ENGLISH REMEDY
in use over 30 years, removes
Irregularity from whatever
cause arising. Safe, Certain
and Speedy ; failure im-
an experienced woman long
possible. cA(jcucm;cu wuiuau iOllg
and favourably known as. a successful specialist
in all Female Complaints. Particulars Free.
Address: Mrs. G. WOOD. 165 Berkley
Street, Carlton, MELBOURNE.
Marvel of tiie Age!
CU RES positively all
Local Skin Eruptions,
Festering Wounds,
Burns, Sprains, Bruises,
Corns, Gathered Breasts
Also cures ‘ ‘ Barcoo Rot’’
and other troubles. A
gift to Miners, Farmers
and Shearers. Thou-
sands 5 testify it a pre-
cious gift to humanity.
Throughout the United
Kingdom, New Zealand,
Australia—see the testi-
monials. All Chemists
Wholesale:
Australian Drug Co.
i)
Depot:
202 Oxford St., Paddington.
DEAF
By the use of PECK'S Patent
Invisible, Cushioned, and
Ventilated, Artificial Ear
Drums. Believes noises, &c.
in the head. Cures Deafness:
Send for book and particu.
lars. Address the Sole
Agent; A. M. NAST, 49
Elizabeth St. Melbourne.
Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
Dr. Jaeger's
—GAUZE-
UNDERVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
OIjN
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting', Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Send for List
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. dd. r & ss, ed.
/ J
&
»> L/'i
Mr's A '
3a. 6d. «Ss sa.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
Car. jEE- S3JOTH & SO3XT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel.
m IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pltt-street to
Castlereagh-strect),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
If
f
////
EM
i
w
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
txOPOLPIf JVfanagen,
Late Manager of Aaron’s Exchange and Imperial Hotels,
Cosmopolitan and City Clubs.
A IEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
mfferer Is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable'
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bnng about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of Nervous Debility and
Kindred Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will
be sent Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD St CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
EXTENT
PILLS.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA.
„ the
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
And. Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms : 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements
mason brothers
(limited),
GENERAL MERCHANTS & SHIPPING AGENTS,
263 to 277 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY,
Have always in Stock for Sale to the Trade and Wholesale
buyers only,
Ironmongery A General Hard ware,
GLASS, CHINA, and EARTHENWARE
WINES, BEEPS, & SPIRITS,
and
GENERAL BULK MERCHANDISE.
Sole Agents for—LUCIEN FOUCAULD & CO.’S
OLD BRANDIES. $
J. T. GAYEN'S Schnapps and Geneva.
Ist Prize Sydney International Ex.
A. MELVIN & CO.’S Champagne Pale Ales.
MACHEN’S “ Pelican ” Stout.
“THE ROYAL EDINBURGH CASTLE”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKIES.
h
a
: H .
v " I
49,000 In Use. Record, I*9 words per mlnnto.
Used by almost every Government Department in Aus-
tralasia, and in all the leading newspaper offices. Any
intelligent person may learn to write in a week as fast as
with a pen, and twice as fast in a month. Whilst the
interchangeable rubber type of other machines will not
strike a second copy, the fixed steel type of the Caligraph
produces 15 first-clsss copies at one operation. Agents
SYDNEY; J.- E. Cunningham, 84 Elizabeth-st. ; MEL-
BOURNE; C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers,
Collins-street; BRISBANE : Webster & Co.; ADELAIDE:
E. S. Wigg & Son ; HOBART: J. Waich & Sons.
Tasmania" Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Whisky
DRINK
“HID
SMITH"
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
Medical.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised, t idlest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street* London, they are
sourious
ROSE S I
>0
v/
\
WBWy
PI
%
/A
c
LOT v§s|
6
nn
fd
T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. rose;.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BV—
-4 Price ‘Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps. Posted
to any English address for Is. lOd. in stamps.
Business Announcements.
S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 14s. «<l. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S POBPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-S'AX on the Window,
Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
TOBACCONISTS, COUNTS? STOREKEEPERS,
Squatters, Station Hands, &c-,
We make, repair, strap or mount all kinds of
PIPES, and cut and fit any amber or other
mouthpieces. Send your pipes down and we
will return them by Post. A liberal discount
to the Trade.
CRAIG »• AITKEN,
—6BO. & 682
GEORGE STREET,
SYD3XTEY.
ALLT'S
SPARKLING
ALE.
<3l
f
o
o
o
o
-3C-
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHEII
Capillarine!
83f" The Lightning Moustache Producer,
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CKUf. A 4ITKI\, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
-Ask for
df
df
d
fd
f
df
AGENTS :
De Lissa A Phillips,
Barrack St., Sydney.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
apulication.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


“ANTICTJT A.”
"OOR Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs, &c. A certain and
•*- immediate cure effected (one application only) for
sore shoulders, broken knees, cracked heels, ringworm,
and sores and wounds of every description. See thou-
sands of testimonials to this effect from highest authori-
ties in England and Australia. Reference kindly per-
mitted to every livery stahle in Sydney. Price per bottle,
3s. and 6s. ; post free, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. Obtainable from
all principal merchants and saddlers throughout the
colony, or from H. LEICESTER, 89 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Specially appointed agent for N.S.W. for “Anticuta"
Company.
■\T OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s wiilsKy.
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION,
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
HUDSON BROTHERS, LIM™-
SWJ BROS ITS
CLYDE M'f tSB
Clyde Works, Granville,
IN.S.W.
The “CLYDE” K CHAFFCUTTERS.
Made in three sizes, with or without Sieve-gear.
FRAMES OF BEST POLISHED BLACKWOOD.
No better Chaffcutters have ever been made, and with our
Horsegears to match, thev form plants impossible to beat.
J®" FOR THE HARVEST SEASON:—
New “Clyde” Damp-weather Strippers,
New “Clyde” Improved Winnowers,
AND
BUCKEYE
Bin ders,
Mowers.
Ensure the rapid and economical handling of any crop.
ss* We Make and Stock every kind of Farm Implement.
XO Pt'TY. CATALOGUES FREE 'BY POST.
A
%
c
<RAckA«
o
o
;■ -
K. A. Hcrvcy, Agent, 144 Clare iice-bt , Sydney.
//
!)
f.
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
mER Party: “Why didn’t yon keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me 1 I drink nothin" else ! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Uuutiiigtou Mill
•MiS
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.,
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&c., &o.
187 & flBB Clarence Street,
S-S-DKTBTBr, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kock ISieakers
West iiisrlio use Liigmes*
lEiiJlifi
Hay-street oi,i "i Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
d
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING- PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
REST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet lono-,
o
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMIXO Pipes.
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
r
£
I C I
