

S 3
CA
I
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
JESm G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
' —FOR —
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sd
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
<2
*
o
4
4
o
/
%
'/■
O
o
o
o
o
A
O
$
o
z^.
r />
3
:
*
J3T* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of tires ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nnw Oxkord-st., London, gif' Pur-
chaser's should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
aaaoHX h
•aoxsraaoatj
«
nm
ter
5*4
o*Sl s
an*
/o
3°i
/T
rv.
-uj
Lenten Season, JjGIltGIl SGcISOII ! Lenten Season.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh (good and gee Company, Ltd.
Fisli ! Fisb.! Fish !
/"AWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAM K
■ ' DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enonnous section of the inhabitants ot the city, an.,
residents in every country town of N.S.W. —as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried a t half parcels rates- equal to about
Id. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all,.The F.F. &I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely model ate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon —
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.—We shall be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs—Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
Hy. Pateson, Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WILKIE'S WHISKY. AlLSBFf’i ALE
WALKER, 24. BOJXTD SYDNEY.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
< -\
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND >QOVERNOR STEER AGE,
7
Also in Riding.
J. —c. HOWARD.
A t , utg ±IX New South Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Shuttleworth.
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SO
m
S'-
1
■
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.VV.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD
Sinsrle Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of ail classes: Undertype Kugines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Machines of all sizes n Speciality ; elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Clmtf-enlting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
Eoliabb for Deep, Wide Work,
Ligh juss in fraught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
I
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for fid. each.
Convertahle to o dinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING
j. &
ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES.
C. Howard, 2BO',
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Pitt street;, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 13.—N0. 686. j
[Saturday, April 8, 189 a


TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Br “BRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
page
TRUSS
World will Retain
ture or give Kelief
Pierce'* magnetic
Truss. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
. cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
„ It can be worn with ease and comfort
Algu t and Day. Perfect fittingTrussessent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS Co.,BanFrancißCO,Cal.
Or Washington H. Soul A Co., 160 Pitt St.,
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
NO
In the
&e R i£:
Elastic
Truss has
ands of
Springs.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
DOWS
rVEMBROCATION
m
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
fob, INFANTS INVALIDS
‘Thia is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. War. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., Ac,, Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND,
v.o.
CROMTYI
Whisky
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygiknio, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Coot Csiar MATTEI’S
MARVELLOUS
remedies,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, audits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ■ Only genuine with shleld-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade mark—a “ W hite Hose ’
and address In full.
MANUOO j>.
HEALTH. SWWJW AND 1-/COX RESTORED
ifi rout I Peeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
8 Ess f ncr °f Life restores Health and
thf ',f o f t shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 13s or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
mve < lope Paml>hletS J ™ *”* recei T t °f stamped addressed
Agents for Aiis^a’nsia—Perry cb Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitvoy. Ml OURNE. vtenruae
Agents for N.S. Wales- W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
£o|FM AN£ *Sons
V
i V
0
oK
f
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THEWORLO
Manufactory:
Cootaimmdra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Drapery.
se
SHAH
THE
JAEGER
TRADE MARK.
ATTENTION of the Public
is respectfully called to the
fact that only goods bearing
the above Trade Mark are guaranteed by Dr. Jaeger to be
genuine and in accordance with his system.
No round Trade Mark is used by this Company.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Go,, Limited,
LONDON - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ~ £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Business Announcements.
H*?™ O.THEH
AT W EAR
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. 6d. & 5s 6d.
St
&
Y;
3s. Q«3L. & ss. 6d.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
Gr. H. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System/
BY
“PRICE WABUNG.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d«
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The
. , (OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Brighton of KTew South "Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dini
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, sp "
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WlNEsTspißifs, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTeST 0 ... Proprietress,
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. Double Room, Bs.
Vfl
All
833
TtjA'f
i
m
<f
|s> Always f he- Rest
Scale of Advertising -
—lN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An KXTHA DISCOUNT of 5
per cent, allowed for cash
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
in advance.
i\OW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
<6
I<AST OF SIX:”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
EENEST F A VEITC.
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”- “In . i.« • ,
romances which write themselves often in letters of blood, amid'the half-unknown, mysterLus TegTons of toopi'S UstnUia' ‘ihat’tTfv
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm. ’ picai Australia. That they
“ The wnter llilK turned scene ‘P amter for * he nonee aad limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.” N
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


Medical.
Assisted Tby Dr. BLMBLIE,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard . Square,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
nf NS.ff. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Honrs : 10 to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and
7 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those Usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all eases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
IFIIL.ILS.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 65., or 21s. tor five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. (id.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper when writing.
“ Men I have Smiled with.”
w E STAY at Bruton’s,
jMHfiginog
STAY AT THE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
CHILTEHN, VIC.
pi McSWINEY’S STAR HOTEL
Is tub Best.
WJYGG-YY.
Q.ive 3ES. INT aiigliton.
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
T O EONTO HOTEL^
Lake Macquarie.
S3T Under New Management.
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
&s. per Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager .. Geo. Ily. .James
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
ALBURY.
THE GLOBE HOTEL
(T. K. BROWN, PnoPMKton)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
43T New Sample Room just Added. TSfi
grand
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
MKLUOUUNU.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3a. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, Ids. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. P. BEIvEB, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
TRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
m
m
T
L R.C.S L.M.P.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Or. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous ani Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the'
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty'to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and ,
Cured Patients,.
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Fatiexits may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy;, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
ear Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
mmm
n
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest >j
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Hia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness,, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send Gd. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receiv©
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION TUBE.
E
Shipping.
INULA ND VIA A MEUIOA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Hod Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW "ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £C3 and £G6.
Combination Ticket, M 2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For tkne cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FRQM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government ot
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates :
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep;
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
Kill Scrub Co.’s
DE STRUCT AN T.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
S3P Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Esq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director General
of Forests), and other t killed scientific agricultural
experts.
Maiglbckchei
joftbeVall'J
USUV LOHSf
LOHSE'S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
aretbe mostfasbionable in tbe world.
Sold by all bigb class'perfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
qH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Ca pillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. IgU
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine —los. 6d., Post Free.
HMIG A AITKfJf, Sole Agents,
080 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
£49,460
worth for
£\
See Annisrnwnt
Column.


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Uonaists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each, j
py POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt Of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
fsd
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWIGK.
A Family Hotel, select tind 'beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney, Terms very moderate.
T. BKOWJf, Proprietor.
I
Simpi- est
&SEST I
_®/VINS
mnaihine
Wsrlb
Before purchasing any oilier
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
&
r
9S
Km
FROM
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
fs
ih is a solid handsonre cbke of
scouring soap which has no equal
for all cleaning purposes excepHn
the laundry To use it is to value it-*
What will SAPOLIO do? Why it will clean paint, make oil-cloths
bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new appearance. It will
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour
the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly. The
wash-basin, the bath-tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pin if you use SAPOLIO. One cake will prove all we say. Be a
clever housekeeper and try it.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT ONE SAPOLIO.
ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS CO.. NEW YORK.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
NEWTON & LAMB,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Every Style of Household Furniture within
the Means of Everyday Purchasers.
BEDROOM SUITES
<£6
10s SUITE, comprising WARDROBE with silvered plateglass door, DRESSING
TABLE, TOILET GLASS, WASHSTAND with TOWEL RAIL and CHAIR.
d£9
SUITE, comprising WARDROBE, with .silvered plateglass centre door and drawer
TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached, MARBLE-TOP
WASHSTAND with tile back and. TOWEL RAIL and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
A l 2
SUITE, comnrising LARGE WARDROBE with silvered plateglass centre door and
long drawer,' TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached,
Marbletop Washstand with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD and TOWEL RAIL
and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
&13
10s SUITE, comprising BEACONSFIELD WARDROBE with silvered platoirlaes
door TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached, Marbleton
WASHSTAND with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD, TOWEL RAIL, and tw,
CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
£l6
16s SUITE, comprising
door, LARGE DRESS
JEWEL DRAWERS.
CUPBOARD, TOWEL
BEACON SKI ELD WARDROBE with silvered plateglass
INC CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS and
double Marbletop WAS![STAND (tile back), PEDESTAI
i KAIL, and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
£l9
ASH and WALNUT SUITE, comprising WARDROBE with bevelled silvered plat*'
plass centre door, TOILET TABLE with SWING GLASS and JEWEL DRAWERS
Marblotop WASH ST AN I) with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD, TOWEI
RAIL, and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS SYDNEY
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
•3Ei-A_;isrJD poe
THE EASTER HOLIDAYS.
COMPLETE
OUTFITS
FROM
£2 2s.
UfWARbS.
Exi-silkf
No Trouble.
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
Ml
,/~1
r
- •- s‘
Vs
•>
m
fm
c\
&a s
photograph
FOUR
FRIEND'S
ou
PICNIC,
YACHTING
anA
HOLIDAY
EXCURSIONS,
Beud. for Illustrated Catalogue
BAKER and ROUSE,
375 —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY 375
Directly Opposite SYDNEY ARCADE,
And at 256 ColJias-st., Melbourne; 69 Rundle-st., Adelaide; 46 Queen-st., Brisbane.
SAYWELL & CO.
DEPOT
FOR
MARVEL
TOBA C C O
C fORCE S T
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
£IG Cl> xxx .m 3cx K3.xx o b. Boilers, Gr rt s Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
KST Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT MAISIEnS.
surveying, mathematical, electrical.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS' Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rick and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Ululated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
meats and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &•€., are easy 0/ access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
ORIGINAL and BEST TONIC. OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED.
Captain Fisher, Stipendiary Magistrate, writes“ I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and I am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic properties.”
Captain Heselton. J.P., Chairman Port Jackson Steamship Company, writes:—“For many years I h» v£
used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE, and I can therefore personally testify to its many excel'e it strengthening
properties. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of Ihe company, and always
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative, a
thing which even the robust sometimes require. I gladly subscribe my name to endorse the merits of a remedy hke
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.”
J. M’Farlanc, Esq., M.L.A., writes“ Having been a great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number ol
years, and having used a number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks' use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed for youi
Tonic has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted.’’
N.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
N.B.—MARSH ALL’S TONIC NERVINE is warranted to he absolutely free from all Injurious JrrUgs.
On Sale Everywhere at 2s. and 3s. «d. a Rottle.
»Xj. jtsJtnOS., Sole IVlanvifaotvirei’ o '
“TALES of ihs CONVICT SYSTEM”


The Bulletin
Vol. 13*-No. 686.
SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1893.
Price, 6d.
LAI 6MB
MAI’ or
Queensland.
LAND GRAB
MAP
mT&mums
THE GREAT ALL-QUEENSLAND ROBBERY
The black spaces show the lands— 200,000,000 acres —proposed to be handed over gratis to land-grant railway syndicates in Queensland. The white portions represent
the thin slices of the province that will remain—hemmed in from markets on every side by the freeholds of the syndicators—for the people.
(See Leading Article , also the Letterpress on Page 7)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
O ——
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly, ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required ,<
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year. - - -
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with tvhom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 tvords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin toil I return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such 'MSS.
LONDON.. ’
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office .of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street,. E.C. f
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
lund, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future icill be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 8, 1893.
The Public Enemy—M'Ilwraith.
The Queensland general elections take place
in a very few weeks from this date, and
then Thomas' MTlwraith, the mighty
syndicator, will apply to the electors—those
that remain l of them—to express their
approval of his policy. If things go well
with him, it will be the apotheosis of the
corpulent financier of Auchenflower, and his
head will jostle with the heavens—the only
heavens to which MTlwraith and his kind
have ever aspired. It has taken him many
patient years to work out the stupendous
programme which now seems to be on the
verge of accomplishment. The cheap, com-
monplace politician who helped to form'the
tail of the old Macalister Cabinet, the
jobbing Premier who—along with Palmer
and Jonah Perkins —tried to engineer one
small, tentative, apologetic land-grant railway
transaction, and was immediately extin-
guished with ignominy, the loud-mouthed
patriot and bogus Republican who came
back to power to be the Washington df
Australia, the deserted and discredited place-
man who fell from office and went to sulk in
obscurity, the subordinate evil genius of the
Coalition—these are the various phases of
the MTlwraith of the past. And out of
them has been evolved the MTlwraith of
the present, a bloated and apoplectic autocrat
who aspires to run a Hispano - American
dictatorship in Queensland a Guzman
Blanco without his patriotism—a Barrios
without a single one of his noble ideals.
* • #
MTlwraith 's position is unique among
Australian politicians. He has abandoned
his alleged republicanism ; he has practically
dismissed his nominal master, Griffith,
after utterly discrediting that traitor and
wiping his boots upon Griffith’s carcase;
he has bought the Parliament bodily, and
with its aid has disfranchised an enormous
percentage of the democratic electors of
Queensland ; and he would almost seem to
have abandoned even the stereotyped pre-
tence of seeking power for the good of his
country. He has abandoned everythrrTg, in
fact, save the work of wreaking vengeance
upon the common people, and ministering to
the hunger of the ravenous foreign land-
syndicates. “This province for sale, cheap”—
that is the trade-mark of the M‘llwraith
Ministry and its hungry following.
* * * #
There have been many unscrupulous poli-
ticians in Australia’s past history, but none
like M‘llwraith. Neither will there ever
be any like M‘llwraith in the future, for if
he be returned to office there will, in the
near future, be nothing left for his successors
to squander. Compared to him, such fin-
anciers as Vogel sink into insignificance,
and the whole race of reckless wasters, from
the first beginnings of the country down to
the present time, are but as the small dust
in the balance. Nobody, before M‘llwraith’s
time, ever conceived the idea of parting with
all the available public estate of an enormous
province in one act, without getting a solitary
coin into the Treasury in return. The
inspiration of “ selling ” for nothing, in fee
simple, enough land to make an empire, and
professing to confer a benefit upon the
nation thereby, was so vast a treachery as to
be beyond even the most daring of them all.
If MTlwraith remains in office for a very
few years longer he may then die comfort-
ably, with the full assurance that he will
never be forgotten in Queensland. The
curses of a, ruined nation in the throes of
civil war will keep his memory green when
all his contemporaries are forgotten.
* * »
On the preceding page will be found a full
exposition of the programme on which the
Queensland Dictator proposes to appeal to
the nation—or, rather, that section of it
which has not yet been disfranchised by a
cunningly-contrived and cowardly law,
passed by a Parliament of traitors—a Parlia-
ment which, elected as a protest against
black slavery, yet had the effrontery to re-
enact black slavery ; and which, elected also
as a protest against land-grant railways, yet
deliberately dug deep the foundations of the
biggest legislative land-steal in the world's
history. It is a programme well adapted
for pictorial illustration. The parts of the
sketch which are coloured black represent
the public estate which the M‘llwraith-
favoured land-grant railway syndicates are to
receive, without payment, in consideration
for making their own railways across Queens-
land. The railways, when made, are to be
the exclusive'property,of the syndicates, and
to he worked (entirely for their benefit. The
■.speculators who profit by. this wondrous
transaction do not buy their immense mono-
poly from the State —a monopoly which,
with the increase of population, will one day
become an endless gold-mine ; instead, they
receive it gratis, and receive also about half
the province as compensation for receiving it
gratis ! The lying pretence on which this
transaction is based is that it is no longer
possible to borrow money for construction
purposes ; but if only half the proposed
grants were sold in the open market they
would yield enough to build all the proposed
lines, as national property, three times over.
As it is, the country has to pay something
like six times the value of the railways— and
it does not even get the railways after all.
The dimensions of this stupendous fraud
upon posterity can only be gauged by the
map. It sweeps away everything except the
narrow strip along the coast—which the
syndicators and their sympathisers and con-
federates already hold in their individual
capacities as squatters and speculators; a
few attenuated blocks sandwiched in be-
tween the railway-steals—which blocks the
syndicators are even now buying up at 10s.
per acre'; and one death-stricken, ghost-
haunted little patch of barrenness in the far
North, infested by samples of nearly every
malarial disease, insect plague, snake and
assorted reptile on earth—the trackless, sun-
cursed region of Cape York, where even a
syndicate would die of thirst and horror.
This is all that is left for the people of
Queensland and their posterity ; the syndi-
cates are to take the rest. Among all the
men in history who have sold, or attempted
to sell, their country, no one ever planned a
vaster sale-than this. But, after all, The
Bulletin does not charge M‘llwraith with
selling the country. It recognises that ho is
merely giving it away.
# #
We have alluded to the land-grant railway
project as M’llwraiths policy, and in
truth he has no other. It is even open to
doubt if he ever had any other. As far
as can bo gathered from his present atti-
tude he cares nothing for Freetrade,
Protection, Imperialism, Republicanism,
Federation, social problems, or anything
else under the sun. M‘ll wraith’s career
has revealed the hideous weakness of Parlia-
mentary Government—unless accompanied
by the Referendum or some similar means
whereby the people at large can overrule
their parliamentary representatives when
the latter betray their trust—as it was never
before revealed in Australasia, and seldom
in any other land. When MTI wraith’s
friends came into power for the third time
they found themselves virtual masters of a
Legislature which was pledged almost to a
man to abjure Kanaka labour and land-grant
railways. They realised that 90 per cent, of
the politicians around them would gladly go
back'on their oaths if they received sufficient
inducement and could be guaranteed against
the popular vengeance at next election. The
lure was easily found : when all Queensland
was to be eaten up, there was enough induce-
ment among the prospective fragments to
sway twenty such Legislatures. And the
most effectual guarantee against the nation’s
wrath was simply to disfranchise the nation
—or as much of it as seemed likely to vote
against the sale of the country into indus-
trial slavery. And, without the Referendum,
or some such device whereby the nation
can veto the acts of a corrupted Parlia-
ment, there was absolutely no redress, save
by armed insurrection. There has been no
such treachery in Australian history before,
yet, unless the Referendum is introduced, a
similar fraud may be perpetrated any day in
any part of this continent.
# » *
Whether the policy of disfranchisement,
whereby it has been sought to convert
MTlwraith into a Dictator, will or will not
prove absolutely effective, the coming election
must reveal. The Queensland Democracy
has—so far as peaceful means are concerned
—this one chance between it and utter ruin,
and it must make the most of it. If one
single electorate between the border and the
Gulf is left uncontested in the Democratic
interest—if one single Democrat who still
possesses a vote fails to exercise it, the feeble
chance of success is thereby rendered a
shade more feeble still, and the neglected
opportunity is a crime which may never be
repaired. The Democratic leaders must
issue the same proclamation which, in days
of old, used to call out the whole of
the Saxon manhood against a common
enemy: “ Let every man who is not a
nothing leave his home and come.” The
occasion is one when all minor differences
should be sunk --when the unionist and the
non-unionist, the Paraguaylian pilgrim and
those who have scorned the men of Lane’s
crusade as deserters from the cause of Aus-
tralia, the native and the stranger within
his gates, must all unite to save the country
from a brutal rape. If candidates of in-
telligence are scarce it matters little ; what
is wanted is a reliable Parliamentary leader,
one or two able lieutenants, and a following
whose fidelity will be proof against attack.
And the programme of the party should
consist of these points first and above all
things ; The absolute prohibition of land-
grant railways ; the stoppage of the Griffil-
wraith land-sale policy ; the abolition of
Chinese, Kanaka, Indian, and all other forms
of pauper immigration; the establishment of
manhood suffrage pure and simple ; the in-
troduction of the Referendum, as a guarantee
against any repetition of the stupendous
treachery of the Coalition ; and a cast-iron
resolution that no terms shall be made and
no faith kept with MTlwraith —that he
shall be regarded as a common enemy, and
that there shall be no rest nor peace until he
is driven from the Legislature.
* * *
Let no faith be kept with MTlwraith
because he has kept none. His professions
that his huge scheme of railway construction
will provide work and wages for the hungry
population are a mockery ; the work will be
done by the coolies for whose importation
arrangements have already been made in
India, or by some other variety of
cheap imported pauperism. The wages
will be 9d. per diem, and the slop over
of the tide of cheap labour will swamp
every industry in Queensland with the
black labour curse for ages to come. If the
cause of Democracy goes down in the coming
conflict and no other means of redress can
be found, the railway syndicates will own
Queensland —its lands, its huge undeveloped
mineral resources, its banks, its newspaper
press, its means of communication, its
Legislature, its Government—yea, even its
courts of justice. And as for the mass of
the population, its position will be that of the
Bengalee ryot towards his white conqueror—
equally servile and equally hopeless.
• # #
These are the inevitable consequences if
the Democratic party is defeated, and pro-
vided no other means of redress can be
found, and the only other means of redress
is civil war. The logical excuse for civil war
lies, not in the vastness of the interests at
stake, but in the fact that the Coalition, by
its manipulation of the franchise, has de-
liberately deprived a great part of the nation
of its right of self-government, and has
reduced its opponents to political serfdom.
In abolishing a great portion of the con-
stituency it has violated justice as grossly as
did Charles I. when he sought to abolish
Parliament and thereby started on the road
to the scaffold, or Louis Napoleon when he
perpetrated his famous coup d'etat. It has, by
guile and corruption, practically abolished the
principle of Government by the majority,
and under such conditions the right of the
majority to assert itself by any possible
means is beyond dispute. If Premier
MTlwraith will submit his railway and
Kanaka policy to the popular vote under the
same franchise which existed when the last
Parliament was returned, and if his proposi-
tions are endorsed by the nation, then there
is nothing more to be said. In that case, it
will be merely a matter of national suicide,
and the right of a community to commit
suicide is as indefeasible as that of an indi-
vidual. But otherwise he occupies the posi-
tion of a usurper and a tyrant, who must be
dethroned.
Dr. Bevan on the Land Boom.
Onck when Pabkbs was telling a public meeting
of the glory and gain that would accrue to New-
South Wales were he permitted to run” the pro-
vince, a hungry-looking mechanic interrupted.
He wanted to know “straight ” what would be
done to enable engineers to find employment at
decent wages, For once the maker of Austra-
lian history refrained from launching the con
suming lightnings of repartee. He might
according to his Parkesian custom, have told his
questioner to “go out and bark with the other
dogs,” or called him a “ poodle-headed creeping
creature,” or “ a mole-eyed Murray cod.” But
instead, he attacked the problem presented
boldly, and gave a reply which evoked thunders
of approbation from his supporters, and left his
ill-conditioned catechist silent and abashed
He declared his conviction that “the softening
process now at work upon the bases of society
would ultimately tend to greatly ameliorate
the condition of the wage-earning masses.” The
bamboozled audience demanded to know what
the discontented engineer had to say to that
and he narrowly escaped being thrown out, ’
* * *
Dr. Bevan, the fat and sociable professional
Christian of Melbourne (wages, £3O a week)
has lately been in Sydney lecturing upon what
ho saw during his last trip round the world.
It is a good thing for those who cannot take
such trips that somebody else can who doesn’t
mind telling them wdiat it is like. Dr. Bevan
is that sort. He returns from abroad and
chatters pleasantly enough of what he has seen
and done. He is that anomalous thing—an
entertaining clergyman well liked by all
classes. Little pebbles of Church reform and
improved charitable administration are thank-
fully accepted from his hand by those starving
for the bread of justice. The exploiters, too
the men who prey upon their fellows, and, if
they fatten sufficiently thereby, put the penny
of a church window or a contribution to the
stipend in the slot of salvation, like Dr. Bevan.
He sometimes admonishes them in an abstract
way, and preaches against the Mammon of un-
righteousness. He digs them in the ribs and
says, “ You are sad dogs who will not inherit
the Kingdom of Heaven,” as Lady Tiffins
used to smite a “ wicked man ” with her fan.
And, as he was in Sydney, the local Daily
Telegraph took the opportunity of ascertain-
ing his views on several subjects, particularly
the land-boom and its results. Some time ago
Dr. Bevan, in a general way, thanked Gon for
the chastening influence of boom, and what he
has to say now is on the same lines. For
vacuous inconsequentiality, Parkes could not
beat this:—
The depression iias been of very great advantage to us.
It will stay the great public expenditure, it will call men
in the middle classes back to a simpler way of living, and
it will break down that irritated feeling between capital
and labour which has given rise to so many difficulties in
the past. Workmen and employers alike are sufferers in
a common disaster, and this time a great misfortune will,
I think, tend gradually to bring them more closely
together.
# # *
According to this, what is required to secure
peace on earth and good will among men is
enough land-booms. God works in a mysterious
way, and Dr. Bevan recognises the land-syndi-
cate as a means whereby He anneals together
the worker who wants fair wages and the em-
ployer who never gives more than he can help,
wisely regulates Governmental expenditure,
and advances righteousness. All that is neces-
sary is to corner city and suburban lands and
gamble with them until the people are stone-
broken into inability to buy groceries and
driven to beg from the sixpenny restaurants
such shreds as the swine do eat. Make the
great majority of the people of a province
poorer, more dependent on such employment as
can be had ; hand them over, under the whip of
a necessity sharper than a serpent’s tooth, to em-
ploying drivers, themselves made more anxious
about the securing of profits ; render it neces-
sary to take more in taxation than ever before
from their earnings, and Dr, Bevan thinks you
are on the right track to a rational solution of
social and governmental difficulties. Anyhow,
he optimistically opines that everything will
ultimately turn up trumps, and goes on twitter-
ing to the money-changers of what he saw in
America—“almost universally a mechanical
hardening of nature—a nation of worshippers of
the almighty dollar,” to wit,
« • •
The Melbourne land boom was not a “great
misfortune. ” It w-as a colossal villainy. There
was nothing in the nature of accidental or
unforeseeable calamity about it. The Queens-
land flood could be called a misfortune,
because it was outside the power of
men to know of its coming and (buildings
once having been erected on the low-lying
lands) prevent it. The Melbourne land boom
was a conspiracy against the community
entered into by a few, chiefly pillars of the
churches, who, in the interests of stock-jobbing,
hoed a row in one or other of the gardens of
grace. Certain lands known to be necessary
to industrial uses were secured and held against
use. The men who did this thing were enemies
of the public, as truly as if, holding a supply of
corn, they had burned the harvests of the
country to secure famine prices for it. If a
Brisbane merchant, having a stock of goods
stored on high ground, had been able to cause
the Queensland floods, and had done so with the
object of making a fortune out of consequent
public need, he would have been the moral peer
of a Melbourne land boomer. The first care of
the syndicates was to find out in what direction
settlement was most likely, under natural
circumstances, to extend. Their next was
to buy the land there so that it
could not extend until they had been hand-
somely squared. The buying was often done
on paper, payment being contingent upon
ultimate sales, so that the chief gamblers used
loaded dice. In the expressive phraseology of
the share-market, they “stood on velvet.” They
could not lose much, while their gain would be
in proportion to, and made up from, the loss of
the people.
# * #
When a network of land “ corners ” environed
the city, the price of land naturally x-ose. That
is to say, the amount the cornerers could take
from the public earnings increased. Fictitious
sales were quoted as genuine, and everything
conceivable done to attract buyers. They were
attracted in due course, and, the brief reign of
unreal land-values having set in, were enabled
to sell again to others at a profit. This
emboldened them to try again and again, and
to the comparatively thin ranks of the pro-
fessional land-sharks were soon added a swarm
of ambitious amateurs. Rapid fortunes were


■ealised by men who couldn’t earn salt at any
kind of useful work, and after awhile half the
people in Melbourne took to smoking nine-
rienny cigars and trying to unload residential
sites upon each other. The papers became litho-
graphic paeans of town allotments, interspersed
vvitli letterpress accounts of sales effected
a tul leading* articles on the great increase of
national wealth. There was no such increase,
but a diminution greater than flood or drought
could cause. Wealth consists of things needful
for use and produced by labour. All that had
happened was that a few thousand persons had
been started bidding against each other for the
privilege of blackmailing production and pre-
venting the creation of wealth. Capitalised values
became far higher than any return from land
could yield ; rents rose until shopkeepers were
starved out, and wages fell correspondingly.
# * #
Some of the chief conspirators came to grief
by over-boldness. But the wiliest of them
prospered exceedingly, and unloaded in time to
escape the consequences of collapse. Providence
watched over those of them who watched the
progress of the land-mania closely, and calcu-
lated exactly how far it would go. And it will
do the same thing every time. While the chief
and indispensable element of national produc-
tion can be secured by a few and held for a
rise there will be land booms, and one will
profit by the loss of many. If men are allowed
to make money by preventing other men from
earning a living, they will have a try for it, and
some will succeed. The desolating scourge
of land-booms could be easily and effectively
dealt with. If the owner of a thousand-pound
vacant allotment were taxed even as heavily as
the owner of a thousand-pound house, he would
i. ;t hold it very long lor a rise, and the rise
generally wouldn’t come off if he did. But this
remedy is too drastic for Dr. Beyan. Not being
among those who have to live by applying their
labour to land, or who must buy or lease a site
for any business purpose, he thinks things are
going on nicely, and will personally await the
softening processes of time. He recognises the
evil of land monopoly, but that is, of course, in
the abstract, and he would handle it deli-
cately. The heavy interest the belated syndi-
cates are now compelled to pay on their
investments he regards as a sufficiently heavy
tax. In order to temper the wind to the shorn
lambs of the syndicate, he would have their
lands locked up from use for the present. With
that benevolent object he would allow the
millions of pounds’ worth of value which the
people of Victoria have conferred upon the
lands of Melbourne to continue flowing unin-
terruptedly into a few private bank accounts,
while the province starves for revenue and its
workers are taxed up to the eyes.
The Political Economy of Daily
Journalism.
In a leaderette, of March 27, the S.M. Herald,
dealing with “ the disastrous failure of the
cotton-strike in Lancashire,” argues that “ those
who assume the guardianship of the rights of
working-men ” must, sooner or later, recognise
“ that the rate of wages must be governed by
the price the article will bring.” Further, that
the extension and improvements of machinery
“ inevitably necessitate a diminution in the
cost of production which means diminished
wages to the workmen.” The Bulletin does
not remember to have met, on any previous
occasion, more examples of fallacious reasoning
in so brief a space.
# # #
In the first place, it never was, and never will
be, true that the price of an article determined
the rate of wage, but it always was and
always will, while present conditions en-
dure, be true that the rate of wages largely
determines the price of articles. As for
the statement that a cheapening in the
cost of production must necessarily be
followed by a reduction in the exchange-value
of goods, that is not essential if usual; but it is
much less true that a lessening in the cost of
articles must necessarily be followed by a
reduction of wages. An all-round decrease in
the price of goods would doubtless be followed,
and justly, by a lowering of wages, but the
reduction would be more apparent than real,
being balanced by an increase in the purchasing
power of money. Looking at the Herald’s
argument ethically and economically, it will be
seen to be alike unjust, unwise, and immoral
that an addition to a community’s power of
producing wealth should result in a lessening of
the amount diverted to the personal uses of its
producers. Suchacourse of conduct would divert
invention from its avowed purpose. Everyone
speaks of labour-saving, no one of waye-lessening
machinery. Therefore, it must be immoral to
turn community-developed gifts into engines
which lower certain men’s standard of living,
and thereby increase their tendencies to be
ignorant and evil-disposed. Thus to act is
simply to increase the burdens and responsi-
bilities of the State, to fill asylums with the
prematurely aged and ill-developed, to fill gaols
with economically-manufactured criminals.
# # #
Neither in the ethics of Christianity or any
other faith will the Herald find an apologist.
On the face of things, it is unjust that an
increase of the national capacity for wealth-
making should result in diminishing the wealth
receipts of a certain class. Moreover, the pro-
ceeding is as absurd as it is unjust, and even more
unwise than either. Consider; The community’s
capacity for wealth-production is increased,
and, therefore, the sum of wealth produced.
Hurely the obvious course for the sane and not
too selfish would be to give opportunities for an
increase of consumption co-equal with the
aggregation of wealth ? No, says the Herald,
the moral, just, and wise method is to follow an
increase of production by such a decrease of
wages that a decrease of consumption must
result! The Herald does not recommend a
decrease of profits ; oh, no. But an increase of
profits, rent, and interest, even up to the mar-
gin of increased production, would not cor-
respondingly increase consumption.
*' # •
The wealthy classes have already readied
their limit of consumption. A further increase
of their wealth means to them, not an advanced
purchase of the ordinary commodities cheapened
by invention, but an augmentation of invest-
ment (meaning a further increase in production)
and a slight swelling of expenditure in the direc-
tion of luxuries. But the world’s market-men
cater for the multitude, and the multitude is
made up of wage-earners whose earnings go, to
the last penny, in weekly purchases of com-
modities. It necessarily follows, then, that any
considerable multiplication of wealth which is.
not followed by a corresponding augmentation
of the general power to purchase (the Herald
asserts, on the contrary, that a lessening of the
power to purchase should follow) must defeat
its own object and result in the ruin of all con-
cerned. The only exception to this rule is to
be found in the case of serf-peoples who do not
produce for the use of their own community,
but for those of other countries. Any such
departure among free peoples from the economic
law that consumption should keep pace with
production must result in what is idiotically
known as over-production—for which “under
consumption ” would be a more truly descriptive
term—depression, pauperism, commercial crisis
and national bankruptcy. Working-men are
happily saved from such a “guardianship of their
rights ” as that laid down by the S.M. Herald.
It ought to understand the position as The
Bulletin has stated it. If it does and yet
promulgates different opinions, then its iniqui-
ties are manifold, but we prefer to look at its
economic heresies merely as an example of the
blind leading the blind, and not as a deliberate
attempt to mislead. It is usually the Herald’s
misfortune more than its fault that it is an un-
conscious disseminator of everything that makes
for irreligion, revolution, anarchy, injustice,
criminality, discontent, and Mammon-worship.
Doubtless, the day will come when a journal
publishing such disturbing and upheaving
articles as the one quoted from will render
itself liable to have its plant confiscated and its
circulation summarily stopped. But it is not
yet.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Payment of Members.
Ox no question of social politics are civilised
countries better agreed than on the justice of
paying members of Parliament for their ser-
vices. The cabled announcement that the
Gladstoxe Government has accepted the pro-
posal of the Radicals and will introduce a Pay-
ment of Members Bill in the Commons brings
England almost abreast with the great body of
civilised States. England is the only country
governed by western ideas which does not pay its
members of Parliament directly or indirectly.
In Italy and Spain members are not directly
paid but are rewarded for their services by free
travelling passes and various other tangible
favours. For the rest, all countries in the
northern hemisphere pay their members. But
while there is this practical unanimity as to the
principle there is the utmost difference as
to the amounts paid. This promises to
be the main point of contention in Australia
also. In the United States members draw
£lOOO a year; in France, the next great Re-
public, £1 per day ; and in Republican Switzer-
land ten shillings in the Council and six
shillings in the Lower House. In Denmark
they receive fifteen shillings, and in Portugal a
guinea. In Sweden the session is limited to
four months, for which each member receives
£66; in Norway members receive fourteen
shillings per day for as many days as the
session lasts. Germany gives ten shillings per
day, Austria £l, and Greece £2O per month to
senators, and £lO to deputies. A want of uni-
formity is to be expected owing to the different
value of money in different countries, but the
root of the difference lies in the different values
attached to legislative work by different com-
munities. Money is of about the same value all
over Australia, yet there is a near prospect of
each Legislature having a tariff different to all
the others. One more interesting feature in the
payment of members question is the manner
in which communities having two Houses value
the services of both classes of representatives.
The United States and France pay both alike ;
Switzerland makes the difference already noted;
but with regard to Switzerland it should be
remembered that the National Council is some-
thing more than what we know here as an
Upper House. Portugal pays its Peers and
Commons alike, as do also Germany and Austria,
while Greece pays twice as much to its senators
as to its deputies. The minor proposals over
which Australian legislators so often wax
eloquent are substantive laws in several coun-
tries. In many, payment per day is limited to
the number of days a session actually lasts, and
in some, as in Sweden, members are fined for
every day they are absent without sufficient
cause. The inference from all this is that a
man can pronounce in favour of payment of
members with the moral certainty that the
civilised thought of the world is at his back,
but that upon the other matters there is room
for experiment.
In New South Wales and Queensland Parlia-
ments the lawyers are, as a class, the most per-
sistent opponents of payment of members. Is
this an instance in political evolution of what
Darwin, in physiological evolution, calls
“throwing back?” In Edward lll.’s time,
when payment of members was the law in the
English Parliament, the people were so over-
ridden by lawyers that a decree was passed
ordaining that if lawyers were elected they
should not be paid. Soon after, the lawyers
started a crusade against payment. In the
wholly different conditions of Australia, where
every man is expected to work and to require
payment for his work, is the antipathy to pay-
ment of members manifested by local lawyers
explainable as are the crooked eyes of a child
of straight-eyed parents but of crooked-eyed
ancestors ?
Another case of alleged assault upon a young
Melbourne girl has been summarily dismissed
by a crowded (amateur) Bench which had rolled
up to see justice done. In this last instance,
the accused person was held guiltless on the
ground that the girl, being an admitted liar on
some points, was an inevitable liar in all direc-
tions. For a proved lie a motive could be seen
at a glance; for the supposed swearing there
was no very apparent reason brought forward.
A violated wench was asked to “ put a n one ”
to her violator, and she put one. Moreover,
she threw in certain particulars relating to the
assault which were so flatly contradicted by the
young man’s mother that the dismissal of the
case, without any mention of an indictment for
perjury one way or the other, was in itself a
caricature of justice. It seems that parsons
and parsons’ sons, in Melbourne, have no occa-
sion to clear their characters of suspicion in the
ordinary way.. A sympathetic Bench calls the
girl a perjuress, and there the matter ends.
Sometimes the crowd outside sets up a cheer,
and sometimes it howls exceedingly, but in
either case every thing is as right as right can be.
Frazer, in his anecdotic “ Disraeli,” thus
describes the genesis of the C.M.G. order :
When the lonian Islands were given up, the Order of
Sts. Michael and George fell into desuetude ; it had been
instituted at Lord Guildford’s suggestion on finding
that the members of the lonian Parliament actually
walked to St. Petersburg with a view to obtaining a
decoration. It was necessary to counteract this ; and St.
George for England, and St. Michael as the leader of the
celestial hierarchy, neither of whom were in any way
connected with the lonian Islands, were made the patrons
of the new order. The motto—“ Auspicium melioris
sevi” was and is singularly inappropriate; it should be
changed to “ Imperi Porrecta Majestas!” Of course,
when the Islands were given up there was no longer a
purpose in the Order. It occurred to me that it might be
made most useful as a reward for colonial services. I
brought forward the question in the House of Commons.
I had studied Lord Palmerston carefully, and I felt quite
certain that he would reply by telling the story, already
an ancient one, that William iv., at Brighton, complain-
ing of the persecution by the Mayor of some large town,
who pursued him even to his marine retreat, the King’s
son, Lord Adolphus Fitzclarence said, “I should ‘ Guelph’
him, Sire, at once,” another version being that the
King said, “I shall have to Guelph him,” and Lord A.
replied, “And serve him right, sire !”—that is, give him
the Guelphic Order. So accurately had I taken Lord
Palmerston’s measure that, notwithstanding I had nar-
rated this story, he said in his reply, “To repeat the
story already told by the honourable Baronet’’—and
went through it again. I remember Sir James Douglas,
at that time one of the few remaining K.C.M.G.’s, giving
tongue loudly during my harangue ; he did not want to
be diluted. However, the next year the order was re-
established on the lines suggested by myself, and I feel
sure that the broad blue and red ribbon has made many
an honest heart happy, and, to use the ivords of Falcon-
bridge, many a “ Joan a lady /”
To Australians this story carries its own moral.
♦-
Duuker, who swore the information against
the Mercantile Bank people, admits that he
would much rather there had been no pro-
ceedings ; but he “ had to do his duty,” Like-
wise, he admits that the Press which “ wrote
what was honest ” practically forced the pro-
ceedings. It is in the extraction of this sort of
evidence by cross-examination that David
Gaunson seems to find a mysterious comfort.
Gaunson’s one idea is to get indirectly an
opinion that bank prosecutions are calculated
to shake public confidence, whereupon he yells,
to all intents and purposes, “ Why don’t you
stop it?” Every now and then the Crown
counsel remind GaunsoN that his brazen-faced
cross-examining “is doing all the harm ” ; but
the hint is thrown away. Since the hot-headed,
ready-tongued attorney lost his seat in Parlia-
ment, and ceased to play at being a Radical, he
has become the champion of silence as regards
public scandals. Where once he would have
made an object of himself in demanding an
inquiry, he now argues that true patriotism
consists in shutting up. He comes into court
bearing a banner with the strange device,
“ Mum !”
Thus a Bulletix correspondent :
Re the coming theft of our railways, shall I tell you
what it will mean to me and to thousands of others in a
similar position? After the railway had been completed
to a certain town, I took up 160 acres of land and spent
on it several hundreds of pounds—all the money I
possessed and all I was able to earn for many years—in
improvements and cultivation. The fact that the State
owned the means of communication was regarded by me
as a guarantee that it would never be used to squeeze me,
as the American farmer is being squeezed by the railway
kings there. Without the railway my land is absolutely
valueless. It is only by reason of the moderate freights
charged that lam able to make a living. Now, suppose
the railway king got possession of the line, he could
either raise my freight or reduce that of my competitors
until I found'myself, by a little manoeuvring on his part,
indebted to him for the carriage of the season’s crop in an
amountfar exceeding what the sale of the produce realised.
He could then easily take my land and the improvements
upon it, and kick me out. He could do hs same all along
the line, and after getting possession of all the farms de-
pending upon it, he could lower the freights and let them
to tenants, then gradually sell out the farms to them, and
as soon as the money was all paid over and additional im-
provements made, he . ould raise the freights again and
absorb No. 2. He could send missionaries to each of the
various European countries in turn and induce immi-
grants to settle on his line, getting rid of them as soon as
desirable and re-settling the line with a new batch. A
privately-owned line is simply a man-trap. Boiled down
it simply amounts to—“ Will you walk into my parlour,”
&c.—W.H.M.
The S.A. “ Young Patriotic Ass ” recently
had a meeting at which 45 persons attended. It
is now whispered that the committee ordered, and
had to pay for, dinner for 250.
There is a bold, broad humour in the
stated determination of the Vic. Government to
suppress dummy transactions in bank shares, now
that the once roaring “bull” has drawn in his
horns and become a “ bear.”
THE TWO SIDES OF THE DUMMY.
It was not meet to legislate
Against the dummy buyer ;
He laboured bravely to inflate
And send the prices higher;
He purchased shares the livelong day,
Which kept the market “hummy,”
And everybody used to pray
“O Lord, preserve the dummy !” .
When Matthew Davies scattered gold
And’consciences wei'e aisy ;
In those ecstatic days of old
The dummy was a “ daisy. ’'
His dealings did not vex the Crown,
And, though his game wasflummy,
No Carter moved tor putting down'
That omnipresent dummy.
But when the fatness turned to lean,
And pastures green grew yeller,
The dummy changed his mood and mien—
He started as a seller.
From low to lower dropped the shares,
And everyone looked glummy ;
A change came o’er financial prayers—
“O Lord, confound the dummy !”
An evil was the dummy then
Who once had been a blessing ;
“This conduct,” said the “ leading men,”
“ Needs very prompt suppressing.”
In bearing down and raising price
\Ve, therefore, see (how rummy!)
-The difference ’twixt simple vice
And virtue in the dummy.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at tins office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Kweirkus” (Woll.): When the average big
drum squeaks in falsetto you may be able to striny: decent
poemlets and “scraplets." Meantime, “reach the
shadow-land ” as soon as you conveniently can, and let us
know about 44 the wind ” and the ** loving whispers.”.
“ Har Bee Libellous verse. Bulletin has already said
sufficient on the matter... “Beryl ” (Hobait, Tas.): Your
girly-girly verses, being translated into prose, mean that
the Hobart fair have the “yellow-fever" badlv “The
Bard of Woolloomooloo ” : “ Tit for Tat ” spoilt by being
bad law. Any such verdict would be reversed on appeal
as against evidence....“ Walter G.” (M., N.S.W.); You
tell nothing in a labyrinth of words.... 44 Willy ama **:
Thanks “E.L.”: Too far-fetched, and tame at that
.... ' Alpha Crusis ” ; Yams about old murders revealed
by ghost-pantomime are played out. Your “droning"
experience has evidently been equally shadowy. ..“Ben
Demmy"; Does the man run “two shows”? If so, in
what part of the street named? “The Prooshan":
Thanks.... “Acis ” (Ipswich, S.Q.): Ourstraightopinion?
You yearn beyond your strength. Try again, within your
own knowledge and powers.... “ J.H.G.” : “ Old Gou-
lard ” we take to he a translation. Is not that so?
“Tamtam”: Your odorous story declined “Shin
Fane ’ (B.): So; the inspector boxed the ears of the
schoolmaster’s son, the schoolmaster punched the inspec-
tor, who suspended him, and then the dominie blew his
own head in tw0.... “ Y.Z.” (Sydney, N.S.W.): Briefly,
you advocate that a man should have a.i extra vote for
thrift every time he becomes a father. Think it out.
What might this mean in the way of political temptation
to sterile and ancient fat men who marry young wives?
.. .“A Reader” (Cairns, N.Q.): Too fly-specky for a
picture.... “ Mulga ” Bridge (Q.): Already to hand from
another quarter. Thanks....“ Bunrlarrania ” : Published
already, so unavailable here... “T.K.” (M.L.): A dozen
such articles would fill the whole pauer. Condense
“Subscriber”: Yokohama. Many thanks....“ E.K.” :
As to the pure ethical aspect of the matter : Suppose now
the Melbourne tram-workers strike when their masters
join the Employers’Association ?... “ Essem ” : A hack-
neyed theme.. .“A Patriot”: You got drunk and
were run in. Pooh! Martyrdom is cheap
“An Occasional Correspondent ’: The race-meeting at
Booligal, with particulars about all the local tank-sinkers,
isn’t of general interest.... “ Constant Reader ”: As you
say they are putting hack the washed-away houses on
their allotments we don’t see much to complain of
“ Tobul ”: We can’t stand the man who calls a plain
horse “a fl»ry steed.” Abjure cheap spread-eagleism like
that.... “Tne VVirroo ”: (1) Matthew Davies, regarded as
a K.C.M.G., is already abolished, and this paper is going
to keep him abolished. (2) Hindustani and Esquimaux
rhymes don’t count. There are no English rhymes for
“orange” or “month.” (3) “Arise 'mid blood and
shriek and squash ” is forcible, but we aren’t arising at
present, (4) “ Bendy ”is a wheeze that was created on
the Fifth Day or earlier.... “G. 8.” (Wellington): Your
svvagmen are indigestible and heavy on the stomach..
“Ferry”; The Balmain ferry-boat isn’t a good subject
for poetry....“ F.C.” (Auckland): The love-lorn maid
who fled backwards because her back hair had fallen off,
is below par—“J.M.” (Camoola): Your suggestion
that Queensland Parliament should “compel the
men to marry the women” is good, but which
woman any given man compelled to marry? ...
“ Fred E.” (15.): Condense, and you will be saved.
Also write each separate item on a separate sheet
“ Swamp Oak ”: The best poem on earth doesn’t read
well when it takes six men to decipher it, and the discus-
sion ends in a fight ...“A Waler”: Will condense vio-
lently and use.... “ R.D.S.”; (1) Plain drivel about
a squatter who couldn’t pay his overdraft. (2) The
“ mumsy-wumsy ” and “delightful old muzzy” kind of
dialogue is sickening pap. (3) Only amounts to this;
Mickey married, and drank till he was bloated and bank-
rupt, and then died horribly in a pub “ Eric the Red"
(Creswick): The language is red, anyhow. .. “ Sky Blue”:
Pretty verse, hut, alas! the Chinaman, as he pours horrors
over his cabbage, sings an altogether different hymn to a
very different tune “The Smoker’-’: Tales of the
scraggy Belinda and her betrayal by the “desolator” are
very haggard humour “ Aramanga ” : Will probably’
use, if only to make the average parson ashamed of the
way he wallops his borrowed horse over a heavy road
“ G. 0.”: Cain didn’t ask if he was his sister’s keeper,
anyhow “ Constant S.” (Como) : (1) The custom does
not obtain in Australia. (2) Sydney D.T. was originally
established by a co. 13 or 14 years ago “ Molong School
of Arts” let al .): We don’t publish The Bulletin for the
good of our health, or for pure philanthropy. We run it to
make a living, not to provide free reading for our numerous
enemies. The Bulletin subscription is £1 yearly, and
postage, strictly in advance. If we could, we’d supply
the paper to no reading-room under £5O a year
“ Tom G.” : Self-praise would he no recommendation....
“Janty”: Distraught, but not distraught enough
“C.W.” (East Melbourne); Your letter returned.... “J,
Fairnie ’’ (Maryborough, Vic.): Good sentiment in rickety
verse.... “The Biters Bit”: Better enquire at P.O
“Joe the Cook ”: A slab of bald improbability “Black
Jay ” (8., Vic.): Good—“J.K.” (Maoriland): You say
hardly anything in three columns. The summing-up on
the Day of Judgment will he yards shorter than your
article. Start with something nearer three lines
“ Murwillurabah ” (N.S.W ); (1) We hope that every local
editor will move to have The Bulletin struck off the
newspaper-list of every public reading-room. The clergy
and the “ right-thinking ” brigade would have to buy the
paper then, instead of reading it as sly deadheads.
“ A.Z.”: Badly manipulated, and flattest when most
stilted. You get a cattle-muster in what is evidently
sheep country ; there is an undrained swamp in a drought;
and a lone widow watching a corpse at a head-station.
Where were the station blacks? “ Mugwump” ; (1)
Better state particulars to a lawyer, and see whether your
case can’t he catalogued as “ desertion.” (2)Suhmit your
work to any of the many illustrated papers “ Country-
man ” : Petitions are mere blank cartridges, like abstract
resolutions. A make-believe noise retards reform.,..
“ M.J.P.” (Forest Lodge): Some seem original; most are
commonplace or re-hashes.
In London alone there are said to be
300,000 domestic servants. There are, however,
only 50,000 policemen.
Speaker Tom Bent has the “cheek” to
Suppose, or to assert, that he has been a marked
man ever since the time when, being Minister of
Vic. Railways, he “ took upon himself to abolish
to a certain extent the free passes to the Press.”
Thomas doesn’t regard himself as the typical
blusterer who hangs like a millstone round the
neck of his bleeding country—as a red-faced
incubus to the development of political civilisa-
tion, created by the ghastly ignorance and mean
local interests of his Brighton constituents. No
human power can ever convince this painful speci-
men of a Speaker that his old-time victory over
George Higinbotham at the poll was a national
calamity. The gentleman positively believes that
newspaper reporters will snort at him from genera-
tion to generation because he took away free
passes from the Press, whilst offering special baits
for people to pitch their tents at Brighton. Bent’s
bounce is insufferable. Of all his doings in that
dim railway long ago, nothing is remembered now
save that he once rushed from his office in his
shirt-sleeves shrieking for somebody’s gore. Bent
present is quite sufficient for the average jour-
nalist to object to, without troubling about Bent
past.


1*1" LE A.DS THEM A.T .T..
THE MUTUAL LIFE OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to, and in-
cluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS art
£35,900.000; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS; ani>
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENNIE, General Manager.
principal Agency—l3l gitt (Street, Sydney, S-&W-
Branches—473 Collins Stmst, Mblbouiuoi ; 223 Quton Struct. Brisbane
TheWhiteH<
The Old Blervd
WKisKy
cf iKe
WHI
tE Hor
'Cell.'
DIRECT MOM DISTILLERS
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MTU <*-
* ««TII«U SCOTCH MALT
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Man to Man.”
Lyceum “The Bohemian Girl.”
Criterion. “ The Village Priest.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “Robbery Under Arms.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Mountebanks.”
Theatre Royal “ The Double Event.”
Opera House Variety Company
Bijou “The Adventuress.”
Alexandra Drama.
“ Miss Esmeralda,” the most operatic of
the Gaiety repertoire, was revived at Sydney
Lyceum, April 1, with a few changes in the cast,
and a great rush of paint to the chorus. Addie
Conyers (still in skirts) played the “dear Mes-
raeriser ” in the careless Gaiety way that seems so
hard for other people to acquire. Though the
music was both above and below her there were
encores and market-baskets for her principal solo.
Lelia Roze, as Phoebus, seemed too occupied in
remembering to keep her heels together, and that
she musn’t be unladylike, to swamp Nellie Barren
in the part —also, she suffered greatly from having
nobody to wink at in the side boxes. The Gaiety
“regulars” in the old harness played with their
usual measure of success as a general thing.
Alice Leamar seemed longing for fresh galleries
to conquer, and a mist seemed to have passed
over Courtneidge’s glory as Corporal Gringoire.
Lonnen has a lot to do as Claude Frollo, but he
bounded through the last production of the
Gaiety season most springfuliy. Haslem put
melodrama into his sketch of Quasimodo, and the
floating Alice Lethbridge fluttered like a saltatory
Jack-o’-Lantern, luring to artistic destruction the
beefy society girl who attempts to follow her fairy
footsteps. The new drop, by Goatcher, was
heartily applauded. It represents a trio of young
ladies, in economical clothing, casually gossiping
in mid-air and surrounded by artistically-painted
white satin curtains, which threaten to fall and
hide them. It is a most artistic and taking thing.
»* * *
English Opera steps into the Gaiety Co.’s
shoes at Sydney Lyceum this Saturday night, when
the season opens with Balfe’s “ Bohemian Girl ”
—perhaps the most barrel-organed opera in the
world. Annis Montague appears as Arline, Charles
Turner as Thadeus, assisted by Edward Farley,
Cicely Staunton, Leopold, Rosevear and others,
“Carmen,” good old “Maritana,” and the less
known “Lily of Killarney,” follow the “Girl,”
which is billed for six nights.
** * *
The return of Alfred Dampier to Sydney
was hailed by an ovation whicli filled the Royal
to the doors and hung its tail out on the stairs
to cool. N For several years past there has been a
certain indefinable craving in the public mind of
that city—a longing for something that was
neither drink nor tobacco-juice, but which refused
to be more definitely located—the sentiment of the
infant howling in the night and knowing not the
wherefore of his howl. But now the people realise
that what they wanted was Dampier. That
gentleman is one of the institutions of New South
Wales, and his absence creates a void that no one
else can satisfy. Not even the most gorgeous
of actor managers with ten times his re-
sources in the way of limelight and blue
paint could fill Dampier’s place; and therefore
Sydney rose with one unanimous vociferation to
welcome him back. He looks no older than he did
when he hung out at the forgotten Gaiety years
ago, neither, for that matter, does daughter Lily,
whose pathetic dark eyes are as bright as ever.
Only it is gratifying to note that this young lady
isn’t so doleful in her methods as she used to be ;
in former times her one serious defect was that
she played as if a secret sorrow lay heavy on
her chest, but this feature isn’t nearly so notice-
able as it used to bo. “ Robbery Under Arms ” is
just the same as of old; a great spectacle
in ten exceedingly beautiful scones over
which Mr. Tischbnuer lias spent many
pounds of paint and a lot of valuable genius.
There are enougii precipices, mountain Ranges,
patches of summer sea, bits of dark-green bush,
forest views, sunsets and thunderstorms among
the ten scenes to make a highly respectable pic-
ture-gallery. The company numbers a hun-
dred or thereabouts, among them being Messrs.
Hodson, Leston, and Piimmer, Miss Julia Mer-
ton, and other reliable favourites. Miss Rose
Dampier also earns a reasonable amount of
applause, and though the public hasn’t quite
made up its mind about this young lady
the general impression is favourable. But
the beloved Alfred, as the gentlemanly bush-
ranger, and Miss Lily performing reckless
feats on a brown horse, are the mainstays of the
show. “Robbery Unde'r Arms” has the great
merit of being distinctly Australian and is of the
bush bushy ; the mere fact that there are in it a
person named Jim, and four characters who are
more or less called Bill, puts this beyond dis-
pute. The four include Arizona Bill, Whistling
Bill, King Bill, and Bill, the small boy, and these
alone are enough to command success,
** * *
“A Village Priest” will be put up at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday. The “ Priest ”is
almost unadulterated tragedy from the first line
to the last j still,, in Melbourne, which is
not usually a tragedy-loving city in these
days, it proved one of the best among the
B. &B. Oo.’s many successes. No change is yet
announced at Her Majesty’s, where the public is
still trying hard to think out the full and complete
mystery of the railway collision, and, Up to date,
time has written no wrinkle on the azure brow of
this tremendous smash, Mr. H. Barrington,
formerly of the Alhambra, is now lessee and
manager at the Opera House, where new
comedians, corner-men, ventriloquists, banjoists,
and dancers have lately been laid on with a lavish
hand.
** * *
A great outbreak of high-kickers, about
twenty-five ladies dressed in electric lights, the
Spanish Students, and a frantic song and dance,
described as the “Rowdie-Dowdie Boys,” are
recent attractions at Sydney Tivoli. A Iso, Harry
Rickards now touches a responsive chord in the
great soul of the audience with a new London
song, “ My Old Dutch,” which, on more than one
occasion, has led to him being recalled seven times
in succession. The secret of the immense excite-
ment over “My Old Dutch” is not distinctly
apparent, but no one can argue against a success—
especially one which shakes the building from its
chimney-top to its lowest foundations.
** * *
The Jubilee Singers, a new lot and minus
poor Johnson, raised the mournful negro songs once
more at Sydney Centenary Hall on Monday
night. And the city which goes mad over the
coster howl and the person who has chucked up
the push for his donah came in large numbers,
and with much enthusiasm, to hear them.
Such camp meeting hymns as “Judge-
ment Day is Rolling Round,” “ Roll, Jordan,
Roll,” and “Did the Lord deliver Daniel,”
apparently made the greatest impression. Reli-
gious sentiment evidently goes best when it is
banged out to tunes that are fast and furious,
while the venerable, slow-going hymn falls on
rocky ground. Mr. Orpheus M'Adoo, who runs
the show, and Misses Ball and Mattie Allen are
among the strongest features in the new combina-
tion, but however good they may be, The Bulle-
tin would still like to. see the lost Johnson
rescued from his troubles, and put up again, clothed
and in his right mind, to sing “A Hundred
Fathoms Deep,” or thereabouts. Nothing can
quite obliterate Johnson’s memory, somehow.
** * *
The story of "The Mountebanks” is gaudily Sicilian,
It doesn’t introduce you to a commonplace civilian :
The chorus-men are bandits, while the ladies pass for
peasantry,
Whose only occupation is a daily round of pleasantry.
There's a dapper tenor yokel most extravagantly charming
(His patent-leather shoea are scarcely suitable to farming),
An unfortunate contralto treats this darling as a fetish,
But he’s gone upon “another” who is. callously coquet-
tish.
The rival ladies quarrel, as the custom of their sex is,
Till a wizard kicks the bucket, leaving naught to pay his
exes.,
Except a little bottle full of magic liquor, dooming
Its drinkers to conversion to the parts they were assuming.
Then people who were rummy turn unquestionably
rummer:
The woe is Flora Graupner and her Miserable Mummer !
They had played at being figures in a travelling museum,
So their innards turn to clockworks ; and the bandits sing
Te Deum,
Having dressed in monkish garments with a view to deeds
unlawful
(The girls they meant to marry think that celibacy’s
awful.)
A tender, blooming bride becomes a gouty dame on
crutches,
The yokel is a duke, and the contralto is a duchess
And the maiden he was “gone on” finds the love she
simulated
Is an unrequited passion for the man she under-rated,
There has never been such trouble since the time of Cain
and Abel,
But luckily the bottle of the wizard had a label;
And when that bit of paper at a candle flame is lighted
The awkward situation is immediately righted,
For everyone recovers with an incidental shiver,
And Flora Graupner’s “ works ” are superseded by her
liver.
• # *.
“ The Mountebanks,” produced at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday, is a comic opera of
the earlier Gilbertian kind. The characters fall
victims to a philtre, as in “The Sorcerer,” and
the effect produced upon them is exactly opposite
to the influence of “The Palace of Truth,” where
all the inmates were compelled to come out as
their real selves. Here we have them
changed to what they were feigning to be when
they drank the wizard’s mixture,'the humour of
which idea is most eccentric in the case of George
Lanri and Flora Graupner, whose humanity
becomes merged into automatic figures of, Hamlet
and Ophelia.. At first hearing “The Mounte-
banks ” seemed many degrees less taking than it
might have been. The best points of the dialogue
were but feebly interpreted in most cases, and
neither the Conductor nor the principals made the
music “go ” as it probably will go presently.
Under any circumstances the hurried finale must
be a disappointment. It was cut short, one
imagines, that the opera might be completed
before Alfred Cellier died. A chronic fogginess in
the voice of May Pollard,, the prima donna of this
occasion, prevents her from making the most of
the coquette character, but she looks and acts to
good advantage. On Saturday, too, May im-
proved as she went along and brought forth some
capital high notes. Braoy was brighter and more
chirpy than of late, but Leumane, who once pro-
mised to come out as a funny man, has gone in
again. Howard Vernon and Ida Osborne were
too rough and too tame respectively, while the
automatic business aforementioned, though comic
enough at the first attempt, will beat a lot more
Working up. Ryley, as a bandit transformed into
a monk, will also stand improvement. In fact*
every distinct feature of “The Mountebanks’”
initial performance might have been a little better;
but the general get-up of the show, for which
Gordon has painted two beautiful scenes, indi-
cated managerial expectation of a long and pro-
sperous run.
&* * *
George Darrell duly carried out his threat
of reopening Melbourne Royal with an entirely
new T and original racing drama, and at 10 p.m. his
docile steed, Caloola, may be seen wobbling in for
the Melbourne Cup with several spavined rivals
wobbling after. The straggle for the Cup is a
sick spectacle as compared with a circus steeple-
chase, therefore, “ The Double Event ” cannot be
honestly described as the author’s masterpiece.
Even his liberality in the matter of horses is un-
fortunate, seeing that they all fly across the stage
at such a ghastly jog-trot, and simply aggravate
an absurd effect. Now, if George had written an
epidemic which would carry off the other horses
after the numbers went up, and leave Caloola to
walk over for the Cup, then the victory of the
gallant animal might have been taken seriously.
Or if George had entered himself for the
Oup, and came romping in by six lengths,
with his noble head in his chest, and
a band playing ! Our oath ! George fully ex-
tended, showing his heels to the quadrupeds
from just below the distance-post! “ The Double
Event ” is a drama that consists on the one hand
of George Darrell backing Caloola, and on the
other of a seedy villain who doesn’t mean to let it
win. When George wants to book a few more
thousands about his famous colt he goes to the
villain, and the villain lays the odds, The man
isn’t good enough to trust, for five shillings, but
George has a beautiful faith in the infallibility of
credit betting. If the “Tiger” were to offer two
millions to one against Caloola, the confiding
George would take him at his word and sneer
haughtily. He bills himself as “a plunger,” and
bases his human interest upon the inanity of his
wagers. His noblest characteristic is an airy
determination to be hopelessly ruined if Caloola
can’t win the “double,” and when he sits gazing
in the moonlight at the stable door, with a book-
maker’s fair daughter by his side, he talks to her in
the language of touts, like Claude Melnotte quot-
ing the latest training reports. It is most afflict-
ing to hear him tell the darling of bis heart that
Oaloola’s gallop gave great satisfaction, and to
hear him cry, in the hour of the villain’s apparent
triumph, that he (George) will, if necessary, allow
his horse to complete the Double Event on three
legs. As an instance of self-sacrifice this beats
George’s record up to date. Robert Inman, Kelly,
Charles Brown, George Carey, Poulton, Greena-
way, Edith Blande, Ida Herbert, and Jennie Lee
play parts in this original racing drama, and
George Darrell plays the rest in a decidedly im-
proved style. He gives an appearance of sanity
to his character, which is no small thing to do
under the circumstances. But his style is ham-
pered, so to speak, by the lack of a red-flannel
shirt and a few yards.of strong dialogue.
* *- * *■
The Alexandra made another melancholy
appeal to the public on Saturday, but the new
season started with the death-mark on its clammy
brow, An Irish drama, entitled “ Ayma-na-
Nick,” was placed before a meagre audience in a
meagre manner, and after the curtain fell the
management treated the company and sundry
other people to a banquet on the stage. A pity
that this lavish outlay wasn’t expended in sand-
wiches and beer for the people who bought tickets.
They looked hungry enough as they left the
theatre. People visit a theatre to be amused —•
not to be preached at.
** * *
On Saturday next (April Bth) the Bijou
will resume operations under Amory Sullivan’s
management. “The Adventuress,” a sassiety
drama, gives a fairly promising speculation its
send - off, and James Cathcart is pushing on
the rehearsal of this novelty with much vigour.
*****
Melbourne Opera House variety show was
furbished up again on Saturday, and many other
places were in holiday request. The Seraphina
Orchestra (a sera pinna being a glorified concertina)
obtained a respectful hearing at the Town Hall
again on Monday, and the “ Jerusalem ” Cyclo-
rama has more charms for true Christianity than
could be found in “ Waterloo.” Also the Exhi-
bition entertainment ranges from dumb panto-
mime to cow-milking by machinery. Altogether,
Melbourne seems to be having quite a burst.
BEHIND THE SCENES.
The actor struts his little hour.
Between the limelight and the band j
The public feel the actor’s power,
Yet nothing do they understand
Of all the touches here and there
That make or mar the actor’s part.
They never see, beneath the glare,
The artist striving after art.
To them it seems a labour slight
Where nought of study intervenes ;
Yon see it in another light
When once you’ve been behind the scenes.
For though the actor at his best
Is, like a poet, born not made,
He still must study with a zest
And practise hard to learn his trade.
So, whether on the actor’s form
The stately robes of Hamlet sit,
Or as Macbeth he rave and storm,
Or plays burlesque to please the pit;
’Tis each and all a work of art,
That constant care and practice means—
The actor Who creates a part
Has done his work behind the scenes.
THE BANJO.
At Poverty Point.
“Miss Genevieve Ward gives the utmost impressiveness
to the part of the malignant Eleanor, even the harsh*
unpleasant voice being an advantage in this instance,”
says a London paper. The assumption that Genevieve’s
harshness of voice is chronic makes one smile. “ Porget-
me-Not,” as we remember her in Australia, could talk
like a lute, or the lost chord of a cathedral organ. She
had a be-eautiful voice.
When Thornton was running “The Private Secretary”
and “Sweet Lavender,” At Melb. Alexandra, he used to
make a point of counting, from the stage, the number of
people in the dress-circle. Then he would require full
particulars respecting the dead-heads, and before the
show was through he would know exactly who had paid
and who hadn’t. Thus, Thornton was able to say how
much of the circle applause represented hard cash, A
very careful man was the llev. Spalding.
A stern critic says of the acting of Irving’s son,
Lawrence, in a recent piece : “It was so bad that his papa
should forbid him ever to go upon the stage again.”
Now, Ellen Terry’s son, “ Gordon Craig,” is always
allowed to be a bright young actor. ’Tis the mother who
supplies most of the brains"-though, indeed, the father of
fair Ellen’s “morganatic” children was a gifted man.
Sign of the times—scenic artists doing sign-painting.
Maud Williamson in a new light—as lecturess, with the
sacred Magic Lantern, Melb. Exhibition, Good Friday.
Two siffleuses in Melbourne. Mrs. Shaw will have to
find some other way.
Genevieve Ward trains actresses. She boasts she has
kept more off the Stage than any one else living.
Madame Philipini is Mrs. Royce’s successor as ballet-
mis’rCss with Williamson and Musgrove, in Melb. She is
to give tuition gratis, and the cracks who dev,elope will
get engagement^’
H. P. Lyons, with his Tourists Party, is back from
India, and will open shortly in one of the Sydney halls.
One of the Greenwo6d girls, it is reported, Ins eloped
and got mafried.’
Frank Thpimton has signed with Musgnv;; for another
tour in Australia. He will, of course, i nee more be the
Rev. Robert Spalding, but there will be other pieces in
his repertoire. He was most anxious to get hold of
“ C'mrley's Aunt,” but Penley means to keep that gold-
mine to himself. At present, says Tim HollktiS’B Lon-
don correspondent, it. is crushing for him £BOO nett
weekly.
Three Sydney theat es and one music-hall are now open
with variety shows. Emboldened by Rickards' success
Charlie Fannins-, the Cornstalk black-face comedian'
opens the Standard with another “mixed ’’ show. One’
if not more, of the five must go down.
The passenger-list of a British-India steamer contain]
the names of Mr. T. V. Twinning and the liev. and Mrs
Shaw. The celebrated sifileuse is the wife <t a narsrm'
then ? Prison,
Half the Australian theatres are being turned into
music-halls as a consequence df the declension of wao-es
more nearly to the British slandard and 1 ick of employ,
ment. Low wages means a degraded taste in art, just as
it means shoddy clothing, adulterated food; drugged
drink, “jerry ” houst fc, and trashy literature.
A London music-hall vocalist extemporised a joke
recently. He was final “ turn ” at the Trocadero. The
people were rapidly clearing out, so he hurried thtxndi
his first song and gave them “ God Save the Queen ” for
his second.
Geo. Edwardes, manager of the Gaiety Co , says that
the loss of Fred. Leslie was the greatest misfortune that
ever befell him.
Herbert Flemming is once more with the Achurch-
Oharrington Co. Baroness Burdett-Coutts is said to be
backing the comely Janet.
Anson will probably be back in Australia shortly.
In Japanese theatres, if you go out between the acts
you don’t get a check. The doorkeeper grabs your hand
and rubber-stamps you.
Harry Young, brother df Florence, claims to have taught
“Mr. Atkinson ” much of what he knows. “Mr. Atkinson ”
being step-son of Dr. Hewlett, of Fitzroy, Melb., is thus
brother of “Mr. Ernest Blackham,” of Melbourne
Rotunda Sunday concerts.
Wal. Harland, managing Woddyear’s Circus for widow
Woodyear, got his hippodrome wrecked by an infuriated
riiob of Chinese at the coolie-shipping port of Swatow. A
coolie had got some blood on his face in a crowded
squeeze, and the Chinkies got the idea that Harland had
wounded the man with a sword. Everything portable
was broken up and only the horses were saved. Harland
got no redress from the British Consul —“a veritable old
woman, timorous, shaky, utterly unfit for responsibility”
—and was glad to clear out to avoid the fulfilment of a
mob threat to kill the horses.
A certain individual is making himself just a little
ridiculous just now by the way he button-holes Melbourne
pressmen, and implores them “ not to forget my youngest,
my own ewe lamb.”
Ed. B., —Publicans who went to see the “ Old Guai d ”
smiled when they heard the Mayor state that the jug-trade
is grand, as if that were something to be proud of.
Every pubber knows that there is absolutely nothing to be
made out of jug-trade—rather the other way.—VV.D.
Civil Service Boss: “Want leave, sir; what for?’
Fashionable Clerk : “ Urgent private theatricals.”
For long runs by individula actors the records show
thus: David James, in "Our Boys,” IWilson Barrett,
in “ Olaudian,” 2 ; Charles Hawtrey, in “ The Private
Secretary,” 3; J. L. Toole, in "The Don,” 4.
Photographer Downey, of London, took three hundred
negatives of Letty Lind during 1890.
When G. C. Miln was touring the back-blocks of U.S.A.,
he one night observed an old lady in the front row dis-
solved in tears. Flattered and gratified, he sent an usher
to say that the tragedian would like to see her after the
show. When they met, Miln remarked, in those richly-
buttered tones, “My acting moved you, I perceived.”
“ It did that, sir,” said the old dame ; “you see, sir, I’ve
got a son myself play-actin’ down in Kentucky some-
where, an’ it broke me all up to think that mebbe he
warn’t no better at the game than you, sir.” Miln sought
the fresh air.
Duncan Macallurn sends The Bulletin a yarn about
how, by personal canvass, he wheedled tlje seven directors
of the Adelaide (S.A.) Steamship Co. out of 17 return
tickets from Port Adelaide to Fremantle (VV.A.)onhis
own note of hand, payable a month after he should open
in the latter city ; he being stonebroke in Adelaide, with
a company of all-round performers, two or three oS
whom were in the good old bottle-ael.
He says the p.n. was honoured. Which spoils the story.
The Unknown : “ Reading your notice of Bistori mash-
ing Salvini, I shuddered under a fearful thought-What if
Plain Billolloway was mashed?”
Young Majeroni, son of the tragedian, acts with
Bentley, in Adelaide.
The Melb. Alhambra catches on, and plays havoc with
the other halls.
Luscombe Searelle is in England securing music-halli
talent, as both “ the legitimate drama ” and comic opera
are played out for a time in South Africa.
Those who assert that George Rignold is played cut
should see him play the part that Cates walked through
as if afraid of his own shadow.
Harry Jewett is Legree, to Peter Jackson’s Uncle Tom,
at Stockvvell’s theatre, ’Frisco. Peter is a great improve-
ment on Sullivan as an actor. They say Jewett was afraid
to call Jackson, “a nigger ” at rehearsal.
George Leitoh, aided, by Mrs. Keightley, during Easter,
was playing, at Hobart, “ a new drama of bush life,”
founded on the bushranging incident in which the lady
was chief actor.
There are at least a dozen suitable ways of interpreting
the name-part in “Mikado.” Quite recently Alan
Morris’s young and festive way came as a revelation, and
Rosevear, at Melbourne Princess’s last week, was another
novelty. Rosevear’s method is the very antithesis of his-
predecessor’s. He is a fat, fatherly Mikado, a genial,
quiet old chap on the surfaft, with a rare taste for
cruelty in an odd corner of his heart. His “ I forget the
punishment for compassing the death of the Heir Appar-
ent” was given with all the eagerness of a wheezy sinner
who wants to think of another naughty story before youi
tear yourself away.
“You don’t become a critic by hating, but loving,”—
Saintsburv.
Melbournian : “ Just now I met the favourite columbine
of Melbourne pantos. 30 years ago. Her nose would give
her away anywhere.”
The only fault in the Jerusalem Cyclorama i$ making:
the cross so high, whereas it was only a small affair,,
standing about 6 feet out of the. ground. Otherwise the-
sufferer could not have carried it.
The “ Span of-Life” is the latest New York sensation'
drama. Three acrobats, pile up on one pair of legs, them
fall forward, and thus bridge a chasm, when the heroine:
runs over their backs.
Fillis, brother of our Filllis, is the equestrian star of
Renz’s Circus, Berlin.
Strange that amongst the names of those who have-
attempted to write a play founded upon the “martyr-
dom” of Thomas fi’Becket, that of an old Melbourne
identity, W. H. Ak.hurst, should have been omitted. Audi
yet he was not the least successful in producing a good'
play, we are told by an old theatre-goer, who recollects-
seeing it, performed at London Surrey.
One Loraine and his wife have just recovered £lBo'
(with heavy costs) for salary from the well-known firm of
Potter and Bellew. They were under engagement to
tour in South Africa with Cora Potter's Co., and when at.
fire put an end to that frosty venture, they were dismissed'
incontinently. Loraine, when he returned to England,,
sued Cora and Curley for full salary. They would, how-
ever, in all probability have lost their case had it not been
for the fortuitous arrival of Luscombe Searelle In Londom
He was af once subpoenaed, and his evidence settled the
business. But it is not certain that plaintiffs are now a>
bit nearer to getting their money.
Grace Hawthorne, of the Olympic Theatre, recently
sued London Fun for libel in innocently stating that she
was the wife of her acting-manasrer. The journal hadt
retracted the soft impeachment, but Grace regarded the
mistake as an insult only to be wiped out with damages.
She didn’t get any.
A new girl midget from Buenos Ayres is 16 years old*-,
20in. high, and 15Il>s. in weight. But she is'almost a
giantess by comparison with defunct Lucia Zarate, the
Mexican atom who, as a young woman, couldn’t turn the--
scale at Bibs.


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January , 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,292,016 ss. Id.,
and its SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,-157.808 ss. Id., being the LARGEST
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It docs the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Kotk —This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
Insurance Department. The Assets,' Accounts and Surplus to Policy holders have been certified to under the seal of
the State by the Insurance Superintendent,
PEMELL’S
A.B.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
BURROUGHES
AND—
WATTS, LTD
BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
r Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
when W. B. Sheridan, many years ago, was touring
Mom-Hand “King Lear” was to be the opening piece In
Certain city. Sheridan, of course, took the King, Monty
Moitlond was Albany, and Harry Saville (he of the eye-
S was Cornwall. Harry and Monty were to dress
together the room assigned them being under the stage.
An iusuection, however, it proved to be so damp and rat-
that thev determined to seek fresh quarters.
V n h v found them in an unused cellar beneath the
orchestra. By some accident, however, they omitted to
tell anyone of the change. On the opening night, Saville
and Maitland both happened to arrive early, and each had
brought a bottle of beer to christen the new den with.
Having dressed, they lit their pipes and opened the bottles.
Presently a few minutes before eight, the orchestra
wfn They heard, and waited. Eight o’clock came,
nfit no call They waited—and the orchestra continued
to scrape. At 8.10, still no call, and the orchestra still
i-nino- strong At 8.15 they concluded that the call-boy
Ct have tied or something, so climbed to the stage
without further waiting. As their heads appeared above
he stage, they heard Sheridan’s fruity voice exclaim:
•■Here the are ;up with the curtain !” They had,
of course, to go on first, and their absence had delayed
the whole show. Things went on pretty right till that
.mint in the first scene where the King, Albany, and Corn-
wall go up stage and leave Cordelia and France in posses-
sion of the front. Then Sheridan opened fire. “Havel
come out here—l6,ooo crimson miles—to have to wait a
,i d half-hour on a couple of scurvy ike you ?
You call yourselves men, you skunks. Why, Ive
seen better men than you made out of paper by a ——
property man.” And so on. As his anger grew with
words Sheridan began to gesticulate madly, and swung
his arms all over the shop. The audience grew interested,
hut' not hearing his words, took his actions for clever by-
nhv and applauded loudly. The reason of the applause
did not strike Sheridan, but Maitland and Saville
<mv it, especially Saville, who rose to the
invasion and, hacking Maitland severely, hissed
“Fawn "you —-, fawn!” and Maitland and he fawned
accordingly. And, as Sheridan went on cursing, those
two wretches punctuated his remarks with fawmngs and
cringings, to the huge delight of the audience. Sheridan,
however thought their actions were in his contempt, and
continued until stopped by bis cue. He never forgave
them. One of the orchestra says it was the funniest thing
he ever saw—the cursing, infuriated Sheridan, the fawning
rogues taking advantage of him, and an audience con-
vinced that the whole incident was a gorgeous slab of
premeditated hy-play. And when the next day’s papers
complimented the three on “an admirable p> ece of
business,” the humour of the thing was complete.
Chas. Wyndham says that through the friction and
mutual ieaiov sies that spring up between stage lovers,
they are rarely friends, but Henry Neville says the true
artist is always as much in love with the heroine as she
will permit him to be.
A white sheet decorated with advts. was lowered bet-
ween the acts, in place of the usual drop curtain, at a
<> fl rs t class ” London theatre, and the audience hooted it
up again. Many cockneys go (o the theatre to escape
froinadvertisement hoardings.
Gone for ever— Melb. Opera House.
Says Max O’Rell: “You find wit amongst the lower
class of Irish and dry humour amongst the lower class of
Scotch, but you find neither wit nor humour amongst the
lower class of the English.”
Shakespeare, on the show mania of the British ; “When
they will not give a doit to relieve a lame beggar, they
will lay out ten to see a dead Indian.”—“Tempest,”
11., ii.
Walter Bentley relates that when Coppin managed Mel-
bourne Royal, in the old days, he (Bentley) applied for an
engagement, and was summarily ordered out of the office.
In 1891 Coppin placed that same office at his entire dis-
posal 1 Bentley only reminded Coppin of the circumstance
a few days ago. _
The National Observer: “Lowe abo-
lished imprisonment for debt in N.S. Wales, so
that a debt in Sydney is scarce to be recovered.”
Hebrews own six large London news-
papers—Daily News, D.T.' Financial News,
P.M. Gazette, E. News and Post, and St.
James’ Gazette.
Alexander James Scott, sentenced to
death at Auckland (M.L.), for the Waikomiti
murder, is the son of a highly-respected West Vic-
torian timber-merchant. He was always a quiet
unassuming young fellow, and had splendid pro-
spects had he remained in Victoria. The news of
his son’s conviction has nearly killed his aged
father.
Fat man Cleveland, the 18-stone President
of the U.S. (whore, by the way, is his acknow-
ledgement of the effusive congratulations of the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade party ?) “is to be sworn in
on his mother’s little morocco Bible. He was
sworn in on the same Bible in 1885.” This is the
sort of pathos Parkes understands —though, so far
as Parkes’ moral sentiments are concerned, he
would just as soon be sworn in on a copy of the
Decameron, oron a copy of Angus Cameron for that
matter. Cleveland is a favourite with the female
sex by virtue of these little snuffling hypocrisies
and travels largely on hen influence. At the same
time, if that little morocco Bible is put on a table
in front of him, and he has to reach over his
gigantic tummy to lay an impressive hand upon
it, The Bulletin expects to hear by cable that
Cleveland is very ill through violent compression
of the abdomen against the edge of the table, or
something.
At Adelaide, a little while ago, an aborigine
from the Queensland border was brought up on a
charge of murdering another coloured gentleman
from the same locality. The offender had been
dragged 850 miles by a policeman, who, for .about
300 miles of the journey, was kept busy staving off
the relatives of the deceased, who wanted to spear
the captive. There was no coherent evidence, and
the Chief Justice gave it as his decision that the
nigger ought to have been left where he was, to
fight it out with the other party the best way he
could—in other words, that the white man’s law is
a failure. The jury found that the prisoner was
“ unable to understand the proceedings owing to
his ignorance of English,” which was held to be
equivalent to a verdict of “ not guilty.” Then the
Court didn’t know what to do with the prisoner.
He obviously ought to be released, but that would
be tantamount to execution, as the plaintiffs in
the case were waiting for him on the homeward
track ; and he couldn’t be found “ not guilty ” and
executed at the same time; neither could he be
kept in prison for his own safety. So at last the
Court found, by way of compromise, that he was
mentally deranged, and he was sent off to a
lunatic asylum, and the dead man’s family will
wait on the back read in vain.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
The number of replies received in the prescribed
time totalled 1303, out of which only one com-
petitor—a Wagga (N.S. W.) lady—was successful
in naming the correct “missing word.” -The
commonest hazard of competitors was “Apostacy,
to which over 100 pinned their faith. Other
favourite guesses were : Weakness, Inconsistency,
Servility, Pusillanimity, Obsequiousness, &c.
“Mrs. K. A. E. Murray, Box 27, P.O., Wagga
Wagga, N.S. W.,” is to be congratulated as
having been the only contestant who chose
“ DUCTILITY,” a guess which is rewarded with
the whole amount received, .£65 3s., a cheque for
which amount has been mailed to the abov e
address.
The Land-Grab Map of Queensland.
The Bulletin departs somewhat from its ordinary
course this week in substituting for an original
cartoon a “Map” (drawn by Mr. H. F.
Hardacre, one of the Queensland Labour
candidates), which the courtesy of the con-
ductors of the Brisbane (Q.) Worker has enabled
us to reproduce. No apology, however, is needed
for giving a wide-spread publicity to a subject of
supreme Australasian importance. The Map is a
most eloquent picture, not only of the battle-
ground of the impending Queensland general
elections, but also ot the monstrous intrigue
against which the workers of the Northern pro-
vince are called upon to fight—the capture by
capitalistic sharks of a third of the whole province,
and practically the control of all the lands at
present unalienated from “the Crown a gigantic
invasion to repel which were worth a Civil War :
The map, remarks the Worker, is neither a jest
nor an exaggeration, but a solemn and earnest levlity.
Under the new Railways Construction (Land Subsidy) Act
of 1892, .passed last session by the most corrupt Parlia-
ment that has dominated Queensland, in violation of its
election pledges, and against the emphatic and repeatedly
expressed wishes of the people, eleven railways have been
approved, and their routes are even now being surveyed
by the agents of the land-grant syndicates at the pro-
vince’s expense, with the object of having the contracts
ratified by the next Parliament.
These eleven railways are as follows:
Mis.
Oharleville to Cunnaraulla *»DOUt 125
Charleville to Thargomindah ... 205
Oharleville to western boundary of province ... ~ 560
Longreach to western boundary of province ... ~ 420
Longreach to Winton » U®
Wiuton to Hughenden ... >■ 140
Hughenden to western boundary of province ... ~ 410
Nornianton to Cloncurry «• n 250
Granite Creek to Georgetown .. ... .. i> 185
Georgetown to Croydon ... .. .. •• »> 84
Gayndah to Degilbo » 40
Total .. .. .. •• 2534
In round numbers 2500 miies of railway costing about
twelve and a half millions sterling. The conditions under
which the railways are to be constructed are briefly :
1. That the railways remain the property oi the syndi-
cate for 50 years when without further purchase they will
become the property of the Government.
2. That they may become the property of the Govern-
ment immediately they are constructed without any pur-
chase except that which has already been made by
grants of land.
3. That they may remain the property of the syndicate
for any period up to 10 years when, in addition to the
grants of land, if the province desires to possess the rail-
ways, it must again pay for them.
If the railways are constructed on condition 1, the
amount of land the syndicates receive may equal in value
but not exceed twice the cost of construction. If on con-
dition 2: An amount equalling once the cost of construc-
tion. If condition 3: Once the cost of construction, and
at the end of 10 years or later, but not previously, a
further payment at their value in solid cash.
It is under either conditions 1 or 3 that the railways will
be constructed (if the people permit it) for no syndicate,
whose sole object is to get as much as possible, will con-
struct railways on condition 2, when under either of the
others it can get twice as much.
The Map represents the amount of land the syndicates
will obtain under condition 1, which is by far the most
likely to be taken advantage of.
Assuming that the 2500 miles of railway will cost £5OOO
a mile, which is a fair assumption, as the average cost of
the province’s railways in the past has been £6917 per
mile—£sooo was the amount assumed by members in the
Assembly during the discussion of the bill and was also
the estimated cost of the Kimberley Transcontinental
Railway from Charleville to Point Parker in 1883—and
estimating the value of land to be given at 2s. 6d. per acre
—MTlwraith’s estimate, and also the estimated value in
the Assembly, while Griffith declared the surface rights to
be worth only a shilling an acre—the total amount of land
to be grabbed by the syndicates wi 1 be 312,500 square
miles, or 200,000,000 acres. This amount the black lines
on the map approximately represent.
But this is not all !“Note with what consummate and
devilish genius the lines are designed to drain awa
from the Government railways the traffic now’ runniny
upon them and to transfer the whole of it over thg
syndicate railways up to the Gulf. It needs but a cone
necting line between Charleville and Longreach when the-
whole traffic of the interior now flowing towards the
coast, along the Southern and Western railways making
Brisbane, along the Central Railw'ay making Rock-
hampton, along the Northern Railway making Towns-
ville, will set in the opposite direction flowing towards
Nornianton. It needs but another connecting line to
transfer this again to Point Parker. All the coastal towns
will sink into insignificant villages and in their place will
rise Point Parker the largest city of Australia ; and the
title-deeds of Point Parker will be owned by the syndi-
cate. Property values will vanish like magic. All the vast
sums of money expended by the province in lighting the
eastern coast, in dredging rivers and constructing har-
bours, wdll have been money thrown aw'ay. While its
railways, upon which £16,000,000 have been spent, will
become mere feeders to the railways of the syndicate,
whose power and wealth and monopoly will overshadow
the land. Three hundred thousand pounds received from
the pastoral tenants annually—and which should be at
least a million—will be transferred into the pockets of the
syndicate. Representative Government also will be gone.
The Judges, the law courts, the local councils and parlia-
ment will be the mere puppets of the syndicate, for it will
buy them all. Freedom of contract would reign in all its
glory—the freedom to accept the syndicate’s terms or
starve.
H.F.H.
A Game Worth Watching.
Dear Bulletin, — Ever since the discontent of
moleskin sent into Parliament a contingent of
lawmakers, the anti-legislative New South Wales
Council has become more so. The cry of the
dwellers in the tents of the Ass has pierced the
slumberous atmosphere of the House of Prey.
The old gentlemen are now moved to stay up as
late as half-past ten of a night to express their
horror and loathing of the unpropertied voter,
the miner who wants to be allowed to mine, and
the tax-collector who would look towards realised
wealth instead of swooping upon poverty and
bluchers. The nominees have shown themselves
to be nominees of the Quadruped, and, with un-
wise heat and candour, have cursed every measure
emanating from the Assembly calculated to secure
better political and social conditions, as a machin-
ation of the ignorant, beer-soaked, covetous
masses.
* * *
They have emasculated the Electoral Bill into
conservative meaninglessness ; they have fired out
the Mining Bill; they are going to reject the
Income tax proposals. They have declared war
to the knife, and the knife to the hilt, against
everything savouring of democratic progress. Con-
sequently, the fingers of Democracy begin to itch
with a great yearning to compress their political
windpipes. Tommy Houghton, M.P., has written
to the papers urging the necessity of sending
into the Council, there to abide for ever
beside the bull - necked and broad - clothed
monopolists, a moleskin contingent who will
do just as the Assembly wishes. George
Reid wants an appeal to the country. - Each of
these proposals may be patriotic—and it mayn’t.
Tommy’s most notable utterance since his appear-
ance in public life was delivered during a troubled
address to his constituents, and consisted in the
simple inquiry, “Was that an egg?” followed by
an immediate vacation of the platform. He may
possibly not care about the bother of re-election,
which a dissolution would involve. Reid, in his
flabby political incertitude, has visions of Premier-
ship. Parkes the party will not have, Bruce
Smith evidently wants to keep to his Bar work,
M’Millan will not enter the lists, and Cash Neild
is an utter and hideous impossibility. Therefore,
Reid might tiptoe into what could hardly, in his
case, be called power, walking circumspectly be-
tween the people and the Ass. A general election
is the only way to the realisation of what would
please Mr. Reid, and wouldn’t do the country
much good.
* * •
It in’t likely that Dibbs will cry havoc and let
slip the horny-handed upon the Council.' He has
shown no inclination that way, and such conduct
would shock many of his friends who move in the
best circles in the United Kingdom. Nor is it
likely that if Reid were in his position he would
do it. What would Wentworth Court, and the
Clubs, and the Charpber of Commerce, and the
Right-thinking Person, and the best-paid cor-
morants of the Civil Service, to which Reid used
to belong, and which put him into Parliament, say
to a proceeding so revolutionary, so subversive
of the Best Interests of the Country ? And
though the multitude count at elections, they
do not count between whiles for much. So
I think it probable that Dibbs will go to the
country, when he can’t much longer help going, on
the Electoral Bill and the other rejected measures,
fulminating against the Council and winking the
other eye. The Opposition will do pretty much
the same thing, accompanied by incidental attacks
on Protection when it gets the chance. Anyhow,
it will take some time to make One-man-one-vote
the law of the land, and I don’t believe that the
leading men in either of the two big parties want
to ruffle the feelings of "the Council, or offend the
moneyed sentiment behind it any more than is con-
sistent with securing and hanging on to the Trea-
sury benches.
* • *
But what I want to specially point out is that
after One-man-one-vote has become law, as it
ultimately must, there is a big difficulty in the
way of its becoming praetice. And I know for
certain that if this difficulty hadn’t been there,
and hadn’t been clearly perceived by many of the
members who voted for equal electoral rights, they
wouldn’t have been so enthusiastic. The outside
Democratic mind appears to be satisfied that
when the Electoral Bill has been agreed to the
matter is practically done with, but a good many
members of Parliament know a lot better than
that. Single electorates with equal voting would,
in the event of the passing of the Local Govern-
ment Bill, kill the roads-and-bridges member.
But local Government is a thing of the remote
future, and the roads-and-bridges members count
on a long life and a merry one before it is accom-
plished. The provisions of the Electoral Bill, as
agreed to in the Assembly, would cut that life
short in most cases, if they could be carried out.
It is only in the sure and certain hope that they
can’t be carried out that they have been agreed to
by many, if not most, of the old members.
# * *
It is over the subdivision of the province into
new electorates on the population basis that the
trouble will arise. This is to be done by a Com-
mission, whose work must be approved of by the
Assembly. And the Assembly largely consists of
members whose political life depends upon not
approving of it.
* * *
The roads-and-bridges member is an abomina-
tion to the land—a public robber, an outrage on
Democracy. He buys support from His consti-
tuents with roads and bridges, and sells his own
support to Governments for the same. He. need
hardly have the ragged remnants of a conscience,
or the vague beginnings of a brain. He may be a
local nonentity, incapable of formulating the idea
of seeking shelter from the fury of the elements,
or a blatant fraud, loaded to the muzzle with
alliterative cant, but his seat is sure while
he can drive a hard bargain with the Govern-
ment of the time for his vote, and in
return secure an unjust local expenditure of
taxes in railways, courthouses, post-offices, gaols
and culverts. Also, he must lay everybody in his
electorate under obligation to him as far as pos-
sible, by personal attention to their grievances, or
aid to their designs upon the general taxpayers.
If he does all this the part he takes in general
lawmaking is a secondary consideration.
# * *
Will the roads-and-bridges member submit to a
subdivision of his electorate which cuts off half
those for whom he has blackmailed Governments
and exploited the public, and gives him in return
strangers who know him not? Will his brother-
member of the next electoratesubmit to an arrange-
ment equally unfavourable to himself? The aver-
age member of any standing has acquired a vested
interest in a certain set of voters, which the alter-
ation of political boundaries would render almost
valueless. Here and there it might happen that
a fertile patch of Orangemen would bo given to
an anti-Homo Rule member in exchange for hostile
Holy Roman voters. But if the Commission does
its work honestly, the reverse effect is just as
likely.to follow Its decision*. What must be par-
ticularly borne in mind is that probably nob
more than one out of ten of the members who
have established a lien on certain electorates
through Treasury-looting in its various forms, or
through any other of the devices of billet-holding,
will be satisfied with the alterations of boundaries
proposed. And what is more certain than that
they will heartily unite on broad, patriotic grounds
in rejecting such proposals, or any other proposal
likely to interfere with their chances of retaining
seats ?
9 * *
I have conversed with more than a dozen
M’s.P. every one of whom voted for “One-man-
one-vote ” and will resist any alteration of the
boundaries of his own stamping-ground. And
every one of these is conscious that to do
so effectively he will have to help others
similarly affected in their resistance. The
question of electoral boundaries is one that
will be log-rolled from the very start, and
probably tossed to and fro for years in the
Assembly. Some of those (I do not refer to new
members, as they have not yet acquired vested
interests in districts) who are loudest in their
anger at the Council’s opposition to the popular
will, are ready to oppose it much more effectually,
and with far less honesty. Because of them, even
though “ One-man-one-vote ” were crammed down
the throats of the grasping nominees to-morrow,
its application would be as far off as before. If
the Labour-party are “lions led by asses,” Demo-
crats who think all the old members were in
earnest when they voted for an equal public
franchise are asses led by Judases, —Yours, &0.,
NOT IN LT.
“Religion without authority is only philo’
sophy.”—Lacordaire. And they are always
trying to pet the authority.
Extract from an address presented by the
Napier (M.L.) Caledonian Society to Governor
Glasgow :
The society hopes that Maoriland will be one day
governed entirely by Scotsmen, and believes the colony
will then be placed on a footing of commercial pre-
eminence.
It will be a cold day for the man who tries to run
a comic paper, but the trade in religious books and
whisky will be pre-eminent enough.
Pitcairn Island is disappearing under
subterranean volcanic action. Scientists think it
will all have crumbled away in a century.
“The attitude of orthodoxy towards work-
ing-class misery is simply that the pigs be taught
to die without squealing,” said Carlyle. The
latest about Bishop Moorhouse is that he has been
asking the English pigs to die without squealing.
A Blue Mountains (JSLS.W.) man lately
found, among the leaves of a book that had be-
longed to his deceased mother, a .£5 note issued
by a long-defunct N.S.W. bank, the assets of
which were, years ago, purchased by one of the
“associated” banks. On legal advice, he pre-
sented the “fiver” over the counter of the live
bank. It was honoured. Rummaging through
the departed lady’s little library, he found £BO
more in similar notes which he also turned into
cash.
John M'Elhone, the man with the skull of
Julius Caesar, and the tongue of Bridget Moriarty,
has written to the Sydney press a blistering
thunderblast against the N.S.W. Civil Service. A
bit: —
Only a few days ago, as I was going down Pitt-street,
about a quarter to 3 p.m., I saw two under-secretaries and
a Minister near Tattersall’s Hotel, walking leisurely down
Pitt-street.
What John probably means is that he saw the
Minister and two highly-paid under-secretaries
employing part of their “office-hours” in having
drinks. It is evident that the scorpion-tongued
M‘Elhone has his eye on his old position of Par-
liamentary flagellator and hangman.
Asked by Sydney D.T. interviewer if he
thought “the best Labour representatives came to
that side by conviction against environment rather
than by actual training and experience,” Organiser
Schnadhorst said that “the best Labour repre-
sentative was the man who had actual experience
of the necessities and conditions of labour.” The
reply was as inexplicit as the question. It requires
training and experience to make a man a Demo-
crat “by conviction against environment,”
Poverty of condition is not, as Schnadhorst and
the interviewer seem to think, the school in which
a rock-founded belief in Democratic principles is
engendered. If a poor man be not a sincere
student of social conditions, he is apt to imagine,
on bettering his environment, that poverty is
always a personal fault, and that men should not
blame conditions but themselves. When a man of
this mould gets into Parliament he developes
“ big-head,” and throws Democracy to the winds.
Dear Bulletin, —The N.S.W. railways
are worth, I understand, in round numbers some-
thing over .£40,000,000 sterling, and are paying
good interest on that amount. As you pointed
out last week, they have at present only a fraction
of the traffic which time and settlement will
bring; even supposing that no more money be
expended upon extensions. In a few years’ time
they will be paying double or quadruple the
interest they now yield, and would sell for
000,000 to <£100,000,000. Now, with these
certain prospective gains before them, a syndicate
could afford to offer eighty members of the Legis-
lative Assembly (a substantial majority) a bonus
of <£10,000,000 among them, or £25,000 each,
for getting the little job through the political
machine. I believe there are poor men who have
nothing but their £3OO a year, minus retrench-
ment, who would from a spirit of probity and
patriotism refuse to save themselves from bank-
ruptcy by accepting such bribes. I also believe
there are others who would grab the cash. I am
afraid we shall lose our railways. “Are you in
favour of alienating the tramways or railways?”
should be the first question asked of candidates
at parliamentary elections in every Australasian
province. —W. H. M.


r ' /N/V/WV 'V'?
IOKIM.V .( UHTKII4BUK
STAMI’S.
100 different Foreign, 2 (1; 100 different
Australasian, 6/-; Stamp Alliums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, (1/10 nil post free,
price-list gratis. Cimi'd s'ninp»
accepted. Harestamp* ImiuUi.
VINDIN <sc CO,
The I'liiciiiH St a in// De/iot,
74 EU7.A 11ETII STREET, SYDNEY
A SURE MEDICAL BULWARK.
Wolfe’s Schnapps. It prevents the destruction
of nerve supply, resulting from late hours and
irregularity.
No Ribbon.
n.“ YOST” Typewrite!.
TAKES THE FIRST PLACE,
and because
IT HAS NO RIBBON,
and is every way the BUST, if. lias (in competition) been
KST THE COLD MEDAL IS*
at the Conoonrs National, Paris, 1892. Also, SPECIAL
FIRST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL, Tasmanian Exhibi-
tion, 1891-92.
Likewise the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for Typewriters
at Kimberley International Exhibition, 1892.
awarded
The YOST TYPEWRITER 00.,
126 Pitt-at., Sydney ; and 144 Eiuabeth-sl., Melbourne.
Perfect Alignment.
Personal Items.
Success in life —Jay Gould Failure—
the Messiah.
Spagnoletti : “Met G. W. Pusden in
Melbourne to-day. Much changed—looks like a
bishop.”
Paraguay Lane (a tebtb taller), in the pur-
suit of “dbpy,” spent one Christmas Eve in
Brisbane gaol on a charge bf drunkenness;
Cabled that Barclay Walker, English
brewer, head bf Peter Walker and Son, left a
fortune bf £3,000,000.
The books at Pentridge prisori, Melbourne,
are being kept by Taylor and Larkin. The autho-
rities are anxious to have an auditor next.
E. J. Bateman, late editor of the Ballarat
Courier, left £21,259, “ made out of journalism.”
A long Way but, no doubt;
Millionaire Tyson celebrates his 70th
birthday, April 11. His brother-goldbug, W. J.
Clarke, J.P., M.L.C., LL.D., was 62 last Sunday
week.
More ages:—George Beaver* the Mel-
bourne theatrical quid-nunc, 97 ; Sam Thompsoii,
the turnip tout of FlemingtOil, since it was at
Batman’s Hill, 101.
The Prince of Whiles’ daughters seem to be
fastening their affections on men of 40, or there-
abouts. Their mother married a young one, and
has warned the girls, no doubt.
Fish, M.P., of Dunedin (M.L.), complains
that cabmen - urged on, apparently, by his poli-
tical enemies—now try to run him down in the
streets and gallop over his mangled carcase.
Hamilton, M.L.A. (Q.), is disappointed at
his non-inclusion in the present MTlwraith
Ministry. His principal qualification was the
swimming of the Brisbane River in flood with a
cork jack6s
Gladstone, it is said, would like to appoint
another poet laureate, but can’t make up his mind
as to the man. He considers that Parkes would
be suitable in some respects—hair, for instance —
but not in others.
The Melbourne solicitor who is going to
England for a big fortune, recalls another, who
hurried joyfully to take up his Irish estates, but
got no rent, couldn’t sell, and had to come back to
work in Australia.
David Lindsay is about to start out on
an exploring expedition in the interests of a Mel-
bourne syndicate. He travels from Port Augusta
westward until past the West Australian border,
and then turns north through the Murchison
district. He will do a little bit of camel-dealing,
a good deal of prospecting for minerals, and some
land-selection. Elder has nothing to do with the
new scheme.
The publication of
Parkes’ “ Fifty Years ”
has forced ex-Chief Jus-
tice Alfred Stephen to
re-write about one-third
of the “Reminiscences”
he has in hand.
Baron Von Mueller,
who probably knows more
about Australian botany
than any other man
living, surprises informal
visitors to his house by
appearing before them
barefooted. He has a
notion that going bare-
footed lengthens life.
“ Mr. Robert Lucas
Tooth, late of Sydney,
has been accepted as the
Conservative candidate
for the Loughborough
Division at next election.”
The people of Lough-
borough must be easily
pleased. Perhaps the
wire-pullers think that as
Henniker Heaton is good
enough for Canterbury,
Mr. R. Lucas Tooth is
good enough for Lough-
borough. But Henniker
has a certain ability
which the other doesn’t
possess. Still, after all,
the gift most required is
abi ity to “ shell out,” but
even in this they may find
themselves mistaken, for
“ Mr. Robert Lucas
Tooth, late of Sydney,”
is about as close fisted as
they make’em, though he
might feel inclined to
bleed in this instance for
the sake of an introduc-
tion to “sassiety.” How
he will get on as a
speaker remains to be
seen. In Sydney he was
as complete an oratorical
failure as Doddle White,
and if they want to make
a “ spouter ” of him they
must do as an Irish
elector recommended,
“ Shplit his toong wid a
silver sixpence to make
him tahlk. ”
The estate of the deceased Tollemache, the
biggest absentee of Maoriland, lias paid £35,000
in legacy duty. Tollemache was a weakhy savage
who used to' wash his rags in a creek to save the
hire of a washerwoman.
What sort of reception will the Australian
“loyal” press give Christie Murray this trip?
His testimony re the importance and popularity
of The Bulletin is still gall and wormwood to
several fatted editor-proprietors.
Extract from Sydney Gazette, Saturday,
Ju’y 7, 1810:
Birth. Oil Tuesday morning lasi, between 12 and 1
o’clock, tlie-l idy of the Revd. Mr. Cowper of a son.
The present hale and hearty Dean Cowper is the
son above mentioned.
Henry E. Brougham, who lately died in
Melbourne, was the son of a well-known Aus-
tralian pioneer and a nephew of the celebrated
Lord Brougham. At one time he managed
Ticehurat station, Riverina (N.S.W.)* and was
afterwards a wool-scourer at Wagga.
One of Melbourne’s representative gone-
btmgs has been grossly insulted by an anonymous
letter. That is to say, it wasn’t a letter exactly,
but an envelope containing a paragraph cut from
a London paper concerning the suicide of Mr.
Barker, accused of fraudulent banking business.
Some years ago fScherk was addressing
the Gumeracha (S.A.) electors when he was asked
his opinion of the social evil. A commercial
traveller, who was on the platform, nudged his
elbow and whispered : “Free selection and
deferred payments;” And that was the answer
Scherk gave to the question.
Lord Carington declares that he occupies
the position of a distressed landlord, as the 22,000
acres which lie inherited now yield him a spending
income of exactly half what it did a quarter
Of a century ago; It sometimes takes a good
While to get exact particulars of why lords sen-
tence themselves to penal servitude in Australia;
Henniker Heaton perhaps, after all, will
not lose milch by the postponement of his dream
bf greathess. Were penny ocean postage to be
initiated to-morrow, if he got any reward at all it
would probably be a simple knighthood, and he
would at once subside into his original insigni-
ficance, failing any new popular cry to keep him
en tvideilc'e.
John Pettie* R;A;* has gone Where the
good painters go; His first famous picture, “An
Arrest for Witchcraft,” hangs in Melbourne
National Gallery, and makes a good contrast to
his “Challenged” of the same collection. Another
notable Pettie* called “The Clash of Steel,” is
No. 1 in the catalogue of the temporary British
Gallery, just round the corner.
The late Duke of Marlborouglx was a some-
what intellectual rascal, and in his will he had a
parting slap at his noble order. Thus :“ I dislike
particularly the exclusiveness of family pride, and
I wish not to be buried in the family vault in
Blenheim chapel, but in any suitable place that
may be convenient.” This indifference to the
dust of his ancestors was the most respectable
trait in the wife-kicker’s character.
In O’Shanassy’s day of power in Victoria,
that big man used to be the victim of shoals of
letters of introduction upon the arrival of every
immigrant ship from “th’ ould counthry.” One of
O’Shanassy’s official proteges once got leave to
go down to Sandridge and welcome his immigrant
cousin, of whom, when they met, he presently
enquired—“An’ who gev yeh the letther?”
“ What letther? ” “Why, the letther of recom-
mindash’n to O’Shanassy.” “Shure, Oi have
nayry a letther to him or any wan.” “What !
Yeh’ve no letther ! Thin, what’s the use o’yeh
cornin’ to Osthreelia ? Go back at wanst an’ get a
letther, an’ doan’t attimpt to come here agin
’idout it! ”
THE AMATEUR WALEESMO.
GOLD-LACED VOLUNTEER FIELD-MARSHAL (to common but medalled
private): “lam—haw—pleased to find—aw—old soldiers
in the ranks of the volunteers.”
COMMON PRIVATE: “Yes, sir, I belong to the volunteers now—and
I don’t think much of them.”
“ Bak Blox,” in Central Australian
(Bourke, N.S.W.), says, of one of The Bulletin-
identified Eliises, once of the Barcoo (Q.): —
“ When young Howard de Walden went from his
Barcoo residence to the nearest post-town he
always sent the local bellman around to announce:
‘ Roll up! roll up ! the Honourable Mr. Ellis is
agoin’ to shout for all hands at the Royal Hotel!
Roll up ! roll up ! God Save the Queen !”
Were an income-tax levied in N.S.W., it
would, in the first place, perhaps, chiefly affect a
comparatively unknown lady, Miss Walker, of
Concord (heiress of the late Thomas Walker),
whose income is stated, and no doubt truly, at
about £60,000 a year. Mr. Hay, who lately suc-
ceeded to the magnificent Berry (South Coast)
estates, has an income based upon a solid and
unmistakeable capital of between one and two
millions.
Pali Mall Gazette puts the gilded roof
on Kintore’s transcontinental exploit. “Thecourage
he showed in undertaking the 2000 mile overland
journey, from Adelaide to Port Darwin, not only
won the hearts of his ‘subjects’ but gave an im
petns to exploration, and led to the opening.
up of much new country.” And yet Kin-
tore might just as well haVo done 2000 miles
up and down King William-street on a bicycle for
all the good he did.
It turns out that Attorney-General Byrnes’
greasy beslobberment of Chief Justice Griffith
had been committed to memory. Byrnes’ oratory
is of the sing-song black-gin crooning order, en-
hanced by an idiotic swaying of the body.
They say that the loves of the Duke of
York and his comely cousin will not be royally
announced until the late Clarence has been
definitely fixed in his sarcophagus at the Albert
Memorial Chapel. At present the departed
prince is but “temporarily interred,” and the
official re-engagement of his sweetheart would not
be quite proper under the circumstances. The
Tecks, pere et mere, are reported to sing “ Hurry
up with the Sarcoph.!”
When the late Abington Baird was leaving
England on his fatal expedition to Yankeeland,
“Pony ” Moore, pugilist Mitchell’s father-in-law,
we read, “ threw his arms around the neck of the
Squire and kissed him with a loud, resounding
smack.” England evidently holds some queer
people just now. It is not yet officially known
what becomes of Baird’s big fortune. One cabled
account says it goes to his mother ; another, that
his dear friend, Mrs. Langtry* has been left
£50,000 a year.
As instancing the
emoluments of Austra-
lian authorship, a Syd-
ney publisher observe-. I
lately : “ Now, there’s
Kenneth Mackay ; I in-
vited him in, the other
day, and gave him a
cheque for £25. His
book went splendidly.”
That was in allusion to a
little sixpenny set of
jingles.
Justice Williams, of
Maoriland, generally
omits the steno yped
“May God have mercy
upon your soul ! ” when
passing the death-sen-
tence, which he Goes in
very terse fashion. Mr.
Justice Ward, on the
other hand, when tempor-
arily occupying a seat on
the M.L. Supreme Court
bench, used to go in
for style and Scripture.
When sentencing the
Great Barrier murderers,
some years back, he de-
livered a long oration
interspersed with such
Mosaic work as this :
“You thought yourselvi s
safe, because the keel t f
your boat left no track
upon the waters ; but you
forgot that God rides
upon the storm, and that
His footsteps are oh the
deep,” Thus does the
Bench tickle the ears of
the groundlings.
When a certain N.S.
Wales politician returned
to N.S.W., after his trip
to England, an old friend,
meeting him in the street,
hailed him ebummily
with, “ Hulloa, ;
how are you?” The great
man drew himself up
with, “ Mister , if
you please ! ” and walked
on. He answers to a num-
ber now.
The Hebrew is climbing on to the throne.
Ferdinand of Bulgaria, is about to be married to
the gilded daughter of a Jew-banker named
Bleichroder, and as the lady refuses to change
her creed she will be the first royal Jewess in
Europe. The rest is only a matter of time. Out
of this marriage will arise some future King
Moses of Bulgaria, and he will gradually get a
mortgage on the surrounding States and take them
in, till his not very remote descendant Samuel is
one of the Great Powers of Europe.
Why doesn’t Queen Victoria’phonograph a
gracious message to her Australian subjects ? The
Bulletin gives away this splendid suggestion for
strengthening the Constitution, and affording “one
more proof of the interest which Her Majesty, <fec.,
&c.” The gracious message might be ground
forth at a shilling a head, under Government con-
trol, in each of the capital cities, and such knights
as are still affluent could treat large parties of
State-schoolchildren to the sound of their monarch
by special contract. A few words from V.R.,
hot off the cinder, and followed by the National
Anthem—the idea fascinates us! R. S. Smythe
is now in England. Verb. sap.
Some 20 years ago, a man who is now a
Victorian M.P., was local-preaching in an up-
country town where Methodism was epidemic.
Starting from the text —“ Lay ye not up for your-
selves treasures on earth,’’ &c., he used the fact
that bushranger Power was in the neighbourhood
as an illustration of the chances of being robbed,
and ended, by way of contrast: “ But there won’t
be no thievin’ in ’eaven, where the streets are
made of jasper, an’ the mansions are built of gold!
Why, if thieves was allowed hin, they’d be a
pickin’ the streets oop an’ shoovelling away the
treasure!'’ The congregation guffawed irreve-
rently. The preacher, nothing disconcerted,
roared sternly ; “An’ the larfin’shall be turned
to groanin’, an’ there shall be weepin’ an’ gnashin’
o’ teeth!” Which just broke up everything
“right there.”
“Archie” Hall, one of Cobb and Co.’s
coach-drivers of the gold-digging and bushranging
era, is now manager of Wellington (M.L.) tram-
ways. It was he who, in the early days, could
alone get the N.S.W. and Victorian mails through
without accident. When the ’rangers would bail
him up, he always answered their questions truth-
fully—such as when and where he had passed the
gold escort. He never informed on them at head-
quarters, and for this he was once arrested by the
Victorian Government, but on explaining that if
he hesitated about giving the required information,
or reported what gang it was that asked for it, he
never would be able to get the mails delivered,
they let him off. He is an old man now, but
if pushed in the holiday times, or when short-
handed, he will take a tram out himself.
In one thing both Stead and his Australian
editor, Fitchett, fail utterly. Neither has the
faintest glimmering of the poetic sense. Both
have evidently been metrically nurtured on grocer-
written hymns, and Fitchett’s poetic education
has apparently been topped off by a reverential
study of Age obituary gems. The hideous com-
monplaces admiringly quoted on page Cl ( ,f
March number would not find room in the dullest
country paper. The Review reprints from Syd-
ney Mail, as part of its Australian “Poetry of
the Month,” “some verses of musical melancholy
with a Swinburnian lilt, by Ella Wheeler Wilcox
entitled ‘The Lady of Tears.’ ” The editor who
thinks that the American Ella Wheeler Wilcox is
part of Australia’s belongings and that she con
tributes to Sydney Mail is past praying for. ThS
Bulletin presumes that the Mail ed- tor has been
writing poetry again with his eloquent scissor-
The Echo and Mail always do sparkle brilliantly
on the arrival of the Yankee mail. At least, they
would sparkle, if their staff had wits enough to
steal the right things.
Forty-one years ago four penniless pro-
spectors, Clarkson, Hunt, Cobley and White
found the first gold on the Thames (Maoriland)’
It was a great and wonderful find. The Caledonia
mine alone, on that magnificent field, yielded
about three and a-half millions in gold* and it was
only one—though the richest—among a number of
discoveries. The four prospectors, in a few
months after their strike, were worth £40,000 a
man, and Clarkson’s pickaxe and shovel, which
had turned up the first deposit, were reverently de-
posited in Auckland Museum, where they attracted
attention for many years as the beginning of the
province’s greatness. But a year or two ago an old*
feeble,, discouraged looking man appeared at the'
THE LAND OF THIRST.
NEWLY-MADE QUEENSLAND BRIDEGROOM (to the Parson): “What’s
the damage?”
THE REV. GEMTLEMAN: “Oh, that depends upon the option and
circumstances of the happy man."
BRIDEGROMM: “Oh, is that so! Well, then, come over to old Hard-
stuff’s and we’ll have a long shandy.”
Museum and asked that the said pick and shove
should be returned to him, as he wanted to go and
potter over the exhausted goldfield for a living,
and was too poor to buy a new set of tools. The
old man was Clarkson. Whether he got his pick
and shovel back isn’t 'recorded. Of his three
mates, White had died mad, Hunt was making a
precarious livelihood prospecting in Australia,
and Cobley was unaccounted for. This sort of
thing is the saddest part of the gold industry.
Victor Daley is on the sick list in Mel-
bourne, and the doctors treat him with more
respect than he would wish for. A poet, not being
a squatter or an opulent stockbroker, regards
medical attention with a suspicious eye.
A lady correspondent of S.M. Herald
points out that 165,138,000 acres of land,
devoted to sheep in N.S.W., worked with a
capital of about =£100,000,000, returned last year
only <£11,036,018, or an average of about Is. 9d.
per acre, whereas all the land under mulberry in
Europe returns an annual average of .£24 per acre.
Further, the annual value of cocoons from the
land under mulberry in Italy alone (an area that
would go into one of the N.S.W. electorates) is
£6,000,000.
IF YOU ARE FOND OF A
Pleasant beverage, Wolfe’s Schnapps will afford
you that gratification, and at the same time in-
vigorate your system and cheer your mind.
“ lb is worth its weight in gold,” is a common
expression. But while the value of gold is easily
affected, the worth of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as a
blood-purifier, never depreciates. It eradicates
scrofula from the system.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
' (Portrait Photographers)
A.rcadLe, Sydney.
Messrs. Charlemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
•gains rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
Will without doubt establish itself very soon as
one of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad. t p. 1.
FIiEMIH G’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &o.
*I, . ■ '
23 A 24 Ciarcncostrcot,
SYDNEY.
d
fs
ARTESIAN
Welts drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-,
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
df
POLITICAL
POINTS
Gladstone’s death would pass Home Rule.
The Tories will pass Home Rule, if the
Liberals fail.
A sou of the late Joshua Peter Bell (Q.) is
to pose as Labour candidate for Dalby !
You can generally estimate the voting
power of a man by the size of his corporation.
“ What news on the Rialto 1 ?” M‘Oaughaii,
the proprietor, has the Victorian railways for sale.
The Queensland electoral-roll contains,
this year 15,000 names less than that of last year.
Total, now, 107,000.
Jacobs, Joseph, Moses, Hyam and Salo-
mons (ML.C.’s, of N.S.W.) all favour the extra
vote for “ thrift.
The “independent ” Labour candidate is
the latest Queensland political freak. Down with
“ free ” labour in polities !
Let Australia take a lesson in modesty
from the gentle Hawaiian—in whose Parliament
Ministers don’t vote on no-confidence motions.
Jawbone Neild ambitions the N.S.W.
Chairmanship of Committees. Whatever in-
fluence Parkes, senior, hai will be exerted to keep
him out of a Ereetrade Ministry.
Horace Tozer, the legal bully of the
MTlwraith gang, springs from the Government-
founded Port Macquarie, and acquired his vitu-
perative education in Sydney.
G. B. Simpson, Q.C., nominee M.L.0.?
says he will try and force the Dibbs Government
to the country. Simpson never went to the country
himself, and could not get a seat if he did.
The Age wouldn’t believe in Money
Miller, when The turned to Loyal Liberalism.
Fellows tjipn said that Miller’s counting-house
was his church, his ledger his Bible, and his money
Us god. '
There is, not one Single-taxer before the
S.A. electors as such. They very wisely com-
bined their forces with the Labour-party, an agree-
ment which has been of the greatest advantage in
every way.
Significant that at S.A. elections nearly
every candidate was careful to say that he was
not connected with the bogus-National Ass. Not
one candidate is being openly run by that semi-
seoret society.
Neither Hodgkinson, Unmack, nor Cowley
is included in the new Queensland Ministry ;
Hodge for his utter unreliableness, Unrnack for
his pettifogging shopkeepidity, and Cowley for
his miserable insignificance.
What Queensland wants is a compact?
guerilla Labour-party, with a head that un-
derstands its mission and the shortest road
thereto, that will propagandize in recess and fight
in session—and fight—and fight.
The “retrenchment” agitation must be
closely watched. Already the shattering of the
Victorian State school system, abolition of pay-
ment of members, apd the sale of the State rail-
ways have been proposed in its name.
A gigantic unemployed trouble looms in
Victoria to keep Premier Patterson warm through
the winter. An unsympathetic Government may
presently be forced to do at least as much for its
unemployed as it does for its criminals.
Even Conservative farmers in S.A.
country districts begin to ask : What is the use of
a Governor? “ Get a rubber-stamp official signa-
ture instead,” is the latest suggestion. Disgusting
<news this, for British Government parasites.
MTlwraith’s latest move is the jumping of
the Q. Ministership for Railways. If the con-
stituencies return him as such, according to the
Act, the uncontrolled determination of what lands
the syndicates shall have will rest with him.
Sir Andrew'Clarke, Aeting-Agent-General
•for Victoria, has been requested by the Govern-
ment to ascertain how Victorian dressed poultry
would sell in London. The Victorian “Ambas-
sadorship ’’ is gradually working into importance.
>i, U le approaching Queensland elections
Mar on ? Question for decision is whether
■M Ilwraith is to be or not to be. Once before
that province repudiated his land-grant and black-
tabqur jobs. This time the decision must be
final.
■They are agitating at last for a single
came to take the place of “the United King-
mom of Great Britain and Ireland.” Engscotire-
|land, or Oalbriterinia are comprehensive names,
out chimsy. The Bulletin would vote for
■McEngireland.
Yorke’s Peninsula is the only S.A. con-
stituency which has never had either a Minister
cr an ex-Minister to represent it. Treasurer
‘wonnsevell, driven from his old district of Port
Adelaide by the labour-vote, is now striving to
creak this record.
, as has happened, Gladstone can get in
ho Commons, on a straight vote, a majority of 47
av °uring;the release of the Irish dynamiters, he
'can easily win on any phase of the Irish
question. No better test, from a Tory standpoint,
'could be invented.
M ‘ll wraith stakes every tiling on the next
throw of the political dice. With the appoint-
ment of Forrest as Agent-General, his own
appoi tment as Minister tor R lilways, and Liss-
ner’s as Minister for Mines, tne land-grant dice
are beautifully loaded.
In the N.S.W. Parliamentary lobbies it is
said that A. H. Jacob has never forgiven, and
never will forgive, the present Government for
appointing John Lackey President of the Legisla-
tive Council Jacob has always regarded him-elf
as the natural successor to John Hay.
Sydney Evening News emphatically
declares against payment of members. The date
of the leader is 27th March, 1893. When 'tTie
feebly-wriggling News at last gets proper qpposi-;
tion, it will squirm vigorously and protest’that it
has never turned its back on the democratic cause,-'.
John Davies, M.L.C. (N. S. W.) : “ I
believe <£200,000 could be cut off the education
vote. . . . The youth of the country, are
being over-educated.” This is the John Davies
who, on a memorable occasion in the witness-box
of N. S. W. Supreme Court, xmbiicly spelt January—
“ J-a-n-n-e-r-y.” , • L
Wrote the late J. M. Macrossan, ten yeays
ago;—“Griffith may climb into power on the
shoulders of the working-men, butjf be does, it
will be to the great disappointment of men like
yourself, men who do not believe in him, but will
vote for him, to keep Coolies out of the country.
Griffith is a narrow-minded bigot, without one
particle of political honesty or principle.”
Now that Victoria is retrenching violently
the demand that someone should kill Andrew
Clarke and H. C. E. Childers is growing urgent.
Oku ke served the suffering province for four
years and Childers for six years away back-in the
fifties, and between them they have drawn. £1660
a year pension ever since, or a total qf over
<£50,010. The position of the province is much
the same as that of the insurance company in
which the Wandering Jew has bought an
annuity.
Speaker Coles
(S.A.), who once
coqueted with
the Single-tax,
now runs his elec-
tion in violent
opposition to
Henry George.
There are but
two medical men
in N.S.W. Legis-
lative Assembly—
Ross and Hollis—
and each thinks
the other’s opinion
unworthy of
notice.
An instructive
commentary on
the alleged advan-
tages, in the way
of cheap fares and
freights, to be
gained by selling
the Australian
railways to pri-
vate speculators.
In England, last
year, it was found
necessary to pass
an Act compu'so-
rily reducing the
exorbi tan tc 1 1 arges
for certain classes
of freight on the
railways. The
various compa-
nies, whose com-
petition is sup-
posed to keep rates
down to the lowest
payable level,
some time ago
formed an associa-
tion and became
practically one
happy monopoly,;
hence the trouble.
When the Act
came into force,
the association
promptly raised its
charges about .75
per cent, on agri-
cultural produce
to get level, and
now more com-
pulsory legislation
is threatened.
Playford, of S.A., has at last decided that
Governinent by Contradiction is a failure, and
holds that M'm sters should be elected by the
Legislature for a fixed terrn. In South Australia,
for many years, there has been no time fpr any-
thing except knocking out one Government, and
forming another.
‘ Thrift,” if universally adopted, means
national suicide, ignorance, mass degrada-
tion, and the creation of a race of slaves and
beggars. Witness the Hindoos, the most thrifty
and abstemious people on the face of the earth,
and also the most obsequious and poorly remuner-
ated for their toil.
Between Hergott and Faring railway
stations (S. A.) and the Queensland border,
there are 1000 camels employed, and all are
owned and worked by Afghans, of whom 300 are
camped on the Hergott park lands. They pay no
rates, taxes, or rent, and they are driving the
white teamsters right out of the district.
The S.M. Herald is grieved to hear the
death-rattle in the throat of Australian Party-
Government. It mourns the depravity of the
Ministry that can submit night after night to have
its Bills amended in Committee, and that will not
retire whenever a snap majority succeeds in alter-
ing “ doodleumbuck ” to “ doodlenmbang.”
The recently-delivered phillippic of Rev.
W. Scott, Congregational pastor of Pitt-street,
Sydney, against the proposed Income Tax, is
identical in argument, and in many parts in words,
with the speech delivered by Parkes against
Custom House taxation when the Jennings-Dibbs
party introduced their ad-valorem policy.
Extract from biographical notes of Colonial
Secretary Horace Tozer (Q. ), in Brisbane Courier :
—“ln 1860, he was articled to the legal profession
in Brisbane, and from 18G8 practised his profes-
sion at Cympie.” A bald reference to an interest-
ing period of the then young Toner’s life. Mal-
bon Thompson, by the way, is still in the flesh.
UNEASY SLEEP,
Restlessness at night, are troubles arising from
mental agitation. Wolfe’s Schnapps is an
admirable nerve-replenisher.
N.S. VV. ex-Treasurer M’Millan, a Lon-
donderry man and* of a strongly Ulster Orange
stock, is among the warmest advocates of Irish
Home Rule and scouts the fear that Home Rule
will mean Rome Rule. It is the Davieses, the
Abigails and the Neilds, who have only heard of
Derry Walls, who become the Australian geysers
of old-world bigotry.
MTlwraith is a director of the Queensland
Meat Export Co. As Colonial Treasurer lie lent
that concern =£12,000 of public funds, and de-
spatched Hume l lack' to Europe ,£2OOO per
annum and expenses, “ to open up markets tor
frozen meat.” And as Premier, he has
pointed tltirchaicman of the same concern to the
Q,i rttns l and-, A gen f'-Geqeral sh i p.
” lip So.ytjh Australia tlieQnouths of Parlia-
mentary eandid-at.es are' forcibly.shut between the
day of, no.minatidri kpd the .day of electiqtr, . In
the Northern Territory ;■ the nominations arte to be
in by Saturday, April 8, while the election is riot;,
till Sa.tiu - day, j'M;iy ifi,' and ytt if' any candidate
mean while -addresses a public gathering of voters,
ho will render his return null and void.
Of the new Queensland Ministry,, Attprricy-
■Gerieral Byrne? iVa politically colourless time-ser-
ver jP.M.'G. Wilson should be labelled “perfectly
harmlessCo], Sec. Tozer is an egotist lost in-
the contemplation of his own grandeur ; aqd
Miries-Ministui Barlow, a respectable nincompoop.
'•l‘llwraij.li is,the “one nian,” and the land-grant
job (he one goal.
The National Ass would like to .give a man
one vole for each golden sovereign ho possesses,
but failing this i t Seeks .other',methods of iwinjiing
its way. In. S. A., .during tire present elections,
tho : dailies decline to report any candidate who
refuses to pay ,£4 4s. a column for the insertion of
his',speech,,.and- so it happens that the man with
the, deepest purse get? the largest space. y .
SkA. Assembly'elections take plgce Satur-
day 15tli. A pill? The Labour-pai;ty'"expect that
tljey wjll elect Bachelor.(W. Ad.), Price (Sturt),
.GonybUCf (W. Torrens),7 Hourigan (E. Torrens),
RELIGION AND COMMERCE.
IRISH PRIEST (new to the district, interviewing Squatter) : “Av coorse you
attind to yer duties regularly.”
SQUATTER : “God bless me, yes!”
PRIEST : “Monthly, av coorse—”
SQUATTER : “Oh, hang it now! Quarterly settlements in Monaro, you know.”
Wood (N. Ad.), M'Pherson (E. Ad-), M'Gillivray
and Archibald (Port Ad.). The Labour vote will
also be cast for Kingston, Scherk, Cohen, Brooker,
<vll tri ef i.Democrats. In several country constitu- \
encies direct Labour candidates are running with
really good prospects.
The unconscious growth of Socialistic .ideas
is once more made evident by an article in the
February number of the Nineteenth Century,
entitled “The Doom of tjie domestic Cook,”
wherein C.' S. Layard recommends the erection
of central kitchens to supply food at cost to every
shareholding householder inside their radius,
writer is not apparently a Socialist —he simply sees
the saving of money, time, fuel, service and'food,
the increase of internal and serial'cleanliness that
would result from such a commercial undertaking,
if properly carried on. Half the antagonism to
Socialism is the result of ignorance. .
One of the conspicuous evils of .private
railway ownership is that the railway company
gives large concessions in freight to itt big cus-
tomers, and makes up the loss by charging exor-
bitant rates to the small ones. For instance, in
England, the big grain-importers, who segd mariy
thousands of tons annually over the rails, have
their goods conveyed at about half the rates
charged to the local farmer, which practically
means that Britain subsidises the foreign producer
to help him to wipe out the native agriculturist.
British railways exist almost entirely for the
benefit of the importer, nowadays.
Mr. J. G. Griffin, the new Parliamentary
candidate for Canterbury, N.S.W., once over-
whelmed Parkes with the magnificence of his
apparel. He was electioneering then, too, but as
the prospective constituents were mostly Free-
traders he called at Parkes’s private house for a
letter of introduction to the chief magnates of the
far-off bush electorate. Parkes complied, but
declares that he spoke only a few words to the
canninatp, being spellbound at the gorgeousness
ot the spectacle. Later, Parkes was sorry that
he gave the letter, as the political Beau Brummel,
on rejection in the country, abjured Freetrade
and assaulted St. Leonards as a thorough-going
Protectionist. " *
Some Australian constituencies are said to
believe that they would have a better grip on their
representatives if the constituency paid them and
not the State. That’s true, but it wouldn’t work.
In the first place, the wealthy man would always
be able to bribe the meaner and more ignorant
souls by offering his services gratis; secondly,
their representative would find some difficulty
after a time in living on voluntary contributions
which no one had time to collect and few would
pay.
A certain N.S.W. politician, within .the
last three years, narrowly escaped becoming a
.'Minister', thereby discrediting the
circumstances—-for life. A Protectionist, he
actually wfe'nt to the arch-Freetra'd’er with a
ticked list showing him how to get a majority if he
would- propose certain resolutions its amended by
him-Vthe Protectionist politician. His heart
failed him.at the last moment ;he spake not to
, give reasons for' his sudden somersault and voted
in the usual vvay. But the arch-Freetrader has the
listvand the MS. of the Ain ended resolutions in his
possession, and wh&mphe right time comes, the
handwriting of that Prof&cTtionist will arise against
him. !■ , ,
“ Wingen ” Abbott, asks our self-styled
Democrats, .who denounce all capitalists, to say
whether\\th&y the working-man who
spends hiacsurplus in gambling or drink, superior
to the man who puts ; "his in' n! joint-stock company
and thus becomes a capitalist.' No true Democrat
believes in wasteful expenditure, nor-does any
Democrat object to the workers bettering their
condition. The I 'trouble is, under present con-
ditions, that no one-can rise (become a capitalist)
except at the expense of others. But it is pre-
posterous now to -expect workmen to have enough
after paying for necessaries, to invest in joint-stock
companies. , .
| A few of the convictions.” of P. D.
Phillips, attorney, a candidate for the elective
Vic. Legislative Council•
He had been asked whether he was k Conservative or a
, Liberal,, and had replied that he would prfefer not to have
any political name. . . He believed! in good sourd
Liberalism as much as-he did in good sound Conserva-
_tism. . . If elected to the Council he would hC glad to
assist in.securing the modification of the constitution so
Las to enable the- Upper House to make suggestions to
alter, but not actually to'alter, money bills. That would
give the Assembly an opportunity to reconsider a matter
in a courteous way.
A suggestive lesson here, for those who would
thoughtlessly, by the vitalising breath of election,
endow, with life those tubs of fast-deooipposing
political tripe, the Australian nominee Councils.
A Bi-Metaljic League has been formed in
Victoria .out of sundry relies of the National Ass
and' spefcimem galoots from the Young Victorians’
Patriotic League. At the recent meeting one of
the latter fearlessly.asserted bis determination to
advocate, os. an ounce as a standing price for
silver. Under these conditions, the young man
ingenuously pointed out, “ shareholders of the
Broken Hill mines would divide <£2,250,000 a
year more in dividends.” And nobody thought
of mentioning that, if this statesmanlike principle
were applied to bricks, the' clay-thumpers o.f
Brunswick would become globular millionaires in a
few weeks, and. that it is only necessary to raise
the price of coal to half-a-crown an ounce to make
every scrip'-holdfer-in Newcastle a .Jay Could. In
fact, on the same principle, the whole nation may
become inatari tly.atfd .fabulously wealthy any day
by legislating its soil up to =Bl per square inch.
Evea*the most purblind Tories (writes
The Bulletin's London correspondent) now begi'p
to realise the significance* of the great Labour
movement in England, and to' admit that a new
power has been created which will be tremendously
felt at next general election. It has-been practi-
cally decided by the Labour leaders that" wherever
there is a,vacancy, either- municipal or parliamen-
,there must be a contest. Recently at Halifax,
,where a Liberal, a Tory, and a Labour candidate
contested the election, the latter, .although bit-
terly'opposed by the Liberals,’ came .within a
thousand votes or so'of the Tbr.y. Tils Liberal
ppposition bas given much dissatisfaction to the
“ horny-hahded,” 'who is determined to show tha,t
he will no longer submit to be the mere cat’s-paw
,of‘his quasi friends, who simply make use of him
when his vote'is wanted, and kick him off when
.lisas no longer of service. If, in future, the Liberals
want Labour .co-operation, it must be upon some-
thing like equal terms,, and wherever the Labopr
vote is' the stronger, there it must have direct
representation. Failing this, the Liberal. party
will be effaced. Out of the tactics taught by Par-
nell will come the British revolution.
-Constipation, or costiveness, is qpe of the
most frequent results of liver complaint, and re-
quires prompt and careful Attention, for if the
fecal matter becomes impacted in the bowels
dangerous effects are to be apprehended. The
justly’celebrated Dr. Abernethy said that inatten-
tion to the action of the stomach and’ bowels was
the cause of ninety per cent, of our physical ail-
ments; and modern science has proved this asser-
tion correct. Care, however, requires to be
(observed in the choice of remedies, for (here
‘are numerous drastic and violent cathartics sold
under various fancy names, but Dr. Fletcher’s
Pills are used with the best advantage in such
cases. These pills are from the prescription of
Dr. Bell Fletcher, of Birmingham, England, arid
were used by him in his private and General
Hospital practice there for many years with the
greatest success. This, as a matter of course,
proves.their reliability, and Mr. A. M. Beau-
eharrjp, Rata, Rangitikei,: N.Z., says:—“ I wish
to inform you of the good Fletcher’s Pills are
doing here. Everybody! uses them, arid speaks
well of them ; and so do I, for they are the best I
ever used in my life. ’, They can be obtained
from all medicine vendors, or direct from F. M.
Clements, Newtown, Sydney, for thirteen penny
stamps. •- „


R
I
Lj<L 1
yy t c** „ ,
.J'Ap
iU^yU:&*?'
\yy^;p^
,yy
y
* /"S>
I MR. DAVID CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Loni>ox, Tuesday, 1 p.m.—Mr. David
Christie Murray, the novelist, intends to
shortly pay another visit to the Australian
colonies.
#, ydfe
' disl°y a
Mu 5A dl'Z't *
Aft Murray zrfo/e aSoud /j fare Jfe?
,/ b'uTr
%
f
!q h
'l '^OhH-
K/
s W I
fhf !; t
t'-; v 4 K
SO
(gSSjf i
KV^
I
I Ay.%jjrfty.
tjf/etfisitfd lijt.
Sjor
hiU ijf« h
p*fsf
. * . O V\ W'
*>s*•*
v
~lii Central Africa, at the Grand Palavers,
they have a simple system of? lime-closure. A
I member is allowed to speak only as lonp as he
pair stand on one
ftiin.oihe j-of
Wuu)b O'lzltiilfs JoJc(
sU>z(( OjPkl- a C
0 '
V
HE oj- /IIIJTOIWWWj
{fa/e caiyedlifc Tariff-
Vote. We buried bafcirj
tfjpyWaUonW ftp
(wfl (h 2>«j fad'.j f*"-
'* CxcJ*«?ac ijl-(tfe for SonjcltfmcL h/,l£ih mu tye<up *
A ioy 'Uz-rttr I frf h/’ou.lc( fittyy f»tesept~ Salary '
London, »Monday. 1.20 p.m.—A sensa-
tional statement is made by the New
York Morning Journal to-day. It is to
the effect that the anarchists are plotting
to murder the Prince of Wales during his
expected visit to (ho World’s Fair at
Chicago
/4'5 I# be fassoz c( jVs'f; stabbed
°M/(Ta bov>]r fy*f e , ai)c/ aft?rdahis boiled a»?c(
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


n
Y
1 Du.cluf
-iKcvf iVi* _
3 roc»-s r.
sd
LV-si/tNT- '*
sa<tl H ftn />
tyUivtokTH'J.ift,
ojp Sicker,
,
£
o.
x
%
V).
%
111 liilerf« Kill I
MUM mKßmetyi. HhK sUpil I
ill m ]
ililili 111 I iiillii II I 111 I I
MfIUNTE BANKS
I Co s p ESft
■ i v
C Kcvvt WvfttVx. wfl\i <xrrvSorv _ Hftv«~Hv€. CoVfe vnxvrvevOr . ||
ft t or d. e.d c ordLuvl CQ-Ober **iow- To-Uye. Tn o ft.nH-W\At|
CtvsK'vtVi-'Well^
One o|-
Ur «. '.-Cl S a ■>'
Order /
ttr
11 11
Vo o’' 0 ’'
>nfcNo£o
• CRtMF-S
k ACT
e ac..H
"5;
'V,
// //V (j
f~r o uy~
THE REDUCTION IN THE PRICE
i OF “THE ARGUS.”
MORE CONGRATULATORY
LETTERS.
5 CWVv Xjo o£ft.o( titt GaxjwvO W.
<* ( 5 oi-ait/u**. 6 Ifc
0 ]^ZffViv wvV^.*
t/
(fp- '•*
Mm vS >
iii-,' V /■ Uvv/ eY
r r^,
CHIEFLY IN MELBOURNE,


O 0 D SPEC.
SAFE. PROFITABLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops, dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (PROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from £IQ
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title,
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1885), .tOO IMII-hI , Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS. Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
IF SLEEP IS UNRESTFUL
It is advisable to regulate the time for seeking
repose, to avoid heavy meals eaten late, and to
drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
A alight cold often proves the forerunner of
a complaint which may be fatal. Avoid this
result by taking Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the best
remedy for colds, coughs, and all throat and lung
diseases.
PAUSODONOPTIC SPECTACLES
A.nd Elyeglasses.
rpHESE are the most comfortable and most soothing
L glasses made, and the best preservatives for the sight.-
Send for our Treatise; “Spectacles, their use, when'
required, and how to purchase.” SENT FREE.
Frost & Shipham,
THE SPECTACLE MAKERS,
463, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY".
Society
First there came the announcement, per
cablegram, that Queen Victoria, or somebody, was
anxious for certain Australian horse-marines to
form part of the Royal escort at the opening of
the Imperial Institute. Then the Victorian
War Minister telegraphed an earnest appeal that
the said warriors might be allowed to chip in.
Finally came the glad tidings that the “ Imperial
authorities,” had sanctioned an Australian addi-
tion to the show “ in compliance with the sugges-
tion made by the Vic. Defence Department.”
The weaving of each silken bond is an interesting
study.
• • •
Queen Victoria’s “drawings from nature,”
exhibited in Melbourne, are not quite as weak as
could be, but they are rather ghastly things to
inflict upon her distant possessions. The most
shocking of them is a sketch of Prince Arthur,
perpetrated 40 years ago. Some sketches of
female grandchildren, dated 1875, bear a general
resemblance to the Royal Family, and suggest
that the august artist improved as she grew older.
The Queen’s colouring is primitive. A splodge of
red does duty for a maiden’s blush, and a brushful
of morning chocolate expresses a head of hair.
Several royal etchings had not been hung at time
of writing, possibly because Josh. Lake dreads
the consequences. Already the aforesaid portrait
of little Arthur begins to excite ridicule, and
doubts concerning the wisdom of a ruler who
could exhibit such puerility in public are ex
pressed unsparingly. It is a sort of reflection
on the Litany. Nobody can pray with gusto for
the Sovereign who takes little Arthur seriously.
• • •
Should Makin and his wife be hanged
together (unless an appeal to the Privy Council be
permitted the male Makin will almost certainly be
executed), the event will be the principal gallows
sensation since the hanging of the Mannings, 40
years ago.
• • •
There can be no gainsaying the fact that
Justice Stephen, in the emotional gem of prepared
rhetoric with which he overwhelmed the miserable
baby-farmers whom he was sentencing to the
gallows, took a great deal for granted. When he
eloquently depicted the heart-cries of the mothers
bereft of their offspring—the lamentations of
social trespassers who only sought to hide away
their “accidents” with the least expense and
publicity ! —and pictorially denounced the fiends
who would bury a dead baby in a backyard “as
you would the carcase of a dog,” he certainly
abandoned judicial certainties for hasty and
imaginative conclusions. An equally imaginative
historian might as easily conjure up in the dock
an exaggerated Makin who should, with hardened
gall, interrupt the Judge in his vision of judg-
ment by snapping out—“ What are you giving
us? How d’ye know we didn’t bury that
kid alive?” How indeed? There was no
more real legal evidence to show that some or all
of the missing babies were not buried alive, than
there was to show that all of them had not died a
natural death, and that the Makins had only been
guilty of concealment of birth, in order to save
registration worries and funeral expenses.
# # *
One of the solemn humours of the final
stages of the Makin trial was contributed by
Attorney Tommy Williamson when addressing
Judge Stephen as legal adviser for the prisoners
(as has become the privilege, under the new
N.S.W. Act, of a mere unbewigged attorney). In
his best municipal style, Mr. Williamson thanked
the Court for the impartiality ; which it had
exhibited throughout the trial! How disgusted
Judge Stephen was !
• # #
Makin himself is a psychological conun-
drum. The most unexpected extremes meet in
his publicly-seen character. ”Sln this Herod of the
Sydney suburbs the most -wildly expectant of
philosophic analysts would never have expected
to find any qualities resembling, in the faintest
degree, either heroism or the chivalric instinct,
Yet both were evinced,'in some of their unusual
? bases, during the period of Makin’s public torture,
'he man absolutely compelled the admiration of
the Crown Law officials by the dogged determina-
tion with which he maintained a bold front while-
the halter was being drawn around his neck.
When at last he was absolutely trapped,
when even the off-chance of a successful technical
appeal was changed to a bitter certainty of awful
menace, when Judge Stephen’s avalanche of
rhetoric was hurled upon him and his hysterical
partner, Herod Makin put his arm around his
wife’s waist and tender!}' sustained her in the hour
of her darkest adversity ! Who can read the com-
plex riddle of a criminal heart? ”
* « *
And Mrs. Makin, who had made her living
out of baby-fanning, when she at last stood in the
shadow of the noose and beam, she moaned :
‘‘My babes! my babes!” Which babes?—the
ones she murdered or the ones she had borne to
Herod? Probably she meant Herod’s, liven the
tigress likes its own cubs.
# # «
A box containing the clothes of Emily
Mather (Deeming’s late cemented relative) goes
to England by the steamer Habsburg, consigned
to the mother of the murdered woman. The
Bulletin is prepared to take reasonable odds that
some calamity will overtake the Habsburg. The
curse of Deeming is on board, and, judged by
recent events, that curse is just beginning to get
into good working order.
* * *
The logical result of the testimonial of
character gushingly given in the press by &
good-natured Sydney clergyman to the unfortu-
nate young man wrongfully arrested on sus-
picion of having murdered his fiancee, and since
honourably discharged* should be certificates like
this: “This is to say that in my opinion
John Smith, a constant attendant at my Little
Bethel Bible-class and a diligent searcher after
Truth, would never, under any circumstances,
ravish and murder his sweetheart.” Who shall
draw the line between ambidexter and sinister
friendship? The best certificate of a man’s
character is sometimes his face. The remark-
able narrowness of the jaw possessed by the
small, frail and attenuated J eater certainly offers
to anybody but the most dunder-headed policeman
irrefragable proof that he would be no more likely
to conceive or carry out sq abominable an outrage
than would the waxen fisrnre of old Johnny
Fawkner in Kreitmayer’s show. The Bulletin
always sympathises with ' the man whose good
character is vouched for by the clergy. The cloth,
no doubt, means well, but in its innocence it has
certified to the bona-fides of so many plausible
rascals that a testimonial from a minister of the
Gospel is one of the very last things ambitioned
by anybody who knows his way round.
* * *
Earl Jersey declined to leave the s.s. Cat-
terthun, at Trinity Bay (N.Q.) upon the invita-
tion of Mayor Draper, to visit the lions of Cairns.
Draper and Collector of Customs Hartley went
out to coax Jersey in a five-ton steam-launch, the
only other vessel available —a 10-ton cutter—
Laving been previously hired by a crowd of
Once more : “You can always tell a
HIS FIXED CONVICTION.
MEMBER OF COMMERCIAL TRAVELLERS’ REFORMATION SOCIETY : “My young friend, are you
a traveller by profession?”
BANK CLERK (en route for Darlington Gaol—exhibiting the bracelets): “ No—by conviction.”
Cairns man because he takes his hat off whenever
he meets a Chinaman.”
• • *
The position of N.S.W. Acting-Governor
Darley is pathetic. His term of vice-regal gran-
deur lasts but for a few weeks, and, having an
economic soul, he didn’t take possession of Govern-
ment House, which lies temporarily deserted.
But through the horrid irony of fate it seems just
possible that a wandering Austrian Archduke will
strike the province during the Chief Justice’s spell
of transient pomp. If so, his Honor will have to
go to the expense of moving into Government
House, so that he may more impressively enter-
tain a potentate who is reputedly one of the
hardest men on earth to entertain. He will
have to cart his plate and linen to his new
domicile, and probably to borrow more plate
and linen to meet the sudden strain on his
resources. Then he will have to read up Austrian
court etiquette and spend an agonising fortnight
living up to it.
Austrian court etiquette is about the toughest
ever heard of. In the whole two weeks
the Archduke mustn’t see Mr. Darley’s
back once, therefore the Acting-Governor, when
he wants to quit the room, must bob out back-
wards, and if there is anything in the way he will
inevitably fall over it. It is an open question
whether he can sit down without permission,
and if the Archduke forgets to give the
required permission he may have to stand
up for three days and nights at a stretch.
When he has been allowed to sit down it is ques-
tionable whether he can get up again without the
Archduke’s authority. He will probably be re-
quired to speak German whether ho knows it or
not. When he advances to meet the Archduke
they must both take exactly the same number of
steps, and arrive on the same leg right in the cen-
tre of the room ; if this manoeuvre isn’t conducted
successfully they have to go back and do it all
over again. If the Archduke wants to go out at
night in disguise and have a fly round in China-
town, etiquette demands that the Roman-faced
Chief Justice (a shining light of the Y.M.0.A.)
shall accompany him, whether upright or on all
fours we really do not yet know. There must be
a separate entertainment at Government House
every day, and it must be sufficiently novel and
cheerful to lift the horribly-dejected heir (who
became heir because of the giddiness, ending in
suicide, of the Emperor’s son) out of his habitual
melancholy, and bring a look of joy to his dreary
countenance.
By the time the visit is over, Chief _ Justice
Darley will not only have “ blewed ” his hard-
earned savings, but his constitution will be all
broken up with riot and nocturnal dissipation,
and Government House will be one mass of cigar-
ash and stale tobacco-srnoke and assorted ruins.
Then the Acting-Governor will just have time to
get the place cleaned up for his successor and get
back into private life. His reign will be short
and full of trouble, and the memory of his visitor
will haunt him for the balance Of his days, and in
his dreams he will walk backwards before spectral
archdukes for myriads of ages, and prance in a
court suit over the entire solar system, with his
sword getting between his legs all the while.
* * *
Captain Taylor, M.L.A., mentions, with
virtuous pride, that the expenses of the Melb.
Mace Board did not exceed .£2O. Evidently the
lady witnesses, one of whom looked very thirsty,
were not invited to take refreshments at the
country’s cost. And Taylor, too, must have sold
his valuable time at an alarming sacrifice.
* # #
In the opinion of the Melb. Mace Board
the missing bauble was “ stolen for the purpose of
being melted down for its value, and, notwith-
standing the continued efforts of the detective-
police for 15 months no trace of it has been
found,” If the Board’s opinion were melted down
for its value it probably wouldn’t be found worth
the paper it was written on.
# # *
Meanwhile, The Bulletin, after careful
consideration, finds as follows : “That the Mace
was not stolen. It strayed. And in consequence
of the search made by the detective-police all trace
of it was lost in the melting-pot. And that the
falsehood of one or more witnesses who gave
evidence before the Mace Board has been reck-
lessly assumed by the said Board.”
* * #
When the floods had just subsided a num-
ber of Brisbane ladies formed themselves into a
kind of Dorcas Society, and met together on cer-
tain days to make impossible undergarments for
the washed-out sufferers. They had no particular
experience at the work, and the results didn’t
amount to much ; they stopped to talk too fre
quently, or to argue about a pattern, or to advise
each other concerning a gusset or something, and
the whole meeting put together didn’t do enough
to earn a living for two or three ordinary seam-
stresses. Nevertheless, the Flood Committee
felt that the Samaritans wanted something to keep
them up, and every working day a comfortable
lunch and afternoon tea were sent in and charged
to the fund, and the cost thereof made the Dorcas
Society a dead loss. At last, a more democratic
woman than the rest put her small kid boot down
on the extravagance, and the refreshments were
abolished. After which the Dorcas Society faded
away till there was practically nothing left of it.
* * *
Th e Bulletin would be glad to know if
the following list of subscriptions to the Clarence
Flood Relief Fund is a standing advertisement, or
what :
& s d
Lord Jersey .. ~ .. 50 0 0
North Coast Steam Coy. >. .. 105 0 0
John See 50 0 0
John M'Farlane .. .. 20 0 0
T. R. Allt 10 10 0
James Kidman 50 0 0
The fact.that the above-mentioned individuals
have given certain sums in charity is no doubt
interesting, but when it is published every day for
a week or two, the interest dies away a good deal,
and people besgin to wonder whether the ad. goes
in free, or whether it is paid for out of the fund, or
how ? Moreover, John See and John M’Farlane
are both “ hon. treasurers,” and their signatures
are on the advertisement, and it doesn’t look well
to see any man advertising his own donation and
that of his friend Jersey 18 times or thereabouts,
when the subscription of the ordinary citizen is
only inserted once. The Bulletin hereby invites
Mr. See'and his friend to stop blowing about their
donations quite suddenly.
• * «
Dear Bulletin, —Your little “ love-story”
about the lady whose hand was much sought in
marriage on account of her many “mishaps,” is,
in reality, founded on fact. In Spencer’s “Study
of Sociology ” it is pointed out that the old Poor
Laws created a class of women valued as wives on
account of the number of their illegitimates. The
difference between fiction and fact is simply that
between paternal and State contributions. It is
reminiscent of the charade said to have been
played by French children. The lover went away
to make his fortune in the Southern Seas, and
returned, after nine years’ absence, with nine bags
of gold to his faithful betrothed. Repressing her
emotion, she draws a curtain and reveals nine
children—one to match each year and rnoney-bag
saying, proudly: “I, too, have not been idle.”
The question now arises as to whether all such
exhibitions of industry and thrift do not entitle
the lady-possessor to At least one vote. I await
a reply from N.S.W. senator Jacob.—Yours, M.P.
* * #
“Procuring” advts. now appear in a cer-
tain Sydney daily. Here, for example :
TV 7 ANTED, by young Man taking a holiday in
'' Sydney, Acquaintance of Young Woman as
companion. Earnest, G.P.O.
This young man doesn’t want a young woman. He
only wants a young female.
# * «
And how does this E. News line strike
you
WILL kind Gentleman of means, from 40, Furnish
vv Home Widow; strictly private. Wilmont,
Newtown Post Office.
And this, in a younger and shyer strain :
TVTANTED, Gentleman to Assist young Lady in dis-
' ’ tress ; good security. Hope, Post Office, Glebe.
When last MHlwraith was Q. Premier he
struck off the Governor’s allowance for State-ball
purposes. The action was merely administrative,
and in no way bound his successor. Will he again
strike it off, now that his brother-in-law is Lieut.-
Governor and has behind him a bevy of hop-loving
women-folk ?
• * #
The people who will be chiefly affected by
the reduction of the Argus are those who have
taken the Age in the past and been ashamed of it.
Loyalty to their principles is thus priced at one
penny per day. Ask such persons for a news-
paper, and you would be handed one with the
apologetic remark, “ It’s only the Age ! ”
* # •
S.M. Herald advt. :
TX/"ANTED, a GOVERNESS, for the country, to
’’ teach four children English, French, music
(organ and piano), singing, dancing, drawing and
painting; references required, stating salary, which
must be moderate.
If the salary is to be moderate the advertiser’s
requirements are certainly not. What sort of a
golden dustman must it be who wants four brats
taught English, French, piano and organ, singing,
dancing, drawing and painting, all the expensive
extras of a private school for—a “ moderate ”
salary ?
* # *
A nice little bit of swamp landscape en-
livened by cows, is exhibited in the Australian
Room at Lake’s show (Melb.). “Morning, at
Heyiugton,” by John Sefton, price 4 guineas.
One of these days the artist may get 40 guineas
for pictures with no more Work in them, and in
the meantime he sets a good example to his
brethren who have exaggerated notions of their
market value. “Morning, at Heyiugton,” is
“ sold,” as it jolly well ought to be.
» * •
Prices put upon some of the British
pictures, in the adjoining rooms, suggest a
splendid margin of “com.” on the possible sale.
As much as £l5O is asked for “October,” art
unattractive pot-boiler by Waterldw, A.R.A.,
and other things, with smaller names on them,
seem to have been painted specially for Josh.
Lake to take to Australia, These are not pot-
boilers —which is an honourable term, after all—
but out-and-out flat-catchers, travelling on their
good old British impudence.
A DOG AND A WIFE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Brown had a dog—a mongrel from the gutter—
Whose sly demeanour argued theivish ways ;
Yet Brown could never once be brought to utter
One word concerning him except in praise.
The dog was faithless - following nasal leading
To foreign larders, owned by other men ;
Yet Brown was constantly his mongrel feeding,
And sought him daily in his canine den.
When neighbours urged the frequent misdemeanour-
The slaughtered poultry and the worried cat— *
Brown’s sense of chivalry at once grew keener,
IHs dog, he vowed, could never have done that.
The cur was fond of heeling passing horses j
A man unseated was a rapture rare ;
He revelled hourly in his evil courses,
And died—suspended by a rope —in air.
Brown’s dog is gone ; but Brown is daily lying
About the mongrel and his virtues high—
And all the friends who sped the canine dying,
Are hoping daily that Brown, too, may die.
Brown had a wife, a modest, gentle lady,
Who did her duty, as some women do ;
But Brown, himself, was just a trifle shady,
And donned his virtue when he went to woo.
Each found the other not the sort of being
Each had imagined in the courting days,
For Mrs. Brown, Brown’s faults could not help seeing
And Brown said nothing in his lady’s praise.
Poor Mrs. 8., from Brown’s cold persecution,
No harbour of tranquillity could reach,
She bore her woes with silent resolution,
For Brown claimed full monopoly of speech.
Among his mates Brown gave his free opinion
The wife should always be the household slave,
Nor should she long to exercise dominion
In any sphere this side the yawning grave.
Brown’s wife is dead—his callous conduct filled her
With suicidal mania at the end ;
And after he was certain he had killed her,
He wooed and won her most familiar friend.
M.


a clear nighty
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & CO.
(LIMITED),
Solo Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JITLTtJS FEtJRICH,
UEBEL & LECH LETTER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Maker-'.
ESTEY ORGANS, Booscy’s BA ND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
The British Home Secretary has come t°
the conclusion that a boy of 16, who murdered a n
old woman and committed a criminal assault upo n
a young one, is too mad to be hanged. Yet h e
seemed to be equal to the legal test as to a know-
ledge of right from wrong. Anyway he could
distinguish between a damsel and an aged female.
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
Is not only a superb stomachic, but stimulates
both the organs of urination and the bowels to
vigorous action ; avoid imitations.
John Bull’s gold or silver coin is, as often
as not, left to speak tor itself by its circumference.
The old spade-guinea on John Bull’s watch-chain
has no value stated upon either side, neither has
the ordinary half -crown, nor the Jubilee sovereign.
Even the latest edition of the shilling has to be
taken for granted. Good old John Bull! lie has
learned to recognise his coinage by its variations
in size and “tail ” design, and the other nations of
the earth are not worth considering in the matter.
Now, if England were only Scotland the cautious
Mint wouldn't dream of issuing a sovereign with-
out a footnote to the effect that it is worth one
pound sterling or 4SO bawbees.
THOSE WHO NEED IT.
Persons recovering from severe illness ; those
who have impaired their vitality by overwork
need Wolfe’s Schapps.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (George-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*
EOSE ; S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
T H E HES T J) II I N K F O 11 A L I
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold by a I Storekeepers, etr.
General Agents:
JULES REWARD «5c CO
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bishop of Adelaide relates how he
Was so pleased with the singing of his cathedral
choir, at some special week-day service, that he
“tipped” the boys to stimulate them to fresh
exertions. But, when the evening service came,
he repented of his donation. Each boy-Jack in
the chorus had a pound of “cocoa nut chips ” on
his chest, and the central solo sounded like a bull-
frog suffering from the death-rattle.
Lord Hopetoun contributed £5 towards a
presentation to a Melbourne policeman whom he
had frequently met on duty at Government House,
where he “ formed a high opinion of his services.”
Which looks as though a good deal of judicious
“chuckingout ”is necessary at vice regal festivals.
* * *
The grammar of gushing loyalty. From a
Maoriland address to Gov. Glasgow ;
We assure your Excellency that notwithstanding oltr
position amonifst the hills our loyalty to our Queen and
our adopted country is as warm and sincere as any part
of the British Empire.
Scene; Victoria Park, Brisbane. Couple
“spooning.” Suddenly the girl exclaims:
“There’s a man watching us. Look, he’s lying
down near the bushes.” George bravely threatens
to do for anyone “dogging” him, and is only
restrained from personal violence by his sweet-
heart. As the man still stays, they decide to
leave. Next day the papers announce the finding
of a suicide’s body after a week’s exposure.
• # •
Dear Bulletin, —“ Snakes” Ellis, referred
to by “Gi ” in a late issue, and a member of the
now much-advertised Howard do Walden family,
was a snake-fancier ere ever he saw the Barcoo.
At Sandhurst (Eug.) military college, in ’63, the
one-armed veteran Capt. Woolhouse had once to
demand this explanation from an orderly of C
company: “How is this, Allan: Mr. Ellis tells
me you haven’t been near his room for days?”
“No, I haint, sir; it’s a-swarmin’ alive with
deadly reptiles.” Captain Woolhouse went to
reconnoitre, but closed Ellis’s door with a pre-
cipitancy unusual to a brave man so soon as he
saw several writhing serpents playing hook-and-
ringbolt games among themselves. Ellis’s snakes
were banished beyond the precincts of the college,
quarters being provided for them at the “ Duke of
York.” —Yours, Cq.
Dear Bulletin,
—Up our way (a N.S.
Wales district) a
clergyman was stuck
badly in the “offer-
tory.” He wrote to
the lady-head of every
homestead, informing
her that he had a
foundling to baptise ;
would she charitably
permit the waif to be
christened at her re-
sidence? If so, he
intended to name it
after her; also, would
she and her good man
stand sponsors? Then
he carted a borrow-
ed baby around the
district to eacli house
consecutively. There
was a gush of re-
sponsive charity.
Each complimented
woman cordially
agreed with the sug-
gestion that she should
give a guinea to her
namesake, and each
made more or less of
a cake in honour of
the event. Result ; A
baby with 26 distinct
sets of names ; 641 b.
of uneaten cake ; and
£27 6s. in hard cash.
—Yours, Shepherd.
• *
The bell of St.
George’sß. C. Church,
Carlton (Melb.), was
once a fire-bell. It is
still a fire-bell.
Useless now to ask the time of any Mel-
bourne man,
* # #
Melb. County Court considers that the
relations between Mr. and Mrs. Clara Parker are
“of a most remarkable character.” Husband and
wife each put in claims for money lent to the
other, and this in quite a pleasant, connubial way.
There seems to be no real animosity between the
accommodating couple. Parker states, more in
sorrow than in anger, that prior to 1890, fickle
Clara went away to America (quite unexpected
like) for one year. “When she came back she
owed him £4OO, and repaid him £375,” for which
amount she ineffectually sued her lovin’ husband
last week. Clara was under an impression that
the said repayment was a loan, the misunder-
standing having arisen from the slovenly manner
in which the receipt was drafted, we presume.
The Court was right. Parker and his Clara, con-
sidering their marriage relations, are remarkable
characters, indeed. And where does millionaire
Joe Clarke come in ?
A Modern Miracle-Worked
On Saturday bight, “Professor” Richard, the
“electric healer” opened his show at Sydney
School of Arts, admission varying from 3s. down-
wards. There Was a large audience, and the
takings evidently dropped like the gentle dew
from heaven into the good man’s bank-account.
The “ Professor what he is professor of does
not appear very distinctly—was preceded by u
tired-looking man who Bounded on a somewhat
discordant piano With the groan of a lost soul in
its lower notes, and as the frowsy curtain went up
this person assaulted his instrument to the tune
of “Seethe Conquering Hero Comes.” Then he
came. On close inspection the “Professor”
proved to be a greasy-lookiug, intensely cocky
little man, a caricature in petto of the departed
flautist Giammona, with a vast bush of black hair
and a curious, egg-shaped, yellow countenance.
He talks in shattered English, and in a pious
strain of broken snuffle, and most of his parts of
speech are crippled in both legs. Also, he has a
moist, thick voice, and alludes frequently to his
“ojence.” His countenance though this is
entirely a side-issue and has nothing to do with
the subject—is strikingly like that of a certain
oily foreigner who used to sell ladies’ gloves in
Melbourne. This artist invented a new way of
fitting on his wai’es: the girl extended her hand with
her elbow resting on the counter, and the oily one
gently stroked her fingers with his podgy hand
and insinuated the glove into its place by the aid,
apparently, of an electric current. And, as he did
so, he used to leer upwards into the customer’s
eyes with his huge head in a capsized position,
and say, softly and lovingly: “Is tha-a-at ni-i-i-ica
easy way, ladee?” But, as we have said, this is a
mere digression.
* * *
On Saturday night the “Professor” came to
the front in a long black coat, and for twenty-five
weary minutes he told a dislocated tale about an
A CADAVER.
MELBOURNE MAN : “But then, you see, Melbourne is so well laid out.”
SYDNEY MAN : “Yes, so well laid out that it’s a pity they don’t give it
decent burial.”
absolutely incomprehensible female who seemed
to have no possible bearing on anything. As far
as could be made out, this lady ran away from
home at the age of 17, and went somewhere, and
an altogether undefined and shadowy man settled
■£sooo on her, whereupon she came back from the
place she went to and married another man still
more undefined, who took her £5OOO, and a third
man came on the scene and insisted on her going
to an hospital under some horrible circumstances
not clearly specified, and when she came out and
got clear of the fangs of the third man, the second
man had vanished and the house was “for let,”
and the first man was never again heard of. “We
shall commit a fall,” said the Professor, wildly,
“ and is it any reason that there shall be one lost
sheep and we shall throw dust on that sheep?”
For 25 minutes the Professor rushed along con-
cerning this female and the three men in a dust-
storm of adjectives and broken participles and a
blizzard of decomposed interjections, and then the
yells of the audience broke him up, and the story
of the interminable lady ended abruptly in some
touching remarks about the British flag.
* # «
Then the healing began. The first patient was
a deaf lady, who made no response when her ear
was yelled into. Plainly she was a bad case.
After the Piofessor had charged himself with
electricity by jerking at a handle, and had done
sundry performances which were rather hard to
follow owing to his furious velocity, the patient
was put up at the centre of the stage while the
healer asked her a few questions about her fami.y
affairs from the wings. This was evidently in-
tended to show that she had improved con-
siderably, but as the patient’s replies were
practically inaudible, no one could tell with
certainty whether she heard anything or not.
Even in the front row it was difficult to say
whether she was giving a few extracts from
an Vet of Parliament, or whether she war
simply scared, or whether she was cursing
the Professor, or what. Presently that gentle-
man handed over her bonnet and showed her
off the platform. The next patient was also a
lady, and she stated th it she had been deaf for 30
years. She was also understood to be partially
blind in one eye. This patient, however, an-
swered with reasonable success when the Pro-
fessor yelled an interrogation into her ear, where-
upon he didn’t yell any more. When her cure
was over for the night she answered questions
addressed to her at three or four yards range with
tolerable coherence —that is to say, with about the
same coherence as she did when yelled at before
the cure. Neither she nor the first patient stated
definitely that she heard any better after th
treatment, and nothing was said about any im-
provement in her eye. She also took her bonnet
and left the platform in a stunned and bewildered
fashion amid tremendous applause. Just here
the Professor made a few scientific remarks about
what he called “Anna-Tommy.”
* m *
The third subject was said to have become
blind “on the sth of March,” from which it
seemed as if the affliction had been of an instan-
taneous kind. The cause of this sudden calamity
was not stated, nor was it explained whether the
blindness was total or only partial. When the
treatment was over the patient located a burning
match held close to his eyes, and identified one or
two colours at close range, though with some diffi-
culty; but whether he could or could not have done
the same on his first appearance was not
explained. Nobody seemed to notice this point,
however, and the applause was terrific. The
Professor, by this time, had evidently got the
audience by the hair, and he complacently dabbed
his smoking countenance with his handker-
chief. The man who perspires profusely
usually has plenty energy. This is a
generalisation—perhaps it is a platitude. The
blind man departed without any apparent
enthusiasm in his sad, lack-lustre countenance.
He didn’t say that he was better, or worse, or just
the same ; he had to be assisted off the stage very
much as he was assisted on to it, and he looked
as little like a cured patient as could well be
imagined. After him a semi-paralytic ex-police-
man was helped into the chair, and partially un-
dressed behind a curtain, and after a few further
remarks about Anna-Tommy the Professor tackled
him manfully. This sufferer looked healthy, and
didn’t seem very paralytic. When the operation
was over he walked once or twice across the stage,
and departed—with a little assistance. After him
came the triumph of the evening—a rheumatic
{jatient who arrived with apparent difficulty, and
eft at a gallop with his legs bare and his boots in
his hand. The excitement over his exit was a
fearful thing to witness. When he was gone the
healing exhibition was over for the night.
# • *
Each of these patients brought a letter from a
clergyman, magistrate, or J.P., vouching for his
or her genuineness. The first three of these letters
were examined with special care by the present
writer, and they presented this curious difference ;
two clergymen set forth that “ the bearer is suffer-
ing,” &c., while the third, a J.P., merely re-
marked, in a non-committal fashion, concerning
the paralytic person, that “ the bearer in-
forms me he is suffering.” Possibly if the writers
had all three been J.’sP., they would all have set
forth that the bearer had only “informed ” them ;
the magistrate, as a rule, has a mind that ie
rendered move or less cautious by contact with
lawyers, cronk witnesses and hog-thieves, while
the parson is so accustomed to vouching for
miracles which occurred centuries before he
was born, and swearing to things which he
never saw, that he grows somewhat reckless, and
is about the loosest witness in the community.
Owing to the persistent discord of the piano it
was impossible to know whether the patients
made any remarks, favourable or otherwise, to the
Professor while under treatment. Also, there was
nothing of a visible or definite character to con-
nect the patients mentioned in the letters with
those upon the platform. When the curtain went
down the rheumatic person already mentioned
appeared suddenly at the back of the hall, where
he had evidently been putting on his boots and
socks in retirement, advanced at a vigorous run,
and bounding on the stage vanished behind the
curtain. Whether he wanted to say anything of a
private nature to the Professor, or whether
he had been shoo’d off the platform in such
haste that he had left some needful garment
behind him and he couldn’t go home with-
out it, didn’t appear. But considering the
decisive manner in which the healer bounced an
unauthorised patient who tried twice to get on the
stage without the necessary introductions, this
undue familiarity on the part of the rheumatic
person was surprising, to say the least of it.
• * •
There is much hard coin of the realm in the
business, anyhow, and electric healing, done gratia
in a big hall, pays a lot better than the same thing
done in a consulting-room for a two-guinea fee.
Also, there is a certain amount of humour incidental
to the business, as witness the following extract
from a Melbourne Standard report, quoted with
all due solemnity on the “ Professor’s ” circular ;
She was carried up by four attendants, like an over-
grown Queen of the May. She was placed behind a
screen while her clothes were being adjusted for treat-
ment, and when the screen was removed and she con-
fronted the audience, the spectacle was a strange one.
Her legs were absolutely bared. She had not stood for
18 months, and was recommended by the Mayor of
Richmond. In a few minutes she was walking up and
down the stage, having even put on her own boots and
stockings.
Considering this and the hideously inconsequential
story—strangely reminiscent of Mr. F.’s aunt—
about the lady who was taken to the hospital,
The Bulletin suspects the hairy wonder of being
a person who jokes with much difficulty.
The three portraits attached represent
Emma Harrison, the victim of the recent Darling-
hurst tragedy ; Jeater, her fiance, originally
arrested on suspicion, bub subsequently dis-
charged ; and Archer, now in custody. Miss
Harrison, during the temporary absence of the
other inmates of the house, was outraged and
strangled, the crime being only discovered on the
ensuing morning. Jeater had been with her
from eight o’clock till ten, and, about an
hour after his departure, it is alleged,
screams were heard issuing from an upper room.
The accused, Archer, who lived in the house,
is, apparently, unable to account for his move-
ments on the night in question, except by stating
that he fell asleep somewhere in a state of intoxi-
cation. Also, sundry blood-stains were found oh
his clothing, and on these facts the case for the
prosecution mainly rests up to date.
W. H. JEATER. newsagent, Bathurst-street, Sydney; who
was engaged to Miss Emma Harrison, Burton-street,
Darlinghurst; and who was arrested on suspicion of
being her murderer, but discharged on satisfactory
grounds.
MISS EMMA HARRISON, seamstress, lately employed at
Farmer & Co.’s, Sydney; the victim of the Darling-
hurst outrage.
GEORGE ARCHER. a married man, aged 27 years, alleged lo
be a butcher by trade, and lately employed in the
stables of the Sydney Tramway and Omnibus Co.;
in custody accused of being the murderer of Miss
Harrison.


Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract)
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
hy its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eicalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price, For external use try Colbmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.B. W
£49,460 wor|,h for <£l,
uuinioQ
sag
PBM FILL'S
WHBATENA.
Tb« Germ ol Wh**t. A Q,
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World I
Bar UXT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON’S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any otner medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
«bt. • - II
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen ;
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Baron Berzilius’—
Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation._
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. Ithas a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBR-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cared by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The City and County I. L. and B. Co. of
Sydney seems likely to break the record by paying
nothing in the £ whatsoever* Some time ago, when the
Oity and County began to get into serious trouble, the
directors had an inspiration, by virtue of which they
borrowed £22,000 to go on with from the Colonial Finance
Co., at 14 per cent, per annum (nine per cent, interest
and five per cent* commission), and gave as security a
mortgage over all the company's assets and the uncalled
capital as well. And now the assets have shrunk so
much, and the uncalled capital is so very uncertain, that
no one can say positively that the Colonial Finance Co.
won’t mop up the whole concern, deposits, capital,
and all. The Colonial Finance Co. itself has had bad
times, but it has kept its nose to the sea and been steered
by people who were on deck all the while.
* * •
The Victorian Mortgage and Deposit Bank,
(Melb.) is being calmly and peacefully liquidated by two
gentlemen who decline to have “ anything to do with the
press.” M‘AJlister Howden, forulerly of the Mercantile
Finance crowd, and J. S. Mercer* a faithful relative of
Matthew Davies, enjoy the winding-up of this delectable
“bank.” Last week they called a Confidential meeting of
depositors to hear the said M‘Allister tead a report in an
unobtrusive manner. Also, the liquidators sought
authority to effect compromises, and the Unfortunate
meeting gave them authority to do any mortal thing
which would tend to produce the ghost of a dividend. A
suggestion that a copy of the official report should be sent
to the newspapers was indignantly sat upon by the liqui-
dators, but they consented to have it printed for private
circulation. This was kind ; nevertheless, the report will
not prove a very useful addition to financial scandal
literature when it gets into print. The unwritten history
of the Victorian Mortgage and Deposit Bank would be
much more interesting.
* * #
tn re the Brisbane Equitable Building Society’s
lottery, Trie Bulletin is assured that all the properties to
be raffled will be free of any mortgage or liability whatso-
ever* and every prize winner wilt get a clear ahd indis-
putable title. Also, no ticket-holder incurs any liability
beyond the price of his ticket, and the Equitable, which
conditcts the lottery, is in no way concerned with the
(roubles of the Queensland Deposit Bank; it merely takes
over certain properties for cash, and has no connection
with the deceased bank’s liabilities.
* # •
Re State concessions granted, as is usual in
N.S.W., without the stipulation of any penalty for non-
fulfilment. It is quit? common to see a private bill sent
to a select committee, then debated and amended by both
Houses, and finally passed, only to be afterwards dropped
by the promoters, simply because they fail to float a com-
pany or borrow money for the construction of work. In
the case of the Darling River water scheme, the £lO,OOO
bond insisted upon quickly killed the whole thing. The
promoters of any “private enterprise” who can’t or
won’t put up a reasonable penalty for breach of contract,
should not be allowed to waste the time of Parliament.
* # »
The Sydney raining markets are in a pitiable
condition. It is a boom or nothing in Sydney. The
speculators, investors, and jobbers of Melbourne and
Adelaide do keep stocks alive, and negotiate a hundred
transactions to one completed in Sydney. Whatever it
may be in other directions, Sydney is the slowest mining
community on earth.
# * #
The new financial man of Sydney D.T., refer-
ii- g to the immorality of “underwriting ” in floating
o nnpanies, remarks that the system is carried too far, but
wants to know “ how it is possible to draw the line.” The
writer knows not the many mysterious details of London
underwriting, but has observed its effects on the mining
industry to which it is invariably applied, and would sug-
gest that the line be drawn through it altogether. It is
t tc concealment of underwriting and the over-capitalisa-
tion which underwriting involves that makes it wholesale
robbery of the investing public. The underwriting sys-
t m even damned back for three years the progress of the
Randt, now the greatest gold field in the world. Every-
thing can be bought too dearly ; in the natural order of
things it is the public that loses what the underwriter
gains.
• # •
Because of their silence on the subject we have
it published that there is no urgency for the associated
Banks of N.S.W. to proclaim their determination to stick
io each other in distress, as has been done in Melbourne.
It ought not to be news to any newspaper that there is
absolutely no bank association in N.S.W. One existed up
lo the time of the trouble with the B.N.S.W. over the
Govt. loan, when it was broken up. The banks have a
joint clearing-house, to the maintenance of which each
contributes ; but there begins and ends their association.
• • •
It is time the N.S.W. Government appointed
additional assignees. It is complained that the present
assignees have so many insolvent estates and liquidating
companies in their hands that work is enormously in
arrear. As these officers are paid by results, the appoint-
ment of others would not tax the Treasury,
# * •
“Dumps,” from Queensland, writes us some
doleful generalisations on the jobs accomplished in letting
mines on tribute. After, for some years, paying his hard-
earned savings into a mine, he now learns that it has been
let on eighteen months’ tribute to the former manager
and others, who are also big shareholders. The conditions
are £4 a week to each working tributor, £5 a week to the
manager, and an equal distribution of gold won from the
mine between tributors and shareholders. Poor “Dumps”
innocently enquires whether the writer thinks he has
been “got at?”
• # •
Is Melb. gas going the tram road ?
• » •
Melbourne (Vic.) tram and ’bus returns for
March, ’93, show a total less by £7074 than those for
March, 92; decrease in number of passengers, 626,391.
A telling test of the hard times.
* * #
The Last Call G. M. Co. shareholders have
decided to wind up. As a memorable swindle, the mine
has but one peer— Taranganba.
* • •
Embedded somewhere in every mining manager’s
report is always a sentence framed to feed the hungry
hopes of the call-paying shareholder. Here are some
specimens culled at random from a lot of hanky-panky
Gympie(Q.) shows;—“The reef has not been broken down
in the North level, hut the previous breaking down
showed a good sprinkling of gold.” “ The reef continues
small, but I have seen some fair gold in the stone lately.”
"The reef in this level is small, but it carries fair gold.”
“The reef will average from two to three inches, but I
have seen a little gold in it.” “We are meeting good
breastheads with every appearance of a reef being near.”
These are the baits that catch the calls.
* • m
The Robb railway-contracts and the Raub mine
are birds of a feather. The arbitration over the former
has now occupied five months, and will absorb In legal
costs quite 50 per cent, of the quarter million in dispute.
• • «
The Age seems to belittle the case against
Matthew Davies & Co. in much (be same way as it has be-
littled the charges against other officials of other financial
concerns since the local book of revelations was opened.
• # «
Neither of the Melbourne morning papers re-
ported a “crushing” rejoinder made by liquidator
Ducker to Theodore Fink when the former was cross-
examined on behalf of the Mercantile Bank chairman.
Theodore’s “ warm regard ” for ragmen comes in useful
at these times.
Lawyer Fink, indeed, burnt his fingers terribly in
attempting to “ roast ” Ducker, the chief Crown witness
against the Mercantile bankers. Another instance of the
fact that an honest, clear-headed witness can always ex-
pose the fallacies of even the smartest cross-examiner.
• • •
“ ‘ Some gents goes a-winging and worritting the
birds, but you misses ’em olane and nate.’ Complimen-
tary remark of a gamekeeper. Bear it in mind over the
Mercantile Bank prosecution,’’ remarks a Bulletin cor-
respondent.
* * #
Dear Bulletin, —Melbourne newspapers for
some time past have systematically suppressed unfavour-
able quotations of local bank stock. Interested financial
magnates of great weight and circumference interviewed
sympathetic editors and pointed out that public confi-
dence was being shocked by the fact that the shares in
their banks were changing hands at panic prices, and
demonstrated that the prosperity of the nation was bound
up with that of the banks, don’t you know, and earnestly
observed that they only wanted a little assistance to
restore public confidence. So, instead of quoting actual
sales at low figures, the papers announce that there were
“ no buyers,” and the public assumes that nobody Would
have the shares at any price, and confidence is further off
than ever.—Yours, &c., D.
* * #
The position of Ainslie in the Mercantile Bank
base is distinctly peculiar. An acting-manager of the
Bank at the time of many of its most doubtful trans-
actions, he has been a non-aggressive liquidator since it
Went bung. The Crown neither duplicates him in the
alleged conspiracy, nor produces him as a witness against
his late colleagues; General opinion holds that Ainslie’s
present position is anomalous.
* * *
A Mining Standard man says he was lately
speaking to a young fellow who made, prior to 1889,
<£40,(300, at Broken Hill, He was only 20 years Of age,
was induced to re-invest in silver stocks, and now hasn’t
a copper;
# * *
The “cordial cooperation” extended to the
banks by the Vic. Government would appear to consist irt
its taking large sums of public money out of strong in-
stitutions, and depositing them in the shivery-shakey
concerns.
• • •
Two processes for the treatment of refractory
sulphide ores are being developed at the Broken Hill
Proprietary mine, and an extensive experimental plant is
being erected in each case. The first process, which is
being run by John Howell, general manager of the mine,
claims to dispose of the refractory zinc and sulphur in
the ore by a system of concentration, while the second
process—engineered by H. H. Schlapp, assistant general
manager—is a modification of the method of treatment
recommended by Prof. Schnabel, and consists of roasting
and leaching. It is understood that should the earth
open and swallow Schlapp’s plant bodily, so that not a
vestige remained, Howell would not abandon himself to
his grief to any great extent, while in case a quantity of
dynamite exploded in the vicinity of Howell’s plant, and
left nothing but a tangled mass of old iron and some
bricks, Schlapp would not be found afterwards throwing
stones at his grandmother. The patent of the successful
method of treatment will be worth a Very large sum.
*. * «
The shaft of the Broken Hill Extended mine
at a depth of 1250 ft. is still in country rock, which gives
not the slightest indication of the proximity of an ore
body. Whether or not the Block 10 lode underlays into
the Extended is one of the problems of Barrier mining.
On the assumption that it docs the directors of the
latter property propose to sink the shaft another 100 ft.,
and probably sinking will be continued until funds give
out, or the long-expected ore body is reached. The
interception of the Block 10 lode at a depth of over
1200 ft. would be an event of immense importance to the
Barrier in that it would prove whether or not the sul-
phides become less intractable as depth is attained. The
shaft is already far the deepest on the field, though
greater depths-considerably over 2000 ft.— have been
explored by the diamond drill on the Brisbane Blocks
property.
• * •
A recently-patented method of generating steam
by means of molten slag is undergoing trial on an exten-
sive scale at the Broken Hill Proprietary mine, and it is
expected that in future all the steam used on the mine—
equal, at present, to aboullooo horse power—will be gene-
rated by this method. Other mines possessing smelting
plants will follow suit. The principle of the invention is
exceedingly simple. A charge of molten slag is enclosed
in a steam-tight compartment, and is then played upon
by a jet of water, which is instantly converted into steam
and passes at once into the boiler. The main difficulty
which beset the inventors was how to renew the charge of
slag when its heat had been exhausted. The process will
effect an immense saving in coal, and will be valuable for
the speed with which a high pressure of steam can be
generated.
* * •
Uear Bulletin, —Re the Lady Augusta mine
and the Eidsvold. Eidsvold is certainly in an untried
district, but the drawback is not want of water, Eidsvold
itself being only three miles from the river BUrnett. The
total returns from the field for ’92 were about 14,0000 z.
The Lady Augusta mine is owned by a party of eleven
working men, who bought the mine with £lOOO worth of
machinery from the original co. on 16th Jan., 1892, since
when they have crushed 290 tons quartz for 12520 z. gold
—a little over 4oz. Sdwts. per ton, the biggest return
being soz. ISdwts. and the smallest 3oz. 4dwts. How’s
that for an average ? The shareholders say that they will
stick to the mine and work it out, which working out
should take something like six years at the present rate of
going. —Shareholder.
• • #
The writer was premature in saying, a month
ago, that sufficient water had been caught in the Spa-
Jessop dam to enable sluicing to commence, albeit the
four inches of rainfall have more than half filled the dam,
and the water is backed some miles. Let us hope no
hitch will occur to prevent active operations of the
magnitude anticipated.
* * *
Unlike every other industry, gold-mining is not
endangered by competition. It fosters most other avoca-
tions, but competes with none, not even with itself The
discovery of £20,000,000 worth of gold would not reduce
the value of that metal by a single fraction. Which can
be said of no other metal or mineral.
* • •
A Melbourne insolvent, whose schedule, filed in
Nov., 1887, purported to show liabilities £lOO,OOO, assets
£123,000, surplus £23,000, has finally panned out for the
inevitable halfpenny in the £. Nobody seems to get
beyond that halfpenny now.
* * *
Hard-up unemployed miners are numerous in
N.S.W. Travelling from one field to another they manage
to find tucker along the road. If you cannot get work
you must walk to live in the country districts of Aus-
tralia. Men never starve so long as they can walk—far
enough.
• * •
“ Professor ” Richard’s valuable electro-healing
connection, together with the patent of his electric-chair
and the right to use his name, so that his successor can
pass himself off as the original Richard, are advertised
for sale in the Sydney papers. Which sounds very much
like the apostle Peter advertising a valuable miracle-
working connection in Syria, with the sole right of being
an apostle and raising the dead, and a considerable
business in calling down sudden death on liars, also the
privilege of being the original Peter. By the way, of
whom did Richard buy the business, we wonder? And
does the sale include what he calls his diploma? “ I vill
show you my diploma,” said the professor, on Saturday,
and thereupon fie solemnly handed down for inspection a
leaf from Brisbane Government Gazette, setting forth
that he had applied for a patent for some electric
appliance or other. And when the Professor sells the
name of Albert Riohard what is his own name going
to be? *
• • *
Another patent quartz-crusher, “Muclie’s,” has
entered the field. Th" machine consists of three semi-
circular chambers or pans about 4ft. dia., boiled together
in line, each fitted with a rocker. They are placed a little
below each other so that the tailings from one go into the
other. The crushing is done by chilled-faced heavy
rollers, 1 which, with the rocking motion roll from
one side to the other of the pans. Amalgamation is
allowed in the pan itself as well as the outer ripples which
are subjected to the same backward and forward motion.
The rockers beneath the machines, as well as the action
of the roller, reduce friction, and therefore the power re-
quired for working. The scheme looks promising.
# * 9
An erstwhile “millionaire” money-lender, who
has screwed up many a hundred wretches, had to ask tor
“ extension of time ” at a meeting of his creditors in
Melbourne last week. Capital absorbed by suspended
banks, depreciation in value of Tram and other shares,
and a safe-full of worthless land-boomers’ kites.
* # •
A Melbourne architect was, during the boom,
appointed to a newly-formed public co. conditionally on
his taking shares in the concern as his commission. Mucn
work was done, but at the present time the share value is
nil, and a writ for several hundreds, issued against him
for unpaid calls, is all the payment he has received.
» * *
Out of 14 Melbourne finance companies which
lent money upon approved promissory notes at 20 per cent,
four years ago, not a single one is now out of liquidation,
and the great majority of the local Jewish money-
lenders are also as stiff as a certain racing sta y‘® ®
odds-on favourites. Verily the glory of Israel hatn
departed !
• * *
Dear Bulletin, — Be Swamp Oak. You err in
saying that all recent local crushings are from new finds.
There has been really no recent And. Late crushings
have been from Routine Plush, Highland Mary, Storm
King, Sophia, Rising Moon, Queen of Sheba, Great
Britain—all Worked since the field’s opening. All these
have equalled, if not surpassed, their previous returns.
—Yours, D.D. Swamp Oak, 31st March, 1893.
# * *
Until recently, a ton of ore in the Rand field
Consisted of 22401b5. It is now, for what reason the
writer knows not, 20001bs. In N.S.W. tons are just what
the management likes to make them, and usually they
are made big.
i # *
As late as September the pious J abez Balfour,
M.P., was taking the chair at meetings of his busted
societies in London, and carrying resolutions in favour of
voluntary liquidation under his own management.
Shareholders are all the same at both ends of the world.
They take at least three months to discover that the men
who have laid their property in ruins are the least desir-
able persons to have the fingering of the debris. See how
meekly the Australian Banking Co.’s shareholders elected
Abigail as liquidator ! Balfour was a most “respectable
man, with a huge reputation for “ thrift,” a prominent
teetotaller, and a much - admired patron of alleged
religion. He gave £lOOO worth of peals of bells to several
churches, and distributed 1000 free copies of his own
portrait.
« * *
Scene —N.S.W. alluvial diggings. Party just
bottomed third duffer, and meeting to consider what to
do next. When they had agreed that it was bottom, one
says, “ Well, I propose we drive her a bit, she’s dipping.”
Disgusted mate: “Yes, dipping to the poorhouse.
I’m full.”
• # *
The news that some ex- Australian miners have
found gold in Ecuador, Equatorial South America, will
help to boom the flagging Paraguaylia scheme, since Aus-
tralians are as ignorant of American geography as the
English are of Australian.
# * #
“The certainty that punishment will be swift
and certain is the best known preventive of crime. It is
sometimes said that communities are injured by these
exposures; but it may rather be imagined that what
injures a community is not strictness in inquiries and
promptness in action, but is a cynical indifference to ill
conduct and to false pretences, on the false assumption
that ‘all do it.’” (The Argus on the Anglo-Australian
Bank swindle.) It sounds like some recent Bulletin
verse put into prose.
• • •
The Deepwater (N.S.W.) paper bewails the
dullness of the district, and advocates prospecting for tin.
But why the long silence about Webbs and all the little
Webbs ; of Oastlerag and all its pups, and other wonderful
shows in the Deepwater district? They are all dead,
hence the local newspaper livens itself upon other things.
* * *
Hobbs and Wright, of the Liberator Building
Society (London), which recently closed up with a
£3,000,000 deficiency, have been sentenced to 12 years’
gaol, and Newman, a smaller light of the institution, to
five years. They were all pious men, especially Hobbs,
who was nearly bursting with holiness, and among them
they laid many church foundation-stones in the days of
their greatness.
“Jack” Roberts has resigned the editor-
ship of Melbourne Evening Standard.
Reforms come from the Tories—look at
the new Blaok Wednesday in Melbourne.
A revolt of Siberian prisoners resulted in
40 being shot dead on the spot. Lucky devils.
Has “ Samuel Rinder, Wedderburn,” a
mortgage over that Melbourne daily paper’s build-
ing and a bill-of-sale on the plant—or are his
effusions simply published at ordinary advertising
rates ?
The popularity of Mr. W. Franks, late of
the firm of F. T. Wimble & Co., Sydney, was
attested by the many shapes assumed by the
valedictories tendered him on the eve of his depar-
ture for England. On one day a numerously-
attended picnic to Middle Harbour; next day a
picnic to the National Park, attended by a large
company; followed later in the week by private
dinners, and the formal presentation to the de-
Rarting gentleman of tokens of esteem from the
faster Printers’ Association, the Printers’ Cricket
Association, and his late employes. And, finally,
on board the Oroya, a host of Mr. Franks’friends,
presided over by Mr. J. Millett, met and pre-
sented him, over a glass of wine, with a handsome
farewell address and a purse of sovereigns where-
with to buy a token of their esteem.
Artistic connoisseurs should visit Callan’s
Gallery, 318 George-street, Sydney, where are to
be seen (and purchased) the original pictures in
“ black and white ’’—mostly in water-colours, but
some in oils—drawn for the purpose of reduction
and engraving for the “Picturesque Atlas of
Australasia.” There are about a thousand of
these valuable originals, many of which, having
served their primary purpose, are now for private
sale at a great reduction upon their actual cost.
The pictures include the work of such artists as
Smedley (of world-wide fame), Schell (who since
his return to the United States has been appointed
art-manager for Harper Bros.), and Fitler (an
artist of much foreign celebrity), besides such
familiar Australian artists as Fullwood, J. G.
and G. R. Ashton, Macleod, Mahoney, Bilton,
Cayley, Turner, Tom Roberts, Mrs. Ellis Rowan,
and others. For the production of these pictures,
the artists travelled all over Australasia, no ex-
pense having been spared to secure the most
faithful and the highest class of work. Several
celebrated artists were specially imported from
America at fascinating salaries, and the result has
been a collection of pictures of which the
Picturesque Atlas Co. may be excusably proud.
Smedley’s work has proved quite equal to any-
thing he ever did for “Picturesque America,’
“ Picturesque Canada,” or other topsawyer
illustrated publications. It is not often that real
art-bargains are so available to purchasers.


/\ tT S T Jfcrk. A. LI -A..KT tJ* -A. L -|— > | q ■\7 r xt> ]ST T
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
T.,C 01d... Mutual LH. A— »*» —'» EVERY Y K Alt.
OifebOTOßS—The Hon sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A., Olmmnaill j, T, WALKER, Ewi-i Depu.Y-Ohaimiaii; JOSEPH TEEt'E™*^ MAS LITTLEJOHN, E«q., BENJAMIN SHORT, Ess*. 1. B. 81l ’’
Directors me non. oir MEEKS; Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, r.i.A- mn
Accumulated Funds : Ten and a-Half Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828, yielding Reversionary Bonuses o over
A. W
IXeadL
Office :
87 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTEHSALLS
PIN A. Zi H 3XT 33 3E» April
5.000 at 10 5,000
R OSS H ILL CU 3F* April 39,
10.000 at 10 10,000
8,
1*93.
1893.
(ONLY ADDRESS;
—■ <4 jvjiijjsAl I."
-( C/oGbo. ADAMS(Ownei-), Tatter-
sail’s Hotel &01dClub Premises,
I Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLINS
LAGTO-GLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 5,1893.
r g LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
| SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge over Back Creek, at Marsden, road Mars-
den to Lake Cowal
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Punt for
Tabulam, Clarence River
Bridge over No. 2 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge .
Bridge over No. 3 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge . i
Bridge over No. 4 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge
Supply, during a period of five years, ot Stop-
valves, Hydrants, Surface-boxes, and other
fittings, to be made in the Colony, for Country
Towns Water Supplies.
Additions, &c., Lock-up Gaol, Bombala •
Repairs, &c., Post and Telegraph Office, Port
Macquarie (time extended)
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3.
Construction of Timber Punt for Darling River,
at Bourke
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River at Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Collarendabri
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River at Bombay Crossing
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Mo Kicking".
Easy Shooting. Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breedi-loaders.
AH pikas to suit Purchasers, supplied by
CJowlos Dunn,
GL’NMAKEPvS,
407 George Street, SYDNEY. Send tor List.
RELIEF FROM GOUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
&
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. ijd. 2s. 9d..
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAVKAN & CO.>
18, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over 20 Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN:
s\i»m;v gold up.
BIRTHDAY €IJP.
OT
!)T!
oooox
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive cur reply.
Our Only
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
yy Pkogiiammes Sent on
Application.
m
m
•SiONSTER
ffiSH PRIZEICONSULTATIONS 1
Oare "MANDEES,” ALBUEY, N-SW-
NOW OPEN ON
Birthday Clip, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each
Birthday flip, Sydney. May 27. 5000 at 5.
Brand National Hnrdle. July S. 10,000 at 5.
Brand ftafional Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
p.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully:
“Robin Hood,” c/o. Manders’ Telegram Agency,
DEAN STREET, ALBURY, N.S.W.
r«yj mm
S.EACH.
5. EACH
f
sd
tv
ON THE
HOSE H ILL CXT P.
April 29, 1893.
At 5 each 5,000 At 5 each
First .. ..
Second .. .. 125
Third .. .. 75
N.S. (d.) ..
Other prizes see
100
circulars.
50 Consolations at 2 each, 100.
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes.
BIRTHDAY CUP, May 24 —20,000 at 5 Each.
Registered Letters to “GALA," o/°- H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W. Press
The ONLY Genuine One at 5 each in the Colonies,
and Subscribers witness Drawings.
PICTURESQUE ATLAS
—OF—-
AUSTRALASIA,
Grand Exhibit of the Original Drawings,
specially executed by the well-known and famous
American Artists, W. T. Smedley, E. B. Schell
(since Art Manager of Harper’s Magazine), and
W. C. Fitler; and also by leading Australian
Artists.
H. W. Call an has been favoured by the
Picturesque Atlas Co., Ltd., with instructions to
dispose, at prices far below the initial cost, of
the above Superb Drawings.
An early Inspection is Invited at
H. W. Callan’s Art Gallery,
318 GEORGE STREET.
CHEAP MUSIC! CHEAP MUSIC!
' PAXTOX A CO., 19 Oxford Street, I.OMK>\.
Australian Branch; 251 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 So ius, Duets, Wa’tzes, Polkas, Marches,etc. To be had
of’Music sellers, Booksellers Stationers, etc., throughout
thecGploiVy. or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanslou-St., Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
Amusements.
RITERION T H E A T R E.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS '
of
“ KTIOBE.”
SATURDAY, April B—“A VILLAGE PRIEST.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
Tivoli theatre
(Late the GARRICK) CasCorcagh Street.
Solb Lessee and Manager Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
| Mr. HARKY KI«KA It 1> S |
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
49 REAL GENUINE ARTISTS 49
Million Prices, Dr. ss Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
STARTLING and TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
of the
Great English Sensational Play ,
3v31 35T T_o HVL .A. ZNV
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATR.
fs
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., besi
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. Cd., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. Cd., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. Cd., 18s. (id., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. Gd., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, _255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and ,£5 ss.
1 Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS :—Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr. Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-sfcreet, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
The LONDON GAIETY BURLESQUE COMPANY
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING! SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue —
105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE: Hon. B. B. Houston-, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipvvood, Esq.,
AcHESON OVEHfiND, ESQ., C.E. ■
SOLICITOR: Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. 1. —Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide - streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost =830,000;
rental value, .£1,500.
Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of <£lo,ooo
1 of £5,000
4 of £2,500
5 of £l,OOO
&i.f Jim
10,»( xir.n
60 of JL'OK*
100 of &stt
100 of -£25
125 of .£2O
1.000 of £lO
1.000 of £5
Total, .£105,000. no deduction of any kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49,480 worth*
Theatre royal
Lessee .. Mr. 8. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
EVERY EVENING! (at 7.45) EVERY EVENING'
“robbery UNDER ARMS,”
ALFRED DAMPIER,
Miss LILY DAMPIER,
Miss ROSE DAMPIER,
Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL,
and a Complete Company of Capable Comediennes and
Comedians.
Box Office at the Theatre, where seats may be secured
six days in advance.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
m
K
m
r&sa*
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is 6d
THE
Life, Adventures,
land Confessions of
ia Sydney Barmaid
! To be had only of
M'bn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
rjUT/ES
OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Price—One Shilling.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Wesfcralian cricket team area ratherpoor lot.
North, an old Oxford player, and Orr, formerly a Mel-
bourne Club player, are the only batsmen, Bishop is,
however, a first-class trundler. The rest are below medio-
fcrity - * * •
The V.R.O.’s judicious scheme of retrenchment
in racing stakes will start with the Queen’s Birthday
meetin"'. The reduction in the added money will still
leaVe The stakes bigger than they were five years ago
when the “ boom ” was at its full height.
* * *
At latest a foolhardy individual had under-
taken to dive from the dome of Westminster Aquarium
into six feet of water below. As a precaution against
accident, his ability to do the trick was to be privately
•i tested” foot by foot after Uie first fifty.
* * *
Gr. R. Sims, a recognised champion of dogs, is
now claiming a high class of intelligence for horses. But
Fillis Prof. Sample, and all the horse-trainers who talk
f re ely about their business, agree in saying that the noble
animal is a much bigger fool than he seems. Perhaps the
uncertain comings and goings of circus hte prevent a
horse from making accurate measurements of time and
cultivating the bump of locality.
# # *
How the sculler has declined in popularity !
Lambert, of Svdney, whom alone Bubear, English cham-
pion, bars in his challenge to the world, can’t raise enough
money to follow Stanbury to America,
» * *
Railing on hard boards is the cause of many
boxing fatalities. To obviate.this danger an experiment
is hein" made in Melbourne by laying over the ring
smooth cork covered with tightly-stretched canvas.
# * *
Peter Jackson’s “ successful acting” reminds us
that when, a few years ago, Larry Foley, as Charles the
Wrestler, went down before Darapier in As You Like
It ” the "allery gods, ignorant of Shakespeare, thought
the show a “schlenter,” and demanded their money back.
« * *
Why has boxing prospered in America ? Because
they will have nothing to do with a beaten man. Con-
sequently, no man caves to go down purposely without
bein" paid a fabulous sum. This also explains the
reluctance of champions to enter into a real contest. In
America, more than in any other land, success is wor-
shipped. The States is a bitter country for failure.
# * *
Bowmont, by St. Albans from Pardon, was
deservedly awarded the prize as champion blood stallion
at the N.S.W. Agricultural Show.
• * *
Mr. Bartlett’s Maid of Munster, by Mungo
Park was voted the best trolling mare. Grand mare as
the Maid undoubtedly is, she has more the appearance of
a roadster, and is certainly not the ideal stamp of a trot-
ting-bred mare.
# * *
However, no mistake was made when the blue
ribbon was attached to Red Wind, as trotting stallion,
and Mr. Frank Hill’s imported Ariel. They were both
“ made to order ” for their respective classes.
* * *
The high jump was won by Castlebar with a
leap of sft. Sin. Spondulix, who has a record of 6ft.
9jin., was in this event, but he jumped unkindly. Castle-
bar was bred at Unanderra, is by Lord Castlebar, and has
an unbroken list of wins at the high jump.
# * *
Shannon, the fine-looking, iron-grey gelding, by
Confidence, won Tattersall’s Hunter's Plate, faultlessly
taking his six jumps at first time of asking.
# * *
Reported that the English Cricket Association
refused to grant its patronage to an Australian Eleven
unless a certain name was left out. We could name him
in one try. „
* * *
What lias become of the Melbourne Golf Club?
It started some three years ago with all the prominent
men on its members’ roll—ih fact, the list read just like
the provisional directorate of a land-bank, and a playing-
ground, consisting of several paddocks and swamps
pegged out into sixteen-feet allotments, was kindly
lent” the club by Matthew Davies. Golf is a game
resembling shinty with the fun left out, and requires
several miles of space and a helot to hump the imple-
ments of amusement. It is unlikely to catch on with the
young Australian, who prefers a game in which he can
lay-out a personal enemy or sloush an umpire.
' Corbett and Mitchell are to fight at New York
for £BOOO. It will not be a hippodrome. No one on
earth would trust Mitchell.
• • •
Sam. Hordern’s Sydney Cup win with Realm is
a bit of the luck belonging to the man of judgment*—the
one with plenty of money, and the sense to buy the best-
bred horses, and retain the services of the best men. Mr.
Hordern is apparently going to run his stabl i on the
James White principle.
* * *
Messrs, “Harry” Dawson and “Tom
Slattery, M.’sP. (N.S.W.) were travelling express to
Melbourne, not long since. In the same carriage was a
Hebraic-looking gentleman, who, noticing their, flash their
Parliamentary passes to the guard, coolly pulled out a
gold coin attached to his watch-chain each time the official
came round. When they got to Albury the gentleman
from Jerusalem pulled Minister Slattery on one side, and
in a mysterious whisper enquired: “ Say, old pal, will
this schlinter work all right on the Victorian lines.
Harry Dawson says that about the first man he saw upon
Flemington course was their fellow-traveller with a gin-
case and three cards, inviting a crowd of yokels to find
the Lady Queen. # #
On a recent Sunday there entered a N.S.W.
country township this procession—two well-clad poten-
tates in a buggy, a freshly-shot turkey depending from
the hack, and a mounted policeman, who rode behind.
The natural inference was that the policeman vyas on the
trail of some sinner who had been turkey-potting on the
Sawbath. Not so. One of the potentates was a Judge,
who was to open the local Quarter Sessions next flay ; and
the policeman humbly carried the turkey into his Honor 8
hotel.
# * #
Dear Bulletin, —The term “barrack” is evi-
dently derived from the Hebrew word “barak, meaning
<l to bless.” When the football ban-acker lulls his caco-
phonous beliowings, the Amalekites of the other side
prevail.—Yours, Sneak.
* * *
Recent Riverina turf event, as per programme :
“The Off to the Next Shed Race, lOeovs.; 2nd horse to
receive Isov.; horses to be nominated and ridden by union
shearers: each coni pel it or to lido one horse and lead a
pack-horse, equipped for the road, with blanket, quart-
pot, and hobbles ; once round the course ; list. up.
* * *
Sam Matthews, proprietor of the Sydney
'California Athletic Club, savs he has witnessed 800 fights
to a finish in N.S.W. within ihe last two years.
The Euoalyute Lozenges for colds, made by
■Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Charles Lilley is keeping himself aloof
from Queensland political parties, and playing a
lone hand for a while. In a word, he won’t be
leader until he Sees a team to lead.
The ‘‘lady friend” of a well-known
cricketer, now on his voyage ’Ome, boarded the
boat at Adelaide, just as he was congratulating
himself on having left her safely behind. How
lively she will make things on the voyage for her
erstwhile devoted one and his party !
Apropos of N.S. VV. Premier Dibbs’ insol-
vency, resignation of his Parliamentary seat, and
re-election, it is contended by some that a M.P.
who “ becomes ” bankrupt remains as a “ become”
bankrupt until he obtains his certificate of dis-
charge, and that, under the 26th section of the
local Constitution Act, he cannot validly sit asa
member until he does obtain such certificate. The
recent electioneering manoeuvres of lately-bank-
rupt J. L. Dow, in the Kara Kara electorate
"IVic.), may be considered as applicable to this
argument.
“ Glimpses of the World,” a portfolio of
photographs issued in Australia by the Oceanic
Publishing Co. of Sydney, is a publication so
honestly worth the modest price demanded for it*
that it must everywhere command enthusiastic
praise. In this album, for the first time, Ihe
Bulletin sees the perfection of photography
wedded to the very apotheosis of printing. In it
are vividly illustrated the world’s masterpieces of
architecture and art, and the most celebrated
historical and other scenes of natural beauty. On
artistic and educational grounds, this unique
publication should be in every house which can
afford it.
EVERY NOTABLE EVENT
Notches itself in the calendar of time. The
origination of Wolfe’s Schnapps signalised an
epoch, and will live as long as man exists.


IDEAL
The NEW MODEL “ HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS: Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type Instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 42 styles of Type,
|3T" LIGHT. COMPACT. V%T PORTABLE. jar* DURABLE.
Ti e greatest success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars on the Mimeograph or Cyclostile, on account of no Backing, no Folding, no Cracks, and no Varnish, as by otha
Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
33. 18. THOMAS. Australasian Agent, Victoria Arcade. SYDNEY ; and 101 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR
A soothing, cooling, emollient milk for the
skin. It prevents and. removes freckles, tan,
sunburn, redness and roughness of the skin,
soothes and heals stings of insects, eczema,
prickly heat, and all irritations, produces soft
fair skin and a lovely delicate complexion. It
is warranted free from any lead or mineral
ingredients, and is perfectly harmless to the most
delicate skin. Bottles 2s. 3d. and 4s, 6d. Ask for
Rowlands’ Kaltdob, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is a pure and
scientifically prepared tooth powder j it whitens
the teeth, prevents decay and sweetens the
breath.
I H E:
i
N
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the LABOUR
you can produce more polish with TWO Packets
of the “RISING SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
B
mumMMmmrn
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria:
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and .ISelbnnme.
&
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIRa^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
J Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay &, Co., New York.
df
Reuter’S Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
• , enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profess-
'oa. The smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a phial.
JI Perfect Food
&
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
sd
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For travellers.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quicklj
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
—Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
In England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Halted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :—
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
fs
ft
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the now list of
BROOMESWUSIC
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. M. nnoowr, I"-, H’olborn, London, Eng.
PILLS. —For Nervousness, Weak-
Fj ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseuxs, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Flectric Pills are the most speedy and moat power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad aftereffects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. Gd., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, G 8 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
V *
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Ollulnr Cloth
I3ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab'c.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Ordeis ly
Po«t, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM Sc MUTCH,
To Kino St., SYDNEY.
ENERGY, AMBITION,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
May be secured by all who fallow (he example
of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. z6a 15th
St., Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A.
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
READ THIS STATEMENT;
“ Every spring for years I have had intolerable
headaches , and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and pain. My
druggist bad known me from childhood and
advised me to take, early in the rpring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I commenced using it in March, and
have not had, since (hen, the first symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, andlperform
my da ly duties with a cheerfulness ana energy
(hat su: prises myself. I take p’on sure in tell ng
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use.”— Lizzie W.
Db Veau, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Ayer’s SarsaparilSa
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
Cheerfulness, Strength,
and Perfect Health,
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSES
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
KRUSE’S
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
FLUID
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS'S
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
YRAST
YEAST
YEAST
YEAST
YEAST
YEAST
YEAST
YEAST
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Summer Months.
K HIISE’S INSECTICIDE Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Preserves Furs from
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Cleanses
Domestic Pets
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE of Parasites.
DEAF
'NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Teck't InrUiuta I uoular Ur Cuthiuut,
Whlapm heard. Baoceaiiful when ail
rainedl«m fail. Writ* (or book o( proola
A.M. NASI,
49 Elizabeth Street,
litiiounNi,
FREE.
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers oi
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and ia
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
(ISO «£ (l.S'd George Street, Sydney.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES.
I3r. Alexr. Paterson,
'lOl Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily Lorn 3 to 6 p.m.
CARTER & C°?
pUAIi'TABLE
(fiON - REVERSIBLE 1
THIS Ingeniously Constructed HU I.IAKU IUMNiO
T i lil.ll is acknowledged th ■ most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination evet
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billia'.ds have no equal, combin-
inggen tie exercise with an eb gantand scientific recreation.
The PRICES--SSS to <iu neas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
IST o Cure, 3ST o
fr
m
\\
electro
b ?lt
I
M 11 iS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which wil’
1 cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives asteadj
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer throng!
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a writter
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the ful
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and dc
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you shoulc
call and examine (hem, or send for our ELECTRIC ERil
and price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, (id Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY,
US E
V
Vr
Si
T
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S !"
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dorn that. make mo love.’*
£49,460 worth for £l,
See Amusement
Column
Ode to Austialia.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
O, princess, arise from thy slumber! look down on thy
world-girdling seas,
On hills where thy herds have no number, take arms for
the pride of all these ;
The sapphire sweep of wide water that circles thee round
with its might,
Thy days never sadder nor shorter than summer and
summer’s delight,
Thy long golden hours that mellow the fruit on thy fig-
trees and vines
Till the grass of thy pastures grows yellow as the treasure
of ore in thy mines ;
Earth’s veins that are running with riches deep down from
the sight of the sun,
The thousands that toil in thy ditches to mock, to elude,
to outrun;
Take arms for thy pastures unbounded that wait for the
husbandman’s toil,
For thy kingdom by heroes once founded who banished
the slaves of the soil;
Take arms for the land once polluted with toil that was
bitter as death,
With poisonous weeds now uprooted that leave yet a
taint of their breath ;
Who knoweth the wealth in thy fastness of mountain and
river and creek!
Oh, awful in wonder and vastness ! Shall we preach to
thee, we who are weak?
We live but a day of thine ages, whose land in its infancy
lies
With a history all blank in its pages, in the lap of the
seas and the skies ;
Could we sleep, and in centuries waken, and view thee
the youngest of lands,
The world wuth the noise of thee shaken, the fruits of the
years in thy hands,
Thy foot on the neck of Oppression, and Science thy
sceptre of sway,
When the thoughts of thee find their expression, the
fumes of thy sleep roll away,
Could we see thee then—ah, could we know thee, we, ser-
vants and children of thine,
Who pour forth our hearts’ blood to show thee, that thou
shouldst be drunk as with wine ;
Could we see the fair fruit of our labours, that others long
years hence shall see.
When with music of pipes and of tabors kings seek thee
from over the sea,
And offer thee richness of spices, and clothe thee with
purple and gold,
And the fame of thy glorious devices in the sight of all
lands is unrolled ;
Thy banner raised high in defiance, blood-red from the
patriot’s heart,
The electrical lode-star of Science, the beauty and passion
of Art!
Ah, rouse thee, thou passionless Peri! thy des iny rolls
beyond sight,
Beyond hearing of us who are weary, and sleep in thy
star-woven night—
Ah, shake off the shadows of failure, the heights for thy
climbing are steep!
Take arms for thy glory, Australia, and sow that the ages
•nay reap!
NOKOMIS.
“Bridget, where did you get that black
eye?” “Please’m, my cousin get it timme, m’m,
but what will the payple say to me having an oye
like that, and no husband?”
In a “full” House of Commons 200 of
the sitting members have to stand —on one leg or
otherwise. The members who can’t find seats
have a natural tendency to be agin’ the Govern-
ment.
Boston (U.S.A.) Globe thieves “ The
Baldheaded Metamorphosis,” originally written
by “ The Dipsomaniac ” for The Bulletin, excises
portions in order to crowd it into less space, and
publishes the mutilation under the heading,
“ Dastardly Handiwork’’—which it perhaps was.
Then Snap-Shots,” one of the English pro-
fessional pirates, professing to be honest for the
nonce, republishes the disfigurement and credits it
to Boston Globe. The Bulletin is copyright, in
Australia anyhow, and may one day suddenly give
a heap of trouble t<> the British pirate rags. By the
way, Manchester Clarion, a paper which has
managed to get quite a reputation in England, is
usually pretty well loaded with unacknowledged
Bulletin matter.
“Jock” Baird, father of the recently-
deceased “ Abington ” Baird, though a self-made
man, was very ignorant; and like most ignorant
men, fond of boasting on the slightest provoca-
tion. He once, it is related, met at a Glasgow
pub., a kindred spirit, in a once well-known cock-
fighter and horse-racer, one “Jimmy” Murray;
and they began arguing as to which of them knew
the most on some subject. “What do ye ken
aboot it,” sneered Baird. “ Why, I bet ye .£5 ye
canna say the Lord’s prayer.” “Done!” said
Murray, as he planked down the money. Then he
chanted : “The Lord’s my shepherd, I’ll not
want; He makes me down to lie; in pastures
green He leadeth me, the quiet waters by,” (23rd
Psalm). “ Aye, mon ! but I didna think
ye could say it; and ye say it weel,” said
Baird, as the money was handed over. It is said
that it was “Jock ” Baird who, being desirous of
possessing a library, called on a Glasgow publisher
to give the order, and when asked if he would
have them bound in calf or morocco, exclaimed :
“Guid God! can they no be done in Glasca ?”
When the old man was dying he sent for a clergy-
man and asked him if he thought it would do him
any good in the next world if he left something to
the church, “ Weel,” answered the canny sky-
?ilot, “ it’s worth tryin’. It could do nae harm.”
ifith the result that Jock Baird left .£250,000 to
the Kirk, which fund now bears his name. Good
old chestnuts! By the way, “Abington ” was
christened either William or Robert. He assumed
the name of “ Abington ’’when he took to horse-
racing, because, he said, it sounded better.


“August
Flower”
Mr. Lorenzo F. Sleeper is very*
well known to the citizens of Apple*
ton, Me., and neighborhood. Hd
says: ‘ ‘ Eight years ago I was taken
“ sick, and suffered as no one but a
“ dyspeptic can, I then began tak*
“ ing August Flower. At that time
“ I was a great sufferer. Every-*
“ thing I ate distressed me so that I
“had to throw it up. Then in ai
“ few moments that horrid distress
“ would come on and I would have
For that
Horrid
Stomach
Feeling.
‘ ‘ to eat and suffeg
“again. I took a*
1 ‘ little of your med*!|
‘ ‘ icine, and felt niuci*
“better, and afteji
“ taking a little more
‘ ‘ August Flower my
“Dyspepsia disap** ;
“peared, and since that time l|
“ have never had the first sign of it,]
‘‘lean eat anything without
“least fear of distress. I wish all
“that are afflicted with that terrible
“ disease or the troubles caused by)
“it would try August Flower, as 1
“ am satisfied there is no medicine
“equal to it.” ®
Established 1876.
ASTHMA
CURE
1 write Fob
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON
\STHMAjj
Q-
dfs
'MelbouMel
Rocke.ToinpsiUir(°.
“SYDNEY: GllOtt BfQS
, Brisbane: Elliott Burnt?
"“AdelaTde_ FH.Fauldinj * (?
'mai HcjaaJfc SharlaniM!
a C°. -3*5).
yjtilstad Treatise aac/Tatimonialsl
<C?^ RY
&
*■o.
yy
o.
>\
%<P
from
every flower tliat
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
Iloxotis opoponax
L\FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
stre^
Bewareofimitations. The genuine is signed,
TRADE MARK;- MUSK DEER. r
df
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REACTS PATENT
INVICORAJeb
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says “ 1 think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kei.ly L.R.C.P., Edin., says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving, the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the iuiurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist on
, having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Olaremont, Hastings, England,
Why Suffer One Moment
From Torturing Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
rest and sleep, speedily heals the
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifier, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cure every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
All about thb Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustra-
tions, and 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap , 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, si, Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U.S.A.
pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and
oily skin and hand., are prevented and
cured by that greatest of all Skin
Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other
skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of
toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive 0/ inflammation
and clogging of the pores, the cause of most complexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY.
Bad Complexions,
Cleavers
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£6O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHETM, GOTTHELF &CO •• - •• “ BYDXEY -
DR REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F. 0.8.
Plum
s
Plum
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever beenloffeied to the pul
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell, set leady for and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
j Single Razor, in strong leather
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle,
case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, oOs.
Registered and sent Post Free to anti of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, U. extra
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Russian
Brand.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
df
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
c>
sd
BUTTER-SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN’S SWEET)
Lancet. A
St. John’s Works, London, W.O,
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
i £49,460 worth, for £l.
See Amusement
Column.
ASK fou
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HEU MAJESTY the QUEEN.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney,
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
I (ss. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK,
An American on Federation.
Dear Bulletin, — In common, I presume,
with many other Americans, 1 am frequently
asked if the United States would not rush to the
assistance of England if that small but aggressive
island were threatened with national extinction
by her long-suffering neighbours ? The manner of
putting the query invariably implies the answer
expected—an answer I am not prepared to make.
Disguise it as diplomats and politicians may,
England has no love for the United States, and
Uncle Sam is not slow to recognise this fact.
Americans are not likely to forget the attitude of
England during the great War of Secession, when
the very existence of the Republic hung in the
balance. At that time the “respectable” and
“influential ” classes in England openly expressed
their sympathy with the rebels, and put that sym-
pathy into practice whenever they could do so
with apparent secrecy and safety. Every battle-
field held by the Northern troops, every Southern
stronghold carried by them, bore silent testimony
to the treachery of England in captured muni-
tions of war : cannon cast in English foundries,
rifles from English workshops, swords and
bayonets bearing the brand of Sheffield makers, all
gave the lie to the neutrality expressed by the
English Government. The sham character of
this neutrality was exposed when it became
known that the Alabama had escaped from an
English dockyard with the direct connivance of a
.Cabinet Minister. Neither have Americans for-
gotten that Gladstone enthusiastically hailed
Jefferson Davis as the “founder of a new nation.”
When, during the struggle, Henry Ward Beecher
visited England, with the avowed object of placing
the cause of the North in its proper light before
the people of that country, press, pulpit and plat-
form combined to cover him with contumely and
abuse, while no expedient was deemed too low or
brutal, if only it promised to deprive him of a
hearing.
# m •
The present policy of the United States,
founded as it is on the political history of the
country, is entirely opposed to any interference
in foreign quarrels, on any pretence whatever,
and no Administration would be tolerated that
presumed to reverse this policy. Not only can
there be no possible sympathy between a republic
and a monarchy, no matter how “constitutional”
that monarchy may be, but the people of the
United States have long ceased to be English,
or even Anglo-American. The “aristocracy”
of New York and Philadelphia are of , Dutch
lineage, that of New Orleans claims a French
ancestry, 40 per cent, of the population of
Chicago is German, or of German origin, while
the great States of the North-west —Wisconsin,
Minnesota and the Dakotas —owe their rapid de-
velopment to the peaceful invasion of thousands
of the hardy peasantry of Germany and Scandi-
navia. The four hundred Anglomaniacs who are
supposed to constitute the elitdol American society
are of no consequence whatever; they have no
sympathy with American aspirations, and do not
exert the slightest influence on American thought.
Should they all, by a happy accident,"be sunk in
the middle of the Atlantic, while on their annual
exodus to Europe, they “never would be missed.”
* # •
The everlasting cant about the federation
of the English-speaking peoples of the world is
very tiresome, and about as sensible as would be
a proposal that the porridge eating or whisky-
drinking nations of the earth . should federate.
The people of the United Slates speak English,
or their version of English, simply because
they recognise the convenience of one uni-
form tongue for business- and other pur-
poses, and have up till now been too busy
to consider the expediency of any radical change
in the speech that has come down to them from
colonial days. That they do not regard the
English language as specially sacred is shown by
die liberties they take with its orthography and
irthoepy, while Jefferson took the earliest oppor-
tunity of substituting a rational decimal coinage
for the absurd but venerable usage of pounds,
shillings, and pence.
# * #
But such a federation, we are told, would
have power to dictate peace to the rest of the
world. Where, would be the advantage? England
does not want peace except at her own price, while
the United States would certainly not regard an
European war as an unmixed evil. The imme-
diate prospect of such a war would mean big
orders for all kinds of munitions and supplies,
with consequent increased employment and better
pay for a vast number of American artisans;
while a prolonged struggle would raise the price
of wheat and pork and thus benefit American
farmers and hog-raisers. So far as the squabbles
of England and Europe are concerned, Uncle Sam
will never be other than a spectator; an interested
spectator, ho frankly admits, if perchance any
profit may thereby accrue to him. Neither does
he court any alliances beyond the sea. He simply
hasn’t got to.
Maorilancl.
JASON.
When the amorous male spider advances
towards the female, twice his size, she either
embraces or cats him—not both, like women.
Melbourne Argus having reduced its price
to one penny. S.M. Herald (twopence) is now
about the only daily paper on the Australian
mainland published at over a penny.
A young lady has bequeathed to Camille
Flarnmarion, the French astronomer, the skin of
her back, with the request that ho will have one
of Ins books bound with it as a memento.
“ Terrible the horrors that exist in the
insect world. Can we imagine the terror of a fly,
with its highly sensitive organisation, and micro-
scopic eyes, entangled in the web of a spider with
all its horrible appearance and repulsive form,
ordained to destroy it. or the sufferings of an
insect pierced by the frhvcumon, and in whose
body an egg is laid, soon to be hatched, and on
which the young will feed day by day until the
victim dies of exhaustion; what extravagant mind
has ever created an imaginary internal flame worse
than this ?”
Says Adelaide : —
Gippsland is the garden of Australia, but it is a ghastly
sight none the less, because of the land-monopoly which
has been allowed to eat the heart out of Victoria under
the regime of Munro, Davies, Beni, and their class. When
one sees a little clearing of a couple of acres somewhere
amid the vast forests of grabbed land, and sees trees three
or four years old loaded to the ground with fruit, the
traveller’wonders why the cultivator should go to Mildura
or Renmark to grow by costly irrigation what here springs
naturally from the fertile, well-watered earth. On the
borders of the northern deserts, in the hideous, mirage-
bounded plains of the Riverina, the “ cookies” are wast-
ing their energies in an effort to grow wheat, and the un-
employed are travelling the streets of the capitalSj while
in Gippsland, and, for that matter, in every province of
Australia, are thousands of the iiipst fertile acres, with a
bounteous rainfall, shut against the toiler—but surely not
for ever?—fly the fat man in the White waistcoat.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.


In vino veritas. The truth in wines is umc
Innes’ Boar’s Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for parity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar’s Head
brand comprises wines of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, muscats, hocks, and others too
umerous to specify.
Thc equitable
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS A HOVE ALL OTHERS!
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. £167,686,386
New Business, 1891 48 509,.‘119
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,450,871
Apply for “TON Tl N E TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens of Actual Results.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society’s perma-
nent building)
Junction of Hunter, Pitt & O’Connell Streets.
JOHN FINNIE ALLAN, or anyone knowing
his whereabouts or movements since 1889,
is requested to communicate with the Under-
signed. Was at Peak Hill in 1889. Last heard
of in Sydney, November, 1889.
W. S. FORBES,
Manager Scottish Union ami National
Insurance Company,
93 Put Street, Sydney.
GIVEN AWAY
Under the conditions given as follows in tne wordi.-“ ROTI CA.VI are contained letters,
which when properly arranged, forms the name of one of the best known Sovereigns of a European
Nation, the same also being the name of a British Colony. To the first person sending in the correct name
en or before April 26th. 1893, we will give £lO in cash; to the second sending in the correct name £B,
to the third £3; to the fourth £2; to the next five persons £1 to each. To the last person sending in the
correct nama we will pay £6: to the second last £4; to the third last. £2 ; to the fourth last £l, audio
Tv r . _ ~ W I \ Wrlfa riaf« ami fimA nf flftV nOAtillff VOUr letter.
10. we will pay £6: to the second last. ; w tae uuru .uu.ou w
the next 60 odrions (if there are so many) 6s. to each. Write date and time of day before posting your letter.
answer* send Fifteen Penny Stamp* for a box of Star Antlblllous Pills the best Stomach
♦ LiVer Bowel and Kidney Regulator ever used. They are made from barks, roots and herbs sugar coated,
..-s. x.i—*. xrrt nncmr win VtA mnnrdpd unless nil Is are ordered as these cash
LiVer. Bowel and Kidney ttegmator ever usea. ruey mwio uum ..w ,
act i/cntly vet promptly, without griping. No answer will be recorded unless pills are ordered as these cash
presents are given simply to help introduce our wonderful medicine. Immediately after April 2(!lh,a list of
names and addresses of the successful persons will be mailed to each person answering this advertisement
Satisfaction guaranteed or money will be refunded. As to our responsibility we refer to any Bank or law
business firm in Melbourne This -
THB NATIONAL DRUO OOMPANT. RUSSELL ST. MELBOURNE.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
f
iU
ife-
TRADE r/ARK
IST The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
BKOMIIITh
A.'ID
Influenza.
It can new be had of all
Chemists* in Is. and 2a
bottles-.
Sole Proprietor:
\ H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Dity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers. Limited
FOR COLDS,
COUCHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-ready remedy to he
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
jjjgp” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
Is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
More Australian Testimony.
THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS.
Mr. J. B, Warbrick, or “Joe Warbriek,” as lie
is familiarly known, was captain of the New
Zealand Native Football Team (better known as
“The Maoris’’), which visited the Old Country
and gave such a good account of itself during the
season there of 1888-8!). This team firmly believed
that St. Jacobs Oil is one of the secrets of success
in football, and kept itself in prime condition by a
free use of it. The team was so unanimous in its
verdict that the matter is worthy of special men
tion. Mr. Warbrick, in conversation with one of
the representatives of the Ohas. A. \ ogeler Co.,
in Sydney, after their return, stated : “ I have
much pleasure in testifying to the efficacy of St.
Jacobs Oil. I have used it constantly since my
first visit to New South Wales in 1884, having
then injured my knee in our first match ; and dur-
ing our tour in Grcsxt Britain wo have used noth-
ing else, and the New Zealand Native Football
Team all speak in the highest terms of its
qualities. In fact, so much did we think of it
that we hardly ever travelled without a case
of it.’’
AN ENDORSEMENT.
Mr. J, R. Scott, the successful proprietor of the
leading hotel in Gisborne, N.Z.—the Masonic
Hotel—and the able manager of the above-men-
tioned New Zealand football team on their tour
through Great Britain, endorses the above by
letter, in which he states ; “ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the wonderful properties of St.
Jacobs Oil. While there (Great Britain) I got for
the team’s use nearly a dozen different embroca-
tions, but none seemed to do the men the same
amount of good as St. Jacobs Oil. In fact, we
never considered our baggage complete without a
case of it.”
the waterbury watches
have established for themselves an unrivalled
reputation as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and
INEXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
Bute
to Scot
Whisky
rtscoW-
I>RINK
‘mi
simir
Whisky.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
68 Margaret St.,
fclllNEY.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
sth April, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Alice Lethbridge wore a new frock in “ Esmer-
alda ” revival at Sydney Lyceum —a pale-pink
silk concertina kink, very quaintly trimmed with
emerald-green velvet. Addie Conyers seemed to
fit the clothes of her who went before, and Leila
Roze, as Phoebus, scarcely got as much twinkle
out of those rose-pink tights as is certainly con-
cealed in them. I didn’t fancy the silver knee-
pads on the military chorus—it looked (in horse
language) as if they had all been down.
There was a crowded circle. A holiday feature
of the house was hats. One man sat with a tall
hat on; a lady appeared in a bonnet; another held
a bower-pot topping-off in her warm right hand.
How jealously a large section of humanity guards
its hat ! I once heard of a very wealthy Sydney
potentate who made his poor wife nurse his silk
hat right through a ball because he “ didn’t put
no confidence in them attendants.”
There was rather a light gallery on Saturday*
and it was a revelation to see the popular favourite
who usually goes and comes to an accompaniment
of yells getting off and on in comparative silence,
and singing only a couple of verses of a mirthful
lay which telescopes out into 14 under more genial
circumstances. Verily, there is only one Gaiety
Co. and the Gallery is its prophet.
N.S.W. Agricultural Society’s annual show,
which ran a week, was opened by Lieut.-Governor
Darley. The absence of fulsome flattery reduces
a Lieut.-Governor’s performance on.such occasions
to a mere distinct enunciation of plain and fancy
statistics, since the “prophet is in his own
country.” Mrs. Darley wore black merveilleux
trimmed with grey and black satin embroidery; a
black lace visite and a black bonnet with a crown
of spring-green silk, and carried a lovely hand-
bouquet of orchids, presented by Mr. J. T.
Wilshiro.
Other ladies on the dais (very charmingly got
up with a floral border) were Mrs. Bowden-Smith,
in shot-black and copper silk, with a _ copper
design, and trimmed with black moire, pink silk
and black lace —black bonnet with a pale-pink
feather; Miss Bowden-Smith, in yellow crepon
with black velvet bands, and wide black hat,
trimmed with rainbow ribbon; the Misses Darley,
in shades of pink ; Mrs. John See, in striped sage
green, Terry velvet; Miss Burdett-Smith, in black
cloth trimmed with jet, black hat and feathers.
Everybody cheered the Acting-Governor when
cheers were called for. A wise crowd always
cheers a judge. It sounds as if none of them had
ever been hanged, and so on. After the opening
ceremonies came the banquet, for sfentlemen only
—the Society providing an airy snack for the
ladies, who, of course, invariably prefer tea to
champagne.
I here remember a remark made by a
Sydney philosopher in a discussion over wifely
good qualities. According to him, no sensible
man ever pines for beauty and riches if
combined with a wakeful disposition. In a word,
the supreme wifely virtue, when all has been
estimated, is sleepfulness. The spouse who is
dead to the world, dreaming of new millinery with
her mouth wide open when the old man returns at
2 a.m., is the only real connubial success.
The soft music played by the Blind Asylum
band was a great improvement on the usually
brassy blast of the musician, who can actually see
his victims conversing in signs, and increases the
noise accordingly. The show all through was a
very horsey affair, and founded, as usual, on a
bedrock of hurdle and water-jumpingcompetitions.
One of the three graceful and clever equestriennes
wore a smart snuff-colored suit and rather fussy
hat to match ; the ensemble reminded one of the
dust-coloured Mounted Infantry uniform, and
looked as if it would be particularly serviceable
in a brick fielder. There were but three tandems,
despite the tandem club said to exist at Strath-
field, and only one four-in-hand—a beautifully-
appointed coach and team of bays, belonging to
Mr, S. Hordern—turned up to claim Mr. Terry s
prize. Indeed, things were rather dull vehicularly.
On opening dav, none of the club coaches did
the circuit, and, judging by numbers, sulkies are
the traps of the future. They appeared in peneot
clouds.
, Apropos lady-riders. During the judging at a
South Coast show the other day, a committeeman
remarked to “Jim”—the sole judge and an
identity of the district—“ This whip is for the
girl who wins first prize, Jim.” “But, bless my
life ” said the Mayor, who seemed to have a sneak-
ing’ idea (founded firmly on precedent) that the
best-looking girl must necessarily get the prize for
equitation, “she’s a grandmother ! Well,
retorted Jim. “ sh e ought to know how to ride by
this time, anyhow,”
At the A.J.C.’s meeting, which opened on
Easter Saturday, there was decidedly too much
black People never put forth their crisp attire
until Easter Monday, which gives the word “go”
to all the new frocks. On Saturday Mrs .W.
Mitchell sported one of the new full short
“ granny ” skirts in black silk trimmed with hoops
of black fluffy stuff and made with gigot sleeves of
green velvet—wide black hat trimmed with black
feathers and a bunch of violets pushed in at the
back Mrs. Burdekin wore the artistic gown and
hat in which she farewelled Lady Jersev-effac-
tively adding a mauve orchid } Miss Burdekin
rather effaced herself in black with coral feathers
in her hat; Mrs. Pilcher had a black silk dress
made with Russian epaulette sleeves split over green
ailk —small black hat; Miss Pilcher looked fresh
in a white Russian blouse costume; Mrs. Gordon
wore fawn trimmed with shades of green velvet;
her sister, Miss Nellie Hill, wore a military-look-
ing palet6t of invisible blue cloth over a black-
striped silk skirt —spikey little hat; Mrs, J. W.
Flood sported strawberry woollen trimmed with
black velvet; and a millionaire’s wife sat and
shivered in a thin white silk.
Sydney Cap dressing at Randwick on Easter
Monday seemed to indicate that everything is
worn but umbrella skirts, and that a great deal
more depends upon what is in the dress than the
make of the garment itself. I only saw one model
of the modified 1830 toilet, but as the wearer
hadn’t carried it out to the coal-scuttle bonnet, I
had to disqualify her as a harmonious whole. For
the benefit of the uninitiated, let me say that the
upper idea of the 1830 is obviously borrowed from
a kite, and the lower from a tar-barrel with a reef
or two let out behind, and that I don’t think it
will be tremendously popular for artistic reasons.
I didn’t see any crinoline. Mrs. Willie Mitchell
went closest to the fatal hen-coop in a voluminous
skirt that swayed suspiciously like hoops, but I
liked her long coat with triple cape of black
velvet. Mrs. Rupert Clarke looked rather after-
date in a Russian blouse turn-out of dark-blue
figured in white and trimmed with white braid,
wide black hat and feathers. A Melbourne girl
did the lawn in immense black-and-white checks.
And, apropos Melbourne folks, a visitor from over
the border said she couldn’t help remarking how
pleased and happy the crowd looked compared
with the depressed visages which have been turn-
ing out lately to make a Victorian holiday.
It is evident that violent, “ vulgar ” colours —
colours that have for a long time been left to
Chinese lanterns and cheap wall-paper—mean to
be in evidence this season. One lady of obviously
correct style was in violet cap-a-pie, as if she had
been dipped in violet ink ; another had trimmed
a purple dress with pea-green, and produced the
effect of a neutral-tinted person seen through
stained glass. The Admiral’s wife and daughter
were soberly arrayed. Miss Fosbery wore a dull
mulberry epingle with yoke and big sleeves of
black velvet—little hat to match; Miss M‘Donagh
sported seal-brown and blue epingle, trimmed
with pale-pink silk and brown velvet, beef-eater
hat, trimmed with magenta; Miss Nellie Hill
wore an attractive combination of gold and brown
checks; Miss Myra Kemble was muffled up in a
“ Home’’-made coat of black cloth, trimmed with
gold—small felt hat trimmed with velvet and
tartan. There wasn’t an enormous attendance on
the members’ stand, but an Easter Monday crowd
surged in other portions of the course.
At Her Majesty’s, on Good Friday night, Mr.
Rignold and Mr. Huenerbein got up the most
picturesquely-staged concert on record. The stage
was lit with a dim religious light, and the white-
robed chorus (why did they put all the old grand-
mothers in the front row ?) grouped against Brutus’
tent-curtains formed a very devout mise-en-sclne,
except that one choristeresse bobbed up and
down as one who bathes without wanting to get
wet, and waved a blue-and-white fire-screen to
admiring friends in front. There was an over-
flowing circle, mostly “snipped ” and unbonneted,
although it is “orthodox ” to regard Bun Day as
more sacred than Sunday, and 1 don’t suppose any
of these women would dream of going to church in
an over-ventilated bedioe and a flower in her
hair. Also, there was plenty of applause. I
merely mention the V-shaped clothes and the
clapping to show what small hold old-world eti-
quette for sacred occasions has on Sydney.
Rossini’s “Stabat Mater” was the leading
feature on the bill, and Lilian Tree made her
as first soprano. Miss Tree has emerged
from the retirement of matrimony with her fluffy
hair no longer golden, and much more dress up
above than she was won’t to average in “Martha;”
also her conversational soprano was not so evenly
pleasing as of yore, altho’ the concluding O in the
difficult “Inflammatus” rang very strong and
clear, and was redemanded by a delighted house.
The avidity with which the public come for more
shriek always makes me wonder why the steam-
piano isn’t more popular. Far away the most reve-
rent singer on the stage was “ Daddy ” Hallewell,
who sang in true oratorio style. Mr. Wa[she and
Mrs. Riley were in average form, though not
sufficiently contrite spirits for the Tribulation
music, but Signor Hazon shook his stick at the
crowded stage with highly satisfactory results.
Miscellaneous sacred items concluded the rose-
pink bill.
Mr. Burdekin spoilt the outward aspect of his
annual picnic to the Liedertafel on Ist April by
good-naturedly allowing the heterogeneous mob to
affix mouldy second-class carriages to the two
special cars which conveyed his guests to Peat’s
Ferry, which gave the special a very snuffy
aspect. I hear (it was a gentleraen-only affair)
that Mr. B. entertained the warblers in his usual
free-handed fashion, and except that a 7 a.m.
start was rather cruel, nothing occurred to make
the usual complimentary speeches sound like
s&rC(iBni<
A new society walk seems to have been develop-
ing during summer, which may be called the cork-
leg movement. The patient dots and carries one
in a modified kind of way, and I should say the
easiest means of getting at it would be to walk a
mile in one tight boot and a canoe. I merely
mention this latest society notion to warn sympa-
thetic people against pit-falls. An ignorant man
might imagine that the disciple of the new walk
was going tenderfooted, and suggest that she
should wear corn-plasters.
Which reminds me that one of the best-known
of Sydney’s theatrical treasurers has an infallible
specific for dodging head-colds in winter. It is
worth passing on, although I really don’t think it
will ever be violently popular. He simply puts a
couple of tablespoonfuls of rum into his boots in
preference to putting them where most people do,
and the effect is magical. The spirit dries up into
the soul—l mean sole —and warms the patient far
more effectually than by the Tosspot nu‘tlu»l
On dit that one of the latest Sydney society
engagements is off. Anybody who has had the
felicity of overhearing any of the numerous tiffs
of the happy affianced will receive the intelligence
with complacency. It isn’t a safe plan to try to
get all the rows over before marriage.
The observed of all observers at Randwick on
the first day was an obviously brand-new Johnny-
corae-lately, who strutted about the lawn in a
shooting-suit of brown tweed, with brown woollen
stockings, grey gaiters, and a sort of half-bred
Tam o’ Shanter which his solid head seemed to fill
out as you see a boiled dumpling fill its doth.
Friends at a distance will please accept this intim-
ation that he is well and happy, and treating the
little attempts at dress-occasions in the beastly
kwlinies with proper contempt bristling all over
him from the top of his head to his hobnailed
boots.
People’s ideas of what constitutes material pros-
perity differ tremendously. For instance, I over-
heard two people talking the other day, and one
said: “How’s Bill getting along?” “ Oh,
famously,” she replied ecstatically—“ splendidly !
He's bought a bicycle I "
A story comes from Adelaide about a jealous
tailor who suspected his wife so unreasonably that
she resolved to give him a lesson. As he entered
his room one evening he saw a tall and well-
dressed man looming through the gloom of the
apartment where his suspected wife was sleeping
with one eye open. With a rush the ninth part of
a man hurled the base deceiver with much force
against the wall. And then a silvery voice was
heard to say: “There you go! And our most
natural-looking dummy, too ! ”
The wisest women never go too unfledged to
social entertainments in the back country, because
the unsophisticated native isn’t broken in to it, for
one thing, and when it isn’t locally customary a
bold exposure is actually immodest, to ray way of
thinking. And sometimes women who persist in
“ peeling ” in a region guiltless of swallow-tail or
snip get rather rude experiences in return for their
sangfroid. There is a true story of one country
lady who went forth to a country concert in skirt
and shoulder-straps, and an intoxicated squatter
behind her tilted back his chair and put his two
feet on her snowy shoulders ! Of course, there
was a terrific row, and the squatter, brought to
earth with a crash, tipsily apologised ; “’Pon me
(hie) shoul, thought ’twas a (hie) pillow.” The
affair ended in the local court.
I have received an account of a “ surprise"
party ” in which the cold-blooded proceedings of
these vulgar gangs are exhibited in their full
horror. “The host,” I am told, “could not be
enticed away . . but the hostess was sent out
for about an hour ! ” Imagine the cool effrontery
of bursting into a man’s house and ordering him
and his wife out of it while you tear up their
carpets, invade their kitchen, and make hay among
their china ! The desperate man made a stand
and refused to leave his house —and I wish to
draw attention to him as a brilliant example for
others.
Slender women with understandings that aren’t
too “unfinished,” as the groom says (because a
gored skirt flopping round a pair of hop-poles is
no more alluring than a table-cloth blowing round
a clothes-prop), view the indications of crinoline
in the sartorial barometer with dumb despair, and
nobody wonders at the British anti-crinoline
league whose members take solemn oaths to come
out looking like whipping-posts rather than en-
courage bird-cages. I hope branches of the League
will flourish in Australia if the dreaded skirtal
balloon really comes to pass. An Australian
actresss, resident in Sydney, renowned for her
tasteful dressing, has given out that she will never
go on wires no matter if the whole world measures
12 yards round the hem; so, perhaps, we might
start a league straight off to discourage the dress-
makers ? It’s just as well to take the crinoline by
the wires, so to speak.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Letter received by a Maoriland resident
magistrate in re an undefended case, and handed
to plaintiff :
I am prevented by illness from attending to-day, as
ordered, and cannot send doctor’s certificate for the
sufficient reason that I am unable to pay tor a doctor or
his medicines ; nor can I send any of my family in my
place, as I have no one of sufficient age. 1 would certainly
like to pay the plaintiff had I the means, but I am afraid
that, should I be able to collect sufficient money, I should
first leave the town so as to be enabled to earn a living
for my family ; and as plaintiff's charges are such that he
can only expect one in every two customers to pay, I
have no doubt that if he finds by examining his books
that my share has been paid by some other customer, he
will return the £1 6s. I have already paid, as common
honesty would not permit him to hold it, and my need
compels me to press for prompt repayment. Kindly
suggest this to him. Being a comparative stranger here,
and it being possible that, if I am not carried off by
disease, I shall die of starvation, you might possibly be
able, from your more extensive knowledge of the town, to
direct me as to where—should I need it-1 could get a
cheap secondhand coffin, also where I could obtain the
money to pay for it.—Yours very respectfully, H. Gess
Hartb.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, £o.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne ; Ft’ iott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
"Crayfish"
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A little, Witty Individual, still in a subsi-
diary ‘department i of an Australian Government
.service, and who has .occupied many positions in
both official and private life, is known as “ Cray-
fish.” He earned tfie ' • ‘ t
Late evening-, a eAßmah was hailed by a
Well-dressed, dapper man, and ordered to drive to
ft suburban address. Arrived at the destination,
cabby found that his fare had no money.
“ Well—hie ! —I shposh you’d better take thish
inshtead,” said the dapper drunk, exhibiting £i
parcel.
“What is it?
“Crayfish,» , ... „ . >■
Cabby declined', p(iW after a barney, compro-
mised .by aCpepling his fare’s “office address”—
Vn A Government department, in which it so hap-
pened there was also another party of the same
name as the dapper fare—the namesake being of
most severely respectable reputation. Cabby kept
calling for his fare, and one day was duly turned
on to—the wrong man.
“You ain’t the man I want. Ain’t there no
other ‘MisterX.’?”
“Yes.”
“ Well, I expect he’s the cove X want. At any
rate, it’s the man with the crayfish as I want ”
he had told the yarn in detail to several officials
on former occasions.
And so the sobriquet .
* # *
Crayfish w%s once a bailiff, and was sent
to put in an execution in a house, which he found
locked against him. He returned to his office and
reported his failure, at once becoming the scoff of
official comrades. After several ineffectual
attempts, a less malignant mate than the rest
told him that, if he could find an aperture of
certain dimensions in any part of the premises,
he might legally effect entrance by violence.
Crayfi-h went again forth, with gleeful dreams
of vengeance, which he sought to subdue somewhat
by potations on the road. He found a sufficient
aperture, burst into the premises, and found-
he had mistaken the house and burglarised “ next
door,” which also, unfortunately, happened to be
a house of similar description to that to which the
lost Victorian Parliamentary mace was taken !
That was a trouble which cost Crayfish all his
ingenuity to overcome.
• * #
Once, he and two others found themselves
in a seaport town, without a single cent between
them ; and they wanted to return to “ the big
city.” A plot was hatched. They were all
swimmers. Lots were drawn as to the “ parts ”
to be taken by each.
They went aboard, by sections of one, each pre-
tending not to know either of the others.
As the steamer passed out of harbour, there was
a cry of “ Mail overboard !”
Crayfish, who was seated in the saloon, rushed
frantically on deck, singing out “Where?”
plunged overboard, and saved, with difficulty, a
heavy G-ft. man. When both were safely hauled
on deck, Crayfish fell in a faint, gurgled for
“ Brandy ! ” and became the hero of the hour.
Then stepi ed forth the third conspirator, a well-
known cricketer, with, “Gentlemen!” and the
usual speech on bravery. He started by putting
p. supposed ; <£l-nofo into bis hat,, winch he then
parsed round for a collection*, Result: <£26 10s.
i N,J3.-*-jbda<i the-“obllection "‘miscarried, Cray-
insn wohld have “discovered ” that he had lost his
pocket-book while saving the other's life. 1 _ ''
Arrived at Sydney, Crayfish asked the cricketer
for his dividend. ,t
“Oh! we’fe not half done yet”—and a satis-
factory eX^lahatfott\foljAWed' l _ ' ’ '
V, Both inetVobolitah a'hd seaport newspapers rang
‘with this gallant episode. Many people will
remember the later public meeting held in the
seaport Town-hall—Mayor in the chair—Crayfish
again the hero of the hour. Result t JNO odds
# * »
Ones Crawfish was Managing, clerk &
Tasrttaniah lawyer. Who. Bad some connection with
£ big concerning which had to be
taken ‘by commission ” in another province.
Crayfish was despatched there in consequence.
Having no “Gladstone” of his own, he took a
bag belonging to his boss, and, as that bag had
inscribed upon it the full name of its owner,
Crayfish became a distinguished passenger, and
very ably he personated that character.
Now, the very Judge who presided over the
evidence “ by commission ” happened to be own
brother to Crayfish’s boss ! And, what was more
curious, he had never seen his brother, who was
many years younger than he was, having been
born after the eldest son left the paternal roof-
Here was “shucks ” for Crayfish ! The Judge
embraced him fraternally, invited him to an
honorary seat on the Bench during a whole
sessions, consulted him on law-points, besought
him to be his private guest in his own house, and
treated him to a real good time, though, when
family history became the topic, Crayfish always
trembled in fear of discovery. But he got through
with his usual luck, and returned safely to his
boss with a high reputation for his successful
management of his mission !
• * •
Three months later Crayfish’s boss re-
ceived a letter from his brother the Judge, allud-
ing to the good time they had recently enjoyed,
and stating that he was about to visit the lawyer’s
city during “vacation.” The lawyer watched the
shipping-lists, and in due course saw his brother’s
name among the “arrivals.”
He called at the hotel agreed upon, and was
shown into the Judge’s room.
“ But you’re not my brother —my brother’s
quite a little man.”
The lawyer wasbig and burly.
Waiters were called, and a high old scuffle fol-
lowed until someone stopped the shindy. Explana-
tions and a brotherly dinner followed the clean-
ing away of the blood and hair and broken things.
This explains how it happens that Crayfish is
once more in a subordinate billet. But he will
assuredly rise again at the very next opportunity.
GI.
The Irish Yiscount Caledon, who heads
the rebellious “ Loyal ” Orangemen, is related to
the infamous Toler, Irish Attorney-General of ’9B,
who afterwards murderously figured on the Bench
as Lord Norbury.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Saint Peter.
(From an old Swajmar's Point of Vic io.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Now, I think there is a likeness
’Twixt St. Peter’s life and mine,
For he did a lot of trampin’
Long ago in Palestine:
He Wad union ” when the worker!
First Began to organise,
And —I’m glad that old St. Peter
Keeps the gate of Paradise.
When the ancient agitator
And his brothers carried swags,
I’ve no doubt he very oft n
Tramped with ernpiy tucker-bags ;
And I’m glad he’s Heaven’s picket,
For I hate explainin’ things,
And he’ll think a union ticket
Just as good as Whitely King’s.
He denied the Saviour’s union,
Which was weak of him, no doubt;
But perhaps his feet was blistered
And his boots had given out.
And the bitter storm was rushin’
On the bark and on the slabs,
And a cheerful fire was blazin’,
And the hut was full of “ scabs.”
When I reach the great head-station—
Which is somewhere “off the track -
I won’t want to talk with angels
Who have never been out back ;
They might bother me with offers
Of a banjo—meanin’ well—
And a pair of wings to fly with,
When I only want a spell.
I’ll just ask for old St. Peter,
And I think, when he appears,
I will only have to tell him
That I carried swag for years.
“I’ve been on the track,” I’ll tell him,
“ An’ I done the best I could,”
And he’ll understand me better
Than the other angels would.
He won’t try to get a chorus
Out of lungs that’s worn to rags,
Or to graft the wings on shoulders
That is stiff with humpin’ swags;
But I’ll rest about the station
Where the work-bell never rings,
Till they blow the final trumpet
And the Great Judge sees to things.
Sydney.
HENRY LAWHON.
“ Aftet me the revolution will turii the
page, and resume its course. ’’-Napoleon*
A nice-looking funeral recently pervaded
the streets of Roebourne (W. A.). An aborigine
had ‘difed in gaol, and' several "other 'aboriginal
■ briso,Uetß .were turned out to bury him. The
oerbaiied was tint in a dray and partially covered
with a bag, and his legs dangled cheerfully oyer
the back of the vehicle. Two aborigines led
the horse, and four more ran yelling behind.
About half-way to the place of burlap the pro-
cession got mixed up With a White Mail s furietfil
bf i til posing dimensions, and tvheri the 'undressed
borjise arid the barefooted howlers who accom-
panied it had got fairly entangled with the other
crowd the horse stopped short and fiatly declined
to move. Then a pandemonium arose, while the
blackfellow’s funeral yelled and cursed and
shouted and urged on the horse with violence, and
the white man’s funeral was scattered to the four
winds by the plunging of the imuriated animal,
and the deceased bounced up and down on his
cart, and his legs flew out at all sorts o* angles.
Ultimately the horse was taken out of the dray,
and the mourners ran the vehicle and the corpse
through the town at a sharp trot, and bundled
him into his sepulchre, where he now sleeps
beneath his hag in the sure and certain hope of a
blessed resurrection. Last of all the horse Was
harnessed up again, and the cortege galloped
hilariously back to the gaol amid the excited
cheers of the local small boy, and the ceremony
was over. Only the white man’s funeral has since
been making a considerable row oyer the intrusion
of the defunct black into the midst of its gtiefj
and it is rumoured that a new system is to be
adopted for the future.
When the school committee chairman
introduced to the Weyba Creek (Q.) school its new
master, Howe, he congratulated the latter upon
having “an intillijint mob of byes an’ gurnls to
insthruct.” His felicitations, however, WCte not
devoid of misgiving, for the average stay of
former masters had been stormy and short, owing
chiefly to the untameableness of hobble-
dehoys—gaunt, lanky youths who could “stick a
buck ” to perfection, and give the pedigree of every
racehorse in Australia, were great on brands, but
were dunces at “ book-learning. ” Howe wasn t
long in discovering sojne of their peculiarities.
Entering school one morning, he found
Reilly vigorously caning a smaller boy.
down that stick!” thundered the master, lor
answer. Reilly bolted, flinging away the roo of
castigation. After him pelted the schoolmaster,
and after him chivvied a couple of scholars. “Cross
the creek,” roared the hinder pals, “the cove earn t
swim!” Reilly dashed on as directed, and,
when on the bank, noticed a boat. With inspired
thought, he leaped therein, pulled out the plug,
and then dived off into the stream. Pedagogue
Howe, inwardly fuming at the escaping rebel, saw
the boat, and, in a twinkling, was afloat, poling
the craft across with a sapling. So intent was he
on watching the fugitive that he did not notice
that the boat was filling until it was in mid-stream
and the water was cooling his kneecaps. Just as
he tried to turn back, the boat went down, with a
gurgle, in ten feet of water, and the schoolmaster
roared for help, in the presence of his assembled
scholars. Reilly and another boy had to dive in
and drag the pedagogue ashore by the hair. Half-
an-hour’s hard work restored him. . . . That
was two years ago. Howe is still master of the
Weyba Creek school, and, strangely enough, has
never had any trouble with any of Ids scholars
since having been nearly drowned through the
horseplay of one of them. Moral Scare your
master to death, and then—forgive him.—S.W.S.


sd
Soap Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
rmi
The Queen
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince <* Wales
“The Prince of the Red Desert.”
An imaginative American journalist has pub-
lished in Frank Leslie’s'lllustrated a piece of
financial embroidery as above and purport-
ing to be “ a tale of,Australian discovery.” Some
years ago a light-coloured aborigine was shown in
our principal cities by a Mr. MThee, who brought
him from the far Nor them 'Westralia. Mr. Ladel
Barnes Gustafson, the journalist in question, made
the acquaintance of Junc/un at Melbourne Wax-
works. He found the Prince of the Red Desert
seated between two black aborigines chanting a
song which Gustafson attempts to reproduce.
Here are two verses :
THE SONG OF TUB RED DESERT’S SON.
Yah-nan-nan ! Yah-nan-nan ! Yo-erroe-ee !
O’er the shimmering sands,
By the feet and the hands
To the Perigul Tree !
Yah-nan-nan! Yafi-err-ree / Yoe-nan-nan-ah !
And hoarse is the moan—
When the irghilly's thrown—
Or the wild mooyumkarr.
Yah-nan-nan-oo ! Yah-nan-nan-ah I
Yah-erroe-noo-an-an! Yah-arra-nah!
Then commences the history of MThee’s search
for and discovery of the Prince.
But now reports thickened, and when, in all, three
hundred miles were made he came upon the tribe in a
torrid desert place, where the sand gave forth, instead of
grass, obstructing patches, most difficult to move in, of a
low, spikey scrub called spinifex. There were no huts,
no dwellings of any kind, and but one condition-
existence. The tribe fed on snakes, iguanas, and a kind of
wild rats which herd in packs between the sand furrows,
and upon the seeds of the Perigul tree, of which they are
specially fond. They drank from what appeared to be
naturally hollowed stone tanks, holding such rain as
chanced to fall, and from occasional springs. In the
hottest season they stretched themselves for the night
like lizards along the limbs of the perigul and other trees,
but generally slumbered half buried in the sand. And
now, as MThee came forward, a wonderful reward for
his faith and the hardships of his toilsome march met
him, when forth from his black people stepped the
golden-haired Jungun, he whom, though but as any one
of his tribe in their eyes, I have chosen, not unwarrant-
ably, to call—The Prince of the Red Desert! A savage,
indeed, with the habits, tjje heredity, and the ineffaceable
stamp of the wilderness upon him, but a man with a head
more commanding than rests on the shoulders of any
known savage king, or of most European potentates ; and
with brows and temples of a model to match with any in
the deliberate conclaves of the civilised world.
After this, Mr. Gustafson waxes eloquent over the
fortunes of Jungun, Dr. Bevan, Baron Mueller,
and a ‘‘clever Melbourne journalist,” unite in
forming interesting theories concerning his origin.
But the idyllic part of the affair is the conclu-
sion. Gustafson drives out to Hawthorn to visit
Mr. Lindt, the well-known photographer. There
the following episode takes place :
While I was admiring this beautiful studio, with its
wealth of interesting, unfamiliar things made by an un-
familiar race, a portiere at one end of the room was drawn
aside and a gentleman entered wearing a suit of dark-blue
serge. His bearing was unassuming and precisely what
is meant in the best use of the word aristocratic. He
carried his hat in one hand, on the little finger of which
was a heavy seal ring. His hands were finely shaped,
with flexible, slender, tapering fingers. He barely glanced
at me, then,turned his eyes to the curious things adorning
the walls, and so stood, leaning slightly on a cane. For
ease of carriage he might have been an habitue of the
European courts, except that ease so purely natural is
rarely acquired, though it may be met with in them.
It was the Prince of the Red Desert!
This is about the most sudden and startling trans-
formation of an aborigine—a myall—ever heard
of. Jungun, when exhibited in Sydney, was
simply an ordinary nigger of the low type common
to the desert country. By some strange freak he
was of a light yellow colour—such freaks are not
unknown in Africa ; but he was neither an albino
nor a half-caste. However, according to Gustaf-
son, the Southern Cross knows all about it, and on
the same authority the Southern Cross is to be
trusted. This is how he winds up :
And at last, after all researching, guessing, doubting,
and asserting, Jungun remains a secret, to us, as to him-
self. Yet as the existence of a secret, as such, involves its
being held within some intelligence, it follows that the
corporate secret called Jungun is known. Assuredly the
Southern Cross knows it, for bright over the desert must
have been that star-sown night in which so inexplicable a
life had its beginning. But the Southern Cross can be
trusted. It does not give ; it keeps ; and age by age into
the illimitable,.lightless depths of that serial hollow in the
heavens over which it keeps eternal guard, it gathers the
one true history of this strange, time-worn austral land—
a history that will never be written.
Ballade of ye Bewitching Barmaiden.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
O, youth so prone to lounge in bar
While yet the summer sun is high,
Whose loveliness naught e’er can mar,
Immaculate in “ cascade ” tie—
Beware of her whose drinks you buy,
Be cold and hard should she invite —
As spider once invited fly—
“ Ta-ta ! Will you be in to-night ?”
Nor youth alone ! Behind cigar
The father oft his oar will ply,
And give her gloves and jevvell’d star
And warmly wink the other eye—
The gay old dog can pose as sly
And shows to all his keen delight
When Hebe utters that weird cry—
“ Ta-ta ! Will you be in to-night?”
A fool through all your mash you are !
She’s wrapt in rouge, she’s dipt in dye !
You drink and jest and miss your car
And trudge it ’neath the midnight sky—
While she, “ unstuffed,” looks such a guy
That e’en the beer would sour with fright
Were she just then downstairs to sigh—
“Ta-ta ! Will you be in to-night ?”
Envoy,
Pals ! Of the syphon nymph be shy
Now when her powers are at their height;
Leave that refrain to foolish fry—
“Ta-ta! Will you be in to-night ?”
CARROWKEAL.
The red-headed man or woman was held
in particular admiration among the peoples of
Northern and Central Europe in pre-Christian
times, and Thor, the war-god of the North, was a
red-headed god by reason of his greatness. Then
the Christian teachers, in their anxiety to jump on
everything Pagan, laid their curse on the flaming
locks of the old deity and on red hair and its
owners in general. Every red-headed girl, from
the sixth century to the nineteenth, has an action
for damages against the Church, and should follow
it up to the bitter end.
A One-Sided Game.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With every breath of the autumnal breeze
showers of leaves fell from the willows on the
opposite bank into the Yarra. The bark hanging
from the gums flapped against the boles with
irritating regularity. The setting sun tinted the
water with a thousand shades of colour. His pipe
drew well, and in his brain were happy pictures.
In a few days he would be married .to his darl—
What was that noise? A subdued chuckle like
the first undecided notes of a laughing-jackass.
Again : Ha ! ha ! ha ! and nearer.
He turned on his elbow, then started to his feet,
for through the leaves of a shrub a few yards dis-
tant he had caught sight of a face. A pale, thin
face, half-concealed beneath a ragged, black beard,
and the eyes—black, aimless, mad eyes—were
watching him. In a moment he understood —it
was a lunatic escaped from the asylum, the roof of
which he could see from where he stood. He was
a little man. The best thing to do was to sneak
quietly away, and pretend he had not noticed the
face among the boughs.
Again that hideous, subdued chuckle.
He walked down the path. A crackling under-
foot. He looked behind him—the lunatic was
following, walking quickly with occasional jumps
in the air.. Faster he walked, so did the
lunatic—now gaining every stride. He ran ; the
lunatic gave a wild whoop and ran also. Along
the river path they went, seeing no one. He
thought of all the tales he had ever heard concern-
ing lunatics. But the other day he had read
about one overpowering a man, and, after biting
his ears off, finally killing him. And he was to
have been married in a week ! She would never
know, for, no doubt, after killing him, the lunatic
would throw his body into the river. How came
all those dead bodies in the Yarra!
A “whoop” from close behind lent fresh im-
petus to his flight. He was wet with perspiration.
His hat was gone, also his pipe; they had come a
mile and he was nearly done. He could go no
further.
The steps came nearer—he “could almost feel”
the lunatic’s “ hot breath.” He felt a hand touch
his shoulder.
“Tig!” said the lunatic, passing on with a
triumphant grin.
THE PAUPER.
The Mundic Miner (Q.) headlined its
reports of the late Brisbane (Q.) floods ; “ The
Wrath of God on the Rotten Government!”
“ Corruption Repaid by Divine Wrath ! ” “ Bris-
bane Completely Washed Away ! ”
Fatality 1 A Macclesfield (Eng.) grocer
named Lynham had a vicious dog and resolved to
shoot it. He missed it with the first barrel and
the dog promptly bit him in the leg. Then he let
fly with the butt-end of the gun at its head and
missed again, but the second barrel exploded and
killed him. Nobody can escape when his time has
come. If the second barrel hadn’t exploded he
would either have mashed his toe with the butt-
end and died of lock-jaw, or he would have died
of hydrophobia—if the dog didn’t eat him up on
the spot.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
Quote : “ The two really great powers are
America and Russia, and when Russia has toppled
over the Czar they go hand in hand.”
Five of the death-claims recently paid by
the Mutual Insurance Co. of New York (U.S.A.)
present extraordinary features. The policies were
for 5000 dols. each, and the totals show :
Amount insured for, 25,000 dols. ; dividends added
by the M.I. Co., 27,851 dols.; total amount of
claims paid, 52,851 dols. ; total net premiums paid
by insurers, 24,422’51 dols; return over cost
(equivalent to interest on investment), 28,428‘59
dols.; dividend additions surrendered to pay pre-
miums (which may therefore be called forfeited
interest), 7079 dols. An itemising analysis shows
that in every case but one the dividend additions
exceed the net premiums paid; and that on each
of three policies the additions exceeded the original
insurance.
A Cape York Peninsula snake-perjury.
Pat Burke and Bill Gemmel were on their way to
the Batavia rush, and pitched tent one night near
the Coen. They turned in early, after a strong
supper of German-sausage, one of which mysteries
had been left on top of a swag that lay on the
floor between the impromptu bunks. About mid-
night, Gemmel was awakened by feeling some-
thing rough and cold on his face. He lay perfectly
still, in semi-paralysed horror. Presently the
thing moved off, and he saw that it was a snake
making straight for the German sausage.
Gemmel called to Burke and then crawled out of
the tent, and lay down outside till morning, when
he found that Pat had already brought in the
horses. “Nothing disturb you in the night?”
says Bill. “No,” replied Burke, “but I gets up
myself, feeling awful hungry. I couldn’t find a
match, but knows where the sausage was. So I
whips out me knife and cuts off a whack of the
sausage. By Christopher! warn’t it tough just,
an’ I’ve been sick ever since.” Gemmel went into
the tent and found —the remains of the snake and
sausage. The snake had choked itself trying to
swallow the sausage, and Pat had eaten a section
of snake and sausage combined.
Raymond Blathwayt has made such a suc-
cess, in England, as an interviewer that he is
bound to have imitators. One of these is young
Lord Mountmorres, whose father, it may be remem-
bered, was shot in Ireland some years ago. He
has taken to journalism as a profession, and shapes
very well indeed. He has tried his ’prentice
hand, as an interviewer, upon Phil May, and in
St. James’ Gazette made the genial caricaturist
give utterance to no end of absurd things which
never entered his head or came out of his mouth.
However, he was not quite so bad as the Leader
man, who drew upon his imagination entirely.
Phil is now suffering the penalty of greatness. A
story is told of this young Mountmorres. Some-
time after his father’s murder, he was sent to
school at Windsor. Queen Victoria heard of this,
and being desirous of doing something for the lad
—making him one of her pages, or something—
she sent for him to come to the castle. He, of
course, obeyed, and put in an appearance, but in
kneeling down to kiss Vic.’s hand he somehow
overbalanced himself and very nearly pulled Her
Gracious down on top of him. Her Majesty
doesn’t usually take such gaucheries quietly, but
on this occasion she saw the joke of the thing and
said to him, “ Well, I intended to make you one
of my pages, but you have much to learn before I
can do so.” He never received the appointment,
though.


Hotel.
« IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(ProiU Pltt«Mtreei to
Bttuieen Einu & Market Stu,
kydvev.
wr,rT’ i flranprww
wmimmMM
//M
m
\ SS
8®“ IN THE VERY HEART OE THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. AH Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
jVfanageii,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. Every
mfterer Is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bnng about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecbam’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in »
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. ljd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Q>
PATENT
B
P ILLS
tp
53
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GrRATEF OL—COMFORTING-
COCOA
cromarT!
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements
WATSONS
f
WHISKY
m
'•mmm
rn
fwM
ftsaggs
gess
«4
“Sufe,
Best on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing Sc Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
‘AGoldenSlnty.’
PEIOE: TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
T&, S* Js’scnV
Vegetable
FOR
CURE
op,u M HABIT
Drunkenness
iw NEURASTHENIA;
PROVED
By living 1 witnesses tobeths
Only Remedy which can bs
taken at Home with Success.
j The treatment STOPS the Desire for Llquot
in from 6 to 24 hours.
HOME
or Self-Treatment, sent to any
address free from observation.
— ___ Pull particulars t
Colonial References in our
BOOK,
poctftd free,
Ad drew—
The TYSON SANATORIUM Co.'
SCOTT CHAMBERS, 96 HTT-ST..
VO.
ROSES
trUL
X
£
pm
pi
m
m
x
£
G
-4'
oS
CPI
LOti
iii
85
SST
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
n- a. rosiht
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all \yholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Bs. 6d.
j»W' Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
A.xrcl Foster Mothers.
MAN UPACT U BED by I). M. HADE INS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN,
Showrooms: S 4 Bathurst Sihkkt, SYDNEY.
THEONLYI
RELIABLE
Business
k
sd
'S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
81s. to 15s. Cd. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send P.O.O. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
TILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Land »V: Building Co., Limited,
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
AST As an illustration ; —For a Block, 5 acres, at
.£10 per acre, the 1st, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
<£1 5s. for the 5 acres—condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th years,
£117s. 6d., £2 10s., £315s.. £5—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land ‘or the £50, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title,
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate ; or
WATKIN & WAT KIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element Of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blond, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S .Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
drugs.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lend.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Or*.
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
r Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PEUMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry's pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 t > 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN.
H
EUREKA \
ELECTRIC BELTsAvj
y
W
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUs. SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwaids. This famous Electric Magnetic, Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, I’ains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are suady and constantly felt by
the w'earer. It has great iinprov> nvuts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 day S 3 trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what «e represent them to be. Those 1» its are
made for t he spi cific purpose of producing a c< ntinuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all Hie weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and v igorousstrength,
even the worst case permanently cute.l in lluee months.
It is more to ivenient to wtar tdm.ii any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full inhumation and testi-
monials f roii) prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they mav obtain these holts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 910, G.P.0., Sydney.
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNBY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bullet! n,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only payer which has a consistent and dit
tinctive Australian National Policy,
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Comnlete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
khan half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
Milly-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less-servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has over seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clabns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable, strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per A nnum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial cdnlmuill-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Auchiuall).


Free Preacriptiona
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,*
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Tree, sealed,- for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
B. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■VTOTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
Xl cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s WliisKy.
SO GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, Ci.P.O.
Telephone 973.
W. MAMM ATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Creeds
—AND—
CTJTLEEIT
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUENE.
IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST" OE SIX: ”
Tales of tlie Austral Tropics,
BY
EEITEST FAVEUC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYDKTEY.
[Established oyee a Quarter of a Century.]
):(
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—ios. 6d. per Day. Walt 6P Sidney (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
>
&iir,Wii
;7 : FV /■
# c o
<RAc{aJocK>
c»* O-
L V ° Cj’
f ti
V :17
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 144 tiarcuce-st, Sydney.
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party ; “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Wliisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else ! ’’
Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Hill.
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&0., &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
tran)
«
f
StL'fe
■-kr'
Uock Breakers,
WestliishoKse Engines.
iih iwr.
...
HSi
1 ■ ■' - '?•“ r T“ l '
TANGYES
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.— i to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. por spare inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
m
Hay-street 0,n ‘-"' Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
SHOWROOMS
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
