

mm
a
Os
tn
CADBURY’S COCOA
absolutely pure THEREFORE BEST,
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS 5 EACH
METROPOLITAN STAKES SEPT. 19th
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER 14th
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER Ith .... -
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (Fob Horses Only)
30.000 @ 5 Bach.
30.000 @ 3 Each.
50.000 @ 5 Each.
30.000 @ 10 Bach.
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c o H. Alexander,
171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
&
Mining
and Contractors’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ t
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
and SECOND-HAND
-FOU—
Plant, Engineers’ and
NEW
TRAV' OTSI (i TjVR.V
PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ghj
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
fi-na.
ranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MAET
A
V
Tt
4>
&
o
o
o
<RAc^asocK>
o
c
c*
o
■r
o
-i
V
r.)
: r. A. Server. Agent, 'S . Sydney
Free
Are to bo found in th»- aiul Life,
Are so ob tounu ui «u' • , ,
for the Speedy Cure of DEB! Ell \ and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy, of this book will be sent
. Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
AMim —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
XT OTICE. —Advertisement# for Current Week
i x cannot bo received EATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
'
,t(SSm il iliTty f* PkjJouT? -f' *
55-*
-
rt.
.. r
-~v>
; y
oES
o*L
fHjt
£
#o*S
«25
nt-;
"!
iSWRSS
B ■BBBBP I
rT '*i * * •
TheOxforti Hotelj Street, Sydney -
H. THORPE * ...
PROPRIETOR.
-TH E
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
FOR
milk ..
i'RIMH ..
HE
BITTEK
FISH
BINE ..
reiii'KV
PA.ISTKV, Ac.
The Purest Country.
Double .or Si n«le
The Clearest: Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Hcyd.
Colonial, English, N.Z.. American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the f lined Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts ot the Company I>KLIVKI{ TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SI HCII-BS.
The splendid railway facilities offered hj the Hallway
Commissioners enable ns to FORWARD DAIL\ to all
parts of the Colony;—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME.
I»ou.ltry, Pastry, etc.
11. I* t ITSOX,
Ist July, 18198. Manager.
wunn whiskt.
JOJHtI* WAX-KEII, BOND
msorn ale.
STREET, SYX>3ME-X-.
jr.
Sole
.A.jSeia.'fcs I** e-w
South -Welles
for iVleasis. Clayton arui Shuttleworth.
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
H AKVEST E RS. RB A PERS.
MUI U !*OP.v* l.ULvv .v - '
IM BROVKO I’ORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
s
K: ' ;
m
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.B. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Bmdnes of all classes: Undertype Engines : Boilers of all
1,1,1,, ThriHhimr Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; hlevotors ; Saw (tenches.
nines: Portable S r Oorn
* -y-
Ste
i fw-. ail'
■
i
.- ■■
i-
HOWARD’S SOLID ST OK I. KHAMK
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWIN 13, OIL, kit., wrtv
kl:
.ECTIUC LIGHTING
J. &
RNOINKS WINDING KNGINE8, TRACTION ENGINES. or FullCatah
C. Howara, 28O2
h, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on applioatic
Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 13. 2s o. 7! •>. j
I Saiuruuv, SeptemueJ' 23, ib'>’3.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Briglxton of WTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK .
Mra. KIZXfAXIN'aTSXI .... Proprietress.
A. \Nf> J. STEWART & CO.'S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
gh
Makaohr for
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SY
DNEY
i 4
Leger” Tobacco. “ Leger” Tobacco.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O
DIVIDED
£5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER. 1893.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS!
Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893-
DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING!
- “ LEGER ’ ’ has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success of the “LEGER," the manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O
£5O
£5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows
£l5 O
10 O
7 10
5 5
5 0
S 3
2 2
2 0
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER’ paper fairs or labels
from the plugs during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity. TWO GUINEAS
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS
Competition closes December 17,1893. Tickets must he sent in not later than December 21, 1893.,
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags secur ly packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23, 1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public vnav be present to see the contents counted.
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—“ LEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offired. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, hut of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. 3d. and often
Is. 6d. lor. The proof of the padding is in the eating!
. Ask for the “ Leger ” Tobacco —Price, Is. per Block.
Leger
Has cangHt
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the ohaooe of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week’s-supply 25 per cent, cheaper.
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent, ✓
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“THE LAST OF SIX.
99
Price
One Shilling-.
Med real.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
«■ APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. ME. PERRY,
145 Elizakkth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GEATEFOL—COMFORTING
COCOA
tw A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
1| OL LOW AY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
X I There is not. a country in Hie civilised world where
the nettling virtues of thes <* grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousandsof sufferers. In ail the ordinary
ailW nts of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Niff Oxford -sr., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Lots.
If the address is not 528 Oxford-street. I/indon, they ara
sourioua.
m
•sas
jg
EMBROCATION,
m
Jj
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS Am) INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” —Crus. FT. Pxksse
’
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &G. Whk .IOHNSTONB
Ph.D., F.C.S., <%c.. Public Analysis.
DR RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
fJIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEAL
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
SE^
POWDER
1
7
t
M
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S! ’
He; “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He r “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
‘Men I have Smiled with.”
w E STAY at Bruton’s,
jMHnaTnon
BOURKE. Every Comfort at RALPH’S
“ UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
N
YNGAN. WINTERS’ TATTER
SALE’S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms.
W iarr© ml.
Give FULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
BATHURST.
■rroa.M.or’s C3-x*a.aticaL 3E3Co>-tel
FOR EXCELLENCE and COMFORT.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CM AS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, kc.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6e. per DAY. TERMS : 30a. per WEEK.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, audits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. AT KIN-"ON
24, Old Bond Street, London. ■
CAUTtON ! On.y genuine with shicld-
sliape blue and yellow label and usual
k Trade .'.ark—a V \Vbile nose"—
and address in full.
MAN H O O J>.
HEALTH. STKEblUTH A A'/> I'IGOR RESTORED
In Tour Weeks by the use of
hj
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Rioords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitat'd constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the. human frame.
In cases of ISs, or four quantities in one for Xs Freight
extra Pamphlets free on. receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry dh Co., 73 Gertrude.
Street. Fitsroy. MELBOURNE
Agentsfor N. 8. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
To Newsagents, etc.
4
T A. S ism
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terns on Application.
Medical.
BALDNESS
Cured and Prevented with
“ 3E3AV 3E3C O 3E*L 2VT-”
It removes the cause, viz.: Congestion of the Follicle*,
and provides food for the hair. 5/- per Bottle.
m
GREY HAIR,
Wuiskws. Eyebrows, Ac.,
Quickly resume their own rich natural
colour with
Horn’s ‘‘ Acesma f ”
Non-poisonous, free from grease and
smell, does not stain the skin.
9/C and 5/.
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
“Horn’s Hair Solvent * (Reg.)
Leaves no mark.
2 (i and 5/- per Bottle,
Testimonials from Medical Men Clergy
men. and analytical reports and press
opinions with, eych bottle. These will con-
vince the most sceptical. Prepared bp
Dr. O. E. HORN. Hair Specialist,
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne,
and the New Zealand Drug Co., Wellington. Christchurch,
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
or for 1/6 extra from the Proprietor. A valuable Treatise
on “Tiik Human Hair” (illustrated), post free for Sts
stamps.
NERVOUS MEN.
k
EUREKA
MS
ELECTR
BELT.
m
N.
U
i\
'‘h'V
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Eh-ctric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Ba- k, Lum-
bago, Gid liness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great impmv m ids over all other
htlts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them
selves what e represent them to be. Those la Its are
made f .r t he sp< cific purpose of producing a c ni inuous,
mild, soothing current O'eleOlriciiy through all the weak-
ened parts; restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst cas u permnnei tty cn e 1 in three months,
it is more CO ivenienl to war than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full infoimation and testi-
monials from prominent peo| throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they mav obtain these belt?
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address;-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box PIG. G.P.0., Svpnbv.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
0
ft
PATENT
PILLS.
£
V
05
35
d
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous di» inters,
such as wind and pain In
the stomach,, siok head
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizz'uess, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, ko. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
nrnig about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BKECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
■ heir use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
if the liver, they act like “ MAO IC,” and a few doses will
oe found to work wonders upon the most important
irgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
firing back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
•nergy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS" tes ified
ontinnally by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Bcecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech am’s Magic Cough PiUs.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Bronchial
Affret ons. lUmrsen.ss, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ud Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
land unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
mblic ami ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
md difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
nitientof rest. Let any person give Bbkcham’s Cooon
'ii.i.s a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
hort time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
’roprietor, Thomas Bet Chain, St. Helens, Lancashire,
Ingland, in boxes Is. lsd. (containing 66 pills), and at
s.’ffri. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Do“b>r-<
very where.
V B. - ■Full directions are given with each. box.
Talks of tile convict system.
Price—One Shilling.


Medical.
!
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified am] Registered by fciie Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption, ” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English G ivernraeiit). Railway .Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ON 13 SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append af -w questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing a r ter Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Gold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
cr Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of bellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Hook, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
®r wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday— 9.30 a.in. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
<3T Address all Communications :
Dr.JECKELLYINfe,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE tiUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Or. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
n
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and ' favourably-
known Dispensary I bat now boars his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
n the leading cblog ■ and hospitals of Europe.
1 !e has devoted a life- time to the study of
Hervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods hv which they may be eradi-
cated, with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Hia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circlet
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receiv®
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his ease has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. . If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
■ lining to Australia, and has permission from, at
h ast. 000 persons to show their written evidence
; ,f i,is success. All communications should bo
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 CObbEGK STUIvKT, SYDNEY.
He sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION TREE.
Hotel.
m
=A-
spig
BO
“ The (Sydney goffee Palace” gotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, V.S.M., Ausiralia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TAKIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board ... 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
26s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
im:*< KirTivtt.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlookiiiu Government
Domain and
Bolanica! Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbs ng residen ts
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long*
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
yith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
*pHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O. ELDRI3DGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
“ A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold !”
TAYLOR BROS.,
Pipe Makers & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET.
The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking Pipes.
Needle Wood Pipe
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stem), 4/6
Myall Wood Pipe ditto 4/6
Yarran Wood Pipe ditto 4/6
Wood Pipe, Silver Mount and Amber Stem, 7/6
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
Pipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
Agents wanted for Australian Native Wood Pipes.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be forwarded (post free) at above prices.
vO'
■ /
11l
•II
NOW READY, post free
is. 6d., THE LIFE,
ADVENTURES, and CON-
FESSIONS of a SYDNEY
BARMAID.
Highly Interesting.
To be had only of And Unique.
MADAME PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
Mi
/ I
i:\
M' /
Medical.
TESTIMONIALS
■Like the following are constantly arriving
from oil parts of the tvorld and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’s
-Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Bead the letters:
. From Australia,
f Mb. "W. H. Pbice, of "Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul U Co., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebelt as soon asit is placed on bis body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, andl
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” From America .
Mu J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes —“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, al so, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got upas i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled meever since until I tried your belt. Foroncyear
now I have felt as I used to at 20."
IEJ-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write for free descriptive “Pamphlet. No. 2,” and
p/r.-ue mention this when you address; W. 11. boul & Co.,
158 Pitt St.. Sydney! Elliott. Bros., Brisbane ; or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San Francisco, U.S. A.
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, 4c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Shipping.
E
NCLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVIOB.
Avoiding til ike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited!,
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Steamer.
MONOWAI
ALAMEDA
MARIPOSA
Leave
Tons. Sydney
at 4 p.m.
1
Leave [ Arrive afc
Auckland, j San
at 2 p.m. Francisco,
.. 3433 October 2 October
.. 3158 Oct. 30 Nov.
.. 3158 Nov. 27 Dec.
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £'s2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON, vis. PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows :
Steamer Commander
V.deIaLIOTAT Fiaschi
POLYNESIEN L. Boulard
ARMAND
BEHIGiA. Poydenoti
Dates of Departure.
Syd tiey [Melbourne r Adelaide
Noon | 1 p.m. j 1 p.m.
Sept. 27iSept. 30(Oot. 2
Get. 271 N0v. I'Nov. 3
Nov. 27iDec. 1 Deo. 3
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
CROMARt!
m
CROMARTY
Whisfa:
CltttUES BROTHERS
OtISCOffIOKDON «»o
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKT.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
Qfl, FOR A MOUSTACHBII
Ca.pilla.riue!
Thu Lightnbm" Moustache Producer. ‘¥l
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarlne—lOs. 6d,, Post Free.
€KAI« A AITKEIV, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY
‘THE LOUNGE HAIR-BRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 »V 68‘i George Street. Sydney.
iar NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


IT
a»£
O&OEST
©@VINS
marline
■jVeßi©
Before purchasing any other
ibnd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
%
\
V"
HOWE
ss
J.Wjohnston&Co.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Sheath.
Fitted with HUNTING KNIFE, and Handy
STEEL for Sharpening.
PLAIN. 8/- each ; IMPROVED DESIGN, IS/- each.
ghj
V&~ POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of Money Order.
w. Jno. Baker, CUTtEK, 3 Hanter-St, SYDNEY, Australia-
Newton
NOV ISLTIKS
in—
& Lamb
(Artistic Designs at Moderate prices.
■
KMIItIN AT'O*
SECRETARY,
Bookcases
AND
China Cabinets
Suitable for the
Dining-room, Library
AND
Boudoir.
■ AT JIM;; a , Id'AUes-'- ■>.
Estimates for FURNISH IXO
a Single Room or a Mansion.
A STAFF OF
SKILLED WORKMEN
AND
Improved 1/ <t eh inert/
Employed on the Premises.
SPUING & O’CONNALL STREETS, SYDNEY.
5
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers. G-aa Engines
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THK
4 Plum ’
g
THE
‘ Plum’
rilH r S brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public
I Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and w<
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave jtheni
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Retiistered tout sod Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and
nia, Is. extra
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, <?80 George Street, *YI)NK\
Teeth.- a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-stroot. —Single Tooth, 2/6;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 6/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:—
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes; “The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
98 KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
hj
m*
u wsmaa
£3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedt for
coughs, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
A£lo
INFLUENZA,
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Jity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st,
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited
gh
ULUi'UAU .vlJ.il Aiit
Cellular Cloth
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab’e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM Si MUTCH,
75 Kme St., SYDNEY.
Banking.
ANK OF NEW SOUTH WALKS
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
NOTICE is hereby given that a SPECIAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders of
the BANK will be held at the Chief Banking
House, George-street, SYDNEY, on WEDNES-
DAY, the 27th day of SEPTEMBER Next, at
Noon, to consider the propriety of increasing the
capital of the Bank, by the creation of new
shares.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, July 31,1893.
— I THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Bbanohbs :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commexcial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Public Companies.
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE 00. (Ltd.)
CHAIRMAN:
The Hon. JOHN SEE, 31. E.,
COLONIAL TREASURER.
HEAD
OFFICES:
35
Sitt <St,,
SYDNEY.
jg
Capital,
1500,000,
Subscribed,
-0150,000,
THIS Company is purely Australian, with a
large and influential body of Shareholders,
Security undoubted. Rates lowest. Settlements
prompt and equitable. Cash Bonus paid to In-
surers annually.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
LONDON & LANCASHIRE
— fire:
Insurance
Capital
(JBHUIy Subscribed),
"LONDON &
t LANCASHIRE
4
IJI.H
Company.
£2,127,500
WE COMMEND THE
London and Lancashire
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
FOR
Security, Enterprise
AND
LIBERALITY.
All descriptions of Property and also Rents Insured
Total Security to pay Fire Losses, nearly £3,000,000.
APPLICATIONS for AGENCIES are invited from DISTRICTS where the Company is not
at present represented.
Liberal Commission allowed, for Introduction of Business.
This old-established and favourably-known Company having the whole world as its
field of operations, is enabled to conduct its business at a moderate rate of expenditure,
md, consequently, can offer excellent terms to the insuring public, and equal to those
>ffered by any Bonus-paying Company
Head Office for
New South Wales:
2 Bond Street, SYDNEY.
T. TL Richards, Local Manager.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission h’y post as a Newspaper.
v©l. 13-110.710.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1893,
Price, 6d.
fßff TRADE MONSIfP
JIEETIfti
H'nilLAN ONTH <!
PfJIIDML SimWM
fRFFDOM
vinoic mm
N-B TheprocKc(/W(S
Ton ducted tD |r
-^5
ANOTHER RASCALLY ATTEMPT TO SNEAK-IN “PROTECTION.”
“My dear M‘Millan, — I will send the police to keep order at your meeting.” —DIBBS.
M‘MI LLAN: “But the football teams are here."
POLICE : “Very well then,. Oi will look afther the footballers.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians. ’
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum • ••• £lO 0
Half-yearly - 012 J\
Quarterly... 0 0 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added inhere required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any A ustralian province you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
•city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
m the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that ivearenot responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Elect Street, E.C.
ALSO IN THE Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £I, with iis. Sd.
added for postage.
No papers will he sent unless the subscript ion be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
Tjfc^^Xxlle&TL.
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 23, 1893.
Laud Tax v. Single Tax.
Op all the political parties in Australia the
Single-tax congregation is probably the one
which has" of late years, been most earnest
and most in evidence. The Single-taxers
first came into evidence with the advent of
Henky t George in Australia, and since then
they have been noted as the most enterpris-
ing and the most violently cock-sure of all
the political factions which divide these pro-
vinces. Yet, with all their energy they have
never distinctly formulated their programme;
their policy is a blind and unquestioning be-
lief in Henry George, hut George’s writ-
ings are misty and uncertain on many points,
and his public utterances, while in Australia,
were still more misty, and where he was
uncertain his followers are uncertain like-
wise. Their theory, so far as it has been
definitely expressed, is that there is to he
hut one tax, and that a tax on the unim-
proved value of land. The Land-tax party
—to which The Bulletin has always be-
longed—also demands a tax on the unim-
proved value of land, hut as it advocates
other imposts as well it is accursed of the
Single-tax party.
• # •
The Single-tax party, so far as one can
gather, demands that everyth in<j except land
should he free —that there shall he no duties
on beer, whisky, tobacco, Chinamen, Hindoos,
or any other substance whatever, and that
the white farmer should be burdened so that
the yellow Mongol may be at rest. This
view of the case, it is true, is never definitely
set forth in their speeches or manifestoes,
hut they demand, in the most absolute
terms, that there shall he only one tax, and
the rest inevitably follows. Further, it also
inevitably follows, in New South Wales at
all events, that they demand the entire
confiscation by the State of everybody’s
land-value—not only the land of the big
land-jobber and speculator, hut also that of
the farmer who has honestly paid the State
for his selection all, and in some cases a good
deal more than all it is worth. This item
also is not mentioned in the programme—at
least it is not set forth in the full glare of
its bald and naked ugliness ; hut it is the
inevitable corollary of that programme. The
Single-taxers propose that land shall meet
all the expenses of Government. And to do
that, in New South Wales, it must, as things
stand, be taxed practically to its full un-
improved value, and the “cockatoo,” who
has bought his land from the State,
must be charged almost exactly the same
rental as if he had not bought the
land at all. Therefore, the money he
paid for the land is absolutely confiscated,
which is the same thing as confiscating the
land itself. He will retain his title-deeds,
but lie will pay the same rent or tax to the
State as the Crown tenant who never bought
his land and who has no title-deeds. This,
it must be remembered, is strictly in accord
with the Georgian “ We take the kernel and
leave you the husk ” —or words to-* that
effect.
# * *
It is noteworthy that the Single-taxers are
mostly men of the cities and that there ai’e
among them hut few people landholders.
They are mainly a body of non-producers who
propose to cease contributing any thing to wards
the expenses of the State, and to shift the
burden on to others—the producing classes
included. As an incidental feature of
their gospel, they propose to bring about an
era of cheap niggers, cheap drink, cheap
Chinamen, cheap shoddy and “ inungo,” and
“ devils-dust ” generally. And their blind
frenzy helps to retard the Land-tax, and
their confiscation policy serves as a text
from which the Fat Man preaches about the
ruin and desolation which will come if his
big estate is made to contribute to the
national revenue. The chief obstacle in the
way of a Land-tax, in fact, is the existence
of the Single-tax party.
* # *
There is no rule of justice or equity
whereby the man who has invested his life’s
savings in a selection, or an allotment, paid
for at its. full market value, and who toils
hard for 10 or 12 hours a day at productive,
or even unproductive, labour, should have
his property confiscated in order that the
man who has invested his money in a pawn-
shop, or a 00 per cent, money-lending busi-
ness, or a gin-shanty, should go free. Neither
is there any special nobility or grandeur
about the publican, or the hanker, or the
commission agent, money-lender, jeweller,to-
bacconist, bookmaker, pawnbroker, butcher,
importer, dog-fancier, editor, or any other
city man that he should be exempt from tax-
ation while the farmer is not. The latter is,
without exception, the most valuable mem-
ber of the community. In a land where the
city population is already too large, the idea
of offering special inducements to men to
further overcrowd the bloated metropolis by
offering them special exemptions at the cost
of the agriculturist is suicidal folly. Agri-
culture is the one industry above all others
which should not he penalised. It is the
most toilsome and —except in the immediate
vicinity of the cities—about the least remu-
nerative of pursuits. All over the vast,
drought-haunted interior the Single-tax
policy means hardship, if not ruin, to the
one class which is essential, not only to the
well-being, hut to the absolute existence of
the State.
« * #
The individual whom the Land-taxer, as
distinguished from the Single-taxer, wants
to reach is the large landholder, the absentee
who draws rents and spends them abroad,
the speculator who blocks settlement by
holding large areas of land out of cultivation
while waiting for a rise, and the land-boom
generation generally. The farmer who owns
land, worth in its unimproved state, say,
£3OO or less, and who cultivates his own
patch of soil, deserves to be taxed on the
lowest scale. The cultivator with a larger
area may fairly be taxed in a steadily-in-
creasing ratio, because it should be the policy
of the State to encourage a race of small holders
and to discourage the creation of large farms
worked by a servile race of hired labourers.
A still heavier duty should be levied on the
individual who holds land not for his own
cultivation, but to he rented to cultivators ;
in fact, the object of the State should he to
gradually tax this species of landholding
middleman out of existence, as one who
serves no useful purpose and tends to per-
petuate the worst evils of British squire-
archy. And a heavier impost still should be
put on the head of the landholder whose
property is neither let nor cultivated—the
boomer who holds the earth’s surface merely
to sell at a profit, while he blocks settle-
ment and retards the progress of agriculture,
and drives the genuine settler into the
remote interior, far from railways, markets,
sea-ports, and civilisation generally. The
land - speculator, in fact, like the other
variety of landlord, should be taxed out of
existence, only he should be abolished a
little faster even than his congener. And,
over and above all other imposts, a heavy
absentee tax should he levied to more
quickly obliterate the land holder who, in
addition to his other sins, spends his rents
and profits in a foreign land. However had
the ordinary landlord or speculator may be,
the absentee landlord or speculator is many
degrees worse.
# # •
The same rule applies to the pastoralist
and the city landholder. The pastoralist is
almost as essential as the agricul-
turist. If he is a freeholder who works
entirely on his own account ho should bo
lightly taxed up to a cerium acreage, or
rather value—sufficient for the maintenance
of himself and family. Beyond that limit',
when he begins to developo into a mighty
wool or beef monarch—into ah incipient
Tyson or Samuel Wilson or Baronet
Clarke —the tax should steadily increase,
its object being to make room for many
small pastoralists" but to render the bloated
squatter, who eats up his smaller neighbours,
an impossibility. As for the station-owner
who does not work on his own account —the
individual or bank or loan and mortgage cor-
poration that owns many stations and runs
them on the hire or dummy system —he also
should be taxed to extinction. Similarly the city
man who owns and occupies his own freehold
should be let off lightly up to a certain limit
—say, £3OO also—and after that be taxed on
a steadily ascending scale. And here also
the object of the law should be to obliterate
the landlord—the man who holds land for
lotting purposes and for the unearned incre-
ment —and he also should be taxed on such a
scale that he will gradually fade into oblivion,
and if he is an absentee bis tax should be so
much the heavier that the oblivion may be
all the sooner arrived at.
* * *
The difference between this policy and
that of the Single-tax party lies in the fact
that the former is directed almost entirely at
the unproductive classes of the community.
Moreover the Land-tax party recognises no
special advantage about the mere fact of
having only one tax, any more than it recog-
nises the blessedness of having only one boot
or one article of diet. Also, it sees that the
lop-sided policy of Henry George’s disciples
will create no new industry, and build up
no manufactures or other sources of pros-
perity, and that a nation cannot live
by one fad alone. So far ns the Single-
tax gospel ks directed ngainst tire useless
monopolist it is altogether 'commciidahlb.
The landlord and the land-boomer arc
loafers, parasites, and burdens on the com-
munity at and they may fairly be
treated as public evils. But the selector
who struggles to raise a crop in the face of
droughts and caterpillars and scorching
summer suns, on a hundred or two hundred
inhospitable acres, should rather be subsi-
dised out of the proceeds of a duty upon
Single-tax politicians than be further bur-
dened that they may go free.
The British Humourists.
The other day, at Chippendale, Sydney, a cer-
tain Rev. T. Pare delivered a lecture on “ The
Religions Humourist, or the Man who can
Laugh as well as Pray.” There was internal
evidence in the lecture that the Rev. Park is
English, and naturally enough he chose, as his
principal example of the religious humourist, an
Englishman—the late Mr. Spurgeon, of the
“Tabernacle.” The address was alleged to be
interesting in a certain massive fashion of its
own, but it did little to unsettle the ancient
belief that the average pietist is pious chiefly
because there is no vestige of humoUr in his
soul, and that his sombre-tailed Sunday coat is
the outward evidence of his inward solemnity.
If the so-called religious man were a humourist
he would have to sit down somewdierejfon a
retired doorstep on his way to church and shriek
hilariously at his own murky get-up, and his
large boots—he wears them large because it is
worldly to have tight boots on a .Sunday;
and his umbrella—he carries an umbrella
because it is sinful to go out with a
stick on the Day of Rest; and the high
hat under which be swelters because a
low hat is the sign of the unregenerate soul.
And he would also cacchiuate at times over the
obsolete clerical vocabulary which is used in
the church and nowhere else —that vocabulary
according to which a thing is never “ given ”
but is always “vouchsafed,”and the “brother”
wlio falls over a bucket left on a stair is under-
stood to be “chastened;” and he would be
driven to protest against the clerical voice
which always seems to arise from a damp
cassock in the throat or a surplice in the
•esophagus. Even the bright example of
Spurgeon, as a Briton and a humourist, cannot
persuade The Bulletin that the religious
humourist isn’t a myth.
* # #
The Englishman, in fact, whether religious or
not, is not built for humour. There are
English humourists, but they are not of the
humorous variety, and their mirth is like
unto one ant in the centre of a devastated land.
Spurgeon was a humourist of this variety, and
—like all other English parsonical funny men—
it was always possible to tell when he made
a joke by the change in his voice and the
sudden stoppage that followed to give the
audience time to laugh. But his hilarity didn’t
look well in print. The most shriekingly funny
thing in his funniest book reads thus : “He
that plods on the clods on rods on rods will
turn off the sods while laziness nods.” This is
the archaic variety of joke—the lineal descen-
dant of the tin that was tied by the cave man to
the tail of the original seed dog of the earth.
But the writer has heard an agricultural audi-
ence yell at that awful statement. It was a
kind of humour that suited the British intelli-
gence.
• « #
What is there in all the wide world that is
sadder than the Anglo-Saxon funny man ?
Toole, a more or less Irish gentleman whose
humour has been carefully adapted to cockney
tastes, is the living symbol of the whole race,
and Toole’s overflowing merriment consisted,
all his life, in that weary joke about how ho
was alleged—some time in the Dark Ages—to
have gone into a draper’s shop and aggressively
demanded a pound of nails—or something to
that effect. Ho never really did it, but he
lived and prospered on the assumption that he
once asked a draper for that pound of nails or
some other variety of hardware, and then
waited with a vacant stare for the goods to he
forthcoming. The rest of his wild hilarity
which was intended principally to lead up to
and accentuate .■mu] throw new light upon (lie
Itegend concerning the pound of nails or what-
ever it was -consisted mainly of a pair ot
bulgy pants, a loose smile which, through in-
cessant use, had bagged out the skin of his
lower face, and a curious backward jerk of the
thumb. The newer or Gaiety burlesque variety
of humourist is funny because be pulls out
bis checks at certain junctures as if a
turnip had been violently driven into his
mouth, and walks with great velocity off
the stage and back again, and heaves his
legs recklessly in the air, and sometimes
he takes off Ids hat to a lady at the back
of bis head instead of the front. Also, he has a
certain coster-song which is supposed to be too
joyful for expression because there is no “ h ”
in it anywhere, and it contains some statements
about a small boy who drinks “ four-’arf ” in
the East End of London. This song is his sub-
stitute for the TooLE-esque legend concerning
the pound of nails that were truculently de-
manded from the drapery man, and at least a
dozen dreary individuals have built up a repu-
tation for frantic comedy by as many separate
variations of the small boy who drinks “ four-
’arf.” Even the mention of this liquor is Under-
stood to be distinctly comic simply because it is
called “ ’arf.”
* * *
Apart from the “four-arf” and the other
species of large and small costermonger, the
British humour of the present day consists
largely of legs and a turning up of the eyes to
the gallery (the mother-in-law and the curate
who says “damn ” being, for the moment, under
a cloud). “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ” is, in itself,
no more amusing than the first chapter of
Genesis, but it is mostly sung by short skirted
females Who throw their hoofs wildly at the
stars, and it lias prospered accordingly. Terry,
the latest imported funny fan aft. Wits 4 failure
because thebe Were no legs and no “ fo'ur-’arf ”
in his discourse, and b‘e had hardly anything to
'(MM iii their steadthe dress-circle crowd
Went to see him because he was Terry, but the
gods', who judge only by results, consistently
stayed away when they found that the coster-
monger was left out.
# * #
Still, there is one thing more depressing even
than the English comedian, and that is the
English coinio paper. Punch lived for ten
years or thereabouts upon pictures of distressed
females with crinolines —persons who couldn't
get into an omnibus because the crinoline was
too large for the door, or who had got half-way
in and stuck there, so that their crinolines
cocked up through the pressure and showed
their ankles; middle-aged, stout, flustered
persons, who were sitting on the pavement
because their copious feet were entangled in
the crinoline and they couldn’t rise, in conse-
quence of which the policemen accused them of
being drunk ; embarrassed ladies, whose crino-
lines had publicly dropped off; ladies who
couldn’t act out of cabs owing to their crino-
lines ; and other ladies whose crinolines had
rubbed against wet paint-. Then it led a pre-
carious existence for some years inore by
depicting the Setgeant-at-Anns as 4 'coekroa'cb ;
and it travelled foV half a geiietati'dn oh flic
chignon and the bustle. And when at last the
underclothing Variety of bUUionb gave out,
there was practically nothing left. Punch’s
rival, Ecv, had UeYer 'more than one joke in
its Composition, the said joke being a constant
picture of a misshapen and impossible person,
whose legs were six times too long and too
crooked for his body. And Ally Slober,
which is probably a greater favourite than
either, boldly struck a new line, and tra-
velled almost entirely on the adventures of
one imbecile, bulbous-nosed drUnk with a
bashed white hat, short, tight pants, and a
baggy umbrella tied Up with rope. This per-
son’s horrid form, drunk and falling at a new
angle every week, perpetually adorns the front
pige of the publication, while the brightest
part of the contents consists of a statement —
purporting to be made by the daughters of the
swollen horror—that he has been winking at
certain girls, or else that his mind—his mind of
all things under the canopy of heaven !—is fail-
ing rapidly. And this sepulchral concern is
about the most successful variety of English
humour in print at the present day ; the other
kind—as represented in the Pink ’Un—setting
forth that “ the Shifter” has been drunk again
and has borrowed sixpence from “Nathaniel
Gubkins,” being a bad second.
* * *
The “ comic ” paper has never flourished in
Scotland. The Scot is not funny, and he
realises the fact. He is aware that he jokes
laboriously and can’t live by humour, and bia
pride prevents him making a living by repre-
senting himself in a red-headed aspect and
drunk in a kilt on a bleak hill-side, to be the
scoff of the man further south. Therefore, the
local humour consists principally in sundry
proverbs, for local circulation only, mostly
relating to under-garments which ought to have
been washed, but weren’t, and various ancient
anecdotes about the “kirk.” There are not
many alleged comedians of Scotch origin, and
the leg-show female is few in the land. The
Irishman also doesn't take kindly to humorous
journalism, chiefly because his fun is of the un-
conscious description. Bub the Englishman,
who is sad with underdone beef and heavy with
sodden suppers and beer, persists in regarding
himself in a light and festive aspect, and when
he annexes some new country to the British
empire he blasts it with his comic paper,
and goes there with his Punch in his
carpet-bag to eat away Ids brains and
the brains of the native as well. His
humour is ingrained in his disposition,
and it is like nothing else of the same name on
this earth. One snowy night last winter, in an
English agricultural village, five young men,
inflamed by the spirit of comedy, dragged
another man out of his bed, rolled him in the
snow, rushed him through an icy pond, and
then chased him, whooping horribly, over
hedges, ditches, and snow-covered fields, until
the exhausted individual in front somehow
managed to get his head fixed between the bars
of a fence and was suffocated. The defence set


up was that the objects of the party were
purely humorous, and they got a light sentence
in consequence. This is one aspect of English
humour, and the alcoholic Sloper, and the
perspiring Mr. E. J. Lonnen, grinning
hideously and working his arms semaphore-
fashion for hours- at a stretch, are the other
aspects.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
J?earl-Divers’ “ Rheumatics.”
Dear Bulletin, — Dr. A. E. Salter, medical
officer at the Cottage Hospital, Thursday
Island, and a visiting-surgeon to the Leper
Asylum, Friday Island (N.Q.), is the author of
a recent paper, entitled “ Pearl Fishing from a
Physician’s point-of-view.” Summarising: The
sea-bottom, from the Great Barrier Reef on the
eastward, and the New Guinea coast to the
northward, is the top of a vast plateau, pierced
with crevices, gullies and ravines. The depth
on the plateau proper ranges from 8 to 10
fathoms ; in the “ holes ” it deepens to as much
as 80 fathoms. Diving is practically safe on
the former—with a careful and attentive man
as “ tender ” on the lugger. But the water-
pressure in the depths ! One result is hyper-
trophy, or overgrowth of the heart-ventricles,
due to the extra work entailed on that organ to
keep up circulation despite the pressure. The
diver experiences “ rheumatics,” as he calls the
affection. As soon as the diving-dress is re-
moved, there is often an intense tingling
or pricking pain—in some or all joints,
in some or all limbs. The cries of the sufferer
are often loud and agonising. The usual treat-
ment is to rub in various patent rheumatic
cures—laudanum has been hypodermically in-
jected ; but the best remedy is absolute I’est for
a week or two. Continued attacks of “ rheu-
matics ” may bring on “locomotor ataxy”—a
permanent disorder of the spinal cord by which
the sufferer loses control over his muscles. Dr.
Salter traces all this to the water-weight—
either directly pushing the dress against the
skin, or indirectly transmitted through the
buffer of breathed air against the skin. When
a diver comes to surface after three hours’ work
in 12 fathoms, every crease and wrinkle of his
undergarments are found deeply reproduced on
his skin. While below, too, the body is actually
reduced in bulk by the pressure, the compression
of various parts varying accordingly as they are
naturally protected —the lungs, heart, etc.,
being more compressed than the brain and
spinal cord, with the result that undue expan-
sion takes place in the capillary vessels of the
brain and spinal cord. Result : cerebral
hyperannia, accounting for the “ rheumatics ”
by the sudden re action on return to deck. In
young, strong men, with capillaries in good
order, recovery may follow on complete rest,
but the chances are in favour of relapses. Every
fimo a man goes below, he simply backs his
capillaries against the pressure of the eternal
sea. When the sea begins to win, it means to
fhe diver probable loss of sight and hearing,
and almost certain death—either sudden release
by heart-failure, or a slow death from locomotor-
ataxy. Corollary : compulsion to deep-water
diving is wicked and criminal ; voluntary deep-
water diving is evidence of suicidal insanity.—
Yours, S.G;.
«.
The Member for Smith’s Curse.
“Hugh Macdonald ” writes to The Bulletin
as follows :
Bear Bui.lk.tin, —Your (list leader in last week’s issue
■ather surprised mo. Surely (he ex is: once of the loud
and ungrammatical member for Smith s Curse is scarcely
sufficient justification for your advocacy of the retention
of an Upper House, either elective or otherwise. The
largely advertised popular tradesman, petty lawyer, or
‘and and cattle jobber ” is doubtless a curse in a national
legislative assembly (the Lower House will always be to
some extent national in character), but would it not be
infinitely better to limit this individual’s sphere of opera-
tions by restricting him to a parochial boundary rather
than by adding to the length of his tether-rope, make it
necessary to retain a complex double-barrelled legislature?
You have always hitherto advocated a measure of local
government and one national legislative chamber. Your
change of attitude appears inconsistent and unwarranted,
and savours of centralisation. Why not let the member for
Smith’s Curse inflict himself upon Smith’s Curse only by
giving to that locality the power to settle all matters
within the capacity of the “ butcher with the bloodstained
leg of mutton” to deal with, either in a municipal or
shire or county council? All matters of a really national
character to be dealt with by the one national legislative
chamber in which the purely parochial politician would
be useless, and into which he would not be put, because
the “roads and bridges” being engineered locally his
occupation, like Othello’s, would be gone. You seem to
be throwing Local Government overboard altogether, and
in advocating two chambers simply banding the strings of
the national purse to Sydney wire-pullers. Must the
whole revenue of N.S. Wales be sent to Sydney that pick-
ings and perquisites may he concentrated there? The
Smith’s Curse member is truly a nuisance everywhere
outside the range of his personal popularity, but why not
curtail rather than enlarge bis field of operations? And
why deny to the “ country ” its just meed of local govern-
ment to fatten the already overgrown city of centralisa-
tion? Please explain.
To this The Bulletin explains that, in the first
place, it has not “ always advocated a measure
of Local Government and one national legisla-
tive chamber.” But for years past it has advo-
cated Local Government and two national
legislative chambers, just as it does now.
Therefore,, it hasn’t changed its attitude.
Secondly, the parochial member can’t be kept
within his own boundary. Victoria has about
the best Local Government system in Australia,
and the Assembly is full of parish politicians
who were sent there to get railways and big
subsidies out of the national revenue for the
local bodies, which find it easier fco> beg
assistance from the Ti’easury than to tax their
own constituents. In fact, the roads and bridges
member is more in evidence in Victoria than in
N.S. Wales, simply because the shire councils
act as permanent organised committees to make
his calling and re-election sure. The Bulletin
advocates the widest and most complete system
of Local Government which can be constructed,
and two national chambers (the upper elected
by the whole country voting as one constituency)
with practically equal powers. Otherwise, so
far as it can see, Thomas Bent, the vociferous
market-gardener from Brighton, will become
the typical legislator of Australia, and the
Local Government bodies will be his principal
support.
♦
Says that man of ornate platitudes, G. H,
Reid, of New South Wales :
Until the people of this country have a fair, well-
balanced and moderate system of taxation they will never
be thoroughly alive to their responsibilities.
Anyone can turn off this sort of elevated bosh
by the cubic mile. Until the people of New
South Wales, proud of their magnificent heri-
tage under the noble British Constitution,
are awakened to a deep and serious realisation
of the responsibilities of their position as
factors in the great scheme of civilisation they
will never fully understand the solemn weighti-
ness of the inheritance which has been entrusted
to their care. Until the inhabitants of the pro-
vince fall downstairs they won’t get their hair
cut. Also, until they read the second chapter
of Exodus right through while standing on
their heads at midnight on the grave of an un-
baptised child, the second day after full-moon,
provided it falls on the third Friday in the
month, they can’t possibly realise why it is
that colonial beer with six plugs of had tobacco
nailed on the inside of the cask should sell at
threepence a glass, seeing that there is no im-
mediate demand for oil-paintings and bank
interest has gone up. All which statements
mean exactly the same thing as Mr. Reid’s
statement—that is to say, they don’t mean any-
thing in particular. They only sound hollow
and mysterious, like someone banging on an
empty sepulchre with the thigh-bone of a dog.
♦
Manager Howell, in answer to a deputation
representing the Broken Hill unemployed, gave
a fairly straightforward statement of the posi-
tion. “He could not hold out any hopes of
employment for a number of men, and even if
men were required, few of the unemployed
would be suitable.” A good many of the
Broken Hill unemployed, it may be remarked,
have already suffered more or less from lead-
poisoning in the mines, and as their efficiency
has been impaired by the disease it is unreason-
able to expect a co. worked on honest commer-
cial principles to incur a loss by employing
them. These men are done with—used
up, played-out—mere sucked oranges. Their
purpose in the general scheme of things has
been served, and they are simply not wanted.
They ought to crawl away and cease troubling
co.’s which have dividends and other business
to attend to. They might be of some use in
case of a strike, as starving men are wanted
then, but as there is no strike on hand just
now, hungry incapables are not required.
—i—
Little Dr, Maloney, M.L.A., who can be very
rational, as well as otherwise, in his parlia-
mentary ideas, put an awkward question to
Premier Patterson the other afternoon, “If,
viewing the impossibility of a person without
means carrying on an action similar to the
Speight v. Syme case, on account of its enor-
mous expense, the Government would take into
consideration the necessity for introducing
legislation to reduce the cost of legal proceed-
ings, so as to enable all persons to obtain
justice?” In a general way, Maloney’s demo-
cratic outbreaks are brushed aside with a dis-
play of exaggerated scorn, but this time nobody
laughed. The great protected swindle of the
Law is too glaring a public grievance for even
the Vic. Assembly to pretend that it doesn’t
exist. Therefore, Premier Patterson replied
to the pugnacious little doctor by talking quite
beside the point. “If the law were made free
to litigants it would not mean retrenchment,”
said Patterson, “ and he failed to see the
advantage of transferring the cost of such a
case as was mentioned to the general public.
With such solemn drivel as (his do “ thinkers
of the Patterson stamp drown large questions.
The honourable gentleman was neither asked to
institute free litigation, nor to place the public
exchequer at David Same’s disposal, in order
that libel-actions may have no end. Practically,
he was asked whether an honest Government
could not honestly reduce the scale of legal
charges, and simplify legal procedure,
and also compel cases to be narrowed
down to certain vital issues. As he could not
raise the “cheek” necessary for denying a
Government’s power to do these things, he was
pleased to assume that his Government was
being worried to do things quite different, and
“ was afraid he could not give a favourable
reply to the question.”
♦
Parson Tucker, of Melbourne, in a recent
oration: —•
Christ was a model labourer, who never flung down
His saw and plane at the stroke of five, or the moment
the ruddy sun touched the sharp ridge of Nazareth’s
ancestral hills.
This is the sort of dismal nonsense that passes
for logic with the “ right-thinking person.”
Yet it isn’t logic ; it is only unsupported asser-
tion uttered in a sepulchral voice, which makes
it pass for Scriptural truth, and it runs just the
same chance of being a lie as the assertion that
everybody in Jupiter is named J. Smith. If
Parson Tucker can produce any shadow
of reliable evidence that the Carpenter’s Son
didn’t cease work at half-past four regularly, or
that he didn’t habitually leave off at four
o’clock, at least one of The Bulletin staff will at
once go out as a missionary to Central China.
Further, if Mr. Tucker can produce any
genuine proof that the Reformer of Nazareth
didn’t usually stop work every day at three,
the deputy-assistant-sub-editor of this paper
will become a Salvation Army preacher and
hold forth at street corners ; also, how can the
same good but reckless man (meaning thereby,
of course. Pastor Tucker) show, by any legal
evidence, that Christ was ever a carpenter at
all ? Furthermore, a carpenter doesn’t “fling
down ” his saw when he knocks off work, any
more than a preacher flings his sermon on the
floor when he has finished writing it, or a
captain throws his sextant overboard when he
has taken an observation; and five didn’t
strike in these days, in any case ; and the hills
of Nazareth are rounded rather than sharp, so
that the whole burst of eloquence is altogether
gone wrong. By the way, just as a matter of
curiosity, will Mr. Tucker, as he seems to
know all about it, kindly state at what hour
the Carpenter’s Son did knock off in Galilee ?
At Sydney last Friday, a common and some-
what abusive person named M‘Namara re-
ceived, not deliberately and at the behest of a
Judge and jury, but summarily, by order of a
couple of common beaks, 20 lashes for throwing
stones at a lady. According to the official
story he was practically sober at the time of
the occurrence, and the stones were a wanton
and absolutely gratuitous outrage. Somehow
or other it always happens that the man
arrested for being drunk is, according to official
testimony, blindly and horribly drunk, but the
man arrested for a crime is invariably sober and
so far responsible for his actions as not to admit
of the imputed charge dwindling into a mere
affair of beery and unpremeditated riot. We
doubt if anyone can recollect a case in Australia
when a homicide, for instance, was not, accord-
ing to police testimony, sober enough to fully
understand the nature of his actions, no matter
how much drink he had swallowed; but
there are plenty of cases when a man
has been raging drunk on two half-pints of
beer, provided no charge could be brought
against him save that of being drunk. In
the present case it appears that M‘Namara
was strictly sober after drinking hard for two
days, and, therefore, being fully responsible for
his actions, he was flogged. Like everyone
else who comes to the triangles, he w-as a com-
mon person in working clothes. The other
brand of ruffian never gets there —and never
will, even when a number of workmen, tired
of this monotonous state of things, form a
vigilance society to watch the eyeglassed prowler
in tan-boots, and turn him over to the police
whenever he commits a floggable offence. The
present writer has seen a certain very expensive
and well-connected dude take possession of a
suburban ferry-boat, on two Saturday Mights,
and fill it with language which, if used by a
chimney-sweep, would be good for 20 lashes in
any Sydney police-court. But that offender
will never be flogged. The uniform of his class
forbids. The lash is for Moleskin, not for
Broadcloth.
♦
Mr. C. E. Jeanneret, M.L.A. (N.S. Wales),
climbing on to the roof of his house to enable
his wife to “ truthfully ” tell an inquiring pro-
cess-server that he was not in, represents a
fairly-equipped survival of the casuistry of
lying. “You desire to see M. Rochefort?
Well, sir, M. Rochefort is not here,” an-
nounced the truthful Cardinal. “ I said you
were not here,” the great casuist observed,
turning into the apartment and confronting M.
Rochefort, and while uttering the word
“ here ” he pressed his right foot on the carpet.
“ I am only obliged to tell the truth,” said
another subtle schoolman, “ when the inquirer
has a right to demand it. If I judge that the in-
quirer has not a right to demand, I am not bound
to supply truth.” Jeannbret’s contention was,
of course, that the inquirers bad no claim, legal
or otherwise, upon him. “I’m not bound to
tell the truth at all times,” said sturdy Dr.
Johnson. “If a woman escapes from a mur-
derer and I, knowing where she hides, am
asked by the murderer for the information,
shall I tell him ? I’ll lie to him,” concludes the
Doctor. “ What should I do iu such circum-
stances ?” asks the late Newman. “Lie? No;
I’d knock the murderer down and call for the
police.” But Dr. Newman was then young;
and besides a man might be where no police
were available. Putting all things together,
Jeanneret making a dash for the roof to avoid
countenancing a lie is an interesting spectacle.
In the eyes of British-Australian Justice
the one thing more sacred than Property is Land-
lordism. Last week, in Sydney, two people who
had left one Reid’s house owing two weeks’ rent
and taking with them a counterpane, basin and
towel belonging to the landlord, were ordered to
pay in all £2 ; or in default three weeks’ gaol.
Then one O’Donnell, accused of removing his own
furniture while two weeks’ rent in arrear from a
house the rent of which was !*s. per week, was
ordered to pay .£l5 with 6s. 2d. costs, or six
months gaol !
The Voice of Australia.
( A Reply to the Imperial Federation League.)
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Under the Grown ! do you cry, my friend ?
Nay ; our toil shall have nobler end.
A day shall come, and its dawn is near,
When Southern throats, with one mighty cheer,
Shall voice to the world in a thunder-tone :
‘ We are lords of ourselves, and our land is our
’ own !■”
Our fathers came of the English race !
They did, and now they have found their place;
But one English way hath from them remained,
For we still shall keep what their right hand
gained,
And the sons shall reap what their sires have
sown—-
We are lords of ourselves, and our land is our
own !
But the Mother-land , whose sons ye were /
We know her, but light is our love of her.
Small honour have we for the mother’s name,
Who stained our birth with the brand of shame.
We" were flesh of her flesh, and hone of her
hone :
We are lords of ourselves, and our land is our
own !-
Would ye break away from the British Grown .?
That with us is a thing of ill-renown,
For, war-begotten, each gem it bore
Is a crystal born of a sea of gore,
And the chief we want is no nerveless drone.
We are lords of ourselves, and our laud is our
own !
Friend, your boasted “ kinship’s silken hand”
Is naught more true than a rope of sand.
Must the South-laud cling to the North-land
old?
Must life blood-warm mate with death corpse-
cold ?
Must the future aye for the past make moan ?
We are lords of ourselves, and our land is our
own !
Under the Grown let us all join still !
Kay : “ Ours for Us !” is the people’s will.
Let Britain weep, if she will, our loss,
As we raise the flag of the Southern Cross.
Our choice is made ; we will stand alone—
We are lords of ourselves, and our land is our
own !
STEELE GREY.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“W. Parr ” (Richmond): You “can’t make up
your mind.” Well, perdition is a state in which the lost
soul sits on a cold, grey cloud and can’t make up its mind
to all eternity.... “ W. 8.” (Wagga): Verse received. You
ask:—
“Have you watched the streamlet flowing
As it wends its pebbly way,” &c., &c. ?
We have. We were taking an intoxicated friend home
that night, and as we propped him over the rustic bridge
we noticed the streamlet flowing all right. We had for-
gotten the circumstance, though, till you mentioned it.
... “Genesis” ; “ Our respected townsman ”is the curse
of Australia ... “Constant Reader” (Carlton): Can't tell
you. He doesn’t know for certain himself “ One and
All” (Cobar): Thanks “Belfastman ” : Some of your
figures are fearfully and wonderfully irrelevant. Will ex-
amine the remainder carefully “ G.” (Murrumbidgee):
Grievance too loose and disjointed for ordinary use
“J.S.": Under the system of elected Ministries—instead
of Party Government—it wouldn’t matter a straw if a
Parliamentary majority “blocked the Government’s pro-
posals.” The Government wouldn’t make proposals. In
its capacity as a Government it would only carry out the
work of the departments under Parliamentary direction;
but Ministers, in their private capacities, would bring in
any measures they liked, and they would be accepted or
rejected as the Legislature saw fit. The Government
wouldn’t “have to resign” if Parliament disap-
proved of its ideas; it would simply have to carry
out the ideas of Parliament. “Ararat” (Vic.); You
are afflicted with morbid circumlocution in the
polysyllable and inflation of the vocabulary
“ S.G.” : The meditations of a haggard old maid are, in
other words, the wail of a free woman, because she hasn’t
a man on the premises to beat her and make her clean
his boots. It is always a man who writes the old maid’s
lament, by the way—a man who is moved to pity over
the griefs of some woman who might have been blessed
with his boots to clean, and have heard him snore in the
night.. .“Hockley”; Call in six weeks,"or three years,
or thereabouts ...“Oblivion”: Sentiment noble; metre
Hike a fire in a madhouse with all the patients rushing
for the door, or a sacred elephant charging a bell-factory,
or the end of the world, or anything .. “Sol Odens”;
An Australian Church with a reformed prayer-book
isn’t much. A Church with a reformed Bible and a
lot of reformed Christians is what is wanted...
“C.H.” (Helensburgh): We know nothing of either of
them “Tuarangi ” (Maoriland): Will probably use
“B. Graham” (Park St.): A noble sentiment, only lame
on both feet. The noblest sentiment isn’t publishable
unless decently written “A. Rae ” : The Bulletin, in
calling for a reformed Second Chamber, hasn’t ceased for
a moment to advocate Local Government. Only it sees,
in Victoria, Queensland, and Maoriland, that Local
Government doesn’t diminish the roads and bridges poli-
tician in the slightest degree, therefore it regards both
reforms as essential .“E.J.” (Mt. Bruno, Vic.): Thanks....
“N.” (Crookwell, N.S.W.): The doggerel which rhymes
“sport” with “caught” is as bad as its logic, that
argues that a man who kills for pleasure must necessarily
be brave in the presence of real danger. Some brutes
are very brave, but cold-blooded brutality is often the
twin-brother of cowardice “Coolongolook ” (N.S.W.);
The stout girl has as much right to play football, in a
scanty costume, with two men—happy men ! —as you have
to spell verandah “ varander;” each is an individual
exercise of personal freedom in this free country...
“H. 8.”: The plot, being overdone, of course fails, and
spoils the story... “Subscriber” (Sydney); Fred Mar-
shall appeared as “Quilp” on the “christening” night
of old Sydney Gaiety Theatre, then just transformed from
the old “ Guild Hall,” Castlereagh-street, on Boxing-
Night, ’BO.. . “ Albatross ” : One or two specks of bush
humour in a drayload of waste don’t make a story.
That’s your “Only Son.” “ Waimak ”: Reconstructed.
“I Pagliaccio ” (Forbes, N.S.W.): The makings
of a telling yarn “A.M.J.”: “Why did the late
vice-regal official leave Queensland?” Haven’t the
slightest idea “A. 0.”: No doubt De Lacy Evans,
the woman-man, who married thrice, told her wives
beforehand. Many women would rather marry a woman
—with money “D.8.R.”: Neither quite suitable, as
both touch old themes. Try something else... “Zeta.”:
Its strangely English flavour alone makes it unacceptable.
Not only necessary to be original; you must seem ori-
ginal “ Waihoa ” : Will use “Number Three,” any-
how... “ H.L.E.” (Y.): “T.T.” and “B. of 8.Q.” both
good “ Christian K.” : Yes, it has struck us—and lots
of other people. For, has not a dramatist written; “ You
do not advance us wages—but we advance you work.”..,
“ Walter J. H.” (Melb.): Glad to hear from you again....
“ Whittan ”; It would he unfair. Beauty is omnipotent
“ T. 0.8.”: Impossible subject . “Married Woman ”
You hold your husband’s deposit-receipt, unendorsed, and
he is in England. If the bank paid you, it would still be
liable to your husbrnd for the amount to credit of his
name “ W. Christian” (Sydney): Leave the church-
men to rage furiously about the Kilburn Sisterhood. ..
"Francis L.”: Well, they look bona-fide as compared
with the others—“L.L.C.”: It amounts to this ; No-
body “ inherits ” actual consumption ; but many inherit
delicate tissues wherein phthisis-germs find a congenial
resting-place. So it practically amounts to the same
thing “C. Mendin’’: Such things have occurred before
now, when the sacrifice of life has been voluntary. When
the Quetta struck in Torres Straits and tore out half her
bottom the engineers on deck to a man rushed below and
perished. . .“Aberdeen”: A Scotch accent in a “ mon ”
is no particular ornament; but in a woman, especially a
pretty woman, it is inexpressibly charming. That is all
we have to say.. . “ Shadow ”: You should always let us
into such secrets. Who was “Outicler?” We detest
printing mysteries—and it’s an expensive game some-
times, by the way “Little Brown Jug”: Too girly-
girly. It should suit a “Young Ladies’ ” paper..
“M. O’S.” (0.): Your deceased young friend’s book of
poems is only notable as a literary monstrosity. As such
it will sell, but not otherwise “C. Van Kampfeh ” :
The Northern Territory must never be sold to England.
If to England, why not to Russia ? “ Bohemian ” : Too
late. Subject dead “Barker”: Ye?, he’s a straight-
man. But get written undertaking from him as a matter
of business “C.H.E.”: Pithy, but ....“G.H.M.”:
They are in type .. “ Jindobarrie ” (Brisbane, Q.): Mere
word-puns are the toadstools of marshy brains. A pun
needs the illumination of wit to become good tender .
“J.R.” yYou believe in “regular soldiers” as against
“amateur swashbucklers.” For Australian purposes,
anyhow, The Bulletin believes only in the purely
defensive volunteer—the citizen-soldier, as against
the regular swashbuckler.. X..“ Jerks ” (Jugiong,
N.S.W.): Readers might misunderstand the old lady’s
colloquialisms “Junee” (N.S.W.): Apparently they
don’t know everything down in a town where they
advertise that the’Mayor sells “ backing powder,” “ man-
derines,” and “beacon,” and the poundkeeper sheds his
letters in “aditional,” “padock,” &c “C.J.”: “An
Inspiration a tame story of “ the horrors.” Poet yarn
an abortive burlesque rhapsody. . .“Celor et audax ” :
Your objection to puttees evidently arises from your
private contempt for your miserable calves. This office
only requires puttees for its brains, and takes no stock in
soldier-millinery “W.M.S.” (Tamworth, N.S.W.);
Worth something less than nothing “Cowcatcher";
We daren’t risk even five lines of your doggerel...
“Ben Sun”: Many good points about the “Dignity
of Toil.” Will consider further.. .. “T.J.8.” (Forbes):
Not a story; only a bald cow-stealing report
“Albatross”: Good fable for a religious periodical.
Probably the coincidences were invented afterwards...,
“Authentic” says that the inscription (referred to in a
recent issue) on a headstone in the Cowra (N.S.W.)
cemetery is not “ Mr.” &0., but “Robert Neil M'Uiavmid,
Esq., J.P.” “Julia O’Brien” (Melbourne); Probably,
no by-law was ever invented that did not cruelly oppress
some individual. . “J.C.W.” (Condobolin, N.S.W.); A
matter for the police, if true “ Wyben ” (Gulf of
Carpentaria): The 3298th variant of the story
“N.W.8.”:
Your pretty little triolet
Is far too frail to live ;
We slobber things like that, and yet
No pretty little triolet
Of ours has caused us to forget
How others should forgive
Your pretty little triolet
Is far too frail to live.
.. “M‘M‘G.”: “ Bounzewell’s Soul” laboriously far-
fetched “ Sydney Cove ” (Euroa, Vic.): No demand for
hardshell bunyip yarns.
The champion Adelaide “bummer —a
match-seller—holds almost the highest British
diplomas.


Fitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES.
5 - per Pair.
Xbe celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by tbe Faculty, 10 0 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «Sc ROBERTS,
Jkwkllkry Showrooms,
tS HUNTER STREET, SVDNEV.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A GS-oocl and Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
gh
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
•mvrkm; (shiiwuiuii.
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer. better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our iName and Trade Mark round each bundle. ' ,
*a V •
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Uatv Majesty's “M’liss.”
■Piujatue Royal “ Rel, the Romany.”
Lyceum “ Hepita.”
UllimKMf. Walter Bentley.
SCHOOL of Arts Steens.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
Princess's Italian Opera ami Ballet.
Alhambra “Muldoon’s Picnic.”
Fillis’s Circus.
That old-time favourite, Signora Majercmi’
re appeared at Sydney Opera" House for two
nights last week in “ Jealousy,” a drama which
she and her lamented husband made famous years
ago. The Signora’s voice is not yet fully restored,
and there is a curious tremble in it at times, but
her acting is as fine as ever, and Time has dealt
most kindly with her appearance. “Jealousy”
is an attractive drama, though over-full of
dukes and so on. It begins with the marriage
of an abashed and somewhat gawky Italian noble-
man to a girl, who regards and treats him as an
agricultural clodhopper. It tells further how she
flirted perilously with another man, and how the
slow', dull volcano of a husband flamed up at last,
and killed his rival. And for the rest, it shows
how the husband ceased to be a clodhopper, and
how his anguished wife walked after him on her
hands and knees all through two long acts and
wanted to be forgiven, w'hile he jibed at her’
misery.
• • •
Signoi 1 Majeroni used to put some very
fine acting into this part, and Mario Majeroni—
who bears a marvellous stage semblance to his
father—though he lagged a good deal in the first
two acts, showed much tragic ability towards the
end. George Majeroni, as “the other fellow,”
was killed too soon to leave much impression
behind him, but still his little part was done well.
Miss Bensusan, the anguished w r ife on all fours,
did her share of the work in a pretty, though
rather nerveless fashion, and the mighty voice of
the handsome Augustus Glover, a gentleman who
might advantageously be hired to blow down
fortifications with hia yell, was heard at frequent
intervals.
** * *
Sydney Royal continues to be afflicted
with many vicissitudes of fortune, and its horos-
cope consists of a few traces of fat and large and
permanent deposits of lean. (The above figure of
speech is copyright.) “Belphegor, the Mounte-
bank ” promises to be a particularly lean and un-
promising circumstance, and if it continues for
any length of time, the bony skeleton of despair
will begin to pervade the big staircase and to drag
his fleshless feet over the premises generally.
“Belphegor ” is not a cheerful drama in any sense
of the term, and even the good work which is put
into it by Dampier, Miss Blanche Lewis, and that
interesting child actress, Gertie Fraser, can’t
make it a piece which a depressed citizen would
want to see. But for the “ East Lynne ” variety
of female, who loves to weep dismally into a
pocket-handkerchief, it can be cordially recom-
mended. There is much chaste and interesting
miea y in it, and many fine specimens of woe, and .
in all the big cast there is not one person who
looks really and truly happy for a single instant—
unless it be Zephyrina, the operatic lady, and even
she is uncertain and transitory here below.
*# » »
The old familiar “Silver King” wa*
staged on Saturday at Sydney Criterion. Waite 1
Bentley makes a good king, the only trace of
weakness being in his drunk in Act I. The
drunk seems to suffer a little from lack of rehear-
sal, and hasn’t the good old whisky aroma which
characterises the drunks of other silver kings The
Bulletin knows of. But apart from this, Bent-
lev’s silver potentate is a reliable performance, and
when he comes back from Nevada, in the fur over-
coat and the long boots which every silver king
returns in, it is evident that the audience is with
him. Lachlan McGowan’s Jaikes, and Frank
Cates’ Spider, are two meritorious performances,
Jaikes being crinkled and wildlyhumorous, and the
Spider being by far the best thing Cates has done
for the last two years or more. Mr. Stoneham,
marine-store dealer, is not too frowsy but just frowsy
enough, and his Hebraic dealer in old iron is a
bright and remembersome character. The rest of
the big cast, excepting Bessie Young, the brilliant
infant who plays the part of Cissy Denver, is
pretty much one dead level of mediocrity with
nobody in it who has capacity enough to be good,
or originality enough to be amusingly bad. Also,
on the first night the voice of the prompter was
distressingly audible in the land, and the scene-
shifting was arranged in a new fashion, whereby a
portion of the London railway-station got stranded
somehow in a country lane where it had no busi-
ness to be.
»» * *
“ Struck Oil,” at Sydney Lyceum, is to
be replaced some time in the early future by
“ M’liss,” formerly played in Australia by Carrie
Swain. On that occasion the unkempt maiden of
Red Gulch was mixed up with Gabriel Conroy
and the Outcasts of Poker Flat, and other dusty
denizens of the sierras, and Jack Hamlin was
understood to cruise, in a confused fashion,
around the bunker of the drama, and John
Oakhurst was oh deck iu a vague and in-
determinate sort of way, and the Luck of
Roaring Camp was about promiscuously, also
the Man from Solano. This time, The Bulletin
hopes to find “ M’liss ” in a less confused form, as
the girl that Bret Harte painted her, with the
dust of Red Gulch on her naked feet, and old
Bummer Smith drinking aimlessly in the middle
distance.
** # »
The Steens one day last week gathered up
their show and left—along with Travers Vain, the
man in the brown dress-clothes—for India. Their
programme grew very melancholy in its latter
days. Many of the feats performed were wonder-
ful enough, like the fly which got inside the
amber, but the fly in the amber gets wearisome
when it is looked at hard for two consecutive
hours, and the Steens did likewise. It is necessary
to be amusing as well us wonderful. About the
strangest thing we can think of at the moment
is the way a cut worm will start off alive in two
different directions, but anyone who billed that
severed worm to appear on the stage as a show
would find a considerable falling-off in the takings
ou the second night.
* He *
“ The Mountebanks ” had the best of the
odds at Sydney Lyceum in a week of frequent
changes—the even tenor of their run was merely
punctuated with one-night revivals of “La
Cigale,’’ “Old Guard,” and “Vicar of Bray.”
“Tiro Mountebanks” was up on Saturday night,
when Violet Varley directed the chorus to
go and wash their pretty faces as usual
in _ the first act. How the stage would
look if those cherry - cheeked, powdery - nosed
darlings took her at her word some evening is a
matter deep conjecture! On Monday “La
Cigale went up for one night with the same
people making the same remarks. Lauri evi-
dently keeps his allusion to “troofles” iu a refri-
gerator ; and the joke of the other funny man
(Rosevear) broke out in exactly the same places.
“ Pepita,” in which Arny Leyton, a lady who has
recently arrived from ’Ohio to shake her pleated
petticoats at the Antipodean gods, cuts her first
pas seal, is announced to-night (Saturday).
m % % m
Brisbane shows are in a consumptive con-
dition. Percy St. John, who was running both
the Opera House and the Gaiety Theatre, lately
relinquished the lease of the former owing to lack
of tenants. The Gaiety has been going with
ghost-walking regularity since February, but has
now struck comparative shallows, Wilson Forbes
having taken the Optra House with a more or less
scratch company. 1
* » * *
A week of “Pagliacci” and the Ballet at,
Melb. Princess’ has strengthened the good opinion ,
formed of both these novelties on their first pro-
duction. Familiarity breeds respect for such
works of art. Leoncavallo’s opera is full of
melody, and the story—so short and close that
you can follow it line by line almost after one
reading of the book—throbs with passion. There
are no dull spaces in “Pagliacci,” no long, time-
less pieces of orchestration wearying to the unedu-
cated, no noisy choruses that produce a pain
across the temples of the gods. It is as though
the composer had boiled down and strained an
old-fashioned tragic opera into a pure jelly.
Those people, and there are many, who can't
digest heavy musical tragedies will find the
“Pagliacci ” extract a boon. Giraud, the name-
part tenor, had recovered most of his voice by
Saturday, but the vocal powers of this very
intense young man, even in their best working
order, are not likely to create a ' sensation.
His singing, anyhow, is a secondary con- :
sideration. Vivid acting is indispensable, and
Giraud comes through the histrionic ordeal
as few actors could. The one fault visible in his
enthusiastic performance is a habit of seeming to '
be “doubled up” by colic, but perhaps these
touches of colic are really touches of genius. The
tall, thin, suspicious husband of a wife who is
always slipping away to hug a fancy farmer would
naturally have a pain inside. Italia del Torre, '
the prima donna, improves much on acquaintance,
after the first shock of the discovery that she can’t
sing up to Cuttica’s forth has been got over. Some
of the Italian voices imported by Simonson during
the past few years were so good that selected com-
parisons are necessarily unfavourable to W. and
M.’s little company, as far as singing goes, ’Ade-
lina Patti, at her best, never sounded sweeter,
than Cuttica in certain familiar airs, nor would
Melba, one imagines, extinguish Australian recol-
lections of the mezzo-soprano (Tagliavia) in Simon-
sen’s first company. But, then, the Simonsen
people were, as a rule, too old, stout, short, plain,
or wooden, or all these things combined, for the
characters they played.
• • #
Signorina Del Torre has the requisite good
looks, waist-measurement, and natural intelligence ,
and a bright soprano voice that doesn’t threaten
to give anxiety to the management. Her solo and
half-share in a fetching duet with the farmer were
better sung last Saturday than on the opening i
night. Caruson, the villain of the piece, is an
established favourite ; also Frasca, the harlequin,
gets an encore for a quaint little serenade. Frasca j
is a funny tenor, a natural buffo, and when he
deputised for Giraud it was impossible to take him *
seriously. Some say that he sings through his .
nose, or like a Chinaman, but he is better described !
as singing as Muney—the comedian of Sara ‘
Bernhardt’s company—talks. Muney was the :
slave who grovelled at Sara’s feet in “Cleo- 1
patre,” and burst out in comic explosions. Frasca’s
singing is equally inhuman and explosive, yet as
the harlequin he quite fills his part.
# * *
The Blue Ballet is beginning to be
accepted for all it is worth. Presently audiences
will want this gorgeous marriage-festival repeated
iii toto before they go away, for already they have
discovered that they wish it were longer. Speak-
ing for ourself, we could sit and beam upon the -
88 girls in blue, the dimpled D’Argo, and airy
Bride Bartha, for weeks at a stretch. D’Argo
gets an enthusiastic encore now, whilst Bartha—
well, the amphitheatre on Saturday wanted to
whistle her on a third time. Who would not .
whistle for Bartha? Her pirouettes are poems;
her Moscow shrug of the shoulders is the refine- !
rnent of sauciness. In Russia the snowflakes
teach girls how to dance, and the icicles give i
them extra lessons in chastity of style. A closing <
tableau has been hitched on to “Turquoisette,”
but there is still a lack of excitement about the
finish.
* « •
On Monday (25th), Mascagni’s famous
opera, “ Cavalleria Rusticana,” is due, and ,
according to present arrangements Punchinello
will positively cease to make himself a widower
with a table-knife after Saturday.
i
* * » *
The Taylor-Carriugton Co. left Melbourne 1
Royal on Tuesday, to fulfil important engage-
ments at Muggawurra and other inland towns.
Their closing effort was “Is She Guiltless?” a grue-
some conundrum which was put to the public with
a fair amount of dramatic force, and answered in
the affirmative. Things looked a good deal against
her when she fell athwart the corpse of her hus-
band’s victim, and declined to offer an explanation,
but Ella Carrington was guiltless right enough.
Another company will open at the Royal on the
30th, a paragraph concerning their names, weights
and general intentions being held over till next
week.
»* » »
At the Alhambra, ne'e Opera House, that
ancient chunk of frivolity known as “Muldoon’ B
Picnic” was revived on Saturday. Harry Shine.
Whitburn, Billy Emerson and Provo, whose
balancing feats are never too old to be remarkable,
help to keep a roof over the heads of the Picnic.
Also, some much-needed new faces are said to be
coming to this establishment, and dark rumours of
a Xmas Pantomime are in the air. Prof. Miller’s
show at St. George’s Hall has not been a howling
success thus far, notwithstanding that the
respected Prof, occupied one evening last week in.
raising a pair of dumb bells two million times,
more or. less. This exciting feat failed to wean
the general public from Fillis’s Circus, where the
programme changes and money is turned away
every Saturday.
*, & * *-
Miss Adey Biunell’s pretty entertainment
appeals chiefly to that section of society which is
just now engaged with Italian opera. Business is
consequently bleak at the Assembly Hall. Miss
Brunell gave her. third, poetic recital from the
American bards the other night in,a style that-
deserved a fuller,house. A piano solo by Scherefc
and Longfellow, songs by Miss Katherine Hardy
and Charles,Saunders, assisted largely in,the little
scheme of sweetness and light.
At Poverty Point.
“Tights that, have known the,.warm, pulsation of the.
limbs of beauty.”— Melh. junior reporter, on Coppm's
old elo’ auction.
M'Adoo, of the Fisk Jubilee Singers, asked 1 by a North
Queensland parson, to allow hia co. to “ perform ” in the
local church on a coming Sunday, replied, “ Sis davs
shalt thou labour.”
Bartho has begun to work her way into Melbourne’s,
affections on her toe-tips. For a skilful dancer of the
classic school she is comparatively slender about the—er—
I?,'? - b er figure and style are altogether lighter than
D Argo s, but the latter, no doubt, would excel at high-
jUmping.
The first night of the Italian season at Meib. Princess’
was a terrible time for W, and M. in the managerial box.
when the poor tenor tried to tackle his first high note
and brought out a faint, far-away squeak, Mussy looked
at Williamson, and Williamson looked up to Heaven.
One or two distinctly comic bits in “ I Pagliacci” were
passed over with stony frigidity by.the first few “sassiety”
audiences that witnessed the opera in Melbourne. No-
reliable authority would start the laugh.
Dear Bulletin, —As I’ve a bad memory for faces I’m
often a victim to falsity of identification. But I solemnly
believe that I saw M.'Kinley, late husband of Madame
Antoinette Sterling, among the spectators at a Repent
football-match. A hideous suggestion made by my
friend Pontefract de Willoughbi, to the effect that
M Kndey liberally' paid, a. consumptive “double” to die
as his substitute in Adelaide, and is now haunting this-
globe as a grass-bachelor, haunts me with horror. By the
way, could you get me a billet as police-identifier of
suspected persons accused of anything “roneable?”—
\ours, Perjurer.
Aii attempt made last week to auction the Sydney
Lyceum, the erection of which cost £3(i,000, and which
has secured till the end of ’9O a return of £2OOO per
annum, elicited not one solitary bid. The Victoria
Theatre, Parramatta, was passed in at £l5OO.
The solicitors of Mrs. Coventry, the Brisbane (Q.) pen-
uti • *° £°k a big damatres-verdict against the local
Exhibition Committee, the other day moved to seize the
Exhibition organ, just prior to M. Wiegand’s series of
organ recitals.
The mystery of the masked man in the “off-night’*'
performances of " Pagliacci ” is solved. Mario Roussek.
who appears always as the farmer lover, managed
‘double” in the minor part of the Harlequin. Thene
was no, what you may call, legal deception in the matt-Mv
They bihed him as Signor Mario for the emergency
character, merely omitting the surname. Honest. &ut
slightly artful.
“A man is most sober when he’s otherwise,” was not
what Dick Phenyl said. “No man can be sosoberashe
who is occasionally otherwise,” comes nearer to the
quotation.
Jackson, the young tenor from Maoriland, and Florence-
Esdaile, sing in the Italian chorus among many other
pretty voices. A few of the little girls who figure in both
Pagliacci” and the Bel let, are from Pollard’s Juvenile
Opera Co.
. Mdlle. Bartha was the name of the prCmih-e danseuse
in advance notices. Then she was billed as Mdlle. Bartho,
and finally she was fixed as Signorina Bartha. But, after-
all, one doesn’t look for consistency of name or nationality
in a lady of her profession... Bartha is a cosmopolitan, no-
doubt, who must above all things be “ foreign ” wherever
she goes. Some continental managers would like her
best as Miss Martha. Now, the other one ought to Im-
pure Italian because she sticks religiously to Enrichetta,
before the D’Argo, yet even here there is suspicion of
Henrietta—or, perhaps, Rebecca.
Composer Leoncavallo has staggered the Age critic
with his originality. The last words of “ I Pagliacci ” are
not set to music— “La commedia 6 finita.” Here was an
intellectual feast for the Age man, who wrote: “The
conception of making poor Punchinello speak these words
instead of singing them strikes one as a real inspiration
of true genius.” Ye gods and little fishes! One dav
Pinero will write a comedy in which the hero sings the
last syllable instead of speaking it, and then the dramatic
notice writers will drop dead. In the meantime, we would
like to erect a monument to the genius who conceived
the idea of introducing spoken patter between the verses
of comic soiigp. What an inspiration !
Prospective inillionaDp Leitch is said to have refused the
stngenmnagership of Terry’s Theatre, London.
Before leaving Rockhampton (Q.) an advertising actor
gave a wharf-lumper £l, with—“Aw, my good man, get
a few of your mates to cheer me as the steamer leaves
and, aw, drink my health.” The wharf lumper took the
“ note ” and cleared. The steamer moved from the wharf
with nary a cheer for the illustrious artist.
Said that a great grandson of David Garrick is an inmate
of Liverpool (N.S.W.) Asylum.
G. Probyn Smith tells a pleasant incident to the credit
of Waller Bentley. George Collier, the actor, lay dead •
not a stiver in the house, and many little mouths wanting
food. Smith wrote Bentley anonymously, drawing atten-
tion to the matter. Bentley quickly attended, left a £, r >
note with the widow, and paid the funeral expenses.
Just as Maggie Moore, the other night, in "Struck.
Oil,” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, was making the rapid
remarks preliminary to singing- “ The Irish Farmyard,”
an old lady in the stalls gave a sudden and violent sneeze.
A flash of interruption, and “Gahd bless you!” with
Hibernian promptitude, brought down the House.
James Smith, in the Ann cm, writes a column of Drury
Dane Theatre history, suggested by the Duke of Bedford's
announcement that tiie old house must shortly bo pulled
down. But classical Smith was already on ihe Argus
when the comparatively latter-day bits of Drury Dane
history, about which he writes, were made, and lie doesn’t
seem to have heard of Chatterton at all. He prattles
about the glory of sundry ancient actresses, not one of
whom, probably', could have compared with Mrs. Kendal,
and sue struck London at the “ Lane,” upon an Easter
Monday night, twenty-five years ago. A lurid melodrama,
entitled “ The Great City,” introducing a hansom cab for
the first time, was the attraction. Mrs. K. (or Madge
Robertson at that time) made her nervous bow as the
heroine, who got lost in thGreat City, and sat down
disconsolately upon her portmanteau at the foot of
Waterloo Bridge. Author Tom Robertson, her brother,
came into the dress-circle to assist in giving the rising
star a good reception, a fact engraven upon the present
writer’s memory. A friend of Robertson's remarked that
he generally made a point of wearing an old hat to the
theatre, but, had this time brought his best hat by mistake.
‘‘Luckily I can’t make a mistake—l’ve only one hat,”
said the consumptive dramatic author.
“ Charley’s Aunt ” will run a fortnight in Melbourne.
Bentley will admit his Richelieu is not a patch on
Bandmann’s Rob Roy, which the Hair even had the
cheek to act in Scotland. “My food’s übon my’ nadive
heed, ray name’s Makrekka !”
Musgrove advertises Bartha as premiere danseusc*
D Argo as prima ballerina. Thus is the glory distributed-
This is pathetic. A Vic. snake-charmer died lately,
leaving particular instructions that all his 30 performing,
snakes should be slain. Ohiarini used to say the same
about his horses. Amd Jimmy Hogan insisted the “manyu
scripts,” of his Irish “ dranuners” should not survive
him, for fear Long Andrews might get them. Bui.
Andrews Deacon-Skinnered first.
Two beauteous stars could not long continue to shine fe>
the same firmament, hence Lawrence Cautley has-retired'
from Cora Potter’s Co., and is-now play ing at the Adelpbi.,
Look out for him again by-and-bye in Australia—writes
The B.’s London correspondent.
If Miss Fortescue (writes The-B.’s London correspon-
dent) goes to Australia, it will be after she has fulfilled an
engagement with Searelle,.who has her ‘‘signed, sealed,
and delivered.’’ By-and-bye, perhaps, she will work her
way to Australia via the Cape., She will be no catch when-
-she gets there.
[?]
840 Maequarie-street North, Sydney,.
September 20, 1803,'.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Rumour has it that an Australian Governor (no!
to go into pettifogging details) will not quite see
his term of office through—not if the society he
tries his ’prentice hand at governing on can help
it. The social atmosphere has been surcharged
with dissatisfaction for some time, which, I be-
lieve, only expressed itself in words at a banquet
when a Great Statesman was lingering on the por-
tal with the committee awaiting the Governor’s
arrival, just to encourage the poor thing.
When His Ex. did arrive he “ how d’yed ” some
of his hosts with cmpressement, but passed the
statesman by with that myoptic expression which
seems born with the purple ! Then the bottled-up
sentiment of the nation was expressed by the
Political None-Such in a few tragic periods.
“ This sort of thing won’t do,” he said to a sympa-
thetic group. “'E won’t do. We don’t want a
painted man in Australia.” Moral—nobody
should ever try to be a Governor without »
memory for faces that almost amounts to genius.
Another representative man is in arms against
this particular Governor, too. He—l mean the
man—went smugly along to. Government House
one morning to bespeak his Ex.’s patronage for »
deserving charity-concert, and, on tree-ing hi*
prey, opened confidentially after the manner of
the man who considers that he holds at least one
wire of the puppet. Put guess Ids surprise when
His Ex, drew himself up and said in a forbidding
manner : “ I nevah promise my patronage without
consulting the Mayah or the Premiah I ” “ Then
please consider my request unmade,’’ retorted the
representative man marching off in dudgeon.
“Fancy,” he said at the club afterwards, ‘‘quot-
ing Mayors and Premiers to ME ! ”
Sartorially considered, the Spring meeting of
the A.J.O. at Randwick, which began with the
Blue Ribbon race last Saturday, was the most un-
timely function I have ever seen in the wattle-
season. Australian society knows no medium
between the fur tippet of zero and the skin-
revealing transparencies of boiling-point, and
therefore when the sun goes off the lawn your eye
is offended by fur boas over muslin shoulders—
eloquent testimony as to the unseasonableness of
the frocking. The Frenchwoman never sets your
teeth on edge by mingling fur with flimsy, for the
simple reason that she dresses by the calendar, no
matter what forcing processes take place in the
milliner’s window.
Lady Hopetoun was far and away the best-
turned-out in a crowd of women mostly flattering
in ends and frills of unsubstantial rag. Her dress
was a tender shade of mushroom-grey with an
indistinct silvery dot. It was made with a double
shirt edged with bands of white satin, covered
with cream silk guipure. The bodice was of
white satin covered with guipure, and the sleeves
were iu three deep frills at the top with guipure
undersleeves ; a small floral bonnet in pink cream,
and green with pink velvet strings, finished the
most fashionable toilette on the course. Lady H.
is an enthusiastic race-goer, by the way. Her
glasses follow the field from start to finish, and
she, furthermore, makes excited comments that
‘‘s> and so is coming up,” or “The Blank is on
the rails,” with an appreciation worthy of the flat.
The other ladies in the vice-regal party evi-
dently didn't consider the races wonh dressing


“Be Traist." What does it mean ?
Messrs. Inues & Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Head brand of Wines, informs us that it is old
Saxon, and means “be true.” As snob, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines which
are sold at all grocers from Is. per bottle upwards.
Their invalid Port, at 3s. Od. is a wonderful wine,
full of health giving properties. - '
jg
Edinburgh.
The Old Blend.
WMsKy
Wh iteH° rs e
DIRECT CROM OISTIUSRS.
f. Wi A' S THE SAMf PURE. MEliO.i
**• MATUBEO SCOTCH PIACT
of tKc
Cellar
for. Lady Duff, for instance, in a haphazard-
£bu|(iri& gown of brown stuff topped by a broken-
Hearted hatv Irj bfp'wri yelvet with a trickling
trimming of small..funk flowers' and & black-
spotted veil bung uni d like a' cifriain'JWas tKrt
exactly a commanding figure. Lady ido&d&n,
relied for effect on a pink rose in her bonnet, and
Miss Norman (daughter of India’s new Governor-
General), in a rose-pink voile and a black velve-
teen zouave finished off by a fan-tan hat, will have
to look her Wardrobe more sternly in the eye if
she means to hold her own among Anglo-Indians.
The most original woman on the Members’ wore
ft long, dog-stealer’s coat of fawn cloth down to
her heels, over a tailor built suit of black-and-white
Checks and a collar and tie. A rakish straw hat
Completed a turn-ottt that only lacked a pair of
trousers, but these ate always the missing articles
wad ted to' Complete the Coriviricinigness of the
tftilo'r-made damsel. Miss Burdekirt in pale-blue
ffioire arid a lofig fichu of frilled white chiffon, cut
about (the most artistic figure ori the lawn; and
Mrs.. Prendergast, in ft pinky shade’ of grey With
bftnds of lace insertion and pink moss roses In a
Tuscany bbrineft, looked extremely well. A small
society lady, tightly fitted in plain yellow, rather
reminded you of one of Noah's, wives _ as repro-
duced by the toy-makers; and the inevitably
welter-weight wore copper silk spotted in black,
giving the effect of a substantial leopardess. Talk-,
ing.«bouh welter-weights, Mr. “Toby” Bartop,
adorned the Members’ irt a hat which seemed to
have seen service among Canadian snows.
I don’t like real racehorses-to have their, flames
written on their bridles, as one stable, had 6'n
Saturday. Nor did I like the appearance of on%
gee with a pink forehead-strap studded in black
beads, for all the world like circus harness. To
my way of thinking, all a racehorse wants for its
extra adornment is a little judicious pipe-clay and
ft bright and shining bit—the jockey supplies the
butterfly part of the show. A neddy with its
iiftrtie ill fancy letters across its brow or a barle-
Mhi forehead-strap will generally bo found chas-
mg (he tftil of the last horse but one when he isn’t
romping away front his field as a selling-plater.
N.S. W. Art Society’s ConyeriSftKione, on Wed-
nesday, la*-t week, finished the anniual-exhibitiofl
ceremonials. The Society has so many friends
that it “doesn’t know what to do;” the fturiu'ft!
conversazione is always an Bx 9 crowd in a 6 X 4
band-box. But to the old stager who plunges
into the fray with a tuck in her skirts and her
back hair nailed on, quite prepared to take her
fan in her teeth in the battle round the periwinkle-
stall, a crowd Is not such a weariness as some
long-frocked people think.
The affair was a success —with one or two
reservations. Of course, gowns were merely a
tangle of colour ; I doubt if any one of them was
more than a guarantee of good faith on the part
of the wearer, for the occasion wasn’t an evening-
out for society’s “pink and silver.” The most
“artistic-looking” girl there wore a flesh-pink
frock with fly-away sleeves and so-forth of silvery
gauze, her dark hair arranged somewhat d la
King Billy ; she seemed to be challenging the
world of paint to reproduce her on the walls next
Spring. The most unartful person there was a
grey-haired lady who had augmented her top
thatch with a coil of nut-brown braids and
evidently thought she was convincing.
It’s simply wicked for the Art people to invite
folks to sing for them in a small, crowded gallery
tvithoiit a vestige of acoustics. Deslouis triumphed
dver the unfitness of his environment, and was
recalled. Miss Babef, in a becoming dress of eau-
de-riil trimmed with black jet, must have felt
pleased, with the audience for sitting ori the plat-
form edge during her two applauded solos. Miss
Carpenter (a pupil of Deslouis), bound stagewards,
sang an aria promisingly, and a he-araateur sang
the “ Anthea” as if he was bolting uphill with
her. Lightning sketches (taking minutes apiece)
illustrative of how the artists love orie another irt
committee, by Spence and Minns, and a solo by
Kowalski, totalled the official programme; but
Che liveliest item of all occurred in the ladies’
cloak-room, where all the hats and wraps were in
a stir-about on the floor, and the departing pawed
amongst strftrige garments for their own particular
covering as I have seeri hogs root for potatoes.
By-the-way, that jacket-scramble recalled the
method—or one of ’em—of a fascinating society
adventuress who invariably “left early,” and
generally managed to secure another wrap “in
mistake ” for her own. The denuded party almost
always advertised her loss, and then the honest
adventuress—dressed to the finger-nails would
turn up with it and apologise in such lovely,
sympathetic language that the victim would
generally invite her to tea and cement a life-long
friendship on the spot. The number of houses
she got the run of, simply through the affectation
of a lack of discernment in opera-cloaks, would fill
a telephone-directory.
Sericulture for women is becoming quite a
serious matter in Sydney. For man to cheerfully
encourage woman on her way to independence
looks as if he were bored with all the old arrange-
ments when she looked trustingly up to him as
the only reliable bread-and-butter machine.
From my point of view, man is never so distinctly
a horrid Brute to a woman as when he enthusiasti-
cally cheers her to shake off his tyrannical yoke
and just do without him at all. So there 1
According to Lady Duff’s German governess
the N.S.W. serionltural movement is a sort of in-
dustrial haggis, for it includes agriculture, scent-
making, flower-selling, and cabbage-gardening,
besides the nurture of the interesting grub. But
the grub will be monarch of the Booral settlement.
“ The students,” said the speaker, “are enthusi-
astic enough to put up in the old rearing-sheds at
Booral, giving the worms the precedence in the
new building.” The self-effacement of a woman
who can willingly live in a “shed” while a
bloated grub goes in and out of a “building is
little short of classic.
But I must confess to feeling somewhat Debo-
rahish towards the cocoon movement. You may
point (if you want to, that is) to successful similar
industries on “ the Continent,” but that generally
ends in them pointing at you. Australian married
women cannot live on a pound of maocaroni and
one pair of stockings in a blue moon, and in the
serifiultural.'moyeraent—a society fad unsupported,
so far, by the’ money-giving general public—one
only secs another fashionable charity, generally in
financial articufo mortis, demanding balls and
stage plays to keep it on four legs. The move-
ment begins with holding out the hat for funds
to buy the whole stock-in-trade and pay the wages
of the women this and next year for their services
round the mulberry-bush—and I shall be agree-
ably surprised rf itfalw doesn't finish by holding
out the hat. . i
Gov. Duff—-who didn’t import the contents of
his stables and coach-house as did Lord Caring-
toil—drove to Kandwiok on Saturday in a braud-
ftes fed-andjifeen drasr, built in Sydney to his
order by W. Vial and Sou, This is almost the
first recorded Vice-regal encouragement to local
manufacturers in this line, ;j The drag is. an im-
posing structure —but I can never Sep a vice-regal
vehicle without picturing how it will lobfe at the
inevitable auction-sale on departure, when'ft ig
knocked down to Israel Moses Cohen, who lets it
out to wild footballers?
The bands of amateur “sisters ” and “ deacon-
esses ” who prowl about the slums and surprise
the hoodlum in his native lair, and talk violent
scripture at him when he is recovering from the
effects of strong drink, have at last aroused their
victim to fury. The world was edified by a youth
being flogged" in Sydney the other day for throw-
ing stones at Sister Somebody.
It is an easy thing to be Stephen these days.
In the good old times the mob heaved whatever
missile came handiest at the lorn apostle, and
official authority Was generally on the side of the
patty with the brick. Nowadays we have Stephen
'versus the stone-throwers with a twenty-lash ver-
dict fOr plaintiff. Martyrdom is load form in fin
de siede religious circles.
. Maspnic Lodge Oxford' hSSId a most successful
ball at Leigh House on 15th inst.—over 100 people
joining in. Masonic balls always look very festive,
fpr the hosts are gotten up regardless of expensO
it< silks and satins, and at the “ Oxford” daribe the
patp-.bly(e-aiid-silver “aprons” (stupid name!
They’re, the sife of magnified duty stamps !) were
most effective. But “aprons” didn’t quite cut
the skirts out. Mrs.'Whitely King’s dress was a
pink moire with green velvet sleeves; Mrs.
Luckie, mingled heliotrope bengaline and dark-
green velvet; Mrs. Manfield Newton 1 , black
gauze over bottle-green satin, coral flowers'in her
hair; Miss Taylor, art-yellow brocade combined
with a new shade of pottery blue velvet, making, I
thought, a very uncommon dress. As I said
before, the Lodge Oxford dance was a success.
But v' hy don’t the metropolitan Masons curb their
individual impulses towards the light fantastic
toe and give one far-reaching amalgamated most
worshipful hullaballoo in the largest ball in the
city ? Would it be against the regulations ?
The “at . Home” given by Major-General
Hutton and his officers at Victoria Barracks,
Paddington, on Monday afternoon, was a pleasant
function with lots of good band music, a display
of artillery, a musical ride, tennis, and the usual
winkle-stalls where the crowd gave an exhibition
of skirmishing for forage or raiding th‘e commis-
sariat that was part of the entertainment, to my
idea. Everything was cleverly managed, only a
good many officers in mufti or tennis-flannels gave
a homely aspect to a military outbreak that had
every chance to be extremely dressy. Surely two
Governors are “ State ” enough to make full uni-
forms de rigueur! I believe, by the way, that
General Hutton desired his staff to wear long
coats and curly-brimined silk and they—or
some of them—repaid his sartorial solicitude in
blazers, although the tennis-lawn beguiled them
not !
The vice-regal party included Lady Duff in grey
with a sort of Morse-system bodice covered with
black dashes ; Lady Hopetoun, in a plainly-made
robe the colour of the deep blue sea, with a bunch
of red and yellow carnations in her bodice and a
Dolly Yarden hat swarming with flowers of many
colours. Gov, Hopetoun (tie nursed his brolly as
one dandles an infant while he verbally encouraged
the artillery heroes) wore a pink boutonniere the
size of a soup-plate ; Lady Uarley wore rep with
green Velvet; Mrs. Hutton was in the seventh
degree of mourning and wore a becoming black
bonnet; Mrs. Spalding wore black-figured grena-
dine with a purple bonnet; Mrs. Louis Haigh’s
dress Was black-corded rep. Many carefully-
turfled-out women (there were nearly 1000 guests)
trooped down the steep stairs leading to the lower
lawn—like angels swarming up and down Jacob’s
ladder, only with infinitely more dressing on, you
know.
Sydney, by the way, is becoming painfully
military. The local Commander-in-Chief gave a
garden-party to the non-coms, and their sweet-
hearts and wives, at his residence, just recently,
and in the middle of a sound of revelry by day,
a “dispatch” was mysteriously thrust into the
hand of one warrior who was beginning to enjoy
himself. When be opened it, in fear and
trembling, he found he was ordered off to—Woll-
ongong ! Talk about “ Belgium’s capital ” after
that.
A question that agitates your Sappho just now
is whether a maiden lady is convincing when she
rises in public and alludes to "all-invading and
all-grabbing man ? ” Doesn’t she herself form a
living refutation of her own assertion ? Man
hasn’t grabbed her at any rate !
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
To Non-Subscribers and Distant Readers.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, to be published
December 16, at this paper’s usual price, Gd., will
shine like a star. It will not be a fat hunk of
paper stained with English stories, bought abroad
for ss. a page, shared with scores of other papers
throughout the world, and backed up with yards
of stolen matter and a garish foreign-printed pic-
ture of a girl nursing a kitten.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be absolutely
original, both as regards its literary matter and its
pictures, which latter will be contributed by
the leading artists of Australia. The literary-
contents will comprise contributions in prose and
verse from over 40 old and new Australian
writert, and there will not be one dull line from
first to last. The number will be the best and
biggest and most original sixpenny-worth of read-
ing published by any news-magazine in the world.
Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number will be mailed to any Australasian address
outside N.S. Wales for Bd. in stamps; to any
English or foreign address for a remittance of 9d.
in stamps sent to the office. 24 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S, Wales.
Important Notice.
Avoni this paragraph if you value your peace of
mind. The Bulletin’s “Missing Word Compe-
tition, No. 6,” closes on this Saturday, 23rd •Septem-
ber, 181*3. (800 advt. inside of cover of this issue.)
As a result of the five competitions, The Bulletin
has paid about .£420. The actual amount of the
pools received was .£ll7 18s., and, to avoid frac-
tions. an amount slightly in excess of that total
was distributed among 78 successful competitors,
or an average of about .£5 7s. 2d. each. The
highest scoop was £6O 3s.—by a “solitaire” lacly-
guesser.
“ Don’t start another newspaper, there are
already two in America.”- Benjamin Franklin’s
Mother.
THE Wild-Cat Column.
Jt&W. Premier Dibbs’ latest ahll brightest
i'ffea' is ttf pat away £250,000 a year towards liquidating
the IT. S'. \V. debt, and to float £2,500,000 worth of Treasury
bills. The qti’arter-miDioo saved will “inspire con-
fidence," and the tvlo-atid-a-half millions will be borrowed
on the strength of the aforesaid confidence ?
# # •'
The Vic. Permanent Building Society hangs out
signals of distress and applies for reconstruction. Six
months ago Chairman Crews congratulated the Society on
its paid-up capital and reserve-fund, which made “ a total
of JLSiO.OO'O; and should further strengthen the confidence
of depositors a‘3 1 to' the stability of the society.** The
present trouble is caVfsed not so much by loss of conn-
dence as by a generally urgent demand for cash to meet
“calls" elsewhere.
• « *
The Melbourne Board of Works had! a happy
experience, the other day. Long ago—so long ago that
the date is now lost in the mists of antiquity—the Board
sent the poet Fitzgibbon to England to float a loan of
£1,000,000. Fitzgibbon somehow made a bad impression,
and though he sold his debentures they went off at a
miserably low price ; in fact, something like £lOO,OOO
out of the million was lost in discounts and expenses.
Then the money was lodged in three Melbourne banks,
which all reconstructed immediately afterwards, so that
tiie Board had practically borrowed a lot of money at
4J per cent, merely for the pleasure of lending it out on
insecure security at 4£ or thereabouts. This transaction
left the miserable Board penniless. Last week, however,
it managed to float, in Melbourne, a £300,000 loan at
5 per cent., realising £9B 6s. for each £lOO debenture.
And £lOO,OOO of this new loan was taken up by two of the
same reconstructed banks which grabbed the old loan
and 1 profess themselves unable, through sheer poverty, to
let go; Therefore, the Board raises money at, say, 4|
per cent., and the banks seize the money by a forcible
borrowing process at 41, and then lend part of it back
again at a shade over 5 per cent. This is the sort of
thing which makes the hair of the reconstructed depositor
turn gray. # g -
Tasmanian Parliament has authorised the dis-
posal by lottery of the assets of the deceased Bank of
V.D.L. ” AH the lands, goods and chattels of the institu-
tion are to bo traded off for £300,000 in £1 shares, every-
thing being put in at the municipal-rating valuation, and
the State to' bo responsible that every investor gets a
square and honest gamble. This idea is one which ought
to be adopted all over Australia. The nation will gamble,
and if the State doesn’t provide some honest game of
chance then the money will go in “tote” or fan-tan
swindles.
# « •
It is time to do something towards ending the
almost interminable horrors of liquidation, and big
lotteries are as justifiable a palliative in so unexampled a'
financial crisis as morphia-injections would be in a cancer-
case. Australia is cumbered with the ruins of some
hundred or more broken land-banks which are all paying
office-rent, and salaries, and liquidators’ expenses, and
law-costs in 500 different suits to settle interminable law-
points, and getting no nearer to the end of anything
(except the assets), simply because every kind of property
is unsaleable and utterly gone bung. Therefore the calls,
and’the selling-up and bankrupting of shareholders, only
go, as a rule, to pay expenses, and the creditors’ dividend
gets every day more remote.
# # #
On the lottery-plan, all the assets might be dis-
posed of and the available dividend—which would be a
godsend to many a wretched depositor—be paid inside of
twelve months, and then the bloated liquidator and the
legal cormorants who live on the game might take an
honest turn at the pick-and-shovel industry, and produce
something as an excuse for their existence.
0 * *
Failing some such device as this, the winding-
up process will last far into next centurj'. In Melbourne
just now three building-societies hold, among them, over
1100 houses, of which many hundreds are empty! The
rents of the remainder just about pay rates, taxes, and
repairs on the lot. The repairs alone make a ghastly
item, for the “unemployed ” break into the untenanted
houses in search of sleeping-accommodation, and sell the
door-knobs to the marine store person in the morning to
raise some breakfast—in fact, Melbourne lives just now to
no small extent on stolen door-knobs. The houses are all
practically unsaleable, and the societies are going to ruin
through inability to collect calls, and a good many of
their depositors are sleeping out in the Fitzroy Gardens
or along the Yarra. If they raffled the whole business,
allowing the depositors to take out even a fraction of
their money in tickets—money which would otherwise go
in liquidation expenses—some hundreds of beggared indi-
viduals might get a house apiece to live in, and the hope-
less institutions might wind-up decently.
# * *
Bat the country is too moral to encourage
gambling, therefore the depositor breaks into his own
property at night by smashing the expensive plate-glass
window, and sleeps on the floor after making a lire of the
back fence, and steals the door-knobs in the morning for
breakfast, and then is prosecuted out of the proceeds of
the last call or else out of the bank overdraft. Liquida-
tion, on the old orthodox lines, is the slowest thing The
Bulletin knows of. If anj'one could get up a race
between a liquidator and a raft in a dead calm this paper
would bet all its money on the raft and feel happy.
* * *
A.J.S. Bank shares sold some time last week at
575., but then a violent drop took place to 505., and now
the highest price offering is 465. Commercial of Sydney
climbed up to t'2o, and then came back to somewhere
about £l9. A. J.S. deposits are now to be had at 17s. in
the £, and Commercial or Sydney at 18s. 3d.
# # *
The Australian Banking Co. (F. . Abigail’s
defunct institution) has effected a compromise with its
creditors whereby each shareholder is to be released from
all liability upon payment of £5 per share, in ten instal-
ments extending over 2J- years. A proviso is inserted,
however, that the compromise shall only hold good if the
amount realised totals £3500, so apparently the liquida-
tors don’t anticipate that quite one shareholder in
twenty will show more than a colour of gold when he is
crushed. Also, a further proviso sets forth that the
liquidators may accept any less sum than £5 per share H
the shareholder is unable to pay in full, and under this
clause a good many individuals will probably settle up for
the pallid shadow of a copper in the £. The liquidators
probably fixed the £3500 minimum because that seemed
about all that could reasonably be hoped for, and on this
basis the Co. will most likely yield almost enough to pay
liquidation expenses.
» • •
Four Sydney booksellers have been committed
for trial on charges of having criminally libelled the
trustees of the Savings Bank of N.S.W., by selling copies
of an unregistered periodical that contained the alleged
libel. The particular passages complained of were con-
tained in an editorial answer to a supposed corres-
pondent, who was advised to “use the Post Office Bank,”
was told that “ the other one is a trap to gather in the
savings of the people for the profit of the joint stock
banks,” and was informed that there was “ said to be a
secret passage under Barrack-street to the vaults of
another bank.” Of course it is an offence to sell an
unregistered newspaper; yet the particular paper now
objected to has notoriously been sold publicly for months,
while the police have simply ignored its existence, and,
by not enforcing the law, have encouraged a laxity of
business conduct that has suddenly been construed to
involve a very serious offence. The police never seem to
enforce the law merely for its own sake; their chief object
appears to be the making of a sensation.
# # *
It’is stated, on the authority of a N.S. Wales
Minister of the Crown, that the Sydney detectives tried
their utmost to find out who printed the red-hot paner.
Hard Cash, the local dissemination of which caused so
much excitement, but failed utterly. Whereat the
Government is infinitely annoyed.
• # *
Melb. Tram Co., having failed to chbke-uff the
cabbies on certain suburban routes by lowering farts to
2d., have now dropped to Ijd, with a view to “ preserving
their traffic.”
* # #
The Associated Colliery Proprietors, Newcastle
district, N.S. W., have given three months’ notice to the
miners that the present agreement will be terminated In
December. This forebodes a drastic further reduction
upon the last decrease of Is. per ton in the selling' rat*
and id. per ton in the hewing rate, and prognostications
are rife that either each colliery will be left to make its
own local terms, or that the new reductions will be—
selling rate, 7s. per ton ; hewing rate, 2s. 6d. The closure
of the Back Creek colliery, Minrai, takes effect this Satur-
day ; 380 hands, adult and boys, will join the unemployed.
Some SOO men have already left the district and gone
gold-fossicking, but next week the local unemployed will
number 1000!
# * *
Dawson, M.P., reveals that gas is cheaper at
Ballarat than in Sydney I “ Mere gas-stoves are used in-
Ballarat," thinly explain the apologists of the Sydney
gas-ring.
# * *
In a teat-trial of Newcastle against Vic. coal, a
steamer ran 20 miles in Hobson’s Bay, using first one and
then the other coal. Results—4oool bs. Newcastle against
405011)3. Vic., and Newcastle is said to have had advantage
of a hot boiler. What the result would have been had the
trial been in Port Jackson, is easily imagined. It the
trial was fair, then Vic. coal deposits have marvellously
Improved.
* * *
Engineers trained at Mort’s Dock, Sydney, are
offering their services at 255. per week! Any good man
—and splendid men have been trained at Mort’s—could
get more in England.
« * «
Last year Mount Morgan treated 62,200 tons
ore for 119,9000 z. Divs., £300,000; working expenses,
£202,000; div. tax, £15,000. Of the £202,000, £109,000
went in wages.
* • #
There are still some 100 diggers on the islands of
St. Aignan and Sud-est, New Guinea way. Ground-
sluicing is mostly followed. They report “ tucker ”
occasionally a little over. The common opinion is that
rich reefs yet remain to be found in the island hills.
Fever still prevalent, but those who are there now have
become almost proof.
# # *
As was here anticipated, the three American
miners who were going to hydraulic-sluice away some of
the gold-bearing New Guinea mountain ranges have re-
turned to Sydney without more than a few million oz,
gold.
* * *
Aboard of the schooner Ivanhoe, from New
Guinea last week, were “five cases machinery’’—repre-
senting the great M’Canley syndicate’s hydraulic plant
that was to bring in 1,000,00(5 dol. annually; and concern-
ing which so many columns of modest matter appeared in
the Californian press,
* # *
Gyrapie beat Charters Towers badly last month.
It returned 12,717 ozs. gold from 8704 tons. Its calls were
£6OOO, and its dividends £23,850. From 16,484 tons of
stone the Towers got 18,484 ozs. It called £5OOO, and
divided only £19,225—£4625 less than the older field.
# * •
No. 1 South Phoenix has been a model mine.
It has paid £400,000 in divs., or £2O a share. Capital,
£lO,OOO in 20,000 shares ef 10s., not a cent of which
has been called up.
# * #
No. 1 North New Zealand, Gympie, crushed
during last month 852 tons for 48650z5., from which
£13,400 was distributed in divs.; nevertheless, the shares
dropped heavily last week. The rich ore-body is being
rapidly taken' out. The property consists of several
blocks, in two of which other gold-bearing reefs are ready
lor working, and their value is being determined by
adjoining mines.
• # *
Gympie crushings last month—B63l tons, 12,652
oz.—or nearly l£oz. average, which, considering the ton-
nage, is one of the highest in the world ; divs., £23,790;
calls, £6139. The div. stocks represent 37 per cent, on
their market value.
# # • #
Charters Towers men are interesting themselves
in the deep ground at Croydon. One mine after another
is getting through the breaks in the country into good
ore beneath. Blocks are, as a rule, too small; mining
management not the best, and too little attention paid to
the saving and treatment of sulphurcts. Time and money
will prove Croydon a permanent gold and silver field.
Three years ago Broken Hill (N.S.W.) mines
were worth—market quotations—£22,ooo,ooo ; to-day,
£3,000,000. Then, Mt. Morgan (Q.) was worth £16,000,000;
now-, £1,500,000. What bagfuls of competencies fell
through the gaps!
# « *
Somebody writes Melb, Age suggesting that
Bayley and Ford should be rewarded by the Westralian
Govt, for “the hardships they underwent in opening up
Coolgardie.” An illuminated address, or a gold medal
apiece would not be inappropriate to these plucky, bright
(and strictly sober) young men, but the suggestion of
pecuniary offering smacks of grease for the fat porker.
They sol'd Bayley’s Reward mine to a syndicate (after
taking 2600 oz. from it) for £6OOO cash and a sixth share.
If those “in the know ” are not desperately out in their
calculations, Bayley’s Reward mine is “ worth millions,”
so the bold discoverers ought to do pretty well. Sylvester
Browne has a sixth share all to himself, and there are
some 13 other shareholders, one of whom, a lady, con-
siders herself very happy in the possession of a 240th
fraction. And both Bayley & Co. and Brown now appear
to be on other fascinating local finds—continuations of
the golden reef.
# # #
Broken Hill unemployed—blackballed mine
workmen mostly—recently petitioned the local Council
for work, and the Council responded by discharging alt
its regular workmen, about 100, who had been employed
at £2 10s. per week, and invited the unemployed to
fill the breach at 80s. Over 400 applications were
received in the first few days. The Council’s available)
cash, even at the reduced rate of pay, is expected to give
out in a fortnight, after which that body contemplates
laying violent hands on a sum of £3OOO due to the N.S.W.
Government, which had to stump up a similar sum to the
S. A. Government for water supplied to Broken Hill during
the famous water-famine.
# # •
The gold-yields from the Victory (O. Towers)
gradually drop; but the dividend ore is not being
exhausted, as there are waiting several good faces on the
reefs worked up to its boundaries by other claims.
« • «
The Australian ’93 gold output looms as the
biggest for many years. Even poor N.S.W,, by dint of
fossicking, will have a respectable, though relatively
insignificant, total.
# * *
Big Bendigo crushings : Johnson’s Reef, 14470 z,;
Princess Dagmar, 693; New Prince of Wales, 828;
Hustlers, 315 ; Specimen Hill, 285; United Hustler’s, 240
Total yield for the week, nearly 7000 oz.
* « «
Some big crushings are said to await water at
Croydon. The last best, No. 1 South True Blue: 300 tons,
7030 z. ; div., £1240, or for this year, £8694. A big open-
ing exists on Croydon for pyrites works, as the stone
carries heavy sulphurets below the water. As a rule,
Croydon ore holds as much silver as gold ; average value
of latter, 455.
* • *
A rumour has run in Sydney that the Spa’s
(Shoalhaven) first cleaning-up would be very big. The
writer hears from a capable man, in a position to know,
that the present wash-up will not represent a fair trial,
but the nozzles having got well into the main drift-body,
there is every hope that future yields will be handsome.
(“Wild Oat ” continued on page IS.)


I/VAJV/VIUVWI
[HAirPENHY
(AA'V
Q-ct> t o 3E3IB!3L«!ILi
IGOf.ANO for l'i ((I \ Stamps. Wo
Sell i lie Sc lof 11. in.us -I, fori?. 0(1.
lllusliaUd I’iice f.i-l of ami
Auslralasiau Siamps, post free ami
(mill*.
r. A. ViITD IT Sc CO.,
EUZAi rtu vi u:i':r, svdnev,
*n.s. \v.
e o
mis
lliifwi
■#mm
FOSTERS
Ale & Stout.
OUARANTi'.Kn Si'I.KNMI) C»>:>DITI ">N T .
Larrf St K .tt.ors and Sli pp rs i.i tli3 V.’-rld
J'ntn i/nr.i I > (.'ltiMi/v Exhibition.
Ealchin, Johnston Sc Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
BE ON GUARD
AGAINST THE
VILE AND INJURIOUS IMITATIONS
OF
CLEMENTS TONIC
SOLD BY MANY DEALERS.
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
BEST, ORIGINAL
AND ONLY GENUINE.
Don’t be deceived or misled into buying any
other, or your pains, time and money are only
thrown away.
CLEMENTS TONIC
POSITIVELY CURES ALL CASES
ARISING FROM
ANyEMIA, LIVER COMPLAINT
AND INDIGESTION.
WHAT THEY SAY IN GOULBURN.
Mas. W. Witts, Clinton Lane, Goulbunh
N.S.W., who writes on June 3rd, 1893:—I have
been troubled for the last three years with severe
headaches, pains in the back, and shooting pains
throughout the whole system, complete loss of
appetite, and a languid feeling, and my eyesight
got so bad that I could not see to read even in the
daytime. About a month ago I had a severe
attack of influenza. I was so ill and nervous I
thought I would never get better. After various
remedies which did me no good I was persuaded
to try Clements Tonic, After taking one bottle I
was so much better, and my eyesight improved—
I could read without trouble—and after taking
two more bottles I feel better than I have felt for
years. I intend strongly recommending it to all
mv friends. —Yours gratefully, W. Wills, Goul-
burn, N.S.W.
By using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, the blood is
thoroughly cleansed and invigorated, the appetite
stimulated, and the system prepared to resist the
diseases peculiar to summer months. Ask for
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Take no other.
p c st rn 1 i sell c |J ost
I'rjchcint jetlen Sonnabend in Sydney. Prois v 1
Xu liaben bei SCeiUmj's-AgenUni.
Abonncnienfc 10 sli, j.tln.i A direkt be! dor
Foreign Ptiblixhinff O/nv, 20 Hunter Str., Sydney*
Personal Items.
One of Graham Berry’s sons is, or was, a
bush publican.
£ £ Smith is only 63 next birthday*
although he looks much younger.
Walter Griffiths, the “baby” of S.A.
Assembly, has been seriously ill of measles.
Coroner Youl ; “ Deceased destroyed him-
self in a moment of sobriety.” Neat and philo-
sophical.
Since the Mercantile Bank, S. V. Winter
exacerbates no more —all the linguistic resources
would fail.
“Mr.” Edith O’Gorman, who engineered
the escaped nun in Australia, died suddenly at
Dulwich, Eng., recently.
Duncan Gillies, the man of mythical
“strength,” sat in a stage-box at Melb. Princess’
for the first night of the Ballet.
Miss Jessie Little’s brilliant scholastic
record gives her a good place in the running for
the position of demonstrator in biology at Melb.
University.
Kingston never was impressed with
Parkes, a fact the old man knows. When he
was in Adelaide the two hardly exchanged half a
dozen words.
Sir, Charles Dilke has dropped in for a
legacy of <£170,000 from one Sauoke, without
being compelled to change his name to the pic-
turesque one of his legator.
John Gale, ex-M.L.A:, father of N.S.W.
country press, regularly, like James Harrison, in
the old days of the Geelong Advertiser, set up
his leaders' without writing them.
E. Pariss Nesbit, about the sharpest of
Adelaide lawyers, has at length been gazetted a
Q.O, The distinction would have been bis several
years ago but for the persistent opposition of the
Judges.
J ustice Hodges has developed a pernicious
weakness for “ speaking pieces in Melbourne.
He drips moral platitudes on every occasion, and
aspires to be another Higinbotham ; but there is
no meat in him.
A spectacle to shriek at was Vic* Speaker
Bent on Flinders-street (Melb.) Station, the other
evening, in full fig—silk stockings, knickerbockers,
and tremendous flat shoes with soup-tureen
buckles thereon.
Major-General Hutton, the new N.S.W,
Commandant, has received a large number of
letters, many of them marked “private and com
fidential,” in approval and disapproval of his pre-
sumed Imperialistic proclivities. He files them all.
The Kiama-ghost record : In the O’Farrell
tragedy Judge Cheeke tried the case ; Martin and
Isaacs prosecuted ; Aspinall and Dailey defended;
John Williams was Crown Solicitor, and Tom
Pavey prisoner’s solicitor; Bull was hangman.
AU are now dead. Parkes, however, is still living.
Parkes, like MTlwraith, claims never to
have put friend or relation into the Civil Service.
His son, “Bob,” long deceased, certainly was a
paste-brush hand in N.S.W. Govt. Printing
Office, but then papa did not put him there. Poor
Bob was an independent boy and got there
himself.
Dear Bulletin, —Re your par.
as to the late Capt. Devlin, and his
father—Arthur Devlin’s—exile to N.S.
Wales, along with Michael Dwyer and
other ’9B men. It may interest you to
know that Captain Devlin’s aunt —
Annie Devlin—also played a bravo part
in the history of those troublous and
gory years. She was Robert Emmett s
faithful and devoted housekeeper, and
underwent fearful sufferings at the
hands of the “bloody Yeo’s.’ The
secret of Emmett’s hiding-place was
loyally kept by this courageous woman,
and every attempt to intimidate her
into divulging her secret failed. The
last resource was suspending her by the
thumbs in the backyard of Emmett’s
house, but even this brutality did not
succeed, and Emmett escaped, to be
betrayed by others later on. Annie
Devlin died years afterwards, and
found an unknown resting-place in Glas-
nevin cemetery, until the kind-hearted and
patriotic Irish historian—Dr. Madden—discovered
the spot, and had a suitable headstone erected
to the memory of this lion-hearted woman.—
W.J.H.
“ Fiddler Alfred ” is probably only keep-
ing the Duchy of Saxe-Coburg warm for his eldest
son, now about nineteen. Which, by the way,
calls to mind the fact that in the family of a
certain N.Y. musician there is a step-son, who
claims to be son of the fiddler Duke by an Aus-
tralian J ewess.
When old Robert Thomas printed the
early numbers of S.A. Register in a tent at
Holdfast Bay, the paper was edited by his wife,
a remarkably clever woman, whilst the setting up
was done by the proprietor and Lindsay Cooper,
who is now Register overseer, and who has
hardly ever missed a day’s work.
N.S.W, ex-Treasurer M‘Millan, who is not
illiberal in assessing the value of commercial work,
is reputedly a niggard where literary labour is
concerned. His comments some time ago on the
demands of Mr. G. B. Barton were but sparks of
a generally-implanted indignation at the “ pre-
posterous claims of literary workers.”
The facial disfigurement of Johanna Jor-
gensen (who long masqueraded as a man in Col.
Price’s Horse) was such as to give her a Chinese
appearance, and Fire-low Price once enquired how
a Chinaman had got into the Mounted Rifles. At
another time Jorgensen was told to stand out of
an escort for the Governor, as there was a notice-
able looseness in the fit of her uniform.
J. J. ShilHnglaw, who celebrated his 63rd
birthday on Saturday week, is the only man in
Australia who lias the clue to the fate of Bass,
the young ship’s-surgeon who, with Matthew
Flinders, discovered Bass Straits, and proved
Tasmania au island. History tells that Bass set
out with a brave ship’s company for the Spanish
main, that he reached those seas, and there the
book-tale ends. Baas is vaguely said to have died
in a South American prison. But ShilHnglaw has
confix on odd tfiicGS of tlio br«\ve navigator, which
point the way through the mists.
“Jimmy” Campbell, Vic. Minister of
Education, who died in Melb. last week, Editor
Fitohett of the Review of Reviews, and W. H.
Dick, the journalist who died lately at Brisbane,
were fellow-scholars at the same Sunday school in
Ballarat 30 years ago. Campbell was idolised by
Melbourne ’busmen, 10 or 12 years ago, for the
part he took in arranging things for them with the
directors, to the advantage of the drivers. He
made a tour through China a few years ago and
had an interview with the Marquis Tseng.
Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, tells a queer
story about an heir-at-law. An English spendthrift
was coming into a heap of money. He visited
Australia, dogged at every step by a private
detective whose cheerful business was to watch
till the prodigal died, and forward the news to the
heir-at-law. At last the wicked one fell into
Youl’s clutches, through being drowned in the
Swanston-street gutter. He fell down while
drunk, and a few inches of water proved fatal.
Then the heir and the “D.” shook hands in con-
gratulation.
T. P. M‘lnerney, M.A., LL.D., Warden
of the Senate of Melb. University, was the direct
cause of the resignation of Law-Professor Jenks,
and thus indirectly the saviour of Melb. Uni-
versity Council, an effete and garrulous body
which rather cleverly mismanages the affairs of
the institution. For David Syme wanted the
forceful and fightful Prof. Jenks to write leaders
for the Age, even as two of the other Professors
do for the Argus. Negotiations were still pending
when the row between MTnerney and Jenks over
an exam; paper in Roman Law cropped up, and
ended in Jenks resigning. Had Jenks joined the
Age, that paper bad arranged to burst up the
whole present system of University government,
and substitute a much less mediaeval one. But
Jenks’ satirical humour came out beautifully
in the row. Jenks had a private quarrel with
MTnerney, and, refusing to meet him to set the
Roman law paper, sent a draft to him for com-
ment and correction. MTnerney’s blood boiled,
and he appealed to the Council to compel the
Prof, to meet him, which the latter sternly
refused to do, until the Council sent him an ulti-
matum, pointing out that unless he met Mac. on
a fixed day, his chair would be vacant, Then the
other professors persuaded Jenks into compliance
for their sakes. The meeting took place in the
board-room, the furniture of which consisted that
day of a 15ft. table, with one chair at each end of
it.' At the head of the table sat Jenks in all the
glory of his academic robes, and waited. Mac.
entered in mufti. Jenks looked him up and down,
and, as Dean of the Faculty, called Dr,
MTnerney’s attention to the regulation requiring
academic dress-to be worn at all University meet-
ings. Nothing daunted, the bold Mac. sailed out,
hired cap, gown and hood from the head porter,
and returned. He took his seat, and the meeting
began. Jenks read the first question on the draft,
and asked—“ Has the meeting any amendment to
offer ?” MTnerney proposed one. Then said
Jenks, “ I put the amendment! those in favour,
Aye ; those against, No. For the amendment, 1;
against, 1. As chairman, I give my casting vote
against. ’ This solemn farce was repeated over
each question, and the meeting ended. The
meeting had been held in legal fashion, and, after
all the fuss, Jenks, by his casting vote, had sat on
both MTnerney and the Council.
Administrator Macgregor, of British New
Guinea, was trained at Glasgow University, and
Th 6 R(UIT
Will elderly gentleman (J
ASSIST yOUHC LAQY IN
.Distress with loan o rjS,~ (
ST £ REOT T WLO (VtHiHC Pap6*\
Aiwt-
TH ’ e \m Harvest 1
BUT ONLY ONCe
INi
j-000 Tmt<,
ONE, TWO, THREE.
was a navy surgeon, before his settlenMit in Fiji,
and subsequent promotion to New Guinea.
Though strictly temperate, he is not a total
abstainer, wherefore a rabid temperance crank
once remonstrated with him. To him Macgregor ;
“ When I was at college, we were all poor men
working hard and feeding chiefly on oatmeal.
But one night a week we set apart for a sym-
posium. Every man bought a bottle of something.
One managed whisky, perhaps ; another got beer;
one or two purses could only run to soda-water.
But we drank them all.” ‘ nice sore heads
you had next morning.” “ That,” retorted
Macgregor, “is as it may have been. But 1
verily believe those weekly orgies, as poor-people
like you might call them, were om salvation, for
without them we would have died, or fallen
victims to melancholia. Why, you fo.J, the very
dregs of an honest whisky spree are seeds of
humour! ”
Dr. Mohs, a medico well known on every
N.Q. goldfield, died at Cairns last week. The
present writer once saw Dr. Mohs administer
of
and teaspoonful of tincture of cayenne. uoc
vill v»ke do dead,” remarked the little Doofor.
N.S.W. Minister Copeland brought in two
village settlement schemes at the end of last
session of Parliament—one the result of his own
lucubrations, the other drafted by lawyer Lusk for
the Citizens’ Committee and tacked on by Cope-
land as an afterthought. The House rejected the
first and passed the second, much to the chagrin
of Copeland—to whom a member : “ They
smothered your child and enacted the afterbirth;”
Young Harrison Moore, by virtue of his
Law Professorship, is Dean of the Faculty of
Law in Melbourne. He is very boyish-looking,
and even now is not a decade out of his teens.
Wherefore, a meeting of the Faculty of Law has
a queer aspect, with this youngster presiding over
twelve potent, grave and reverend seigniors, in-
eluding among them the Chief Justice, two
Supreme Court Judges, two Queen’s Counsel, the
leader of the Equity Bar, and an ex-Attorney-
General.
A N. S. W.
barrister was, a
few years ago,
assigned by the
CroWn to defend
two aborigines oil
a charge of mur-
der. A doctor
bought the skull
of a countryman
of theirs from the
blackfellows, and
asked them to get
him another. The
Crown case was
that prisoners
went and poisoned
a man for his
cranium. Ve r-
diet, “N o t
guilty.” When the
case was over, the
accused told their
attorney that the
assigned barrister
must have been a
fool to believe
they were inno-
cent, and when
the Crown Prose*
cutor passed them
in the street, they
raised their hats
to him as a man
of mind.
Suitor, N.S.W. Minister for Education,
boasts that he had no schooling until he was eight
years of age, and ex-Treasurer Pattison 1 I-1
boasts that he had no schooling after eight years
of age. Each indicates by his boast that school-
ing is unnecessary during the years he was with-
out it, but both boasts taken together are equally
potent to show that schooling is not necessary at
any age.
Henry Ide, the new Samoan Chief Justice,
successor to - Cederorantz, the Swede, is an
American, and will be cordially greeted by the
Samoans. By the Germans he is regarded with
distrust. R. L. Stevenson’s views of Ide are not
yet to hand. In the long-haired man s opinion
there is but one man capable of placating the
local political factions, but modesty forbids him
mentioning that man’s name.
During Parkes’ last term of office as
N.S.W. Colonial Secretary he received an official
letter from one of the Departments addressed to
him thus : “Sir Henry Parkes, M.P., K.C.M.G.
Ho.at once wrote as follows on the envelope, and
returned it to the .Under-Secretary of the Depart-
ment concerned :
Unquestionably the officers of Government ought to be
uniformly correct in the designation of persons. Thus
any person who has received from the Sovereign any dis-
tinction expressed by letters added to the name should be
so addressed before any other letters such as M.P. or J. 1.,
which are accidental, are added. In this instance not
o:i!v is the accidental or temporary distinction put first
but the permanent distinction conferred by the head ot
the State is incorrect. [Parkes is a G.C.M.G.] Of course
this is of no consequence to me personally, but it is not
creditable to the public service. I suppose the officer who
addressed this envelope to me would hardly address Lord
Carington as Charles Robert Carington, Esquire, &c.
Could volumes better describe the character of the
man ?
Miss Jessie Ackerman, the bony temper-
ance lady lately in Australia, has written to a
Sydney lady friend a nice, breezy letter telling the
story of an American Echo Farm :-
My Dear Friend. —l have reached a place of such in-
terest, and one of which I had read so often, I am going
to tell you what it is like. John G. Woolley has here
made a home for all who are tired of sin and drunkenness.
He is a reformed drunkard, and besides being a powerful
man on the platform he is most interesting to know per-
sonallv. Tlie cause of his downfall was “doctors
orders.” . . He staggered the length and breadth of
tlie land (what a splendid drunk!) and found himself in
New York without even knowing how lie came there.
Now here to go, no friends or money. Turned out ot the
saloon, lie wandered through the streets till he staggered
and fell, too drunk to rise. In this state, on a cold night,
he was found at the front gate of a very wealthy woman,
who ordered her servants to put him into the best bed,
where he' slept till morning, and woke to find himself sur-
rounded by everything lovely. His only thought was,
“1 must have broken into this house,” and his
only care was, “How, can I get out without being
arrested?” And while planning to make good his
escape, there was a knock at the door, and a beautiful
woman entered. Ilis first, questioii i was, ‘ W here am I,
knew you must perish of the cold if we left you there, and
so, for tlie dear Lord’s sake, brought you in. We keep
this room just to shelter those who need it; for we re-
member, ‘lnasmuch as ye have done it unto them, ye
have done it unto me.’
Miss Ackerman, as a solemn teller of stories
which wouldn’t hold water for an instant in
Divorce-judge Windeyer’s court, is rather amus n?.
Brisbane’s “leading daily is now being
run principally by cheap juniors, with visible
undesirable results.
taSsnjrrJSi b « egA sySff vg
. mu,, fVm mnttpr to the
££ wES# S^ oMd*
desertion, of course?
, u,o
Death after death among the dive , -
Darnley Island deep patches. Last Victim,
Buffett, a Norfolk Islander, a kinsman of Stephen
Buffett, the Pitcairn Islanders schoolmaster of
former tiines. Ihrefe of the Rotumah boys who
went up under engagement two months ago have
been paralysed—one beyond recovery.
There is a good show now for some
dare-devil traders, willing to run gaol risks, to
make a venture on the coast of Dutch New
Guinea, Two Sydney schooners did well some
time back, but one of the skippers cackled so over
his success that the Dutch gun-boats have kept a
good look-out ever since for the flag of the hated
“Englander.” Among other things to be got
from the natives are gum-copal, copra, pearl-shell,
gutta-percha, nutmegs, and skulls. Without
doubt the Dutchmen have the best piece of i apua.
hj
DIGNITY UNDER DIFFICULTIES.
(A sketch from life, at the rear of a Sydney tram-car.)
Max Hirsch, in a Freetrade letter to the
Argus, makes the simple assertion that the use
of explosive rifle bullets by any nation places it
outside the pale of civilisation. Max seems to be
much impressed by this military fiction, and to
think that the “kingly game of war is full of
glory so long as it isn t played with explosive
bullets. Such nice distinctions between civihsa-
tion an d savagery in schemes of national slaughter
™tS-cll.info rß ed Australian In
England . , ,
Dear Bulletin. -Since I wrote you last there has been
little of Australasian importance. The Royal wedding
was a fine show, and the vulgarity and immodesty of the
whole thin!; haB been unutterably painful. On the evening
after the wedd j nft| afc t h e Gaiety, a verse was put into one
flf the 80ngS) \ n w hich the soloist and chorus expressed
the opinion that, if the newly-married couple had any
luck, “ another duke would make his bow-wow-wow. A
medical man told me the other day that amongst the
pi . ofesgioil recognised that the Duke has pro-
i,aijly a dark future before him, as he has shown
strong symptoms of the old Guelphic malady. The
symptoms, lie added, have been very marked since his
serious illness of twelve months ago. The Victoria court-
martial is over, and the general impression is that
it j s a very lucky thing for some of the surviving officers
of the vessel, as well as the officers of the Camperdown,
that Trvon stuck to his ship. The Imperial Institute has
found its level. In the reports the bank holiday notices
of the attendance and the attractions were sandwiched
j n Die same column as the other London shows usually
a ttende 1 by ’Arry and his “donah.** Our cricketers
were beaten on the post by Kent, and one of the team
says that the men thought it sucli a soft thing and the
weather so hot, that they were “ fairly on the tank.
“Colonial,” London, Aug. 11,1893. P.S.—Everyone is
i aug hing here at the way in which the Victorians are
monkeying with Davies. The general idea is that there
j 8 unspeakable rottenness behind it all.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
S’” —v-nS
%UsM
(rtQngaar^aiHi
(Portrait Photographers)
Xloya.l A.roade, Sydney -
OC
“Messrs. CHARLKMONT study to keep them-
«elres abreast with the various new and beauti-
lul processes in photography.”
Advice to Young Men—JUc. Richards’ ad., ,p. 1.
t
The extraordinary popularity of Ayer's Cherry
Pectoral is the natural result of its use by all
classes of people for over forty years. It has
proven itse’f the very best specific for colds,
.coughs, and puliMonary complaints.
“ IMITATION
is the *
SINCEREST FLATTERY.”
The articles most imitated are
CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S FILLS.
WHY ?
BECAUSE they have the best reputation and
are most in demand by the public; consequently,
every dishonest trader tries to trade on their fame
and renown.
It is really wonderful that the Australian people
are so slow to see the truth as regards the un-
scrupulous quacks and charlatans who prey on the
credulity of the Australian public. Scarcely a
week ever passes but what the press exposes the
barefaced and shameful practices of some of these
harpies, yet, in face of all they seem to thrive, and
the paper who hounds them down most thrives
fattest on their advertisements and cracks
champagne over each balance-sheet. Clements
Tonic and Fletcher’s Pills have never yet stooped
to deception and misrepresentation. They are
scientific therapeutical agents, and evidence as to
their value can be found in every district, and
such being the case it is unnecessary to further
extol their virtues.
AGRICULTURAL
and
MILLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE Emm,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES A. BUGGlES-
<jsilham Fleming,
22 & ‘24 Clarence Street,
sii)u:v.
$
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various;
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
jg
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Lords will be “ done.” “ The Lord’s
will be done ! ”
It is stated that the S.A. Cabinet is not
% happy family just now.
Treasurer Playford is the drag bn the
Kingston (S.A.) Ministry.
Australian illiterates, says Hay ter, number
272 per 10,000, or 2.72 per cent.
There is a Chinaman voter on tile Q.
electoral roll who votes Labour every time.
The Argus does not fight Protection now,
notice. It only bangs the “ high tariff ” party.
Vie. Legislative Council has carefully
shelved the Bill to reduce the Governor’s salary to
=£7ooo.
Premier M'llwraith (Q.), “talking through
jlis ileck ” : “The Northern Separation movement
Is dead;”
Agent - General Bray (S.A.) refused to
respond to the invitation to voluntarily reduce his
salaryi
Significant that s-.s. Tsinan was manned,
on her last trip to Australia, by Japanese,
replacing Chinese.
Chaffey Baker, father of Adelaide National
Ass, himself a barrister, protests that'he is in
favour of absolute freetrade in law.
S.A. Advertiser goes for bi-metallism.
More poison from the penny slot. As well advise
a blind man to try green spectacles.
“Eyeglass” Reid says that the N.S.W.
Freetrade party was “never more solid ” than it
is now. Certainly ; never more dense.
The Age re railways reform : “ What is
good for France and America should surely be
good for Australia.” The Republic is coming.
The Pacific High Commissioner has pro-
hibited the sale of firearms to the Islanders in the
British protectorates. First disarm, then rob 1
Service has lived down various things,
including his saying that a man could live on ss.
a day. Now the Vic. Railway Minister says 3s.
Agent-General Eraser, of Westralia, sug-
gests that our Agents-General be given seats in
the Commons. Yes ; and why shouldn’t we send
Governors to England ?
Extract from Argus report of Jingo
Federation meeting; “ Dr. Maloney was ousted
from his chair by several portly Federationists.”
“ Portly ! ” Fat man, again,
A certain N.S. Wales M.P., formerly hie,
°ays lie will support neither of the two big parties,
but will “ walk alone.” Thomas is evidently proud
of his new accomplishment.
It is stated that a very well-known Q.
squatter-millionaire lately paid off a very pro-
minent Q. politician’s big bank overdraft. This
seems to account for—several things.
Mr. Josephson, N.S.W. Agent for Immr
gration, has made out the official papers for an
average of immigrants per week during the
past year. Mr. Josephson’s salary is ,£360 per
annum.
Neither Traill nor O’Sullivan w*as at the
last caucus-meeting of Dibbs’s Parliamentary sup-
porters. Neither was Nick Willis, the man who
always used to address Dibbs familiarly as
“ George.”
The latest shake of the political kaleido-
scope in N.S. Wales is towards the formation of
a new “country party.” And it has to be big
enough to include the multi-party man, E. W.
O’Sullivan.
About 24 out of every 100 persons in S.A.
are Savings Bank depositors. Average rate of
expenses for year ended June, Bs. 10|d. per £lOO.
Average amount to credit of each depositor,
£2B 10s. Bd.
Any politician who, by vote of want of
confidence or otherwise, obstructs the consumma-
tion of the N.S.W. Electoral Bill, will be a public
enemy, and as such will be dealt with by the
electors.
Queensland Government declares that it is
■at present “ inadvisable to publish” certain cor-
respondence it has received “in connection with
land-giant railways.” Again the back-parlour
confidence-trick.
Failing some sort of closure, the Kingston
Ministry will only carry a modicum of their
Radical programme through S.A. Assembly, the
Ass members having adopted a concerted plan of
talking against time.
During the first seven months of 1893
■South Australia exported 156,510 gallons of wine
in wood and 10,110 gallons in bottles. The pro-
hibitionists will have a tough job when they start
to tear up the vineyards.
Commissioner of Works Holder, it is
'claimed by 8. A. Land-taxers, was at one time a
strung supporter of the Single-tax. Ditto with
Minister of E location Cuckburn. Both now
advocate the progressive Land-tax.
The prominent Oppositionists were so
hilarious over the defeat of S.A. Government re
the Land Values Assessment Bill that the Parlia-
mentary caterer reaped a rich harvest, and there
were some very drunken interjections in the
-Assembly.
Admittance to the imperial Federation
League’s “public” meeting in Melbourne last
week was largely by ticket. Which accounts for
the enthusiasm. One might have easily drawn a
line through the audience where the claque finished
and the public began.
Reid will not ultimately lead in N.S.W.
The corning great fight, extending over more than
one general election, is Conservatism v. Demo-
cracy. Reid belongs to neither camp, ahd yet
wants to live in both. His veins are full of the
poisonous acids of the law.
N.S.W. Minister of Justice O’Connor lias
had a benevolent reaction after his recent Hogging
spasms. His latest freak in penal administration
is to provide long-sentenefed “solitary” prisoners
with gas and books in their cells. The lash in one
hand, the light in the other.
Parkes told a Sydney suburban Audience
last week that Federation “ will make the people
of Australia forget the home beyond the seas.”
A new card, this. The old man will soon be ready
tO lead the party which eliminates “ under the
Crown ” from the federal prospectus.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott, we are told,
nettled the Bundaberg planters by frankly telling
them, after all their ptofuse hospitality, that there
is nothing to prevent the conduct of the local
sugar industry without the aid of the kidnapped
Polynesian or atly other coloured serVile labour.
Attorney-General Bynies (Q.) spent a full
hollr dilating on the curse of landlordism at the
Brisbane Home Rule meeting. Next night the
same political impostor was helping through Par-
liament a rascally Land Bill which proposes to
give away the public lands wholesale at ss. an
acre !
With a fine sense of the fitness of things*
the Imperial Government has sent the nominal
head of the most despotically-ruled portion of
Australia to be the real ruler of the most despoti-
cally-tided portion of the Empire. The change
will not be violent for the veteran, for Queensland
is already half Asiatic.
Deducting from the population the nou-
driukiug classes, the average adult male in Vic-
toria drinks yearly 72gals. beer, Tgals. wine,
and ogals. of whisky and other spirits. In the
past eight years the province has spent in liquor
a sum equal to the entire public debt. Suppose
no one drank, what a paradi.-e it would be ! Bah !
You remember the story of the dying Frenchman :
“ I have never smoked, but where, oh where, is
the money I have saved in cigars?”
In the fight of
the Vie, Parlia-
mentary “pushes’*
the teal leaders are
scarcely recognised.
What is Zeal in the
hands of .Jenkins,
of the Council ?
What is Bent but
for Robin son?
Tint h is, Clerk
Jenkins made a
fatal mistake when
he left the Assembly
for the Council. He
calculated on man-
aging both houses,
but the Assembly
objects to “bossing”
from that quarter,
and the Assembly
clerk is a fighting
man. He allowed
control over general
outdoor matters to
pass, but set up his
back against “your
superior officer”
within the House.
Hence, in brief, all
these tears. Clerk
Jenkins was (save
in name) always
Grand, and in
boom-time magnifi-
cent. There were
smiles abroad when
the C.M.G. came
out, but he put
them aside, an d,
stroking his flowing
beard, remarked :
«' Of course you
don’t understand, but I will lay you a hundred
now (it was boom time) that before two years,
you see—Matthew, first Earl of Toorak, and Sir
George Jenkins, K.O.M.G ! ” Now?
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs has dropped tem-
porarily his bombast about abolishing payment of
members —
Take “ the living present ” limply,
“ Let the dead past bury its dead,”
Wait the crippled future simply,
Trusting to the luck ahead.
The reports continually circulated that
Premier MTlwraith (Q.) may suddenly, in the
apparent zenith of his power, and simply because
lie is sick of public ingratitude, throvy up the
reins of Government, are merely reminders to
Queensland that it must fall to pieces if Dictator
MTlwraith and gang let go its throat.
Maoriland’s birth-rate', last year, was but
27.83 per 1000— nearly 6.00 below that of the
other Australasian provinces. Queensland gives
the highest proportion, 36.84 per 1000. Westra'.ia
leads the van in the death-rate, 16.63, against an
average for Australia of 12.36, and the low pro-
portion for Maori land of 10.06.
According to one daily paper, “ Jack
Jorgensen, the Vic. trousered woman, voted at
every election for the last fifteen years :
A little fact that dames may quote,
Tliis story teaches:
’Tis not the Entity that votes—
It is the Breeches.
It is almost certain that S.A. Assembly
will pass the Adult Suffrage Bill after excising the
provision to refer the question to a referendum.
There is some chance, too, of a clause being added
authorising women to sit in Parliament. Ex-
Premier Downer is a strong supporter of the
measure, as lie thinks it will tend to conservatism.
The Duke of Devonshire, according to the
cable, says that Home Rule will arrest the pros-
perity of Ireland. Considering that Ireland is
the only country in Europe whose population is
steadily fading away, and lias been fading for the
last half-century, it'takes a man of colossal front
to profess that there is any prosperity to be
arrested.
Tasmania resolves to replace its high-
priced Agent-General with a man of no particular
importance who will get JIO a week for doing the
former’s duties, and have the privilege of keeping
himself in stationery and paying his own oftlec-
rent. The other prove cos would probably follow
this good example but that an elaborate office in
Loudon, with unlimited opportunity for impres-
sive greasing, is so useful as a refuge fOr the
Imperialist Premier who sees the public boot
swinging to kick him out.
During the year ended June 30 last, there
wfere in Bnndaoerg district (Q.) 282 deaths, of
which 145 were Kanakas ; or, more than half the
deaths in a population consisting of 12,000 whites
and 3000 Kanakas ; or, over 48 Kanakas per 1000
to 111 whites per 1000; Further, the Kanaka
mortality was all adult; the white deaths included
those of children;
(Speaker Abbott’s intervention ill tile
Kanaka labour-question has for its reason the
desire of Sydney Federationists to bring Queens-
land into the Federal family. If black-labour
were disallowed, M‘llwraith and Griffith would
stand out. Now, it will be allowed by the party
at present running Federation in N.S. W. 1 Alas
for Federation !
All the Vic. Labour-members voted against
the further reduction of the municipal endowment,
which is mainly the endowment of Fat Man at the
expense of the tax-payers at large, and must
remain so whilst town and shire councils consist
of the greedy bourgeoisie \Vho cdt svages to the
last farthing, ahd fight like devils for roads to
their own back yard.
Dibbs Government (N.S. W.) has decided
to snuff-out lizard-hunting M‘Gooey by declaring
the noxious king-parrot “unprotected” “within
Burragorang Valley for a period of 12 months’
A stroke of fine diplomacy—
Parochial bid;
They doom the parrot, don’t you see r
To save the Kidd.
Parallel cases. Two young and able
lawyers, one in Victoria, the other in N.S. Wales ;
both left their profession to go into politics; both
have occupied high office in Governments ; both
were, and perhaps are, possible leaders ; both got
mixed up with tottering financial institutions as
directors; and both have returned to bar practice
to retrieve their pecuniary losses.
They have in Ipswich (Q.) a debating-class
which has been in existence 2;J years. Several
Crown Ministers and more than a dozen Ms.L.A.
have sprung from it, and its Speaker has held
office fur 25 years. It has now a Labour Ministry.
Apropos : In a big Brisbane class not long ago no
one could be found to advocate Labour principles.
Now the members say they can find no one to
oppose them.
jgh
j/ 1
¥
&
f
A STORY WITHOUT MANY WORDS.
With Machiavellian benevolence, Premier
Dibbs (N.S.W.) instructed the Inspector-General
of Police “ to see that Mr. M'Millan ” (his poli-
tical rival) “has a fair hearing at his meeting.”
Dibbs does this for “My dear M‘Millan ” as a
friend. Packing his meeting with intervalled
policemen instructed to suppress interjections 1
What a wealth of popularity it would confer upon
“ My dear M'Millan ! ”
Gr. H. Reid, leader of N.S.W, Opposition,
was described to his face the other day, among
convivially-friendly surroundings, as “a made-up
man.” The name is not neat enough to stick, but
it just about covers Reid. He is a bit of John
Farrell, and a slice of M'Millan, with some plums
from Bruce Smith, and fat from Curnow, and
paste from Parkes. The plate he is served on is
contributed by Burdekin.
Treasurer Carter, of Victoria, has artlessly
twitted his late colleague, Isaacs, with not “ ap-
pearing at all events to have a certain amount of
good faith ” in the nolle prosequi Ministry that
turned him out. “Good faith!” will soon be
taking the time-honoured place of “Shame!” at
public meetings, &c. Good faith ! It is able to
remove mountains and keep an astonishing lot of
people out of the police-court.
The Imperial Federation League of Melb.
stands on clay teet. All the leading members and
speakers at the public meeting in favour of Aus-
tralian Federation were prominent Orangemen.
Did Judges Holroyd and Hodges not recognise
this when the paid hirelings unfurled the Union
Jack and wagged it feebly before the audience
already dazed by hearing Mayor Snowdon read six
pages of an ungrammatical speech ?
The Patriotic Association which met twice
a week in Sydney about GO years ago, was almost
equally divided upon the question of establishing
a Legislative Upper House. 'Most of the pro-
minent speakers favoured a single Chamber with
Ministry or Executive body elected from its mem-
bers. When, afterwards, the Bicameral system
was adopted the mal-contents prophesied its early
abolition.
Some of the humours of land-resumption
for railway purposes in Victoria: In the remote
and.lonesome wastes around Bright and Myrtle-
ord land sells at from <£3 to iit> an acre ; the rail-
way department paid .£lOO an acre. One man got
A 575 for two acres of dead trees and the labour of
removing his wooden cottage, and another £4O for
shifting a wooden shed. A third individual
parted witli six acres of ground, valued at £3O,
for <£sBs.
There is much feeling in Adelaide Demo-
cratic circles over the attitude of the Labout-
leaders towards the sincere and brainy journaliat,
Medway Day. The general desire is to run Day
for S.A. Legislative Council next April, but the
Labour-party stick to “ wage-earners,” although
their majorities are secured by the co-operation of
outsiders. Day is the One man feared by the Ass,
which spent hundreds of pounds to keep him out
of Parliament last April.
The Argus, the House of Lords and the
Home Rule Bill:
The barons who subdued the kings are now called upon
by every feeling of citizenship, by the traditions of the
constitution, by their position as legislators, to resist the
degrading despotism of the closure.
But the barons of to-day are not “the barons who
subdued the kings.” They are mostly the pimps
and prostitutes who pleased the kings.
The R.C. Archbishop Dunne (Q.) said, at
Maryborough lately, that “ better than churches,
better than schools, were comfortable happy
homes for Australian children. ’’ The Archbishop
is consistent with himself ill making this state-
ment. His whole life in Queensland has been
devoted to impressing upon his various flocks the
duty of settling on the land and building homes
for their children. Numbers of families now
Erospering about Toowoomba and along the
•arling Downs generally, owe their farms to the
urgent pressure of the then Father Dunne. What
is the use of colossal cathedrals and three-storeyed
scholastic edifices if children and parents must
huddle together in dingy hovels ?
“Even the workers do not see that they
should try to wipe out these middle-men, who are
living entirely by bleeding them. These strikes
for a few shillings more or less of wages will do
little or no good. The poor devils must fight for
political power. If the plutocrats do not take care
—and they will not —the word ‘ repudiation ’ will
be heard along with the ugly word ‘ revolution.’
The weight of militarism, civilianism (civil ser-
vioeism), rent, interest, and profits will prove too
much for humanity yet, and the public ass will
unload in haste and anger some day.’'—Extract
from private letter by an eminent Australian
Judge, Italics his Honor’s.
Fish, M.H.R, (M.L.), on Stout, K.C.M.G,:
They have seen the things that the honorable member
for Inangahua has done in the past. They have seen him
promise all sorts of things. They have heard him say he
would never accept a title—that all these kind of things
were to he condemned and despised, and yet they had
seen him on the floor of that House, with tears in his eyes,
Oars of gratitude, accept the coveted honor from her
Majesty the Queen. The honorable gentleman had shed
tears on the floor of the House, which had to be cleaned
up by the washerwoman next morning, saying he was
compelled to accept the honor because if he did not it
would be an insult to her Majesty.
This is the sort of thing which every hebaubled,
ennnobbled wretch gets thrown at his dis-
honoured head for the balance of his natural life.
Stout has probably more brains than any Aus-
tralian politician, not even excepting MTlwraith,
Sam. Griffith and Kingston, yet he is remem-
bered chiefly as a poor, miserable K.C.M.G., a
political Judas Iscariot, and the man who fixed up
the Midland land-grant railway. And th t is
about equal to saying that he might have been a
god but preferred to be a book-canvasser.
Baronet O Loghlen the other day moved
the alteration of one little word in a cla,use of Vic.
Public Service Bill. In the ordinary way this
unpretentious amendment would have been passed
without discussion, but i.t happened that O’Logh-
len’s keen young friend Isaacs pointed out
gorgeous possibilities of political patronage lurk-
ing in the word which w’as to be substituted for
the other word. Thereupon .Graham Berry pro-
tested against any “opening of the door to
favouritism,” &c., &c., and jood old O’Loghlen’s
amendment was peacefully smothered. Some
apology for this intercepted “error” seemed
necessary, so Premier Patterson explained that
O’Loghlen had not quite grasped the intention of
the clause he was so anxious to amend. He had
presumably got a good grasp of his own idea in
trying to alter the little word aforesaid, but he
was, according to Patterson, wrong in deeming
the idea necessary. An Attorney-General who
doesn’t grasp the Government’s intentions is
amusing. Thank Heaven the O’Loghlen inten-
tions, however pernicious in practice, are always
strictly honourable— vide 379 newspaper comments
on the Davies nolle prosequi.


Windsor, Friday. —A case of tinkettling a
newly-married couple occurred at Sally's
Bottoms ou Wednesday night. During the
uproar a gun was tired, and a young man
named Mahoney wa« injured in the hand.
It is likely that police .proceedings will b«
taken. . *
At
AM
(D
* tm
p,t \
3of
4 _
lliipront) IVi if?
i I *V- Wao-
- i
m 3
A affiait market may be found in Cana/?}
for Australian vrmcsi /.
qS*,
r SMtTki
h
\-, ' " 0n thi
hand, Canada will try the
market with her rye whiskey. This is said U
he o’.mfcpor, milder, purer, and in every w*|
more Wijplesoma than tho average Seotci
whiskey-’ M’l forth* <sVmies.
mfet _ 2>‘ l ri' li^^ 0 f . a J~'
Jack Want Says. " A Land ami Income tax stouLf 6e
lvoi|#i» lather. Fat man will rise ub and
Cal! JacK Want hlessti- !'
fiBST Small pay hint j/et luokm forfi in dn/ksbry
AiylifHap?
*** 1 Criminal libel . AipF
Sap fp sell tapers nouj ulittfoul'fati*
Crown prosecutors Opnj'm /
*■>
The Free trade heetinq of We Future
Th( (HfIIRMAM {No )fu_4^yj I you/
hwt much (jlahurc in iitlfiroducin fk stpaftcray fRe a\)tm ulho
ullJl npul pro fade fo i/indicat'e fwdonj ' J nj^
njititioij dint' agoir j to fa /]o anpndnjirjf 1 '
A LOOK-ROUND


/A< Je
application was recently made td
U»e Crown Law .Psoirtmeit bv a Ballets*
jdSnor nanlid ,mi»W, ©#lSs' H i OO 6
petition for the
■*«lWp of 'Annie Collins, a female
prisoner in the Maryborough Gaol, on
the simple plea that ha was desirous of
marrying her. Collins was sentenced on
July 6 to 12 months' imprisonment on a
ibarga of vagrancy.
: .. ** .(
*s/**' T s^
re > C;
«/■#/» '*
tj i
ti h '
A (BASE FOR THE LASH."
«<£,»*&&&* tS» r :jti»fttOO
Bench- P r ®-“ *
curiouV sermon, and artiire at an extra*
ordinary decision. They bad need that modern
instrument of torture, a shanghai, for
knocking birds la the Royal Park. The chairman of tse
Bench Tie wed the matter with horror, say*
log it was “one of the most seriousohencee 1
that can be committed, and one that richly
deeemi the lath,”.
La w
COURT S
I
IpWeflTimJl
d?? Goddard V 77? e e of iic /aS,
J?— Jf fo?o Seern ~70 7f si oc A A/m o vis/~~ Ae <fe/$ uh s/ed&k t>
f / ctp&f’ry.i i_
' ik*
heft‘d'
& a ? U*r 9 *
6** •'
*"*,* ' '
S9 0 . -
„**' /t f°r
Ac**
p
-Jop.MosEs
BODKMfI KE R.
y /
TTfe */-
f /;<*r/yo*. 7ZTf a r.7Ae~
-m/jTet/oHSi e?ss*y6/>**-r* t -*e>*‘
a/ 7A e/r
c/tiff
ns <p£-ufi-ed.
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
tilth-s, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase v ry much in value in the next
f„ w v'iusl' One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 30!) Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
,£lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W, J. Douglas,
vho will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
\
Wonderful (Discovery!
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE EOT TON.
rnlllS Lotion cures Start Huff and Sand}/ HI ir/hti,
’ In/t timed Kytn* and Lids, Dimness of Si(/hf.
Very beneficial to 'those who have Hr it/.- ICi/rs, as it
sf re nr/ f/if ns the sir/lit. By post, Us. per Bottle.
f 3S r “ Manufactured Solely by 11. A, ItOsll. < liemisl,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROUT. HERMANN,
the great French Specialist. His treatise on "Woman’s
Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope, upon applica-
tion by letter, enclosing three stamps, to 45 Collins
Place, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Scorn
Scrubby
Imitations
Sold by
Scurrilous
Scoundrels
Drink only
taf
Schnapps
Buy Whole
Bottles
and look
out for
£ l
Orders.
Society
Another cruel reminder of Melbourne’s
diseased social condition was the Mayor’s annual
jball last week. Town Clerk Clayton had deco-
rated the big hall with choice plants ; also, the
arrangement of light refreshments was fairly
tasteful, but nothing could conceal the hollow
mockery of the whole business, A taint of private-
composition persisted in struggling through the
perfumed vanity. The ball appeared to be strewn
with “ representative ” debris, and each influential
citizen present speculated upon the exact measure
of his neighbour’s insolvency. When Lady Hope-
toun, glancing round the festive scene, spoke to an
aide-de-kong, she was supposed to be saying :
“Show me the persons who ought to have gone to
gaol.”
If the Hopetouns give a fancy-dress ball
ere they depart, there will be a chance for every
honest male guest to turn up as a convict and
clank his chains at the others. The joke wouldn’t
catch-on, however. The Melbournian who deserves
locking-up has such a fixed belief in his precious
innocence.
* * *
N.S.W. vice-royalty is forcing the social
pace. In one week —four balls, two garden-
parties, three dinners, two polo-matches, and the
races. Quite an overdone Duff*
# * •
g, M. Herald, spurred by the develop-
ments of the local D.T., has so far modernised as
to publish a “ social ” column, in which are
chronicled Mrs. Beerpump’s latest ruchings. “It
moves !”
# • *
A Melb. girl parades the Block wearing
a hatband inscribed with* gilt Chinese letters.
This reminds us of a certain lady in another Aus-
tralian city who, eleven years ago, held a stall at
a charity bazaar, at which the local Chows pro-
cessed. She exhibited two streamers, bearing
Celestial characters, on each side of her counter
as a compliment to the aliens; but she never
expected the ovation she received. Every eveniwg’
the lepers would gather round and grin’, AWcf
exchange epigrams in their quaint vernacular
about the young ladies assisting. The stall-holder
never got hold of an interpreter bold enough to
tell her that the banners really set forth that
the stall was consecrated to the worship of
Venus, and that a certain charge was made for
admission to defray expenses.
A Maori woman
was recently murdered
at Te Hauko (M.L.)
by a countryman who
beat her brains out with
a tomahawk. Then
he gave one wild, weird
yell, and fell down
dead. What a subject
for the dreary person
who writes tracts —
these tracts which the
flat-footed man in the
baggy black suit
stealthily leaves at the
back-door on Sundays.
# * »
The scion of a
fashionable Vic. family
was lately forwarded
to Oxford University
by his loving parents
so that he might be
educated apart from
the pernicious influ-
ence of the common
“colonial” undergrad.
He took with him a
■draft sufficient to meet
the cost of fees and his
exes, for some months,
but a friend of the
family discovered him,
not many weeks after
his arrival, holding
horses’ heads in London
for a living. The gold-
washed music-hall siren
had buncoed the confid-
ing youth’s trust-
funds.
• # •
It is understood
“in Anglo-Australian
society” that Miss
Ethel Stephen, daugh-
ter of Mr. Seppy
Stephen, is engaged to
be married to a gentle-
man with an unpro-
nounceable name. The
Stephens are practising
“self-denial” bn the
Continent, where S. A.
duly airs the title of
Honourble, as by law
now permitted.
The Southern society maiden now does
battle with the Gaiety siren on her own ground.
At some very fashionable Melb. tableaux a week
or two back one shapely little Toorakian appeared
in the regulation burlesque costume, tights and
all, and an enthusiastic Johnny observed that she
“did Addie Conyers brown !” A pleasing inno.
vation which has The Bulletin’s entire support.
# # *
Melbourne’s frisky matrons conie into
prominence once more—when two rival claimants
for the smiles of a married lady engage in a
“scrap ” almost in the presence of vice-royalty.
# * *
Lord Kirttore, on his return from his six
months’ leave, will bring his sister to do the
honours at Adelaide Government House. Lady
Kintore has resolutely decided that she will never
put foot in Adelaide again. t
# * *
Mrs. Bowles, the Melbourne bride whose
left arm had to be amputated on the very eve_ of
the honeymoon, is fervently assured by her loving
husband that it makes no difference. In the words
of a sympathetic reporter, “Mr. Bowles’s pleasure
at the rapid progress of his wife is unbounded.”
A pretty little romance :
...
VERY FILLING.
SUPPORTER OF CANDIDATE :—“Our first business, gentlemen, is to
appoint a chairman, a worthy gentleman who could fill the
chair to the satisfaction of this meeting, and”
ELECTOR: “Say, mister, I don’t mind assisting this here meetin’. and
maybe I could fill the chair.”
A Sydney evening paper, of Sept. 8, dis-
coursed, in see-saw fashion, in its_ leading article,
on the immorality of clandestine negotiations
between baby-farmers and their customers—and
published on the front page two advts. soliciting
negotiations for the transfer of babies.
H # *
A pious policeman, in charge of a Sydney
lock up, regularly reads, about midnight, a pot-
ion of Scripture over the drunks and inoapables
under his care. Only a few of the offenders fall
again, he says, after undergoing this treatment.
* * # ,
At Georgetown (Q.) the white bakers
charge fid. per 21b. loaf, in Sydney a loaf of good
bi ;ad (21b.) can be bought for 2d. cash, and a leg
of mutton for fid. When the publicans bring
down the price of a pint of beer to a penny, and
everybody has the Id. and the 2d. and the 6d.,
there will be no more hunger, nor grief, nor
sorrow, nor thirst in summer, and everyone will
sleep in the Domain and pay no rent.
# # *
At Launceston (Tas.) members of the
“Parliamentary Debating Ass.” “do” the thing
in style. The “Speaker,” “ Clerk of the House,”
&c., wear the orthodox wig and gown, and a real
“mace” adorns the table in front of the
“Speaker’s Chair.” The members are mostly
elderly gentlemen; “No fools like old fools.”
The ArguB
insists that d,
recent railway
accident at
Kilmore (Vie.)
was a national
calamity, and
that most of
the passengers
were badly
mangled. The
Age describes
it as a mere
mishap. It is
feared that the
Age will be
tempted into
taking a deter-
mined stand in
support of the
Almighty one
of these days,
and so drive
the Argus
into howling
Atheism.
* #
An Au s-
tralian weekly
newspaper
lately agreed
to publish a
poem sent to it
from the back-
blocks, on the
author under-
taking to pur-
chase! 00 copies
of the issue.
Both parties
fulfilled the
contract.
• »
There is
now a dog-
hospital in
Sydney, with
red lamp and
night-bell.
A sericultural colony is undergoing Johanna
Southcottism in Sydney society. Land, haying
been cleared by the weak and nerveless hireling,
Man, is to be handed over to Spinsterhood for
flower-farming, bee-farming, and silk-growing.
No assignment of labourers appears yet to have
been made for chopping wood, carting manure,
digging drains, &c., &c., but those are mere
details. Each spinster is to get, nominally, 15s. a
week and food—ss. a week in hard cash, balance
to be credited towards shares in the co opera-
tion. One-third of the “profits” is to go to a
reserve-fund. Mr. Brady, who, it would appear,
is the only male to be allowed within gunshot of
Amazonia, is to be the instructor. The Bulletin s
best wishes go with the scheme.
* * •
Advance Queensland ! Brisbane is pro-
mised a divorce case in which the respondent is a
grandmother, and the co-respondent a married
man of fashion.
* • *
A Glebe Point (Sydney) resident sends to
The Bulletin a long account of a “surprise-
party” which broke in on his premises the other
night, and “partook of light refreshments,” after
which it sang “ Auld Lang Syne.” This paper
regretfully declines to give any details of the
loathsome thing. It has always regarded the
surprise party as a hog-institution which should
be shot at sight, and it declines to encourage the
habit by mentioning the names of people who
rush other people’s houses at night, and leave ham-
fat marks on the piano.
• • #
The day after a Sydney Domain dosser
was arrested for a beastly offence, he received a
cable announcing a fortune of .£3OOO.
# * *
In-and-out breeding in a Queensland
border district. A Scotch husband and a German
wife. Corollary : A Scotch-German-Australian
daughter. Further development, a Chinee lover.
What will the mongrel be?
# # #
Dear Bulletin, — A real Sydney ocur-
rence. A Sunday-school girl, wishing to donate
3d. towards “improving the heathen,” gave the
parson’s lady a sixpenny piece, and received a
battered something in exchange. “Please,
ma’am, this is a bad thrippenoe?” “Well, dear,
you try and pass it during the week, and, if you
can’t, bring it back next Sunday, and we will.” —
Yours, A Lost One.
# # *
From 1872 to 1891, the percentage of
illegitimate births in Sydney rose from 7.65 to
16.08. This phenomenal increase is partly owing
to improved railway communication with the
capital—the home of virtue. In N.S.W., as a
whole, the percentage is 4.5.
* • *
Kintore’s indisposition to “part” at Ade-
laide bazaars calls for bold and resolute treatment.
What has become of the energetic fair one who
used to rush up to Bill Robinson with “ Can’t I
tempt you, Governor? ”
# * *
Bumble knew something. At Grafton
(N.S.W.) police-court, the other day, a man got
six months for vagrancy. He had been arrested
because he was in possession of medicines and
herbs used for improper purposes. Now, if he
possessed herbs and medicines which are
visible and saleable assets—he surely could
not be justly imprisoned for vagrancy or poverty.
And if he wasn’t arrested for vagrancy, isn’t his
sentence illegal ? Why don’t they arrest and gaol
all the chemists and herbalists in the country?
And if his herbs were used, will he be brought up
again by-and-by ?
# * *
The Wesleyan-parson element of Brisbane
Telegraph piously publishes a sermon, for Sunday
reading, each Saturday. Advt. from aforesaid
Telegraph :
"yOUNG Widow Lady offers comfortable Board and
Residence to a Gentleman ; no other boarders
kept; highly situated, good locality ; three minutes
from city. Apply Pet, G.P.0., Brisbane.
# # #
The last foreign prima donna who came
with mamma made a splendid match. Signora
Guidotti, who married pieman Rubira, of Mel-
bourne.
•4^/-
A CLEAR DISTINCTION.
PROSPECTIVE MISSIS : “Let me see, you are Irish,
I think?”
THE PROSPECTIVE “GENERAL”: “No, mem—
Oi’m Orange.”
One of the oldest tenor-singevs in Mel-
bourne, hearing that Giraud's voice was non est
on the first night of “I Pagliacci,” wanted to
know “What could they expect?” The tenor
always goes wrong in the throat at the least pro-
vocation. If Melb. Liedertafel travels only as
far as Sydney, the change of climate is expected to
make the tenors speechless for a day or two. The
baritones and basses don’t require to become
acclimatised, but the tenors—theirs is a voice that
requires more care and consideration. Ergo , the
“ sympathetic ” tenor is an unnatural vocalist—a
falsetto singer, in fact. The hard, metallic Italian
tenor-robusto sounds unnatural, although his
wire-drawn notes are nearly always available. It
is the sympathetic throaty tenor who turns a
manager’s hair grey in one night. Williamson
and Musgrove may be white before they have
finished with Giraud, unless they can keen him
hard at work inhaling eucalyptus.
* * *
Editor Bulletin, — Apropos your notice of
Adey Brunei’s Browning recital, and your query
as to the existence of a Browning Society in Mel-
bourne. There has been but one Deeming—l
mean Browning—Society in the Vic. metropolis,
and that was started in Ormond College by a mis-
guided, but clever theological student, who said
he understood Sordello. It was done to death by a
“Josh Billings” society, which used to meet in the
adjoining room on the same nights,_ and used to
continually send inquisitive deputations into the
Brunonian camp widi earnest prayers fur inter-
pretations of obscure passages in the works of the
Poughkeepsie auctioneer. —G.
# , * *
The anti-type of Johanna Jorgenson, the’
Victorian woman-soldier, has been- heard of in
Vienna. Albert Lackner, to evade conscription
duties, dressed up as a woman and got various
billets as maid-of-all-work and she-cook, under
the name of “Sophie.” All bis mistresses 1
declared that they had never had “such a hard-
working, good-humoured girl before,” and were all 1
willing, if not anxious, to take her back, even'
after it was declared officially that she was a he..
The Judges only sentenced him to 24 hours’
arrest.
# # •
The music stopped—“Thankyou,”l said,.
She smiled and gave a nod ;
But would not had she known, I thought, ■
The thanks were due to God.
“ One arm alone
To gently squeeze
Your neck or waist—
The other gone !
You will not tease
When thus embrac’st ?”
“ My pretty wife
Those words recall;
I ne’er will scoff.
By surgeon’s knife,
Once and for all,
’Twas taken off.
But O !—confound this nasty cough !
Your right arm shan’t be taken off.”
“You love me yet ?
You are content?
You do not grieve ?”
11 Can I forget
The day it went ?
That empty sleeve
A story tells
Most comforting.
It whispers now
Of wedding bells,
A golden ring,
A solemn vow.
Dear empty sleeve ! Upon your brow
I kiss again the wedding vow.”
“ You’ll crave no touch
Of vanished hand ?
Poor me ! bereft!”
“ My get, not, much ;
You cannot land .
Me with your left.
Have no alarm ;
Love is not dead-^
This heart is thine.
You lost your arm—
Well, in its stead,
I give you mine.
Have no alarm, love is not dead — l
You lost your arm, take mine instead,”


To The Dkaf. — A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings. 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S. W.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OP PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR" and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principlefrom the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions,
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAV AND SON'S, JULIUS EE IT RICH,
REBEL and LECHLEITER, CAUL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by a'l Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music,
Miss Deck, of Sydney, who has been lady-
missioning among -Queensland Kanakas, describes
them as having “no fear of a God, but a great
dread of a devil; they are very cruel to their
wives, but have very warm hearts.” It take a
woman to point a pencil—or a moral. A cruel
husband always has a warm heart—for some other
woman,
* * i
, Connor, M.L.C., recited some vei’ses by poet
Parkes in the Vic. Legislative Council last week.
They were stanzas which tlie Bard had heaved off
his soul as far back as 1850. when he gazed upon
Geelong for the first time, and addressed that
future home of chapelism as the “destined
Queen ” of Yictoria, “ Future ages thee shall
own,” squeaked Parkes to Geelong in 1850—“ a
stranger’s blessing rest on thee,, thou embryo
city.” People have often wondered at the strange
blight accumulating upon the pretty town those
40 years, but none ever guessed that it was
Parkes’ Blessing. Maybe the awful thing will
pass away in a century or so, when the ruthless
bestower is gathered to his hirsute ancestors. Or
perhaps they will get Parkes to run down to Gee-
Ibng in the meantime, arid lift it off himself.—
A Sydney suburban constable referred to
a witness of a recent fight as a “gentleman.”
“How do you know him to be a gentleman?”
“Oi’ve seen him use a toothpick.”
# # #
A bold Southern police-sergeant was court-
ing at one and the same time a widow and a pub.
He presented the widow with a lot of “blacks’
blankets ” —Kaween Wikitoria’s birthday present,
at Australian expense, to the loyal aborigines.
She presented them to the pub. In due time, the
sergeant married the widow and owned the pub.
One evening, at tea-time, his sergeant-successor
quietly ransacked the pub. bedrooms, and removed
all the blankets to the police-station. . . .
Later, there was a stir in the bedrooms. “No
blankets.” Off went the enraged publican to the
police-station to lay an information. “ Eleven
pairs of blankets stolen from my hotel.” “When
did the robbery take place?” “This very day.”
“What colour are the blankets?” “Grey.”
“Have they any particular brand on them? I
suppose you can identify them?” Landlord smells
a rat. “ I dunno if I could ; Lucy might. I’ll go
and ask her.” . . At the family council. Lucy :
“ That trap stole them blankets. Best say no
more about’em; but, in fuchur, traps’ll have to
pay full price for all the grog they get here. I
never knew a trap yet that wasn't a crawler.”
Landlord : “What, Lucy !”
# * #
Major-General Tulloch, blathering to the
tournament troops at Melbourne Exhibition :
“ Other nations would see that we had in this
country thousands of well-trained men, ready to
help the old country if required, and anxious for
the chance to maintain the integrity of this great
empire. Tlie teams had been received with feel-
ings of more than kinsmanship—with affection —
by all, from Her Majesty downwards, and the old
country was proud of her Australian boys ”
Editor Bulletin, —“ Outrageous folly ” is
a mild term to use anent the “guard of honour”
incident in connection with the British man-o’-
war Barracouta, “in Steinberger’s time” (see
Bulletin, 19th Aug.). You are a little out in
your numbers. If my memory serves me aright,
the Barracouta lost in that brush one bluejacket
and three marines, besides about a dozen wounded,
some so badly that they had to be invalided out of
the service ; also, the report that 11 Samoans were
killed is under the mark, if my eyes were open,
and I think they were. The “ship’s company,”
of which 1 was.one, never rightly knew the num-
ber of niggers they killed. While your hand is in,
Mr. Editor, you might tell us, if you can, how it
was that none of the officers received a scratch,
though they, including “Nutty” Stevens (Cap-
tain), were “in the thick of the fight?” Also,
did A. B. Steinberger get compensation for
damages from the British Government? —Yours,
&e , Holystone. Cairns, N.Q.
# # #
The N.S.W. cavalry uniform is Spanish.
# '# •
Original h Infant abandoned in a confes-
sional, St. Ignatius’ Church, Richmond, Melb.
* # #
A French lady, in Melb., lately left her
teeth on the mantelpiece, and caught a lodger
trying to fit them into the servant girl’s mouth.
Chief among the novelties of the Blue
Ballet at Melb. Princess’ are the little white, or
pale-blue, patches let into the dark-blue tights of
certain performers. As they trip to the front the
effect of the patches aforesaid is startling.—
Cross v. Cross: another Melbourne Divorce.
Cross purposes.
The teetotal Mayor
of Hobart is chiefly
distinguished for mak-
ing Saturday night
“inspections” of Hobart
public-houses, accom-
panied by a policeman.
* * *
A Perth (W.A.)
sporting tobacconist
exhibits a medal to be
presented to the local
policeman who “runs
in” the most drunks
during the year. One
specified bobby is to
start at “scratch,”
while others get as much
as nine months’ grace !
Which recalls the
vogue in some Cali-
fornian towns whereby
no policeman could
draw his salary until
he had made a certain
number of arrests. The
Perth idea is capable of
extension. Make the
prizes numerous and
valuable enough, and a
skilled hand might earn
decent wages by getting
drunk and being “run
in ” regularly “on com-
mission.”
# * #
At Darlinghursfc
Prison warders do the
floggings. They are
more manly at Mel-
bourne gaol. There the
hangman operates with
both eat and noose, but
on one occasion, a few
years ago, the exeou-
tionerwas notavailable,
and some of the warders
were asked to flage-
llate. To a man they
refused.
Melbourne boy-witness, aged 12 years,
being told to “ stand down ” : “ But ain’t I going
to be allowed my expenses ? I had to put on a
boy in my place. I get Is. a day, and it cost me
a sixpenny fare to come here.” The Bench
“ allowed ” the eighteenpence.
• • «
For work in cuttings at Watts River, Yic.,
which was done at 2s. a yard four years ago,
the Metropolitan Board of Works now pays lOd. a
yard. But the useful depression has not yet
knocked GO per cent, off Chairman Fitzgibbon’s
colossal screw, though.
* # *
A Melb. servant-girl was robbed of £10 —
—the savings of years—a few weeks ago, and now
she has become mad in consequence. Her reason
has gone after her coin. Happy girl! In Kew
Asylum she will enjoy the fancied possession of
millions, and were a warder to offer her a paltry
“tenner,” the haughty girl would take it as an
insult. Most female lunatics pass the time in
writing cheques for £lO,OOO Is. llfd. —these being
curable cures, as a rule. A woman who doesn’t
have elevenpence three-farthings on the brain is
hopelessly mad —so a mad-doctor once told the
writer.
* # •
Another big libel-action is threatened
down South —between a massive medico and the
authorities of a certain hospital for allegations of
maltreatment.
• * #
A Hastings (M.L.) miracle-worker the
other day undertook to cure a farmer of some
back-racking complaint. Planting the old man on
a bed, the miracle-man rubbed in a strong lotion
till the treated part was a fiery red, and then pro-
ceeded to scan his work by candle-light. The
fumes from the farmer lit and exploded. Final
act —an infuriated agriculturist treading a mangled
herbalist to a horrible mash.
# # #
The cable to Pastor Jefferis, asking him to
return from England and take charge of Glebe
(Sydney) Congregational Church, is one more
tribute to the bumptious, pugnacious type of self-
advertising, over-advertised parson. Dr. Jefferis
spent nearly 40 years in Australia, and he
clattered incessantly, and contributed countless
columns to the daily press. It is impossible to re-
call anything he said which might not just as well
have been left unsaid. He arabitioned to be another
Dr. Lang, but, in the first place, the days for a
Dr. Lang had passed, and, in the second, even
though they came again, the sententious and
forceless Jefferis had neither the self-sacrifice nor
the breadth of sympathy the bill demanded.
Whatever his reply td the cable the result will be
unimportant.
* * *
The curse of Deeming has broken out
again in a truly distressing form. A little
daughter of Detective Nixon fell into a tub of
boiling water, last week, and died from the scalds.
# * *
Two Sydney E. News ads. last Week :—■
will please call at once arid avoid trouble.
can’t waste his valuable time avoiding trouble.
, Keep on advertising.
Then there was a profound silence in the “Per-
sonal ” column. 4
» m *
Editor Bulletin, —A still shorter love-
story—full of “local colour,” love, martiage, dis-
cord, treachery, and murder i
Jack’s Gin.
Lips.
• • • • •
Wife.
Friend.
Slips. *
Knife.
The End.
—Yours &c., Dowell O’Reilly,
# # #
According to the Review of Reviews, the
Gladstone Government for a donation of £lO,OOO
to the party exchequer will give an otherwise eli-
gible applicant a baronetcy. Or, for £lOO,OOO a
peerage can be had.
/
THE SHAPELESS SAINT.
ONE OF THE SYLPHS: “That is the great social reformer. She doesn’t
wear stays.”
THE OTHER SYLPH ( contemptuously ): “Pooh! She looks like it.”
Comhativeness and love of domestic life
are practically the same thing. The phrenologist
>vho first realises this fact will make a fortune.
Journalist: “Mention of the Stonewall
and Iron Hand reminds me of a circumstance over
the introduction of the Iron Hand in Melbourne.
One of the caucus was a proprietor of my news-
paper, desperately rawed at being overlooked in
the Stonewall party, wherefore he had changed
sides. Of course I had all the inside information.
I said, ‘Don’t you think the Iron Hand a bit
unfair?' ‘Oh,’says he, ‘Unfair, be ! We’ll
smash ’em, like a (blooming) bug agin a wall!’
With that he banged his fist against the lobby
wainscot.”
TO GEELONG.
Slow city of the living dead,
Where man is ever preaching,
Where matrons dwell in pious dread,
And girls go Bible-teaching ;
Where lovers, if they steal a kiss,
Ask pardon for transgressing!
You’ve only Parkes to blame for this;
He did it with his blessing.
The Bard himself is not a saint;
His wisdom is prodigious,
But some, who know him, say he ain’t
A little bit religious.
He would not put the drama down,
Or ostracise caressing ;
And yet you were a rising town
Until you got his blessing.
Had he bestowed a hearty curse,
And put a black embargo
Upon your trade in cruel verse
(As Georgey d d Chicago),
Your present might be bright and strong,
But—terribly distressing !
He took a fancy to Geelong,
And slew it with his blessing.
Ring the joy bells in the steeple,
Whilst the Majah bangs the gong—
We’re a military people
Wanting wars to come along.
Conflicts gory, gas and glory—
Just as well to pitch it strong.
Thousands of our braves in training
Panting wait to strike a blow
For the Queen who started reigning
Five and fifty years ago.
Drilling, frilling, would-be-killing—
Hurry up the missing foe!
Damn all democratic journals,
Talking peace, instead of fight,
Poking fun at clanking colonels,
Growling at the cost of skite.
Fluster, bluster ; when we muster,
Gosh I we are a gallant sight.
Grand Himperial connection—
Good old love for mother-land.
Queen regards ’em with affection ;
Rule Britannia ! (cue for band).
Swagger, bragger, proud of flag-er—
“ Tighten bonds “—you understand.
THE BLUE BALLET.
Chappies, do not dilly-dally;
Clutch your glasses tight, and rally
To tlie music of the Ballet-
Ballet nice and new ;
Scores,of shapely damsels grouping,
Standing, sitting down, or stooping—
Pick-me-up for spirits drooping,
Pretty Ballet Bilie.
Dainty tints discreetly blended—
Kind of marriage-dance intended—
Altogether dodsid splendid—
Ravishing to view.
Soothing to a sinner’s senses,
Sweet in all its moods and tenses—
Lots of legs and large expenses—
Pretty Ballet Blue.
Chappies ! twig those darlings flitting
Round in tights so closely fitting—
Gwacious ! are they weally splitting —
Chappies, is it true?
When they raise their limbs, unsparing
Of the garments they are wearing—
See, bai Jote ! the tights are tearing!
Pretty Railet Blue.
Gleanyof light that quickly passes—
Chappies, raise your eager glasses.
Sold again, for perfect asses !
Nothing showing through.
Bits of white, let in by scheming
Dress-designer, rightly deeming
That would start us fondly dreaming ;
Pretty Ballet Blue!
Disappointing, dear old chappie.
Still, the notion’s smart and snappy ;
For a moment all were happy—
Quite int’rested, too.
Just at first it looked suspicious—
Vision vain and meretricious !
Some delusions are delicious—
Pretty Ballet Blue.
E. F.
“MY LADYE’S EYES.”
“ Ere we were wed.”
Or are they grey
Or are they blue.
I care not which,
If they be true,
If they be true.
Her hair is sheen,
My dainty queen.
Speak low ! she comes
Across the green,
Across the green.
The moon is high,
The tryst is nigh,
The moments fly.
Farewell! She conies
Across the green,
My queen, my queen,
My dainty queen.
Your eyes are blue,
Your eyes are true.
And so am I,
My love, to you,
To you, to you.
“ Since we were wed.”
Her eyes aren’t blue,
Her lips aren’t red
Her soft hair, too ;
Her hair it red,
Her hair is red.
Her lips are blue,
Her eyes are red—
Her sweet nose, too ;
Her nose is red,
Her nose is red.
Is red, is red.
Her temper’s short,
Her tongue is long.
Her temper’s short,
Her arm is strong
Since we were wed,
Since we were wed.
Beware ! Take care !
Once more she comes
Across the green,
My queen, iny queen,
My dainty queen.
ZETA.
To Readers of “The Bulletin.”
Attention is directed to The Bulletin's
Missing Word Competion (No. G) announced on
cover of this issue.
The nigger Republic of Liberia has three
consuls at Melbourne.
As Abe Lincoln said : “ You can fool all
the people part of the time, some of the people
all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all
the time’’—which means, after all, that the great
Corisiiming public is fair, just and appreciative,
arid “ kriows a good thing when it gets it.” This
js the secret of the phenomenal sale of Frossard’s
Swiss Cigars, arid nothing else.
The “Souvenir of the Marble Bar ” is a
highly artistic illustrated brochure trumpeting the
just fame of tiie great sweep-promoter, George
Adams, who spent =£22,000 in getting built to his
order in Pitt street, Sydney, a marble shrine
jointly dedicated to Bacchus, Pari, Apollo, Diana,
and Hebe. The “Souvenir” contains full techni-
cal description of “ Tatt.’s ” marble wonders, and
gives finely executed illustrations of tlie Austra-
liarily-unique gymnosophistieal paintings-r chlqfiy
the work of Julian R. Ashton—which adorn tlie
interiors, and that cannot fail to Haunt the minds
of thirst-quenching gazers with Carripaspean sug-
gestions. . “Tattersall’s,” Pit.t-street, Sydney, xs
an establishment which no visitor to Sydney, art-
loving arid thirsty, can afford to miss seeing.
Colerriane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give threo
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by imtfihines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to be signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Oolemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
The Home Rule Bill.
When the political history of the nineteenth cen-
tury is read, in years to come, there will be one
measure around which universal interest will
gather-, and that is “The Home Rule Bill,
initiated, guarded, and passed through the House
of Commons by that accomplished statesman, the
Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone. Through its rejec-
tion by the House of Lords a general election is
necessitated. If the Government be victorious,
and a new Parliament re-echo the voice of the
old, the Lords will not, dare not, abrogate to
themselves the right to stultify the intelligence of
Great Britain. “ Let justice be done though the
heavens fall.” Then, and not until then, will
Ireland receive justice, and from that day Eng-
land, Ireland, and Scotland will become, in word
and deed, a United Kingdom. The unanimous
voice of Australia, expressed in unmistakab’e
accents of decision, proclaims that “Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine ” is, par excellence, the tonic of the
age. It spurns all opposition, for it is carried on
the voices of the people that no therapeutical
remedy for weakness, debility, and general de-
pression has ever been placed before the public, so
skilfully blended and so miraculously certain in
its effects, as this unrivalled preparation. The
testimonials to its wonderful efficacy are innu-
merable, and embrace members of every class of
society. Their testimony is unimpeachable.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool is now arriving freely, and fair-sized catalogues
will be submitted for the opening sales of the season on
4th prox. At the auctions this week several small parcels
of new wool were submitted, which may not, however, be
taken as a criterion as to the condition of the coming
clip. A large number of foreign buyers will put in an
appearance this year, and already several of them have
arrived. This is a proof of the superiority of the Sydney
market over the others of the world. We quote good
greasy fleece, 7d to 7|d ; medium, 6d to ; inferior, 5d
to fipl ; pieces, 4d to Gd ; bellies, 3d to 4id ; scoured
fleece, 13d to 14d, for good quality; from 10Jd ;
pieces, 8d to 12 I ; bellies, 7d to lid ; locks, 5d to Bd,
according to quality.
Sheepskins.— There was more animation in the market
this week, caused through an increased demand for ex-
port. They quote best full-woolled from 4jd to 4Jd ;
medium growth, 3Jd to 4d ; short growth and pelts, 2d to
3d per lb. Green skins meet with ready sale-tops bring
from 44d to 66d each; mediums, 28d to 40d; short growth,
15d to 24d each.
Tallow.— At auction, an increased demand was notice-
able. They cleared every line offered at an advance of
about 10s per ton on last week’s rates. Best, mutton
from £22 10s to £23 ; best mixed, £22 to £22 7s Gd;
inferior and trade parcels, £2O to £2l per ton.
Hides. Heavy catalogues forward and late rales well
maintained. Prime heavies from 2Jd to Spl ; heavies,
from l|d to 2d ; medium, Ifd to l|d ; light and dry, Ud
to 2d per lb. Shank Bones, £4 10s to £5. Sheepshanks,
£3 10s to < 3 15a. Common Bones, £llss to £2 ss. Hoofs.
£2 5s ; knuckles, £3 10s per ton. Horns, large, 26s to
325; medium grades, 15s to 255; small, Sato 14<; tips,
2s Gd to 7s Gd per 100. Hair : Cow hair, clean, 9d to lid ;
on the stump, 3d to 5Jd per lb. Calfskins, Is 6d to 3s ;
yearlings to 4s Gd each.
Marsupial Skins.— Market easier, especially in large-
sized kangaroos. Large grey, 36d to 46d ; superior, to
50d ; medium, 21d to 33d; small to medium, Id to IGd ;
wallaroos, large, 12d to 19d ; small to medium, Id to lOd ;
large reds, 19d to 28d ; small to medium, Id to 16d ; bear,
dull of sale; rabbits, Gd to per lb ; wallaby, 2d to
14Jd; rock, l£d to 2|d ; opossum, large, 9d to 12d ;
superior, 15d ; mediums. 5.J-d to 9d ; black, 12d to 23d ;
small and lumped, Id to 4d each.


Ptitoiigations:
- - ■ Xt-i- ->
Pamphlet
tj&OLGAMViE
w r iKiJ , f "-v,
, COLOURED MAP;
Ry Giving Fullest Information;, All Koutes. "®>
STAMPS—iliitiSB SHILLIFtOg.
3potte;ngeh & co.;
, Cromwell Rlildings,
feoUKliE and ELIZABETH STREETS, MELBOURNE {
EAgjMttiilf CijAMBERHj 72Xi.no Street, SYDNE Y.
Banking.
fJIHE CITY BANK OF SYDNEY,
A Special General Meeting of the Shareholders of the
City limit of-Sydney is hereby convened to be held at the
hew Bead Bliiking House of the'Company, Pitt street,
Sydney, on FRIDAY, October 6'Viextj'dt noon precise’}-, *
To confirm or otherwise 'deal with the following resolu-
tion passed at a Special General Meeting of the proprietors
held on July 18, 1893, \ iz.: — ....
1. That, inasmuch as the whole of the authorised capital
Bf the Bank has been full}' subscribed, and it is now con-
sidered desirable to strengthen the position of the Bank,
it is hereby resolved that the Directors he and are hereby
authorised to apply to Parliament for an Act to increase
the capital by a further issue of 100,000 shares of £lO each,
to be offered for subscription in such amounts, with such
HStrictiOnS, on such terms and conditions, and at such
Julies As tn the discretion of the Board of Directors may
be,determined Upon; _ . . ■
That ClrtUse 1 of Part 2 Of the Deed Of Settlement lie
By inserting therein; in lieu of “the sum of
£300,000,” the words “the sum of £1,300,000,” and irj
Ueu of “ the sum of £509)009,” tlie words “ tile sum of
£l;500,00p ”j ; . ; , , :,i \
• 3. Tp.,eiect a Director in the place of S. A. Joseph, Esq.,
resigned.'
By order of the Board.
C. STANTON, General Manager.
Sydney, September 14, 1893.
N.B.—Any Shareholder becoming a Candidate for the
Mflce of Director must give notice of his intention to the
Board of Directors in writing, to he left at the Head Bank-
ing House of tlie Company, PiLtg reef, Sydney, fourteen
•days at least before tlie day of election, as required by
Clause 5 of Part 3 of the Deed of Settlement.
Business Announcements.
Lark, Sons & Co.
■LIMITED),
WAREHOUSEMEN
—ln9
IMPORTERS.
Wynyard Street; Sydney;
ARE OPENING
XEW SEASON’S GOODS
WEEKLY MAIL STEAMERS.
The OALKjMPH Writing Machine,
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph cm always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which w rites
dn a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 129 Caligrajihs in tlie Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s’Mimeograph will produce 1590 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The N'w Special No. 3 Caligraph las two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
0. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collinsstreet;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street; Hobart, J. Waleh & Sons.
«•
Wy/7/.
VMM
-v>
M
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS”
Velveteen
Rich and rare
new colours for
present wear.
♦♦♦♦♦
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BIAjK.
~ The World Renowned
T GUIS” VELVETEEN has this in its favour,
I i besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders It impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL.— Each raid of genuine “ Louis " Velveteen
bears the name impelled L-O-C-LS', and in no other »«•,
and it stamped with a (jnarantee ot wear.
Ladles should reject all substitutes. i
BusiucSs Anfiouttcettieuis.
wAfiufAcTlfftE
Mats
>-°f "j
Merceßj,
a iif
S^VH
S.AQOIUd
rriHKY give a .creditable appearance, which is
JL SETTER than, BANK SOTES, and as
■. t-ioOEf as tf-bLDi , - ' - •
Do not Fade; ore Latest- Fashion,
AND LIGHT-WEIGHT.
World-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s),
AND
678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended ten
WheVe Shall We Dined
‘‘CAFE IviARfIN/*
MARTIN CHAMBERS;
Moore and Pitt Streets, SYDNEY,
opposite General Post Office.
“The City Dinner! ”
A Speciality. The Best and Cheapest in Town.
Fop a tar Lunch eons and Teas.
A First-c'ass Restaurant. A Second-class Tariff.
Perfect Light and Ventilation. Excellent Cuisine and
Table Service.
N.B.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
COME AND JUDGE FOR YOURSELF.
Government Ndticesi;
ilepartiilent of Public Works,
Sydiiey, September 19,1893.
r I fENbEKS iron PUBLIC works AND
JL SUPPLIES.
Fui- bonditiwiis, See GdVaßNiiiUNt Gizaxxi.
‘ i . . * • t i X
TENDERS for tbe Works, &0., sptjyified below
will be received.at this Department untilll o’olook
a.rn. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY,, OCTOBER -I. .
Construction of Concrete Dam and Timber Flood-
gates, Clybucoa Creek, Macleay River
Erection of Powder Magazine, and a Gun Cotton
Store, Spectacle Island
NOTE.--Tenderers are warned not to begin any
work until they receive the official acceptance of
their offer in tlm usual way,\ The Department
will accept no responsibility contracted .by a
tenderer prior to receiving the official acceptance
referred to, and any liability incurred, or any
work undertaken, will be solelj 7 at the risk of
tenderers, and will hot be paid for.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Post arid Electric Telegraph Department;
General Post Office, t
Sydney, 7th September, 1893.
CiONVEVANCE being required for the Post
j Office Mails to and from the undermen-
tioned places from Ist January, 1894, persons
willing to contract for the same are invited to
transmit Tenders in the approved form before II
a.m. on MONDAY, the Kith October next.
Tenders must be addressed to the Deputy Post-
master-General, Sydney, and endorsed “ Tender
for Conveyance of Mails,”
For full particulars see Govkunmenx Gazexxe.
WESTERN ROADS.
1. Blacktown and Prospect Reservoir
2. Riverstone and Rouse-hill
3. Lower Portland and Leet’s Vale
4. Richmond and Kurtajong
5. Richmond and Grose Vale
6. Upper Colo and Howe s Valley
7. Penrith and Wallace
8. Mulgoa and Luddenham
9. Katoomba and Megalong
10. Railway Station and Post-office, Mount Vic-
toria. and Railway Station, Mount Victoria
and Hartley Vale
11. Bell and Mount Wilson
12. Carson Siding and Cullen Bullen
13, Ilford and Sofala
14. Cudgegong and Gulgamree
15. Rylestone and Glen Alice ~
10. Rylestone and Bylong
17. Mudgee and Orudine
18. Mudgee and Gulgong
19. Home Rule and Canadian Lead
20. Gulgong and Cobbora
21. Gulgong and Coolah
22. Cobbora and Gilgandra
23. Merrygoen and Coonabarabran
24. Merrygoen and Coonabarabran
25. Oberon and Black Springs
26. Oberon and Jenolan Oaves
27. Oberon and Duckmaloi
28. O’Connell and Bolton Vale
29. Raglan and Glanmire
30. Railway Station and Post-office, Kelso
31. Bathurst and White Rock
32. Esrom and Millaraurra
33. Hill End and Tambaroora
34. Hockley and Burraga and Judd’s Creek and
Swallow’s Nest
35. Newbridge and Trim key Creek
36. Trunkey Creek and Peelwood
37. Railway Station and Post-ottioc, Blaym-y
38. Blayney and Shaw
39. Blayney and Oarcoar
40. Railway Station and Post-office, Maminranm
41, Mandurarna and Galley Swamp
42. Woodstock and Oanowindra
43. Woodstock and Mount M‘Donald
44. Cowra and Reid’s Flat
45. Millthorpe and Byng
46. Railway Station and Post-office, Orange
47. Orange and Canowindra
48. Orange and Ophir
49. Orange and Springside and C a roar
50. Orange and slarch
51. Oanowindra and Cowra
52, Oanowindra and Eugowra
Government Notices. - —,
53. Mnrga and Rnmberry
54. Forbes and Tturldle
55. Forbes arid Marsderi’s* arid Forbes arid Vuia
Vert'd , , , ,
50; Woodlands Station arid Latlsdalc' ,
57. Woodlands Station and Lansdale, and l’*ud-
dahbuddali Hotel”
58; Condobolin and EauabalotifJ
50. Eanabalorig and Nymagee
60. Nymagefe arid Mourit Hope
61. Hillston arid Mount Hope, and i: Muiriild tl
Well” Hotel and Yatllong
62. Molorig arid Watfie ,
63. Cumnock arid Curidurnbin
64. Obley anjd Toiriingley
65. Parkes arid Rulgandramihe
66. Parses and Trundle ,
67. Trundle and Dandaloo
68. Trundle and M'Aueuy’s . , ■ ■
60. Mullion Creek and Kaugaroobie „ ,
70. Dripstone and Neurea und Baker’s Swamp
71. Wellington and Dubbo
72. Wellington and Parkes
73. Lincoln and Wunlutnan
74. Goobna and Oubbora
75. Dubbo and Cobbora
76. Dubbo and Belarbigill, and Whylandr.i and
Minore
77. Gilgandra and Merigal and Myall Plains
78. Gilgandra and Bullagreeu
79. Gilgandra and Baradine
80. Coonamble and Ooonabarabrari
81. Trangie arid paudalod'
82. Warren arid CoOnamble , .
83. Railway Station and Pdat Office; Nyngat!
84i Nyngan and DandaldQ
85. Nyngan arid'Canon bar
86. Col ar and Nymagee' " '
87. Railway Station and Post Office,' "Bourke
88. Wanaaring and Waverley Downs
89. Enugonia and Wapweelah Station
SOUTHERN ROADS.
1. Liverpool and Bringelly
2. Liverpool and Eckersley
3. Narallan Tramway Platform and Post Office,
4. Narellau and Cobbitiy
5. Douglas and Wilton
6. Oaks and Burragorang
7. Bowral and Robertson
8; Hail Way Station and Post Office, Moss \ ale*
etc , ,
9. Moss Vale and Berrima, twice or oUenef
daily ,
10. Moss Vale arid Sutton Forest, and from Moss
Vale to Sutton Forest
11. Moss Yale and Robertson arid Pleasant
Ground
12. Burra Wang and Yurrunga
13. Kangaroo Valley arid Upper Kangaroo River
14. Sutherland and Crdnulia Beach
15. Wollongong and Mo'vlnt Keint
16. Dapto arid Marshall Mourife
17. Kiama and Jamberoo ,
18. Berry arid Barrongarrj; (
19. Nowra and Cambeytarra ,
20. Nowra and Numba, arid Corner*ui;-;
21. Nowra and Greemvell Point
22. Nowra and Yalwal
23. Milton and Bateman’s Bay
24. Bungonia and Windellama
25. Railway Station and Post-office, Gonlburn
26. Wheeo and Mewburn, and Reid s Flat
27. Taralga and Curraweela, and Jernuig
28. Taralga and Wowagin
29. Tarago and Nadjiugomar
30. Boro and Mulloon
31. Boro and May field
32. Bungendore and Captain’sF’lat
33. Railway Station and Post-office, .(.Jut aubejbvn
34. Bred bo and Ballalaba
35. Jindabyneand Mooubah , ;
36. Buckley's Crossing-place and BoloHo
37. Buckley’s Crossing-place arid Jimmbuaii
38. Nimitybelle and Lyttleton
30. Lyttleton and Bega
40. Nimitybelle and Bobundaralf
41. Nimitybelle and Kybean
42. Delegate and Wright’s
43. Delegate and Corrowoug, arid Sandy CfecK
44. Adaminaby and Rosedale
45. Braid wood and Nerriga, and Nowra
46. Braidwood and Mongarlowe
47. Braidwood and Little Bombay
48. Major’s Creek and Ballalaba
49. Major’s Creek and Krawarree
50. Ballalaba and Krawarree
51. From Ballalaba to Braidwood, and from
Braidwood to Krawarree
32. Mornya and Kiora
53. Enrobodalla and Nerrigundah
54. Tilba Tilba and Bermagui
55. Cobargo and Yowrie
56. Bega and Eden
57. Bega and Candelo
58. Eden, Kiah, and Timbilica ]
59. Kiah and Green Cape
60. Yarra and Thornford
61. Breadalbane and Merrilla
62. Breadalbane and Collector
63. Breadalbane and Gurrundah
64. Gunning and Wheeo
65. Rye Park and Mewburn
66. Yass and Wee Jasper
67. Wee Jasper and Cooradigboe
68. Burrowa and Reid’s Flat
69. Railway Station and Post-office, Muvruia-
hurrah
70. Murrumburrah and Barwang
71. Cunningham and Marshall M‘Mahon Reef
72. Railway Station and Post-office, Young
73. Young and Grenfell
74. Young and Marsden’s
75. Young and Morangarell
76. Grenfell and Forbes
77. Grenfell and Brundah Creek
78. Marsden’s and Ungarie
79. Railway Station and Post-office, Coota-
mundra
80. Stockinbingal and Moragarell
81. Temora and Merrengreen Station
82. Barmedman and Ungarie
83. Coolac and North Gobarralong
84. Coolac and Jngiong
85. Gundagai and Tenandra Park
86. Brungle and Rosemonnt
87. Adelong and Hillas Creek
88. Gilmore and Batlow
89. Tumut and Blowering and KSandra
90. Tarcutta and Molloy’s
91. Tooma and Khancoban
92. Bethungra and Lower Yammatree
93. Harefield and Yathella
94. Jnnee Junction and Temora
£5, Jnnee Junction and Cooba
96. Enrongilly and Wagga Wagga
97. Wagga Wagga and Mangopla
98. Wagga Wagga and Oollingullie
199. Wagga Wagga and Little Billabong
100. Mangopla and Gcrmantou
101. Urana and Corowa
102. Urana and Guest’s Selection
103. Railway Station and Post-office, .leiilderic
104. Jerilderie and Daysdale
105. La weed ale and Middled ale
106. Deniliquin and Finley
Government Notices.
107] froffl'Tmd to Moulamein, Bremner’s, 9.
Macauley’s, Plot tin aivs, Neil Macauley s,
Beresford’s, Muddy’s, Plumridge’s and
Me teal fe’a f. .
108. Mulloflgandnt and Motvetl l
109. Albury and Mahonga and U rail a
110. Coolamatl via Roach’s, Lea ter field School
ReabelgeFs. Munro», W. Robinsons,
tippet - Ouriawafna School,- A. Booth’s, D.
, Boynton’s, Griffiths/ and Qobbagombalitl
111. NatfandeLt alid Mututidah
112. Narraridehl and YaltiOgnri
113. Barellari arid Ytdfc'ogrm
li t. Merool Creek and Morint Ida;
115’. lingerie arid Boorabil xirid Lake CudgriHibo’
116. tdifgarife'arid Coridobofiri
117. Bygalorje arid Gonclobolin ,
118. Dialing ton. Kail way Statlori ririd Dailingtcri
Point Post-office
lift. Carrathoql and Hijlstori
120. Bpoligahand Oxley . ,
121 s . Mdssgiel arid -Belfiraboun ’•
1*237 Nunnagbyt arid’RbbftdfObk
123. Broken-hill and Men indie
NORTHERN ROADS.
1. Wyong Creek and Yarramolong
2. William Town and Salt Ash
3. Wallsend-Plattsburg and Young Wallsend
4. Hexham Railway Station and Raymond
Terrace, and Raymond Terrace and Turee
0. Raymond Terrace and Nelson’s Plains
0. Raymond Terrace and Miller’s Forest
7. Bootal .and Biilahdelall
8; Gloucester arid,Cpjpeland North
9. Barringtori arid Rawden Vale and Curf'aria
, . tier It , ....
10. Tinonee friis KjpfjbHlß
11. Tariee and' Pamfjoolali
12. Taree and Forster 1 ■
13. Wingham and Woodside
14. Wingham and Marine
15. Knorrit Flat and Candle Flat
16. Cundletown and Upper Lansdown
17. Croki and Mitchell’s Island
18. Coopernook and Harrington
19. Kempsey and Bell ingen
20. Pelican Island and Rainbow Reach
21. Macksville and Nambucca Heads
22. Macksville and Bowravillo
23. Bellingen and Gleniffer
24. Never Never and Dorrigo
25. East Maitland and Mount Vincent
26. West Maitland and Paterson, and Dungog
27. West Maitland and Wolloinbi, and Cessnoek
and Ellalong,
28. Oresford and Lostock
29. Railway Station and Post-office, Morpeth,
and llintoH
30. Diingog and Ban don Grove
31. Bendolba and Underbank
32 Wolloinbi and Pay he’s Crossing
$3. Whittirigharri and Broke
34. Sirigleton and Mitchell’s Flat
35. Singletori and Rix’s Creek, or
36. Railway Platform arid Post-office/ Rix’Sf
,Creek , . .
37. The Brilga and Howe’s Valley
38. Muswellbrook and Wybong
"39. VRiawellbrook and Muscle Creek
40. Denman and .Kerrabee
41. Kerrabee and WqJlar t
42. Kerrabee and Widden
43. Merriwa and Idavillo
44. Oassilis and Turee Creek
45. Cassilis and Coolab
46. Binnaway and Coolah
47. Railway Station and Post-office, Scone, &e.
48. Scone and Bunnan
49. Belltrees and Stewart’s Brook
50. Moonau Brook arid Hanging Rock
M. Bland ford arid Nundle
52. Railway Station and Post-office, Quirindf
53. Quirindi and Wall a bad all, arid Fair view.
54. Wallabadaih and Nu’ndle
55. Curlewis and Wonduba
56. Gunriedalt and Coonabahlbra.lV
57. Rocky Glen and Baradine
58. Oooriabarabran and Blautyre Station
59. Coonabarabran and Pilliga
60. Boggabri arid Lindsay Station
61. Boggabri aind Rocky Glen
62. Narrabri and Moree
63. Walgett arid Goodooga
64. Meroc and Canvin’s
65. Moree arid Talarga
66. Moree and J. Stancombe’s
67. Walien and Gil Gil
68. Kunopia and Mungiudi
69. Currabnbula and Clifton Station
70. Tamworth and Nundle, and Hanging Rock
71. Tamworth and Moor Creek
72. Manilla and Bendemeer
73. Carroll and Manilla
74. Barraba and Gineroi
75. Bingara and Moree
76. Warialda and Wallangra
77. Railway Station, Moonbi, and Post-offices,
Moonbi and Bendemeer
78. Bendemeer and Kingstown
79. Waloha Road and Walcha
80. Walcha Road and Glon Morrison
81. Uralla and Salisbury Plains
82. Uralla and Rocky River
83. Tingha and Stannifer
84. Armidale and Bnndarra
85. Armidale and Castle Doylo
86. Guyra and Tingha
87. Guyra and Aberfoil School
88. Ben Lomond Railway Station and Wands
worth
89. Glencoe and Graham’s Valley
90. Railway Station and Post-office, Deepwater ;
and Deepwater and Emmaville
91. Deepwater and Nine-mile, and Torington
92. Emmaville and The Gulf
93. Emmaville and Webb’s Consols
94. Bonshaw and Yetraan
95. Tenterfield and Lismore
96. Drake and Pretty Gully
97. Lawrence and Casino
98. Brush Grove and Coldstream
99. Ulmarra and Upper Coldstream
100. Grafton and Bellinger
101. South Grafton and Upper Orara, and Oral a
River Crossing and Glenreagh
102. Coraki and Casino
103. Wharf and Post-office, Lismore
104. Lismore and Dorroughby Grass
105. Lismore and Baltina
106. Lismore and Jiggi
107. Warded and Alstonville
108. Post-office and Wharf, Ballina
109. Uallina and Brunswick
110. Ballina and Upper North Creek
111. Coorabell Creek and Mullumbimby
113. Murwillumbah and North Tumbulgum
SUBURBAN ROADS.
1. General Post-office, Sydney, and Post-offices,
Redfern and Alexandria
2. Post-office, Balmain and Steamer's Wharf,
Stephen street, Balmain
3. Railway Station and Post-office, Hyde.
JOHN KIDD.


AXTSTRALIAKT
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1549
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society -established in Australasia, and the only one which
iW DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors - The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy ■Chairman ; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT.
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, I'M.A., F.E.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions Sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £604,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Office: 87 FITX STREET, SYDNEY.
RdBERT B. CAMERON; secretary;
m
rum T'ji
"i
V
cA. XJ LFIEL D OXT F Octoher ll k Infck
50,000 at 10 50,000
m ELBoxrnisrE cup — Flemliigloii* \ov<‘iiilkt J, 1813.
100,000 tar at »o lOO,OOO
“ i i l l l IMM "
Caro of Okorgk Adams.
“The Ti-lc'j i;tj>1 1 Cliacibvis,
• i| KKN STUEKT,
Ei. I i>, <inecM)»laiMl
ADAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PTTT STREET, SYDNEY.
mHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
A- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings,
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Fitt Street, Sydney.
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C?
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, cither with
Steam or Electric Power —Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Seeders.
Launches of specially I fight Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND.
"The Hulletin’s ” Missing Word Competition.
Attention is drawn to the date on which The
Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition, No. 6,
closes. The coupon is to be found on the red cover
of this issue.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
ghj
BALSAM
■ IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &0.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists i.x Bottles Is. Ud. ?«. 9d.,
4s. Cd.. and 11s'
Prepared only by A. HA VIVIAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Carter & Co?
XhjauTabliE
NDM REVERSIBLE
rpHIS Ingeniously Constructed BILLIARD DIXIXG-
-L TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—2S to SV/i Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
XTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds.” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swakston Street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Theatre royal-
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
Stage Manager .. Mr. A. Harford.
Bus. Manager .. Mr. GEO. BULLER.
To-Night (Thursday) and To-morrow Night,
'* belphegor, THE MOUNTEBANK.”
Saturday Night, “REL, THE ROMANY.”
Box Plan at Theatre. Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra
Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.; and Family Circle, Sixpence.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Miss MAGGIE MOORE
in
“STRUCK O I Ij.”
Followed by the Amusing Farce,
“THE CHINESE QUESTION.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 21-“ THE MOUNTEBANKS.”
FRIDAY, September 22,
“THE VICAR OF BRAY,” and “TRIAL BY JURY.”
SATURDAY, Sept. 23—“ PEPITA.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
A RT SOCIETY OP N. S WALES
**■ 70 PITT STREET.
THE 14th ANNUAL EXHIBITION
of
Oil Paintings, Water-Colours, Sculpture,
IS NOW OPEN.
drrat Art Union at Is. per Ticket,
To be Drawn on Closing Day.
Prises ranginr/ from £3 3s. to £53 10s. mine.
Tickets obtainable at the Exhibition.
C. VAN DE VELDE, Hon. S c.
PATENT JUMP-SEAT SULKIES'
Send for Price-list and Photos.
NEWTOWN CARRIAGE CO., SYDNEY.
C HEAP J USTc.
The celebrated BARN DANCE, by Leonaid Gautier ;
and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Ducts, &c., at 3d. each.
Of all dealers, or from the publishers;
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Mu.l. MOLONEY,
l»4ii m i fSTItEET (u<‘;sr Sired).
(opposite Gunsler's)
SYDNEY,
£2U Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5
V-E O- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
PT 1 THREE CHANCES.
“ Yorkshireman’s” selections
—FOR
EPSOM AND METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should he obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Referef. News
and Star. |'W “ VORKSHIRRMAN,” e o \V. J. Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
IT6a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.O.)V
Telephone, No. 1512..
A
>*r «
Member of Tuttersall's (London), Taf tetsail’s (S.rdiny),
and Victorian Club (Melbourne). Executes Commission;
on all events throughout the Colonies. Double oi
Straight-out. USUAL WEEKLY DOUBLES. All Tele-
grams, &c.,must be pre-paid, and no Commission must
be considered executed until a reply is received.
'
5. EACH.
X
5. EACH
gh
T^SSSr
jg
CAULFIELD CUP, 14 th October.
At 5 each. 20,000 At 5 each.
First .. .. 1500
Second .. .. 500
Third .. .. 250
S. (d) .. .. 600
N.S. (d.).
20 at 20.
50 at 10
100 at 5
.. 400-
400
.. 50f(;
501
175 Consolation Prizes at 2, 350.
Less 10 per cent.
83FT” 345 Extra Cash Prizes 345
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November
At 5 each. 50,000 At 5 each.
First .. .. 5000
Second .. .. 2000
Third .. 1000
S. (d) .. .. 1000
N.S. (d)
25 at 20
50 at 10
100 at 5
.. 1600
.. 500
.. 500
.. 600
250 Consolations at 2 each, 500,
Less 10 per cent.
425 Extra Cash Prizes 425
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November.
At 10 each. 20,000 At 10 each. (For Horses only.)*
Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q,
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY,
mr
1
v.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TIIK C'KINCFA'T,' situated 631
OEOROE STREET (handy to Railway), ami the other U
the “POST OITUT,,'* situated 50 KINO STREET',
and near the General Post Olll.'o.
Proprietor CIO. H. 11.1.15,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It may have been pardonable ambition that
Induced Blackball! to try for a record score against an
extremely weak Oxford and Cambridge “ Past and Pre-
sent ” team, instead of playing the old game of going for
a win. The Australian score of 843, though it beats
that of a celebrated Melb match, Smokers v. Non-
Smokers, by 40 runs, has been exceeded. In 'B2, the
Orleans Club, playing against Rickling Green, totalled
920 runs; the writer fancies that Orleans team included
several Australians. Had Blackham declared the innings
closed at the end of the second day’s play, with 805 ruOs
and two wickets to fall, there would have been a chance
of getting the Universities men out twice in the same day
and scoring a win instead of a draw.
* * ft
An English paper says that none of the present
Australian Eleven are likely to follow in the footsteps of
Bonnor, M'Donnell, or Massie—men who invariably made
runs when wanted. The same might have been said about
the howlers. Turner and Giffen are probably just as good
with the hall as Spoflorth and Palmer. But they have not
Hie knaok which these latter players had of pulling
matches out of the fire.
« « •
We look in vain for a repetition of the old,
desperate, up hill battles of the past, when matches were
won by Ausiralian teams through sheer nerve and pluck.
Thopresent team is full of good batsmen, but none of
them can make runs at a pinch, as Massie did when he
scored 50 odd against All England on a miserable, sodden
wicket, where no other batsman could shape at all. Tiiere
seems to be a want of “ luck” about the present lot—an
absence of that mysterious power of succeeding under
difficulties which characterised the earlier teams. This
crowd seems somehow to he beaten by any All England
team before it goes into the field. With the old teams,
the stronger the opposition the more dashing and resolute
was the fight they made.
# # #
There is a Maori word which expresses the thing
exactly. It is the word mana, and it is hereby adopted
into the English language. Mana means luck and pres-
tige, and the power of winning. With the Maoris, a chief
who was famous for pulling off numerous up-hill fights,
was considered to have great mana. His mana was
not, as some people think, merely the reputation he
gained by his successes. It was the quality of compelling
success which attached to him and which pulled him
through. Mana is a kind of “mozzle” which is always
in, simply because the owner is doggedly resolved that it
won’t be out.
* * *
Blackham is a cricketer of great mana. He
will go in and get runs at desperate pinches when
’• better” men fail miserably. Murdoch was another.
There was an atmosphere of success about the immortal
Billy which encouraged his team and dismayed their
opponents. One or two such men are badly wanted in
this team, and they could advantageously replace men
who are, perhaps, better cricketers. This team wants
■some men to put heart into it.
m • •
We all of us know lots of players in all sorts of
games who are undeniably good men, and yet they never
seem to win. Plenty men will play billiards splendidly
in practice, hut go down badly in matches. Other men
only come out strong in a match. By nerve-force
they seem to excel themselves at critical moments just
when other men fail. John Roberts is a billiard player of
the greatest mana. It is not that he is particularly
lucky; and there are plenty men playing billiards with
hist as much nerve as he has, but somehow he. can win.
m m *
Old Bill Beach had great mana. Look at the
race with Gaudaur, when he was passed near the winning-
post and dropped his sculls, apparently a beaten man.
He took a few gasps of breath and then went on doggedly
and it just so happened that the other man couldn’t raise
the requisite effort to get home, and Beach struggled in a
winner. Dooley, the Sydney pugilist, was a man without
any mana. He was a particularly clever boxer, a hard
hitter, and dead game ; and yet he hardly ever won a
fight. Upward, the Victorian rowing man, had such pres-
tige that the men felt invincible when he was in the boat.
And Abbott, the N.S.W. footballer, was the backbone of
the whole 15. Upward and Abbott were men of great
mana. They could win.
• • 9
Returning to’the Australian Eleven— it is all
very well to attribute their defeats to unsteadiness,
quarrelling, and so on. But it happens that the most
notoriously unsteady men are the ones who are doing
best; and no matter how much they may quarrel
privately it is hardly likely to affect their cricket. Taking
them, man for man, with the exception of Walter Giffen,
they are probably just as good a team as ever left these
shores. And yet they have shown so little luck, pluck,
and nerve that authorities on the game consider them no
better than a second-class county eleven. They have
disgraced their reputations: they have no mana : they
had better come home.
mm*
“The starting difficulty ” is now a cant phrase
with Melbourne sporting writers. A few years ago they
sang one eternal hymn of praise to “the prince of
starters,” and The Bulletin stood alone in protesting
that a number of races at Flemington and elsewhere were
oraetically decided by the fall of the flag.
# # #
Mr. Samuel Cook’s dissatisfaction with the
V.R.C. handicapping has resulted in the publication of
figures which go to prove that Cook’s horses are constitu-
tional losers. Since Nov. 7th, 1891, he has won two races
out of 56 starts under Mr. Dakin’s weights, and only once
out of about 50 starts in races where the V.A.T.C. handi-
capper drew up the scale. Yet he conies up smiling t
every ipeeting, and the little punters display a fatuou s
interest in bis horses. No wonder die bookmakers love
and admire old, unlucky Sam Cook.
# # #
According to the eternal fitness of things
Strahan, in the Glenloth stable, ought to win the Caul-
field Cup. When the O.C. list was first called over at a
.Melbourne sporting club the name of Strahan provoked a
laugh. “ I’ll lay £lOO to half a crown ’ini, anyway,” said
a bookmaker. The wager was snapped up. A few days
later Strahan won a nice handicap, and the lucky backer
can now "hedge” his 2s. fid. at 25 to 1 if he likes, and
stand £97 to nothing on the horse for the Caulfield Cup.
# * *
In Maoriland, last year, there was <£010,298
invested in the totalisator (legalised).
« » *
Ye gods! What a change! Three Chesters
started red-hot favourites on Sa‘ nrday at Randwick, and
not one ran into a place even.
* » •
The five very moderates who fought the A. J.C.
Derby might just as well have been started from the five
furlongs post, for up to that point any cart-horse could
have kept alongside them. All the way up the straight it
looked like Solatium's race, hut opposite the stand, Gar-
diner fairly lifted Trenchant along, and the Trenton colt,
by sheer pluck, won half a length from Solanum.
# « »
Randwick was a veritable cemetery as regards
“stiffs ” on the first day of the A.J.C. meeting ; and if at
least two horses, who ran nearer last than first, come out
later in the meeting and score wins, without a carpeting
of their owners, the contention of the pony people, that
Randwick is as easy for “ funny business " as any other
place, will be borne out. ‘ HJSg
• # *
Mr. Bob Sutton-Sievier, erstwhile Melbourne’s
cash bookmaker and the “ plugger ” of Lord Beerthirst,
is suing a party named Farrer for slander damages - he
having alleged that Robert cheated at cards.
# * *
At Richmond (Vic.) last week, the trotter
Osterley defeated the pacing mare Mystery in two straight
heats. In the first heat, Osterley won in 2.25 putting up
an Australian record.
* * « «
Darley writes : “The Melbourne impression is
that the suspended jockeys will be liberated for the
Melbourne Cup, but not for the Caulfield.”
• * «
N.S.W. military officers had five half-holidays
during A.J.C. race-week. It is not half a had dodge to
give the Commandant a free pass to all meetings.
# m ’*
At the Cyclists’ Combined Clubs’ meeting on
Sydney Association Ground last Saturday, the Mile
Championship of N.S.W. was a great race, Kerr, Brown
and Hodgkinson finishing in the order named, a few inches
only separating the three. Kerr did the mile in 2min.
35sec.—putting up a record. In the Five-mile race there
was a regular Caulfield Cup smash. In the 18th lap
Hodgkinson’s and Kerr’s wheels touched, when the former
came a terrible cropper, and over him fell Wilmot, Isles,
Pither and Hall, all of them getting a severe shaking.
Kerr’s machine was damaged, spoiling his chance, and
Hayward won rather easily from Nicklin in 14min. 12Jsee.
Maiorilander Wilmot did a great sprint in the Half-mile,
as, starting off scratch, the winner of his heat was only a
foot ahead of him at the end of the half-mile—covered in
the record-time of Imin. 10 2-ssec.
# ft *
Harry Pearce, of Hobart, who last week won,
at Hobart, the catch-as-catch-can wrestling championship
of Australia, against Eugene Kneehone, of Melbourne, by
four falls to three, was found to be badly injured after the
contest, and, at the date of late advices, was in Hobart
hospital in a state of collapse.
# * #
Jack Hamilton, M.P. (Q.), has been again dis-
tinguishing himself with the “ barkers.” At 20yds., Jack
scored 41 out of a possible 42, the world’s record being
the full possibility. At 25yds., he holds the world's record
for revolver-shooting—4l out of 42, made in Sydney last
year. He has now carried off the Q. Rifle Association
revolver-championship with 93 out of a possible 126 —36 at
20yds., 31 at 30yds., and 26 at 50yds. The regulation-
revolver match, 50yds., was won by Senior-Sergt. Savage,
with 27 ; Jack and a namesake, Captain F. Q. Hamilton,
tied for second place with 23 apiece. The “Captain ” was
also second in the championship, hut was 20 points behind
“ Jack.”
At a 'bunt club dinner down South the other
day, the M.ll. said it had been proposed to have a cross-
country race open only to the press, but as probably half
the journalists would be killed in "the field, and die oilier
half damned for the lies they would write about their
prowess, the idea was abandoned.


S 47
J 4 7
PILL
arcade:
yTIWy
ill PALACE
m
BWMBW
U
Herr Rassmussbn’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known (o the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-street, S> dney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine n ine ly for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary (o say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALP A LIXP
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no m tier how caused, and there are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigcrator and Restorer.
Herf RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
ks well gs several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
?ay that his Remedies hove cured more than al 1 others put
together for the same complaint.
The A LFA LINE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory. Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dvs-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
po matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms., \ Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WAPXIXG,— Imitators will be Prosecuted',
IMPORTANT,—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourhe-street, Melbourne.
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
alfa mars
VITALITY PILLS.
jgapsas
- y -
r Jf ■ ■
m
1 .
ALFA LIN
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BL-OOD fe NERVES,
AWARDED
TWO ftOLDf
(medals
O)
£
hj
S tt"
Specicil Powerful Course, 435, (id,, posted, Ordinary Course, 235, (id; Poxes, (is, and 12s,
and. 3Purely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials,
SEND’ FOR iITS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS;
Opinions of the J*ress of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies hav e
been the ,means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”— Sydney Bulletin.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us .some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
. “ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers Ilian $ll other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.” —N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”- Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’apress noticis agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”— S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
, : "Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktow.n
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
. 36/-, 12 - and 23 6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3 -, 6/-, 12 - and 23, 6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.'
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate.
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3 - and - 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Cotrtplc.xion and removes Pimples.'
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc; Packets, posted, 3'-
and 6 -
Alfaline Eucalyptus OH.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 16.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2-; posted, 1 6 and 2,6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1 6‘.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.'
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD,
take a' Course of'
ALFA LINE LOCK PILLS.
, Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN "AFFECTIONS.
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d,
Alfaline Leucorrhoea Ponders,
For the Whites. Posted, Sf- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr HASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
.ATT 1 “PTTJS* T=rPP, A T\Tn-H —
ALSO -A.T HIS BEAHCHES :
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne. ! 160 Queen Street, Brisbane, j 154 Bundle Street, Adelaide, f9l Lambton Quay, W el’ton, N.Z
“The Last of Six; Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc, from The Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Co. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.VV.
Energy* ambition,
Cheerfulness, Strength,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
and Perfect Health,
May be secured by all who follow the example
Of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. x6i 15th
St, Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A.
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
READ THIS STATEMENT;
“Every spring for years I have had intolerable
headaches, and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and pain. My
druggist bad known me from childhood and
'«sw?
■tl
%
advised mo to take, early in the spring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla, I commenced using it in March, and
have not had, since then, the first symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, and I perform
my daily duties with a cheerfulness and energy
that surprises myself. I take pleasure in telling
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use.”— Lizzib W.
Dk Veau, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
Barry’s Tricopherous
• -C: t
HAIR
FOR THE
and
SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald'
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the akin.
Ileal < c:;f a, burns, bruises and sprains'
tienulue has trade-mark Barclay &■ to., »e w York,
JI Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
gh
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the <
richest and purest of milk, combined i
with the nutritious and digestible <
parts of wheat and malted barley. (
Malted milk is not to be cooked,<
no milk is to be added ; it is quick 1} <
and readily prepared for instant use <
by dissolving in water. <
IWALTED MILK is the best food for In *
luL fants, “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.'
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
Malted milk, as a food for in- 1
valids, surpasses all other light diets.'
Being most nutritious and easily .
assimilated, it is constantly pres-!
cribed by the Medical Profession !
in England and America. “ Very .
palatable, and free from adulterants.” j
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep Indefinitely In any climate,
Of all Chemists and Druggists. j
Wholesale Agents : 4
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane, j
HALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HIU, LCfterN. E.O. <
<S>
'V
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
Mn'i he obtained
Of «n;/ ChcmUt or
iVr/imiei'.
PllOg.
-o'
Hewareof imitations. The genuine is signed
▼•AftE KAR
jg
KIIMIAS’S BIHIiDIiraS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
6
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
5
Ifhc Blew Stand ||ortrait,
Size, 9x7 in.,
ISs. rru dozen. Jos.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
ffieettims
•Valueerm
ttftmmUer
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool amt Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ac.
And preserves the THR SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, 08, HABD WATER,
Ti . More effectually than any other preparation.
Itls delißhtfnlly rooi.iva ami Refreshing if applied to
the Face or Hands alter heii. * out in the Sun. Tennis-
playing Yachting, fee. It removes all Heat ami Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stine* of Insects, etc., and imports
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which isßodelightiul.
Trice in England, Is. A 2«. Ca, Solo Makers*
M. BEKTIIAM <!bB<)N. f Oiel'enimm. I ntTnnd
AND
On an Old Bush Grave.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A grave ! Here where the Barwon’s waters haste
From the lone sameness of the solemn bush
To join the rapture of the boisterous waste,
As men to cities speed ; beyond the rush
Of steam or commerce, and amid the hush
Of sleeping Nature, is some lone one’s bed,
Whom fate or crime from human haunts did
crush
His name and story, as his body, dead,
And traceless as the course on which his soul has
fled !
Here lies, perchance, the prey of tavern’s greed ;
Or bold prospector victim of his own ;
A flying felon into new chains freed—
In very Freedom’s bondage bushed and lone!
A bold bushranger baffled, desperate grown,
Who last robbed Law, and stole his life away;
Or swagman aged, nought leaving to bemoan ;
Nor stone nor prayer doth dedicate this clay—
Mayhap the corpse revived still unrevealed would
stay 1
And wherefore flowers, of smile and breath divine,
Own parent-ashes whom their looks deny ?
Why morning’s wail, dispelled by evening’s wine,
Ask stone to flaunt its vain hypocrisy ?
Obscurity in death scarce claims a sigh—
What epitaph to it can honour lend ?
Better in graves like this such ashes lie—
Sad Ibis perched above, where willows bend,
And tears with drooping Myalls incense blend !
E.H. MACARDLE.
Walter Besant, through a printer’s erro 1
in the Bombay Gazette, once wished London
Punch long life and immorality.
Thus the Topic, a Canadian papeF
(Petrolea, Ontario): —
There has been a decrease in cattle-raising in certain
districts of the Australian Alps, estates being planted with
forests, so as to be used for hunting purposes, owing to
lack of labour and the indebtedness of the peasants.
In return for this advt., we hasten up with some
original information respecting Canada ;—“ The
sandy deserts of the Canadian Lake Country have
been cut up into quarrying areas, and, while rope-
factories have been established everywhere,
oases of cultivation have been created at intervals,
where the peanut groves blossom with gourd-like
fruit, 3000 tons to the acre being an average crop,
wherever old-Indian bonedust is the manure in
free use. Agriculture is thus the winsome house-
keeper of manufacture.”
Dear Bulletin, —I think Protection as a
live principle is doomed in Western N.S. W. Dibbs
has dajnned it and Willis has killed it. This con-
stituency is thoroughly disgusted at the blustering
bumptiousness of a member of Parliament who
fears to face his Bourke constituents. Blatant,
blusterous, and boisterous in Sydney he crouches
like a whipped hound at the bare idea of facing
the boys in Bourke. Hence a strong feeling
against Willis in the constituency, and this
feeling (a purely personal one) is described in the
Western Herald as a reaction against Protec-
tion, and is hailed as a pure Freetrade reforma-
tion ! It will have the same effect, of course, as
very likely a freetrader will jump the seat. Willis,
at first by his bluster, and lately by his tunkirvss,
has played it low down on his Projectionist
supporters, of whom 1 was One.
“We are still, despite 6ur veneer of
partial civilisation, liable tooutbursts of unreason-
ing ferocity. There can be no real civilisation or
progress until we have acquired insight and self-
restraint enough to fender ferocious legal retalia-
tion impossible. Savagery will never cure
savagery, and to flog a man for any offence, no
matter how brutal, is to sanctiori his brutality ! ”
—Lombroso.


hjg
M BUENBY- WALLIS and CO.
(y. M‘JtVHNKY \
E. S. WALLIS J
A. HJSNSOti J ?
is to
WOOL
I years with the late Firm of MORT & od, and GOLDSBROUGH. MORT & CO. (Limited)
& PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Litoeral Cash Advances if requireii.
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR,
Kacb. Department managed fey a xxj.eixa.fee** of
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY
Wool Warehouses : Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY. _
and ANY OTHER PRODUCE,
Firm..
A COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
The Best Dressing
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
5»g5 ill.?®
if^S;."-^ 1 " I
c°;»s
**2S
Is;:;
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
uriance,
and color
to an ad-
van c e d
period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as ’perfect a substitute for the oil
supplied by nature, in youth and health, as
modern chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
'The name — Ayer —is prominent on the
Wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
OURNALIST, with eight years’ experience
on Sydney metropolitan press, desires en-
gagement as Sub-Editor or Repotter —or as Editor
'of country paper. “ Journalist,” Bulletin office.
FQOP
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-GLYCOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These goods are free from Animal Genus and keep good
in any Climate,
To be obtained from all Druggists d Stores.
Worthy of attention
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for <£l9
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£5O.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS,
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL REDUCED PRIONS.
i If unable to pay its a personal visit, write fot our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS;
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 66.] [Established iB6O.
fJULES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893.
NAMBEOK and MBLTOK PAEK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
O?H.e only Agricultural Property Distribution!
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments
“ NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties:
First Property, estimated value £30,000
Third ~ ~ 7,000
Fourth ~ ~ 3,000
Fifth „ „ 2,000
Sixth „ ~ 1,600
Also, 54 Properties ~ each 1,050
4
20
2
100
it
ii
ii
ii
from £560 fco 990
each 550
£495 and 540
each 34
.l:—.
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated value £12,000
Also, 59 Properties ~ each 1,050
5 ~ ~ from £560 to 990
1 >» >» 310
Mamtorok House.
On 15th|JULY, only £26,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required.
LOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the Press) is to take place without
)VFMRVn and results will be duly advertised. All moneys are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure. P. P. LABERTOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major
ER,"Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J, WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z.
The BALL
fail in NOV El
C. M. OFFICER,
The FIRST B ALLOT will be from the (( NA 3IHHOK ” Estate , which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (out of a total of
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
APPLICATIONS for PROSPECTUSES, SHARES and all Particulars should be made by
Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY,
co R. Newton & Co., BRISBANE (O.).
PROSPECTUSES, PLANS, and all PARTICULARS can also be obtained on
Application to
TRe Columbian. Land DistriTbution. Go.,
c/o J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two addressed envelopes with 4d. in stamps for reply and
result. Do not attach stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is made by cheque.
N.B.—ln the case of the extra .£20,700 not being subscribed by November, the best value of pro*
perty for the amount subscribed will be included in the pvo vato. drawing, and a proportionate per-
centage of bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per cent, short, cho Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed the Shareholders.
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
ISV3.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
JS
Name
A iMr ess
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co.
REFERENCES can be made to the well-known Finns ol Messrs, ALEXANDER WILSON CO., of Sydney, and Messrs. RICHARD NEWTON & CO., of Urishanc.
A South Melbourne man sustained an
attack of lock-jaw whilst swearing at his wife one
day last week. Another blasting accident.
Nearly everything at the Imperial Insti-
tute (remarks a London writer) is foreign, except
the barmaids and the insolence of the officials.
These latter are quite English.
An Australian Irishman’s opinion : “The
Post-office Savings Bank is the best, bekase ye can
bank yer money to-day, give a week’s notice, and
take it out to-morry.”
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
“ True unto death” was the motto of the
young woman engaged to Cooke, the police con-
stable, hanged the other day in London. The
poor girl waited outside the prison door and
refused to move away until she was told that her
lover had actually been butchered. To the last
she had hope of a reprieve being granted.
Prohibition, after a lengthy trial in Kansas
(U.S.), seems a lamentable failure. In Kansas,
the man who wants a drink simply makes affidavit
that he has some complaint requiring whisky—
and then gets it from a chemist. One Topeka
chemist took 254 affidavits in a month, and they
covered nearly every disease on record, down to
one case of “ fistula in a horse.”
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Dear Bulletin, —You err in saying tha fc
Mr. M‘Millan, M.P. (N.S.W.) comes of a strongly
Orange family. I knew his father, Rev, Gibson
M’Millan, chairman of Connaught district of the
Irish Wesleyan Conference. He often stopped in
my father’s house, and was one of the bogeys of
my early days. I used to fancy his phiz, would
turn milk sour and beer bad in an hour, but then
I was an imaginative youngster. There was
nothing Orange about him, nor is there about most
of the Irish Wesleyans, although they are all
nominally loyalists. For instance, my own father
was a Tyrone man of Cromwellian breed, but,
having married a Sligo woman of strong Wesleyan
instincts, he gave up all his idolatry to King
Billy. Certainly, the portrait of* Her Gracious
used to glower down on us from above the mantel,
but that is all the household loyalty that haunts
my memory. There was never a word about
Orangeism, and our house was the happy hunting,
ground of Wesleyan parsons. Indeed, I have still
in Ireland reverend relations—Presbyterian and
Wesleyan, and they Strongly denounce Orange-
ifcm. —Yours, H.S.R.
Nervous sufferers , will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassraussen’s advfc. on page
16 of this issue.
In conjunction with H.B.M.S. Curagoa, all
those islands of the Solomon group not under the
German protectorate have been placed by the
warship Goldfinch under that flag whose shadow
alone, according to the school-books, makes the
fetters of the slave melt away as would butter in
Hades, But all the same, this annexation busi-
ness won’t be relished by the Q. planters. More
naval supervision means less niggers and more
trouble to catch them.


GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO.
(LIMITED.)
Hon. HE SKY 110 It T, 11.U',,
Adviskh.
u- ■ I ,": sE: . PH M'.liOTT, I LESLEY HERRING,
» 00. iV Shipping Manager. I Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
—AXD —
Station Agents.
STORES i
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
George Maiden, Manager.
N IiSTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies nil the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth ami nourishment of the Human
Frame,
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beuelioial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestles Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
OX CHOLERA INFANTUM.—VoI. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera .Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm, O.
Leubk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI
“In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which arc so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
'enience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
tor
Rheumatism, Sprains. Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
it is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besid-s being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
It above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
<
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to euro every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, aho
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate hut hy their (fcneral action please all w !; ■
ire them. The standard Fill of the U. 8. Medical l'rof» s .
jton. Ti e smallest ami easiest to take. Forty in a phial.
Business Announcements.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
%
$
s
fk.W3tx4j.
Li
&
£>
BUTTER - SCOTCH
5, ELEti RATED CHILDREN S SWEET
Hancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C,
Medical.
2/
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.R.C.P. AND S.
(Registered btthe Medical BoardorJS.b.W.)
May lie consulted at the moderate Fee of 2 '6,
daily, from 9.30 a.m. to S p.m.
In ikese times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoio,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist's business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS' SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED DT
Dr. fl. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
SURGEET.
n'e guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
other for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Cas, 10 6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Cnee
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co,
PHYSICIAN 3, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
Established 1876
ASTHMA
CURE
WRITt FOR
D?
HAIR'S
TREATISE
ASTHMA
o)
hj
''Aflenl*
„ -jEIBOURKE
Rocke.lompsitUC l .
SYPN EY: QilOtt BfO?
BRISBANE: Elliott8ro?»T“~
'Mmm
Z. Sfl
I i (» . .o/g).
|HW Treatise jnd Testimonials frfts'
Juanjidt/rts^
KTo Cure, 3XT o F*ay
CLi////'
galvanic
l^ p !nso
electro
RV
mtL
b ?lt
'PIUS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Beit which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt (fives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by thewcarer through
all WEAK PARTS. Renumber, we (five a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we premise.'
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for onr ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list tpost free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency.
Victoria Chambers, as Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
.£3OO PO» 2b.
* —
8-HOUR-8
DEMONSTRATION,
SEHILL
If
iM
life
2,
1592.
G-i’anul Ait Union?
IMS, VMM £i,ioo.
tFm.ST i
HOUSE, VALUE £3OO
(■ v.-hidvc nf deeds),
Purchased l»y t.-.e I'nisl'ces for the Winner, In any
locality ho desires.
SECOKTD *
Full Iron Frame Overstrung
Black and Gold Case Piano
(by Thurmer),
VALUE, £6O, presented by the Committee,
THIR.O PRIZE :
Full Colonial-made
BED-ROOM SUITE,
Consisting' u f SIX PIECES,
VALUE, .£4O, presented by the Committee,
FOURTH IPPtIZRS :
Haydn Organ,
VALUE, £36. presented by BEALE and Co,,
George Street,
And 250 other \ alliable Prizes ranging in value
from £lB 18s. to 10s. 61.
See Art Union and Litho. Cards.
CATERERS and Others desirous of obtaining
SPACE for J3OOTUS .are informed that the same
are now open for Selection.
r Persons residing in the country may obtain
pickets by forwarding the, necessary amount in
stamps with stamped and addressed envelope.
TICKETS Adults, 25., including Railway
Ticket, Admission to the Ground, and chance in
the Art Union, whether present or not.
ONE ADULT TICKET will supply Two
Children with chance in the Art Union.
it W NOTE-
DUPLICATE NUMBERS ON ALL
TICKETS
Sold are placed in the ART UNION BARREL,
therefore it is not necessary for the Ticket Holders
to attend the Demonstration, as many think, to
obtain a chance in the
ART UNION.
The ART UNION will be DRAWN on the
SATURDAY following the Demonstration.
Due notice will be given of the Drawing, which
will take place in public.
TICKETS
May bo obtained from the following ;
Mick Simmonds, Hay market.
Beale and Co., 482 and IS4 George-street.
M. Pain, George-street, opposite Royal Hotel.
Dymock’s Book Arcade, next Royal Hotel.
1 voids worth, Macpherson and Go'., George-street.
Guwing Bros., Outfitters, George-street.
8. J. Kirby, Bookseller, Brickfield Hill.
Craig and Aitken, Tobacconists, Brickfield Hilt,
.1. Thompson, Bookseller, Erskinc-street.
J. E. Spragg, Bookseller, Oxford-street.
Money Changers on the New Balmain Ferry (by-
hind permission of Captain Napier),
and
OTHER CITY SHOPKEEPERS,
And from the principal News Agents, fee., at
Surry Hills, Redfern, Darlington, Pyrmont, North
Shore, Balmain, Glebe, Camperdow'u. Annandale,
Leichhardt, Petersham, Newtown, Enmore, Mar-
rickvilie, Summer Hill, Ashfield, Paddington
Waverley, Rockdale, Kogarah. Granville, Parra-
matta, &c ,
AND FROM THE SECRETARY,
Thos. W. Furse
TRADES HALL, DIXON-STREET, *
(Foot of Gaul burn-street).
The Wild Cat Column.
(Continued from page 9.)
Georgetown, g„ grows golden. Last month,
2443 tons, 25360z5.
• • #
00 news.—N.S.W, Govt, proposes to erect
works for the treatment ff base ores. The Bulletin has
IO "g hammered at this.
* • #
Another big fortnightly crushing from the
Johnson 9 mine, Bendigo: 1607 tons, Hl7oz. Shares still
rise. Manager lately reported saving 140 oz. from 33 tons
tailings -cost, £224, profit, £3lO. Surely clean pyrites or
richly -concentrated blanketings.
* * #
lit Chan non’s gold amalgamator: a printer’s
error made it appear that it did not claim to save other
than fine ’gold; “ free ”it should have been.
* # *
Characteristic of N.S.W. for yields to subside
as soon as a mine has ils nvyn crushing plant. Big tilings
were foreshadowed for Jit. Gaban when the plant was
comp.ete. Its ore generally exceeded an ounce at the
pnbac battery, but now it goes less than balf-an-ounce
with its own. Last crushing—l 37 tons, 630 z.
® # #
Mills United last fortnight, 2049 tons, 20420z.~
the largest fortnight’s tonnage known on the Towers.
Mine far enough opened up to enable this to be continued
and increased.
* * •
New Prince of Wales, Bendigo. Beef now 15ft.
« icle and shows rough gold occasionally. Last month's
clean n;> 067 tons, 6SOoz. Shares, £1 ; yet this reef has
open known and left alone for over 20 years. Its re-npen-
mg has boomed the surrounding country ; but the writer
happens to know that more money lias been lost than
made on tins line, and investors' might as well re-
member it.
ior years the great argument for the Cobar
railway was the Cobar copper-mine which, it was declared,
would, given a railway, employ upwards of lono people.
, ° w it has the railway, and the mine (closed) languishes
between debt and liquidation.
• • •
Another spasmodic crushing from Baker’s Creek
Consolidated—97 tons, 116 oz. How long before another?
• • •
“ It is gratifying to know from reports and tele-
grams received by N.S.W. Mines Department that several
of the distressed fossickers sent into the country have
not been sent away in vain.” Some 1500 have gone
altogether at a cost of at least £5000; probably one-half
have sold their tools and are back or on their way back.
That is the other side of the story.
* * •
A Bendigo man, returning from Coolgardie,
speaks hopefully of its future but tragically of the hard-
ships endured when teams are delayed. A camp ran
short of tobacco, and the last small plug auctioned for 80s.
• • •
Curnow’s is one of the very few paying claims of
the old Ironbarks, N.S.W. The last (best' of several fair
crushings) 54 tons, 75ozs. ; reef, 6 to loin. ; ground soft ;
one more crushing and then a new lift imperative.
* * #
Mount Morgan treads fast in the footsteps of
Broken Hill. The contract syst in creeps into all de-
partments and the workers begin to realise the truth
of the French definition of industrial competition—
“To eat one’s-self.”
* * *
•function North returns from 521 tons of garnet
saiidstone, treated by the hyposulphite process, give
10,9610 z. silver, slightly over32oz. per ton. The ore goes
o\ ev 400 z., wherefore Soz. is in the tailings—a fairly satis-
factory result. By-products returned 10 tons of copper
and 8 tons of lead.
* # #
A Croydon (Q.) mining affair was sold out
the other day. It began operations elaborately, with a
Condon share-list of £lOO,OOO, and employed several
managers and several working-men. When the foreign
shareholders got tired of paying calls the concern went
could bring. A .£3OO Tangye brought £3O,
£BOO worth of mining machinery realised £l4O, and the
manager s handsome little bungalow was simply flung
away.
* * *
Re a Loudon-owned mine with a substantial
capital and a specially-imported manager, which cracked
up in Australia some time ago. In the storekeeper’s mine-
account,the whisky supplied was alluded to as “ litho-
tracteiir,’ Whisky, after all, is a powerful explosive. It
will burst up the best mine that ever was.
The Otis Ore-Crusher.
Since last time of writing the Otis Ore-crusher
has put through several parcels of varying ores
with gratifying results. A ton of gohl-stone, from
Cootamunrlra (X.S.W.). assaying Gdwts., llgrs.
to the ton was crushed wet‘through 1600-rnesh
screens at the rate of SOcwts. per hour- -that is to
say, the ton was put through in 40 minutes. The
crushed stuff was floated on to an Otis Amalga-
mator and concentrator, the result being Sdwts.,
23grs. of retorted gold. Ten tons of Malmsbury
(\ ic.) stone was crushed and treated shortly after
on the same plant, and yielded <SS per cent, of the
assay value. A Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) antimony
claim sent 3 tons of ore. This parcel was crushed
and treated on the Otis Amalgamator, without
sdver, in 2 hours, resulting in the recovery of gold
to the extent of 78 per cent, of tire assay value,
So per cent, of the assay value of the antimony
being saved at the same time on the lower concen-
trator table. This antimony crushing was watched
by a lot of big antimony-mining men, and thev
appeared very satisfied with the result. #
At least a few Wcstralian claims are being
worked for all they are worth. The first we hear
of, the I van hoe, Hannan’s Rush, Coulgardie, is
not of its flotation, nor of its prospectus-expert’s
repotts, but that its directors, of whom 3 are on
the B.H. Proprietary board, have despatched to
their property a complete Otis ore-crushing plant,
with a Reading Pine (fold Amalgamator, which
the writer saw at work just prior to shipment.
Four recently-started Westralian mines are work-
ing, or are having manufactured, complete Otis
crushing and amalgamating plants, and orders
from companies working land in the Eastern
States threaten to keep the Otis Furnace engineers
busy for some time to come.
The cablegrapher hastens to delight us
with the exhilarating news that Brazil, now bathed
in blood, is to revert to Monarchism. '
Probably the last contribution -of the late
Francis Adams to the Australian press was his
“England in Egypt” which appeared two or
three months ago in The Bu.i.e : in.
One of the largest carrying-firms in Sydney
feelingly complains that for 14 days prior to last
Saturday not one foreign-going ship entered
Sydney harbour excepting the usual weekly mail
steamers.
The first contingent of “ New Australia ”
has arrived at Monte Video, per Royal Tar, all
well. These pioneers are merely on the fringe of
getting “in the know” of” their colonising
troubles.
Australian diplomacy. Premier MTI-
- wire: “If Huddart’s line calls at both
Keppel and Moreton Bays Queensland Govern-
ment will recommend Parliament to vote .£5OOO
subsidy.” Premier Dibbs’s reply wire : “ One
port or the other, but not both.” MTlwraitb’s
rejoinder: “ Both or none.” Dibbs : “None.”
The Messageries-Maritimes Enropean-Aus-
tralian lino has the best mail-record for the past
year: average, just under 31 days from Melbourne
to London, and vice versa. Orient Co., 32 days 9
hours nearly. P. and 0., 33 days 8 hours out and
37 days 4 hours in. Moreover, even now, nobody
quite knows how fast the M.M. boats can steam if
pushed.
The Cafd Martin, corner of Moore and
Pitt Streets, Sydney, is within vibratory sym-
pathy of the G.P.O. chimes to the right and
Barrister Field's noontide anthems to the left—
but these are gratis luxuries. The Martin Gate is
a cool, well-furnished dive, fitted to seat 95 per-
sons, and offering strong gastronomic inducements
as per sliding-scale, tickets by the dozen can be
bought at a reduced rate. There are a comfort-
able smoking-room, &e., and lift conveniences.
The Cafe Martin must fairly boom during the
coming summer.
Writes from Calcutta, under date Bth
Aug., Harold Boyd, the Australian inventor of
the now-well-known Ripp-Lene explosive :
’ Dear Bulletin - ,—l need not tell you of the bad finish
made by the Siamese in the Franco-Siamese rumpus. I
expected at least to go hack to the Sunny South with a
wooden leg and sundry other decorations; but it didn’t
come off—neither the leg nor the decorations. I si«h
when I think what might have been, if George Rigno'il
had been with me in ills Henry V. turn-out. We’d have
given the French “ Bondi,”' instead of Chentaboon, 1
promise you. I have had several communications from
the Siamese Admiral, whose name is Richelieu, and,
strange to say, a descendant the great Cardinal, which
livings to my mind a little scene from Lytlon’s play that
might have been enacted between Ricky and the King, as
follows:--King: “Where will France be to-morrow?”
Ricky ; “ There, at my feet I” But, alas !it didn’t come
off no how.


gh
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales
Wonderful Africa.
(A Letter from an Australian Prospector.)
Dkab Bulletin,— -A few notes from an Aus-
tralian in South Africa. We are glad to
be able to buy The Bulletin here for
the modest sum of Is. 6d. per copy. I have
been in charge of 100 natives on one of the
local mines. While the boys are working, one
will light a cigar, put the lighted end in his
mouth, have a few pulls, and pass it on to another.
Each one does this in turn till the cigar is ex-
hausted. In like manner they share their food.
If one has a small piece of meat it is apportioned
equally all round. They are, on the average, as
good workmen as the whites, but they need much
more direction and breaking in. The ground being
hard, the rule is to give them a depth of 3ft. to
bore; they have generally finished this job and
gone home long before knook-off time. The
average “staff” on a big mine consists of about
1000 natives and 120 whites. A native’s wages
average £2 10s. a month, with tucker, which costs
about 4d. a day. They are fed on “mealies.”
It is a stirring sight to see a gang of boys all
stripped, striking the drills all together, and sing-
ing in time—“ Imooshla lappa ; maninge sebenza ;
picanni marley or, “ No good here; too much
work; very little money for it!” They would
sing that refrain just as savagely if they got a
white man’s wage—£2o a month. A Kaffir has
only one ambition— to save up £2O. That
achieved, he goes home—sometimes a tramp of
1000 miles— buys two wives, settles down, and
makes his wives work for him while he sits in his
kraal (hut) and smokes all day. Very few Kaffir
labourers, however, amass £2O; they are too fond
of Cape brandy for that! In one aspect, it is a
good thing for this field that they do drink.
Besides, there is an Act of Parliament that com-
pels a Kaffir to wear a certain amount of clothing*
and this helps to keep him short of money.
One of the finest sights I know is the perform-
ance of a war-dance by a thousand natives. The
Shaangnans—the “ flash eat ” race—cover their
bodies with various skins and wear gaudily-
coloured handkerchiefs, I was present at a war-
dance arranged to please Lord and Lady Loch; at
some points of it, it was—keep your eyes shut!
Talk about docile slaves ! In the compounds
where the boys sleep on the mines, each tribe has
a separate place, with a white man to look after
them. A compound manager can always quell a
row between two tribes by a few words. I have
known a manager wager that he could make his
thousand boys do whatever he told them. “ Lie
down cm your backs ! ” he sang out. And they
all did so quite meekly. They’re like frightened
kids The Zulus are best prized as workers; they
are the biggest and strongest among the natives.
A Kaffir with two or three wives has generally
only about as many children. In the big Trans-
vaal towns, such as Pretoria and Potchefstroom,
special locations are allotted to Kaffirs, about two
acres to each man. These are the Chinese culti-
vators of this country. Every inch of a Kaffir’s
garden is planted with mealies and other native
vegetables, and he generally owns a waggon and
team of oxen, while many a Kaffir gardener is
worth a few hundreds of pounds. A Kaffir
usually banks his savings under his fireplace. By
the way, there is very little wood on the Randt;
cowdung, known as “Natal coal,” is burned.
Don t travel through this country with a swag,
or the farmers won’t give you a feed. Get a horse
and learn to speak a little Dutch, and you’ll be
well treated. Never say you’re English; the
farmers hate the English. Own yourself an Aus-
tralian and you’ll be all right. Some of our best
mine-managers are Australian, and draw salaries
of from £l5OO to £2OOO a year.
The equivalent here of the Australian billy of
tea is coffee. Everybody drinks it. In many
Dutch homes you will not see tea from one year’s
end to another.
The country is mostly flat and well-suited every-
where for riding or driving. Very few farms are
fenced. The old-time surveyors’ vogue was to
ride so many miles one way and so many another,
and define the limits of a farm by ranges, or
creeks, or other natural features. Distances
between places are not computed by miles, but by
“ hours”—“it is so many hours’ distance from A.
to B. ” Horses are not worked much ; they con-
tract a fatal sickness easily. It is not unusual to
see thirty or forty bullock-teams, of 16 bullocks
each, enter Johannesburg market with produce,
that fetches prices that remind an Australian of
the early days of Ballarat. Potatoes, £1 10s. a
bag ; onions, £1 ss. a bag ; eggs, 3s. 6d. a dozen ;
butter, 3s. 6d. a lb.; firewood, £7 a load (about
two tons). These prices are moderate compared
with those that ruled a short time ago. Fair
living can be got at £l2 a month; drinks are
mostly a shilling, though there are a few sixpenny
taps.
Johannesburg is undergoing a building boom ;
three and four-storeyed houses are taking the places
of the old buildings. Rents are high and private
residences scarce. Population from all parts of
the globe is flocking in.
Nearly all the mining is done by black labour ;
consequently there is a glut of white miners. Only
white miners and mechanics are at all required.
Johannesburg has three theatres, and runs Sun-
day-night concerts. It is not unusual to see from
three to four thousand people at the Wanderers’
promenade concert.
The Transvaal is the most wonderful gold
country in the world. The Witwatersrandt lines
of banket reefs have been proved by the borehole
to go down over 2000 ft., and claims have been
pegged out on the dips for over two miles. Con-
sidering that the reefs are being worked over a
length of 30 miles, the field promises to be ever-
lasting. At night, one can see miles of electric
lights on the poppet-heads. The banket is very
similar to the red cement wash of Australia. The
leader on the Robinson, Randfontein, and other
mines, assays as high as 200 oz. to the ton; and to
pan some of it (although you may not see a colour)
gives a tail of gold in the pan as long as your
hand.
This leader and the south reefs where most
of the gold is being got at present? The main
reef is Bft. wide in places, but has not yet been
touched in most of the mines. With the improved
machinery now being obtained, it is expected
that 4dwt. to the ton will be payable. The
ore gets pyritical from the 150 ft. level. The walls
on the surface are soft red sandstone, which gets
harder as you descend; at the lower levels, it is
hard blue ground, and it costs £3 10s. a foot with
rock-drills'to drive through it. Very little timber
is required even in the stopes, which is lucky, as
timber is practically unobtainable. There are
thousands of feet of drives without a stick in them.
Mining is carried out on a big scale. No mining
manager here can make his reputation on assays,
or “bull” reports; he must get the gold out.
“ Cousin Jack ” does not care to work on these
reefs, as he cannot-get any nice little nuggets to
send to his distant girl.
Two rich patches wore struck in the pyritic ore
—one at the Worcester and one last week at the
Jumpers, about 300 z., which was nearly all gold.
I do not think, however, there will ever be got
any such sensational finds as have been struck in
Australia, though the Zoutpansberg companies
have reefs very similar in formation to those at
Gympie (Q.). The fever is so bad in the Zout-
pansberg district that the companies can only
work during six months of the year. There are
but two proved companies there as yet —the Birth-
day, crushing 4oz. ; and the Letaba, loz.—and
these have not been proved to any depth.
Mashonalanci is not in great favour with Randt
operators. One drawback is that the Chartered
Company claims one-half of all discoveries. My
belief is that there will be several good paying
mines in Mashonaland in a few years’ time.
On the Randt, reef-claims are 400 ft. by 150 ft.
“ One-man-one-claim” is the law, but you can have
a power-of-attorney and peg out other claims;
license-fee for each claim, ss. a month. As nothing
under 50 claims is considered a mine, it takes a
lot of money to hold a block of claims. There is
no labour-clause to compel you to work the
ground.
Australian prospectors complain, and with
good cause, of the way in which they are treated.
On the Zeehan and Dundas (Tas.) silver-fields,
and on other Australasian fields, I have often,
when prospector after prospector came into camp
with good “shows,” heard grumbling to the
effect that there were “ too many shows ; ” but I
have never been before in a place where there were
“too many good snows.” That is what is the matter
here; there is more 7dwt. payable ground than
there is capital to develop.
Two miles south of the Main reef is a parallel
line of reef called the Kimberley; it has been
traced for 30 miles, and shows a solid banket 20ft.
wide in places, and yielding from 4dwt. to 12dwt.
When I came here, 10 months ago, no one would
touch it with a stick; now, it is pegged out all the
way, except in a few of the poorest places. In
other places, claims have been pegged out for dips
1200 ft. from the outcrop.
Several strong companies are sinking shafts on
the Main reef, and a few years will see a double
row of mines extending for 30 miles.
Of other reefs, the Reitfontein is the best; the
company is crushing with 30 stamps, and gets
SOdwts. on the plates. This reef is difficult to
trace on account of the heavy surface and irregular
country. The company was originally floated on
•£30,000 ; then reconstructed with £300,000 ; and
then abandoned as unprofitable. The bondholders
auctioned it, and a syndicate (in which the ex-
minmg manager was largely interested) bought it
for £12,000. Then it was re-fl >ated into a com-
pany of £120,000! The Rothschilds bought
20,000 shares at £2 each, and that furnished the
working capital. The company has since paid
£50,000 in dividends, and E. H. Dunning (the
'ex-manager referred to) has been appointed a
Life Guardian, with a “salary” of 5 per cent, on
all profits made after the company has paid back
£120,000, which it expects confidently to do
within the next six months. The present market*
value of the mine is ,£700,000.
There are eleven lines of reefs—Reitfontein,
Main, Bird and Attwell, Yellow, Kimberley,
Free State, Sunday, Red, Elsburg, Du Pass and
Black. The Reitfontein is most northern, and is
quartz; the others are south in the order named,
and are banket. The course of all reefs here is
east and west, except the Bothas, 18 miles from
Johannesburg, where the “ lie ” turns right round
and is north and south for 12 miles, and then one
loses the reefs until they are picked up again
60 miles away on the Yaal River. There the same
indications are encountered for 70 miles, till you
reach the back series in the Orange Free State ; in
some places on the Vaal they pan out better even
than on the Randt.
Silver is a failure in this country. All the silver
lodes are refractory, save the Transvaal Silver
Mine, which has a galena lode about 3ft. wide,
and has smelted 40oz. to the ton. Although its
shares stand at about 155., there are better shows
of galena on the Zeehan field (Tas.) for as many
pence per share.
Tin has been lately found in Swaziland—a good
sample of stream tin —and has been traced over a
tract of country 100 miles long, and plentifully
supplied with water for sluicing purposes. There
is, however, no show for diggers; the country is
all in large “ concessions.”
There is coal all over South Africa. In the
Middleburg and Free State there are numerous
seams that have never been opened up. Coal pro-
perties, except those near a line of railway, are a
drug in the market.
Diamonds have been found in three different
places in the Free State. There is every proba-
bility of the De Beers monopoly being broken up.
J. B. Robinson, an African millionaire, has lately
given <£30,000 cash for one discovery—Drickop-
pin’s estate —and the prospects are very encourag-
ing. Several other alluvial discoveries of diamonds
have been made—all on the other side of the Yaal
River, no diaraondiferous ground of any conse-
quence having been found in the Transvaal.
Alluvial gold has not been a great success up to
the present. You can pan the wash in all the
creeks that cross the Main Reef series and not get
a colour. The most important alluvial discovery
has been at Pastorsburg—creek alluvial, carrying
very fair gold. Alluvial has been found in the
terraces in several places in the Witwatersrandt—
a very heavy wash, carrying coarse, water-worn
gold. More terraces will be worked before long,
and will yield wages to working men.
The share market is lively, and, when there is a
spurt, it reminds one of Broken Hill (N.S.W.)
boom-days. It is not unusual to hear a three-
penny price made in a £5 stock, and for a line of
4000 or 5000! The big brokers are Hebrews
mostly, and everything hangs by the London
market, which the brokers are careful to keep a
bit above the local one. There is no public
Exchange, and only one private Exchange;
entrance-fee for a seat, £5O.
A small land-boom is on ; allotments belong to
the Government, and are rented at 10s. a month.
Several syndicates have “ concessions ” for estab-
lishing townships, and these sell the ground in
50ft. by 50ft. allotments. In the old Dutch towns,
the allotments are 400 ft. by 400 ft., and the shops
few and far between. In the larger towns, the
water-supply flows in the street gutters all the
year round ; for this the people pay water-rates.
A peculiarity of this country is the number of
small lakes on hilltops and flats ; the water is
good. Australians agree that the climate is equal


Oolemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
CADBURY'S COCOA
v
MU
MH
llili II
ssss
nJjfto
•■iv
V*
■Ak
‘
M
M
PIMp
5 »»
SOS*QV--'Jm'
Ppß'- 7j-v-vv
>rrf
|
iiHBBSSvS
ftsBRSN^
••••.
g
s*
mmL
.-■
Bft
2k»-
A -*■
S#-f
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
to that of Victoria. It is now winter, bub, with
the exception of a shower last week, we have had
no rain for nearly three months. The dust, though,
is as bad as at Broken Hill in the early days.
The Randt is 5000 ft. above the sea-level.—Yours,
Alfred Lewis
(late of Zeehan, Tasmania).
Johannesburg, July 19, 1893.
Berry, the British hangman of brighter,
nappierdays, seems to be quite down on his luok.
Carried away by his own ambition, and influenced
by his wife, Berry threw up his Government
appointment some good while ago and took to
lecturing Great Britain on the evils of capital
punishment. He thought there was money to be
made at the new business, and at first he drew
fair houses. The newspapers published Berry’s
best anecdotes, however; his theories as to long
drops, and short drops, and the necessity for
abolishing drops altogether became familiar to the
world at large, and all the interest of Berry’s
personality was given away by wood-cuts. The
world knew what he looked like and everything
he had to say, without paying for admission to
his show. So Berry applied for situations as
bookkeeper, or confidential messenger, but was
refused employment on the ground that his hands
were red with gore. There was a kind of prejudice
against him in commercial circles. Heads of firms,
who hadn’t been known to be facetious for years,
would cut wretched jokes at Berry, saying they’d
see him hanged .first, and so forth. In his last
extremity the blighted Berry has written to the
under-sheriffs of London and provinces, recanting
all that he onoe said concerning the absurdity of
hanging, and begging to be taken on again as
head slaughterman. He was always sober and
trustworthy and neat in his work, he says, and if
the Queen will overlook his injudicious remarks
from the public platform, he will promise to be
henceforth as' silent as the grave. Or he is pre-
pared to boldly advoeato hanging for hanging’s
sake. Mrs. Berry is ill, the children haven’t a
shoe to their feet, and he wants to come back like
the prodigal and slay the fatted criminal :
Poor old Berry’s ageing sadly—
Empty pockets, aching heart.
Berry wants a billet badly—
Give the man another start.
Never mind his past haranguing.
Speeches made in foolish jest,
Take him on again at hanging—
Berry’s hanging is the best.
Other hands may shake and falter
As they fix the fatal noose;
ties an artist at a halter—
Berry ain’t a cove to booze.
Always careful and observant,
Berry knew the proper way.
“0, thou good and faithful servant 1”
Under-sheriffs used to say.
Berry hasn’t got a shilling,
Not a solitary “bob."
Oan you see a worker willing
Weeping for a little job?
Ah! the fellow’s to be pitied—
Shocking case of sore distress.
Next time murder is committed,
Send for Berry—same address.
Dear Bulletin, —I read with interest your
par. re the tyranny of the missionaries at Raro-
tonga. The same state of things obtains in hun-
dreds of other islands in Polynesia, notably
Tonga, the Union Group, and some of the Kings-
mills. On Niue (Savage Island), despite the
pleadings and objections of the white missionary,
the native teachers have all but established the
same debasing tyranny. The executive of the
L.M.S. rarely interferes in these matters, even if
one of their resident white missionaries attempts
to tone down the savage bigotry of their native
assistants. In the Kingsmills women have been
flogged over and over again for buying dress
material from the traders and neglecting to con-
tribute to the church funds. There the native
teachers say that it is the rulers, and not they,
who are responsible. This, as everyone knows, is
a lie. Herewith I send you a list of the cash
contributions of the eleven villages on Savage
Island to an annual church meeting, known as the
Me (May). You will notice that of the total
sum of $1428-80, some 25 native teachers (who are
paid salaries and live like prize pigs) gave but
$24-07 between them ; the Patuiki (King) forked
out $20’90; and six white men—five of whom
were traders, a class that the missionaries are
always ready to asperse for their antagonism to
missionary efforts have given $124 - 37. The
sixth man was the white missionary himself, who
shows by this the manner of white man he is. He
doesn’t print his name and contribution ($2O) in
big letters in his published list, nor even put himself
among the akoaya (teachers); but simply includes
himself as one of the tau papalapi (foreigners).
This white missionary is, 1 need not tell you, a
very erratic individual. He doesn’t believe in the
teachers collaring part of the fines inflicted upon
native women for immorality, especially if,
as is often the ease, the culprit is a teacher’s
daughter; he objects to flogging women for
any misdemeanour, and he has never allowed
it ; he believes in the white traders being allowed
to have cooking done on Sunday, although he has
to have his Sunday dinner cold. For 23
years this radical parson lias sought to
mitigate the brutalities inseparable from native
church administration. Two years ago he went
to England, and the white traders lost the best
friend they ever had. When his successor lauded
he was observed to be smoking a pipe in his
study. Next day the native teachers called on
him in a body and read him a lecture on the
enormity of his offenoe. The moral of all this is
that the native teachers in Cook’s Group and
elsewhere can make and do make life a perfect
hell to the people they rule over.—Yours, etc.,
Iki Vaka.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Desmond O’Brien, discussing the Republic
of Europe, prophesied by Napoleon the First,
writes, “The solidarity between the peoples grows
with the growth of their impatience of their
burdens; while, as every man is passed through
the military mill, a mob needs only arms to be an
army.” Yes. To maintain a great army they
must create a “nation of soldiers,” and a nation
of soldiers throws off the military yoke sooner or
later.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
At Strassfurt (Germany), lately, an old
man and his wife decided, after their millioneth
row, that the only cure for their troubles was
simultaneous suicide. So they hung two ropes
over a beam, and standing on either end of a
plank fixed a noose round each neck. The agree-
ment was that at the old man’s signal they were
to swing off simultaneously, but when he gave the
word each promptly got out of the noose and
turned round to look at the corpse; consequently
they met and used bad language in the middle of
the plank, and there was an unfinished suicide
that day at Strassfurt. Most double suicides
come to grief more or less after that fashion.
When two people agree to die together it
generally happens that one of them makes a
mental reservation that he (or she) will
wait and see how the other gets on before
doing anything irrevocable. Therefore there is
hardly ever more than one remains, and the
other person is present in custody at the
inquest. Sometimes there is no remains, and
both persons are in custody. Some French-
man or other writes a brutally satirical
story of a double suicide. Two brothers resolve
to die simultaneously on account of some disgrace
which has come upon the family. Each goes to
his room with a pistol, the agreement being that
when the clock strikes the hour each will blow out
his brains. There is a weary interval. Then the
clock strikes, two pistol-shots ring through the
house, and there is an awful silence. But pre-
sently a door opens, and one brother steps out of
his room with a stealthy tread. Almost at the
same instant another door opens, and another
stealthy brother steps out. Two astonished
brothers meet in the passage.
In the Distant Long Ago.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In the distant long ago,
When life was at its spring,
And love began to grow
With the flow’rs and everything—
I had then no thought of woe,
Nor fear of autumn’s fall—
In the distant long ago
Love, hope, were mine, and all.
In the distant long ago
When the summer followed spring,
And to love came passion’s glow,
Delights of love to bring;
I knew nought of winter’s snow
That makes the dead heart’s pall—
In the distant long ago
Love, joy, were mine, and all.
In the distant long ago
Alas ! the autumn fell,
And the flame of love sank low
And seemed of death to tell;
Then I first began to know
That joy on earth is small—
In the distant long ago
Doubt, fear, were mine, and all.
In the distant long ago
When the snows of winter came,
And the chilling winds did blow
And killed all passion’s flame;
I knew all that life doth sow
’Neath scythe of death must fall—
In the distant long ago
Cold death was mine, and all.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
On a Dry Plain.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Mid-day in January, on a Far West plain — not
even a camel-bush to throw shade enough to cool
a grasshopper. A solitary swagtnan without even
a dog. The man was grey and old, and the
sweat of weakness oozed from beneath his hair
and trickled down his face, while his lips were
stuck together with the- grey mucus of thirst.
But he was still sensible, and knew that the
beautiful lakes that quivered and glistened in
front of him, around him, behind him, were
utterly unreal, and that he must keep his eyes due
south and his head level.
If he could only meet someone ! Or if it were
only coach-day 1 Then he fancied he heard the
sound of wheels, but was too much afraid of the
horror of disappointment to look back—afraid that
he had heard only the first mocking overture of the
thirst jim-jams.
At last, thank God! a horse blew his bugle
beside him; tied to the horse, in the usual way,
was a buggy with one man on the seat.
Down went the old wayfarer’s swag, and for a
moment the dank, straggling hair seemed to
shrivel under the awful focus of heat from the
disc above.
“ How far to the water, sir ?”
“Eight miles, my man. Good day "—and
before he had time to ask for a lift salvation had
whizzed away through the rents of the quivering
mirage like a dream.
Now ugly faces began to leer at him, jeering
voices to speak to each other about him.
“ Why doesn’t the old fool take off his boots
and run for it ?’
“Takeoff your hat, your boots, your shirt, or
you’ll never make the water.”
He took off his boots and ran for it. His
trousers were heavy and they must come off.
What a weight his shirt was ! And his old, floppy
hat was as lead on his brain ! All off now, and
a naked, grey-headed man was running—such
pitiful running !—in circles, while the jeering
devils in the air made audible wagers with each
other as to whether he’d do the laps in even time
or break the record.
The next day is Sunday—Sunday 1 in the town-
ship, and Sunday, in its way, in the bush. In
the township, a small building full of tidy people
—old men, old women, young men and maidens,
listening to precepts of love and charity. The
buggy-occupant of yesterday—in no hurry now,
but in an ecstacy of peace and restfulness—is
among them.
Presently sweet voices blend in
Rescue the perishing, care for the dying,
Snatch them in pity from sin and the grave.
Away out on the plain the kites and crows hold
their “Sunday service” on something that was
once a man, strong and kindly, something that
might still have been a man, strong and kindly,
but for the want of a lift across that eight miles
of hell to the water.
MULGA.
For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Warung.”
Gold Medal Artificial Truth, full sets £6. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Oases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)


“THE BULLETIN’S”
Missing Word Competition--No. 6.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
ihe .Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
1893 UPOnS received to 23rd September,
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition. &
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps; when the
latter are sent, a penny to be added for
exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
" The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word Competition Coupon. —Ho. S.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to be received by Saturday, 23rd September, 1893.
The cornered Parkes says he is willing to refer to a plebiscite the question of
payment of members in N.S. W, If payment of members can be settled
by a plebiscite, why not also every other vexed question ? Parkes endorsement of
the plebiscite foreshadows the abolition of Party Government and the absurd English
custom of endeavouring to settle five hundred questions at one election.
Name . ; *
A ddress ; ' - .
Missing Word _
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly gel a cheque for the total amount
received— no deduction whatever being made. Should there he more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
"\T T> p
—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other wis
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
Bulletin ” Series, IVo. 2.
a
Tal
■
I
B j PRICE WAR LING.
“ The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of Thk
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke, before
producing ‘ His .Natural Life,’ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict system. The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer’s knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘Price Waning,’ as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout: his thorough
acquaintance, even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary‘ability with which
the subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
“ ‘ The Transportation System,’ said Archbishop Whately, speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a monument such
as I suppose was never before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity.’ How true
this is Marcus Clarke’s great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung’s ’ stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not be given to
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are narratives of the
blind brutalism of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the torture of
death, noble efforts of truly Christian clergymen to stem influences which deformed body and soul, pathetic records of lives
wrecked by savage laws and men scourged into kinship with devils. ‘Price Warung’ has taken this material and, choosing
the most suitable to his purpose, placed it with dramatic force before his readers. The stories, although connected by a thread
of general sequence, are so written that'each is complete in itself.”—Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“Bulletin” Series, INTO. i.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
ETDITTOISr
OF
“A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Fmique Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
" The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the onip paper which has a consistent and dig *
Unctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the VV orld.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
' excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
i country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in Thu Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 year* wimth no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its_ lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest psper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and beat-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established A us-
tralian journal which, throughout its,career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian Journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clabns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight, of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
tothebushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular - city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official,—tint,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maclkod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Auchibalu.


Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone 973.
W, M AMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
CTT r
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sh.ow Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST~OF SIX
Tales of Hie Austral Tropics,
BY
EEUEST FAVEUC,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. GO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Scale of Advertising
—IN-
U
THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent.
6s. per inch per insertion,
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion,
allowed for cash in advance.
nett.
nett.
ouci
*n
Sole
Agents for
i*x-ice
HENRY HEATH.
Us. u>d.
jg
fIENRY ffEATffai
.TRADE MARK
SQ&X CCOOIf
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH
Price 9s. 6d.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
Csr. SMIITKE & SOM,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
tGT Look - Out fok
“THE LAST OF SlX:’’
tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Tanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY CO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Macliinery Mercliant.
■ ir ~iocjr-»
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlae “ Pioneer ” Ore Treatiu s Worlds,
FYRUONT, SYDNBSY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
if
os-
w
<>v
■Rag
srsra
2 ' &
.<
Iffi&.S
'is*?
< :
**;
*
Knowles’ Steam 'Pumps
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
Your attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
MARK BUOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coming season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily visit to EOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists ol fashion are
being opened up with all speed
(Ireat is the. curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span- novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES !—One penny, one penny,, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SIfOKTBY.
[EBTABLISHBJ) OVBR A QUARTER OF A CENTURY.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
w~ T«ran--i«g. «d. per »»y, Sidney date of Newcastle), “Prop.”
-PEIVATE HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN HOUSE , Milson’s Point . SYDNEY .
Resident Medical Officer— Dr- LEIGHTON NESTEVEN, M-E-C-S., Eng., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital ; Government Medical Officer, Brisbane, etc.
lXrO 3E533 XU XT R S X 3NT. Cfr S 3 T JE* Hf.
TEEMS STRICTLY MODERATE -inclusive of Residence, Medic >1 Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYn ECOLOGICAL CASKS.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN Hi >USE stands in pleasant grounds, on in elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
THE BtFLEETfN ” MERI ES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
