

s
&
£
»■
ip
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS 5 EACH
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER .
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER
ME I,BOURNE CUP. NOVEMBER
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose- one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
20,000
50.000
20.000
a Each.
5 Each.
10 Each.
(For Horses Only)
E. Alexander, Furniture -Warehouse,
Q 7 Oxford-St„ Sydney, K S W.
R. G, WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOB—
Mining Md Contractors* Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Beanisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
h
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
i.
A
zn
% W cV
<RAck^A>ocK>
■,
iWm- %
£ .*4
V
o
I’**
W. A, Hervoy, Agent, 28 I’Ut-sl, Sydney.
!Free Frescri^tiona
Are to be found in the “ Lig'ht ami Life,’
for tiie Spec dy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sexib
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE.— Advertisements for .Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
v y% 3
■
o*ZS
w
f H£
Ml
The Oxford. Hotel, Street, Sydney
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor. '
-THE-,
M.S.W. FRESH FOOD & fCE CO.
(LIMITED
ILK
REAM ..
itIITTKIt
lISII
(.ami:
rOCLTRY
IM STBY, ttc.
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
"Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed-Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
D AILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
the splendid railway facilities offered hy the Railway
Commissioners enable ua to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts-of the Colony:—
milk, ice, butter,
FISH, GAME.
Poultry, Pastry, etc?.
»». P ATESOJi,
lat July, IbDJ. Mi\nn <r cr*
WALKER’S WHISKT. ALLSOPFS ALE
JOHN WALKER, 24= SONO STREET, SYDNEY.
J. & C. HOWARD.
Sole A.gexxts in OSTow South Wales for Messrs. Claytoa and Shuttleworth.
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
'".ntlllHiiiitalllWßiili;
WITH HANDLES,
OIeDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR SI KER AGE,
Also in Riding'.
m
Cl AY TOW * St'ylH.Vf.aiU' ■■l-'r-'VN f;y<
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27.000 MADE AND SOLD
' i! •
m
- I!
'2. • • : S
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.VV.
OVER 25.000 MADE AND SOLD
ortable and Semi-Portable Engines.
• - , r „ines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a'Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Ragging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
Single Cylinder. Double Cylinder, and Compoti
ll.tiizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Sigh ness m Dj aught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each,
Convertahle to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. &W Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & C. Howard, 2 3 O’. r*ltt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol. 18.—Ko. 704 j
[Saturday, August 12, LBA3.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of 3\Te»-w South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Bitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery; Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable fo* Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
TStLrrm. KILMIKTSTEr" 0 .... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
hĥ
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Makaobr for Australia -T. J. aVtei.o’W'illiaJCKiL, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
“THE LAST OF SIX.”
Short and Pithy Australian Tales by the Adven-
turous Queensland Explorer and well-known
Writer,
Ernest JE"a.ven.o.
Price • One Shilling*.
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples; weak stomach, impure blood, &0., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY'S iMedical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the b>st means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS. S
I au; House Surgeon, Great
N thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
:iv,'ich
every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
S*C.S., L.S.A.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
&0.,
Send for
M. PERRYS
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake t e tratment of these casus with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry's pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
mod enslaving 1 habit can he overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly pelt; for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. dailv.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO OOXSFI.TATION FEE CHARGED.
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
EPPS ’ S
GEATEFGL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”—Chas. fl. Piesse,
Ph. D., .F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DB RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Sole Address:
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., <&c. VVm. Johnstone
OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
\»A
ows
EMBROCATION
mi
I'
m
7fi
EVERYWHERE
m
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of suffe'rers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Mann-
faetured only at 78 New Oxford-bt., London. ifW” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
SDunoua
USE
V
n?
&
ft
i
*5
$1
« ~ i*
Mm&smSSi
She : “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S I ’
He: “No!”
She ; “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
k® IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From I’ilt-slrcet to
Castlereaglf&treel),
Between King & Market Stn>
SIDNEY.
I
iSS
tW" IN THE VERY HBART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Weddinsr Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board ok Apartments at Option.
IWS €JOtcrj, Manage!],
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
"Men I have Smiled with.”
w E STAY at Bruton’s,
MHnannoD
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
cixvtfO
MELBOOBNiS.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week,
eluding Breakfast, 55.; Double dil to. 10s.
meets for large families. A. F. BICKER,
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
Single Bed, in-
Special arrange-
Manager, The
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-streefc, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
rATKINSOITS^
WHITE ROSE
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Use none hut Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Essence.
ATKINSON S
OPOPANAX
waao violet
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other 'well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine sritli shield-
shope blue and yellow label and usu?
Trade Mark—a While Kose"— t
and address in mil-
manhood.
HEALTH STRUNG TIT AND I'IGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by ike use of
0H RI COtt)pV
tS 3E»* c£ of L< pi.
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used fpr a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitat'd constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human f rame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 30s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry Sc Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy. MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. U. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
To Newsagents, etc.
T jSk. S .A. ISTI jflk.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
Medical.
mm
mm
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
X and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling: to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their e'yea. Highly
recommended by the leading- Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN'S GOUT mmJ
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEI
H
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELT
y
H.
m
Nr
■V
-
S 7.
W\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwaids. This famous Electric Magnetic Beit will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Bark, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improv nv nt-i over all other
bells. We are willing to furnish those belts on
. 30 c3Lst/-vs
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what r. e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cut e l in three months!
It is more co ivenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS
a
&
sK
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for b i lious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizz'ness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, Bushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, coa-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
offerer is earnestly invited to try <>ne box of these
Fills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring- about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they wilt
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a tew doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes hied
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Maine Cough Pills.
o o
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., those Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcoam’s Couqii
I’na.s a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 50 pills), and at
Bs. ffd. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.H. full directions are given with eacli box.


Medical.
112 PHILLIP ST SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption," “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government). Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
I Nervous & Skin Complaints /
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail co send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions;—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Gold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Xs offered ? Dr. J. Vines will,,on receipt of
ONE POUND.,
’send hie world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
■endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. X. Vines
“ ELECTRIC GIRDLE ”
<with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
■of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, -I am prepared to allow any honest
(person'to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
jioor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs « Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—1).30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 13 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to i) p.m.
ftSff- Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney,
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Or.Hisiiarils
84 COLLECT STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales,
ai
s
I <,ylll'l..Wl
□
r - -■ ■■TuTnl
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Hia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during'the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
.or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps ,to the above
address, and you will, by return of post,,recei v e
postage
FREE, A’LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result ip
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. .This book will prove
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you,in,restoring,some poor friend
to health, evemthough his ease has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies .necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plain'. Should yon require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
!jc advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, qu receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
i candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
>f which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carpi'ully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
/our ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
he purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
I mgs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
:oming to Australia, and has permission from, at
'oast, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
if his success. All communications should bo
oldreased :
cli
84 COD DDGE STREET, SYDNKIf.
» Hei,
Bl H <a m
He sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel,
m
“ The (Sydney Qoffee Palace” Hotel
Sm John Yocno's Crescent,
Louver Domain, Sydney, Australia,
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TAKII'F.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... Iss
Willi Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
Sss each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
''"(ISIS, BATHS, &<;.
mcMKirxiVE.
Position in the veryicentre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
juauies’ Tea Booms.
»JHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in (he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
□XTo Cure, 3XT o Fay
mil//
tAli
0
0?
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric ißelt which will
J- cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUS.T
HEALTH. This,marvellous Electric .Beit gives a steady
soothing current that can ;be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS, dleni'.mber, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not wo will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
; precisely what,we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and,examine (hem, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi : l convince the mpst
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, ,63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
SKIN TOKIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Panins, r.ioivn Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
KMim V Unluss, I thins, Pimples, Roughmss, Exces-
sive Oldness, Eczema, Acte and Vv :ii kli s net caused hy
facial exprtssion. It is Ixnelicial 10 iho most d Beale
Of.inplexioii: and keeps the skin soft and lino.
I Veil- hy Smicly ladies all over the world. Brice, per
bottle, 12s. (ill., it, three ho'ihs together, £1 12s. (id.
Valuable new Book on “NATURAL BHAL'TV,” given
away for a short lime only to all calhrs.
Head Office—B9 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
w. C- & CO-.
DYERS & CLEANERS,
"o YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
niry Orders by post .from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
A L E S O F T H E SYS T E M.
SO I.l’. Agency for Australas'a—
Business Announcement.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
N a L AND VIA AMERICA
J IN 37 DAY S.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn!
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco,.and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £6O.
Combination Ticket. .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE ... ... £3O ISs. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAOERfES MARITIMES,
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French ,Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT,SAID, will be despatdud monthly as follows:
Steamer
Commander Sydney
I Noon
AUSTR ALIEN 16. Didier ..!Au:
V.dela CTOTAT Fiaschi '.
iPQLYNESIEN L. Boulard
Dates of Departure.
Melbourne J Adelaide
1 p.m. IJI puu.
31 Sept. 2
1- Oct. 3
1 Nov. 3
I
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarierplace, Sydney.'
E. BLANC, Principal Agenfc.
Miscellaneous.
CROMARU
v.o
Whisky;
Greenlees brothers \]W
m IGhDON AND : V-
•IB
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
q 11, FOR A MOUSTACH Ell
Capillarine!
jpe?" The Lightning Moustache Producer. TSt
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Us?. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CICtIK .V AITKIN, Sole Agents.
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
“THS LOUXGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
Tli" most eomforlab’e over offered r>> Hairdressers or
Demids, xvoi'Ks easy, is a nice, liubt looking chair, and is
ail c i'e I iiii|>niM iir nt upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—'
CRAIG <Sc AITKEK,
NEW SOUTH WALKS HAKBEKS' SUPPLY HOUSE.
who «V OH* George Slmd, Sydney.
tW" NOW PITHLISHEI).
“ The Last of Six.”


fj
SmP^ ST
_ 6WIK6
iodine
©rlid
Before purchasing any oilier
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
tH e
1
HOME
&
If
dsf
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET,'BRISBANE.
“TALES or the CONVICT SYSTEM."
SHAVING MACHINE.
These Machines or Razors, 8/G each, post free. Please see that
the name “W. Jno. Baker, Sydney, ” is on'each Box. 1
Illustrated Booklet, showing accompanying Machine fitted
up in handsome cases for presentation, forwarded post free on
application. ■ ■ 1
W. Jno. Baker,CUTLER.
3 hint*:u stki:i;t, sidnev.
dsf
Shaving
Machine,
POST FREE throughout
the 'World.'
NEWTON & LAMB,
Cabinetmakers* Upholsterers, and General House Furnishers*-
ARTISTIC FURNITURE AT MODERATE PRICES.
,*.. ; . .
CHIMNEY PIECES, INGLE NOOKS, etc.
Designs and Estimates submitted. Architects’ own Designs for Fitments and Furniture accu-
rately carried out. i I" ' "•< ■■
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
\4~ ~ •
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gt-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
H’ Write us 'vitl» regard to any and every description of Machinery yon may want particulars of
«■ Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
‘ Plum •
;* ■ :
p tu
llsi
THE
*
c ipiuiml *
I ITT Sbrand of Razor is something superior to anythin!? that has ever been offered to the public
1 are hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try tins particular brand.
Price
Srngic Razor, in strong leather case, lOj, Gd. : Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case 21a.
Single Rafeor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania. Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN.
OW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Humors
When> their tender Skins are literally On Firk with Itchlng antV
Burning, Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly, and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp. Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete ;
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical ( because
so speed}-), cure, and not to use them*
without a moment’s delay,, is to be guilty'
of positive inhumanity.,., N'o,'greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon, a child than,
a skin without, blemish and' a body nour-
ished with pure blood
Remedies arc the greatest shin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor re me-
■X
'1
S 3
dies, are absolutely pure,, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age,, with the .most gratifying and unfailing success.
Treatment. Cuticura, the great skin cure,'.and 'Cuticura' Soap, an exquisite;
skin.purifier.and beautitier, externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn-
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, clear the skin and'
scalp of ; -crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood. ahch skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood, of. all
impurities and; poisonous; elements, and thus removes the cause. ■
‘‘Aim about, the. Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” '64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations,,
xpo Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. •
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, joc.; Cuticura Soap,.
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, Ui S. A.
Pimples, Blackheads,
red, rough, and oily skin and
hands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
Ifid childhood ore prevented and cured by that most effective of 411 Skin• Purifiers and Beautifiers, the
celebrated Cltllcurs. SOcip.. . Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps,
wl?ile rivalling,in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet and Imirsery soaps. The only pre-
ventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of most facial blemishes. Piice, esc.
“ Lege.r" Tobacco,. “Leger" Tobacco,;
ATOO MCEMBNT EXTRAORDINARY!
BpNFS DJSTEIBFTION TO SMOKERS OR. THE :
> -uj-
£so
OIVIDED
£5O
Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893*
DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING:!
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER, 1893.
* Unprecedented success!
* , V I I E( ?J 3R I ? as . ca . u^hfc 0,1 > and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco lias never been introduced in-
Australm. To .rank tbeir.ppreciation of the startling success of.,the “LEGER,” the manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr, M. SIMMON,S). to increase the Bonus to FIEITY POUNDS.
£5O
£5O
£5O
SS or labels
POUNDS
IpIVIDED, is now, offered to .Smokers, of, the new brand, “ LEGfER,’ 1 distributed as follows ; -
To, the person forwarding- to the Agent the largest number of the M LEGER ” paper ta>
froth the plugs during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN PO
l or the Second Highest, Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest, Quantity, FIVE POUNDS
For the Sixth Highest Quantity; THREE GUINEAS-
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS
Fof the Eighth Highest Quantity* TWO POUNDS
£l5 0
10 0
7 10
5 5
0
3
3
a o
Competition closis December ,17, 1893., Tickets must be sent in not later than December 21 1893.
AA3»oS°- n>l <P ii to, ir m i P r > Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
our statemeh tha?°Hnf S * ‘tkt FR ” TiSh L S GE ?- r Ifc w CoBt | °£E SHILLING to test the accuracy 61
BKMish ' *'"£■ 11 lb Uic best .dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judg'd for yourselves One
lo " h "‘ >ou “ d
Ask for the “ Leg-er” Tobacco—Price, Is. per Block. ;
“ Leger ” has caught on !
your S. t Jbes?r? y ’ thp ° f %g °° d ’ Bp^.,Something for nothing, and
c»fi oJ ar , C f S , C ! f gS T i! l be re< ? eive<J Mr. M. SIMMONS, Hayroarket,,SlDNEY, who is
t loriaed » tic Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors ’
M „ a°T‘s i , t;keep r 8 C^ n obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
iSew South Wales on application to our Agent y P arc or
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
NJ
V,
<<Y
n
TESTIMONIALS
: Lilce the following are constantly arriving
from all parts 0/ the world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’s
galvanic chain
BELT. Read the letters:
From Australia.
1 Mr. W H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S, W„ writes ns follows;
•"T° W. H. Soul Hi Co., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
Say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoon as it is placed on his b'.dy, for I felt the effect
of the belt ns soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of tins belt. 1 ’
From England.
Mr. Ciias. MiddTjETOn, of No, 711 Aston St,, Birmingham,
spoaksns follows: ‘ - I can say that I have felt bettbr, u groat
deal, sincj I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not lake any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.”
From America.
Mr. J.W. Pohx/man, Tacoma, I), S. A., writes— “ Your No,
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drugstore
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. X foil 18 feet on my back,
and although I got upas i fnothingbad happened, the back
troubled meeversince until I tried your belt. Far one year
flaw I have felt as I need to at 20.”
KS-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce's Belts.
Call, or write forfree descriptive “Pamphlet No. 2.” and
feme mention M/t/vtiVt-when you address: W. H. Soul & Go.,
PW Pitt St.. Sydney; Kilim t Bros , Brisbane; or. the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Go , Sam Francisco, U. S. A.
m
IS
si
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular (Toth
J)ress Shirts
with
I-ii'Cn Fnnls and Cuffs, !
6 s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable,. and
Durab'e.
A positive Safeguard ■
against Chills.
A hen sending -Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to /‘re-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
ERAHAM & MUTCH,
75 KiN’n St,, SYDNEY.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafingi, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kids, ('nil
particulars, including many unsolicited les imonials and
newspaper press notices, will he sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the meat snot ess-
before (he public. Adlress, All’ll A f
SILCiAUSI Albany buildings, HI) Victoria Street, West-
i minster London S.W 1


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—So. 704.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1893.
Price, 6d.
✓
✓
%
/I
dsf
A DEATH-BED REPENTANCE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for tho Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Waj.es.
TERMS TO SURSCRTBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0 If 6^
Quarterly. ,. , 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The BUBlettn Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
City The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor wilt carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable'),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings, All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS,
LONDON. •>
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:-/?. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetoivn, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Qtieens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers ,■ the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d,
added for postage.
No papers trill be sent tinless the subscription be pre-
paid. There trill be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
♦- —-—-
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Lannces-
ston, -are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1893.
A Burdened Land.
The Dibbs Ministry, among its other recent
inspirations, is of opinion that the time lias
arrived when New South Wales-should reso-
lutely endeavour to diminish the public debt,
by the beautifully simple process of trading
oil’ the nation’s estate to any monopolist who
lias the means wherewith to purchase it.
It arrived at this decision the very same
week that Treasurer See announced the suc-
cessful borrowing of another £1,400,000 in
the local market! The Dibbs Cabinet has
lately been much afflicted over the condition
of burdened New South Wales. It desires
to abolish payment of members because—so
it alleges—the province can’t afford the
£36,000 or so per annum which it involves.
It—or that part of it which consists princi-
pally of Minister Lyne —wants to sell the
railways and tramways to a foreign syndi-
cate, on the thin pretence that the nation
can’t afford to own them any longer. It
wants to reduce the public debt on the
ground that the province is too poor to pay
the interest, and it doesn’t want to reduce it
by further taxation on the ground that the
country is too poor to pay the principal
either. Therefore, the only remaining alter-
native is to trade oft’ the land in huge areas
at low prices, and—by reason of the alleged
poverty of the country—it will necessarily
be sold to the übiquitous British syndicate.
Where the carcase is, there the British syn-
dicate is always gathered together.
* ~ * *
According to Minister Suttor— who is the
outward and visible parent of the scheme—
the nitlirecb purpose of it' is to’“ settle the
people on the land.” But if Mr. Suttor is
even one remove from imbecility he must be
fully aware that it will answer no such end.
The syndicate is always the principal buyer
on such occasions, and it never settles
on the land under any circumstances. It
merely prevents other people settling there
until they pay from 100 to several thousands
per cent, more than the original purchase-
mouey for the privilege of doing so, and
then it spreads its white waistcoat and takes
flight ’Ome with the profits. Even granting
that the land-speculators only realise 100 per
cent, on their transactions, which is an ex-
ceedingly low estimate, it would be cheaper
to pay off the public debt with money bor-
rowed from the ordinary three-ball usurer,
or the 40 per shent loan-and-mortgage insti-
tution. For every £lOO of the national
liabilities which are liquidated by this pro-
cess the country ultimately pays £2O0 —or
anywhere up to £lOOO or more —in buying
back the land which has been sacrificed.
And until that ransom is paid the large
land-holder blocks settlement, and prevents
the increase of the revenue by the advent of
a tax-paying population, and manipulates his
parliamentary influence to get new loans
floated to build railways and open up roads
through his land at the public expense.
Then the balance-sheet reads something like
this : On one side, received from the Fat
Man for land, say, £lOO,OOO. On the other,
for railways .and roads through the same,
made at the public expense, say, £lOO,OOO ;
compensation for land resumed, probably
another £lOO,OOO ; to the Fat Man by indi-
vidual settlers to purchase the land which
has thus been made valuable by the public
taxpayer, anything up to £1,000,000 or more*
# ' # #
This is not an imaginary or exaggerated
estimate. The process of selling land in
large areas has always had much the same
result. The State gets an infinitesimal price
for the freehold in the first instance. Then,
through the big syndicate's political influence,
it is induced to spend, in after years, all the
purchase-money, or more, in “opening up
the country.” It also spends a lot more—
sometimes the wdiole purchase-money over
again—in “compensating” the owner for
improving his property at the national ex-
pense. And, last of all, the individuals who
make up the State spend the purchase-
money over again anywhere up to ten or
twenty-fold to get back the land and their
own improvements thereon. If anyone
could reckon up, at this late period, how
much politician Burns’ Hornsby estate
yielded to the New South Wales Treasury in
the first instance, and how much more it has
cost the nation since, it will probably be
found that the transaction has been almost
as expensive as a civil war.
New South Wales, says the Australian
Star, in its apology for the Dibbs Govern-
ment’s recent madness, “ is the most expen-
sively-governed country in the world.”
This lie has been so constantly repeated that
most people now accept it as an established
fact that the province is strugglifig under a
burden of taxation which has no'precedent
in any other country. And, as the natural
result of this alleged overwhelming load, it
is further assumed that to construct public
works or to gradually reduce the public debt
out of revenue is impossible, and the only
way to raise money is through the medium
of the “private enterprise” fiend and the
foreign syndicate and the land-grabber, and
the only means of relief is to sell the State
railways or the State lands, and make all
New South Wales a Fat Man’s monopoly.
It is the papers and the politicians that
constantly advocate this ruinous variety of
private enterprise which wail most bitterly
about the burdens of the nation and the
impossibility of raising further revenue*
Their policy is first to create an impres-
sion that a desperate disease is prey-
ing upon the vitals of the Commonwealth
and, therefore, that a desperate remedy is
necessary, and then to offer that remedy,
which always consists in holding a general
auction of the national assets. And as a
means to this end they are for ever pointing
out that the cost of government in New
South Wales is some £9 a head against some-
thing like £3 in Great Britain, while France,
the most expensively governed country in
the world outside Australasia, expends some-
thing less than £4 per inhabitant in the
management of the State ; and that it is
absolutely impossible to wring more money
out of a ntifion which already suffers from
such unspeakable extortion,
# * •
It is time this venerable assertion received
emphatic contradiction. The Government
of New South Wales is doubtless extravagant,
yet it is not more, but less, extravagant
than the average, and the province itself is
one of the most lightly taxed upon this
earth. The alleged £9 per inhabitant, which
is the annual cost of governing the country, is
partly a falsehood and partly a book-keeping
fiction. The revenue is swelled by including
the gross receipts of the railway and postal
and telegraph departments, and the gross
income from public lands. And the apparent
expenditure is inflated by including the gross
working expenses of all these departments,
the cost of the police force and Education
Department— which, in England, are pro-
vided out of local rates ; the road and bridge
vote —which, in most other countries, also
comes out of local rates, and the rivers and
harbours expenditure which, in lands that
are blessed with a system of local govern-
ment, is generally provided by harbour and
clock trusts. Bat the individual taxpayer
“ gets there just the same.” In New South
Wales, the taxation upon each inhabitant is
about 51s. per annum, against 745. in France,
635. in England, 645. in Holland, and 545.
in Italy ; and, estimated on the national
wealth, it is lower than the whole European
or American average by fully 40 per cent.
The rest is mere inflation, based on an
ambitious system of book-keeping, which has
no object save to produce a vast array of
incoherent and misleading figures,
# » 45
The troubles of New South Wales do not
arise, in any degree whatever, from excessive
taxation. There is no necessity either to
abolish payment of members, or to sell the
railways and tramways to an English syndi-
cate, or to trade off the national estate
either to the foreign or local Eat Man,
from this cause. And there is no possible
reason why the State should not raise
another million per annum by taxation —
principally by taxation on land—and devote
£500,000 of it to public works and the other
£500,000 to the reduction of the public debt.
The country is just now in distress because
the people cannot settle on the land, for the
■Eat Man has got all the best portions of it
and is holding it for a rise, because the
banks have gone down and the Fat Man has
turned the available currency into a “fixed ”
deposit, because rents are higher than wages
will allow, because loan moneys have been
expended in making railways and roads to
improve the Fat Man’s land, and because
“ G-. Pile” and others rage furiously and
imagine a vain thing in the columns of the
Sydney Telegraph, and are constantly plan-
ning new monopolies for the impoverishment
of the land. And, as a remedy for these
evils, Minister Dibbs proposes to give
the Fat Man a monopoly of the Legisla-
ture, Minister Lyne to give him a
monopoly of the railways, and Minister
Suttor to give him a monopoly of the land,
and they all do it professedly out of sym-
pathy for a burdened and over-taxed nation*
But the profession is a glaring lie. The
nation is not over-taxed—at least, not by the
Treasury—it could pay another million per
annum with ease, and two millions without
excessive difficulty ; it is only burdened with
too much Fat Man, and the Dibbs Ministry’s
one idea of reform is to create more Fat
Man, and make the burden worse than it
ever was before.
Abbott on Private Railways.
The voice of that voluminous squatter, W. E.
Abbott, crying aloud in the S.M. Herald for
the sale of the State railways and the establish-
ment of another big monopoly in New South
Wales :
Railway freights here in New South Wales are about
five times as high as on the privately-owned railways of
America. . . I will take the Pennsylvania Railway
Company, which owns 4000 miles of road, pays five per
cent, dividend, and charges producers, averaging all
goods traffic, 0 - 34 d., or just over one-third of a penny, per
ton per mile; . . The average charge for all freights on
the Pennsylvania railway is '34d. per ton per mile. On
the length of our State-owned railway from Newcastle to
the centre of Ihe Murrurundi sheep-district 1(100 miles),
where there is not the slightest engineering difficulty, and
where, with the exception of that within the metropolitan
area, we have the most dense population in New South
Wales, they are as follow :
Scoured wool, 100 miles, 415., equal to 4-92 per ton per
mile, or more than 14 times American rate of - 34 d.
Greasy wool, 100 miles, 325., equal to 3'84, equal to 10
times American rale.
Sheep (alive), 100 miles, 215., equal to 2-52, equal to 7 i
times American rate.
Hides and skins, 17s. 2d. equal to 2-06 equal to 6 times
American rate.
Tallow and Fat, 17s. 2d., equal to 2'06, equal to 6 times
American rate.
Butter and cream, 100 miles, 17s. 2d., equal to 2’OG, equal
to 6 times American rate.
Milk, in cans, 100 miles, 375. 4d., equal t04‘48, equal to 13
times American rate.
Beef, salt, 100 miles, 86s. 3d., equal to 4-35, equal to 13
times American rate, nearly.
Beef, fresh, 100 miles, equal to 2'25, about. Impossible to
say exactly from freight sheets.
Machinery, 100 miles, 61s. 7d,, equal to 7'39, equal to 22
times American rate.
Fencingwire, 100 miles, 365. 3d., equal to 4-S5, equal to 13
times American rate.
Rock salt, 100 miles, 17s. 2d., equal to 2-06, equal to 6
times American rate.-
As a standard for comparison for anyone who wishes to
undertake the work, I will give the average rate per ton
per mile for all the American railways in 1888, and there
is included in this a very much larger proportionate
mileage of non-paying lines through sparsely-settled
country recently built than in Australia. The average
for that year was -455 d., or less than one halfpenny per
ton per mile, and I will further point out that the mileage
of railways in America in proportion to population and
the extent over which they are spread or extended is
very much greater than in Australia. . . . We have
spent 33 millions of money in building State railways in
New South Wales, and to-day We have got the most costly
service in the world, and the one which gives least value
for the freights charged ; and, worse than all, the produc-
tion on which the whole community must live instead of
being assisted, is being crushed on the one side by the
burden of debt incurred to build otir railways, and on the
other by unreasonable freight charges, which defeat their
own object. ... If we had not borrowed or spent
any monev at all in railways, we would to-day have had a
better railway service, and the freights charged to pro-
ducers would not. have been much more than one-fifth of
what they are now. American experience puts that
beyond the possibility of doubt, and at the present stage,
I think, we are fully justified in coming to the conclusion
that whoever may have benefited by the expenditure of
33 millions of borrowed money, the producers of New
South Wales are worse off to-day than they would be if it
had not been borrowed or spent, and in the form of the
State railways we have put an incubus on our backs
which we will find it hard to remove.
# * *
Experience has unfortunately shown that the
world’s strongest point is its ignorance, and
that no assertion is too glaringly untrue to be
believed, provided it is repeated often enough
and with sufficient energy, by somebody who is
Somebody, in a paper that is Respectable. For
this reason, and for no other, it is worth while
to disprove W. E. Abbott from his first asser-
tion to his last, and to demonstrate that his
figures, his statements, and his inferences as to
the advantages of privately-owned railways are
an impudent and noxious deception from be-
ginning to end.
# #
In the first place, the comparison on which he
mostly relics is drawn between a line traversing
the most thickly-peopled part of the compara-
tively thickly-populated United States, and an
outlying railroad traversing one of the more
thinly-peopled districts of the almost empty
continent of Australia. The Pennsylvania road
carries probably more traffic than all the com-
bined railways of Australia and Maoriland, and
it is supported by twice —yes, twice —the popu-
lation of this entire continent. Then the com-
parison is instituted between the average
charges over the whole of one 4000-
mile toad and the heaviest specific
charges upon a 100-mile section of another.
If W. E. Abbott chose instead to com-
pare the average charges all over New South
Wales with the specific rates upon, say,
machinery for the section of the Southern
Pacific railway between El Paso and Tucson —
which also presents no “engineering difficul-
ties ” —he could prove quite as honestly that
the American private railways charge almost
ten times as much as the State lines of the pro-
vince wherein he lives. It is all a matter of
judiciously garbling the figures. Or even if he
compared the average rates over the specially-
favoured Pennsylvania railroad with the aver-
age rates in New South Wales, he would have
been able to produce the flabbergasting result
that the former, despite its enormous popula-
tion and immense traffic, only charges a micros-
copic fraction of a farthing per ton less all
round than the latter. And if the- average
x-ates for the wdiole of the United States are
compared with the average for New South
Wales, the difference becomes imperceptible—it
is even a question whether the latter are not the
cheaper of the two. Or again, if the Santa Ee
line, which travels mostly through a region
which is the duplicate of Australia in fnany
respects, is compared with the New South
Wales lines in general, the rates of the latter
are a good deal the cheaper of the two. W. E.
Abbott’s syllogism is something like this : The
Czar of Russia is supposed to own £60,000,000 in
personal property; The Australian swagman is
worth, perhaps, £1 on an outside estimate.
Therefore, the average Russian is 60,000,000
times richer than the average Australian. His
logic is not exactly like that, but it is built on
the same plan.
# # *
The mileage of American railways is not,
despite W. E. Abbott’s bald assertion to that
effect, “ very much greater ” in proportion to
population than that of Australia. Instead of
that, the proportions are almost exactly equal;
And—also despite Mr. Abbott’s naked as-
surance to the contrary —there is certainly
not in the United States nearly so large “a
proportionate mileage of non - paying lines
through sparsely-settled country ” as in Aus-
tralia, for the sufficient reason that every line
through “ sparsely-settled country ” has been
bolstered up by enormous grants of land or
money from the Federal Government or the
various State Treasuries, or both combined.
New South Wales—again in spite of Mf.
Abbott’s glaring inaccuracy on the other side
of the question —has not got the costliest rail-
way service in the world, The New South
Wales vState railways were built for less cost
per mile than those of the United Stales, and
also at less cost than those of Great Britain,
France, Germany, Russia, Austria, Italy,
Spain, Portugal, Holland, Belgium, Switzer-
land, Roumania, Algeria, Egypt, Canada, or
Japan. And the average annual working ex-
penses per mile are several pounds less than those
of the United States, and also less than those
of Europe in general. Further, the percentage
of profit realised on capital invested is greater
in New South Wales than in Russia, Austria,
Italy,- Portugal, Sweden, Norway, Denmark,
Canada, or the United States, and greater than
the average of the world at large. And just
here it is appropriate to mention that the
average goods-rate in the United States is a
trifle over one halfpenny per ton per mile, so
that Mr. Abbott’s figures on this head are as
unreliable as all his other figures. Further, the
whole assumption that the United States rail-
ways are examples—good or bad—of private
enterprise, is bogus and false and an
ignorant if not a premeditated delusion.
Over more than two - thirds probably
nearly three-fourths—of the country almost
every important railway was built by Govern-
ment assistance, and some of them got so much
assistance in land and hard cash that the nation
really provided the whole railway and the com-
pany owned it. One awful example actually
built a second line, chiefly out of the Govern-
ment assistance granted in aid of the first
one. Therefore, if New South Wales had
adopted this system of private enterprise
from the beginning it would have owed as much
money as it does now—and it would have had
no national assets whatever to show for the
outlay. It is time the Fat Man gave Up his
oft-told tale about the blessings of private
railway ownership as exemplified in the United
States. That one bottomless sink of corruption,
the Union Pacific line, has alone cost the State
something like £12,000,000 in various kinds of
assistance, and it is only a single specimen out
of many. ,
Land Law Quackeries.
“ I would not sell the freehold of an acre of the
public estate on a pastoral basis ; until it is
wanted for farming let it be leased. I have the
same objection to small freehold squattages as I
have to large—the difference being that be*
tween the Squire and squireen.” That is the
voice of a man moving along to meet the times
without knowing the road, and very careful not
to go too far. It is the voice of G. H. Reid,
leader of the N.S.W. Opposition —a political
squireen who is painfully solicitous of standing
well with the neighbouring landed gentry with-
out having his skull cracked by the shillelaghs
of the crowd who are going to fight them. Mr.
Reid has come to see that private ownership of
land is doomed in the public mind just at the
same time that payment of members has been
condemned by the Ass. Therefore he keeps in
the middle of the road, wdiistles loudly, and
makes a show of valiantly opposing both.
* *' *
His opposition to the Democratic principle of
payment, of members (it is not an expedient,
but an integral lump of the bedrock of the ideal
electoral system) is definite and means some-
thing. He will vote with anybody who makes
war on it. His opposition to land monopoly
is of a vague and shaky sort which doesn't see
any particular enemy of the people but the
pastoral land-grabber, or any method of land-
grabbing but direct alienation from the Crown.
The vacuous blather of some of Australia’s lead-
ing politicians shows how far they are from
comprehending what is required in land legis-
lation. Premier Dibbs would fix the thing up
by preventing anyone from selecting more than


once. N.B. Wales Lands Minister Copeland
wants everybody to have his own land and be
neither landlord nor tenant. And now Reid
would let nobody buy land except for agricul-
tural use. All these proposals are dust and
ashes. Probably those who put them forward
know' it as well as do all who are thought-
fully desirous of effecting land reform.
Copeland should know it especially, because
he once pointed out that, if everybody were
given equal portions of land, there would soon
be some found with a great deal and others
with none at all.
# # #
That is quite true, and its truth shows the
insincerity or the brainless insufficiency of what
the three eminent politicians named have pro-
posed. If a man were permitted to select
land only once, and anything occurred to
deprive him of it (as a mortgagee probably
would), he could never again hope to own
land, save in the highly improbable event
of himself becoming a mortgagee or a pur-
chaser. It doesn’t matter a tig what class of
purchaser land is sold to, save in one respect.
If land is worth having it will, under freehold
tenure, sooner or later, find its way into the
possession of banks and wholesale individual
owners, but the process of accumulation is a
little slower if some such method as Reid
suggests is resorted to, that is all. Under
Robertson’s Act whole districts of New South
Wales were taken up by bona-fide selectors
whose necessities or whose interests made them
sell out, and these districts now belong nomin-
ally to a few squatters but actually to a number
of bank shareholders. Dibbs’ one-man-oue-
selection remedy would strengthen the position
of the banks and the land monopolists by
creating a class who, having selected and been
“gone through,’’and beingprevented bylaw from
again selecting, would be forced to compete
with each other for employment. Reid’s idea,
if it isn’t too much like hyperbole to so call it,
isn’t worth shucks; Copeland’s talk is just
naked, unadorned slush.
* * m
The Bulletin advocates the total abolition
of private ownership of land. The whole
matter can be disposed of simply and effectively.
Lease the unalienated portions of the pub-
lic estate to the highest bidder, without
stopping to ask whether he is going
to grow sheep on it or potatoes, and
sell not at all. That is what an individual
would do if he owned it and knew that every year
would, on the average, greatly increase its value.
The man who was ready to pay most per annum
for a given area of land would, by doing so,
furnish the best possible guarantee of putting it
:to its most profitable use. On the portion
i that has already been alienated clap a tax
.that will recoup the public for the money they
ihave expended in making it valuable. This
'will compel the owners of these portions to put
i them also to their most profitable use, or-else
• give somebody else a chance to do it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“G. Pile,” Agriculturist.
‘That fab man whom we have always with us,
“G. Pile;”, writes to the S.M. Herald, sug-
gesting the [formation in Australia of “ farming
companies ” ctp run wheat-farms of 40,000 or
(KhOGOacreseach. Thisidea is a new development
,of the old capitalistic incubus. Hitherto, there
was always one chance for the individual toiler
.in Australia —under certain favourable condi-
: tions., which did occur now and then, he could
get a small piece of land, and grow enough
.produce to make a, living, and be independent
•■of the world, and the employer, and the iron
i law of wages, and other industrial troubles.
The land was the one resourpe to which he was
: always directed, and to settle the people on
i the land was ..every politician’s remedy for
• every evil beneath the sun. But the Fat Man,
]per medium of “G. Pile,” has evidently
begun to realise that all this is waste sentiment.
The ostensible .idea-T-especially the idea enter-
i tained by politicians ..wfien a general election is
inear afc baud —.has .always boon that the land
should be made to sustain ,as u mftny people us
i possible in .order to .dpniuisli poyerty and
j provide for , the ~eter; n al “ unemployed. ” G.
■ Pile’s idea is that the land should employ as
• few people as possible —that iptp.stiy,,as,few i as
nit can possibly be worked with—so that there
i may be more dividends fur the syndicate. The
1 old - fashioned 200 - acre selection, worked
iin the old, mean, cominqu fashion, might
easily afford a living and a comfortable
i home, and a certain amount of .the plea-
sures of civilised existence to a family of
1 perhaps six or eight. The 00,000-acre farm,
i run by a company and a board of directors and
: a secretary, and with the work mostly alone by
1 machinery, would supply employment to per-
haps 30 or 40 homeless nomads crowded
: together in a hut, and to a variety of .steam*
1 engines and other patent implements. But it
' wouldn’t supply a home to anybody. It would
i probably turn out larger profits per acre than
‘ the small selection worked by the individual
Agriculturist, but that is all. Fat Man’s con-
stant ambition is to do without humanity. The
’ “ lower orders ” he regards as existing only, fo
' turn the mill and grind out dividends, and if
1 they can be partially.or wholly superseded then
1 they cease to have any right to exist at all. If
! the great limited-liability farm ever becomes a
success, it will gradually eat up the cockatoo
fanners. And as only about one-fourth of
them will be wanted—at 15s. per week —under
the new regime, the rest will drift into the
’ cities and join the unemployed, and then G.
Pile and his friends will write to the papers
to ask, in a truculent tone, why they don’t
“settle on the land?” It is always the Fat
Man who is most violently astonished at the
neglect of other people to settle on the land.
Bogus!
The “ sub justice ” cry with which discussion of
the Mercantile Bank case has been lately
silenced, was a fraudulent cry all the time.
Whilst the Vic. Assembly talked of Davies and
Millidoe being upon their trial the unen-
lightened public didn’t suspect that there was
amnion in the atmosphere, yet every lawyer
iu the Mouse anticipated what was coming.
When Judge Holroyd found himself legally
unable to keep an alien out of the grand jury—-
notwithstanding that there were nine in excess
of the minimum 13 jurors, without including
the alien—the whole business was practically
killed on the spot. The so-called True Bill
couldn’t be other than a bogus bill, and the
bringing back of Davies to “ meet the charge ”
was a ghastly delusion, inasmuch as the charge
was merely a blank cartridge. Every phase of
the Mercantile Bank case has somehow been as
rotten as the Shakespearian state of Denmark,
this latest—perhaps the last—phase was the
rottenest of all. Davies and Mii.lidge were
never before the Criminal Court, so said Chief
Justice Madden. They took their seats at
the back of a court, attended by certain
members of the aristocracy, but the Court
knew them not as prisoners. The manager of
Melb. Standard was fined £lOO and sentenced
to a week’s imprisonment for prejudicing the
trial of men who were never properly arrested,
for whose arrest there was no legal justification,
and of whose alleged crime the Criminal Court
had no cognisance. The conviction of Mr.
James Thompson for “ contempt ” was founded
on a hollow mockery, his £lOO was obtained
under false pretences, and his week’s imprison-
ment expiated an offence which hedidn’tcommit.
The grand jurymen were 23 legal fictions, and the
-Standard’s report of their deliberations couldn’t
affect the welfare of Davies and Millidge in
the smallest legal degree. From the time when
Bryan O’Loghlen publicly and privately in-
formed Matthew Davies that a nolle prosequi
had quashed the magisterial decision, the said
Matthew Davies has not enjoyed the special
protection of a court, wherefore no court could
be treated with contempt on his account. If
that isn’t Law, it sounds uncommonly like it.
The proceedings of the grand jury, under Judge
Holroyd’s direction, were invalid. In the eye
of the Law they didn’t take place, and the
newspaper which commented upon them was
dealing with a myth, and printing a harmless
fairy tale.
■ ♦
"At the Same Time.”
G. fit. Reid, of New South Wales, expresses
the flabby things which he calls his “views”
on payment of members ;
I have always opposed payment of members, and any
proposal to repeal the Act will find me supporting' it. At
the same time I cannot imitate the confidence of Sir
George Dibbs in denouncing it as he has done. As my
speeches years ago on the subject in the House will show,
I have always recognised that the opposite view can be
supported strongly. In 1889 I made this remark : "Now,
I quite admit that this system of payment of members is
not a principle. It is simply a matter of expediency.”
On April 1, 1886, on a motion in favour of payment,
moved by Mr. Hbydon, I put it this way: “ I believe there
is a very good and strong argument in favour of the reso-
lution. At the same time, viewing it as a whole, and
testing it by what I believe to be the one question we
have to consider, namely, whether the change will be the
best thing for the country—for that is the question, and
not whether we are entitled to be paid or not—l
am not personally disposed to the hoi. member’s
motion.” I take up precisely the same position
now. Public men have been so strongly divided on this
subject that it has always been an open question, both
with Governments and Oppositions, and I believe it will
always remain so. I confess my views against payment of
members have not been weakened by my experience in
the present Parliament. At the same time it is only fair
to express my belief that the present Parliament, from its
peculiar constitution, would have been a failure whether
paid or not. The transparently selfish use of this question
made by Sir George Dibbs certainly does not impress me
favourably, but I shall feel bound to support any proposi-
tion for a change whenever and by whosoever it is made.
From what I know of the large number of freetraders both
inand out of Parliament, who are honestly in favour of
the payment of members—my friend, Mr. Wise, I believe,
is one. (Mr. Wise: “Yes.”) I will never be a party to
any attempt to make the question other than it has
always been- an open one.
“ At the same time,” Reid doesn’t even sit on
a fence definitely. He never took up any
definite position on the subject, and he “takes
up precisely the same position now also, he
will oppose payment of members, but he won’t
oppose it strongly, because he knows there are
“ good and strong arguments ” in favour of it,
and, on the whole, he will vote both ways if
possible, and sit on the fence at the same
time, and be absent, if possible, when the
question comes up. The Bulletin has
always been of opinion that G. H. Reid
is a mere political disease and an obscure and
indefinite disease at that—not a tangible com-
plaint, but only “a symptom akin to the
above.” The country isn’t going to leave pay-
ment of members an open question ; but it will
leave G. H. Reid himself an open question,
because he is gone in the hinges and won’t
shut. Also, payment of members is a principle
which is included in the principle of one-man-
one-'vote. While payment of members is
threatened the safety of democratic representa-
tion is threatened. No true Democrat can
follow anybody who, like Reid, says he is
ready to but a 30-inch hole and three tightly -
tamped dynamite cartridges into the bedrock of
manliopd franchise. Let it bo said again :He
who abolishes payment of members reinstitutes
a property-qualincatioi) for voters.
—— '
The Australian Star remarks, in a broken
voice, that Davies and Millidge, now that the
indictment against them has been quashed,
“ are left in the unsatisfactory position of
having a charge made against them which
plight pr plight not be sustained by the evi-
dence ; but they cannot be brought to trial, nor
have they any means of clearing their character
fropi the imputation of fraud.” When you read
this, it makes you feel really sorry for Davies
and Millidge, until you remember how they
fought with tooth and claw to avoid the chance of
clearing their “ character.” But apparently the
farce of pretending to believe that the tw’o Mer-
cantile Bank gentlemen are pining for a chance
to clear their “character,” and that it -was nob
they but some complete stranger who got the
indictment set aside on a technical point, is to
be kept up to the bitter end. The same good
old paper is of opinion that any further pro-
ceedings would savour of “ persecution.” That
means that because Davies and his pal have
fought desperately, mid with some success, to
avoid being brought to trial they ought to get
off And yet when a man accused of picking
pockets does just the same thing the Star
cheerfully records that lies got six months extra
for violently resisting the police in the execu-
tion of their duty, and the idea that it was
“ persecution ” to arrest him when he objected
so strongly to being arrested is never even
mentioned.
o— _
Dear Bulletin, — The most interesting speeches
and the ones which convey the most informa-
tion are those which were never delivered.
The following is the speech which Premier
Dibbs didn’t deliver at Penrith on the abolition
of payment of members, and it contains a lot
more facts in a given space than the oration he
got off his chest on that memorable occasion :
Gentlemen, —Payment of members must be abolished. I
used to advocate it strongly, but my views have changed.
Payment of members has created the Democratic-party
which lias made itself obnoxious by spoiling many games
in which various friends of mine are interested. Also
that party hasn’t followed or supported either me
or Mr. Reid ; it doesn’t assist any one in getting
into office, nor in staying in office after he has got
there. The business of every party is to help somebody
into office, and when it fails to do that it ought to he
abolished. A party which stands aside and only supports
a Cabinet so long as it adheres strictly to its election
promises and doesn’t care whether it is in office or not, is
an incubus, and is subversive of the system of Party
Government. That system depends entirely on the
House being divided into two sections, one of which sup-
ports the Ministry whether it is right or wrong, while the
other supports the Opposition whether it is right or
wrong, and the existence of a third party which doesn’t
blindly follow anybody is ruinous. The only way to
abolish that third party and put things once more
on the old footing is to wipe out payment of
members. The Foreign-traders will support me in this
matter, as the Democratic party is of no more assistance
to them than it is to me. Moreover.it has made many
unpleasant remarks about my acceptance of a title and
abandonment of Republican principles, and, as the
business of a statesman consists mainly in abandoning
principles when it is convenient or advisable to do so, it
will, if it is not extinguished, probably make itself
equally disagreeable on many future occasions. A party
which takes up a position that enables it to seriously
criticise anybody for abandoning his principles is a dis-
grace. D Chicago (great applause).
I propose some clay to bring out a book of the
speeches which weren’t delivered. The above
is one of them.—Yours, &c., Titus Salt.
.
Thus a correspondent
Editor Bulletin,— The appointment in N.S. Wales of
“ Honorary ” Fishery Inspectors—no salary but half the
fines—is producing its natural result. When a man’s
dinner, so to speak, depends upon a conviction, that man
is apt to be less particular in his methods than if he were
a disinterested, salaried official. In the same way, once a
fisherman realises that the removal of a certain official is
necessary to his obtaining a living, that official will be
removed. This may seem very far fetched, but when we
remember that the fishing fraternity includes members of
the lower classes of most of the European nations—to
whom assassination does not present the same aspect it
does to us—and when we further consider the facilities
their life offers to undetected crime, it is quite on the
cards that any “over-officious official” would shortly dis-
appear. One man in particular the fishermen “ have
their knife into”—metaphorically now—literally in good
time. In fact, it may be worth Dibbs’ while to know that
their appointment as “Honorary Inspectors” will pro-
bably soon be a means of effectually ridding him*
self of any obnoxious supporter! Even the divinely-
instructed Galilean fishermen would render them-
selves liable under the existing law, for an
Inspector—whether inspired by zeal, private spleen,
or an empty pocket—can find a pretext for seizing
the nets of nine out of every ten fishermen. Losing their
nets means ruin, but they’ve got to stand it, or—well, the
other day, at Lake Macquarie, a net was seized for
“ over length,” despite the assurance of the Govt, (late
last session) that this part of the Act would not be
enforced. This particular case is noteworthy as being a
reversal of the usual order. The inspector seized and
took possession of the net—a night or two afterwards it
disappeared. Now, being the first offence, the net, after
the conviction, must be returned. If it is not recovered
in the meantime the Government must replace it. On
the night the net was stolen two boats belonging to the
Commission also disappeared—one was subsequently
found full of stones and the bottom knocked in —the
other is still missing. The destruction of property pre-
cedes the destruction of life by a very little.— Ponte.
Editor Bulletin, — About 18 months ago, I
began to bore for gold upon the freehold land
(N.S.W.) of a friend of mine, the minerals
being reserved to the Crown. I spent some
nine months’ time and much money in boring
until I struck good payable gold. My friend
then applied for a permit to mine upon his
land. A month having passed (without official
reply) enquiry was made at the Mines Dept.,
which said the application was not in order.
After further delay wc obtained the services of
a solicitor, who ascertained that the application
was in order, but was told that it would not be
dealt with ‘ ‘ until the Mining on Private Pro-
perty Bill had gone thi’ough the House.” After
the death of this Bill further enquiry w r as made
but all to no purpose, and the permit appears
to be as far off as ever. Does Parliament really
desire to promote legitimate work for the
unemployed ? If so, why are these applications
shelved month after month? Had the Bill
become law, perhaps certain people well-known
in Sydney would have been able to grab the
land which I have proved to be valuable ; and
doubtless it would suit the same gentlemen
very well if the application should remain on
the shelf until the Bill is passed, which doubt-
less it eventually will be. I don’t mean to say
that these persons have been able to delay the
granting of the permit, but I do say that it is
particularly hard upon a dozen men (as in the
present case) to be kept out of work for no
reason whatever. —Miner.
•‘Her Majesty’s Government” is very tired
indeed of the young Scotch earl kind of Austra-
lian Governor, as The Bulletin remarked a
while ago. Kintore, itching to get back to his
banks and braes, has been informed that Her
Majesty’s Government would like him to do his
full six years. This was about the nastiest
official “jar” that any earl with high cheek-
bones could reasonably expect to get, but Kin-
tore professes to be ‘ ‘ very sensible of the com-
pliment paid him.” He takes it to mean that
Gladstone and Queen Victoria consider the
prosperity of S.A. to be bound up in Kintore,
whereas they are merely afraid of the whole
vice-regal business exploding if these out-and-
home-again johnnies play any more tricks with
it. Already the fictitious social importance of
Governors’ wives has been burst up by the
reckless behaviour of those ladies in tripping
away for the benefit of their health. Kintore’s
wife is “ home ” at the present time, and her
social value to the empire can be judged by the
fact that they want Kintore to serve the last
two years of his term without any regard to her
absence. Just as though he were Governor
“ Bill” Robinson.
*
Subsection “d” of Parkes’ new “Federal
League of Australia ” scheme reads:—“ln the
Civil Service the inhabitants of the province to
have the preference, all other things being
equal, in all appointments and promotions.”
The “all other things being equal” is the
verbal artifice under winch a Minister can
simply do what he likes. No Minister in Aus-
tralia has imported so many men for Civil Ser-
vice posts as has Parkes in his day, and never
did he import one without at the same time
stating that “ all other things being equal,” he
would have preferred employing a local man.
To a man afflicted with the importation disease
things are never equal as between a local man
and an influentially-connected Britisher, if the
salary be high and the duties light. Any new-
national league which is formed in Australia
should make a determined set to abolish the old
abused phrase from its manifesto or to her-
metically seal the executive of the new' scheme
against the tampering machinations of the old
operators.
Thus Arthur Rae, M.L.A. :
Dear Bulletin, —lie elective Governors, Which 1 think
you advocate, why any Governor? A little less than a
year ago 1 was present at a division taken intheM.L.
House of Representatives on Grey’s Bill (or motion) in
favour of elective Governors. The motion was only
defeated by one.vote. Radical John Ballance, to my
surprise, voted with the majority. A few minutes after-
wards I asked Mr. Ballancb why he voted against such
an obviously democratic proposal. His reply is notable
as coming from one of the most sincere and logical demo-
crats who ever attained the position of popular leader.
He said, “1 oppose an elective Governor because I am
opposed to Governors altogether, believing them to be
quite unnecessary, and I am therefore averse to
strengthening their position by making them more
popular.” He went on to explain that our system of
Party Government differed so widely from the American
system, where the elected President is a real
power in politics, that we could not successfully weld
the two together. He therefore advocated the abolition
of Party Governments and Governors, election of the
Ministry by Parliament, and the Premier, for the time
being, to assume the formal duties of Governor without
extra pay or extra social obligations. Ballance’s reasons
for desiring the entire abolition of the name and office of
Governor are interesting as showing the real nature of the
man. He said, in effect—politically the Governor is litll j
mors than a figure-head, but as the leader of “society”
he is the head of the plutocratic class, and sets an evil
example of rank worship which encourages every class in
the community to ape the manners and style of those
above them socially, thus creating a false and vicious
standard of public life. To make our Governors elective
would be to strengthen and popularise the institution,
and thus perpetuate these evils ; I, therefore, look to the
abolition of the office, when the people are ripe for this
reform. It was characteristic of Ballancb that while
frankly avowing his opinions, when necessary, he never
paraded them, and while a thorough politician, a tactician
and an opportunist, in the best sense of that word, be
never lost sight of his ideal of Democracy, nor missed a
chance of advancing it a step. Coming from the Dead
Chief of Democracy, whose loss was to me a personal
bereavement, the above sentiments may be of interest to
your readers.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Old Forty-Nine ” : You say that you fix the
price of “ Looney Bill ”at two guineas. We fix the value
at minus ten guineas, and are by no means sure that
you haven’t a good libel action against yourself for
writing the miserable thing... “ A.A.” (Box —, G.P.0.):
No, you aren’t the man we requested to calh You are
the man we strongly urged to stay away. And \ve
strongly urge it again, “Little Bertha’’: You are
wrong in thinking that “ God has gave you the gifft of a
poet”—it was the other fellow. One verse is sufficient
proof;—
Because our goodly parson
once in his life at a teefight
tried with Gods help amuse a persoh
the bad newspaper man says it wasn’t right.
....“James M'Manus ” : You say that “any thing you write
attracts more than passing notice,” and then you send 58
pages of monologue by a frog “T.M.” : Send
address “ Eandwick”: (1) They still exist. (2) We
know of no literature on the subject “ David Mack ” :
The peaceful-looking cook who frankly and candidly flogs
the whole shed of aggressive shearers is a venerable
wheeze “J. Kerr”: You will “subscribe to the paper
for ever ”if your poem is published. All right. Pay the
subscription in advance, and in it goes “ The Wom-
bat”: (1) Nothing in it. (2) Will try, in our own
hopeless fashion, to find the two-year-old tale
“ H. V.” : Regarded as horse-stealing it is Al, but it isn’t
much in the way of verse. Horses ought to be stolen in
prose “ Mulga ” : The opium-girl is a good anecdote
spoilt by great slabs of danK sentiment round the camp-
fire “ VV.G.” (Adelaide): Received; many thanks ...
“The Whaup ” ; Good item “A.M.” (Sydney): The
starving pressman earning a guinea by writing a eulogy
on his brutal landlord is a good idea badly worked out.
... “J. Stuart" (Brisbane): We are tired of shearing-
poetry—sick of the shed and the cook and the ringer and
Hellfire Jack and the rouseabout and all the rest ..
“James Miranda” : No, we have no “axe to grind” in
advocating the establishment of a Democratic daily paper
in Sydney. The Bulletin has plenty work of its own to
do, and, being perfectly and absolutely free, it is quite con-
tent to hoe its own row. But it would be inexpressibly
delighted to see established a brilliant, brutally-honest
moleskin daily with no sneaking “ society ” aspirations in
its heart. Such a paper could, in the first place, do more
for the Democracy than 20 Parliaments. The task of the
existing daily press is to politically slow-poison the
people when they' can’t be openly stabbed or clubbed
“John C. M‘Kenna” (Castl.); Should be drawn large in
Indian ink on white paper or Bristol board “Tasso”;
Fred. Marshall died years ago of brain-disease “Yar-
rum”: Hackneyed ... “ A.A.D.8.”: “The Sphinx” a
faraway subject.P.”: “Why do the boys in offices
eat their lunches at ten o’clock?” We don’t know, but
why does the world, metaphorically speaking, always eat
its lunch at ten o’clock? “ Irish-Australian” : Sorry
we can’t possibly find it “Constant Reader” (Ne\v-
castle): An old story with an unimportant variant..
“ C.L.” Parkes, 15 years ago, had already said all he had
to say worth listening to.. “Bushwhacker”: “A,” if you are
in credit and want to do solid business “ Fossicker ”:
A very charming subject of which you have by no means
made the most. Name and address, please “J. 8.”
(M. Island): Great Eastern—length, 080 ft. ; breadth,
83ft. ; depth, 60ft; tonnage, 18,195 gross; 13,334 net.
The first attempt to lay a cable was made by the ships
Agamemnon and Niagara in Aug. ’57. After repeated
failures, connection was established between Ireland and
America on Aug. 7, '5B, but, owing to a faulty insulator,
the cable failed Sept. 1. The Great Eastern, after one
failure, left Ireland July 13, ’6O, and completed her task
on July 27. On Aug. 4 of same year, the cable was de-
clared open. An engineer named Canning was in command
of cable-laying “Fill May Hieroglyphics received....
“ M.R.” : A thing cannot be “rather unique.” The word
“ unique ” is absolute, and admits of no qualification
“ Marco W.”: “ Drink is the cause of nearly all crimes.”
That is sweeping. Drink is only the cause of unsuccessful
crime. Successful crime and abstinence go arm-in-arm.
“ J.H.P.” (Q.): Thanks. The Bulletin is issued at
6d., and the publishers do not like to see retailers charge
more “A.O’M.”: Unhappy reference to “Marah’s
cup.” It isn’t so nauseous as O’Mara’s verse “H.
Lewis”: Is it original? —“E.A.H.M.”: Excellent. Will
soon print ...“Chitty”; Thanks “E.P.S.”: Square,
so far as we can judge —“ U.J.0.”: Nicely written, but
unsuitable. Try again... “Q.M.” (Redf.): Archaic and
laborious “ Carmag ”: To hand “W. Logan ” (W.):
You speak in parables. Please send translation
“ D.G.” (Warmatta): Many thanks “D.W.”: Kindi/
ca 11... “C. Ter.” : The Bulletin lives on meat-essence ;
not on meat-hunks “T.V.”: Yes, fat is force when it
isn’t mere blubber. Any brainy man who is fat and
energetic can “own the earth” if he wants to “ E. C.
Kelso ” : The only “ live thing ” we have ever seen in out
waste-paper basket was a young fox-terrier pup
“E.M.D.” (Hobart): Commonplace... “W.C.C.” (H.):
A very first-class libel “Prariro”: The gallows never
deters a real murderer from murder unless detection is
certain and the potential criminal is mVW the scaffold's
shadow. These conditions ore only met with in gaol, and
even there, as history shows, the gallows is by no means
an absolute deterrent. [Many replies held over.]


|ptic6 to fSuit all Qightd.
Fitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
flesl PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
: i 6/- per Pair,
fhe celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10/6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «5c ROBERTS,
.If.weli.bry Showrooms,
3* BIINTKK STREET, SVDVKf.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. G-ood and Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD ;
Melbourne
1888.
fds
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO
rAVKKNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
,I,IV other brand. ' Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name arid Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney.
August 9, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Sunday-school teaching, d la the “Vicar of
Bray,” will be the next fad for Sydney belledom.
The shining example has been set by Miss Duff,
who teaches a factory-girls’ class at Government
House every Sunday, and if all the fashionable clerics
haven’t soon got to pick and choose between the
flower of their silk-petticoated flock when they
want a dear sister to tell the guileless Sunday-
school infant all about Jonah and the big fish, my
name isn’t Smith. But if imported vice-regalities
begin to waste their patrician energies in Sunday-
schooling—if we are to see the class for Scriptural
research decorously wending its way up the vice-
regal avenue with its hair parted in the middle—
—well. Government House will perhaps be very
“good,” but it will probably not be a very lively
place of entertainment. And Government House
is either a lively place of entertainment or nothing
at ail.
There is an outspokenness about Tasmania’s
new Governor, Lord Gormanstown, that argues
badly for the subscription-lists of the Tight Little
Island. He “ intends to spend every penny pt his
official salary,” but not one cent will come out of
his own pocket to keep the ball a-rolling. “The
colonies,” he considers, “ have been spoilt byun-
professional Governors ” like Lord Cariugton, who
sank much more than his salary in entertaining
his oppressors—and Lord Hopetoun, who is still
doing it. But Hobart is already thoroughly used
to the sort of potentate whose ideas of social enter-
tainment culminate in sardine-sandwiches. There
is a rumour of a Ministerial dinner-party given
under the last Hobart dynasty, when six small
oranges bore the whole brunt of the dessert!
The new idea of paring down vice regal salaries
won’t answer at all from a “social ” point of view.
For one thing, a reduction in salary means a
reduction in suite. Viscount Gormanstown, as a
case in point, is arriving with only one squire,
Mr. Rawlison, who comes as “ general utility,”
and the Hobart Jenkinses will have to cultivate
preternatural sagacity to know just when that
young man is acting as secretary and when as
aide-de-camp to His Ex. He will be something
between Pooh Bah and the Plaza Toto “suite,”
and it is not a foregone conclusion that his
appointment will agree with him when the weather
gets warm.
Just think of every future Australian Governor
starting for the scene of his labours with only one
man in his wake ! You can’t rim a Vice-regal
establishment with any show of convincingness
without at least three imported bachelors to liven
up the marriage-market. People might stand the
corned-beef and the raspberry sandwiches without
turning a hair—but cutting off the partner-supply
is quite another thing.
Talking about unprofessional Governors, or
Governors who have very big axes to grind—here
is my recipe for attracting one. Let those silken
bonds get as slack as possible and somebody is
sure to be sent along who will empty both pockets
to tighten them again. But the money isn't
thrown away, from an unprofessional Governor’s
point of view. Lord Carington is now Lord
Chamberlain, and I do sometimes wonder what
Lord Hopetoun will get when he shows his
caterer’s bills to Queen Victoria.
Australia, then, is gradually growing towards
the Republican instead of towards the Imperial
ideal. We may yet see a locally-elected Governor,
at .£485 a year, walk down to the opening of
Parliament to save cab-hire.
An absent mind, sometimes a sign of genius, has
its drawbacks. I was walking down George-
street recently in the wake of a well-dressed
woman—at least she would have been well-dressed
had she attended to details. Her hat was a
triumph and her jacket absolutely faultless, but
she tapered off suddenly into an unmistakeable
petticoat at that juncture, and the effect was
something like a reformed Fiji belle ten minutes
after the arrival of a trader. She had simply
overlooked her skirt, but when the street crowd
began to form in line to let her pass, she gave one
horrified glance downwards, blushed to her eye-
brows, then turned deadly pale, and bolted into a
'bus. But I notice that a thing like that never
h'mpens to a girl who has on a Duff-tartan under-
kirt.
But with the new styles in under-gear, I expect
we shall see much more lingerie in the street.
Petticoats, for instance, are growing as stylish as
skirts—deep frills, laoe edgings, goffers, and what
not. Indeed, some of them look so lovely that
they ought to be constructed on a press-the-button-
and-the-garments-drop-three-feet principle. They
seem the very thing to suddenly subside in a
dainty heap at the feet of some tricky damsel on
the matrimonial war-path.
With made-up silks at sacrifice prices in the
drapers’ windows, the recent enthusiastic meeting
of serioulturists round a glass case of the raw
article at Sydney Government House rather
amused me. Gov. Duff spoke for Lady Duff (who
approves of the movement), and rather dis-
couraged the meeting by saying that sericulture
should be promoted by private enterprise, and not
become a State aided industry—presided over by
the prophet Brady; and then a lady rose and
made the sweeping assertion that somebody had
told her (women, somehow, never seem to know
anything very important for themselves) that one
husband in six ran away from his wife, and that
the silkworm was the one way out of the diffi-
culty. “We should make woman a producer,”
she said. And nobody that I can hear of solemnly
arose and replied: “Providence has done that
for her already, madam.”
But most emphatically the sericultural move*
ment won’t do as it stands at present. Just
listen Housekeeping, too, could be conducted
on the co-operative principle, and it was proposed
to house all the women in one large building,
instead of in a few huts.” The silk-grub is coming
to the top too soon. His proper period is evidently
the Millennium.
Somebody tells me that a potentate who lately
ascended to a high place Somewhere deserves a
vote for Thrift—judging from his policy on the
voyage out. For instance, when he wanted a
squash, he ordered a plain lemon from the steward
and found the other ingredients himself. The
lemon cost two bawbees, ye ken, while the com-
pound runs to double that humble sum. The
consolation is that the people who make their own
squashes never get into the Benevolent Asylum.
Another current story is to the effect that cer-
tain well-paid potentates connected with a certain
vice-regal establishment actually go out riding on
the horses of the police-orderlies, instead of keep-
ing mounts of their own.
N.S. Wales railway-travellers complain of the
shape of the cups at a Northern and a Western
sandwich-shop. They are small and bell-shaped,
and contain a wide, flat surface of tan-coloured
liquid about the depth of an average street-
puddle. The cup is three-parts full, and the
effect of this deluge on a thirsty traveller is about
the same as that of dew on a red-hot shovel. No
wonder so many voyageuses now produce their
own—er —barley- water,
I see now in the S.M. Herald’s “ Births,
Marriages, and Deaths ” column a “ Return
Thanks ” heading. “ Mr. and Mrs. So-and-So
return thanks for the kind sympathy shown them
during,” &c., &c. As this new department can
and will be used in connection with births, mar-
riages, and deaths alike, and as'it affords a means
of impressing the public with the social import-
ance of the advertiser as evidenced by the numer-
ousness of the communications which are acknow-
ledged cn bloc, it should constitute a very substan-
tial addition to the Herald’s income. The “In
Memoriam,” for instance, is a comparatively new
custom—said to have been originally instituted by
the sorrowing widow of a Judge. Yet on many
recent days the “ In Memoriams ” have exceeded
in volume the “ Births, Deaths, and Marriages ”
combined. The “ Return Thanks ” has come to
stay. J ust yon see!
All journalists are interested in the final
victory, after appeal, of Mrs. Coventry, of Bris-
bane, over the Q.N. Agricultural Society. The
lady was hurt by a window falling upon her at
the Society’s public ball, and when she sued the
committee for damages the defence was that her
right to recover was nullified by her having
attended (in her newspaper capacity)as an invited
guest, and not on a bought ticket. Mrs. C. s case
makes a precedent for all other scribes who may
be injured under “complimentary” circumstances
akin to the above. It would have been rather
alarming had the verdict gone the other way, for,
according to the defence, an invitation infers that
the host is at perfect liberty to drop bricks upon
a guest with impunity.
On dit that a very well-known athletic amateur,
who has been served with a writ in what promises
to be a fairly lively divorce-suit, seems rather
proud of the document than otherwise. He
actually pasted it on the inside of the club bath-
room door.
The Fresh Air League ball, which happens this
Thursday (10th). at Sydney Town Hall, promises
to be a great success. Little tea-rooms, where the
dancers'can quench their thirst before supper, will
be a cheerful novelty, and an attendance of nearly
a thousand is expected.
I am requested to announce that “No. 12
United Grand Lodge of N.S.W.—Lodge Tar-
bo 1 ton ’’ will give a grand ball at Nithsdale on
Bth inst. Mr. J. Campbell is hon. sec. Also the
Sandwich dance in aid of the Industrial Blind
Asylum has a very fashionable committee to help
it alqpg.
Sydney University Sports Fund ball was one of
the successes of the hop season although the
attendance was mostly drawn from ’Varsity
circles, and stray ticket-buyers had to dance with
one another. It was more like a large private
ball—for one thing, there were no very official
platform deities to be Anathematised—Premier
Dibbs, Mrs. Dibbs, Mayor and Mrs. Manning and
other patronisers not needing to be set to music.
The hall was lively with bunting and foliage, and
mounds of violets, jonquils and maiden-hair lent
an air of poetfy to the “guzzling and muzzling”
in the vestibule.
The best-dressed woman there, to my way of
thinking, wore biscuit brocade sprinkled with
floral baskets in pink and green, the bodice made
with puff sleeves of green velvet and berthe of old
lace, diamond ornaments; her sister was in
China-blue bengaline with the seams outlined in
gold thread. One or two fancy costumes took the
floor. Miss Irene Bettingtqn as something with
a tambourine in it, and Miss Hilda Caro as a
Nautch girl were cleverly done. Miss Bensusan,
as a ’Varsity footballer —small football whistle
and umpire’s flag—had hit upon a very novel, i^
not an exceedingly becoming disguise, and a
youth turned up in a black shirt and a white
dress-suit as if he had suddenly grown tired of
wearing: them the other way. There was a oap-
and-gown set to open the ball, and I couldn’t help
remarking the number of couples who fell down
in it. It looked for all the world as if over-
development of brain had made them top-heavy.
Myra Kemble absorbs the frock interest ill
“ The Double Event,” at Her Majesty’s. A blue
bengaline and brocade ball-dress, with trimmings
of silver gimp, fitted her like a second cuticle, and
so did a green silk made with a granny skirt and
completely covered with black lace seamed with
moire ribbon, but her final thrill was the best - a
white satin ball-dress covered with white chiffon,
embroidered in violets and leaves, the todice
trimmed with green moire ribbon and chiffon, the
bodice skirt finished with a deep hem of violets.
Jennie Lee dressed her sketch of a sporting bar-
maid as if a skin-fit over a billowy figure was the
one thing needful, and the bundled-up appearance
of Rhoda Halkett, in a mauve silk frock with a
waist to it, made you cease to wonder why she
clings so fondly to pillow-case “Empire”frockery.
By the way, the bluest thing about the “ Blue
Ballet ” in the last act was the graceful premiere
danseuse, whose supports dart forth like pink
lightning out of a black cloud of gossamer with
positively electric effect. But why doesn’t the
management draw society in shoals to the d.c. by
peopling the ball at Potts Point, with imitations
of Sydney social celebrities ? As it is there isn’t
even one adipose woman to lend an air of con-
vincingness to the glittering mise-en-scene.
Yours faithfully.
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Huh Majesty’s “ The Double Event.”
Lyceum “La Cigale.”
Criterion “ Richelieu.”
Theatre Royal “ The Miner’s Right.”
Redkekn Railway Station ... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
% MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING! WEEK.
Princess's.. Terry Comedy Co.
Theatre Royal “ The Queen’s Lace Hand-
kerchief.”
Opera House. Variety Show.
The vanishment of the B. & B. company
will cause more regret than the departure of any
other eon ; jiy which ever quitted Sydney. It
is a stock-company of stars, and Boucicault’s
stage-management as nearly approaches in-
fallibility as anything on record. The com-
pany is excellent in every department,
right down to the artist who comes on with
afternoon tea on a tray, but for his origi-
nality and his marvellous versatility Boucicault
will be the most regretted and the longest remem-
bered. As the Frenchman in “The Amazons,”
the hard, sardonic Irish member in “The Times,”
the schoolboy in “Walker, London,” the other
schoolboy in “The Magistrate,” the weeping
butler in the “Late Lamented,” the Yankee
gentleman in “ The Idler,” the old wrinkled
aristocrat in “Lady Bountiful,” the festive, red-
headed butterfly-man in “The Guardsman”- but
the list of tilings which Boucicault has done, and
done mostly with marvellous brilliancy, is
too long for recapitulation. Also, he was
never the same Boucicault on any two
occasions; every time he was quite a different
Dot with no vestige of resemblance to any of the
others. Pinero, who only knew Dion Boucicault,
junior, as a youth and a comparative amateur,
can have but small idea of bow bright a star now
adonis the Australian stage. The little man has
been heard to bemoan his own smallness of
stature, yet the fewness of his inches but accen-
tuates his triumphs. The English-speaking stage
boasts no other such all-round character-actor.
** m m
The Brough and Boucicault Co. makes its
final appearance at Sydney Criterion to morrow
(Friday). The last week has been devoted to a
series of revivals. “ A Village Priest” was played
on Saturday ; following that came three nights of
“Niobe to-night (Thursday) “ The Grey Mare”
is to be put up for one night only, and one night
of “ The Magistrate” concludes the season. On
Friday, Mrs. Brough is to be presented, on the
Criterion stage, with a souvenir on behalf of a few
among her innumerable admirers, and by some
weird malapropistn Judge Windeyer, of all men on
this circular globe, has been selected to make the
presentation. The advt. doesn’t say whether His
Honor appears on this occasion in his matrimonial
capacity or in his judicial sudden death capacity.
By the way, what has become of Judge Lines?
# m *
“Trial by Jury” gave a leg-up to the
“ Vicar of Bray ” at Sydney Lyceum last Satur-
day. Howard Vernon, as the amorous Judge,
seemed glad to find himself back again among
Gilbertian patter, and was in great form for his
one song, Vernon’s Judge and Arthur Lissant’s
mercurial “Usher,” were the best things in the
show. Miss Graupner, as Plaintiff, acted better
than she warbled ; if the little woman doesn’t turn
her voice out to grass awhile, there soon won’t be
enough of it left to cough with. Ryley, as plain-
tiff’s counsel, cut a most forensic figure in the
horse-hair, and sang with his hands in his pockets,
and defendant Bracy absolutely rollicked in the
tick-a-tack solo. The curtain descended amidst
frantic cheers from the gallery at 8.30. “La
Cigale” on Saturday evening.
** * *
The “ Miner’s Right” commenced a season
at Sydney Royal on Saturday, and its popularity
promises to last for some considerable time. It is
a pleasant drama, full of reminiscences about the
era when men went mining in Australia with
the primeval pick and long - handled shovel,
instead of prospecting on the Stock Exchange and
publishing bogus tips in the Sunday papers, and
when the broken-down, red-nosed man in the
faded green coat didn’t flutter abjectly about
street cornets, and ask all his acquaintances, in a
raucous whisper, if they thought there Was going
to be another bootn. That was also before the fat
man and the hungry, eager, lean man had begun
to seriously infest the land, and the country was
happier for their absence. The first faint symp-
toms of the Fat Man are visible in the drama, by
the Way, but the diggers drag him through
a number of mud-holes and drop him down a wet
shaft, whereas nowadays they would ask him
humbly and regretfully for a job. Probably the
most healthy feature about these golden days in
Australia was the cheerful readiness with which
the diggers would roll the fat man, upon any
reasonable excuse, in any mud-hole that came
handy,
# # #
Otherwise, the “Miner’s Right” consists
of the proceedings of four good men and three bad
ones, a torchlight procession, a song about the
Eureka Stockade, a partially strangled woman
confined in a stable, a murdered woman in
a glen, the jumping of a claim, a hocussed
German, a midnight attack on a gentle-
man who has a large quantity of gold in his
possession, an explosion in a mine, and a murder-
trial decorated with a free-fightin the court. The
most serious shortcoming is the want of a China-
man. Mr. Dampier is the principal digger, and
his most prominent defect is that he looks rather
young for the part. Dampier is the only man The
Bulletin knows who never gets old ; in fact, he
seems to grow more youthful, and some day or
other he will probably die of exposure in infancy.
Harry Leston’s Dutchman—a person who fights in
spectacles—is wildly comic, and Miss Blanche
Lewis annexes most of the other glories.
George Darrell continues his devastating
career with the “Double Event” at Sydney
Ma’esty’s until further notice, the horse-race
having evidently got a firm hold of the public.
Another horsey event, the Fitzgerald Bros.’ circus,
also holds its ground, the firm’s departure, which
was announced last week, having been indefinitely
postponed. The lions have again been assuming
an aggressive attitude towards Captain Hum-
phreys, the “subjugator,” but that gentleman
having formed himself into a hollow square re-
pulsed the attack with great slaughter.
** # *
Walter Bentley opens Sydney Criterion
on September 2 with the grand old drama of
“ Richelieu.” Comedians don’t grow in Scotland
or in the Caledonian wilds of Maoriland; there-
fore, under the new management the Cri. will be
a comedy-theatre no longer, and there will be no
mirth left in Sydney, save that of the sooty
humourist with the bones and his stove-coloured
brother with the tambourine, and the city will be
given up to melodrama, black tragedy and desola-
tion.
*« * *
Sydney Alhambra continues to be a festive
place of amusement, although the programme
changes every week, and the dreadful necessity of
exhibiting a new kind of humour fifty-two times a
year must be a severe strain on the genius of the
most east-iron comique. The stars of the Alhambra
troupe are Delohery, Craydon (who would make
havoc with the d.c. if his show were further up
town, and if calves go for anything), and Holland
(this trio has a special clog dance to popular airs
that always fetches a monotonous encore) and T.
C. Callaghan, who sings funny songs that don’t
make the listener think of death and the bailiffs,
as some funny songs do. Florrie St. Clair and
Florrie Forde put as much colour into their rol-
licking ditties as into their lovely visages. A
variety entertainment, where the coster ditty has
no place, is a pleasant thing to meet these times.
*» * *
There has been nothing new and exciting
in Melbourne shows this last week. The Bijou
opened its door's to the whistling wind for a brief
period, and closed them again with a shudder.
The Alhambra and two or three halls seem to be
left open more by accident than design. For the
moment it is a case of Edward Terry or nothing
with theatre-goers, and therefore they are sup-
porting the Princess’s with mild enthusiasm. “In
Chancery ” was produced on Monday for a season
of five nights—quite long enough considering that
B. and B. worked the comedy long ago for all it
was worth. “In Chancery” has, in the mean-
time, acquired a trifle of local interest from the
man who went to Melbourne Gaol to find
his memory, but “Sweet Lavender” was a
stronger thing even as a topical incident.
That rapid reconstruction of the Barn-
chester Bank attracted a good deal of
attention, and was most favourably received by
restorers of public confidence. Indeed, there is
some talk of giving one more performance of
“ Sweet Lavender ” anon by special request of the
Government. When the cherubic lawyer brings
news of a joyful meeting of creditors, whereat tire
busted bank had suddenly become stronger than
ever, the audience will be expected to stand up
and whoop. Also, the orchestra will play “ Wait
till the clouds roll by,” or any other hopeful tune
suitable to the occasion. On Saturday the Prin-
cess’s bill is likely to be “ Liberty Hall.”
-* * *
A small rush of rival attractions is about
to set in. At the Theatre Royal a comic-opera
company, including Clara Merivale, Katherine
Hardy, Woodfield, Knight Aston, Kelly, a large
chorus and a Rainbow Ballet, will start business
on Saturday. The opera is new to these parts—
“ The Queen’s Lace Handkerchief,” by Straus—
and the prices of admission are described as “up-
to-date.”
** * *
Fillis and his Circus fall due on the same
evening. The Circus this time is to occupy twice
as much canvas as before, and 5000 people can
squeeze into the palatial structure if they feel so
disposed. Most of the performers will be fresh to
Melbourne, some are said to have come direct
from Paris (after the most approved fashion of
circus riders), and even the now bears are of
Dresden manufacture.
** * *
Antoinette Sterling makes her two last
appearances at Melbourne Town Hall to-night
(Thursday) and Saturday. Domestic affliction has
kept this otherwise irrepressible lady away from
gaols, hospitals, and morality meetings of late,
and her voice should be all the better for the rest.
But Sterling is a mere matter of taste under any
circumstances. So much a matter of taste that no
two people objecting to her undoubted success
seem to agree as to the reason why they snort. As
a matter of fact, they are chiefly irritated by her
hymn-book. Even fervid admirers of Antoinette
cannot deny that her platform appearance is so
out of proportion with the book as to suggest the
idea of a whale toying with an oyster-shell.
** * *
Snazelle, who has been more or less in
Australia for several years, now intends to try
Africa for a change. On Friday (11th) there is to
he a last final farewell appearance of Snazelle at


TheWhiteHorseCetlar.
ummmruH
The Old Blend
WSusKy
Horse
Cellar
WHl'
OIRWT FROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PUR E. Mtl »
SCOTCH HAll
Melbourne Town Hall, and a large entertainment
will see the versatile performer off, as it were.
• * »
By the way-, Snazelle emerged triumphant
from the County Court last week. He was sued
for breach-of-contract, or violent dismissal, by the
harpist of his travelling concert company, a
musician who frequently expressed a desire to go
forth and “get something to eat” at rehearsal
time. On the last occasion of the harpist feeling
hungry Snazelle called him a selfish beast, and
solemnly cursed his appetite, and furthermore
applied physical suasion to assist him on his way
to vittles. But, seeing that Snazzy presently
desired the absentee to return and digest his great
masses of food with his wild harp slung before
him, which he declined to do, the Court held that
Snazzy’s portion of the engagement was never
broken, and gave him costs accordingly. This
shows the folly of hankering after the flesh-pots
during business hours.
A recent performance of “ David Garrick,*
at Melbourne Bijou, was interrupted for a moment
by a scornful spinster in the dress-circle. The
lady stood up and announced with exceptional
candour, that the author of her undoing was upon
the stage. She referred to Ballarat Cathedral as
the place where last they met, and was about
to go into more details when somebody clapped
his hand across her ex parte statement and took
her away to ruminate over the alleged wicked-
ness of man.
At Poverty Point.
The Greenwoods are to be benefited at Melbourne.
Good for evil.
Once more Madame Sterling: “It depends upon ray
audience how I sing. If they are cold and apathetic Ido
not trouble about them, but just go through my work
carefully and correctly ; but if they are enthusiastic, I go
into a perfect frenzy, become wildly excited, and seem to
be completely possessed by some wondrous power that
passes between us and holds them spellbound.” “ Per-
fectfrenzy” is good.
Rev. D. M. Berry, of a Melbourne suburban church,
inserts a “display” advt. in a local paper, informing the
public of the performance of a grand sacred cantata at
his church on the following Sunday evening. Choir
assisted by a long list of popular professionals. Collection
at the door, Snazelle’s church is coming.
A Melbourne amateur co. lately performed in aid of a
local church with considerable success—so much so that
the parson’s wife wrote asking for a repetition—hut with
the proviso that the word “devil ” be omitted from the
book next time.
Cecil Ward’s Lord Tweenwayes, in “The Amazons,” is
perhaps the finest prize-idiot yet seen in Australia. The
Comte de Grival and ray Lord Tweenwayes will set
Melbourne on the broad grin at Cup-time.
“ O is of the most magnificent, one of the most robust,
ol the Anglo-Saxon race.” Critique Francisque Sarcey
on Terriss—who comes to Australia.
“Niche” and “Walker, London,” have just ended
their competitive London runs, each nearer two years
than one.
The funds of the Australian Dramatic and Musical
Association were invested in the shares ot the Commercial
of Australia, Victoria, National, Colonial, and Federal
Banks and the Melbourne Theatre Royal. And now, so
far as the shareholders are concerned, there is hardly a
gleam ot promise among the lot of them. Peruvian bonds
would have been a brighter outlook.
Walter Bentley suffers from an overburdening sense of
modesty. On his way up to Rockhampton he, or a
minion of his, wired the town clerk: “Shall arrive in
Rockhampton Tuesday afternoon. Please arrange to have
mayor and corporation meet me at wharf.” But poor
Wattie had to be satisfied with the reception of a wharf-
porter who said, “Carry yer bag?” and some small boys
who blasphemously remarked, “ Get yer ’air cut.”
The four-legged female of the ballet is on her way to
Australia. We are used to the biped variety with two
imitation legs, and have prayed to be spared this horror.
There is a time coming evidently when the tailed-baby of
Fitzroy will make a boom sensation as a freak dancer.
The proverbial luck of Queensland’s Jonah again crops
out in the wreckage of Meston’s nigger-show, whose funds
he helped to find.
Charles Saunders, new tenor, is making a name for him-
self at Melbourne concerts. Saunders, who came from
England for the good of his health, appears to have an
engagement with Williamson and Musgrove, and may
perhaps he wanted for comic opera presently. He has a
very burly figure, and is altogether the opposite kind of
young man to Tapley. Looks more suitable for the comic
than the sentimental tenor line, but could travel through
any opera character on his voice alone.
Genevieve Ward was out of London Lyceum bill for a
week recently, owing to the death of her mother. Gene-
vieve’s mother could not have been a very young woman,
we fancy.
“Those not prepared to cfmiply with the above are
requested to look elsewhere tor a place to rest their weary
bones.”—Speed’s advt. re the collection expected at his
Sunday musical services, Melb. Gaiety.
Eleonora Duse is, they say, a hopeless consumptive.
She has had few chances in London, having appeared in
plays which, however popular abroad, dmi't appeal to
Englanders. The Lyric lessee, remarks The Bulletin
correspondent, must have dropped a pile ever Dus?.
London gossips say that a certain quondam “ Society
Beauty” steadily gazes upon the wine when it is red.
[lmmediate cause—chagrin at the nature of a certain will.
Queer people dabble in Melbourne theatrical specula-
dions of late, and one of the houses could tell tales about
■* lady of Scotch extraction, they say.
Somebody told us that Mary Provost, who used to draw
inch large Australian audiences in “Camille,” because
she was dying of consumption, was, 20 years afterwards,
acting old women in the States,
Little Penley has received a solemn practical lesson
upon the folly of extravagant living. Of late years,
Penley has been one of the best paid comedians in England,
hut seemingly he saved little, and when lie came to
produce “Charley’s Aunt” under his own management
the inevitable Jewish gentleman was required to finance
'the show. This power behind the throne—a Mr. Hart-
anont—takes ,£5OO a week out ot “Charley’s Aunt,” and
only the balance of the gold-mine goes to Penley 1
Furthermore, Penley was recently ordered bj' a jury to
pay £6OO to Miss Emily Brinsley Sheridan in considera-
tion of her having introduced him to the financier who
draws the £5OO a week ! Now, if Penley had started
management with a couple of thousand pounds of his
own he might have financed “ Charley’s Aunt ” himself,
»nd drawn the whole pool.
Fillis is building an iron circus in Melbourne.
Terry’s sorry he did not go to America. So are we.
“I decline to nopear in full tights, for I owe something
to my husband's position, and my family.” Thus a
London operatic actress interviewed. “So God Ttdge
me, ’tis a virtuous mind,” as says Shakespeare’s Parson
Evans.
“Attack on the lion-tamer at ten sharp.”
Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove’s latest “importa-
tion,” Mr. Joseph Tapley, is a decided acquisition to the
firm’s Comic Opera Co. It is not likely that the new
tenor will supplant Mr. Chas. Ryley in the affections of
the d.c. maiden, for the latter’s nether limbs will win (the
day always, hot Mr. Tapley’s abilities must earn for him
heaps of admirers. Mr. Tapley, besides being the owner
of a sweet voice, is an actor (with him there is no slouch-
ing through a part), and he can also dance. Of his quality
he has already given Sydney playgoers a taste in “The
Vicar of Bray,” in which he buries his identity in the
person of Henry Sandford, the curate who doesn't get
eaten hy the Cassowary niggers, after all. Mr. Tapley is
young and good-looking—this is why his portrait is
allowed to grace the pages of The Bulletin.
Johnny Geurlay was on the jury panel for last week’s
edition of the Mercantile Rank case. They called Johnny
without eliciting a response. He is in MaoriJand.
Reported that an Australian music-hall lessee took it
into his head, one recent night, to bolt with the “house,”
leaving his co. breathing vengeance.
Arthur Lawrence, for years a leading actor in Australia,
kas had had luck in London. A delayed telegram first
lost him an important engagement, and then a servant
Skipped with his wardrobe.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The severe remarks made by N.S.W, Chief
Justice Darley concerning the outrageous verdict in the
case of Hill and others v. Lyne, when a verdict of £60,000
(land-resumption compensation) was returned against the
Crown, will not have been made in vain should they lead
to an investigation by the Minister of Justice into the
means by which such verdicts are sometimes arrived at.
The award (like a lot of other Supreme Court awards)
simply stinks.
* * #
Pilcher, Q.C., astonished N.S.W. Full Court,
last week, by declaring that he knew of a land-valuer who,
for resumption purposes, had valued at £58,000 certain
properties which, for the purpose of probate, he had set
down at £8000!
• • *
A perusal of the Vic. banking returns for the
last quarter should prove instructive to those who have
the pleasure of paying the banks for the use of a portion
of their own deposits. For quarter ending 36th June,
the Colonial Bank held hut 9 per cent, of its liabilities in
cash, and the average of cash to liabilities held hy the
other reconstructing concerns was about 14 per cent.
That is, for every £ of the depositors’ money these insti-
tutions held, they had 2s. 9d. to pay it with. The Aus-
tralasia and the Union held 23 and 28 per cent, respec-
tively of their liabilities in cash, but the proportion of
the B.N.S. VV. has fallen from 32 to 20 per cent, in three
months. The 8.N.Z., however, holds in Victoria about
275. cash for every sovereign it owes. During the quarter
the Australasia and the Union increased their cash
reserves by £150,000 and £240,000 respectively, while
those of the N.S.W. decreased by £480,000.
* * «
Daily paper item “Mr. J. R. Priestly, man-
ager of the Federal Bank of Australia, considers that the
suggestion of Mr. O. C. Stewart, the official receiver in
London, for an inquiry into the Australian management,
is an attempt to frustrate the scheme of reconstruction.”
Why, certainly. Any attempt at holding art inquiry into
the management of any gone-broke hank is an attempt to
frustrate the reconstruction. The more a bank is inquired
into the less chance there is of reconstructing. Every-
body knows this, but the banker who acknowledges that
he knows it is altogether too simple-minded for his billet.
# # #
The Insolvency Act is now dead, buried and
forgotten in Melbourne, except in respect of labourers and
the like. The big financier makes “ a private composition
by arrangement.” Liabilities must not be less than
£lO,OOO, nor the dividends more than 6d. in the £.
# # *
In Melbourne, the small trader “assigns his
estate” to a licensed assignee brigand, who collects all
the assets and sticks to them, or else assigns to a friend,
who sells the estate to the debtor’s wife or child at 75
per cent, off its value.
• • •
The big merchant or storekeeper gets an “ex-
tension of time,” i.e., takes another 12 months or five
years to meet his current obligations, and then gels
another “ extension.”
• # *
The “gentleman speculator” does not consult
his creditors at all—he simply settles everything on the
wife, or loses all his cash one day at Flemington, and then
tells his creditors “ to do their damdest."
# # «
The scoundrel of a working man or clerk is sold
up, rump and stump, by the Jew money-lender undera bill
of sale, after paving the bloodsucker back the capital, and,
perhaps, 20 to 30 per cent, interest out of 300 per cent,
due on the original loan.
• • «
The deceased Mercantile Finance, Trustees, and
Agency Co. (Melb.) promises to wind up for a total loss
of over £2,0,00,000. Its reserve fund of £650,000 —mostly
accumulated hy selling new shares at large premiums in
the days of its greatness—is gone. So is its paid-up
capital of £760,000, and the.unpaid capital of £740,000
will all be required, so far as can he estimated, to liqui-
date, or partly liquidate, the remaining deficiency. Yet
the Mercantile Finance Co., so far as the public can ascer-
tain, was really conducted on a reasonably honest basis—
that is to say, it. was a gambling concern, but it hadn’t
any more cards in its boots than the rules of business
integrity allowed. It seems to have been pulled down
principally through the moral rottenness of the “repre-
sentative citizens ”of Melbourne. It had a large clientele.
and there was hardly an honest man among the lot of
them. The only safe way to conduct a finance co. in
Melbourne now is to do business only with Chinamen.
« * m
Forty country branches of one Sydney bank to
be closed ; and all officials’ salaries retrenched. Having
fleeced the depositors. Fat Man now turns on his miser-
able aiders and abettors—the bank clerks. This is as it
should be. When will these high - collared political
eunuchs learn on which side their bread is buttered ?
* « #
The Bank of New South Wales proposes to
increase its paid-up capital by £750,000, making £2,000,000
in all. The new issue will consist of 37,500 shares of £2O
each, sold at a premium of £5, and as the present shares
are selling at £ll premium, they will doubtless he taken
up.
# # *
The Bank of Victoria is about to close many of
its country branches, and State-Treasurer Carter has
thrown out a strong hint that “some” of the banks
ought to amalgamate. The Bulletin was under the
impression that they were, one and all, much “ stronger
than ever” and bulging out with new business. Now it
would he best for them to pair off for mutual support. The
prospect of an amalgamation of two reconstructing banks
is somewhat disquieting. If there is to be one hank in
place of two, half of each hank must disappear, as it were.
Perhaps the fixed depositors at a long date will eventually
discover that their coin was confiscated hy the portions
of the hanks which vanished.
* # #
One Australian bank is reported to have mort-
gaged its central office premises for £50,C00, as a means
of staving off the wrath which is to come.
# # #
Reconstruction or no reconstruction, the Lon-
donderry shareholders in the Q.N. Bank demand an
investigation. And the hardheaded Glasgow men are
with them there.
* * #•
A leading Sydney firm sold a local property at
auction recently for £lOOO. A few days afterwards the
purchaser, wishing to borrow, got the same firm to value
the property, which they did; valuation, £7OO. As capi-
talists now lend only half valuation, this enabled the
buyer to borrow £350 on a property of £lOOO market
value.
# # #
Melb. Tramway Co. has succeeded in paying a
dividend of 2) per cent., making a total of 5 per cent, for
the year. This absorbs £24,000, and as the net profits
were only £22,618, the co. is left about £l4OO worse off
than it was 12 months ago. A great and awful falling off,
but still it is not so bad as was anticipated, and the call,
which is to make tramway stocks a minus quantity and a
thing to be given away to an enemy, is apparently post-
poned.
* * *
Melb. conundrum —What price Justice?
# * *
The Bulletin’s prophecy of several months ago
that the Broken Hill mine-owners would take the first
opportunity of withdrawing the two hours a week con-
cession to underground hands, made after the 1890 strike,
has been verified. The wage-reduction manifesto just
issued provides that 48 instead of 46 hours per week shall
he worked in future.
# * #
The Broken Hill mine directors, simultaneously
with the return of the released labour leaders, announced
a general reduction in wages of 10 per cent. The two
events have probably no connection, but the coincidence
is worth noting. Once the intended change would have
been notified to the workmen through their unions, and
would have been the subject of parleying weeks before-
hand ; in this instance the directors simply placarded the
new schedule of wages on the mines and the thing was
done. Tite disrupted union was powerless to protest, and
probably a 50 per cent, reduction would have been
accepted just as quietly had the silver magnates chosen
to enforce it.
The Broken Hill 10 per cent, mine-wage reduc-
tions are announced to apply to directors, managers and
workmen alike. Will the Proprietary, for instance, knock
£4OO per annum off Manager Howell’s screw at one fell
swoop ?
# # #
Proprietary Chairman Bowes Kelly, at the half-
yearly shareholders’ meeting in Melbourne, announced
the average cost of silver production for the half-year at
2s. 2d. per oz., and of lead at £7 6s. per ton. The mine
produced during the half-year 5,972,194" z. of silver, and
21,735 t tns of lead. The former, at 2s. 2d. per oz., would
cost £646,987 13s. Bd. to produce, and the lat er, at £7 6s.
per ton, £158,665 10s. ; total, £805,653 3s. Bd. Yet the total
expenses for the half-year, including £28,566 12s. Id. for
depreciation, are only £677,862 19s. 6d. according to the
figures of the report, the adoption of which was moved hy
Mr. Bowis Kelly himself! That is to say, it cost £127,790
4s. 2d. more to produce the co.’s metal in six months than
the total expenses of the mine for that period ! Whose is
the error?
* #
The Bulletin bears that the extravagantly-
landed Barrier Mines Sick and Accident Fund is now, after
little more than six months’ existence, insolvent. The
society, which is governed by a board composed of
nominees of the mine-owners and men in equal propor-
tions, has since the collapse of the strike taken the place
of the benefit society incorporated in the miners’ own
union, and when formed, it was intimated, would lean on
the strong arm of the, directors for financial support —if
necessary. Membership is not compulsory, hut any work-
man refusing to join is dismissed. The men have never
taken kindly to the society for several very substantial
reasons.
« « *
More of the blessings and advantages of
“private enterprise.” Chicago is lighted hy electricity
supplied by the city corporation at 9d. per night for
each light of 2000 candle-power. New York is lighted
by a private co. at Is. per night for each light of
exactly the same power. The American towns of Bath
and Bar Harbour (Maine) are illuminated by private co.’s
at 150 dollars per annum, and Portland arid Augusta at
125 dollars per annum for each 2000 candle light. VVater-
ville, in the same State, provides the same light from the
municipal works at 57 dollars per annum.
# « .#
The 15-head Mitchell Creek (N.S.W.) Freehold
gold-estate battery won, last year, 6668 ozs.—crushed
5546 tons for 3054 ozs. free gold, and 1462 ozs. from con-
centrates treated in Sydney; average, 16 dwts. It is
owned by Messrs. Dick, Findlay, Davies, and Daiveen,
who have won about £45,828 in gold since purchasing it
three years ago. To make a substantial dividend-paying
concern of it several things are wanting: a bigger battery,
a bigger output, and local treatment of concentrates.
# # •
There is a cyclone gathering re the Wentworth
Proprietary, Lucknow. Several of the promoters have
followed one another home in quick succession ; they
stood not on the order of going, but went. First, Mr.
Carrie Swain, then Exchange Hotel Aarons, on a second
trip, and then consulting-engineer Collins. Among
them, apparently, the inflated share-boom has been
pricked and hurst. Two months ago, the shares were at
considerably over par (capital, £500,000). Cables last
week state that they have fallen to a few shillings.
* • •
Bayley’s No. 1 South Reward Co., £525,000
cash to owners and £5OOO to work mine, has been success-
fully floated in Melb. It has been taken as a pure gamble,
so that if they make nothing out of the mine, some
persons will have made £25,000 out of them. Already it
is known that £40,000 has been made by one iimhi out of
Bayley’s and surrounding blocks. Poor, Credulous
humanity loveth the sensational gold-mine.
# • *
Anyone speculating in the Gympie (Q.) share-
market should back the “One Norths." The best proper-
ties in tile field are, and have been, “One North”
somethings since ever the field was a field.
# # *
The Mills United machinery at Charters
Towers lias topped the Australian record in haulage.
2000 tons of stone raised from a vertical depth of 1200 to
1500 feet in a fortnight—a great performance.
# * #
Beach gold-mining in N.S.W. is the most hap-
hazard of all ventures. At uncertain times, and in un-
certain places, after very heavy gales, a little fine gold is
got from the sand thrown up on some of the northern
beaches. To win it requires skilled labour and machinery.
To send away bodies of distressed men who have nothing
but tin dishes and no experience is absolutely disgraceful.
* * #
A Sunday paper whiclt consistently boonmm’ery
man’s mine makes a few encouraging remarks a ham an
alleged platinum discovery on the Richmond River.
“ These that the ore contains platinum to the
extent of 840z5,, 78ozs. and 500z5., and so on downwards,
to the ton, besides that rare and ; expensiye metal, iridium,
going 3ozs., 6ozs. arid 15ozs. to the ton. The stone also
contains gold and silver to a considerable extent. Plati-
num and iridium are both of much greater value than
gold ; nevertheless. The Bulletin regrets that the stone
doesn’t contain first-water diamonds, emeralds and
sapphires. It would also he an advantage if it had a
hanging-wall of good gas-making coal and a foot-wall of
kerosene-shale. \Ve like to see the whole hog in a mine.
* •# #
After months of weary waiting, another s'o-ton
crushing has taken place at the Sir Walter Scott mine,
N.S.W. Result, 730 z., and again the public are told that
the success of the Lockwood-Chapple process is fully
demonstrated.
« # #
“ A prospect washed yesterday from a quartor-
-Ib. ston-, taken from a heap, yielded such results that if
the whol; body were of that quality, it would produce
lOOoz. to the ton.” Thus the S.M.H.’s Carcoar corres-
pondent concerning Dighy’s Hill. More than half the
N.S.W. mining pars, have a big “if” in them. In
Bendigo and Ballarat and the Towers, yarns like these
are always kept for the funny part of the paper.
# * #
A discontented shareholder writes : “It is. well
known that there is 6 to 8 oz. stone in the bottom of the
Pambnla Co.’s shaft.” Never since gold was discovered
in Australia has stone of this quality been allowed to
remain in any shaft.
# • #
The attempts to jump the Homeward Bound
mine at Yalwal, N.S AY., for non-payment of rent will
probably fail in equity. The Melb. owners have spent
thousands in the erection of a 40-head battery and other
machinery, and every lease provides for the seizure and
sale by the Crown for rent.
* * *
A mine at Mudgee has changed its name to the
“Sirß. W. Duff.” The comparative of Duff is Duffer—
which would be the deserved reward of snobbery.
# * •
By pinch of poverty and hard work a lot of gold
will probably be found this year or next in the Orange
(N.S.W.) district. The proposal to form a prospecting
association, with a liability of 2s. to 3s. a week for each
shareholder, boomed off in a day. The idea is a good
one and worth the consideration of other auriferous
districts.
# * #
The appearance of certain individuals in nearly
every important N.S.W. jumping-case is causing com-
ment. They can be seen at the Mines Office far more
frequently than tne Minister, and often big fees and slices
of interest are given for their mysterious influence.
* • •
Why will not Sydney Mint give the current
price for silver contained in gold left there for sale?
Usually the practice has been to give 6d. an oz. less, i.e.,
when silver was 45., 3s. 6d. was given at the mint, but
now silver has fallen to 2s. 9d. it is announced that 2s. an
oz. only will he paid.
# * #
Forty lbs. quartz brought into Orange, N.S.W.,
a few days ago returned 40 ozs. gold, one 15 oz. piece of
stone producing 10 oz. of gold. The owners are said to
have 40 acres of ground, and are down 84 feet. A more
interesting point would he to know what gold they have
left.
« m *
The Princess Dagmar (Bendigo) mine has dis-
appointed those who stated it was worked out, by
declaring a 2s. 6d. dividend instead ot its usual Is. fort-
nightly one.
The tribute parties who ileal with the Co. have
done well on Meehan field. At the Donah X. Junction
mine, a share in- the tribute lias returned a cool few
hundreds to the lucky holder and worker.
# # #
The Zechan National Anthem ; “ When will the
Comet strike the lode ?”
* * *
The trouble at Zeehau is said to be that there
are two bosses to every miner.
• # #
The Victory (Charters Towers) dividends have
begun to slacken off again. Five-oz. stuff can’t last for
ever.
tt # *
The policy of the Sunlight management in run-
ning only five of their 40-heads with the hope of bringing
the owners Of the freehold to their senses has not worked
well ; the owners seem to have waited and smiled.
# * #
During the bank scare, £31,775,G00 in gold was
shipped from I oitdon to Australia. Much of this is now
being returned.
J # * #
Shares in the Port Jackson s.s. Co. aren't worth
a lot just now. They’ll be worth a lot less still unless
the co. comes to a fair arrangement .with the Manly Muni-
cipal Council, which owns the central local wharf and will
not re-let it wit tout satisfactory assurances from the 00.
The P.J.S.S. Co. apparently has before it a fate sinvlar to
that of the pig-headedly conducted old Balmain Ferry
Co.
(“Wild fatcontinued on page 19.)
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word Com-
petition, No. 5.
The Bulletin’s missing word competition, No. 5,
closed with 2208 competitors, representing a cash
total of ,£llO Bs. Qf these, 21 guessed the correct
word, “ Teetotal,” and the funds, when divided
among them, give a dividend of £5 ss. 2d. The
principal rush was on the word “sober,” but a
very large number of competitors pinned their
faith on “naked ”or “ bald.” One special genius
sent in no word at all—only his blank coupon and
a shilling. The rest used up among them almost
every adjective in the dictionary, and various
other parts of speech besides. The following are
the names and addresses of the prize-winners
J. Hobson, Caboolture, Queensland.
Isaac Hutchins, Hartley Vale, N.S.W.
E. P. Payment, Cowl-Cowl, Hillston, N.S.W.
Clarence Newman, Ingle Vale.
I). Mathison, Nelligen, N.S.W.
Boyce Mackenzie, “ Alelhiess,” Stony Crossing, via Bat
ranald, N.S.W.
W. Moore, Tallang.atta, Vic.
Emily W. Nolan, “Moon Moon,” Booligal, N.S.W.
Lewis Deer, Toronto.
J. E. Morris, Lands Department, Sydney, N.S.W.
J. VV. Horan, Railway Station, Sydney.
Fred. Mackins, Gundagai, N.S.W.
W. Gunn, Geelong, Vic.
A. Hayes, Lower McLaren-st., North Shore, Sydney.
K. Walsh, Balmain P. 0., Sydney.
William J. Corbett, Porcupine Gap, via Molong.
F. S. McPhail, Junee Junction, N.S., W.
Cis. Mackins, Gundagai, N.S. W.,
G. W. Steinbeck, Wickham, via Newcastle, N.S.W.
H. J. Pend, Crookwell, N.S.W.
Jas. Hartt, Beechworth, Vie.
Missing Word Competition No. G will be
announced next issue.
As was expected, the long-pending Samoan
fight between Malietoa and Mataafa began and
ended quickly. The old warrioi’ who three times
beat back the disciplined troops of Germany, has
yielded to Malietoa. Had it not been for the
intervention of the foreign men-of-war at Apia
there would have been another tale to tell. The
white merchants to a man sided with the smug-
faced Malietoa—for the reason that he is Malie-
toa, Limited, and they all have mortgages on him
for goods supplied. In the restoration of his
authority they see a chance of being paid some of
their dollars.
When Dibbs and Co. acceded to office in
N.S.W. it was by force of a Democratic upheaval.
This much must be admitted by all—even by those
who abhor Protection. Dibbs and several of
his colleagues loudly talked equal suffrage and
Republicanism ; whereas Parkes and Co. had con-
trived to pose as comparative conservatives. Now
that Dibbs has become a knight and selected as
his battle-cry the practical reinstitution of a pro-
perty-qualification for Parliamentary voters,
those practised squirmers, the leaders of the
“great Freetrade party,” recognise that their
chance has come if they were Only in a position to
take full advantage of it, and they are kicking
themselves in chagrin at being bound by their past
utterances to oppose payment of members. If you
notice G. 11. Reid gesticulating in the House
you will observe that he often makes violent-look
ing lunges at the table, but he never brings his
fist down—the severity of his impact on the
mahogany does not exceed that which ho
would have inflicted upon a pretty girl whose chin
he was chuckingin his bachelor days. That’s how
he’s going to treat payment of members. He will
as in duty (.and in Hansard) bound oppose it, but
he won’t hit it very hard. And Parkes 1 The old
fox, as in Hansard bound, doesn’t like payment
of members—but now he “ will leave it to a ple-
biscite he will let the people pronounce upon it!
Will somebody kindly remind The Bulletin of the
exact occasion when, a plebiscite having been pro-
posed, Parkes barked at it as “ unconstitootional?”
B. R. Wise is on comparatively solid ground he
believes in payment (,£l5O for town and .£250 for
country members), but “ would allow no member
to make money out of the position.” Wise has a
Tory heart and a Democratic brain. If he would,
as it were, sell all his goods and give to the poor,
what a chance he would have in N.S.W. politics
now that the Protectionist leaders have shown
themselves cold-blooded traitors to the cause of
Democratic Government ! Parkes and Reid are,
politically speaking, pretty near the tomb. Let
Wise take to heart the lesson of their years of
ignoble shuffling.
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as' follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to be signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.


O’VVVVV'W'N S
Gro to HJbiLla-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
Uialis.
D. A. VINDJN Sc CO,
74 ELIZABETH ST BEET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
’Till
lihiiitii
9%
v*
ini
o
Tiitllllllliik
* 9 \f
v.
's(>ino
'l||.f
07
11“'"
||IH|ll" l lli
m
iiin'i
ky
Ulli'liiiillli
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
g e utsch-Jlnstra I kch c |J ost
Ersnheint jeden Sonnabcnd in Sydney. I’rcis &<J
Zu liaben bei alien Zeitungs-Agonten.
Ahonncment 10 sli. juhrlbh direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing Office, 20 Hunter Sir., Sydney.
Personal Items.
Louise of Fife prays that the Duchess of
York may prove another Princess Louise.
Every fiftieth man one meets in Collina-
street, Melbourne, is an unconvictod criminal.
James Horton, the oldest Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) native, died last week, aged 91 years.
Justice Bundey (S.A.) says he was making
=£4500 a year when he accepted a Judgeship of
.£l7OO.
In what sense does Frank Farnell, M.L. A.
(N.S.W.), think Parkes an older man than G. H.
Reid ?
“I will not have my wife exposed to the
lecherous leers of a crapulous court. — ADCOCK to
S.A. Bench.
Herod Makin will bo the first Australian
executed for a capital offence after an appeal to.
the Privy Council.
The link between Premier Kingston (S.A.)
and Education Minister Cockburn is their brother-
in-law, Giles, M.P.
Crown-Solicitor Stuart boasts that he has
the biggest beard in S.A., and that his blether
heads the same list in Victoria.
A few years since, a Melb. medico gave a
powerful public lecture upon total abstinence.
The water he drank from the decanter on the hall
table was chiefly gin.
Millionah’e Tyson, M.L.C., seldom goes
near the (Q ) Legislative Council. Whenever he
does he says nothing but thinks hard enough to be
heard a mile away.
Lowe Sherbrooke ; “In Australia I was
walking over gold without knowing it, thanks to
having learnt Greek and Latin instead of
chemistry and geology.”
Pastor Webb, of Geelong, Vic., always
announces that “ the Lord’s collection will now be
taken up.” The good pastor would absolutely
scorn to take any of it himself.
An Adelaide reporter lately Avrote of a
S.A. Labour-member that “he spoke with the
fervour of a genuine reformer.” The genial
printer made it “general informer.”
Henry Parkes recently said at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) that he did not expect to live beyond the
age of a little child. At Bathurst, a year ago, he
said he meant to live till he was 130.
The manager of the Commercial Bank of
Australia is not so much Henry Gyles Turner as
he used to be. Melbourne papers speak quite
flippantly of him as Mr, H. G. Turner.
Dr. Frances Dick, Avho leaves Sydney to
investigate hypnotism on the Continent of Europe,
is the first Australian lady who has been made a
member of the British Medical Association.
The Victorian Premier is dreadfully touchy
iu the matter of caricatures. When an artist
depicts with effect Patterson’s hard, ugly under-
jaw, J.B.P. actually jumps on the paper on the
floor of his office.
An ancient Bathui’st, N.S.W., identity
has just died—the widow of the late Domingo
Popilario, aged 83. She took up her residence in
Bathurst as a girl in her teens, and resided in the
district for 65 years.
Pastor Soltau, of Tasmania, who once
publicly rejoiced that an earthquake or something
had been sent in answer to his prayers to chasten
the wicked of Hobart, is going to India, to preach
to the nigs.
Antoinette Sterling says that her dead
husband appeared to her while she was in Maori-
land and “embraced her tenderly.” When her
season terminated in Adelaide last month, she
folded her arms round Tommy Hudson, Lohr,
Howells, and Stephens, who had all helped to
“ boom ” her, while the musical critic of the
Advertiser only escaped by stratagem.
Henniker Heatons
great rival in (missing
word), at London Carlton
Club, is one Mr. Harry S.
Foster (not unknown in Aus-
tralia) a pushing fellow of
Henniker’a own brand, only
more so, as he is a good
speaker. Foster made a lot
of cash a year or two ago out
of the confiding public as
a company-promoter, and
scooped in a fortune by
“cornering” Warner’s Safe
Cure shares. He is now
member for one of the divi-
sions of Suffolk, is a bold Con-
servative, and as “cheeky”
as the devil himself, f
The forceful, but re-
fined and womanly Miss
Shaw, the London Times
penlady, had some queer ex-
periences in Australia. One
viight she went down alone
to a W.Q. shearer’s camp to
discuss the social problem
with the genius of the shed.
The lady invited him inU
the hut with that intention,
but the superapprehensive
social reformer declined.
“No,” said he, “ you don’t
get me in there without a
witness, Miss.”
The father of Treasurer
Playford (S.A.) was a giai t
like himself. He fought ft
Waterloo, and afterward s
ran a little Methodist chapil
in Adelaide.
Madame Blavatsky’s body was cremated
and her ashes divided into three parts, one part
each being given to the theosophical societies in
India, in Europe and in America. Poor Aus-
tralia ! Give us a pincii, please.
Ex-attorney D’Arcy, erst of Queensland,
now of London, at present draws .£36,000 a year
from Mt. Morgan. The rest of his income comrs
from ’Ome investments. “The family ” says he
intends to revive an old title which belonged to
them some centuries ago, and which connects
them with Byron’s half-sister, Augusta.
Said a high S.A. civil servant the other
day, in the eloquence of a great wrath, to an
offending subordinate:—“How the great God
Almighty in His infinite mercy could have
•created such a idiot as you, passes my com-
prehension !”
O’Shanassy, when Victorian Premier, in-
troduced the first woman into the civil service of
that province—Mrs. Tierney, whom he appointed
Registrar of Births, Marriages and Deaths, in
succession to her husband—whose death was the
first she registered.
The Anglo-American Ashmead-Bartletts,
especially ho who sold his manhood to the withered
Baroness Coutts, were foremost in shrieking
“Traitors !” eto., during the House of Commons
row. The integrity of the Empire is under the
special protection of such people.
Sir Arthur Nicolson, baronet, well-known
in Melbourne as a bazaar-promoter, &c„ figures
in the cablegrams as secretary of the British
embassy at Constantinople. Ere succeeding to
his title and cash, then far off, he led a varied
existence as mounted trooper, Crown-lands
bailiff, and Theatre Royal official.
The Mundic Miner (Georgetown, Q.) on
its contemptible contemporary :
Thus the maggot-brained parasite slanders a better
man than he, the vile, vulgar, foul-scribbling cur, ever
knew how to be ; “ An ounce of hard fact is worth tons of
claptrap retailed at so much per yard, by the brainless
agitator and his literary crawling servitor, &c.” The
noxious exhalations which exude from this putrefying
scurvy our, are worthy of such a hand-dog, swinish,
wriggling groveller. When John Hoolan is about, this
pachydermatous, slimy, Uriah Keep, is always so
“ ’umble” and wormlike, and dare not pen a line against
him, yea the very name of John Hoolan makes this
craven sycophant blanch with dread and terror and
hide his tainted clownish carcase in his own
slinking patent. This literary jackall, like a
stinking vulture, not only scents carrion afar,
but gluttonously gorges on the garbage of other
men’s reputations, and wallows in the filthy imagery
of his degraded and debased mind. Pythagoras held that
the souls of animals entered the forms of men. If this is
so, the currish spirit of this filth agent, must have in-
habited the carcase of a skunk, for the moral stench of
this egotistical worm poisons and contaminates all it
comes in contact with. The Mundic would not touch
this festering scum with tongs, but it must, and will
defend itself and all those whose public duties cause them
to be considered fair game by such yelping reptiles, and
if they continue these lying and slanderous articles, it
will be our duty to ladle them out another dose.
Poor old Ned Tricketfc, the fallen aquatic
idol of N.S. Wales, is now a revivalist and street-
preacher, and delivers addresses at the Y.M.O.A.
Years—or is it centuries?—ago, Ned’s admirers
pub him into a little pub. in Sydney, where he did
a decent business in a small way. Then they
shoved him into a larger pub,, a huge white-
elephant of a place, where he simply worked for
the landlord. He was a long, sad, silent man
with a silent little wife and a silent barmaid.
When his worshippers came in to see him from
the ends of the earth—he was worshipped in those
days : up North every kangaroo pup (and every
freshly-caught young nigger whose parents
had been shot down in the ranges by the
native police) was christened “ Trickett ’’--lie
looked at them with a far-off expression and never
said anything, but went on polishing his glass in
a voiceless calm. When they asked him for
something to drink he gave it to them in the
same profoundly speechless fashion, and when they
asked him to “ have something” he would say, in a
slow whisper, that he didn’t mind, and silently take
a teaspoonful of sarsaparilla in a wineglass. Then if
they wanted to shake hands with him, he would
silently give a huge, cold, unresponsive, fish-like
paw, and they would go away never to return.
Ned was never hilarious enough for the liquor
business, and as the natural result lie one morning
silently took up his carpet-bag and left, being then
about stone-broke. He took another pub. in
Rockhampton (Q.) and ran it on the same stealthy
and noiseless principles. While at the city of
glare and sorrow he received something that he
now calls a “ warning,” and he tried, in
consequence, to become a more serious
character even than before, which was
THE LAND OF RUNS:
CRICKETING,
BANKING,
SQUATTING.
obviously impossible. Otherwise there was no
chan f« 111 hl . m - H « was always behind the bar
Pushing a glass and looking out into space, and
the Rockhampton pub. presently went the same
t Sydney one had done. After that he
drifted back penniless to N.S.W. once more
making only one remark on the way, and among
the scenes of his old greatness he fell into oblivion.
He was always alone though in a crowd, and the
loud-mouthed, hard-drinking, hard-eating and
profusely-spitting sports were his abhorrence.
Now he has “ found grace,” which, being a quiet
sort of thing, is probably the very best thing he
could have found. Ned will probably go to
Heaven.
New feature in Melbourne street amuse-
ments. Two boys hold a rope for others to jump
over, while a man goes round taking up a col-
lection.
King Otho, of Bavaria, whom the cable
last week stated was “in a critical condition,” is
a prisoner at Ftistenried. He has never realised
the death of his brother nor his own accession to
the throne.
May 27 is the anni-
versary of the birth of
both Henry Parkes and
Charles Lilley.
Matthew Davies has
put on a lot of flesh since
his return from Colombo.
A very little explanation
was needed to convince
him that he was perfectly
safe, and he began to feel
jolly before he had been
back 24 hours.
Alfred Allen, the
poet-legislator of Pad-
dington, N.S.W., has
written out and com-
mitted to memory an
oration, on his old bill
dealing with short weight
in wood and coal, which
he intends to discharge
at next Parliament, and
which he believes will
take rank as one of the
literary masterpieces of
the decade.
An observant N.S.
Wales philosopher risks
his reputation by stating
that 80 per cent, of
Parkes’ Ministerial col-
leagues have had inor-
dinately large ears.
Parkes himself professes
to be guided in his choice
of associates very much
by the appearance of ex-
ternal organs. He cer-
tainly always did drive
teams of donkeys.
A reporter, lately
arrived in Sydney from
Victoria, was sent last
week to interview a
Minister. Having read
some locally - published
interviews he made up
his “copy ” in regulation
style. But the sub-
editor discredited the
entire effort : the new-
chum had made it ap-
pear that Minister Kidd,
the teetotal patriarch,
had offered him a glass of
whisky.
A quarter of a century ago, in Melbourne,
three inseparable companions were Marcus Clarke,
Dr. Aubrey Bowen, the clever oculist, and I. W.
Haddon. The present writer has now before him
a photo, of the trio, taken in 1868, when they were
all young men. Clarke has been dead_ ten years,
Bowen died last week, and Haddon is about to
retire from the editorship of Melbourne Argus.
There are four N.S. Wales Supreme Court
Judges drawing pensions—totalling .£7900 annu-
ally. Ex-Chief Justice Stephen has, in 20 years,
drawn .£36,400 pension ; ex-Judge Manning has,
in six years, pocketed .£15,720; ex-Judge lawcett,
5i years, £10,100; ex-Judge Deffell, four years,
<£7280. Total to date, .£69,500 !
Sarah Bernhardt, it is alleged, has taken
to sleeping in her dining-room. Says a writer in
the European Mail :
A brass bedstead was standing in a prominent position,
with pillow and all complete. Across the room was
stretched a sort of clothes-line, on which some things
were hanging, and on the other side of the clothes-line
the great actress was, with dignified serenity, entertaining
a party of friends at tea. The calm way in which she
ignored the bedstead was really great, and as I bowed in
answer to her salutation, and glanced from her to the
clothes-line, I felt that I stood at last in very truth in the
presence of absolute genius.
“The English worship the costly, and
term it the beautiful.” — Mill.
/ Melbourne, always prone to “ blow ” about
something, is now being lured on to speak arro-
gantly of its fogs. The city has the largest col-
lection of uninhabited tall buildings, the “ most
perfect tramway system ” under heaven, the finest
assortment of unconvicted criminals in silk hats,
and many other boom relics of which it is egre-
giously vain, but hitherto the people have not
taken special credit for local works of nature.
The patriotic Age sounds the gong for this new
departure: “London itself could not have pro-
duced a much more impenetrable fog than that
which descended on Melbourne on Saturday after-
noon.” A fog, they call it! A fog in which
football-matches are played to a finish, and
horse-races are run without being very invisi-
ble from the grand stand! A London fog
is a horrible brown delusion, whereby the way-
farer is conducted round ten turnings into the
slimy Thames, whilst he feels convinced that he
is walking in|a straight line five miles distant.
Burglars dare not venture abroad in a real London
fog, lest they walk into a police-station, and start
to open an inspector instead of an iron safe. And
after a whole week of fog—-not a mere paltry
Saturday afternoon of it—London doesn’t seem the
least bit proud. The Times generally Japologises
for the horrible mistake, and hopes the same fog
will not occur again.
One of the numerous papers run by Pro-
prietor Evans, of Sydney, has been at its old game
of reprinting without acknowledgement Bulletin
verses by “The Banjo.” This time it is “The
Lost Drink ” —which we have lately seen annexed
without acknowledgement by various English
thief-papers.
Hansard (Q.) is to he reduced in cost
from <£3ooo yearly to <£ 1500. The compositors
engaged on it have not this session averaged 10s.
per week.
Speaking of the Duchess of Sutherland,
recently released from gaol, a London paper
remarks : —“Her Grace, who wore a dreamy look
in her eyes and a magnificent string of pearls, had
during the past terrible six weeks lost two stone
in weight, and apparently all power of telling the
truth.”
THE ANCIENT HANGMAN.
The Corowa Conference declared with enthusiasm for Federation
under the Crown, and rejected with emphasis the proposal for an
Australian Federation on the basis of One-man-one-vote.
One cannot help noticing a relaxation in
the strings of “morality ”by whichsomeof the Eng-
lish periodicals have been held. The illustrated*
are thus extending their tent-pegs, and London
Punch “ tries it on ” a little, under the tentative
Burnand. Plays like Mrs. Tanqueray lead one to
say, “ Oh, flesh, how art thou fishified ! ”
A correspondent :
A dairyman, whose appearance was unknown to the
auctioneer, called in one day at the auction-room and bid
for his own butter—two kegs. They fetched at the rate
of Is. Bd. per lb. He took them away and sold the con-
tents privately to a customer at Is. (id., returned (lie tubs
to the auctioneer, and went home. The tubi and
account-sales arrived duly. The latter read thus:—To
llllbs. butter at Is. 2d., £(i 9s. (id.; charges, commission*,
&c., &c. That auctioneer tried all he knew to brazen it
out, but “parted” the difference and a three-figme
cheque besides. “ In what town was it?” you say. Pretty
nearly any town will do.
A shipwreck is a frightful experience. To
hear the wind whistle, the timber creak and crash,
the cordage strain, the seamen swear, and the
women scream, tremble, and run hither and
thither like maniacs is enough to appal the bravest
heart. Yet with all its terrors death by ship-
wreck is not half so terrible as the slow and in-
sidious course of disease which for the latter years
of the stricken one’s life makes existence a misery,
not only to the victim but to all around him.
With such terrible facts staring us in the face,
how careful we should be to preserve that blessing
of Providence, health and strength. Note should
be taken of the first signs of disease. A simple
headache is an infallible sign that the liver and
stomach are disordered ; frequent toothache and
neuralgia indicate infallibly that the nervous
system is becoming enervated ; that tired feeling
is proof positive that strength is failing. There
are hundreds of such symptoms which should have
immediate treatment. Clements Tonic fortifies
the blood, and builds up nerve tissue; it is the
greatest regulator of the system ever introduced,
and thousands of grateful sufferers testify to this
fact. For instance, Mr. Andrew S. G. Garden,
Public School, Berry, N.S.W., who writes on
April 10th, 1893 : —During the latter half of last
year my life caused me trouble ; instead of feeling
refreshed after sleep, I rose much against my will
with a heavy inert sensation, weariness seemed to
be all that I obtained from sleep. Besides this, I
had a thick and unpleasant taste in my mouth,
and breakfast was not partaken of in a hearty
manner. During the forenoon a disinclination to
work seized me, I wanted to sit about and even lie
down, feeling a helplessness in my legs and body
generally; after dinner these feelings grew move
intense, and a strong disposition to sleep con-
stantly came over me; if I wished to study at
night an unconquerable sleepiness prevented me,
altogether my life was becoming burdensome. I
led an active life and indulged in plenty of out-
door exercise, but all to no purpose. Finally
Clements Tonic was resorted to, and as a result
all the undesirable feelings mentioned have
vanished, and there is a vigor in all I do which
was (for a time at least) lost. I do not know how
much of Clements Tonic was consumed, certainly
not more than six bottles, but the fact remains
that whereas before taking I bad the symptoms
described ; after, all these left me.—Andrew S. G.
Garden, Public School, Berry, N.S.W.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
C69——
“Messrs, CHARLEMONT study to keep them-
selves abreast with the various new and beauti-
ful prooesses in photography.”
Many forget that fhe hair and scalp need cleans
ing. Extensive use of Ayer’s Hair Vigor has
proven that it is the best cleansing agent for tli
hair—that it prevents dandruff and stimulates tit
hair to renewed growth.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MILLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE Emm,
STEAM TEMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Eeduoed Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES A BUGOIto
fflilham Fleming,
22 & 24 Cr.AHKNtK Street,
SVILVKV.
dsf
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,'
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydket.
ds
POLITICAL
POINTS
The fat of the laud.—Any province’s
.Legislative Council.
A paid N.S.W. Assembly will vote land-
value taxation. An unpaid House would not.
It was L, F. Heydon (now M.L.C.) wffo
fathered payment of members in N.S. Wales.
H. H. Brown, M.P, (N.S.W.): “We
must suppress these Labour coves, you know.”
Sydney Union Club chorus ; “That fellow
Wise! Bah !he isn’t any better than a Labour
member,”
The trouble with Dibbs is not that he is
ungrateful. He is a lot too grateful and has too
many friends.
On June 30 the estimated population of
N S Wales was 1,211,630—an increase since the
end of 1892 of 14,580.
The cost of the S.A- military staff has
been reduced from £4OOO to £2OOO a year, by the
dismissal of all drones.
The crows already gather round the sick
Patterson Ministry. Ex-members are plentiful
round the departmental offices.
S.A. has locally floated another batch of
Treasury bills—£2so,ooo at £4 11s. 3d. per cent.
The interest equals 3d. a day on each £lOO.
N.S.W. Minister for Works Lyne tells
everyone he meets that he is anxious to enter the
arena in verbal conflict with Graham Berry !
Attorney-General Byrnes (Q.) : “ The
noble sum of £9OO will be voluntarily contributed
to the revenue from the salaries of Ministers.”
The S.A. Government, in assessing the
civil service reductions, reckon an officer’s quarters
as part of his salary—even a lighthouse keeper’s
prison.
People can now form their own opinions
as to why the precious Victorian Crown wouldn’t
touch the True Biff “ prosecution ” of Davies and
Millidge-
Chief Justice Griffith (Q.) is a member and
enthusiastic supporter of the Manchester Peace
Party. Yet no Australian has done more to pro-
mote war.
That portion of N.S.W. which John Lucas,
M.L.C., solely represented in the Legislative
Assembly in 1859, now returns seventeen members
to that House,
The N.S.W. Govb.
raises revenue in many
ways. When tenders are
invited for public works
a deposit is demanded
with each tender. An
unsuccessful tenderer
lately demanded return
of his £5 de-posit, but gob
no reply. Tired of wait-
ing, he wrote the depart*
rnent saying that if the
Govt, really wanted the
,£5 he would make it a
present of it. In reply
he was sent a form of
receipt which he was
directed to sign and for-
ward to the office. At
first he thought he had
been taken at bis word,
and that his £5 had been
reconstructed, but later
on was informed that by
sending the receipt to
Sydney he would get his
money. He sent the
receipt and received in
return a Govt, cheque
for £4l9s, sd. The Govt,
had as much right to the
7d. deducted as if it had
straightforwardly stuck
him up on the highway,
and as the contractor
had spent Is. 7d, in post-
age stamps, his bleeding
country made 2s. 2d,
sterling out of that ten-
der.
Demos : “ Nothing
astounds me more than
the patience of the dumb
beast. A hard-working
countryman in Victoria
sold off for £3B, to buy a
little business at Caul*
field, and, at five minutes
to three, pub this £3B—
all —in a bank, be*
cause a stout gentleman
advised him it was not
safe to have so much in
the house. Next morn,
the bank had suspended,
and the depositor was
told he would have to
wait ten years for his
money.”
A while back, Brisbane Courier preached
out-and-out Home Rule, to the bitter opposition
of the local Telegraph. It is now the other way
about. Isn’t it treasonable for any paper in an
alleged self-governing province to preach anti-
self-government ?
Parkes, by continuing to declare agains fc
payment of members, has emphasised his position
as a man from whom the Democratic party can
expect nothing.
Cock, M.P.—rwhose father built the firs
malt-house in S.A.— has moved for an excise duty
on local beer and a 10 per cent, increase on im-
ported beer and wine.
It is not generally known, that Puryes,
Q.C., wrote privately to Isaacs saying he was
“ with him ” from first to last in his political potion
I'e the Mercantile scandal.
Victorian retrenchment items : Speaker’s
salary reduced to £1275, and six County Court
Judges now divide only £7050 ip salaries and
£1250 in travelling expenses !
Melb. Standard speaks of a possible Im-
perial Governor-General of Australia as “ our
Federal Washington.” Fancy Hopetoun, for
instance, playing Washington.
More than one rejected general election
candidate, who sat in last Q. Parliament, appears
to have been unable to raise enough money to
carry him home after his defeat.
Treasurer See complains of the “ flow of
talk ”in N.S.W, Parliament. See’s own “ flow ”
is about the roost copious and continuous to be
heard in any Australian Parliament,
O’Loghlen’s nolle prosequi fad has run
from Matthew to Matthias. No prosecution of
Davies or Larkin. But this low note of Bryan’s
won’t save him when the time comes.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs has done “a smart
thing” by abolishing the allowances to policemen
for work done under the Licensing Act, and thus
strengthening his hold on the liquor-vote.
It is too late for the Dibbs Govt, to regard
payment of members as an open question, Dibbs
and Co. have let the cat out of the bag and must
now be sponged clean off the political slate.
Treasurer Playford (S.A.) received tenders
for £517,740 worth of Treasury Biffs, although
only £250,000 were asked for, The latter amount
was tendered by one syndicate of squatters.
The movement for a tax on land values in
Vic. is growing stronger daily. At a meeting
convened to advocate more retrenchment, an
amendment in favour of a land tax was carried.
An Albury publican boasts of having re-
ceived a sheaf of letters from Sydney public men,
asking to be invited “ by the people of the border
town” to speak there on Federation and its
prospects,”
Politician Hombnrg’s assertion that S.A,
Judges order £4 worth of drinks ere starting on
circuit, must be given as evidence of their modera-
tion. And yet we have seen a man on
circuit after taking in 4s. worth.
Colonial Secretary Tozer and Attorney-
General Byrnes (Q,) each believes himself MTI-
- successor, and already they begin to pose
as such. But neither of them is “in it anywhere”
while Treasurer Nelson is there,
Bosworth, M.L.O. (S.A.), has given notice
of motion for the abolition of payment of mem-
bers. He, however, proposes that the referendum
f
A THING OF BEAUTY.
SHE (recovering from fright) : “Ah! John, what is that—is it an es-
caped prisoner or a lunatic?”
JOHN : “No; it’s a young gentleman from the University doing a
mid-day training spin for the football match to-morrow.”
be adopted to obtain the country’s opinion on-the
matter. This is -fair, so long as it is expressly
enacted that, should payment be abolished-—which
it won’t be-r-the referendum may, at reasonable
intervals, be re-invoked upon the subject.
Tom Garrett, Francis Abigail and Dan
O’Connor were the three Parkesites who fought
most valiantly for the N.S.W. Payment of Mem-
bers Bill. Of these, one is now dead, another is
in gaol, and Dan lately went bankrupt.
Sydney Daily Telegraph lures-on the
prohibitionists as the taste of whisky lures the
dipsomaniac. They follow it, believing it their
friend, and admiring anti-drink articles, but the
Telegraph believes all the time in _ whisky,
and as soon as the issue becomes a practical one,
will give teetotallers delirium tremens.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Melbourne Argus, on the income-tax :
“If a direct tax is indispensable, why waste time
about incomes that are illusory, instead of going
straight,for realised wealth in the form of an all-
round property imposition ?” The world moves.
Of all anti-income-tax “gags,” the theory
that it may “drive people of means from the
colony ’’ is about the very thinnest. The miser-
able capitalist who left Victoria for the sake of
his income would go ito England and run right
into the arms of the tax over there. Also, he
would have to pay duty at .this end on his
absenteeism.
Parkes, who “ himself alone ” drafted the
N.S.W. Public Instruction Act, now regrets he
did not avail himself of professional help. He
holds that the Act, as conceived by him and as
understood by Parliament at the time, is being
transgressed by Minister Suttor with impunity
owing to a merely accidental obscurity in the
wording of the Bill.
Grainger, M.P..,
once termed “the areh-
Democrat,” acts with
National Ass Baker in
opposing the appoint-
ment of Chief Justice
Way as the next S.A,
Governor. Political pique
makes strange bedfellows,
Brisbane Courier
advocates the leasing of
the State railways to
“ private enterprise,”
and quotes the Canadian
Pacific —which was paid
for to the last mile out
of the public treasury,
though it belongs to pri-
vate owners—as an ex?
ample. The Pot-belly
organ would sell us all
into slavery lease the
railways, the roads, the
harbours, the rivers, farm
out the taxes and the
pus t-aud-telegraph, send
us all back to the era
from which we fondly
hoped we were freed by
the bloodshed of old. Let
us have back the Stuart-
times—only for a lasci-
vious king substitute a
bowelless syndicate,
The Vic. Postmaster-
General summoned the
Vic. Railway Depart-
ment for 355. last week,
and won his interesting
law-suit, If the Railways
had won it would have
been all the same to the
country which paid the
costs. Perhaps some
member of Assembly will
extract from the retrench-
ing Govt, particulars as
to the money wasted over
this seriseless squabble.
Three clergymen appeared on the platform
at the formal reception of the returned Labour
leaders at Broken Hill. Besides the three clerical
speakers and the released leaders themselves, the
district secretary of the A,M.A. was the only
speaker.
The latest Argentine revolution progresses
gaily, 400 insurgents having been killed in the
last battle. At present the Government troops
appear to be on top, but should the other party be
uppermost when Lane’s argonauts arrive, the way
to Paraguay may be blocked.
S.A. Advertiser has now almost com-
pleted shedding its skin. Editor Bonython sup-
ports Kingston, but so far only feebly opposes the
Baker-Ass crowd. The very near probability of a
democratic evening paper in Adelaide alone tends
to keep the ’Tiser in check.
Let the N.S.W. Democratic-party beware
lest it in any way help Dibbs to kill the One-man-
one-vote Act. To assassinate that measure would
be the joy of any Ministry which seeks to abolish
payment of members for the sole purpose of nulli-
fying true manhood-suffrage.
Ignoring altogether the effect of honest
legislation, the MJlwraith men attribute the
prosperity of Maoriland to the frozen meat in-
dustry alone. This is their argument for heavily
subsidising such schemes in Queensland. They
might as well pour water into a sieve..
Sevying-machine-agent Kingsbury, M.L.A.
(Q.): —“England, the dear old home, the tight
little island of which we are so proud, the
mistress of the seas, and mother of Vikings, ivho
gave us these grand colonies, free of charge,
FREE OF CONDITIONS !” Emetic !
If Victoria were an honestly-governed
country, ex-Speaker Davies would be dragged
before a jury even if it cost the Treasury a million
sterling. Should he not be prosecuted, just as a
common man would be, it will, in the long run,
cost Victoria very much more than a million.
Millidge, one presumes, will immediately
depart to take up that “appointment in Eng-
land,” even if Matthew doesn’t return to Colombo
for his health. Whilst the drowsy Victorians are
rubbing their eyes and trying to feel indignant,
the Mercantile Bank case will melt away into a
foul stink.
Last week’s row in the Vic. Assembly was
the one humorous incident in the thick-headed
career of that unhallowed institution, therefore it
followed that everybody took it seriously. The
men who can shake with unrestrained merriment
at Zox’s poorest pun saw nothing funny in the
idea of mistaking “cowered ” for “coward ” and
swearing vengeance upon the wrong word. Their
own ponderous dullness afforded them no amuse-
ment when it was explained to them. “ I applied
the epithet as a verb to the Government,” said
Shiels, to the raging multitude. A learned mem-
ber of the House added the pacifying fact that
“cowered,” a verb, is quite different from
“ coward,” a noun, but even then they couldn’t
enjoy the drollery of their ignorance. The House
was secretly of opinion that it was a deadly insult
to apply anything as-a verb—
“ Cowered ” (a verb) and “ coward ” (a noun)
Are much alike till you write them down.
The heated expression of "cowered” (a verb)
Need neyer aTremier’s mind disturb,
But the'rage ol the House is hard to curb
When somebody says " You coward ! ” (a noun),
“ You cowered ’’—you cowered “ before the blast,”
Shiels meant to add, but they swore too fast.
Before that party so tall and slim
Could get to the “ blast” they “blasted” him.
The Speaker said with a ghastly frown :
“ The Chair objects to ‘Coward ! ’ (a noun);
Withdraw, withdraw ! my word is law,”
For devil a bit of the joke he saw.
But Shiels, he worked his endless jaw
Till “ cow ered ” (n verb) was taken clown,
And grammar had done them fairly brown
The offer of the Cape to lend money to
Australia during the recent crisis is looked upon
by people on the spot as a mere advertising trick,
and the freak of a faddist. “ Cecil Rhodes,” says
a local paper, “is nothing if not sensational and
colossal. ‘ Bonds of sympathy !’ Bonds of Bosh !”
Sydney D.T.
The Times says that the proposal to cease paying mem-
bers of Parliament in N.S.W. is a reaction against mob
rule.
But what does the Daily Telegraph itself say ?
It carefully says nothing. It is busy in trying to
swallow its old-time words without letting the
public hear the gulp.
B. R. Wise valorously declares that the
attempt to abolish payment of members in N.S.W.
is the first sign of the assault to be made by the
wealthy upon the poor. And then he says that
he would be in favour of a considerable reduction
in the rate of pay. No lawyer is ever thorough.
Wise admits the baby, but wants to plead that it
is “ only a little one.”
H
AN OBVIOUS OPENING.
LANDOWNER : “ Don’t want nobody, but wot was you I'arnt to do?”
NEW-CHUM SWAGMAN : “I wasn’t I’arnt, I was taught. (Gets an idea.)
I will give you a lesson or two in grammar for a pair of
old boots.”
During the last 23 years 43,936 Kanakas
were imported into Queensland, of which 26,571
were “ returned.” The official record shows that
8738 imported Kanakas—officially—perished in
that province. One-fifth of the number, further,
have never been accounted for—-in other words,
have “mysteriously disappeared.” There is a
great tragedy here. It means that 40 per cent, of
the Kanaka recruits are actually done to death in
the sugar-industry process.
Thus the Argonaut :
One of the features of the new Belgian suffrage law is
the bestowal of a double vote upon every man who is
married or who has attained the age of 35. In the former
case, he is supposed to represent not merely his own
share in the public weal, bub that of his family; in the
latter, he is supposed to have at least a double share of
Judgment. The theory, it will be noticed, is by no-means
undemocratic. The double vote is not the privilege of
any class, so far as classes are divided by birth or pro-
perty. The humblest miner is as likely to acquire it as
his employer, and a coachman has it on the same ternrs
as a millionaire. It is simply giving greater weight to
those who by marriage have assumed a greater responsi-
bility, or by age may be taken to have a keener sense of
responsibility. Nor is it unreasonable to infer that this
added vote "will, by the great body of the voters who
possess it, be fairly used.
Sir George Dibbs at Penrith.
No speech of recent years, political or otherwise,
has excited such wide-spread interest as that
which the Premier delivered ito the electors of
Penrith. His words have aroused the country to
arms, and the corning struggle is now the common
subject of conversation. Old warriors are burnish-
ing up their armour, and instilling confidence'into
their followers, while the more recent recruits are
on the platform, and through the press declar-
ing war to the knife to a system of retrenchment
that would stop their prize money. Sir George
himself, not in the slightest alarmed at the confusion
with which he has filled the political henroost, gazes
calmly and complacently upon the scene of
activity, for he knows full well that bis ruse de
guerre has succeeded, and that his enemies, until
now in ambuscade, have left the safety of their
entrenched position, and before a shot has been
fired, or a shell exploded, but simply the proclama-
tion of war issued, exposed their weakness in
numbers and strength. The fighting will be
severe, and the fusilades, on both sides, most
deadly. Everyone must prepare for battle, and
no trustier allay can be secured than Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine, it promotes strength, renews the
sinews, quickens the intellect, and imbues the
whole system with such vitality, that it’s Govern-
ment never goes out of office, nor fears the opposi-
tion of disease, nor the danger of a dissolution.


3
V, Vjl-i 1
(' v HpKUS'
Ov-/ a borrp[ |af atffya/ftffc Cou<j/)
! a riffl lljiijlfujqptrsotyattjljraja,
f\ rigljt %lfiysperso9 arpf
Mill/ pUtftj of fat ayd Brass aycl all
1 coddrjf ifyiilj idroijqly, j)of f tra,fa
I Could t}T itjiqtj if Vd tyl
V
, ooi lii/ijfj, I find, I'ntifies' a yap njiycP
' Hi jd tk yotiwd mlljer ijjiipjf fe
dfyaf lift lift a drii]jjS J iycir£ u/rogjly jje IjjiriljS
sis ijtfasfril je you?
We a Jorror Hof- aj/d olfer dislikes
t ®£. a W I fe!/ r '^ l s r 9
J flbpor labor leaders aydofyer hflji frders
./fyd Hfcul d fjai/ea gon-jicucL lupfWUre
TjMlg legislature
’m a M*j|flU for' Host tits licit m sillfiti a/y Eyes I
.. Ifnd nitrify gland ty datjqerionjorroui
jff ftfiegd fo tye tfery World's ttjd
k iijomse our pouierh borrow/ -
Wp could fiwf our blood aydUjet) borrow/.
fltoufnipralloi), Iv'e po jfejiiahop
■>l Tj jayijgf ifi) i/li Correct
] Ifftp Oflij oij IjUjti
i fill ottjirs I ai]i rf _
j\tji fatf %l] olltjr ftffcfT
thrift
yore
1 1 1 faljf fadutaijs Qjjd (a/jcls oufof fynnjiqeft Ijat/ds
flijcl ti gWe a ihfe ojljj fa Sljriff'
Jjll Wrong-fipKiijg njeg douUljedisjratjcljMdtl/ei).-
Custori;- ffttuisc also Icl sjfift,
pBS, lU jVefo frtrifcideagreaJ' lift
s \ o* all o)tw Jioor Crarjljs Ijjju j>uT njotjty ii j
( fl Shareholder, J, lyafirf. )
<obiy couidij’rljjiyf] if Ijjey safupall ;
(Jej deposits wj^tke!
I mist/ ftey *jaij jut'ey, 1 do f .
, Pa m k
"tLosrp
PfNPifll
(FCONSfRUCf
iow
(sjjcfl Iptj issoaijd oijlljf n/atterof (jroaijd
L arjd-tuf. ii a t/lon/ar( ibdjt,
Jjll klljoJoteftrUjat n/easurf iqcur fijy displeasure,
-j. Especially labor tjj T,
<=>t;osc riroyfc labor £!
Ifliityordfrl a utord |at peiijaju you. ijJe l/eard r
Sljat' ijord idos itjJtpted bj yt .
Ibeliei/e 15 l|e caf fvr eacj; [arriljii| brat
Itjtijoi I anj sure you’ll a^rc?
It Will oijly refvrnj sacij as ije
I w iyat Drbbs msj \jis rijjtyt
/Is t)of a njtre bladder oj (jas
rar disfdyf Itjc day klfyl/e ceases fo bray
It] fjft Alohbnal /y*'
1 (|at fljflj|e’fr c oyefo pass'
Mtc -n Q 6es fyy fljrij pleases
1j a flift tJtrt Offered fc rje '
Tj/gy oj tyiytiiyj Td (a(jeit"l*l)« ’
I Would if 'twere Oyly J P
I'd Junjpat Oja fellers J P
A LAY OF THE TIMES.


fds
/
sli
fds
V3NDOINCS
£ 11
$ n £
u*
jAoz& /f faced '//as.
CA
C0 L
' Coufard
a •*
Cowered-
[serlicS
-5> v
f
m
dsf
A f
% \
>
suTpTeo
7 5 T0
rrflK^
2 ’i/XOA/ r f-acfa-r^i
/O u h L /CaT/on. of* TA& //S~T~ &S
an rnybT To T>/clcA en „
m e>m./bers of- c 7^xt-/ia ynertf
— '^ = 2)o-‘Ly jafier*
CHIEFLY RE MERCANTILE BANK.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur.
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co,, Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
J6lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will bo pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
WOMAN'S SALVATION.
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
the great French Specialist. No medicines. His treatise
on “ Woman’s Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope,
upon application by letter (or personally) to 15 Collins
Place, COLLINS STKEEr, MELBOURNE.
Advice to Young Men—Dr, Richards’ ad., p. 1.
WOLFE'S
CHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
and
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEW YORK*
I
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSIITUTE
Tor
WOLFfS
Schnapps
Society
Possibly it was well meant—as an advt.,
remarks The Bulletin's London correspondent,
but the letter of sympathy sent to Lady Tryon,
by the “ Australian members of the House of
Commons,” was nothing short of a piece of brazen
impudence, aggravated by the fact that they
addressed her as “ Dear Lady Tryon ” —a parcel
of people the majority of whom had never seen
nor spoken to her in all their lives. Amongst the
signatories is Mr. Florence Driscoll, an Irish
member, a tall, ginger-headed personage who once
lived a few months in Melbourne whilst he was
inspecting some wild-cat mine or other, and who
doubtless considers this a sufficient reason for
calling himself an “Australian Member.” The
two Currans were also amongst the signatories.
Poor Henniker, what is he doing in such
company ? He will presently be getting a caution
from the secretary of the Carlton Club.
m m m
! When Broken Hillionaire M‘Culloch came
'to England, says The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, and became known as a patron of the fine
arts, it was supposed that, like Col. North, he
would buy pictures by the yard. Consequently,
he has been simply haunted by artists. However,
there is much Scotch caution about Mac., and
though he buys big pictures which nobody else
will look at, he does not pay extravagant prices,
despite the big figures quoted. His last purchase
is the “Daphnephoria” of Sir Frederick Leighton,
which Mr. Frith has pronounced to be “ the best
painting of modern times, if not of all time,” a
criticism for which he has been immensely chaffed.
Frith has hitherto had the cold shoulder at Bur-
lington House, and this praise of a picture—which
has hitherto escaped the approval of connoisseurs
and purchasers—is supposed to be a bid for favour,
and for a possible place amongst the Immortals.
m # #
Mrs. Broken Hill Brodribb returns from
London to Australia in September. She has up
to now avoided listening to the voice of the
fortune - hunting charmer, and, unlike Mrs.
Dalglish, has not changed her name.
m m 9
A N.S.W. civil servant, sentenced the
other day to several years’ penal servitude for large
embezzlements, came direct to Sydney from Balla-
rat Gaol, where he had been confined for similar
frauds—on a bank. Not a word about his previous
“ trouble ” was mentioned in court. He got his
appointment through the influence of another ex-
Yictorian in the N.S.W. service.
An applicant for
the. bounty of Sydney
Soup - kitchen sub-
mitted a statement
of his case lately in a
hand that could not
be distinguished from
copper-plate. Therein
he declared that he
never had done and
never would do any
hard manual labour,
and protested against
the vandal spirit
which countenanced
the blunting of his
artistic faculty for the
sake of a day’s food.
* * *
A barrister afc
Sydney Supreme
Court table, writing
on “copy” slips for
the press, was sniffed
at contemptuously by
several brief-scanners
one day last week.
The presiding Judge
appeared to under-
stand tbe cause of
the displeasure and
frowned darkly as slip
after slip was put
aside.
• • •
Attorney Crick’s
astonishment that the
Greek murder - wit-
ness, Philantas, could
play dominoes in a
Miller’s Point public-
house for three-quar-
ters of an hour with-
out having a drink,
has much better
grounds than Justice
Innes gave credit for.
The publican seldom
makes things comfort-
able for the no n-
drinker longer than
half-an-hour. In fact," in a suburban whisky-
mill dominoes is expected to begin with a
drink * . * #
Few who attend vice-regally-patronised
balls, &c„ know how much work it costs to main-
tain the ceremonial (“on which,” as_ Premier
Patterson says, 4< the whole constitution is built. )
The other night the writer was crossing Collins-
street, Melb., near the intersection of Swanston-
street, when, looming from the mist near Prince’s
Bridge, he saw a tall policeman excitedly waving
a rag towards another tall guardian standing near
the Town Hall. This latter passed the signal on
to yet another “bobby ” under the portico of said
building, who in his turn shook a piece of blood*
coloured silk at the Chief Justice and half-a-dozen
anowy-shirted “johnnies” atop of the staircase.
Immediately the “ one-at-a-time ” barriers were
removed, an athletic youth rushed to the main
hall to alarm the orchestra, “ Sir John ” pulled
his gloves on a little further, and amidst a great
adjusting of vests, cravats, and moustachios, the
whole line moved by the right in column to
receive His Excellency the Governor. A whirl of
burnoose-looking finery, a straining of necks
amongst the crowd outside, and the barriers were
once more in position. The muffled peals of the
National Anathema filled the e«r, and the great un-
washed were “moved on ” from the vicinity,
# # #
“ My song is my life,”
So Antoinette saith.
She’s wrong—’tis her living,
And will be— our death.
Just before the “dead-bird” case _of
Davies and Millidge was called in Melb. Criminal
Court, a poor devil of a first offender was sentenced
to years hard labour for stealing a chest of tea.
Judge Madden expressed a good deal of sympathy
for the prisoner (who had wanted it badly because
there was little at home that he could eat with it)
and then let him down gently with 2| years. The
jury unanimously muttered something similar to
the noise that breaks from the crowd when a
specially large firework is “going off.”
mm#
Afc Sydney, one day last week, James
Sheehan, the cannibal person who deliberately
PONTE.
IN THE BANKRUPTCY COURT.
SOLICITOR (to Bankrupt under examination): “Now, ma’am, remember
where you are.”
BANKRUPT: “Certainly, sir; I’m in the presence of my Maker and the
Official Assignee.”
bit off a woman’s nose because she refused to give
him money, was sentenced to three years’ gaol.
And the same day, at the same court, and before
the same judge, one man got five years for
receiving stolen property, and another four and
a-half years for having counterfeit coin in his
possession ! Therefore, according to N.S.W. law,
it is almost twice as nefarious to receive stolen
property —provided the receiver isn’t a bank with
a bogus balance-sheet —as it is to go into the street
and chew the countenance of a casual acquaintance,
and then spit her missing features into the gutter.
Truly we are a brutal nation, and this is a land
flowing with blood and “ colonial ” beer.
# # »
A Melbourne man tells the story of a
marvellous cure. He was sitting in a dentist’s
chair waiting nervously for the approaching ordeal,
while the dentist fiddled among his implements of
torture and attempted to promote a conversation
with the victim. The latter, however, was in no
humour for pleasantries and took little heed until
(while the patient was sucking a complicated
piece of steel) the artist in irony blandly remarked
that his clientele embraced a large number of
Chinese gentlemen, The patient’s toothache dis-
appeared on the spot, and he fled with his jaw in-
tact. But he hasn’t yet finished spitting.
* # *
Incarcerated Manager Thomson, of Melb,
Standard, writing copy in his airy dungeon at
the local gaol, said that, as a journalist, he had
visited hundreds of prisons in his time. If Mr. T,,
in any capacity, has gone fooling round 20 prisons
he must be a most unimaginative person, for the
dreary places are all built alike, and when you see
one in each country you can take the others for
granted. The monotony of yards, cells, work-
shops, and prison clothes is simply awful. The
drop, and the apartment where the doomed man
says his last prayer, never seem to vary. The
poor wretch doing his “solitary,” and at whom
you glance through a peep-hole in the door, is
always pacing up and down his six foot cell, look-
ing as miserable as the last one you pitied.
Prison-trotting, in fact, is the driest of experiences
unless you take a lady with you. Then it is
terribly exciting, to observe the different varieties
of glare in the lodgers’ eyes as they encounter this
vision. “Stand back!” says the warder to the
prison cooks, when a pretty woman is conducted
into the kitchen to taste the hominy. They stand
back until the visiting party has retired, and
then scramble for the spoon she put to her lips.
* * m
Everybody in Melbourne is laughing at
that pressman’s 13 foolscap-page apology to the
other lady’s husband.
Justice Innes, by de-
cline while trying the Mil-
ler’s Point case to allow a
solicitor to refer to the assault
on the man Pert as a “ fight, ”
and by declaring from his
judgment-seat that it was
“ no fight,” anticipated his
own charge and the evidence
on which the charge should
have been founded.
m m m
Sydney E. News, sput-
tering over the Makin case,
flings “ mawkish sentimen-
tality ” once more at those
who say a murderer should
not be killed. Cain was cer-
tainly a murderer and it is
recorded that Jehovah, when
turning him loose, pro-
nounced sevenfold vengeance
on anyone who should kill
him in return. What a slap
in the face Alfred Bennett
would have given that
“mawkish sentimentalist,”
Jehovah, had he been run-
ning a paper then !
mm#
Major Cutitfat, thefuss-
and-feathers on parade, a
terrible ha-hum Bombardos,
is in a Melb. public office.
A reporter went into the
Majaw’s den witli a smould-
ering cigar-end between his
fingers. The Major turned
pale as death, his lower jaw
fell, his knees knocked.
“ For heaven’s sake, my dear
sir, if Mr. Panjandrum
should come here and smell
smoke 1”
# * m
“ Taking the luggage*
less emigration ” —a recent
suicide’s euphony for death.
* * #
The Redfern (Sydney) W.C.T.U., last
week, let off yet another blast about the necessity
of abolishing our erring sister, the barmaid. The
teetotaller is always anxious to abolish barmaids,
but he never says what is to become of her after
abolition. Yet The Bulletin can’t suppose that
he intends simply to seize Flossie by her gold-
washed hair and throw her out of the only busi-
ness she knows, and leave her to starve, or go
upon the streets, or marry a Chinaman. And
as she will almost certainly have to do one
or other of these things if she is abolished
without compensation, this paper can only
assume that the dethroned beer-girl is to
be pensioned off, the needful funds to be
provided by a poll-tax on teetotallers. The tee-
total man can hardly have the gall to suggest that
the tax should be levied on the community at
large, and—being a good man and generally a
“ reverend ’’—the community entirely acquits him
of the soul-blasting inhumanity involved in eject-
ing any girl into the street for the good of her
soul, and leaving her homeless on a cold door-step.
# I# »
Apart from the pension system, the only
way out of the difficulty is to permit the present
race of barmaids to practise until they expire by
the effluxion of time, but to allow no new ones to
enter the profession. Then it would be a good
thing to be a barmaid. As the race faded and
diminished the fortunate landlord who possessed
one of the few survivors would raise her wages,
and see that she went to bed every night at ten,
and provide her with an attendant to massage her
every morning, and to make sure that she took
sufficient walking exercise. Then, as they grew
still scarcer, the competition for the remaining
ones would become more and more acute. And,
at last, the species would dwindle down to one
aged, white-haired, toothless Flossie, jerking the
beer-handle with a palsied arm, and looking with
filmy eyes to see if the pewter was full, and then
depositing it with a shaky hand upon the counter.
But she would still be valuable because she
would be the very last of her kind ; in fact, she
would be all the more valuable by reason of her
extreme rarity. Her eyesight might be deceptive,
and her skinny hands might wobble aimlessly
over the counter as she made feeble shots at the
customer’s threepenny, and when the masher tried
to mash her she might look vacantly at him with
bleary eyes and smile a vacant, gummy, nonagena-
rian smile, but still she would be the only
surviving female in an Australian public-house,
and there would be a charm about her despite her
age * *
And at last she would probably die in har-
ness. She would crumble away on the bar floor
from no visible disease save the slow procession of
the years, and when she fell her death-grasp
would be on her beer-handle, and her bony,
corded, wrinkled hand would extend above the
counter with a convulsive clutch upon the pump,
like the great blank hand of the devil in old
mythology, appearing above the Atlantic waters
and dragging down ships. Probably they would
have to bury it along with her, through inability
to separate them, and the last Flossie of them all
would turn up at the resurrection with the beer*
handle in her hand, and make a great sensation
in the valley of Jehosaphat.
* # *
That published blacklist has created many a
flutter in many a dove-cot, Wiveshave beenlooking
up dates and making odious comparisons, When
“ wife ” discovers that she was at home superin-
tending the washing on the day when, according
to the official announcement, “self and wife”
were being whirled to Sale, first-class, there is a
volcanic eruption in the house of “self,” The
Bulletin expects to find that official return
figuring frequently in the divorce cases of the near
future.
* * *
The publication of the list aforesaid reveals
that one member, unmarried, got passes for his
son ; another, widower, for Ins wife, Passes ob-
tained by one M.L.O. occupied nearly a column
in the Age. Generally the legislators who do not
believe in payment of members figured promin-
ently in the dead-head list.
a * *
Speight’s bachelor chums, Zox and Gillies,
were among the very few members of the Vic.
Legislature who didn’t obtain free railway passes
for wives,|families, or servants during 1885-’9l.
The most persistent applicant for “ orders ” was
A. Young, M.L.A., but Tuthill, M.L. A., Out-
trim, M.L. A., and Connor, M.L.C., ran him very
close, and many others were not far behind. In
all there were about 97 members of the Assembly
MR. JOSEPH TAPLEY.
(Comic Opera Co. at Sydney Lyceum.)
and 32 members of the Council who obtained free
passes for their “ people ” during the seven years.
A few of them were very moderate, but some of
them “ exercised their privilege ” with great free*
dom.
Shiels doesn’t appear at all as a family
“ free-passer ” on the Victorian railways. Wrixon
asked for only one bit of paper, for “ wife and
maid.” A maid-servant does not come within
the “family” clause, it is true, but perhaps
Wrixon’s was only a very little one. Webb,
M.L. A., is notable as the member who obtained a
pass—Rochester to Melbourne and return—for
“wife and four servants.” Graham Berry’s one
pass, in 1886, was a wholesale order for “Lady
Berry and five others.” James Service is listed
for one pass in the same year. The wording in
this instance is interesting—“ Family.” Simply
that and nothing more.
m # *
Peacock and Kirton are names not upon
the list. Bachelors had all the best of this enquiry
into the deadhead system, and when the next
Victorian elections come on, we shall find candi-
dates appealing for “plumpers” on the ground
that they are neither married nor engaged.
* * *
Reconstruction destruction. Darling
Point is metaphorically in ruins. One much-
respected family, hitherto extremely rich, has left
its splendid mansion and retired to a little country
property which is, perhaps, all that remains.
Another has dismissed all its servants and gone
into lodgings. The head of another, lately looked
upon as a millionaire, has died penniless.
THE “OLD, OLD STORY.”
TV7OULD some kind Gent assist Lady in distress,
’’ will repay. Annie, Newtown Post Office,
—Sydney Evening Nmys advt.
Here is again the old, sad tale,
Of the well-cut coat and the artful male,
And the Virtue that yielded with scarce a sigh
To lofty collar and gaudy tie,
And dwelt for a while ’mid a mighty rain
Of “ legal tender ” and bad champagne,
And thought that life was as wondrous fair
As the golden hue of its gamboge hair.
But, alas! there came an unlucky day
When a victim learned with a sad dismay
That her sparkling jewels were false as fair,
And a tool in the hands of the base betray’r.
That Edwin’s linen was far more white
Than the breast it adorned by a long, long sight.
That the treacherous deeds were far less pure
Than the eloquent words of the evil-doer.
That “ sad occurrences ” poison love,
And “constancy dwelleth in realms above.”
That glittering brass isn’t gold. That Right
Only takes a big “ R” when arrayed with Might.
All which combine in the “old, old tale,”
Of the foolish she and the well-dressed male.
D. W.


It is wise to provide against emergencies which
are liable to arise in every family. In sudden
attacks of cold, croup, asthma, etc., a bottle of
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral will prove a never-failing
remedy.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING ¥ Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
U Ell EL and LECH LEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos h;/ a>l Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
Kanakas on strike at a plantation near
Bundaberg against insufficient food. The Poly-
nesian dole of meat was produced in Court, and
appeared to be about the size of a sixpenny plug
of tobacco. It weighed three ounces. The Poly-
nesian Inspector deposed that he had weighed the
rations of twelve boys on the plantation, and
found the aggregate weight to be one pound. The
Bench cancelled the complaining islanders’ agree-
ment.
» * *
This was not on one of the two or three
plantations whither His Excellency the Governor,
Miss Shaw, Parson Sevan, and the Eat Man
are driven to inspect “ Kanaka life on the planta-
tion,” but there are many such. On these plan-
tations, squalor and gaunt misery are hidden, but
the luncheon is spread, and corks pop, and the dis-
tinguished visitors send glowing reports ’Ome on
Kanaka life in Queensland, compiled from their
personal knowledge and observation. Bah !
# * *
Having found that the Grand Jury enquiry
into Matthew Davies was an unintentional farce,
a promiscuous judicial joke, an innocent impos-
ture upon the public from the moment of swearing
the said jury in, Chief Justice Madden ordered
the accused to be discharged. “Sir Matthew
Davies and Mr. Millidge, who were warmly con-
gratulated by their friends, then left the Court.”
Mark the word ! Congratulated on being at
liberty, if they liked, to “clear” once more!
There was nothing else to congratulate them
upon.—
“ Do you smoke ?” asked Judge Gibson of
a ca. sa. defendant at Qneanbeyan (N.S.W.)
District Court. “ Yes, your Honor.” “ Well, I
think the least you can do is to give over smoking
until you’ve paid your butcher’s bill.”
“If I give you the
particulars of my dance,”
asked Mrs. Darlinghurst of
the penlady who called for
particulars for publication
in a Sydney paper, “ will
you promise me to place the
paragraph next to the des-
cription of Mrs. Bowden-
Smith’s party ? There was a
party at Admiralty House
the same night as mine, you
know, so it’s easy to do.”
“ I’ll try,” said the seribess.
“Do.” And then Mrs. Dar-
linghurst philosophically
added : “I’m as particular
about my surroundings in a
newspaper as in a room, and
imagine that every right-
thinking persoq is of the
same opinion.”
#* ■ *
N.S.W, public-school
teachers, particularly in the
small, far-distant schools,
have had small reason to
admire the Ministerial heads.
Suttor deducts an unauthor-
ised percentage from their
incomes; his predecessor,
Carruthers, cut away the
moiety allowed for cleaning
School premises; and his
predecessor, the valiant
Inglis, lopped off the winter
firewood.
* * *
A “cronk” banker,
now safe in Pentridge, con-
veyed three terrace-proper-
ties to his wife ere his
committal, and now one of
his former large depositors
occupies one of the houses
and has the satisfaction of
seeinghis landlady travelling
round in a natty pony-trap.
Minister of Justice O’Connor, in an official
minute, which makes quite a pretty little essay on
Hanging as a Jb'ine Art, ukases that, in future, no
N.S.W. condamne shall be allowed a prolonged
leave-taking with his friends just before the hang-
man comes to tie him up, or to make a free speech
upon the scnffold. Such things, thoughtfully
urges the Minister, unduly shake the nerves of
the prisoner, who, as in Archer’s case, is apt to
faint, and, having by a departure from the perpeu-
dicular escaped the full force of the break-neck
drop, to die slowlj of mere strangulation instead
of quickly by vertebral fracture. It is unfortu- .
nate that the first victim o? the new gallows-cloture
should be Herod Makin, who, it is believed, could
unfold along and interesting tale, not unconnected
with the authorship of many stray infants now in
Kingdom Come.
# # *
Little Cohen. South Australia’s most
popular Hebrew, having grown tired of the
obscurity into which he was thrust at the general
elections, has announced himself as a candidate
!in n d D (S*A r p.^fo? e a
C omK ,j|
* * *
Half-crown photoline copies of many of
the most celebrated modern engravings are being
turned out in hundreds by a Sydney firm. Re-pro
dictions from engraved prints of the masterpieces
of I ildes, De Neuville, and so on, have now
become ‘cheap as dirt.” What colossal sums
must have been spent in obtaining the rights of
reproduction!
* * #
A true Victorian patriot drinks square gin
at this juncture. On every tenpen’orth (first price)
of gm he pays the country a drinking fee of about
four shillings, which means that the country gets
more out of gin, in proportion to its cost, than
out of any other spirit. Gin has become a solemn
duty, and they should all do it as much as possible.
* * *
Bishop Moorhouse, of Manchester, is ridi-
culed by many London papers for his recent
remarks on “ Sabbatical relaxation.” He believes
in the opening of museums and picture galleries,
but is grieved by Sunday boating excursions and
other mild al fresco festivities. In Melbourne
they would have raved over the liberality of
Moorhouse’s opinions. There he was reckoned
the most broad-minded of men—quite a rollicking
bishop. In England, where Sunday is a com-
paratively lively occasion, Moorhouse ranks only
as a plausible bigot, after all. The fact is,
Victoria, like all Australasia, is Oalvin-ridden,
has become impregnated with Scotch religion, and
is old-fashioned in its notions of “broad” views.
“No man,” says Lady Cook (Tennessee
Ciaflin), “should be allowed to marry until he
had been passed by a board of doctors and a jury
of matrons.” Just consider the matter upside-
down ; “ No woman should be allowed to marry
until she had been reported on by a board of
doctors and a jury of men.”
* * *
For four weeks Hobson’s Bay has literally
teemed with fish —pilchards and barracouta. The
former are selling at 3d. and Gd. the bucket in the
suburbs, and sufficient of the bigger fish to pro-
vide a dinner for a large family might have been
bought for threepence. “ The Lord will provide.”
# ■* «
In their respective supplements last Satur-
day week, the Argus had 3J columns of “clip”
out of 23 general matter, and the Age 12 columns
of reprint out of 17, and two more of the 17 were
almost entirely crib under the pretence of beiir a
review.
# * *
The clothes of a “ distinguished visitor” to
Australia, who travelled on a free pass over the
N.S.W. railways, were sold lately by a Sydney
hotel-keeper to liquidate a board-and-lodging
account.
# # *
M'Arthur, “an aged man,” has, for in-
decent assault, been sentenced at Melbourne to
fds
TREACHERY.
DOMAIN DOSSER (to high personage ): “Yessir, me own bosom
friend robbed me of all I had in the world.”
H.P.: “How was that?"
D.D.: “I’d just begged thruppence, sir, and my mate, Bill,
snavelled the drink I bought with it, sir.”
three years’ gaol and three floggings. Now, in
’B2, the same man got seven years’ and three
floggings. You may flog out of a man the last
spark of virtue, but you cannot flog out of him
even the first beginnings of vice.
# * «
The latest Southern burgling successes are
due to a mild, sorrowful-looking widow and her
little girl. The widow “spots” an apparently
deserted house, which has aback entrance. Widow
rings, and if not answered the girl investigates
the back premises, gets into the house, and admits
the widow by the front door. The rest is easy.
Should anyone answer the bell, the poor widow
offers her hand-made lace for sale, and thus dis-
arms suspicion. The police have only just got to
understand the widow, who has moved to Sydney.
# * *
Revised version (re-constructed) —“ Noth-
ing succeeds like failure.”
* # #
One young man of the clique to whom
The Bulletin referred the other week as being
watched by the detectives, is assistant-master in
a boys’ college near Sydney. His position in the
college gives him opportunity for pursuing his
peculiar practices. Evidence against any of the
men (the names of seven or eight are known to
the police) is hard to obtain, or arrests would have
been made ere now.
» * *
When the Government surveyors were
laying out the site for the present town of Bom-
bala, near the N.S.W, Southern border, they were
at a loss for a street-name. “Well, it’s a fine-
looking street at present,” was the contemptuous
comment of one; when the inevitable small
patriot, standing by, chipped jn with : “But it
may be a street some day ! ” And as “Maybe-
street ” it is officially known now.
• • #
Some Chinese regularly take part in the
choir-singing of a Balmain (Sydney) church.
The chief ob-
jection to gazet-
ting prisoners re-
leased before their
term is, according
to N.S.W. Minis-
ter O’Connor, the
administrative de-
sire to give them
a chance of being
absorbed, without
notice, into the
general commu-
nity. If released
prisoners begazet-
ted, their names
are sure to be re-
produced in the
daily papers, and
their old misdeeds
hashed up anew.
* *
Stead (who
won’t land in Col-
ney Hatch by
reason of his ex-
travagance) pro-
poses, in trader
language, “to
meet the times.”
“ For the best
short story, seri-
ous or humorous,
not to exceed 2000
words ! ” he offers
one guinea. “For
thebestshortstory
not exceeding2ooo
words, taking the
contrast between
real and ideal town
life as a subject,”
another whole
guinea. More-
over, “ the editc
does not bind him
self to return any
MSS., and re-
serves the right to
publish any part
or all of any MSS.
sent in for com-
petition!” And
yet Stead would
write himself red
in the face over the horrors of sweating.
« # •
Ten barristers and nine attorneys appeared
before N.S.W. Justice Manning in a small bank-
ruptcy matter the other day.
MTlwraithian retrenchment. Under-Sec
retary, resident in Brisbane, with some £BOO per
annum, is untouched. Keepers of lighthouses on
dangerous, lonely rocks in the Pacific, lose from
.£l5 to £2O out of a total income of £175.
The present financial year will suffice to
dissipate Treasurer Carter’s shoddy reputation as
a financier, chiefly obtained by Argus puffing.
Experts declare that he has over-estimated the
revenue by £400,000. If so Victoria will have
£700,000 to add to its already colossal deficit.
And so Mr. J. P. Garvan, M.P. (N.S.W.),
opposes payment of members. Which reminds us
that The Bulletin opposes paying a heap of
Treasury money as “compensation” to a legislator
whose estate has been improved thousands in value
by the running through it of a State railway.
“ The M.P. who works only for his pay is
a poor creature enough, but if past experience is
to go for anything at all, the rich man who offers
to legislate for the ‘honor of the thing,’ is the
rankest of canting frauds. ‘ For the honor of the
thing,’ as applied to the paying of legislators, is a
phrase which should stink in the nostrils of the
people.”—W. Bessel Hall, M.A.
Some time ago a Parliamentary subscrip-
tion was raised to alleviate the chronic impe-
cuniosity of a well-known Australian “ statesman.”
The subscription-list was headed by a notable
member of the House with 100 guineas, and there
came a time when the impecunious one enjoyed
the satisfaction of doing his former benefactor a
great service. Find the missing names.
Interesting little item (culled from the
latest quarterly report) for the Melbourne tram-
workers whose emaciated pay is now quite equal
to that of an expert tub-hand at a Chinese laun-
dry :
As the economies in 'vorking are permanent, any return
of prosperity to the city, involving an increase of receipts,
will tell most favourably on the company’s profits.
Let us sell all the State railways and tramways to
“ private enterprise.”
TO .
And have the people of their will
To sit enthroned chosen thee,
Who, swine-like, drippeth with the swill
Of thine ill-cloaked infamy ?
Great-paunched, pig-eyed, and purple-jowled,
Thou lollest in thy low conceit,
An emblem of the crowd that fouled
The font of Justice, and that howled
At honour mangled ’neath their feet!
“In declaring against 1 Payment of Mem-
bers’ in his Penrith speech Premier Dibbs lias
virtually declared himself in favour of a Parlia-
ment composed solely of rich men and rogues,”
writes W. llessel Hall, M.A., from Glenmore
Farm, Penrith, to a contemporary. The Bulletin
has not the honour of knowing Mr. Hall, M. A.,
but it presumes that he is an Englishman. Where,
alas, are the Australian University graduates who
dare to battle openly for the Democratic cause?
Apropos, Tim Bulletin is aware that imported
adult males over 80 are still in a majority in Aus-
tralia. But, for all that, how shameful to Austra-
lian manhood is the disproportionate predomin-
ance in N.S.W. Parliament of British-born over
native-born Democratic members !
In his retrenchment speech Treasure*
Nelson (Q.) said that, “In view of the greater
anxiety, constant care, work and watchfulness
entailed by the state of the country it was con-
sidered inadvisable to cut down the Ministers’
salaries.” And, he might have added, in view of
the urgent necessity of watching by day and by
night, including Sundays, every member of the
MTlwraith Government, it was considered inad-
visable to reduce the salaries of Opposition M.’sP,
Dr. Bevan, the wax-doll parson of Mel-
bourne, lectured on “ American Democracy and
its Lessons to Victoria ” one evening last week.
Specimen :
The enormous protective duty of the United States, as
much opposed to human liberty as the trade in human
creatures.
Protection is a protest against wage-slavery, but
the fatted divine accuses America of adopting it
to ignore her “ natural industry,” agriculture, and
TIME. 1 A.M.
1ST REVELLER ( earnestly regarding weighing-machine): “By Jove! it’s half-
past 12.”
2ND DITTO: “No fear, it’s only half-past 10.”
1ST REVELLER: “Right you are, old man. Why, we’ve got heaps of time
yet.” (Adjourns on a rain quest.)
try to excel the mother country in manufactures.
“Natural industry ” is good. Freetrade has had
the effect of almost annihilating England’s “natu-
ral industry.” But the lesson, of course, is that
Australia is neglecting her “natural industry” in
not devoting herself exclusively to the raising of
wool, mutton, beef,- fat red squatters, smug
parsons, and great, gorged bankers.
Major-General Tulloch (Vic.) :
In the event of war the colonies will be expected by
England to do their duty. They will decidedly be ex-
pected to contribute a contingent of troops for service
abroad. A war with Russia would mean a war of the
Empire with Russia. The colonies, in such an event,
would be expected if necessary to offer their last dollar
and their last man. . . . Nothing would please me
better than to lead a force of Australians in the field
against an enemy of England, and I hope, as a soldier,
that the opportunity may yet be afforded me.
Interviewed same day, the newly-imported Major
Hutton (N.S.W.) said he “thought it possible’
Australia would be called upon to provide troops
for foreign service. The Australian nationalist
who pays heavy taxes to maintain a “defence
force ” will now understand what the Australian
military and naval establi Junents are really meant
for.
Hold your head up, Matthew dear, O, snap your finger*
at the crowd,
Never yet had knightly hero better cause for feeling
proud;
Scorn the spiritless excitement of a mob that howls in
vain;
Spit upon the squashed indictment, you are free as air
again.
Impotent their flabby fury when the Crown is on your
side.
Hang M'Donald 1 Damn the jury ! Matthew never shall
be tried ;
Book your passage for Colombo, every tiling is right as
rain ;
You have “met the charge,” and—rumbo!—you are free
as air again.
Met it bravely, like a lion with a twinkle in the eye—
Crying, “Justice and Sir Bryan! God and Nolle Pro-
sequi!”
For the native-born Australian let the fatted calf be slain,
Bless the law which let an “alien ” set Sir Matthew free
again.
Hold your head up, Matthew darling, whilst the Fat Man
grips your paw!
Dirty dogs around you snarling do not understand the
Law ;
Cannot comprehend its simple beauties which to us are
plain—
Laugh aloud and show your dimple, you are free as air
again.
Wallow in congratulation from the gang that bled the
banks ;
Hold in honest detestation Isaacs, and his kindred
“ cranks.”
Come and toast judicial ruling in a bumper of cham-
pagne ;
After this delightful fooling you are free as air again.
IN MELBOURNE.
Your bore may be either a temperance crank
Or the other extreme, an ale-swigging beery
’un —
You will find one with features uncommonly lank,
The face of another’s a round, fat and cheery
’un,
But although any one of them makes ns feel tired,
The one that we find to our soul’s the most
wearyin’—
The one that to Hades at once should be fired—
Is that horror of horrors—the “ good ” Presby-
terian.
RECIPE.
Take Englishman, Irishman, German and Scot,
And a trifling soupgon of the gay Hottentot ;
Throw in then a Javan and smart Japanese,
And a cannibal fresh from the New Hebrides;
Mix up a Malay and a tnild Cingalee,
With a nigger or two from the Papuan Sea ;
Pitch in a stray Tartar or African Jew,
And flavour the whole with an ancient Hindoo;
And last, but not least, take a heathen Chinee,
And a musical bandit from fair Italic—
Boil well and cork up, and then label the can ;
“ A thoroughbred-mongrel Bananaland man!"
P. LUFTIG.


Optical Oil
Lanterns.
IFROST & SHIPHAMI
Limeligiit
Lanterns.
—OUR—
“EXHIBITION ” Lantern Ont Ht.
To burn Kerosene or any Mineral Oil,
Complete, with 3 dozen slides, £5 ss.
A Good, Serviceable Instrument, suitable for lecturers, Clerr/y-
-men, School Teachers and Private Persons,
f
LANTERNISTS,
482, 474, & 587 George St.
s^zDnsnE-sr.
liantem Depot:
58*7—Brickfield Hill—sB"7
Send For
CATALOGUE.
Post Free.
“THE PR/ESTANTIA.”
Russian Iron Lantern,
e Highest Power Optical Lantern Made. For Public Ente/i
taiaments. School Teachers, Lecturers, Clergymen, &c.
dsf
Price, £5
Consists of a magnificent Lantern in Japanned Iron, as per sketch, with best
4-inch compound condensers and fine quality Achromatic combination front Lenses,
in brass mount, with rack and pinion for adjustment, and with a 3-wick Russian
Iron Patent Refulgent Oil Lamp, with jointed Russian Iron Chimney. The whole
is packed in a black case with hook and eye and handle. Dimensions of Lantern
when in case, 18in. x 12in. x Tin. These Lanterns give a clear, sharp, stereoscopic
picture of 10 feet diameter.
With the Lantern are supplied 3 dozen universal size photographic slides, con-
sisting of 12 views, “ A Peep at the Beauty Spots of the World,” touching En-
gland, Scotland, Ireland, Europe, America, Africa, Australia, &c., a unique tour
of the world, specially selected as interesting and beautiful spots, known by repute
to all of us ; 12 views, a set of colored slides, to illustrate an interesting or comic
story as—Swiss Family Robinson, The Tiger and Tub, The Elephant s Revenge,
Gulliver’s Travels, Jackdaw of Rheims, Old Mother Hubbard, Heroes of the
Lifeboat, &c.. Tales and Recitations of Deeds of Daring, of which we have some
hundreds. Readings with each set. 6 slides, mechanical action, hand colored,
with marvellous and amusing effects, the Juggling Clown, The Irishman’s Pig,"
That Awful Nose. The Bogie Man, See. These slides are specially selected as
being very clever and funny. Hundreds in stock. 6 slides, assorted Statuary,
Animals from the Zoo, Funny Faces, Comic Ireland, &c. 1 slide, “Good
Night.”
We send with each outfit a work on the “ Lantern and how to u-:e it,” giving
the fullest and minutest details.
We have no hesitation in recommending this Lantern set as the test and
cheapest apparatus ever offered.
Complete, .£5 ss.
Write to us ; wc think it no trouble to answer questions.
For Amusement, Theat-
rical and Business pur-
poses the Lantern has no
equal. We have the Larg-
est Stock of Lanterns and
Slides in the Colonies.
Our Goods are Modern,
Meliable and Low in
Price. Our Staff are up
to their Business, and. Our
Advice can be relied on.
The BEST OPTICAL OIL LANTERN in the WORLD.
The Body of this Lantern is made entirely of Russian Iron and ritutted
throughout with copper rivets, and with a Brass Cell for condenser, and the Stage,
and Front Tube, and sliding O.G-. Tubes are made of best brass, and mounted on
a solid brass foot, making the entire front perfectly rigid, and making it also quite
impossible for the front tubes to give in any way. The Stage being open all round,
allows Slides to be inserted from the top or the sides, which is very useful when
chemical experiments are being tried. There is a panelled door with a blue glass
sight-hole on each side of the body for use with the limelight.
This Lantern is fitted with a 4-inch Plano-convex Compound Condenser in
Brass Cell and Double Combination Achromatic Front Lenses 2 inches diameter,
5| inch equivalent focus in Brass Mount with double pinions to the rack adjust-
ment, and fitted with a Sliding Shutter or Flasher.
The Lamp of this Lantern (either 3-wick or 4-wick) has wicks 2 inches wide,
with a very deep reservoir, which will hold sufficient oil for an exhibition of about
2 hours, which is a great improvement on the ordinary 3 and 4-wick Lamps with
shallow reservoirs.
The Lantern Body* is so constructed that the Lamp, with the Russian Iron
Chimney on it, can be removed and replaced without taking off the Chimney.
The Chimney, when not in use, slides into the front foot of Lantern Body,
underneath the brass front, and the front brass toe-plate forms a catch to keep the
Chimney in its place. The size of the box in 14 by 9by s^.
Japanned Tin Sliding Tray and Rod, for use when the Lime Light is applied.
Price, 3s. 6dL
N.B. —This Lantern gives the nearest possible approach to Lime Light that
an Oil Lantern is capable of. To our patrons who require a good oil Lantern we
have no hesitation in recommending this as the most powerful oil Lantern in the
world. Tire Lenses are specially selected and tested before being sent out, and in
every possible manner everything is done to ensure its doing what we state, that
is, projecting a 12 feet clear, sharp, stereoscopic well-defined picture.
Write to us: It is no trouble to answer Questions.
Exchange of Slides.
When buying slides from us, no matter of what quality, so
long as they are the standard size, the purchaser has the privilege
of returning them at any time and exchanging them for others.
As a matter of fast, our system of selling slides is simply a
gigantic method of hirage. We know full well that many
lecturers, after showing a set a few times, find them useless,
owing to their circumscribed field of operations ; but, by dealing
with us, they can exchange their sets for others, if it be months or
years after the purchase, so long as the actual picture is not
destroyed.
Our Charge'for eocehanyiny under this
method is one-third of the value.
A.s an Example
A client purchases 20s. worth of Slides, and
keeps them for a year; if he so desires he can get
20s- worth more in exchange at a cost of 6s- 8d-
Furthermore, we are at all times willing to
exchange slides on the same conditions, even
though not bought of us; that is, presuming the
slides are not absolutely obsolete.
f&W We stock all apparatus with the Lantern —Oil
or Limelight.
SPECIALITY.
Brin’s Compressed Oxygen and Hydro-
gen in Seamless Steel Cylinders.
FROST & SHIPHAM,
(H. S. Jerdan & E. A. Osborn, Sole Proprietors),
Lime-Light Lantemists, &c.,
462, 474, & 587 George-st.,
Sydney.
Complete Bi~ Unial
Lime Light Outfit.
Price, JE2S
Consists of Bi-T nial Lantern, with Polished Mahogany body with:
moulded foot, 4 doors with brass bound sight-botes, bused;
with iron, with japanned tin dome and rose top*, tfin stages
(open at top for chemical experiments), brass front sliding
tubes and a rolling curtain effect , fitted with 4-inch Plano-
Convex Compound Condensers in brass cells ami best double
combination front Lenses, 2 inches diameter, inch equiva-
lent focus, brass mounted, with rack and, pinion for adjust-
ment, and fitted with sliding shutters or,'flashers.
1 6 way Star Dissolving Tap. 2 Best Oxy-Hydrogen or
Mixed Gas Jets. 2 Patent Slide Carriers. 1 Best India Rubber
Gas Bag, 36 x 30 x 24, for Oxygen Gas. 1 Folding Portable Pres-
sure Board. 1 Safety Iron Retort. 1 Purifier. Full supply of
Chemicals for making Oxygen gas. All necessary Tubing. 1
Best Union Cloth, 12-foot screen with rings, slates, ropes, and all
necessary tackling. 1 dos. Best Hard Lime Cylinders. 1 Book
with fullest instructions for use.
Very Best Bi-unial Lantern with most perfect and Mghcst
power lenses; polished mahogany, body lined throughout with
Russian Iron ; with all stages and complete front of solid brass.
Complete, with all accessories of best quality as enumerated!
above, .£32 10s.
If fitted with the latest and most perfect form of etlio-oxygoii;
■atnrator, £4 extra.
EIRASE of LANTERNS and SLIDES.
Terms :
We are prepared to hire out first-class
Instruments and Slides as follows
£ s. i.l,
OIL LANTERN, with sufficient slides for a good
evening’s entertainment, subject to suit any
audience ... ... ... ... ... 0 15 0
With Operator ... ... ... I I 0
LIMELIGHT APPARATUS of the highest order
and complete outfit with slides on any subject,
with operator, sent to any part of the city, per
evening ... ... ... ... ... 2 2 0
Lecturer, if required.
For a term or series of exhibitions, by
arrangement.
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
SLIDES
.SLIDES
{SLIDES
■SLIDES
SLIDES
on every subject.
made on any subject.
bought or exchanged.
indented from any maker’s catalogue,
lent on biro.
for the Toy L intern to the Triunial.
originated and lectures written,
of ancient and obsolete subjects cannot find room on
our shelves.
can be tried during the daytime,
for scientific purposes,
for religious instruction,
on temperance subjects,
for mission work,
by the thousand.
purchased from us, and found unsuitable in a day
or two, exchanged free of cost.
FROST & SHIPHAM,
(H. S. Jerdan & E. A. Osrorn, Sole Proprietors),
Lime-Light Lanternists, AV.,
462, 474 & 587 George-street,
I O’
4 Sydney.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
PT" DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors -The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMBS 11. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Ksq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT.
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : RICHARD’TEECE, F.1.A., F.E.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Office: 87 FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT
>. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALLS
Rosehill -A.'Ci.g-o.st H bl ml *3. ica. 33 Itoseliill, Angus! 18.
5,000 |3T“ at 10 5,000
SPRING Bamlwick, September 2, 1893.
25,000 at 10 25,000
f REGISTER TO
GEORGE ADAMS,
Owner Tattersall’s Hotel &
Old Club Premises, Pitt-st.,
JSydney, N.S.W.
MATCH IT!
Here Follows Just a Sample of What the
Greatest Remedy for Pain can do in a
Cask of Chronic Rheumatism.
A CRIPPLED ROY;
A few years ago, Messrs. George C. Osgood and
Co., druggists, Lowell* Mass., wrote to The
Charles A. VogelerCo., as follows. —Mr. Lewis
Dennis, 130, Moddy-street, desires to recommend
St. Jacobs Oil to any afflicted with rheumatism,
as he has obtained benefit by using it, but he
desires especially to say, that “ Orin Robinson, of
Grantviile, Mass-., a boy of twelve years, came to
his house in the summer of 1881, walking on
crutches, his left leg being bent back. He could
not walk upon it. Mr. Dennis had some St.
Jacobs Oil in the house, and gave it to him to rub
on his knee. In six days he had no use for
crutches, and went home well without them, and
he has been well since. St. Jacobs Oil cured
him.”
CONCLUSION—NO RELAPSE.
“Lowell, Mass., July 9, 1887. Gentlemen—
Mr. Lewis Dennis has just called upon me, and
informs me of the boy Orin Robinson, who was a
poor cripple on crutches, and was cured by St.
Jacobs Oil in 1881; the cure has remained per-
manent. The young man has been and is now at
work every day at manual labour, a case certainly
which proves the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. Mr.
Dennis tells me also that he had rheumatism in
his knee; tried many remedies, but of no use ; and
it cured the rheumatism permanently, as it has
not troubled him for years.”—Geo. C. Osgood,
M.D.
IN SHORT,
By this showing St. Jacobs Oil cures the worst
chronic and crippled cases ; cures promptly, cures
permanently; in this case without recurrence of
pain in six years intervening since 1881. Sold by
all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Too posssess a RELIABLE TIMEKEEPER
at the MINIMUM of COST, you must BUY A
WATERBURY. MR. GEO. BUTLER, of
Moonta, S. A., writing under date June 15, 1893,
states: “I have carried no other watch than a
Waterbury for the last five years, and have
always found it a good and reliable timekeeper.”
/ c,e & /, \
, / V >^ eßY
from
every flower that
breathes a frarrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGiPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
v°
■®°«d Stre^
Beware ofimitations. The genu ine is
signed
y - t- t ■
TRADE MADR.'Xl'riC SEfft
ds
se s Maiglockohe*
" Uljrof IheVaHO
CUSTW LOHSE
LOHS E’S
MAIGLOCKCHEH
-LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are ibe most fashionable inilje world.
Sold by all fyigl; clossferfumers
GUSTAVLOHSE,BerIin.
ADAMS’
f TATTERSALL’S HOTEL I
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
x above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings , Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Street, Sydney.
-V
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR an^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and Soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases Of the skin,
j Heals Cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Go., Hew York.
Jl Perfect Food.
horliokT^
MALTED
MILK
I £§>>>
fds
fdsf
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGEd.
For INVALIDS.
! or TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from tlu
richest and purest of miik, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and matted barlej - .
MALTED MILK is not tb be cooked, *
i?l no milk is to be added ; it is quick 13
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water;
MALTED MILK isthebfestfood for In
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’ 1
— Lancet. April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.’'
— British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Eluott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.G.
QRITERIOK THEATRE.
SATURDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER.
W alter IB en. tie y.
Grand Production of Bulvver Lytton’s Historical Drama,
“ RICHELIEU.”
Cardinal Richelieu .. . WALTER BENTLEY.
New and Elaborate Scenery by Mr. Waiter B. Spong-
POWERFUL and TALENTED COMPANY.
Box Plan and Prices as Usual.
SSP
KIIMI A\'S KI lIDOGS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
||he Panel Portrait.
Size, 9x7 in.,
ISs. PER ROZEIf. ISs.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
6
5/-
ADAM BEDE’S
Cousultatious.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CA.X7TIOKT.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person.sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
ONLY
Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M.&J. MOLOMY,
134 a I* ITT srm:i:r (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
S Y ID ZnT IB
US’ Comtnissions Executed on following events
Epsom & Metropolitan.
500 TO 1.
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
y.R O. Derby and Melbourne Clup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances),
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) tuts DOUBLE,
THREE CHANCES.
S.EACH.
a t
5. EACH.
ds
jSSH pjm
fds
On Tub
€ ANTE RB UR I HAN 1)1 CAR.
August 19. (For HOrseS Only.)
At 5 Each 4000 At 5 Each
First .. .. 300
Second .. .. 200
I Third ... .. 100
IS. and N.S. d. equally 400
Less 10 per cent;
Important Notice. Subscribers rgister and
addreSs Letters to
Hi Alexander, 67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Early application is necessary.
“Yorkshireman’s” selections
—FOR—
£PSOM AND METROPOLITAN.
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should be obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses ahd Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Refkrke, News
and Star, (ggr- •• YORKSHIRKMAN,” c/o \V. J. Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
irinnrTriwi
si iii I ! irtriTN i;
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 63j
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELLIS.
Government Notices.
i
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, August 8,1893.
LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23.
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King-
street to Ocean-street Tramway
Erection of Engineer’s Cottage, Parkes Watet
Supply
Bridge over Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfells to
Wallerawang, at Coberwull; fresh tenders
Manufacture within the colony, Supply, &c., of
Pumping Machinery, contract No. 4, Jeril-
derie Water Supply
Pipelaying, contract No. 5, Dubbo Water Supply
Erection of School of Mines, University of Sydney
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with Iron
Piers, over the Murrumbidgee River at Wagga
Wagga.
Pipelaying, contract No 5, Moss Vale Water
Supply
Pipelaying, contract No. 4, Nowra Water .Supply
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE. '
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The in-and-out form shown by the Australian
cricketers is absolutely incomprehensible, observes Tub
Bulletin’s London correspondent. 1 fear the chief
reason is to be found in the old, old story. Why will not
our men try to keep steady? Lyons seems to be com-
pletely out of form and can do nothing, and a great fault
of the team is that there is no batsman save Lyons, and
perhaps Bruce, who can play a forcing game when bowlers
are getting the upper hand, or on a wet wicket. Then
again they lack a good slow bowler, who will often come
off where a fast Irundler will fail. Such a bowler as old
George Gilbert or even a lob bowler of Charlie Lawrence’s
calibre would have made all the difference in the world.
The success of old Humphreys, the Sussex man, isaproof
of the value of such a player. It would pay some young
fellow well to practise lob or slow round-hand bowling a
la Lillywhite, for he would be certain to be picked in a
representative team. Recollect “ Gib ” Aldis. But per-
haps the most disappointing part of the present team’s
performance is their fielding. Occasionally we see some
grand work done by Gregory and Graham, but taken all
rou id the “scouting” has not been up to Australian
form. Blackham has seen his best day, and the extras
frequent'y mount u,p to a big figure. Altogether the team
has not enhanced the reputation of Australian cricket.
* m m
Why Lord Sheffield should have made such a
point of wanting to get Altewell for his next cricket
picnic was a mystery. “Our Boys” have taken Attewell’s
measure, just as the Britishers came to know all about
Spofforth, the last time he went ’Ome, and dreaded his
bowling no more.
• « >
Gunn is a very fair bowler on an emergency.
If the Australians make a stand in the next match with
All England, long Gunn wlil, no doubt, be given a go
at ’em.
• * •
On this year’s county cricket an All Eng-
land Eleven would be composed of Shrewsbury, Stod-
dart, Hewett, Gunn, Henderson, Brown, Brookweli,
Lockwood, Wainwright, M’Gregor, and J. T. Hearne, or
Richardson. But the team for the big match at the Oval
is likely to include Grace, Maurice Read, Peel, and one or
two "f the “swell” young amateurs who would like to
pi j for All England.
* # #
Bathurst National Advocate announces that
T. L. Ohallinor, of Sydney, last Saturday, won a mile
walking match in ten seconds. Then, to make dead sure
that there is no possible mistake, it heads the item, “A
Mile Walk in Ten Seconds.” That’s just 360 miles an
hour. Good old Benbow Q. Scalplock 1
Last year’s Melb. Cup and Derby meeting
brought a paltry profit of £5Bl to the V.R.C., instead of,
say, £15,000. The Autumn Meeting, which seldom or
never paid expenses, even in good times, showed a loss of
£5768, and the Grand National two days added £1674 to
he club’s deficit.
# * •
There are now in full training within 40 miles
of Sydney no less than 248 ponies and galloways, against
292 horses, whereas five years ago there were only 50 of
the former.
* • •
The champion billiardist in N.S.W. Assembly
is H. M. Vaughn, member for Grenfell. G. D. Clark p;-e-
-vails at dominoes; “ Canterbury ” Hutchison, when in
the House, was the draught-player.
# * #
What would South Australians have said had
George Giffen and his little brother Walter refused to go
to England with the Australian Eleven and the*! collapses
had taken place? There are compensations in everything,
ff » »
The Hopetouns went as far as Geelong to a race*
meeting the other day. Although a careful young man,
Hopetoun is the most race-going Governor they have ever
had in Victoria, and even dear Lady Loch wasn’t a cir-
cumstance to the Countess in this respect. The fact is
that races areacheap and healthy means of—haw I—mixing
with the “people” without being boahed.
* * #
Two conflicting reports of the match, Australia
v. Combined Universities. The Age—“ Bannerraan scored
100 in four hours, but upon being joined by Graham he
stonewalled persistently, and was not out for 102 at the
close of the day’s play. His large score was, however,
greatly due to the bad fielding, as he gave no fewer than
eight chances.” The Argus—“ Graham during his innings
gave two chances ; but Bannerman throughout the day’s
play never gave the shadow of a chanc.e, and his innings
was considered a perfect illustration of defensive cricket.”
* • #
The Australian innings of 843 against Oxford
and Cambridge is a record. The next best in a first-class
match, 775, was made in Sydney in 1882, N.S. Wales
versus Victoria. In Melbourne, in 1887, an innings of 803
was made in a match non-smokers versus smokers.
# # *
It was through Bruce’s obstinacy that Graham
was selected as thirteenth man in the Australian Eleven.
Bruce wagered with George Giffen that the South Mel-
bourneite would be one of the four best batsmen in the
team. He will win his £5 wager easily.
* » *
Private letters from ’Orae aver that at least one
member of the Australian Eleven has been very unre-
liable ovVing loan incurable affection of the elbow;
# * *
Lyons, writing from England, aVers that
Richardson, of Surrey, is the fastest bowler in England,
and very dangerous on a crumbling wicket. Lyons is a
great admirer of Grace, who, he says, is the best batsman
in England even now, his cutting being still perfection.
Graham is described as the best batsman in the world for
his inches, and in wonderful form.
# * *
The wily Edge expects to win the Grand
National Steeplechase, at Caulfield, with his victorious
Trojan. The horse is said to have improved even since
Flemington meeting, and Edge doesn’t make many big
mistakes, anyway,
• # ♦
In future* married Australian representative
Cricketers visiting England with a team will not be
allowed to take their wives, who are found to be a strongly
disturbing element. But if the married cricketer’s wife
says he shall not go without her, wdiat then? It will be
George Giffen and his little brother Walter over again.
* * •
Maoriland War Cry makes a special appeal to
footballers to be saved while young, “as there is always a
chance of being kicked into eternity.” “ Can a footballer
be saved ?” or, rather, “Can he be saved and continue to
be a footballer?”
* • #
Mr. H. P. Parish writes to the press to say that
the Maorilanders did not notice any display of ill-feeling
to them on the part of the Sydney barrackers, “ for they
bade farewell to us in the usual Maori custom— Hiroa
kissing me several times most affectionately.”
No greater example of the farce of the so-called
tips in the daily and weekly papers can be adduced than
the fact that the majority of owners make “ no bones ”
about admitting that the trying of their horses depends
upon the prices obtained by their “punters” half-an-
hour before the race.
* • #
In the match against Essex all the big wickets
of the Australians were taken, b Gad.
The prevailing depression having placed
its steel-cold hand on all enterprise it was not to
be expected that the Columbian Land Distribu-
tion, genuine investment as it is, could wholly
escape. Still, its popularity has been established
upon a firm basis, as is evidenced by the large
amount already subscribed, and as matters gener-
ally are looking up all over Australia it is confi-
dently expected that a sufficient number of shares
will bo sold by the time the ballot finally closes in
November. Should, however, this not be the
case, the drawing will be pro. rata. Further parti-
culars in our business columns.
On Saturday, August 26, Messrs. Hardie
and Gorman, auctioneers (in conjunction with
W. P. Pridham, of Wellington), are to sell several
blocks of Paradise. Paradise is situated near
Wellington, and is better known as the Nanima
estate. The estate covers an area of over 5600
acres, and has been divided into township lots,
suburban villa sites and farm blocks. Terms of
sale are generous ; the title is Torrens. Recent
wheat crops on Nanima have yielded as high as
30 bushels to the acre, hay has gone two tons, and
potatoes 12 tons. Further particulars may be
obtained by perusal of a gorgeous red-aud-gold-
covered book, which the auctioneers will send on
application.
Attorney-General Byrnes “ There is no
employment that is altogether without risk or
danger to its followers. ” One! A lawyer’s !
Owing to an unfortunate error, it was
stated in our last issue that the drawing of the
Mutual Freehold Property Distribution Society of
Sydney had been postponed until 7th N ivember.
That was the result of misconception, whiJi any-
one who has read.their very plainly-worded pros-
pectus (appearing in our business columns) could
hardly fail to perceive. The undertaking of the
management was to announce on the 31st July
(by which day they judged they would be in a
position definitely so to do, without fear of post-
ponement) the date on which their ballot would be
held, and it was accordingly advertised to take
place not later than 7th November (Melbourne
Cup day). The applications for shares are so
satisfactory, that there is every probability of this
date being anticipated.


Established 1876.
STHMA
CURE
Write roR
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ori I
ASTHMAJ
'&V ’
ds
N.NXS
ELLIN
arland » C?, si/&.
UCKLAND
seed Treatise and Testimonials
anjAddre,
.Agents
MELBOURNE;
SYDNEY: Elliott Bros, i
BRiSßAwlTlTfiottßro;>K /
VtU CnTTIHinA *sfO '
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board op N.S.’W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depi'ession it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoio,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
A And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
•—AT— -
LONDON & NEW YORK FRIGES,
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H, A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
Surgery.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co,
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
L 674 GEORGE ST,,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
Sood stays, and those you scut for my
aughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give groat relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the bind for
improving tbe carriage and appearance of the
figure without the in furious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist or.
having our new long \yaist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Olaremont, Hastings, England,
Carter & Co?
XWAit Table
WDM REVERSIBLE
rpms Ingeniously Constructed itli l.liKn S»i?i3V<J-
J- TABLE'is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, Superseding all others.
As a home-atiraction, Billiards have no equal, combin
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation
The PRICES-‘>s to ''AVz Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziernssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine ”
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Yol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum,
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS—YoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SOROFULOSIS.—VoI. XYI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experienceynay
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirsghfelu.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOE
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
L
k
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C,
MACKs
D o U BLE- :
i Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
I CONTAINS: Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
> PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
, PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
I SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
( Solo Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
| Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
dsf
Reuter’S Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to euro every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also l
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, ns well as active:
, , „ , enough for tliestrongest,donotaftcr
■wards constipate hut by their general action please all why
use them. The standard Pill of the U. §. Medical
'■ion. The smallest ami easiest to lake
_ Prof-s-
-horty in a phial.
■
m
I
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post free Is Oa,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M'hn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
Prospectus.
Worth of
Freshotd Frope rtij.
The Mammoth Distribution of Property'
amongst the Shareholders in
The Mutual Investment
—AND—
Building Society,
JB ri shan e, Qne e ns lan d.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament,
Proposed Issue of 85,500 Shares of £1 each.
2781 PRIZES, valued at £85,500.
As per Schedule at Society’s Office.
EACH SHAREHOLDER for every Share held by him
will have 18 SEPARATE CHANCES, or a possibility ol
Winning Prizes to the value of £48,153 for £l.
£1
MAY SECURE £48,153 WORTH.
First Fries, £20,000.
i prize Jt'jo>:o
fl.Sfltt
ii.lHHI
r»,oho
i „ 2,r.oo
l „ 2,201)
1 PRIZE
1 „
>•
£30001
1300
700
((00
4r.o
300
:i
G
ds
Ist PRlZE.—those magnificent Chambers, situate
corner CREEK and ELIZABETH STREETS, BRISBANE,
close to General Rost Office and Queensland National
Bank, latelv occupied by the Royal Bank of Queensland,
Limited, at a rental of ATOOO per annum.
I* AIM ENT of the sum of £1 will secure ONE SHARE
in the Society, upon which there will be no further liability.
The DRAWING will he by Ballot, according to rules,
and will take place not later than NOVEMBER, 1893.
TRANSFERS will he handed to successful shareholders
immediately after the ballot, free of all rates, taxes,
mortgages and any deduction whatsoever.
INTENDING SHAREHOLDERS are invited to
make the fullest inquiry as to the value of the properties
for distribution.
Application for Shares in the Society must be
made to the SECRETARY, 180 Queen-street, Brisbane;
or T. A. BOND, Broker, Queen-street, Brisbane ; or to
care J. H. WISE, 335 a George-street, Sydney, from whom
any further particulars may be obtained.
£49,460 worth for £l.
MONSTER FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS IN THE
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue-—105,000 Sharks at .£l.
Anyone Can Apply !!
No Liability !! !
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Committee :
Hon. B. B. MORETON, Hon. JOHN DON-
ALDSON, J. J. KINGSBURY, Esq., M.A.,
M.L.A., JAMES HIPWOOD, Esq., J.P.,
AITGHESON OVEREND, Esq., C.E.
Solicitor :-Hon, A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
2403 PRIZES Valued as Under
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking
Chambers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
at cost £130,000 ; rental value, £l5OO a year.
Nos. 2to 2403.—Residences, Shops, &c., and
Picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
Total, £105,000. No deduction! Clear Titles!
Apply to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen street, BRISBANE.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
Stamped Addressed Envelopes. Register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49 460 worth.
First Prize, £30,000
2 of £lO,OOO 5 of £5OO
lof 5,000 10 of 250
4of 2,500 50 of 100
sof 1,000 100 of 50
100 of £25
125 of 20
1000 of 10
1000 of 5
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
ds
s
Mr The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
GOUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS
A'lD
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
OXFORD Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st,
Wholesale; el Elliott Brothers. Limited
Makin as an Investment.
Dear Bulletin, —The t'nvy Council has rejected
the appeal of Makin, the infant-butchery man of
Macdonald town, and the local Government
decides that the law shall “take its course.”
Thereupon it is alleged that Makin, after fur-
nishing some valuable information about the most
convenient method of cldoroforrning the super-
fluous spring infant, threatens that, unless re-
prieved, he will make certain revelations which
will “cause a terrible sensation in high places,”
and make the hair of society to stand up on its
beam ends by reason of their awfuluess. By this —
if the story is true, which doesn’t look too probable
—he evidently means that some of the wreckage
which was dug up in his mephitic back-yard was
the remains of “society” infants, and that if
their parentage were known the country would
totter on its roots. And the Government, I pre-
sume, will hang him quite unconcernedly, and
unless he can breathe some horrid facts into the
great red ear of the hangman his knowledge will
be altogether lost.
# » *
This should not be. The State wants money
badly, and Makin is a promising source of revenue.
If it were announced that he was going to lecture
in Sydney Town Hall on “ Infants I
have chloroformed,” with full particulars
as to their parentage, and diagrams of the back-
yard, and provided the aldermen were not
allowed free admission to the gallery, the takings
would assuredly not be less than .£5OOO. Any
showman who knew his business would give
£15,000 for a course of four lectures, and make
well out of it. The lecturer could appear in chains
and evening-dress—the evening-dress as a compli-
ment to his audience, and the chains as some
security that he didn’t leave unexpectedly in the
most interesting stage of the discourse. The
lecture could be illustrated to advantage by wax
models of dead infants held up on a pitchfork.
If Makin couldn’t write the lecture himself I
know at least a dozen capable pressmen who
would gladly do it for him at a charge of, say,
five guineas. And if his delivery was really
execrable—so execrable as to seriously interfere
with business —I would suggest that that de-
servedly popular actor, Mr. George Leitch, should
make up to exactly resemble him and should pass
himself off as Makin, and deliver the lecture for
him at <£4o a night. I don’t suggest this
because Mr. .Leitch looks more like a
convicted infanticide than anybody else, for
he doesn’t. I only mention him as a
good elocutionist and a man with great resources
in the way of facial expression. Mr. Dampier,
who is otherwise all that could be desired, is much
too kind-hearted for the billet. When he got to
the fifth head of his discourse, and, holding up
the model on the end of the hay-fork, proceeded
to say : “I then banged the remains down with
the spade and concealed the legs in the wash-
house,” his kindly soul would revolt at the job,
and he would drop the wax infant into the orches-
tra and bolt down the street in his chains and
evening dress. But most likely all this would be
superfluous. Makin couldn’t have a worse deli-
very than explorer Stanley anyhow, and he passed
muster.
* # #
If the Government decided to tour Australasia
with Makin (he being reprieved before each lec-
ture), either as a one-man show or as an adjunct
to Snazelle’s .Rational Sunday Evening Entertain-
ment, or in the wake of Madame Antoinette
Sterling (I would myself strongly recommend that
he should be run as an appendix to Snazelle’s
Rational Sunday Evening Entertainment), the
profits, I am convinced, would be at least £20,000.
This sum might be vested in trusteesunder the name
of the Makin Infanticide Fund, and invested in
N.S.W. Government securities. The interest, as it
fell due, could be regularly employed in the purchase
of more securities, and, provided no more loans
are floated, it would entirely extinguish the public
debt of the province in about 240 years. If the
fund were augmented, however, by lectures from
other prominent murderers, and by a tax on
church collections, and an admission-fee from
people who go to see executions, there is no reason
why the debt should not be paid off in a century.
After that, any profits arising from lectures by
future assassins could be used for the improvement
of the town where the murder was committed, or
the one where the murderer was caught, as the
case might be.
# » •
The fact that Deeming is defunct is a misfortune.
Deeming, personally conducted by R. S. Smythe
or by Walter Bentley —who is no slouch as a
business manager—lecturing? in evening dress, with
the hearthstone on the table in front of him, and
the half-crown which he says he gave to the cab-
man, would have drawn enormously. If the pro-
ceeds of his lectures had been lent on good security
to the Commercial Bank of Australia, that
lamentable institution need never have foundered,
and much re - construction would have been
averted. The Government might have rented
the Alexandra a,fc a very low figure, and with the
hangman to take the tickets at the door and the
gaol-flogger as dress-circle attendant, the expenses
would have been trifling.—Yours, Titus Salt.
Another “horrible scene” is cabled as
having occurred at a New York electrocircumlocu-
tion. The first current failed to kill, and the con-
revived ; whereupon the doctors chloro-
formed him, and the city street-lighting current
having been switched on he was at length galvan-
ised into the bosom of Abraham.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
“His right leg was amputated at the thigh,
and he died soon afterwards. The evidence
showed that deceased was working with his father,
who had been a miner for 60 years.”— Newcastle
[N.S. W.) paper.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice*
Sent by a Maoriland parent to his son’s
school-teacher: “Please xcuse Arthur he
swallowed a Tin wistle, and I have to work it out
of him some way or Another, wen I get the
wisle he shall Resume his studis.”
Harry Furniss : “ As a very young man,
a London illustrated paper sent me to make
sketches in the Black Country, but refused to
insert them, because so terribly painful.” As The
Bulletin has always said, the London illustrated
papers are devoted solely to the deification of
Royalty and its entourage.
Thus Imperial Federation (London)
quoting a Bulletin leading article
Respectable Australians resent having Tire Bulletin
quoted as an exponent of Australian opinions. It is mi
generis. But it is a power nevertheless among the
uneducated classes, and, moreover, it is admitted that
among the educated classes also “everybody reads it.”
That is the sort of praise The Bulletin delights
to receive—from Court organs. [Boiled down;
‘ ‘ Everyone reads The Bulletin. ’’—Publisher B.]
Gold Medal Artificial Tbf.tii, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations free, J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)


RKTOISKESS
HOW TO
CXJIRIE XT.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), of 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
prepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
ALFALINU VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES* no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate-
ful cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint. . _ ,
The ALPALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of
Memory Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and al! other Affec-
tions of the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended to all sufferers
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d ; an Ordinary Course, 235. 6d
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s. Warning :-Imitators will he Prosecuted.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
Registered.. |y PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
CURED over 100,000 SUFFERERS. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
OPINIONS OP THE PRESS OP HERR RASSMUSSEN.
" Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing' many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”— N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist. ’’—Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices asfree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Heir Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.” Cooktown
Courier, Q.
How to Cnre
THE NERVES.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to Cure
NERVOUSNESS, WEAKNESS;
Despondency, debility,
NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
SPECKS BEFORE THE LYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA* LO SS OF
Memory, weak brain and
nerYes.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted. ~~
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Testimonial.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Herr Rassmussen. Dear Sir, I
think it my duty to inform you that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
their use. Very truly yours, R.
Adams Lugkham.
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS.
TAKE A BOX OP
Alfaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
COSTIVENESS, WIN D,
BILIOUSNESS, [NDIGESTION;
FLATULENCY AND IRREGU-
LARITY.
" Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and 6s.
Testimonial.
Herr Rassmussen. I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies. —A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
How to Cnre
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
ILL COMPLAINTS PECULIAR
* TO FEMALES.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
Herr Rassmussen,—l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Yic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, andl
wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.—
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remed) for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all
Affections of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 25.;;
posted, Is. 6d. and 28. 6d.
Porous Plasters.— These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each; posted,
Is. 6d.
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior
to anj vvher. Posted, Is. 6d. per bottle.
Herr Hassmussen’sHead Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, H.S.W.
Also at
150 Sourke Street, Melbourne.
91 lamUon Quay, Wellington, N.S,
Also at
160 Queea Street, Brisbne.
154 Handle Street, Adelaide,
Up
Alf A
L jlo&
ORy
Mf
1
AJ • MnjNAI i »
*>
J 4 7
J 47
PILL ARCADE
SYDNEY
SYDNEY
HerrRASSMUSSENS
PILL PALACE
ITALITt
LOCK
CUREPIUS
FOR
PILLS
“ lw, l Ibiooo
ALFALINE
BLOOD
DISEASES
THE
NERVES
OEP
0*
FOR THE
AIFALI NE PILLS
Ite BLOODaNERVE DISEASESI
□ unzD
PREPARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
• HERR RASSMUSSEN-
/Mi SO ID HERE IN BOTTLESatI/ Z'f sjf * 22
books ■***
ALFALINE
HAIR
RESTORER
IBEAUTIFItR
nomEsWi
ALFALINE
RHEUMATIC
PILLS
BMISIVj*
ALFALINE
UVERtKIONfV
PILLS
80XONESNUUNI
ilf
ALFALINE
COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIES
sums ujisji
llilHkll
n:m
h&sm
ma
mU
pENTE%
utrff
S?.
mamem
HWtlttf
HERBAL
i;.*U*UL
WfAIMHrtW
2? DECERXEE
ft ?AS#
%
9/
iSr*ssi
my
Herr Eassmussen,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALP ALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of Acaddmie Parisienne dos Inventeurs, France ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U.J.F.C. ;
Honourably mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries ; Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney for his Herbal
Remedies ; Author of “ The Natural Doctor formerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal,” Sydney ; Discoverer of the “ Minto Process ”
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Expert Blood, and. KTerve Remedies —Cured 100,000.
SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
GXJA.RA.MTEED HERBA.L CURES
FOR THE
L O O D and KT B R V E
REGISTERED AND AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Head Depot: ....
South Australian Head Depot: ....
New Zealand Head Depot: ....
150 Bonrke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Bitsbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
How to Cure
THE BLOOD.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Lock Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKD?
AFFECTIONS, SORES, BOILS
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COM-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND
OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored ray
health.— Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Nprmanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OP
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
RHEUMA T I S M, GOUT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
Boxes —3s. and 65., Posted.
23s. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Testimonial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,— l
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E, W. O’Sullivan, M.-L.A,
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND GOUGH.
TAKE A BOX OP
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
ASTHMA, COUGHSTmDCOLDs'
BRONCHITIS; CONSUMPTION.
Boxes—Posted, 35., 65., and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 235, 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.— P. H. Kimm,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORES-& BEAUTIEIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, Ss. and 6s.
Testimonials.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Bcaulifier
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.— J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me oi
Debility.—Tnos. Mudiman, 515 George-st.,
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me oi a
serious complaint.—R. Annuity, 64 Wash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me o!
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.— Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son,
after many doctors had given him up.—
John F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria,
Herr RASSMUSSEKT’a
QUefLaboratory & Head Depot for all the Colonies;
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W


RELIEF FROM GOUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
d
B AL SAM
- ' IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY RjUDY
FOB
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &c.
STOPS A COLD.
CORES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. T jd. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & CO.,
IS, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
WM. AYTOUN SILVER.—As your mother
is dead, and your sister anxious to hear
from you, please communicate with the under-
signed. Any person supplying reliable informa-
tion of the present address of the abovenamed if
tying, or certificate of death if dead, will receive
£lO on application to Manager, Union Bank,
M a yborough, Queensland.
The OALIG-RAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
l.y its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this Is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Audralia than machines of all
other makes comlrned.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’S Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Minieograpb circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph 1 as two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keyS which may be fitted with fractions or other
Characters to ordef.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C! S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
VVtgg & Son, Rundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
_ Amusements,
Theatre royal
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
TO - NIGHT (Thursday), and Until Farther Notice,
Tine Milner’s Right.
Founded upon Rolf Boldrewood’s Famous Work of the
same name.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is.;
Family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
GEO. DARRELL’S GREAT RACING DRAMA,
“ THE DOUBLE EVENT.”
A Cast of Exceptional Excellence includes Miss Jennie
Lee, Miss Myra Kemble, Her Majesty’s Dramatic
Company, and Geo. Darrell.
PRICE.J as USUAL. BOX FLAK at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS t
of
Grundy and Solomon’s New Opera,
“TRe Vicar of Bray.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
CHE A P MUS I C.
PRINCESS MAY WALTZ, with Portrait of H.R.H. The
Duchess of York, and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets,
&c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON.
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Legal.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
In the WILL of ANN THERESA MEIN,
late of Brisbane, in the Colony of Queens-
land, widow deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
having any claims or demands upon or
against the estate of the abovenamed deceased,
Probate of whose Will was on the 26th day of
April, 1893, granted to Queensland Trustees,
Limited, whose principal office is situate in Bris-
bane aforesaid, are hereby required to send in
particulars of their debts or claims to the said
Queensland Trustees Limited, at their office,
Queen-street, Brisbane, aforesaid, addressed to
the manager, on or before the 6th day of October
next, and Notice is hereby also given that after
that date the said Queensland Trustees Limited
will proceed to distribute the estate of the said
deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto,
having regard only to the claim! of which they
shall then have had notice.
Dated this Ist day of August 1893.
THYME & MACARTNEY,
Solicitors.
A. M. P. CHAMBERS,
Ed ward-street, Brisbane.
Henry farmers operatic selec-
tions for VIOLIN and PIANO*
—o -- "
“ Martha," “ Robert le Liable," “ Crown Diamonds
“ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un
Ballo in Masohera,” “ II Trovatore,” 11 Les Huguenots.
18. 6d. each— Of all Music-sellers, or from the Pub-
lishers,
W. PAXTON A < «., London,
AND
251 Swanston STREET, MELBOURNE.
Land Sale.
THE NAHIMA ESTATE,
Wellington.
VERY ABSOLUTE and POSITIVE SALE
of about
7000 Acres of Rich Agricultural and
Orchard Lands,
Sub-divided into large and small areas, forming
portion of the
CELEBRATED and PAR-FAMED NANIMA
ESTATE, situated at Wellington, N.S.W.,
on the GREAT WESTERN LINE OF
RAILWAY, with the further advantage of
having
THE MARYVALE RAILWAY STATION
on one portion of the property.
The NANIMA ESTATE, of which Mary vale is
a portion, has been carefully sub-divided by
Messrs. Atchison and Schleicher into
TOWNSHIP LOTS, SUBURBAN AREAS
AND FARM BLOCKS,
Delightfully situated on the banks of the MAC-
QUARIE RIVER, immediately adjacent to
The TOWN OF WELLINGTON,
20 miles from Dubboand 60 from Orange.
NANIMA, including MARYVALE,
either adjoins or is near to the following well-
known Estates :
GOBOLION, the far-famed property of J. A.
Gardiner, Esq.; APSLEY, owned by E. A..
Gaden, Esq.; and the properties of Messrs.
A’Beckett, Barton, and Curetou, the latter
being laid out with great care and expense for
AN IRRIGATION ORCHARD.
WELLINGTON IS ONE OF THE MOST
PROSPEROUS TOWNS IN THE WEST,
and the Climate and Soil are very suitable to
the extension and further settlement of
FARMERS, GRAZIERS, OROHARDISTS,
&c, &c.
TOWN LOTS vary from £ ACRE to 3 ACRES ;
SUBURBAN AREAS, from 3 ACRES to 12
ACRES;
FARM BLOCKS, from 30 ACRES to 200
ACRES,
And will be offered so that purchasers may in-
crease these Areas by buying Consecutive Lots.
THE CHARACTER OF THE COUNTRY is
as follows: —
The Frontages consist of Well-grassed Arable
Flats and gently undulating Ridges, lightly
timbered with box and apple tree. The Back
Portions consist of Rich Wheat-growing Land,
with higher box country, eminently adapted for
Grazing Purposes. The MACQUARIE RIVER
bounds the property for miles, and there are some
VERY RICH ALLUVIAL FRONTAGES.
GOOD ROADS are made for miles through the
estate, and, in addition to river and creek front-
ages, ample provision has been made for water
by dams, water-holes, &c., &c.
Land Sale.
UNDERGROUND WATER
may be tapped on almost any part of the property
at a very moderate depth. Many years of great
effort and much money have been expended
on this estate in bringing it to its present
cleared and fruitful farm position ; indeed,
some 500 to 000 acres have been for years
under wheat, lucerne, corn, fruit, and orchard
cultivation. The other portion is under-cleared,
and yields abundant grasses of a rich feeding
quality. ‘ The rainfall is large, and the district
(1000 ft. above sea level) is peculiarly sheltered
from the biting winds which prevail at
greater altitudes. Recently farmers from Vic-
toria and visitors from England have settled at
Wellington, and their work of a real and pro-
fitable character is apparent, and only needs
inspection to excite admiration. The rich and
fertile valleys of the WELLINGTON Dis-
trict, with the surrounding hills, form quite
an amphitheatre; and the solidity of the
country, with happy, prosperous and con-
tented settlement, form object lessons of the
highest character. The Auctioneers, witli
confidence, invite inspection before the day of
sah', which is fixed to take place at WEL-
LINGTON, on SATURDAY, AUGUST
20, 1893. From its exceptionally advan-
tageous position, NANIMA offers particu-
larly favourable opportunities alike for a
mixed system of Farming and Dairying, com-
bined with fattening and wool-growing, and
as a site for a Stock Depot or Meat-chilling
Works is second to none on the Western line ;
indeed, a great market for produce of all kinds
is already established at Bourke. The mineral
resources of the district are considerable, and
a large gold-mining industry (Mitchell’s
Creek) is being successfully carried on in the
immediate vicinity. The route of the Werris
Greek-Wellington line is laid off through the
property, and it is probable it will be con-
structed in the near future.
The title is Torrens. The Terms of Sale have
been arranged to suit the various classes of
lands and of purchasers, and are as follows :
20 per cent, deposit and balance in four annual
payments at 5J per cent., or 25 per cent,
deposit and the balance in 5 years secured by
a fixed mortgage at 6 per cent., or 33J per
cent, deposit and the balance in 12 months at
5 per cent., or the balance may be paid for in
CASH. Lithographs, together with descrip-
tive particulars can be obtained on application
to the Auctioneers, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. NORTON, SMITH and CO., Solicitors,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
HARDIE and GORMAN (in conjunction
with Mr. W. P. Pridham, of Wellington
have received instructions to sell bv public auction,
at WELLINGTON, on SATURDAY, AUGUST
26tb, 1893, the above-described property, known
as NANIMA, including MARYVALE.
The Auctioneers desire to direct special atten-
tion to the Important Pastoral Interests in con-
nection with the disposal of this very fine pro-
perty, and to point out the many profitable advan-
tages that may accrue by the starting of Dairy
Farming on a large scale ; also by the erection of
Butter Factories, &c. This class of country is
exceptionally adapted for such enterprise, or for
stud farms, the facilities afforded by rail carriage
being specially good. AGRICULTURISTS will
do well to pay attention to the chances of this
sale, and the VIGNERON and ’ORCHARDIST
can profitably indulge in Vine and Fruit Culture
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893.
NAMBEOK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
The only Agricultural Property Distribution!
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments
“ NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties:
• '
4,;
* m
4c’
“ 4 "nX
. %
■ •v^ujprte;
Vj : ' , '<*?t-‘i-‘J’> < A > < u .jy) .k' ."*/'
/’ v-*"
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated value
Also, 59 Properties ~
£12,000
each 1,050
Mamtorolt House.
On 16th JULY, only £26,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATIONS for SHARES is required.
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representativesi of Ithe Press) is to take place without
L VfIvWMBEB and results will be duly advertised. All moneys are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure. P. P. LABERIOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major
{?u. OFFICERf CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J. WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z.
The FIRST BALLOT will be from the ft NAMBBOK” Estate, which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (out of a total of
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
APPLICATIONS for SHARES should be made by Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
(Or E. J. Dk BOMFORD), c/o J. H. A strop,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Cotmell Street, SYDNKY, N.S W.
amount forwarded, and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply (two, if
results required direct). Do not attach stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is
made by cheque.
N B —ln the case of the extra ,£26,700 not being subscribed by November, the best value of pro-
perty for the amount subscribed will be included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate per-
centage of bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per cent, short, the Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed the Shareholders.
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
1893.
PLEASE ALLOT me
Shares.
Name
Address
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co.
(Or E. J. Db BOM FORD), o/o J. H. ASTROP,
Marlborough Chamber*, O'Consbi.l Strf.bt, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


*r?
-
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince <* Wales.
The Glen Elgin, an English co. working a big-
area New Eng. mine, has had a lively time. Twice some
heavy fluming has been flooded away, the free gold has
diminished in the hard ground, no means exist for pro-
perly treating suiphurets, and the bank-smash increased
the’money troubles. But the Britishers refuse to go
Under. They recently cabled money to clear off every
liability, rock-borers lo cheapen and increase the output
have been shipped, and arrangements are being made for
pyriufl treatment. Meanwhile, blocks of ground are let
bn short tributes to the miners, who pay 25 per cent,
royalty and 2s. a ton for crushing.
A word in tho ear of g.m. shareholders who live
in the hope of recovering all the gold now running away
in the tailings. On the Randt, when the gold as well as
the ore admirably suits the cyanide process, it is reckoned
that the M‘Arthur-Forrest system saves, on an average,
67 per cent, of the gold from tailings. Most of the people
who talk about adopting cyanide at Pambula and
elsewhere, think that it is going to absolutely clear the
tailings of gold.
# # *
Gold production is the most fiorishing industry
of Australia to-day; the gold-output is greater than
when the boom was at its apex. It is the closing of silver
and copper-mines because of’the fall in prices and the
shutting up of wild cats of every sort that has thrown
thousands of miners out. All, however, will soon he em-
ployed if the general gold-increases continue. The old
fields, Charters Towers, Gympie, Bendigo, Ballarat, have
wonderfully increased yields ; the younger fields of
Croydon, Etheridge, and others are coming forward ; so
are the fields of Gippsland. Westralia will probably this
year more than double any previous output. Even
N.S.VV. promises to put on a gold spurt. Baker’s Creek
mines have an upward tendency. The Lucknow mines
are producing much gold, although the exact returns are
not published here. Mt. Allen is maintaining the reputa-
tion the writer foreshadowed a year ago. Though run-
ning a bad last in the race for gold with a poor show of
catching up to any of the other provinces, N.S.W. is now
winning more gold than for many years back.
# # #
The public are constantly hearing of rich finds
in the old Hill End field, but it is sad to read in conjunc-
tion therewith of execution-writs and sheriff’s sales. One
or two good crushings, the deposit of a few cwt. of speci-
mens in the local bank, and then a long, death-like
quietude.
# * *
Pambula and Swamp Oak resemble each other
in their small, erratic crushings of loz. stone when under
20 tons are put through, and joz. stone when over 30 tons.
Each has reached the tributing stage. Pambula has had
its boom, and will never have another. Swamp Oak never
will have one.
# # #
If the Pambula mine is all correspondents and
managers would have the public believe, why is work
suspended ? Possibly, because of the want of means to
save fine gold ; also, possibly, because of the want of
means to find gold to save. Of Mt. Gahan, the newspaper
man complains of his inability to get information of the
fortnightly returns. Big cakes are never concealed.
# * #
The writer has often asked when the Gordon
Emery and Color Co. w mid start their div. A share-
holder answers his queries by a long letter, alleging a
nice state of things. He shows how certain people got
their paid-up shares; he paid for his contributing, and,
after paying call after call, he and others have received
writs for farther payments.
# * #
The results arrived at by the municipal owner-
ship of gasworks at Bathurst and Orange (N.S.VV.) are yet
another proof that “private enterprise” is merely a
synonym for something as injurious in its effects as bush-
ranging. At Orange the gasworks were bought from the
private owners five years ago for £13,000, the corporation
borrowing the' money to pay for them. Since then the
price of gas has been reduced one-half, and at the present
rate of progress the debt incurred in purchasing the
works will be entirely paid off in seven years. Therefore,
by public, instead of private, ownership, the town gets its
gasworks for nothing, for they pay their own cost, and its
gas for half the former rate.
» * *
At Bathurst the corporation has reduced the
price of gas to Bs. 3d. per 1000 feet against os. Bd. in
Sydney, where, considering all advantages, the : rate
should lie much lower than in the inland city. Also it
has paid £5OOO off the cost of the works out of profits,
and is paying off the balance at the rate of over £lOOO per
annum. It Sydney were delivered from its bondage to
the Eat Men of the Australian Gas Light Co. it could also
pay off the cost of its gas-works out of profits and reduce
the price of the sickly illumination to 3s. or less. But
instead of doing this it is, with a view to making its
bondage perpetual, giving an electric-lighting power-
proditciion monopoly to another set of Cat Men (the
Grose Valley syndicate, who boast in private that when
they have grabbed the Colo water-rights it will bo a
million of cold cash in their pockets.)
# # . #
Silver down again Id. —2s. Bd.
# _ * #
There is an increasing number (over 30U) men on
the White Cliffs (N.S.VV.) opal-field, but only a dozen are
on payable opal, of which one tributor has taken out
£3OOO worth.
* # #
The congratulations of that Sunday paper’s
correspondents usually commence: “As a constant fol-
lower of your mining tips.” The names of the slocks out
of which they have made fortunes by following the tipster
arc never mentioned. Perhaps they are as follows—
British Consols, Soudans, Butcher’s Reef, Hopetouns, Mt.
Poole, Marvels, Mt. Stewarts, Sunny Corners, Lewis
Ponds and Mercury. Who knows?
# • * #
When the Menindie Tramway Bill showed
signs of becoming Helplessly stuck in its progress through
N.S.VV. Parliament a lubricant was forthcoming in the
suggestion that hordes of unemployed at Broken Hill
regarded the opportunity of obtaining work in building
the line as an alternative to starvation. Afterwards the
session was prolonged and Parliament walloped into
activity, largely by means of the unemployed gag, and
ultimately the Bill just squeezed through. Having got
their concessions, the syndicators engineering the co. —as
soon as it floats —are desirous of starting the unemployed
on the line at Bs. 4d. per day, half in cash and half in
shares. “G. W. Simpson, local director,” propounds the
idea in a letter to a Broken Hill paper. One contractor,
the epistle sets forth, has offered to start building the
line when 25,000 shares have been allotted, and to take
the company’s debentures as payment for the balance,
which causes the writer, for some reason not stated, to
“plainly see that the local men would not get employ-
ment on the work if done by contract.” Also one of the
advantages of taking shares instead of cash is that first
holders will have prior right to take up subsequent issues
of shares, and lest the local men should even then hesitate
G.W.S. records his opinion that “according to the in-
crease in the probable value of shares when the line is
complete, the men will find that instead of Bs. 4d. per day
they have been working at the rate of from 12s. to 13s. per
day." To make the affair complete, the Menindie direc-
tors are understood to be now elaborating a scheme
whereby their workmen in prospective will each be able to
maintain a wife and family on 4s. 2d. per day.
# # *
Extract from a private letter from Coolgardie,
G.T. : “ We are passing through Coolgardie on the way
to the new (Hanna’s) rush. Travelling is very dear, and
so, for the matter of that, is everything else. I want you
to send me £lo—to the Coolgardie P.O.—as I have spent
all I brought in provisions and water. There is a regular
famine on the field, all the men seem starving although
there appears to be some gold among them. Xne state in
which the diggers are may be gauged by the fact that
numbers came 20 miles from the field to meet the
waggons and purchase food. Unless provisions reach
here soon in some quantity the drays will probably be
rushed and ransacked on their arrival, and the weaker
will be left absolutely without food. Prices: Flour,
Is. 6d. ; rice, 3s. 6d.; butter, 4s. ; meat, 2s. fid. ; and
sugar, Is. sd. per lb., respectively. I have not yet been
to Bayley’s claim, but have seen some splendid genuine
specimens, thickly studded with gold. The place looks a
far superior place for reefing to the Cross. The country
about here is hilly and picturesque, hut there is no water.
Could it be obtained at any reasonable rate, or stored
during the rainy weather, a man with a battery would
make a fortune in a few months, for there are plenty of
reefs all about the surrounding country which would pay
well then, but are not rich enough to pan out by dollying,”
* # #
A Melbourne man has won a nice little wager.
A month ago he bet his wife a level £25 that Matthew
Davies would ho tried by Chief Justice Madden. As soon
as the interesting point was settled, the speculator in
question gave his wife the money to pay him with and
cried quits.
• # *
Punch M‘Kmley, making his maiden speech
in the Victorian Assembly, said that the people of
Victoria had to pay £OOO,OOO per annum during the
next five years to the various liquidating and reconstruct
ing companies. In the light of liquidators’ revelations
c mcerning “calls,” M'Kinley’s estimate looks rather
amusing. However, “mum's” the word. The bank
shareholders are paying in the extra capital with enthu-
siasm, and the banks are stronger than ever! Then
isn’t a single manager prepared to deny this fact.
A New Metal-Winner.
The Otis Ore Crusher, already noticed in The
Bulletin, will revolutionise quartz-mining in
Australia if capable of half what is claimed
for it. ■The crusher, or to give its most descrip-
tive name, the Ball Mill, is made in three
sizes, the largest of which is 3ft. wide by Gft.
in diameter, and weighs when loaded with the
crushing balls about six tons. The mill is sim-
plicity itself—it has few working parts, and is,
therefore, unable to get out of order. Power is
given to the mill by a light belt or by an engine
coupled direct on to the pinion - shaft. The
crusher is actually a hollow revolving drum into
which are placed 120 balls made of a specially
tough steel forged under the steam-hammer. These
balls vary in diameter from three to five inches,
and in weight from eight to 17 pounds, tho total
weight being 13 cwt. The ore to be operated on
is fed into the drum, and motion being given to
the drum the balls falling on the ore and on one
another quickly crush the material to any degree
of fineness that may be desired. The drum has a
speed of 24 revolutions per minute, and this rate
is never decreased or exceeded. As the crushing
proceeds, the ore itself is broken into a circular,
or rather a spheroidal form, and the circular
motion of the mill makes the ore, to a great
extent, crush itself. The degree of fineness
desired is attained by the use of screens of
varying width of mesh from a minimum of 1000
to a maximum of 6400 holes per square inch.
In operation the ore is fed to the machine in
proportion to the quantity it will crush per hour,
which is in accordance with the degree of fineness
desired and the nature of the ore to be crushed.
Regular feeding is essential to the efficient working
of the machine.
When broken up, the ore at once falls through
the holes in the segments, and if fine enough it
passes through the coarse screen ; if not, it is at
once returned to the inside by the return elevator
plates to be further crushed. If after passing
through this screen it is fine enough to pass
through the fine sieves, it does so ; or, if not, it is
again returned to the inside by the return elevator
plates. This action prevents the formation of
slimes, as the moment the ore is crushed fine
enough to pass through the required mesh it goes
away, the screening surface exposed for the ore to
pass through amounting to 1250 square feet per
minute.
The machine works equally well when work-
ing dry as wet, provided the ore to be crushed is
thoroughly dry. The output is from 17 to 30 cwts.
per hour from the No. 2 Crusher, according to the
mesh and nature of the ore. When crushing wet,
the water is forced through the fine sieves from a
pipe having a number of jets running across the
face of the drum, inside the casing, so as to meet
the sieves at the point where the ore is returned
to the inside when not line enough to pass through
the sieve. This keeps the sieve clean and assists
in returning the uncrushed ore into the crusher.
From actual experience it has been found that'the
principal wear is in the steel balls, which lose
from lOlbs. to 301ba. in weight per 250 tons of the
ore crushed, according to the nature of the ore.
The wear on the steel plates is practically nothing,
for they last at least three years ; and owing to the
screens and sieves being protected so that heavy
pieces of uncrushed ore cannot come in contact with
them, theyendurefrom six totwelvemonths. When
dry crushing, the sieves are made of phosphor-
bronze wires, and when wet, of steel wire. When
crushing dry, a dust pipe is led from the upper
part of the machine to a dust receiver, thus pre-
venting all dust in the crushing-room.
A Bulletin man was present at one of the
many trials of this mill, which is manufac-
tured by the Otis Engineering Go., and is to be
seen at work at Moray-street, South Melbourne,
and was shown the marvellous simplicity of the
working parts of the machine, which is being put
to the severest of tests by Mr. Robert Brown.
Mr. Brown claims for the mill the following ad-
vantage s over stampers and other crushers (1)
The weight of tile mill is very slight. A No. 2
machine weighs 71 tons. (2) The wear and tear
only calls for the renewal of 201bs. of steel balls
per 250 tons crushed, or about a halfpenny per
ton. (3) The output, as compared with the
power expended, is enormous; for instance,
a No. 2 mill, driven by a maximum of 8
horse-power, will put through from 17 to 30
cwts. per hour. A No. 1 mill, driven by a double
horse gear, will put through 4 tons per 24 hours,
and a No. 3 mill will treat with 10 horse-power
from 25 to 45 tons of ore, according to the degree
of fineness required. This No. 3 mill, on a long
and heavy trial, has treated the hardest quartz at
the rate of a ton an hour, with screens of 2500
holes to the inch. During the last few weeks
several parcels of antimony ore, totalling about GO
tons, from Antimony Hill, Templestowe, Queens-
town, and Bacchus Marsh, have been treated at
the Moray St. works with great success, and, in
the case of the Antimony Hill stone, the Otis
Ore Mill produced loz. of gold to the ton from
the same quality of stone which had yielded a
penny-weight to the ton under the company's
batteries. The mill has three great virtues—
economy of first cost and maintenance, simplicity
of working parts, and, as the case of the Antimony
Hill crushing will show, an efficiency which earlier
crushers have never come within cooee. The
writer was shown, while at the mill-trial the other
day, two working Otis amalgamating tables which
are used in conjunction with the mill. The new
Otis concentrator which is also working has been
designed to save both gold and pyrites, the gold
being concentrated in the upper table, and the
pyrites, tin or galena, on the lower shelf. The
concentrator and amalgamator will treat from
7 to lOcwt. of finely pulverised ore per hour, and
can be driven at top speed with an expense of one-
horse power.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne ; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
To the Land of our Fathers.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Ho, England ! braggart England ! circled round
with laughing sea,
Great laud of fog and sullen, streaming rain,
Here comes a flying word to thee
Across the marching main,
From the realm of lazy sunlight to the country of
the free.
And the song we sing
Must wildly ring,
With mingled shout and mocking glee,
A sorrowful refrain.
Onward ! Onward! God is crying—
Be the road to heaven or hell.
Onward! and the dead and dying
May not stay us—fare you well!
Shakespeare’s birthland —land of poets ! multitu-
dinous thy song
As the voice of wind that waileth in the tree,
Or seeks the endless waves that throng
About the restless sea ;
We hear your voice with rapture, and we scorn to
do you wrong.
Oh, glorious land
Of music grand !
Oh, image of hypocrisy !
Our debt to you is long.
Onward ! Onward ! God is crying—
Be the road to heaven or hell,
Onward ! And the dead and dying
May not stay us—fare you well!
The past is very precious to the ruler of the waves,
And she kisses relics better thrown away,
She hoards the ancient lies, and saves
The garments that the day
Shows are filthy, rent and ragged, but she wildly
rants and raves*
Flinging wide,
In her pride,
The rotten shrouds from reeking graves
Where she is wont to pray.
Onward ! Onward ! God is crying—
Be the road to heaven or hell,
Onward ! And the dead and dying
May not stay us—fare you well!
We spurn your purple rags, but pay our tribute to
your powers,
To the sturdy way in which you’ve stood alone,
Stood and calmly claimed the flowers
Which other hands had grown.
Still before your righteous anger foul injustice
slinks and cowers —
For only you
Wrong may do!
Then may your virtues still be ours;
Our vices—all our own !
Onward ! Onward ! God is crying—
Be the road to heaven or hell,
Onward ! and the dead and dying
May not stay us—fare you well !
J. LE GAY BRERETON.
Harry Power: A Personal Reminiscence.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Hare’s one-sided “ Last of the Bushrangers ” had
started the talk, and yarns of the Kelly Gang led
to stories of Harry Power, the daring bushranger,
who, after spending some 20 years in prison, twice
escaping therefrom at Williamstovvu and Pent-
ridge, and being four times “east for death, ’ yet
lived long enough to meet an unromantic,
“ natural ” death in the dull waters of the
Murray. Let me here tell my story.
One day at the end of 1889 I had gone up to
Melb. University on official business connected
witli the Australasian Association for the Ad-
vance of Science. While I was there, a little
grey man in black trousers, blue coat and soft felt
hat, entered and asked for the Association secre-
tary. The Professor being absent, however, the
quiet-looking, little grey man was directed to me
as a possible source of information on Association
subjects.
“ My name is Power,” said he. Noting my un-
informed look, the visitor, with a peculiar quick,
furtive, sidelong glance from the corner of his
eye, observed, “ I’m Harry Power !”
Something in the glance and the tone told me
that he was none other than the exbushranger,
and apparently my understanding was recorded
on my face, for the little grey man, with “I see
you know me, sir,” showed his appreciation of the
fact.
Power was desirous of being engaged as guide
to a party of A.A.A.S. members who purposed an
excursion into Gippsland. ‘ ‘ There ain’t many people
who know the ranges like 1 do,” said the little
grey man. “I had to know them once, you see,
so I learned near every rock and stump, and every
wallaby-track on them. I believe I’m the only
man alive who knows where the crows nest in
those parts. It’s a long time now since I was
there, but I could take you to it still.” Then he
described to me a wondrous, great rocky cliff,
whitened with the crow-slime of ages, which at a
certain time of the year was rendered almost
black by the thousands of nesting crows upon it.
His style was graphic, especially when his yarn
verged upon the Sinbadic in its steepness.
“Once,” he went on, “when they were out
after me, I was going through the ranges a little
off the track, when I saw old Judge A’Beckett
riding along the road on circuit. I followed him
most of the afternoon waiting for a chance. I
didn’t want to kill him, for I’d never kill anyone
except in self-defence. My notion was to lift his
purse, and so on, and splice him to a fence, and so
keep him late for the assizes.” So intent, how-
ever, was he on watching the Judge, that he
neglected to keep an eye on his own safety. Tims
it came about that he himself was captured by a
party of police and others who were following the
Judge at some distance. That night, Judge
A’Beckett, bearing that Power was in the gaol,
and knowing the bushranger well, visited him in
his cell. The Judge was much amused when the
bushranger told him how near he had come to
being the unwilling subject of a highway robbery.
“ I knew I was safe in telling him, for I knew
he was a good fellow and a straight, honest man,
and wouldn’t use it against me. Ah, but his eye
twinkled when he came to sum up in my case.
No one but himself and me knew what I was after
when they got me, and no one knew why the
Judge smiled at me from the Bench. But he only
gave me my proper stretch for horse-stealing.
Yes, Judge A’Beckett was a decent fellow.”
I asked whether he had ever thought of writing
his autobiography. “Yes, I’ve sometimes thought
about it,” said lie, “ but I’ve made up my mind
never to do it. You see, I've a married sister,
who’s a decent, hard-working woman, and she
has children. Now, it wouldn’t be nice for those
children if I wrote a book about myself, with piles
of stuff in it that any dirty blackguard could
throw up at them when they were grown up to
decent men and women. No, sir, books live
longer and reach farther than memories, and I
think it just as weii to let the memory of their
bad old uncle, Harry . Power, die out quietly, arid
not have his doings always stuck before them in
print. ‘The Vagabond’ once offered me a few
hundreds for the true history of my life, but I
thought of those little children, and I refused.”
In answer to an inquiry as to whether he didn’t
find life pretty slow now, he said, smiling, “Well,
I’m an old man now, you see. Besides, living up
there (here his thumb pointed Pentridge-wards
over his shoulder) gets you used to living quietly.”
Here he drifted on into reminiscences of Pent-
ridge, and the time when he was chief cook there
—and a good cook he was, so they say, thrifty as
a Chinaman and cleanly as a Scotch housewife.
“Once,” said Power, “I had a dirty devil for an
assistant, who wouldn’t keep his pots clean. He
burned the skilly a couple of times, and I warned
him, for that was bad for them all. A day or two
afterwards I watched him again, and I saw the
copper was dirty. It was bad luck for him. He
put in the water, and when it was on the boil and
he was going to put the meal in, I up with his
heels and sent him in instead. Just so. He cried
a bit after he got out, but it did him good. Of
course, I got into a bit of a row, but I didn’t get
much for it. You see, he sort of deserved it.”
Over another piece of his rough justice he
escaped all punishment. He was in hospital, and
very sick. A couple of larrikins were in, too, just
well enough to make themselves a special and
grievous nuisance. One of them had a concertina.
How he contrived to get it into the gaol hospital
was a mystery, but that he did manage it, the
gaol records concerning Power’s interference with
it and its owner prove. After “lock-up” at
night, the larrikin owner of the squeaking instru-
ment used to play on it, much to his own delight,
but more to the disgust of the others. “ I waited
one night,” said the little grey man, “till ‘lock-
up ’ was over, and the keys placed in guard. I
knew then that, no matter how much row I made,
no one could get into the ward inside a quarter of
an hour. The blackguard began with his squeak-
ing windbag, and a poor sick wretch asked him to
stop. He wouldn’t. So I slipped out of bed, and
took the towel-rollers off the door. I made the
concertina-man take one, and I took the other.
‘Now, my boy,’ says I, ‘you and me’s going to
play a duet, and I hope you’ll like it.’ He made
a devil of a row. When the warders got in, I
was a bit tired myself, but he was in a bad mess,
and his concertina was smashed to smithereens.
He didn't play any more. They had me up, of
course, over the business, but the visiting magis-
trate dismissed the case, saying my conduct
deserved praise rather than punishment. He was
right, too ! ”
“Since I’ve been out, though, I’ve got on
pretty well. Big Clarke is very kind to
me, and wants me to live on one of bis stations
for the rest of my life. But I prefer to knock
about a bit. Sometimes I stay awhile at one of
his places, and sometimes I go to see my sister.
But I have an adventure now and again. Last
time I went to see my sister, I found some sur-
veyors at work on her place, and 1 asked her
what they were doing there. She said they were
surveying it, because someone had made a claim
to it. You see she had no title, but had lived on
it nearly long enough to get possessory title.
My blood was up, and I wasn’t going to see the
sister and the children done out of their bit of
land. So I took my gun and rode out after those
surveyors. I came on them, and ordered them to
clear out. They said they didn’t take orders
from old swagmen. ‘Then, by God,’ says I,
‘ you’ll take orders from me. I’m Harry
Power, the bushranger who always kept his word,
and I give you my word now that, if you ain’t on
your horses and away inside two minutes I’ll shoot
you in your tracks.’ Lord, it was fun to see them.
They dropped their fixings and ran for their horses.
Just to frighten them thoroughly, I rode after
them about 10 miles. Their fixings are at the
sister’s now. They never called for them, and 1
don’t think they will so long as they know I’m
alive!”
If my memory serves, the old man lived long
enough to see his sister get the coveted title.
The A.A.A.S. excursion to Gippsland was,
however, only to be a pleasure-trip, so Harry
Power’s services as a guide were not required, I
never met him again.
STEELE GREY.
It is a coincidence that two celebrated men
—Parnell, the “ Uncrowned King,” and Lopez,
the tyrant of Paraguay, both came to grief over a
woman named O’Shea.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
An English paper gravely informs its
readers that the Government of Victoria saves
.£15,000 by dispensing with 70,000 rabbit-inspectors
and a number of sexagenarians. From which it
would appear that every fourteenth inhabitant, or
thereabouts, was an Inspector of Rabbits at an
annual salary of four shillings or so.
Colemane & Sons’ Euealypte Ex. is the strongest,
A special committee of the U.S. Congress
recently visited Sing Sing prison. When the
lawmakers arrived the prisoners were all in their
cells, but they knew of the distinguished person
who were coming. The great door opened tc
admit the gentlemen, and as the last one stepped
inside and the doors clanged shut, a prisoner
yelled so everybody could hear : “Hands on your
pocketbooks, boys; here comes the Legislature !”
Colemane & Sons’ Vie. Ointment is marvellous.
The British Australasian (London)
apropos the recognition of the “colonial” title of
honourable: —
Lord Ripon will receive proper kudos for the graceful
act, but it must always be remembered that to Lord Car-
iiigton the Empire is indebted for the removal of this last
badge of colonial inferiority. The matter may seem a
trivial one in itself, but it embodies the all-important
principal of the fall equality of Imperial citizenship in all
parts of Her Majesty’s dominions.
Yes, it is clearly the Baron’s work. Let us give
the downy stable-boy all the credit that is his due.
He believes in flinging a bone to a dog. We all
remember his article brazenly telling the ’Ome
authorities to spread the net in sight of the birds.
Titles, he said, were the one thing necessary to
cement the bonds.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


THIS BUTLDIInTG-
—FOE=
Half share,
Quarter share
I
mmm
10s
ss.
First Prize— Value, <£35,000. Annual Rental, £1750.
3ST.B. To
-til® reaUsatiou of Eanfe and Building
* xidered unsaleable by tlie present commercial
Societies’
The Mutual Freehold Property
DISTRIBUTION SOCIETY OF SYDNEY
3441 PRIZES Are issuing 145,000 Shares at £1 each, with no further liability. 3441 PRIZES
_ AII Sydney and Suburban Properties, and largely rent-producing. No unimproved back-blocks or flood-desolated allotments.
s ’^H°;ri T ivr oBß offi T ces and Banking Chambers, Park and Castlereagh Streets, occupied by the City Bank (Castlereagh
Street Branch), and the Mercantile Building Land and Investment Co., Limited, having a rental value of £1750 8
annum.
1 PRIZE of £15,000
8 PRIZES of 10,000
3 PRIZES of £5,000
3 PRIZES of 3,500
10 PRIZES of £l,OOO
9 PRIZES Of 500
10 PRIZES of £250
50 PRIZES of 100
-
100 PRIZES of £5O
100 PRIZES of 35
150 PRIZES of £3O
1000 PRIZES of £lO
*OOO rKliOao of aS5.s
M CHANCES FOB EACH SHARE. 14 CHANCES FOR EACH SHARE.
pply personally, or send Cash, Money Order, Stamps or Cheque (add exchange), and two stamped envelopes for reply.
Bankers : - . CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
th. Sot iLS e tS er ™ ion ot ret,r “ e " tMi,e oUiz ™‘ and •‘•"H*". »<>»■** m win h.. e
For Shareis, Prospectuses and full particulars, apply to
(MELBOURNE CUP DAY).
MANAGER,
O/o E. HOPE ATKINSON, 25 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY ;
or LOCAL AGENTS.
NOTICE to SMALL INVESTORS.
To facilitate the investment of
small sums, and to enable those tvho
might otherwise he debarred to par-
ticipate in the benefits of this distri-
bution, arrangements have been
made for the sale of Half-Shares at
I Os,, and Quarter-Shares at 5 s., for
which certificates will be issued.
m u APPLICATION FORM.
To Manager,
Mutual freehold gropeity §istribution Society of Sydney.
C/o R. HOPE ATKINSON, J.P., 24, 25 and 26 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.
Please send me...; : Share , for which I enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for share and result and £ by
#
Name
Address
Date.
Slate whether Cash, P. 0.0., Postal Note, or Cheque. If by Cheque, include exchange.
“ Bulletin ” Series, 3XTo. 3
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood.
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms” In these “Tales of the Austral Tropics " will be found the
strange romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Axis
tralia. That they are not less true than terrible, I take it upon myself to affirm. That such is far from beiim the case with the
larger proportion of literary manufacture professing to describe Australian life and character, I must distinctly assert “Those
who know seldom write, and those who write don’t know,” remarks the veteran colonist with accentuated emphasis. But this
author’s name is a household word, among bushraen and bookmen from Albany to Thursday Island, from “ The Gulf” to the
Snowy River— *' • ” ’ ‘
“ Alike to him the sea, the shore,
The pen, the bridle and the oar.”
To him, familiar as highways are the midless solitudes of the “Never Never Country ” —he has tempted Desert Sphinx o- lze d
upon gold matrix and opal hoards which gleamed in mockery of the exhausted wanderer. Trusted for dear life in iiresV »dades
to a steady eye and a true rifle. Listened in a canoe on the Coral Sea to the moaning of the approaching tempest ? ‘
Long a leading actor upon Dame Nature’s stage, he has turned scene-painter for the nonce, and limned with lifelike
effect the drama of the Waste. »
11 Bolk Bolup k wood,” Albury, N.S Wales, Nov. 10, 1892.
' — :—; '
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,"
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy,
Ihe Bulletin favours—•
A Republican Form oi Government.
One Person, one Vote.
(Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education,
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
bystem.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue jA bank-notes to be a
r btate monopoly.
ihe direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance. -
Ihe entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
slop of Land.
The Referendum.
Ihe Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
Ihe public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin,
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper- ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
Ihe Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its exam pie
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily anc
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin,
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress ; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth
power, and privilege—the direct cause of halt the
misery which now alflicts British humanity
Against the clauns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aeainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise o :
any human authority which has not been grantee
by the people over whom it is exercised. The
Bullbitin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bnshman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps tho strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The'Bul-
letin is the one most frequently rein ailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Businas comm nnicotians to be addressed to
William Maclroij, Managing Director, to whom
all remit (awes arc payable. Kdjtorinl e.nmmuni-
ations to be addressed'.to 4. F. AkcHIBALU


Box 1034, <i.r.O.
Tt>lei>iionc »!'}.
W. MAMMATT & SONS
Silver and
OX7
MANUFACTURERS OE
Electro-plated Goods
■ —AND —
Ti
}' EVERY
L.EE'T
' DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Slxotitv Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collars Street, MELBOURNE.
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST 7 OF SIX ; ”
Tales of tlie Austral Tropics,
BY
ERKEST
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sidney.
Scale of* A.d.vertising’
-IN-
U
THE bulletin;
Single 'Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
X »eruiovun uu-r ••• ••• • •• -* w
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance
6s. per inch per insertion,
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „ „
25 ~ ~ ~
10s. per inch per insertion,
nett.
nett.
Sole Agents for HRNliif HEATH-
Os. <ocaL.
ď
(jENRY ([EATtf#
trade mark
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
UPario® 9s. «i<3L
fd
jV Splendid Hut for Boating, yaolitinir, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6”ligrtS shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest f lied
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the textuie of vdvf t.
<3-, SMITH Sz SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ltd}' Look Out ton
“THE LAST OF SlX:’'
Tales of the Austral Tiopics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
fd
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery MercHant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Keqnisites.
Proprietor of fixes “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Worka.
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
sf
ds
dsf
Knowles’ Steam Tumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT!
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip —ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be —a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duff’s or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DR APER Y, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
FoY never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
{Near HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WynyardL Square, SYDKTE'ST.
[Established over, a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. K ACCOM MOD ALTON UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
StST' Terms—Me, sd. per l»ay. Walter Sidney of Newcastle), Prop. ”
PRIVATE HOSPITAL,
ZE3IOU-S©,
MILSON’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Eeudent Medical Officer- Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, MH O S., Eng., ete.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical
Officer, Brisbane, eto.
sxpxmissroni} nunsiiffa statf.
Terms Strictly Moderate—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, eto.
For Medical, Surgical and Gynaecological Crises.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
“ THB BULLETIN ” SERIES, Na 3,
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
