

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS » T 5 EACH.
DECEMBER HANDICAP, CANTERBURY, DECEMBER 2nd 4000 5 Each.
SUMMER CUP, R AND WICK, • DECEMBER 26th .... 10 > 00 ° @ 3 Each.
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland,
XS. ?a. WATK.IHTS Cs<C>-,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR— *
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Heqnisites,
’■ EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
f
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PUKE COCOA and EXTRACT of MAET.
A
30
’4
o
o
o
<RAc^asocK>
o
o
<?
o
•■fc
?s
V
o
K, A. Hervcy, Agent, 28 I’Ut-sl . Sydney.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY, -
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
I^TOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
i ™ cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
2
•.
o*
f
jrMg
i
e
t
-a? 1 ®"
Tlxo Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
-THE-
M.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
MILK
CKEAM ..
ICE
ICI’TTEU
FISH
CAME
I’OllUtV
IMSTKI, Ac.
(LIMITED)
FOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Begd.
Colonial, English, N.E., American.
The Choicest Sorts,
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
S3T" The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us ta FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,!
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Ist July, 1893.
11. PATESON,
Manager.
ƒ
" I - . "" .11 . , 1 *...
jj w C. HOIVARD.
Sol- Agents to New Souto Waiea for Mentors. Clayton axxd. Shuttleworto.
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS.
r
uwouQS
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable, Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
PortablebSteam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines'; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
•r • •
WWW
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., ETC.
Full Catalogues of Engines,' Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on applicati
3E=»itt Street;, Sydney.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. m
J. & C. Howard, 280 J
The Bulletin
Yol. 13.—N0. 718. J
[Saturday, November-18, 1893.
Eegislered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlie Briglitoix South Wales.
A moat Comfortable High-olass Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Pishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK .
XkdCxra. KO-a -fVI 1 -TNT S "I* !E3 Jtrt. .... 3E*ac*oi>rxot;ir©as«
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
f
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia— l*. J. Miao'Wllliam, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TRADE MARK
V
M
RECiSTEHED.
A Practical Optician employed on the premises for Oaves of Compound Astigmatism.
Agents of the late Firm supplied with “ Spscutn® ” Goods at Reduced Prices
All Rights and Trade-Marks covered. Unauthorised persons are hereby cautioned against «hy infringement of same.
FRED. C. PASSAU,
OCULIST OPTICIAN, 494 George Street, SYDNEY
BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4.6 per Pair. Oculists- Prescriptions executed in Dioptric measure.
Medical.
The First Step
FOB
NERVOUS MEN
KST APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. TIL. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
SDurioua.
ATKINSON'S
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over aa the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANOTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
. strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, Xiondon.
CAUTION I —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose ”
and address in lull.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AUTD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. BIDOE’S ROY Ala FOOD MILES
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Miscellaneous.
Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Y»rice 9s. 6d.
(Jewry vjEATifS
TRADE MAB®
J*OZT K
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
T*rice 9s. Oc3L,
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis
ionics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n<sglig«i shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
C 3-. H. SMITH & SO3XT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
GIOHD
VHA/V
“Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Kush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each
by post, 2/- Mysteriei
Court of Loudon, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
„ . Marriage Life and Rela-
fcions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People ; The Wife s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote post
free 76. Mrs. Besant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1 2
Aristotle, complete. 3/6, post if. Maria Monk, 1/6, post
1,9. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should be by
Annie Besant, 1/-, by post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading’
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship
J /oy e , Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0.. 1/6
The Silent Friend,” byi Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Holliok, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt price 5/-
manhood.
' “*TWU
fUCORQV
E.SSE** c£ °f n F £■
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
S Essence of Life restores Health and
strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for ,71s. Freight
lnvelopr PamphktS frCe ° >l reCcipt 0/ Yawped addressed
Agents for Australasia—Perry ,(: Co.. 73 Gertrude
Street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE. ' Gertrude,
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
T
ƒ
3E3 A L ID KT E s 8
Cured and Prevented with
“ E 3 -A. XT HOn 3XT.«»
It removes the cause, viz.; Congestion of the Follicles
and proVides food for the hair. 5/- per Bottle-. '
HAIR,
Whiskers, Eyebrows, «te»,
Quickly resume their own rich natural
colour with
Horn’s “Acesma,”
NOn S°? 8 ’ free from grease.and
smell, does not stain the skin.
8/6 and 5/,
WWRFLUOUB HAIR
Complete!}’ destroyed with
“Horn’s Hair Solvent ’(lleg.)
Leaves no mark.
8,6 and 5/. per BbltllV
iestimonials from Medical Men, Clermi.
men, and analytical reports and ms*
7o l T h t hOU , l, ‘- tLTwJIZ
vmce the most sceptical. Prepared by
D T r -°- E- Horn, Hair Specialist,
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng
To be obtained of Felton, Grimwade and Co Mel ban
and the New Zealand Drug Co., Wellington Chris chnreh’
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd,,Svdnevnnri w . urch,
or for 1/6 extra from the Proprietor. A 6 ’
.t.™!'" H ““ HA “" ‘‘‘‘"“'““Wto i» S
f
NERVOUS MEN.
&
&
ft
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BELTrt'
A / ,y/\V v-v> , _v\. -<^v
a
m
\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOE ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer, it has great improvements over all other
.belts. We are willing to furnish those belts oh
30 -taria.!,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three months!
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people Ihroughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address ;-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney. v!
ƒ
PATENT
PILLS.
sR
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for . bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them oarry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders!
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
he found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole musctilar system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pius
stand unrivalled. They are the bekt ever offered to tne
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive tne
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcuam s cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 v 'uls), and a®
2a. 9d.< (treble quantity). ... _
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine. Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—-Full directions are given with eaeb-box.
r
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Price—One Shilling.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNRY, N.S.W.)
Unlqae Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,^
Premier Australian Literary journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent anil dis
tinctive Australian national Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of Stat
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection agains
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The chea]
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and th
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituehcy.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility..
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers o
the day. It is only the remainder that is fount
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artist!
cally-condensed columns all matter that is nob
of general human interest. ThK Bulletin was
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spenl
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. I hey are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely ntm-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
trahan journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to tlie fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter-
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public. ,
SPECIAL NOTICE. ’
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial conimuni-
ajions tg be.addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
J
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guaranies the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints /
and the last edit ion will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should nbt fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Paijis in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of ray Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
test them free,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be yon ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a. in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday— 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
GMSBOIXTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, daring a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXJNTG IMCIESIKr
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen; impure blood;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
D Ft- GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel.
m
HBI
"Jftfl (Sydney (Qoffee Palace” (Hotel,
Sie John Young’s Cebsgent,
lower Domain, Sydney, Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
single room.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15a
With Board ... 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OP ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per Week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
ItliSdtllTlVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
overlooki m> Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing-residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
A’ith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening’. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
IRuniJiTKI.V IMTICK.
Proprietors; ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
■W. C- ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders hy post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
3STo Cur e, TNT o lE* ay.
mHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
- 1 - cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently eure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
Medical.
f
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from all farts of the world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
Qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’*
-Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Read the letters:"
From Australia.
| Mr. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows;
.“To W. H. Soul h 00., (Agents for Dr.
.Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 156 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs: —I am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
the belt as soon as it isplacedon his body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a g r ® a t
deal, since! have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and!
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _ „ -
' From America.
Mb. J. W. Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Cham Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. 1 fell 18 feet on mv back,
and although I got up as i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled me evlr since until I tried your belt. For one year
now I have felt as / used to at so.
S3-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write for free descriptive _ Pamphlet No. 2, ana
please metuioh this paper when you address: y?. H. fcioui &
158 Pitt St., Sydney; Elliott Bros., Brisbane; or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co. ? San Fkancisco, U. o. A.
Deafness Completely Cured, ! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, Lendon, S.W.
Woman’s Salvation.
The Greatest Discovery of the Age! Hi-s Treatise posted
FREE, undercover. Write. Prof. RO-BT. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
I7IN-GLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DATS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding- alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £O3 and £O6.
Combination Ticket, £62 10a. and <£s7 1 -a. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O l<*s. !»d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (-vimoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREHK. W. JACKSON', Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent
Miscellaneous.
v.o.
CROMARTY
Whista:
Greenlees brothers
QIASCOSUOWIONAND
ARCYLESHIRE
v.o,
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOE A lOUSIACH Bit
Capilla.rizie!
Tim Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CRAIG A AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
‘THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 682 George Street, Sydney.
&T NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


Business Announcements.
ms
e
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND beautifying
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Sc,
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OB HARD WATEB,
More effectually than any other preparation.
It is delightfully Coouino and jßefreshing if applied to
the Face or Hands after being ont in the Sun, Tennis-
playing. Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. &2s. 6d. Sole Makers:
M. BEETHAM & SON, Chemists. Cheltenham. England..
ARP
FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
ANUFACTITRjE
ATS
merger^
n
'MPm
PRIDOY’S
HATS
at once
proclaim
THE
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Bo not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W" orld-renowned.!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lasaetter’s),
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
OME
aifgfj
-B.OBST
®6WINS
W°Rl©
tH e
Before purchasing any other
SSND FOR CIRCULAR OT ask yOUt
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
/
I
HOME
/»
f
JMohnston&gi.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
» 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BAKER’S ENGLISH SHEFFIELD RAZOR.
It recommends itself. Try one. «/- each, post free throughout Australasia.
W. JNO. BAKER, CUTLER, 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWTON & LAMB.
High-class Artistic Furniture.
•> • • p%7t00/ ,0 ~ \-- >- - •> ■ >
; " / 7^7'
..I- -V? r - U <- 1
dl's ■ ._r»
W,. I 4<r O J /r 7 '-w <•-==? *
/.
f . *
- . «■
,sr-;
-s N >/ _=? V
7s
' £
£ J=*: 7. >£• *
s' ?
> 7
-iik-sloL*^
=PIWMj?
‘a=«^s.'
F.n
R ’ -T-r--'
J'rVi*
ttV siS il*
FASHIONABLE DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, elegantly upholstered jn rich Tapestry
and Plush, Cotaline and Plush, etc., £3 10s., ,£lO 10s , ill 10s., JEI6 10s., i2l,
and upwards.
Cabinets, Overmantels, Cheifonier Whatnots, Canterburys, Davenports, Sutherland,
and Occasional Occasional Chairs, Wall Mirrens and Brackets, etc., etc.,
at Lowest Prices.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limiteci,
Engineers and General > Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stoam 3ES m. & e s :. Boilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tar Write us .with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Medical.
Teeth.-a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:—
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACK E TT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
pose free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
*
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, Ac.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
PELDHEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
P. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
SNAKEBITE ANTIDOTE POCKET CASES
(Made of Strong Polished Metal, lined with
Silk Velvet).
For Dr. MUELLER’S suc-
cessful treatment of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
jection of strychnine, con-
taining patent poison
sucker, best hypodermic
syringe, two hypodermic
needles, glass mortar and
pestle, two tubes of strych-
nine tabloids, which will
keep for years, and fold
DIRECTIONS FOB USE.
Price, complete, £l— Postage paid to all parts of
Australia.
L- BRUOK, 13 Oastlereagh-st., Sydney
:
Banking.
"THE- "
Bank of IFew Zealand*
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Iravellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Business An tiouncements.
Cafe
MARTIN
Moore
and Pitt Sts.,
i]
[( “City Dinner” )]
(A Specialty). -i
MARTIN
CHAMBERS,
opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY,
First-class Grill Room & Restaurant
The Coolest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
in Sydney.
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-class Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE and TABLE SERVICED
N.B.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready—l/- to s}/C.
Public Banquets. Private Pinners. Smoke Concerts r
For Estimates, apply H. GARDNER, Manager.
The OALIGRAPH Writing MacHne]
'
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Oaligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the valigraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Oaligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Oaligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street ; Hobart, J. Waleh & Sons.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney .
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Board, and Residence at Moderate CHargea.
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
I
T
i
INCLUSIVE or SEPARATE TARIFF, AS DESIRED .
Luncheon, d la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D'Hqte, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s.
Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may alvvays»rely upon
< tting a First-class Meal.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 13—N0.718,
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1893.
?»:«•, 6d.
Km
Interfs
"toCAU
(i
w
wx
/ a.
E
WSSS^£
f
POLITICAL CATALEPSY.
PROFESSOR CAUCUS (after the N.S.W. Labour-Electoral Conference) : “You see, I have him now completely under my control. I dance on his chest, like this, and he
supports me. His eyes, you observe, are wide open. I shall now proceed to make him swaller whatever I choose and he can’t help himself.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
■By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not •open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor ivill carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But ice desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 3J. Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal ; -The Standard and Diggers’
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:- B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will he sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1893.
An Inconvertible-Paper Bill.
That Banking Bill, of which New South
Wales has been badly in want for many
years past, has at last made its appearance.
Or rather, to be more accurate, it has
altogether failed to make its appearance,
and an entirely different measure —the sort
of measure which might reasonably be
expected from a Government whose feti§h is
not Public Safety, but Private Enterprise—
has turned up in its stead. The new
measure leaves most of the ancient evils just
where they were, without even the pretence
of an attempt to make them any better. It
offers a hollow show of alleviating one or
two minor weaknesses, but the show is so
hollow that it leaves them also pretty much
in their old position. And, by way of some
semblance of originality, it invents one or
two new evils with which the province has
not hitherto been afflicted. The Bibbs
Cabinet, unlike many others which New
South Wales can remember, has generally—
though not always the courage of its
opinions ; that is to say, it has the courage
of almost all its bad opinions and of a few of
its good ones. The Banking Bill belongs
distinctly to the former category.
• # #
The worst evil of the New South Wales
financial system is that anybody, in that
distressful province, can be a bank. He can
be, in his own person, the shareholders,
board of directors, manager, auditor, and
everything ; he can say that there is a large
and influential proprietary, and a paid-up
capital of £lOO,OOO or seven millions, when
there is not enough to pay the office rent;
he can lie about the reserve fund, the securi-
ties, and everything else as he pleases ; and
he can cajole deposits out of the credulous,
weak-minded public by false pretences and
the assurance of 12 per cent, interest just as
far as circumstances permit. So long as he
can get in new deposits with which to pay
the interest on the old ones, and until he
actually goes bankrupt, nobody can interfere
for the public protection—that is to say, no
one is allowed to interfere until it is too late
to be of any possible service. Premier Bibbs’
Bill leaves this.hideous fraud just where it
was, and as soon as the public forgets the
past—which it has done regularly for 30
years b i< k, in the brief interval between two
Meibom iu Cups—all the fraudulentjbankers
may si a t their swindles over again, no one
hindering them.
» # *
Further, the Bill takes no cognisance of
that weird item which constitutes most of
the assets in the accounts of every “ legiti-
mate ” institution, and which generally
reads, “ Bills receivable and all other
amounts due to the bank, £8,000,000,” or
whatever the sum may be. There is no pro-
vision for dividing up this utterly incom-
prehensible mass of alleged securities, and
showing how much consists of discounts,
loans on mortgage, loans on other securities,
and loans on no security at all. There is no
provision for State audit, for the investment
of a portion of the reserve in Government
securities so that it, at all events, will be
tangible and realisable, for penalising direc-
tors who grant overdrafts to themselves, for
the establishment of a State Bank and a
State note issue—for anything, in fact, which
the country really wants. As a means of
assisting the banks the Bill promises to be
reasonably effective ; as a means of assisting
anybody else it doesn’t profess to be any-
thing save utter failure.
• * #
The leading feature of the scheme is that,
in future, banks are to be required to pay
gold for their notes in Sydney only ; over
all the rest of the province paper will be a
permanent legal tender. The first result of
this proviso will be that no gold need be
kept anywhere except in Sydney ; over all
the rest of the country a bag of small change
and a roll of I O U’s will answer all require-
ments. Therefore, about one-half the former
gold reserve will serve the purpose of any
bank with a fairly extensive country
connection, for, to all intents and pur-
poses, half the circulation will be irre
deemable. To the man out in the
far West with a few notes in his
possession, the fact that they are payable in
Sydney—which is distant, perhaps, two days’
journey and could only be reached by the
expenditure of nearly all his little capital in
travelling expenses —would be just as much
to the point as if they were payable at the
top of the Himalayas. I herefore, so far as
50 per cent, or, perhaps, more of their
circulation is concerned, the banks get all
the benefits of a permanent suspension of
payments without any of its disadvantages.
Also the currency of all the country districts
is made absolutely dependent on the solvency
of certain private speculators, a large number
of whom recently went “broke,” and have
since been allowed to remain broke by
special permission of the Supreme Court.
It is, in fact, to consist largely of the un-
secured I O U’s of certain uncertificated in-
solvents. Considering the loud and long
war-whoop about the alleged “ restoration of
confidence ” this process of compelling the
nation to have confidence by Act of Parlia-
ment seems rather ill-timed. And the
gaudy boast that the “legal tender” pro-
clamation Avould not be renewed because
everything is now on a sound basis comes as
near being a lie as anything well could be
without actually being one.
* • #
The fact that this system is merely an
adaptation of that employed in Great Britain is
no excuse for its existence. The coinage of
hard money is made a State monopoly on the
principle that the State alone should control
the currency of the country, and the issue
of paper-money by private traders who are
under no State supervision, and whose sol-
vency is only guaranteed by themselves, is
an absurd contravention of this principle.
And when the State compels the nation to
accept the unsecured I O U’s of lately-busted
speculators in return for labour or other
commodities, the act is an outrage and next
door to confiscation. At the beginning of
the recent panic—the day the A.J.S. Bank
closed its doors—the notes of two suspected
banks were sold at from 10s. to 15s. in the
£, and this in towns situated less than
60 miles from Sydney. When the next
panic comes, under the new system, the
currency, out in Western towns which are
200 miles or more from Sydney, will pro-
bably sell for Is; or 2s. 6d. in the £, and
paper-money will be sacrificed by the shovel-
ful. Panics come easily, too, under a paper
regime, and they will come more easily still
by reason of the fact that the country has
little faith in its reconstructed banks, and
when it is ordered to have faith in them by
Act of Parliament it will probably have less
of that commodity than ever.
« • »
The Banking Bill contains other mani-
festations of the Government’s paternal care
for the Fat Man’s private enterprise. In
future the banks are to be allowed to issue to
the extent of one-third their paid-up capital
and the whole amount of coin and bullion
held in New South Wales. Under this
proviso the Queensland National, with prac-
tically no capital in the province, can issue
£200,000 worth of notes, or as many of them
as it can keep afloat ; the Commercial of
Australia, also with hardly any capital in
New South Wales, £2,000,000 worth ; and
other banks to enormous amounts. And
they can do this even if they have no coin
reserve at all—they can do it on the strength
of their paid-up capital only, even though the
capital should have been utterly lost. Also,
the Government retains power to enlarge—
though not to diminish—the circulation of
any bank at its alleged discretion. It proposes
that accounts of the coin reserve and note-
issue shall be published monthly, which, as
an index to solvency, sof the very smallest
value—a monthly statement of the bad debts
and the directors’ overdrafts would be of
much more service. And it also provides
that the Government may —not that it shall
—examine the books of any bank, not in
order to ascertain if the reserve-fund is a
myth, or if the directors and their friends
have borrowed all the capital on unsecured
overdraft, or if the securities are of any
value, but only to find out that the alleged
cash on hand—which may have been
borrowed for the occasion—is there, and
that the note-issue is not above the
prescribed limit. As the prescribed limit is
so vast that the country couldn’t absorb any-
thing like the amount of paper authorised,
this latter precaution is about as useful as a
cast-iron proviso against the manager hold-
ing ghost-dances in the front office. These
professed restrictions are the most wildly
humorous feature in this Fat Man’s Banking
Bill. They are suggestive somehow of the
studied moderation of that old-time French
law whereby the seigneur, when he returned
home weary after hunting, was allowed to
kill “ not more than two serfs, that he might
comfort his feet with their warm blood and
bowels.” He wasn’t allowed to kill three
serfs on any account.
Some More “Private Enterprise."
Last Saturday it became known in Sydney that
the Cremorne bore had struck a ten-foot coal-
seam, at a depth of something less than 1000
yards from the surface. The coal is apparently
of excellent quality, but its quality is the
smallest feature of the discovery. The great
feature is the practical demonstration that
Newcastle and Bulli are portions of one and the
same coal-field—that Sydney itself is built over
a coal-basin and may, with no serious stretch
of the imagination, prove itself in the near
future to be another Newcastle. There are
grander possibilities before the Cremorne syndi-
cators than there are before any other gang of
speculators in N.S. Wales—unless it be the
famous Colo Valley electric-power monopoly.
They have one of the largest coal leases south
of the line—a lease that covers all the minerals
underneath Sydney Harbour, Middle Harbour,
the lower Parramatta, and a lot of the ground in
between and as much of those underneath the
adjacent waters of the Pacific as the company
cares to annex. These are matters of certainty,
but it is also seriously alleged that the syndi-
cate has a lien upon Port Hacking, and much
of the country between that inlet and Sydney.
Even leaving these latter possibilities out of the
question, however, it has a good-sized coal-field
all to itself, and, with any reasonable measure of
success, there are more millions in the discovery
than any serious-minded publication would care
to speculate about. And the Private Enter-
prise Government of New South Wales has
dishonestly fooled all these vast deposits away
from the State at a miserable royalty of fid. per
ton, and has actually paid a large sum for the
privilege of being permitted to fool them away !
* * #
It was long ago declared by experts that coal
would be found under the city of Sydney, and
the Government was urged over and over again
to put down an experimental bore, or a series
of bores, with a view to locating the deposits,
and seeing exactly what the country was stuffed
with. If it had done so it could have leased out
these deposits on infinitely better terms than
the fid. per ton royalty which it is to obtain
from the Cremorne syndicate. When the mine
is opened, and the shores of the beautiful har-
bour are disfigured by huge, gaunt poppet-
heads, and its waters are blackened by coal-dust,
it will be possible to supply the city with coal
at something between 2s. 3d. and 3s. per ton
less than can be done by the most-favourably
situated mine in the province. This is not
The Bulletin’s calculation ; the estimates,
the approximate correctness of which is self-
evident, are supplied by persons connected
with the syndicate. It may be safely
assumed, however, that the syndicate has no
idea of supplying coal at 3s. per ton below
present rates ; it is built for business, not for
philanthropy, and such a course would be con-
trary to all the laws of joint-stock enterprise.
It looks forward, rather, to making 3s. a ton
more profit than its competitors, and of this
amount the Government—by conducting its own
prospecting operations so that it would have a
certainty instead of a mere chance to dispose
of, and then offering it by public tender instead
of by secret treaty—could easily have secured
for the State at least a half. But the Govern-
ment obstinately refused to prospect on its own
account, the expense and uncertainty of the
operation being its favourite excuse.
* # •
Nevertheless, when a party of rich men—
some of them very rich men undertook
the work as their own private speculation, it
proceeded at once to stand most of the ex-
pense and take all the risks. The Govern-
ment which flatly declined to spend a small
amount with the prospect that the Treasury
would be repaid a thousand-fold, cheer-
fully spent the same amount when a few
bulbous capitalists were to get all the
profit. The “authorities,” having carefully
given away the Sydney coal deposits, supplied
the syndicate with a Government geologist
to fix the most promising site for the bore, and
also lent the Government boring plant and the
Government officials to work it, and thus paid,
to begin with, a good part of the cost of the
enterprise. Then it paid half the balance—
the expenses of using the plant and the other
etceteras—out of the prospecting-vote. This
latter is the most remarkable feature in the
whole transaction. The prospecting-vote was
intended to assist the poor prospector, not the
rich one. When a promising show was in
danger of collapsing for want of funds to carry
it on until it became self-supporting, the vote
is supposed to furnish relief which will keep
the enterprise from collapse and prevent the
work already done being entirely lost. But
when a gang of rich men, who have obtained
for an infinitesimal fraction of its value what
was potentially and is now actually the
grandest mineral concession in New South
Wales, and to whom the outlay involved is a
matter of the smallest importance, sponge on
this semi-charitable vote merely to save their
own bank-accounts, they commit an act of
abasement which is almost unique. If they
had lived on Government rations which were
meant for the starving “ unemployed,” merely
to save their own grocery bills, they couldn’t
have got down much lower than they now are.
* # •
The report of the Government officials upon
the discovery seems to imply that even they
feel the position requires some apology, and
needs to be explained away a good deal. After
much wild enthusiasm about the value of the
discovery—its value, that is, to the syndicate,
not to the State—the document goes on to say :
The company received for their No. 2 bore aid out of
the prospecting vote at per foot in the actual rate of bor-
ing, they having to defray direct the full cost of all
carriage, fuel, and water required for boring operations.
The State only furnished the costly plant and
all the necessary skilled assistance, and half the
expenses of boring. And the burdened syndi-
cate had actually to supply all water—which,
by the way, had to be fetched a trifle over
eight yards by means of a pipe—and the fuel
and carriage. Which, put into simpler and
more easily understandable -language, means
that it had to hire a man to cart a few small
sundries—the man and the cart not being
charged to the prospecting-vote. Also, as an
additional infliction, it had to pay these things
direct. The awful directness of the payment is
put in as a special hardship—one of those things
that lie like a nightmare on the chest of Enter-
prise—a disability which only the most robust
and courageous speculators could have survived.
And yet the situation would be just as remark-
able if the principal syndicator had got his hair
cut and had nobly paid the sixpence direct,
straight-out, in cash, and with no mental
reservation whatever.
* # *
The Cremorne syndicate will possibly put
down one or two more experimental bores—
with the aid of the Government plant and the
Government officials and, probably, with more
assistance from the prospecting-vote—to further
test the value of its property. While doing
this it will, it is to be seriously feared, have to
keep on paying for its water-supply direct,
unless the cost of the bit of pipe can somehow
or other be charged to the State. Then it will
have to sink two shafts which, under the essen-
tially favourable conditions, can probably be
done for £50,000, and it will have to furnish
the usual plant. Whether it will get any part
of the cost of these things out of the prospect-
ing-vote probably depends upon the intentness
with which the Democratic-party in Parlia-
ment keeps its bilious and unsympathetic eye
on the operations. After that, the Cre-
morne syndicate will probably find itself
one of the richest corporations in this hemi-
sphere. The extra cost of haulage from
a great depth, and the extra outlay in
hauling machinery will certainly not represent
a loss of threepence per ton, and in all proba-
bility will only amount to about three-half-
pence. And this will be compensated many
times over by the saving in railway or sea
freight, the practical monopoly of the Sydney
market, and the fact that the enormous dimen-
sions of its ground will make it, to all intents
and purposes, a permanent investment —one
that will last till Gehenna gets cold, or there-
abouts.
» * *
If a list of all the names of the persons in-
terested in the Cremorne and the Colo Valley
syndicates could be printed, with each name in
letters nine feet long, and hung up in some
conspicuous place for everybody to see,
there would probably be a political revolu-
tion in New South Wales. For if the Govern-
ment (we speak not of the present Ministry,
but of the governmental system) has given
away these two magnificent properties for
nothing beyond the visible terras of the
agreement, then it is such an unspeakably
lavish Government that it is liable, any
day, to give away the whole railway system of
the province to a street mendicant, and to put
the title-deeds of Parliament Houses in the
plate when it goes to church on Sunday,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Judge-made Law.
In Sydney, last week, a man named Williams
was charged with stealing a ring from a local
jeweller, one Martin Simmatt. Williams’
defence was that he had honestly bought the
ring some time ago, at Wagga, and the jury,
after considering the case, found him not guilty.
In other words, they found that the ring was
his own property, and not Mr. Simmatt’s, and
whether they were right or wrong there was
no appeal from their decision. Then comes the
remarkable part of the story :
His Honor said that he had not a shadow of a doubt
that the ring was Mr. Simmatt’s, and directed that it
should be restored to him.
The Bulletin would now like to find out, on
the best legal authority, whether the Judge
can’t be arrested for stealing a diamond ring
from Williams, and whether Simmatt can’t
be gaoled along with him for receiving stolen
property ? The jury had just decided that the
ring was not Simmatt’s, and that decision made
it Williams’ property as definitely as any legal
decision could. The verdict ended the case ;it
took the prisoner out of the dock and took the
matter entirely out of the Judge’s hands.
Therefore, it is difficult to see that his Honor
had any more right to violently confiscate Mr.
Williams’ goods and chattels, and give them
to Mr. Simmatt, than he had to confiscate Mr.
Simmatt’s clothes and award them to Mr. Wil-
liams, and leave an honest ami estimable jewel-
ler in a nude condition on the floor of the court.
If the prisoner had been a prominent solicitor
charged with “faking” a title to £50,000
worth of land, and the jury had returned a
verdict that the title wasn’t “faked,” would
that same Judge, The Bulletin would like to
ask', have ventured, on his own unsupported
opinion—which had nothing whatever to do


with the case—and in defiance of the verdict,
to order that the said £50,000 worth of pro-
perty should be handed over to the plaintiff?
Unless he were a crank or wanted to lose his
judicial billet, he surely wouldn’t. It is appa-
rently only the “common” defendant in low
circumstances who is jumped upon by this kind
of Judge-made law.
The Same Old “ Raid.*
Another raid has just been made in Sydney on
a “ tote ” —one tote—and the advertising police-
man has gained much glory thereby. According
to the law of averages there won’t be another
serious raid now for several weeks, and the
“ cop.” will rest on his laurels in the interval.
This sort of thing is calculated to make the
public feel very ill. The police could capture
fifty proprietors or runners of totes, or betting-
house-keepers, any day in the week (at least,
the present writer could if he were a police-
man), and when the crowd had been duly fined
and had gone back—as they always do—to
their illegal occupation, the force could capture
them over again on a fresh charge next day,
and keep on doing it every day except Sunday,
till the business was utterly and hopelessly
burst up. The theatrical “ raid ” comes round
at such long intervals that each tote-fiend’s
turn doesn’t arrive more than once in eighteen
months on a steady average, and in between
times he follows his unlawful calling with
hardly a semblance of disguise. The raid
can’t be made frequently, in fact, for it
is accompanied with so much pomp and
military strategy that it takes days of pre-
paration, and the force engaged has to rest for
several weeks afterwards. If the common
drunk or the person who uses bad language in
the street were dealt with on the same system
if fie were first carefully surrounded by a large
force, and the adjacent streets guarded to pre-
vent his escape, and he were then rushed by 15
able-bodied officers —he also would only be
captured once in six weeks or so, and all the
rest of the time he would curse on the highway
with impunity. As it is, the policeman simply
seizes him on sight, and if he won’t walk to the
lock-up he is dragged there. And in the same
fashion any officer of ordinary muscle could
seize a little, stunted, sawn-otf tote-runner in
each hand at almost any hour from 9 a.m. till
midnight, and run them in with their tools and
implements of fraud upon them, and then go
straight back and seize two more—if he wanted
to. As he evidently doesn’t want to, the com-
mon inference is that, somehow or other, the
tote-man pays a dividend to the force, while the
common drunk and disorderly does not. The
crowd of “ cronk ” gamblers who infest Sydney
can be dispersed and broken up only by constant
worry—the law has to get matters down so
fine that whenever a greasy man with a vast
nose and a lot of Abyssinian gold jewellery
starts to sell tote-tickets on the pavement or in
a shop in any conspicuous locality, he will be
arrested almost as promptly as if he had
camped on the pavement with nothing on.
And there is no earthly reason why he shouldn’t
be —if the police were so inclined.
Federation as a Partial Whitewash.
“ The Future of Australia,” a somewhat large
subject, has been airily discussed by Isaacs,
M.L.A., at a meeting of South Melbourne
natives. And Isaacs, like most other Vic-
torians who have anything to say, is loud in
advocating Federation as the first step towards
an orthodox “great and glorious future,” etc.
Admitting that there are” urgent reasons why
Victoria should wish to merge into a United
Australia, it must also be admitted that Isaacs,
the Jonah of the Patterson Ministry, could
show strong cause for Australia to reject Vic-
torian overtures at the present time. The
policy of the continent at large should be to
declare Victoria an infected province until its
moral character has been renovated and its
reputation restored. The sins of Melbourne
are a matter of notoriety abroad. Every mail-
boat brings a batch of “colonials” who can
bear humiliating w itness to British and Ameri-
can opinion of the “ Queen City” and its little
ways. Many of them do not bear witness.
They remain as silent as the local press con-
cerning the nasty things said about the land-
boom fraternity in business circles beyond the
sea. But the returned voyageurs, who owe no
allegiance to Fat Man, are talking freely
enough. “People used to laugh when I told
them I was from Melbourne, and ask me
whether the new Premier and Speaker were
anything like the last ones,” is the candid
admission of a would-be importer, who recently
went “home” with wild ideas of getting un-
limited credit. “They wouldn’t talk about
business except for cash —not with Melbourne,”
says this authority. Rough particulars of the
Davies prosecution scandal are to be more
easily picked up in London or Glasgow than in
some of the drowsy provincial towns of Vic-
toria, and the sentiments expressed over there
are uncomplimentary alike to the land-boomers
who have kept out of gaol and to the public
who nave failed to insist on a cleansing of the
politico-financial stable. Fortunately, a broad
distinction is made between Melbourne and the
rest of Australia. A sudden interest in the
geography of the new world has been
excited by the doings of the land-boom
notabilities. The representative Southern
citizen who states that Australia is all one and
the same place in foreign estimation, and lays
stress upon the “ brotherhood ” cry from the
box seat of a Mayor’s luncheon-table, is merely
seeking to dodge the solemn truth. Federation
these times would mean tainting the Continent
with Victoria’s foulness, and a general taking-
over of the bulk of Victoria’s stink. Isolation
would be the best thing that could happen to
the Cabbage Garden just now. If it were
denounced as a plague-spot, and officially apolo-
gised for in a haughty manner by the neigh-
bouring countries, the honest portion of the
population might at last perceive the folly of
not making an effort to stamp out their disease.
Chain-Gang Politics.
The New South Wales Labour Electoral Con-
ference has decided, amidst applause, that every
Labour candidate must assure his supporters at
the ensuing election that he can only give them
aplatonicopinion in favour of or against the fiscal
or any other question, and is to be bound by the
decision of the caucus of the party in Parlia-
ment, and vote as the majority in caucus
decides. Tins means the loss of 125 possible
seats to the Labour-party. In this way : Every
constituency has at least one burning question
which the inhabitants will not submit to any
caucus whatever. Here are 125 constituencies
with 125 burning questions at least, a proposal
to submit any one of which to any caucus
whatsoever, will seal the doom of the candidate
who tries it on. There must then always be
one essential question which the candidate must
answer to the satisfaction of the majority of his
constituents. These questions range from loc’al-
option to a bridge, or a road in Smith’s
Curse electorate, from a breakwater to the
socialisation of industry. On that one question
he must be solid, or he must go down. And
under the new regulation the candidate can’t
be solid. He can only be a modified American
candidate and observe—“ These are my senti-
ments, and if they don’t suit the majority of
the caucus they can be altered.” He will not
be the representative of the constituency, but
of the caucus. But the candidate who’ll do all
this is not yet invented. If honest, he will
boldly declare his opinion, and stand or fall by
it. If otherwise, he’ll be too cute to take the
risk. The freak who would deliberately expect
a constituency to elect him as its representative
and tell them he didn’t know how he was going
to vote on any given subject, but would con-
sult his solicitor, or his confessor, or his caucus,
or anybody else, has not yet put in an appear-
ance here below. He would be invaluable
in a museum, but out of place in real life.
A hard-and-fast general understanding on a
strictly defined policy, with perfect freedom on
other questions, is, it ought now to be plain, the
only workable Parliamentary plan, and any at-
tempt to leg iron or handcuff the candidate will
only tend to secure his defeat. If the labour-
candidate comes forward metaphorically in
hobbles and leg-irons, with a padlock on his
mouth, and the key in possession of someone,
with “beware of the dog, stand off the grass,
and trespassers will be prosecuted,” written
all over him, there is no sane constituency to
elect him.
The Poor Absentee Landlord.
The Labour Conference held last week at
Sydney—after frantic struggles and dissensions
between the Socialists and the Single-tax end
of the party, and the third section which was
neither Socialist nor Single-tax—succeeded in
fixing up its Land-tax policy on about the most
unsatisfactory basis conceivable. Its decision
—which is supposed to guide the future move-
ments of the Labour-party in Parliament—is
that all land is to be levied upon to exactly the
same percentage of its unimproved value. It
is to rain alike on the just and on the unjust.
The working farmer, who is the mainstay of
the country, is to be taxed just as heavily as
the speculator who holds great tracts of the
earth’s surface merely for the purpose of block-
ing settlement and retarding the progress of
the nation. Also he is to be taxed just as
heavily as the English land-holding corporation,
or the absentee who rack-rents his Australian
tenants that he may raise the money with
which to skirmish for a title in London.
A land-tax on this basis will do nothing
to suppress the absentee, for as the tax
is to fall equally on him and on the man
who is not absent, the former has no induce-
ment to amend the evil of his ways, and cease
taking his income out of the country. It will
do nothing, either, to diminish the accumulation
of big estates. If the big estates are taxed on a
much heavier scale than the smaller ones, then
they will presently be cut up and sold in small
lots to avoid the additional impost; but when
they are placed both on the same level things
will remain very much as they are. Also, there
is to be no difference made betw’een the man
who cultivates his own little farm, and the one
who lets out his land and lives by sweating the
cultivator. It is a primitive and clumsy device
in all its aspects. The country wants a gradu-
ated tax which will bear lightly on the small
and generally impoverished selector; which
will bear more heavily on the large farmer ;
more heavily still on the incipient “ squire ”
the man who lets his property and lives
on rents; and which will come with a dull,
sickening thud on the land-grabber who neither
cultivates his land nor allows it to be
cultivated —the boomer who is only “ waiting
for a rise and which will pile a crushing load
on the man who adds absenteeism to his other
sins. According to the programme of the
Labour Conference, however, it will be impos-
sible to wipe out the absentee landlord without
wiping out the selector also, and as the Con-
ference doesn’t seriously propose to tax the
selector out of existence, the absentee is to go
on just as usual !
The U.S. Panic.
The Sydney Telegraph offers an altogether
new slab of logic to account for the recent com-
mercial disasters in the United States. The
Democratic party in that country came into
power—according to the unsupported whoop of
the Telegraph— to establish Freetrade. So
far, however, it hasn’t even begun to attempt to
establish Freetrade, and President Cleveland’s
answer to the congratulations of the New
South Wales Freetraders still shows no sign of
coming to hand. The Democratic Party, in
fact, merely promised some vague and unspeci-
fied alteration in—not the abolition of—the
tariff, but even the suspicion of a move in the
direction of Freetrade created a ruinous panic
throughout the Union—such a panic as the
country has not seen for many years. And
now the State elections show that the Republi-
can high-tariff men are fast coming back to
power, and it is on the cards that M‘Kinley,
the author of the highest tariff of all, will be
the next President of the United States. The
/Telegraph’s new slab of logic comes in here ;
But, even if it were true that the proposed repeal of the
M‘Kinley Act has brought about the universal smash of
industries and stagnation of business charged to it, that
would show the pasteboard character of the protective
edifice. The few industries that can be subsid sed by the
protective tariff system have surety been fed fat in the
United States. And now, according to Protectionist
showing, they are not able to stand alone. The Protec-
tionists, in claiming that the threatened withdrawal of
tariff support is the cause of an all-round collapse of
American industries, proclain the uselessness of trying to
make things stand alone that are not naturally capable of
doing so.
In other words, if an industry, after a long
period of Protection, can’t stand Freetrade
without dying of it, then Protection is no good.
Which is practically the same as saying that if
a man, after being alive for many years, can’t
stand killing without being dead as a conse-
quence, life isn’t of any account. Or, to put it
another way, if the importing industry, after
many years of prosperity under Freetrade, can’t
stand a spell of Protection without going bung,
then Freetrade is a dead failure. Or again, if
Britain, after keeping off invasion for centuries
by means of its great navy, can’t keep com-
mand of the sea now without any navy
at all, then a navy, as a means of keeping
the sea, is a dead failure and ought to be
given up. It is the favourite Freetrade lie that
Protection is only meant as a temporary device
to build up industries till they can live under
Freetrade, and if the industries can’t live under
Freetrade, then Protection is a failure. But
Protection is really meant to last until there are
no more cheap labour races on the face of the
earth, and the world has attained something
like a common standard of wages. And if that
result is never attained, then it is meant to last
till the end of the world, and longer if
necessary.
London Weekly Bulletin is about the only
English paper which has the courage to describe
the Matabele war as the mercenary, unprin-
cipled, cold-blooded, stock-exchange wilful
murder which it really is. The W.B. acknow-
ledges, in fact, that England wants Lobengula’s
land and gold-mines, and that it is necessary to
butcher him and his people to get them :
Much as I love the nijrßer theorefcally- I wish dear
old Lobengula were as dead as he will shortly be, whether
from the assegais of his own people, or from the bullets
of one or other of the Maxim-Westons now prepared and
ready for him at Victoria or Salisbury. Really, Mr.
Rhodes is a born genius. Don’t we wish we had some-
body like him in England to look after us all ? He has
schemed with the Chartered crowd—a very funny lot,
take them altogether (I wouldn’t care to trust a single
one of them further than I could see) and Sir Henry
Loch —and no doubt we shall soon see a very big deal.
Sir Henry Loch is no fool (I wonder if he lemembeis my
ballyragging him over the swindling Government taxes
on Welsh gold mines a few years ago), and must see
that the nigger has got to go. He will only go one way:
“A dead nigger is a good nigger.” Directly the fun
begins, Chartered shares and shares of everything
Johannesburg or South African will mount up skyhigh.
And the sooner Le Roi begins the music the sooner it will
be over. A dozen volleys from the machine guns, and
Lobenqula’s country is ours (or rather the Chartered
Company’s) and Lobengula will never again be heard of.
At present, or rather till a month ago, when he
refused Chartered pay, he has been passing his time in
drinking Perrier-Jouet of the very sweetest brands
out of a tin pannikin in the company of his black
harem and Indunas. He isn’t half the man that
Cbtbwayo was, and the very first battle he will be
killed or kill himself. All the Chartered Company-
wants is a little more money to go on with and a few
more good shots. There are men at Victoria or Salisbury,
not mannikins, as at Johannesburg (begging the pardons
of some of them). Once Lobengula’s reign of terror is
ended—this disgusting brute’s favourite pastime is to
make men or women hold their arms out, when the hands
are lopped off—and the niggers now under his sway will
be only too ready to do what they are told, and trust in
the white man. Lobengula owns something like a million
oxen, it is said, and these will belong to the Chartered the
day after the battle. The whole of his domains will be
annexed, and English farmers—together with our 75,000
army of unemployed—can find a famous country and a
famous climate. Quite different to the loathsome brick-
coloured veldt; there is plenty of green grass, and any
number of rivers, where the old beast keeps his throne.
+.
Dear Bulletin, —In New South Wales there
is every facility for a State monopoly of the
liquor-traffic. Leaving out illicit distillation
and adulteration—matters of police supervision
—there is but one spirit-factory that on
Clarence River. The vineyards are allowed to
distil for their own use in fortifying wine,
not for sale. The Clarence spirits as well as
those imported and bonded are now under
Govt, lock and key, the quantity and quality are
entered in Govt, books, and of the retail price
fully 80 per cent, goes to the State for duty
and licence. Consequently, by monopolising the
trade, the State would only claim a little more of
the money spent, but without additional cost
or trouble. The liquor could be retailed on
the Norwegian or Swedish system. The State
would thus, in addition to the present duty,
claim the profits on which the brewer now goes
to Europe and the publican’s wife shakes a leg
at Govt. House, Then there would be an
indirect gain, as much of the crime, lunacy,
and misery now attributed to the grog really
arises from vile adulteration. Beer could also
be easily dealt with, for the trade is in few
hands and confined to large centres where
supervision would be easy. There would be
difficulty in the case of wine, but is it desirable
to put down'wine-drinking ? Wine-drinking
nations are notedly sober. Thus, my solution
of the drink problem would be: freetrade in
wine : a State monopoly of manufacture, im-
portation, and i ale of beer and spirits.—V.
Deterred.
f
E.D.
Answers to Correspondents.
So notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Justice ” (Northcote): (1) It was never pub-
lished in pamphlet form, but was suppressed and garbled
as far as possible by the authorities and press. (2) Ditto
re the case against the informer, which was squashed by
officials who actually contributed to the cost of getting
him out of the province. The police, as The Bulletin
indicated at the time, helped to compound the felony...
“T.y.’’: It takes you an awful time to get to the climax,
and it’s the-poorest climax on record when got t 0....
“Coro”; (1) Let the horaoeopathists get a hospital cl
their own. (2) So far as can be seen by heretics, homoeo-
pathy, as ordinarily practised, only tends to show with
how little medicine a man can get through the world. II
one has lung-inflammation, it soothes his imagination to
have a fiery blister on his chest, instead of taking thres
times daily one drop of water out of a bucket in which a
fortieth of a grain of something or other has been dis-
solved . ..“H.P.8.”: Thanks; hut have already dealt
with the question ...“Earliest Subscriber” (Melb.):
Must have miscarried in post “Visitor” was
quite a fair word. You gratuitously assume that every
midnight visitor to a house is a burglar. Why, only the
other night, in Sydney, a policeman who had found the
front door of a house open walked right upstairs and
awakened all the inmates. Surely that policeman was a
“visitor?” Vnur jibe that while few Victorians guessed
correctly, many of the descendants of the first “visitors”
to Botany Bay intuitively found “burglar”and “ visitor”
to be synonymous is a neat piece of leg-irony....
“Pasquin” (M.L.): No, another man. Will write you.
“Strafford L.” : Yes —nothing new under the sun
“R.S.D.”: They utterly lack point. As to suggesting
the direction which should be taken—yon might as well
ask one now to re animate the dead.... “ Wurley ” : But
why don’t you boil it down?... Zabastes”: Why don’t
they show in Sydney ? They might as well perform in
Rookwood cemetery as in Parramatta.... “ J.H.” (Melb.):
Letter too general. Send us a dozen lines of something
specific “J. B. Chrystal ” : This paper doesn’t “ eter-
nally blow about its high sense of fair play,” but merely
leaves the public to size it up. As to The Bulletin
“airing its opinions on the Mercantile case while sub
judice,’’ it has no opinions on the Mercantile case, except
that Davies and Millidge, who claim to be innocent, ought
to stand their trial like men before a Supreme Court
judge and jury “ M.J.S.” (H., Vic.): Sorry to say no
room for beginners. We try to get the finished article
“Carolus”: If you are prepared to suppress opium-
production in Victoria you will, presumably, be prepared,
as an alcohol-prohibitionist, to root up' the Victorian
vineyards. The principle is exactly the same in both
cases—“L.M.M.”: Excellent . “ 0.H.” : Verses in
Yankee dialect and with Pawnee-knife illustrations are
out of place in this country “Kloe”: Not a story,
only the material for a pretty story. That is not enough.
There is material for a story in everything. If you are
clever enough you can make a novel out of a cigar-end
“ A. R.E.”: You say, “ What a sickening spectacle is a
divorced man or woman, and what caused it?” Well,
very likely the fact that one of the pair isn’t as young as
he or she was had something to do with it. Just you
read Max Nordau’s “Conventional Lies of our Civilisa-
tion ” and you will understand what the marriage question
realty means... “H.J.M.” (Vic.): We pay poets, but
never take money as a consideration for publishing
poetry. However, we do know of a Sydney weekly which
has long been in that line of business. We might as well
cut our throat at once as publish your poem, and you
might just as well cut your throat as publish it with your
name appended.... “ Tim Finnigan ”: A man aggrieved
by the “ lasches ” of The Bulletin had better saw
the beam out of his own eye “ A. Ross M.” : Thanks. ..
“A. Scrubber” (S. Grafton): No. Mr. George Adams is
not related in any way whatever to the person named
“J.D.”: Letter posted you at Gundagai “F.”: All
the same, 55 people guessed it. Wouldn’t “ midnight
visitor” have fitted the bill? . ,“J.R.” (Melb.): A
straight advt. for the Standard critic. Are you that
critic? “A Subscriber” (Richmond River): Lay the
matter before Sydney Trades and Labour Council, who
will make known the employer’s terms in the city, where
his knowledge will do most good “The Lyre” ; Re-
posted “J.”: You are too inquisitive “C. J.”
(Maclean): The man who makes such statements simply
challenges tar and feathers. The women of the district
are presumably as virtuous as other women ; but no
doubt the Maclean district has some tolerably vile men.
“G.J.M.”; “Pictures in the flames” hackneyed
theme drearily treated. You should just have seen the
prophesied pictures in the flames after the W.P.B. was
emptied. Try again. .. “ Doctor M.” : All have a more
or less ancient flavour save this:—First Johnny: “Have
you been here long? ” Second Johnny : “About as long
as a piece of string.” “C. J. Chester”: Blood
flows; “gore” doesn’t. Gore is clotted b100d....
“Mero”: The N.S.W. Labour-party had just better hoe
its own row. Parkes has succeeded in no small degree
because of his physical power. At 77, he can with im-
punity eat Welsh rarebit and drink bad fizz at 3 a.m.
Politically, he recalls Gabbett, the boss cannibal of “ His
Natural Life,” w'ho could stay awake longer than any of
the rest, and so was able to knock on the head and make
a meal of the last man. Parkes’ other chief qualities
conducive to success of the Parkesian order, are his
chilled-steel cheek, his well-founded contempt for the
public memory, his sublime egotism and consequent
utter selfishness, and his shameless systematic appropria-
tion of other men’s ideas. Parkes has done some strong
things—we saw the Zoo tiger break a marrowbone the
other day' with its back teeth —but he has never done, or
said, anything original or brilliant save in the way of
cant, hypocrisy, or ingratitude, in all his long, vicious
and useless political life. That’s The Bulletin’s opinion,
anyhow “ H.0.H.” : You fail to draw the picture ...
“ Obadiah S.” : The substance of it: A man, wife, and six
children can live on 30s. weekly if they get help from the
wife’s relations “ Enf. Lou.”: After reading youi
verses to your cousin, “ composed while in bed with in-
fluenza,” we sincerely hope that you will stay in bed for
two years.... “ A.W.M.” : “Australia” is in general not
interested in the “ New Hebrides Question.” As a matter
of fact, there is no New Hebrides Question, except
that raised by a canting set of Calvinistic hypocrites
who, having grabbed 'land from the local niggers,
are trading on Franco-English race-hatred to put
money into their own pockets in the name of
G0d..... “H.C.S.”: Neat -verses, but we object
to prolonging the incident. We don’t want to
encourage women to help their husbands to commit
suicide... “W. T. Sherwood ” (Q.): We don’t remembei
it.... “ E.R.8.”: A very prosaic account of a very un-
scientific fight .“A.L.0.; The National Ass has a dis-
tinct interest in inducing independent Democrats to
throw in their lot with the Paraguayan pilgrims
“Nero” (Brisbane): The Bulletin is quite willing to
blast such an individual ,f it can be done in an interesting
fashion, but the mere statement that he is objectionable
isn’t interesting “Well-wisher”; You say “ visitor ”
means “ one who comes to see another in civility or friend-
ship,” yet “ this is what your missing-word man dubs a
burglar.” We have looked up your authority, and ha
says nothing of the kind. He says, “One who
comes, &c., as in civility or friendship,” which
makes a great lot of difference. Besides, another
definition is “one who comes to see or inspect.”
A burglar comes to inspect, doesn’t he?....“ W.H.8.”
(Ipswich); The only address we know is vaguely “South
Africa.”.... “Truthful Richard ”: A large but serious lie...
“Invercargill" (M.L.); The Bulletin has no loose
sympathy on hand for the young man who was fined 20s.
on account of a practical joke with a spider. The primi-
tive nature of his “ humour” aggravates the offence.. .
“Justice” (Randwick): Many thanks “W.W."
(Diamantina); The “ Neglected Grave ” variety of pathos
is mostly artificial. At all events we don’t care whether
our grave is neglected or not. If some loving friend likes
to oolne and plant a large dock there in the spring he is
welcome. Also, he is welcome to stay away. Every spot
of earth is a neglected grave and one more doesn’t matter.
....“J. Bull”: Truly, there is as much difference in some
people as anybody ...“Percy A.” (M.L.): The Bulletin
is more convinced than ever that the man with the front
name of Percy is a lamentable circumstance. The man
you speak of isn’t an exception ; you see, we know that
man and you don’t “Ponte”: “A Chestnut in Dis-
guise” to hand. Inferior chestnut and badly disguised.
“Square”: Glad to hear it. Gambling is a loath-
some practice and a short cut to perdition. At the same
time, Ti b Bulletin draws attention to its m’ssing-word
competitu n on the red cover of this issue.
The English gushed over Zola when he
visited them, but they put into gaol tb£ man who
sells his books.


Ipticd to ||uit all Rights.
T
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Facultv, 10 6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <Sc ROBERTB,
Jewellery Showrooms,
93, II (r NTEK STREET, SYDNEY.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
-A. Gr-ooc3L and Clieap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1886.
f
Manufactured bt
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
PAYERJfE (Switzerland).
finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
.ny other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
TKe Old Blend
Wlusfcy
tE H°Rse
WH ~p Cellar
Edinburgh.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
f
Misses Flora Hastings, Leighford, Evelyn Harte»
and Katherine Hardy give more or less active
assistance to the indefatigable comedians who run
the show.
** * *
The Alhambra did a large business last
week. Also, the Gaiety looked more prosperous
than usual, but the Jubilee Singers at the
Athenseum Hal), finding the times out of accord
with pious part songs, decided to retire on Tues-
day of this week—the Pelhams (“At Horae”) to
follow them this (Thursday) evening. On Mon-
day the appearance of Miss Di Blonstein as
Pauline, at the Alexandra, was to be made a
sporting event by her presentation of a picture,
painted by herself, to the rider of Tarooola. This
idea of dragging on a light-weight jockey to lend
eclat to “ The Lady of Lyons ” was unique in its
grandeur and deserving of special mention.
** * *
The Brough-Boucicaulfc Cos. continue to
triumph at Melb. Princess’, where the late visitor
cashes up with alacrity for the privilege of stand-
ing-room only. On Saturday they revived “A
Village Priest,” and the story of the just judge
who cheated the hangman was told impressively
as ever. The value of “ A Village Priest ” lies
chiefly in this bursting up of the majesty which
doth hedge in a wig, for it is well that chuckle-
headed citizens should understand the possibility
of a “cronk” potentate being a power for evil on
the judgment-seat. Furthermore, it is a point
to remember that Brough, the first man to breathe
suspicion against the deceased luminary, is called
a “ blasphemer ” for his pains. Mrs. Brough is
young for the character of the amorous matron,
formerly played so well by Miss Watt-Tanner,
but her repentant sob attains to the high level of
the performance in general. Titheradge, as of
yore, carries his green umbrella at the head of
affairs in the name part, and the grand old miracle
is splendidly interpreted by an unseen Providence.
This Saturday (18th) “The Guardsman” will
appear for the first time in Melbourne.
** * *
The Italian Opera has been followed in
Adelaide by the Taylor-Carrington Cos, at the
Royal, and by Collett Dobson at the Bijou. Both
are running Irish pieces—the latter has local
amateurs in his co.
At Poverty Point.
One more big Australian hotel has barred actors as
lodgers. Recently a married) mummer, owing a Dig bill,
levanted with the landlady’s comely daughter.
The latest distinguished Melb. lady aspirant for ama-
teur operatic honors is a bit bandy.
Jockey Hales to interviewer: “The sense of touch more
than anything else tells you when your horse is beginning
to fad, and it is very much the same as good touch in a
pianist.” How many pianists we have known who
should have been jockeys !
Aunde^ Moore has been Julietting again, “by special
request.” Arthur Greenaway was the lovely victim
elected this time for submission to the embraces of the
lady s long arms. And ttie occasion was Wallace’s benefit.
Amide Moore has but one yearn in her life, to play Juliet.
And all that Melbourne wants to know is the addresses of
the people who specially “ request ” her to do it.
Charles Arnold has a Bogie-man effect in his new play,
“Captain Fritz.” A child seated on his knee blows
bubbles with prismatic effects obtained bv the blend of
red limelight from a fire place, and moonlight from an
open window. Meanwhile, he sings " Bubbles.” This is
very pretty until the night that something stuffs up the
pipe, and the interesting child can t blow.
The Anarchists have taken to the theatres now. With
bombs in the stalls the flymen have the best show. When
Lola Montez was playing “ The Litt e Devil," at Ballarat,
in the early days, a real thunderstorm inixtd itself up
with the mock tin-rattling, and a bolt came through the
roof accompanied by a flash of lightning which licked
lycopodium ho.low. Lola afterwards remarked to the
property-man that his effects were “ very creditable
indeed.” We have- heard this lie told differently, but it
was the same lie.
Offensive militarism. Volunteers, at the play, refuse to
lake off theircups.
“ How’s biz.?” “Oh, packed to the door, we shut up
a circus one night. We re going back in a month on a
guarantee.” The landlord of the hotel, however, gels at
the real facts much easier.
Luscombe Searelle once wrote a frenzied poem dedi-
cated to the lovely Alice Lingard (then playing
“Engaged ” with Horace L.). It opened with:
“They say that I am mad !
That I am one bereft of the omniscient gift of reason :
But if lhe base, scheming cunning of mankind is sense—
Then I thank the Great Unseen I have it not I”
The end was (a convulsion):
“ Hold ! or I will rend ye hit from bit
And throw your carrion to the grinning dogs!”
O for a snap-shot of Luscombe’s expression, it that poem
happened to bump up against him now 1
While Rignold, as Ned Drayton, the hero of “ In the
Ranks,” was wringing his hands and tossing himself
against his “ dungeon ”, door in the prison scene of that
play recently, said door flew open. “Ohl I shall go
mad!’ he moaned. (Then aside; “Close the doors, you
fools!”) “ How shall 1 get out ?” (“Closethe door,
you !”) The audience began to titter, and roared
right out when a small voice in the gallery advised;
‘Get out of the door, George, old man. Get out of the
dungeon door 1” This was too much for Henry Vee, and
with “By , I will!” he bolted; and things were
lively “ behind ” for the rest of the evening.
Over that “steam-roller” drama at Melb. Royal, “Is
Life Worth Living?” the Aor waxed sarcastic: “A steam-
roller of a phlegmalic and slow habit of mind, in the most
exciting situations, behaves in a contemptible manner,
and, by refusing to rush over the prostrate body of the
heroine, robs an effective scene of much of its value. . . .
The absence of a saw-mill plant and a steam dredger
lends a certain amount of tameness to the play.”
Stated that the four-nights’ takings at the production
in the Theatre Royal, Adelaide (S. A.), of “ Immomeena,”
the other week, totalled ff £3o9. “Immomeena” is a
comic opera, written by H. Congreve Evans, editor of
Adelaide Quiz, and set to music by Herr Moritz Heuzen-
roeder, also of Adelaide. A correspondent lauds it—
“ Purely Australian ; written and composed by Austra-
lians; and performed by Australian ladies and gen-
tlemen.” The local papers said nice things about it, but
The Bulletin has not been enabled to furnish an inde-
pendent appraisement.
Clarence Holt doesn’t tell the Era interviewer about
his battles with his co-manager Hoskins, at Melb. Royal.
Clarence: “I think, Billy, you might put up my Hamlet
for Saturday night.” Hoskins: “Oh, no, Clarence, just
oblige me this once—your good old Three Musketeers.”
Clarence: “Crushed again!”—and he crushed the same
billycock that Bland wears.
Rosina Yokes and her co. open at Sydney Lyceum in
May. Marius conies as stage-manager.
Chang 1 , the Chinese giant, is dead. He married a Melb*
girl.
Mile. Bartho remains to do the “dances of all nations”
at the Finn’s Sydney pantomime, “Beauty and the Beast.”
Nellie Stewart will be Beauty.
The recent Duke of Saxe-Cohurg, brother of Albert the
Middling Good, always kept an actress—as reader—and
you be bound she was ugly as sin. Such was bis vanity,
that he actually appeared on the stage as Bolingbroke
(d la Nero gladiating) in Scribe’s comedy, “A Glass of
Water,” bub the audience was forbidden to applaud (or
hiss).
Chevalier’s latest coster song is a lullaby, with quaint
’cello accompaniment, sung to an apocryphal baby in a
cradle. The coster, in shirt-sleeves, sits rocking the
cradle, toying with the feeding-bottle, &c., as his alleged
infant goes off to sleep.
Wily Augustus Harris, knight, gave a reception to the
British Institute of Journalists at Covent Garden Theatre.
The criticisms on Augustus’ latest drama reflect his gor-
geous hospitality.
During a circus performance at Luton (Eng.) the other
day, a man in the gallery lighted a box of matches and
dropped it upon the folks below, with a wild shriek of
“Fire !” This was a particularly heinous offence, because
Luton audiences comprise about nine women to one man.
Fortunately, there is very little “nerves” in the straw-
plait industry', and the panic that ensued was not serious.
It takes a good deal to frighten a Luton girl.
A IVtelb. theatrical organ gazes calmly into futurity, and
scatters round crumbs of information : “ .with
his wife, two children (one in esse, the other in posse). .
. . . is in Queensland.”
H. A. Jones’ “Tempter,” though much puffed, is an
artistic failure.
Williamson and Musgrove offered £lO,OOO to Irving
and Ellen Terry alone for an Australian season of 15
weeks. They wouldn’t look at it. “In my opinion,”
says Musgrove, “ the only possible chance of Irving
coming to Australia is that he comes as a matter of
pride."
A Bulletin correspondent story:— When the Hellers
were at that wild spot Joadja Creek, on the
N.S. Wales Southern railw'ay line, Miss Heller
was asked if she would ride up the inclined rail-
way, which runs down the steep sides of the valley. As
this saves a tiring climb on foot of about an hour, the lady
was inclined to do so, but, as the railway people refused to
take accident-risks, she decided nob to go. This deter-
mination, it is said, was strengthened by a vision of an
accident to the car she meant to travel in. She saw (during
one of her hypnotic trances) the cable break and the car
dashed to pieces 200 ft. below. Next day, however, Miss
Heller was induced to alter her mind, so her brother—the
"Professor,” as he doesn’t like to be called, and who never
lakes any lisks— started alone on foot to climb the moun-
tain side, first endeav curing to dissuade his sister and the
manager, Percv Abbott, from chancing their lives in the
car. A drummer agreed to accompany them, and they
got into the coal-waggon together, the traveller at the rear
and Miss Heller anil Abbott in front. All se med right
until a height of 300 feet was reached when an ominous
cracking sound told that the cable was unravelling. The
broken strands flew round for a moment, and then parted
with a smart snap just as the two male passengers jumped
out on the track. The traveller, unfortunately, as
appeared at first, jumped out at the rear of the car ; in
falling, his head struck the rail and the car-wheel running
backward struck him-but fortunately only on the cheek.
Abhot t thought the man’s head was crushed, but to his
great joy and surprise the downward rush of the car was
stopped long enough for him to snatch up the lady and
deposit her safely on the mountain side. He then extri-
cated the traveller from his perilous position, and the car
thundered down the steep incline leaving the track and
bounding like a frightened living thing over rocks and
trees to its complete destruction in the creek below. The
traveller was, with the exception of a few scratches, un-
hurt, and as the trio wearily climbed the rest of the steep
Miss Heller determined never again to disregard a psychic
warning.— Advt. ?
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
November 15j 1803.
My Dear Moobabinda—
To raise a shriek of rapture over Tarcoola’s Cup
at this distance demands a sort of “ I looked far
hack into other years ” attitude, and even the
dresses seem now as if you were viewing ’em
through the wrong end of your opera-glass. For
instance, I just remember that Lady Hopetoun’s
powder-pink silk revealed more cambric petticoat
than the wearer probably suspected; also that the
feminine gaping stock of the Cup meeting—Lady
Sarah Spencer Churchill Wilson—was about the
most picturesque distinguished' visitor we’ve had.
Lady Sarah (who reminds you a little of Mrs.
Bland Holt) is what might be termed a “ high-
stepper.” Her check coaching cloak, with sixteen
hands collar and the Boulevardian chapeau of
spring green straw, covered with snowdrops and
a pink rose or two prinking out a-top, was worn
with a sort of effrontery that made feminine Aus-
tralia gaze on Lady W. with its lower jaw
dropped. It is a lesson to careful mediocrity—
which folds its gloved hands over its waist-belt, and
suffers agonies over the tilt of its bonnet—to be
shown a “real howling swell ” who dresses like a
Challenge now and again.
Lady Sarah Wilson’s Australian social record
is promising, so far. At the vice-regal crowded
‘ Cup ’ ball (wln;re a slim Sydney girl, whose
principal toilet-point was a necktie fastened with
a jewel, came in for much of the admiration
which hasnt had much to expend itself on this
meeting) Lady Wilson had moments of a deen
cerulean blue. Revealing a Parisian glimpse of
hosen she sat with her feet stuck out, admiring
her golden slippers, with a horribly weary air
most unflattering to the magnetic attractions of
the bmellbourman dancing-man. Then, when the
Premier beguiled her into what was evidently (to
him) the mazy dance-for he got hopelessly
bushed at the second figure—Lady W. pub-
licly stamped her golden shoe at him, and then
shrugged her shoulders. Judging by physiog-
nomic indications, the bride of Wilson, unr., is
horribly bored with Australia. “ What a disap-
pointment ! Not one genuine gm!” her expres-
sion seems to say, as the ballroom filled with the
common and usual kind of waltzers.
Talking about' the first Hopetoun hop, one
Sydney lady-doing the Cup enfille, which is the
feminine for en gallon- was chagrined at being
eft out of the hunt and sought an explanation at
head-quarters. “Oh! we thought you wouldn't
care for a card as you haven’t your husband with
you, was the unexpected retort. Let grass
widowers make a note of it! But it just shows
you the awful difference society makes between a
man and a woman ! The vice-regal ball-room was
crowded with grass-widowers from all over the
place, the absence of whose Joans wasn't supposed
to spoil their social appetite! And it obviously
didn’t, either! J
But let me pick up the parable of the Cup ere
the weights are out for next one. Lady Duff saw
her first Cup in a loquacious spirit and an ecru
lustre gown very taut as to fit, and exceedingly
becoming-a small gold-and-brown and green
bonnet harmonising admirably—altogether the
most rakish turnout Lady D. has sported here.
Lady Glasgow’s silk attire was metallic in effect-
gold and steely glimpses like scales of a panto-
mime dragon, and a floral bonnet too small for the
width of her face ; Mrs. Bowden-Smith produced
the effect of a primrose in a coal-bin in yellow and
black, but the dress was stylish. The best fit in
the vice-regal box was Gov. Hopetoun’s long grey
coat, which made one suspect that the rumour of
coats carefully whaleboned, d la dress-bodices
isn’t a funny newspaper jokelet after all. Gov’.
Duff, in pale grey and a bunch of pink flowers iri
his coat, got his share of feminine admiration.
“Isn’t he handsome?’’ I heard one lady gushingly
exclaim as Sydney's potentate marched past trim-
ming his moustache, as usual. Gov. Duff now
owes me a tram-ticket,
I don’t think the Cup of ’93 offered as many
gorgeous hostages to fashion as Derby Day did.
One golden-haired lady, with a glittering bonnet,
recently returned from Europe, impressively swept
the pavement with a brocaded satin train. Lady
Clarke’s dress of pale-lavender bengaline with
violet velvet trimmings and phalanges of silver
lace was the sort of glittersomeness you find in the
Fairy Queen, but it had the virtue of standing
out. That is the drawback at the Cup—you can’t
help noticing the violent clothing before anything
else. The modest-daisy sort of thing doesn’t get
a possible show in such a rampant mob. Ones
eye is caught by chromatic loudness in a crowd
just as much as one’s ear is caught by the big-
drum in the full orchestra. The woman who
wants to make sure of being seen at Flemington
on the first Tuesday in November is advised to
wear all white and blue and a parrot in her bonnet.
And she sometimes does, too.
Judging coining modes from Melbourne Cup,
I may advise anxious enquirers to keep their
backbones straight and their eyes on the fashion-
papers and they will turn out as stylishly as will
be good for them. I detected nothing paralys-
ingly novel at Flemington. Hats ran in allshapes
from a rosebud and a spotted veil to floppers with
an ostrich-farm on them, and dresses went from
“one-guinea costumes ” to brocades that you
could imagine standing up like tin mail when the
owner left.
Some of the Sydneyites cut a little dash. Mrs.
Robert Prendergast’s dress of grey and silver
brocade with trimmings of cream lace and a very
piquant bonnet became her tremendously ; but a
leaderess of Sydney fashion turned out seedily in
a mustard-colour gown and a matronly black
bonnet with a sprig of mignonette. Miss Burde-
kin, in heliotrope crepon with velvet silk effects
and a rough straw brown hat, was a pleasant
spectacle.
Attempts at flimsiness were mostly failures —
they got so draggle tailed after a bit. One girl in
rose-pink tarletan reminded me of a rose-mange
that had set badly. A maiden in white muslin
made with a long cape and skirt trimmed with
insertion, looked as if she was wearing out her
christening-robe. One damsel in cream with long
stoles of green velvet sprung a novelty, but it
wasn’t very successful, for the long ends made her
look as flat as a board. Another bit of newness
was the Pagliacci ruff, which gave the wearer the
appearance of St. John’s head on a charger, or a
pouter-pigeon showing-off. Undoubtedly the most
successful Cup dresses were those that had black
for the dominant colour. One black gown, exten-
sively mingled with old-gold satin covered with
guipure, was very modish, but I don’t think a
literary man’s wife did wisely to sport a white
satin bodice with a trickling pattern in black tear-
ing all over it —just like written-on paper ! Also,
two girls in white tarletan bordered with black
lines, evidently took their sartorial cue from
mourning notepaper, and their chaperone in black
and white was mingled like a magpie.
Only three men stood boldly out from the ruck
of grass-widowers, and so on, stampeding the lawn
where—en parenthese—the flowers made it very
pretty. One was a potentate in white gaiters
whom an irreverent youth advised to pull up his
socks. The other was a battered-looking warrior
who wore a gaudy necktie fastened by a paste
brooch, half a dozen medals on his tattered coat,
torn trews and burst boots—and yet his air as he
leant near the vice-regal box was tout-d-fait Picca-
dilly. The third man wore brown checks and a
brown Derby hat wreathed in a lady’s gossamer
veil, giving his topping-off the appearance of a
plum-pudding in a paper-collar.
The Cup trophy of ’93 was a solid silver cup
and salver, and two mugs. The idea of making
mugs part of the Gup trophy seemed delightfully
harmonising after a 50 to 1 animal had got home
first. By the way, the only laugh that arose from
the doomed multitude ere the Cup was run was


‘Be Traist.” What does it mean?
essrs. Innes and Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
ead brand of Wines, inform us that it is old
baxon, and means “be true.” As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines, which
are sold at all grocers’, from Is. per bottle up-
wards. Their invalid Port, at 3s. 6d., is a won-
derful wine, full of health-giving properties,*
New York Life Insurance Company.
ESTABLISHED 1845.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893
Surplus, Ist January, 1893
Progress of the Company in 1892.
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
INCREASE IN SUPLUS
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE
£28.292,016
3,457,808
.. .. £212,9 29
.. .. 2,376,935
342,371
4,308,660
12.379,722
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over <£2,000,000, than
the gain of any other Company in the world.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia.
Chief Office: Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N, S, W,
To Prosi-ectors.— The advertiser, who has ample capital
at command, also long mining experience, invites offers
of good gold-mining properties, to he worked for the
mine, not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic-
sluicing claims. Send offers, with fullest particulars, to
‘ Oro,” 2 Pirie-street, Adelaide.
when the usual small dog started on its wild
career in the straight. As the officials chivvied
Toby up and down everyone laughed explosively,
though there isn’t anything extra comical in a
white dog running on a race-track. After the
race, if a camel had commenced dancing the
lancers on the lawn, I donT think one giggle
would have come from the stricken multitude.
Oaks Day at Flemington wasn’t sartorially ex-
citing. The only matter for enthusiasm was that
wardrobes didn’t repeat themselves—women pre-
ferring to appear in garments that had seen ser-
vice but which it was safe to bet the guileless
visitor didn’t know from something straight from
the stocks. The thing that really interested you
was a “ warm ” (say Queensland) lady with hubby
in her wake, while Toorak looked on and wondered
“What will be whispered now?” When lovely
woman begins to dove-tail hubby into the proces-
sion after a period of blank social forgetfulness
that she ever had such a thing about her boudoir,
the vulgar world looks more knowing than usual.
I can’t leave the race-subject without saying
something in sugar about how things are managed
at Flemington. Everywhere the arrangements
are fastidiously done. The minutiae in the ladies’
room, for instance, which proves Mr. Byron Moore
to be an artful observer of woman in her nose-
powdering moments —but then everybody knows
he is married. One positive luxury was the great
jars of vinegar salts to revive limp ladies whose
horses are first at the wrong end. Women want
a lot of reviving after racing, you know. In my
mind’s eye I see a frantic female waving her brolly
and howling at the Cup horses, and, finding her
ten-guinea teetli in the way of her eldritch screech-
ing, she just snatched ’em out and got the rest of
her encouragement through her gums. But she
waved her teeth at the horses as if they (the teeth)
were a pocket-handkerchief.
The race meeting garden-party at Govmentouse,
Melb., on 10th inst., revealed the usual welter-
weight woman, trimmed with pansies and four-
teen frills, and the female shaveling ( such a lot of
the girls there were what the grooms call “ badly
ribbed up.” What would poor dear Anna Potts,
M.D., say to a woman the shape of a crucifix ? I
positively wonder sometimes how their skirts
hang on), and, as I wanted to remark before I in-
terrupted myself so rudely, the female shaveling
enhanced her signpost effect by coming forth
in a gored slip that would take the look of
weight off even Juliet’s nurse. The colour of the
day was green—altho’ Lady Hopetoun’s pink silk
and fine white lace hadn’t a tinge of it, and
Lady Duff, who likes Melbourne immensely, wore
her Oaks costume of electric blue and cream-colour
silk ; but nearly everybody else wore, more or less,
green—it was said, out of compliment to Lady
Hopetoun’s nationality. One damsel in green
and a bright cream sash wore what looked like a
shamrock in green velvet on the off side—an
isolated green spot as if she was beginning to
mildew. But yellow had a good following, too,
and so the effect of the immense lawn with tea
and ices in the middle distance and a baud further
on was like a millennial gathering of all shades of
religio-political opinion.
Despite this chromatic suggestion of religious
differences, the garden party was very pleasant.
Lord Hopetoun (whom everybody praises as a
host, and who is about the best advt. ever pos-
sessed by vice-regal tailor) was so sure beforehand
that he would be completely fascinated by the
whole set-out, that he laid on a camera-man to
take a snap-shot of the glittering scene, His Ex.
means to store up the picture to take home with
liira—in the same spirit, I suppose, that the old-
time pilgrim was always careful -to carry back bis
hair-shirt and a sample of unboiled peas, just to
show there was no deception.
A good many Sydney-siders attended the garden
party—Mrs. Robert Preudergast, in a brown silk
with ombre stripes—an indescribably effective
garment ; Mayor Manning, looking more London
Joarualish than ever in a top hat and a pink
boutonniere ; Ministers Slattery and Lyne, much
beflowered ; Kowalski; pretty Maude Cowlland,
marching with a Sydney man whose red bouton-
niere made his ruby thatch turn pale; Mrs. Bur-
dekin, in old-gold silky stuff subdued with brown ;
but I hope a lady in butter-yellow who wore a
corset bodhe in plain white didn’t come from
Sydney. She reminded me of the dummy in the
hygienic stay-maker’s—“ how it looks on the
figure.” Then I couldn’t help smiling at a woman
making kangaroo-leaps from the tea-tent with
(probably allegorical) swallows all over her para-
sol ; and you really had to bite your lip when
Melbourne’s most-convassed frisky lolled by with
a bunch of particularly innocent flowers in her
frock. Imagine Don Juan with a lily-of-the-valley
boutonniere? He always does wear one, by the
way.
Young ladies at present engaged in making
crewel - work slippers with garlands of pink
forget-me-nots for the spreading hoofs of their
Love's Young Dream, had better pause ere choos-
ing their purple parrots until I have warned them
that Gov. Duff wears Duff-tartan slippers—size
I'oT/r Bo,n eb°dyencountered him training down
to Melb. from Broken Hill with his feet variegated
on the aforementioned clannish principles, and I
am told that on the first dazzling glance the car-
riage seemed full of tartan. However, if loud
patterns do make large feet, I am certain that
explosive checks will not be the only wear.
On dit that a very wealthy Titiputian, who
recently saw his feminine belongings off to the
inoon, or somewhere, for an indefinite period,
turned I mean the Titiputian did—to a male
triend, who was assisting at the departure, and
said with a long, deep breath : “Ah ! now, I’m
on the market for whoever bids! ” Of such is the
kingdom of grasswidowerdom !
On dit that the reason why a well-known young
*)dy is debarred from a certain Australian
txovmentouse isn’t for the crime of flirting, but
because when His Ex. chafflngly said to her,
tou haven’t congratulated Lord Blank Dash ”
(on his engagement), the goaded damsel behaved
most unexpectedly. “ D n Lord Blank Dash!”
said she with gusto.
As The Bulletin predicted it would be, Lady
ersey s portrait was being hawked round in
bamoa for sale the other day, as if “M.E.J.”
was a sort of intellectual Mrs. Brown-Potter who
was obliged in common humanity to leave a trail
loveliness behind her. But the thing was—
obody would buy it. One half-hearted spend-
l 'flu °“ ere d four dollars for the dream of beauty,
u the vendor asked six, and the baffled purchaser
backed away.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Since the State-subsidised Cremorne syndicate
Struck coal by the side of Sydney Harbour, a rush of
applications for coal-leases close handy has set in. In
three days the areas applied for reached 10,000 acres,
four speculators applying for 2000 acres each and three
others for smaller patches. These leases are, it seems, to
go through the usual routine and be issued as a matter
of course. They will be granted, presumably, at the
same royalty (6d. per ton) as that charged to the Cremorne
syndicate. Then the holders will either proceed to work
their mines or else—which is at least equally probable
to lie low for a chance to sell out at a good figure to the
original monopoly.
* * «
Some of the Democratic members of N.S.W.
Assembly should sit bard down on Ibis public fraud while
there is yet time. The fact that the Cremorne Co. lias
got its concession at something like one-third of its value
is no reason why the same injury should lie perpetuated,
any more than the fact that some parts of the public
estate have been given away gratis is a reason why all the
rest of it should be similarly disposed of. Also, the fact
that the Cremorne private enterprise was subsidised out
of tile prospeeting-vote should be a sufficient reason why
no more of that vote should be tooled away in like
manner. One such experiment is quite enough lor a
generation.
• • »
The great Sydney Harbour coal-grab is said to
be a legacy' from the bad old days of Minister Tom
Garrett. The present Ministers had nothing to do with
giving away the Sydney coal-beds ; but they must now be
allowed to extend the grab. Should they give any more
coal concessions at 6d. per ton royalty they should be
smashed at once.
# • #
As additional leases at a nominal royalty may
be granted during Parliamentary vacation, the Labour
leader ghoul I endeavour to extract a promise that no
more Sydney coal rights shall be alienated without Par-
liamentary' sanction. These right are worth millions if
they are worth anything at all. Some coal-experts (in-
terested in -other mines) say that the depth is too great
the temperature is too high ) for men to work re-
muneratively. But flesh and blood is cheap now-a-days.
• • #
The weaker and the more conscienceless of the
Australian reconstructed banks are now lending their
depositors part of their own money at 7 or 8 per cent,
interest. As they pay the depositor 4 to 4£ per cent.,
this means that the poor client is charged an average
of 2J or 3 per cent, for being deprived of his own money.
Also, these same banks generally demand security for
the “advance,” which distinctly implies that they don’t"
regard their own deposit-receipts as security. The Bul-
letin, however, doesn’t complain so very much about
this latter feature in the case. The reconswindled insti-
tution knows the value of its p.n. better than anybody
else does, and if it is aware that it can’t rely on its own
promise to pay, it naturally acts accordingly.
• • •
The St. Josepb’s(THE Bulletin dislikes financial
institutions named after saints—and “no Joseph was ever
much of a success, anyhow”) Investment and Building
Society, Sydney, which lately “arranged” with its
depositors, now finds that it is necessary to arrange some
more, and proposes that the repayments shall be extended
over nine years in place of five. A good many other re-
constructed institutions will probably have to do likewise.
* # *
In Sydney, the other day, Mr. William
Eyre, who used to be the “Freehold Investment
and Deposit Bank,” applied for his insolvency
certificate, and, The Bulletin is pleased to note,
didn’t get it. William was the whole Freehold Invest-
ment and Deposit Bank in his own person. He vias, to
all intents and purposes, the manager, the secreiary, the
board of directors, the shareholders, the auditors, the
paid up capital, the reserve-fund—everything. When he
called himself a bank be thereby disseminated an im-
pression ihat there was some capital, and a body of real
shareholders, and some semblance of security behind the
institution, but there were none of these tilings. His
conduct in calling himself a bank, when, so far as fulfil-
ing the duties of the position was concerned, he might as
well have called himself a racehorse, was—well, what was
it?
Yet the utterly imbecile law of N.S. Wales had
no objection to make in fact, it mikes no objection to
this day. Despite all the gross banking-jobs that have
come and gone, the cheeky William Eyre can start again
to-morrow, and call himself another bank if he wants to,
and collect more deposits if he is artful enough to get
them.
The Freehold, &0., Bank had not, apparently!
one cent of visible cash capital. In fact, it started with a
big overdraft and a lot of debts. The “banker” had been
five times previously bankrupt, generally in a most alarm-
ing fashion. Once he paid a small sum in the £. Another
time he paid Is.ljd. in the £ to preferential creditors only,
ordinary creditors, apparently, getting nothing. On the next
occasion be paid nothing at all in the £, nr in anything
else. These three events took place in N.S. Wales, and on
each occasion he got bis certificate within light
months, and was turned out again as good as new.
He had, also, two insolvencies in" Victoria, concerning
which no particulars are publicly available. His Freehold
Investment and Deposit Bank wnsa man-trap for deposits,
and a mean, unvarnished spring-gun for depositors. It
paid high rates to attract money, and when it had got all
the money it could it burst, and most of the wretched
depositors are vainly looking for their lost savings to this
day.
Mr. Eyre, at his bankruptcy examination,
seemed only to remember with great difficulty that the
present was his sixth insolvency. And should he ever be
so unlucky as to have another insolvency, he may possibly
have lost the run of the calculation once more, and have
the same difficulty over again. It seems a pity that some-
thing can’t be done to impress the fact on bis memory.
He ought to be taken into Sydney Domain and there loid
serious!}', and in a loud voice, that he has been “ broke ’’
six times, and after that an immense “6” should be
tattooed on his back, so that everybody can see it when
he goes in for a swim. Also, the policeman on the beat
where he lives should be directed to call at his house
every day, and mention to him in a tone of remonstrance
that he has gone bung ou six different, occasions, and
any other available steps should be taken to prevent him
forgetting the fact.
# * *
In Sydney, the other day, a property, which
fetched £45,000 in the boom days, was auctioned for
£20,000. At the same sale a hotel, yielding £6OO a year
rental, sold for £39oo—less than eight years’ purchase, or
a yield of nearly 13 per cent, per annum to the investor.
Judging by these figures the feeling is evidently growing
strong that the bottom will shortly fall out of the hotel
industry.
• # «
The late Justice Kerferd (Vic.) willed that the
proceeds of his estate should be invested in bank shares
for his widow and eight children. £B5OO was thus laid
out, but all the banks burst, and now want £5235 in calls
from the unfortunate heirs who now (forlorn hope!) sue
the executors for negligent investment.
* * *
The Melb. Anglo-Australian Bank (in liquida-
tion) applied last Monday to Judge Hood for permission
to make a call of £4 per share. In June last, it appears,
the hank got authority to collect £153,964, lait after the
most vigorous and relentless calling it realised just £620,
and as the calling process cost more than that the proceed-
ing didn’t pay expenses. After allowing for the loss thus
incurred, the total available assets are £4454, and the
liabilities somewhere over £400,000, or a general prospect
of 2d. in the £. Under these depressing conditions the
court, very pertinently, desired to know what was to be
gained by authorising the collection of another £4 per
share, and postponed the matter for further considera-
tion. The new call would involve a serious expense in
postage-stamps and stationery, and it would furnish
cause for keeping the liquidation open and paying
the liquidator’s screw for several months while
that othcial was presumably expecting the money that
would never come. Meanwhile, the £4OOO odd in hand
would be fooled away in the cost of waiting for the
£lOO or so wiiich might possibly be realised by turning
the only solvent shareholder—there appears to be only
about one left—upside down, and shaking him for any
mon y that might fall out. The Anglo-Australian was a
magnificent swindle, but seeing that the principal share-
holders and promoters of it are now in Pentridge, and
their calls would have to be collected in road-metal, the
liquidation looks as if, in some respects, it were a good
deal more grotesque than the original bank.
# # •
The Q.N. Bank has re-constrncted the Union
Prisoners’ Assistance Fund of £l5OO at 4£ per cent,
interest. But the bowelless institution offers to advance
£1125 of the amount on the personal security of the
trustees of the fund, at 7 per cent, interest. Which
means that ttiey are to pay over £3OO for the privilege of
not being able to get their own money, and if the bank
should come to any more serious grief they will have to
repay their own money and then take any percentage
that is going.
• * *
Glasson must indeed have been mad. Instead
of trying to open the City Bank at Carcoar with a toma-
hawk he should have opened a bank of his own with a
brass plate in Sydney, It would have paid much better
dividends.
* * *
“No poaching,’’ 'said Service, the Commercial
Bank champion, at the time of the awful strain, but there
was poaching, with grim effect, as witness the reports of
the non-reconstruotors.
« * #
We would remind Bulletin readers that the clos-
ing dale for the first ballot in the Columbian Land Distribu-
tion is the 27th inst. We are positively assured by the
promoters that the drawing will take place on the 30th,
and the prizes then balloted for will be exclusively from
the Nambrok Estate, unequalled pastoral and agricultural
land.
# * *
A salt-manufacturer has for some months been
making various kinds of salt from seawater at Bulli,
N.S.W. Analysis has proved it equal to the best Cheshire
salt, and works to turn out 100 tons weekly are to be
erected. Hitherto, the trouble has been to get rid of the
magnesia and other impurities in seawater, but this has
been surmounted. With cheap coal, nominal freight, £1
a ton duty on the imported article, and a yearly con-
sumption of 25,000 tons, there should be money in the
business.
The N.S.W. fish-curing scheme seems to have
died out. It will be time to revive it when cheap salt
comes.
* * *
A complaint was made last week that the text
of Knox’s recent cables re Mount Lyell was not disclosed.
Success is seldom concealed ; failure never long. This
week it comes out that Mr. Knox is returning, and that
the floating is “ postponed till next year.” If Mr. Knox
hadn't got such high prices for certain historical Barrier
claims when he was in England years ago, he might have
had another tale to tell.
* * *
Bishop Webber, of Brisbane, is already on the
warpath in London, hat in hand. He says' that “ the
moral responsibility of helping Church work in Australia
reals with England, which receives the benefit of the
circulation of xo much Australian money." You should
hear the victims of reconstruction talk, remarks Tub
Bulletin’s correspondent. Of course, Aitbur Hodgson is
in it up to the neck with the Episcopal beggar. It was
an irresistible chance of advt.
« • *
In a big American suit, where one partner was
accused of concealing rich ore until he had bought the
other out, the court ruled that in such mining transac-
tions concealment of information was equivalent to decep-
tion. The ruling establishes a big precedent.
* * •
The committee of Johannesburg Chamber of
Mines are confident that they will, very shortly, succeed
in reducing the price of native labour on the local claims
to 30s. a month ‘‘and even lower I”
* * *
Phoenix Co., Gympie, 227 tons, 972 ozs.; stone
taken from the well-known Smithfield reef.
• * #
Baker’s Creek, 412 tons, 750 ozs. The only
consistent div.-paying mine in N.S.W.
After a lively Spa meeting, recently held in
Melb., the directors determined to go on and allow
manager Wylie full swing. Jessop, ex-manager, attended.
One man asked why it was every expert who had visited
the property had praised the mine and work. He refused
to believe, in the face of so much evidence, that the mine
was a failure. The washup from the Black Springs face,
where comparatively little sluicing had taken place, gave
78ozs. Future work will tell whether the gold has been
lost by insufficient fall, or the drift is much poorer than
estimated.
* * m
Two directors of the Shoalhaven Consolidated
have gone on to the property. It is time the shareholders
faced the music by carrying their gravitation water
scheme to the Yellow Springs, where there is plenty fall
and apparently unlimited pay wash.
* # #
Salt hitter water, with which common soap
won’t raise a lather, has been struck 11 miles from Cool-
gardie by the Govt water-expert, who says lie is satisfied
there is plenty of water about this underground stream,
and that he will be able to trace it much nearer the gold-
field. It is being analysed to ascertain the best means of
treatment.
# # #
Regular divs., though small, have been resumed
by No. 1 North Phoenix, Gympie. It has been, perhaps,
the most consistent div.-payer in Australia. There is a
Sydney man who, years ago, invested £4O in it. He has
never paid a call, and has drawn over £4OOO in divs., and
now gets enough to live upon in return for his original
£4O spec.
* # #
When Southern Cross, W.A., was first opened
a little more than three years ago, freight was upwards of
£5O per ton ; water very scarce, and mining otherwise
rendered expensive. Now, divs. are paid on half-oz. ore.
Economical working is the distinguishing feature of free
gold reefs. What sort of silver-mine would be wanted to
pay in the W.A. interior?
* * *
A movement is on foot to establish private smelt-
ing and amalgamating works at Newcastle, N.S.W., for
the treatment of Barrier sulphides—a big thing if done
in a big way. To attempt it with £5OOO would mean to
lose the money. With £50,000 and good management it
would be a solid, safe investment.
# • #
Last Ranh crushing, 1720 tons, yielding 24780 z,
smelted gold.
* * *
A private letter received in Brisbane on 10th,
stated that at the Separation Claim, Ulam, heavy gold
vas struck on 3Jlh Oct., the stone carrying about 150 oz.
to the ton.
• » •
The Mills United, Charters Towers, ranks next
to Mount Morgan in Q. mines; £lOO,OOO of gold has been
taken out in the past six months—tlivs., £48,750 ; paid in
wages, £40,000 ; directors’ fees only £6B ps. Monthly
output of stone, 4000 tons; at present there is three years'
work in sight.
* # #
Some Sydney men have put up .£5OO to more
thoroughly test a big quartz-lode at Nana Creek, N.S.W.
Several small ernshings brought to Sydney have averaged
12dwts., and if the value is maintained, a big battery will
follow.
* # »
!TFor the 10 months ended Oct. 31, Zeeltan (Tas.)
sent away 11.673 tons of silver-lead and 90 tons tin. Gross
value, £193,000.
# • «
Rand (South Africa) gold-output for Sept.,
129,5850 z. Big figures; but returns for August were
136,0690 z.
# « *
Total Westralian gold-export for quarter ended
Sept. 30, 25,2620z.~£95,997. Of this 16,2170 z. from
Yilgarn, 72940 z. from Murchison.
* * *
The Charters Towers gold-output for ’93 is ex-
pected to break the record. Returns ended Sept. .30 —
145,488 tons, for 196,3420 z. Calls, £49,393 ; divs.,
£254,962.
* # #
On present market value Gympie dividends pay
interest at £34 ss. 4d. per cent, per annum ; net profits,
ascertained by deducting calls from divs., £l6 18s. Bd.
* * •
Croydon ernshings for Oct., 2651 tons, 4889 oz.
Calls, £1843 ; div., £1361. Yield for last 10 months is
the field’s record.
# * #
Daring last half-year the Brilliant, Charters
Towers, crushed 11,901 tons stone for 12,2830 z. gold
(£43,243), out of which £12,500 was paid in divs., £625 in
div.-lax, £1734 on new machinery, and £lOOO carried to
reserve. Bank credit, £1497; actual profits over ex-
penses, £14,311 10s.
* # #
The replacement of the high-priced Broken Hill
mine-managers by cheaper material, commenced practi-
cally since the strike, has nearly gone once round now.
Proprietary-manager Howell and Block 10 Warren are
practically the only representatives of the old-time crowd
left, but the former, since the resignation of metallurgist
Schlapp, is comparatively safe.
* # *
Dear Bulletin, —You say “something more
definite is wanted re the real value of the discovery in the
Inglewood United (Gympie).” Well, it has an immense
reef—with nothing visible therein. And yet it is from
this that the Boz. per ton parcel of stone recently treated
in Brisbane is said to come. But don’t you think that
with such a bonanza in sight shares should be worth more
than Bjd., their present quotation?—Whim House.
• * #
Sunlights, at Hillgrove, steadily creep up, and
now there are more buyers than sellers. The present
writer's advice is to watch well developments in the
bottom tunnel, and if you can’t do that leave them alone.
* * #
Providence favours the Coolpardie boom.
Abundance of rain has fallen there, and shares have been
watered in consequence thereof.
# * #
Apropos of thousands of old and recent mining
developments—Why should directors be paid fees? Why
shouldn’t the right of bolding seals on company-boards
be put up at auction? It would pay many directors to
bid handsomely for the right of holding their places.
The wretched shareholders only get served after the
directors have not only cleaned out the pie, but actually
licked the plates.
# * *
Editor Bulletin, —Mount Morgan Co. hasn’t,
during the present year, paid £51,200 in div.-duly. It has
not paid much more than that altogether; and during
present year it has paid otdy about £ll,OOO. Also, the
div.-duty is not a” good, healthy tax in Queensland;” it is
as lopsided as ‘‘God Save the Queen.” For instance;
one man owns a mine like Mount Morgan and he pays no
tax, a Co. owns a mine like Mt. M. and pays a tax.
Furthermore, it is a clumsy piece of legislation through
which a knowing hand can drive a bullock.team. An
Income-tax would be a good, healthy tax.—T.B., Q.
# # •
Mr. Wm. Jennings, of Sydney, has returned
from Murchison,W.A., with some very pretty specimens
of gold quartz—specimens which are an object lesson it# 6
the deposition of gold. The quartz is semi-transparent
with the gold in fine grains deposited in the mass of the
stone.
* * *
Evolution. Years ago when the manager of the
Silver King mine. Barrier, reported the auriferous value
of the lode be was told ids business was to find siber.
Now parcels of the formation are being treated for gold,
and the pioperty is known as the King gold-mine.
*' * *
The writer has received one explanation of the
reason and result of metallic antimony being in London
nearly four times the value of 50 tier cent. prc—the
smelters are all rich men and work in combination to
keep down the price of raw ore. One hundred tons of
50 per cent, will, allowing for loss, produce 40 tons metal;
the difference in value is nearly £6OO. A State metal-
works in N.S.W, would remedy this as well as other
English ring-robberies, and be the means of employing
hundreds of miners.
« # •
Good old Father Curran has been trying to
teach the Swamp Oak miners to dolly and pan-off. By
the way, what has become of the other clerical mining lec-
turer? Their optimism and flattery have been too mono-
tonous, and their anticipations too disappointing. To
balance things, some mining expert should become a
clergyman and patent a soul-saving process.
* * *
Somebody writes : “ Golden Gully, N.S.W., has
closed for six months. The rottenest thing in mining in
this country is the ease with which suspension of labour
conditions can be obtained. A ’cute syndicate can work
the oracle so as to keep pioperty idle almost for ever.”
True ; but this has no application to the shareholders of
the G.Q., who have worked the mine continuously for
seven years, and thereby lost £20,000. Surely they are
entitled to a little breathing-time !
* » *
The British Inspector-General in Bankruptcy
has published his annual report. From this it appears
that only 2 per cent, of the big financial failures of 1892
resulted from accidental circumstances. The majority of
the bankrupts came to grief through unduly covetous
speculation, 14 per cent, of them went bung through
drink and gambling, and about 20 per cent, were adven-
turers who started without any capital. An Australian
Inspector-General would have a pretty story of 1892 to
tell. His report on the insolvencies of Davies, Munro,
Pink, and fifty other Melbourne worthies, for instance I
They would come under the new heading of Bank-Bubble
Bankrupts—cause of failure, ‘‘lnability of the country to
provide sufficient funds.”
» « «
Plenty of good four, five and six-roomed houses
in Brunswick, Vic., to let at 2s. 6d. a week.


IfiESBOagB
<3-0 -to HELL-
-IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
t tratis.
35. A. VIND T N & CO.,
It ELIZABETH STUEET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
sa
mm
aw
Unfit
nlli
sllli
m
i¥&
L%
IiL'MI
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
DO YOU SUFFER
from
LIVER COMPLAINT,
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
HEARTBURN,
FLATULENCE,
Or any symptoms of a disordered digestive
apparatus ? If so, there is no remedy in the world
so safe and sure to give relief as Fletcher’s Pills
and Clements Tonic. Don’t be misled into wast-
ing time and money on any of the “All-failing”
nostrums so speciously advertised by designing
quacks and dishonest rogues. Remember, these
two remedies have stood the test of time, that
their merits are proved, and that a few shillings
invested in them may save you weeks and months
of suffering, and, perhaps, pounds of expense, for
they have done so in hundreds of cases, and we
will send you evidence to prove our assertions
on receipt of your name and address. Remember,
delay is dangerous, and that every hour you
neglect your case the complication increases and
a cure becomes more difficult. Shun the cheap
quack doctors and designing nostrum com-
pounders ; stick to the remedies, Clements Tonic
and Fletcher’s Pills. They are absolutely genuine,
and have proved their efficacy in hundreds of
cases and will do so every time. They are sold
everywhere and made only by F. M. Clements,
Newtown, Sydney.
Personal Items.
Parkes has a private diary which, he says>
he is willing to sell for <£20,000.
Thos. Driscoll, a Recherche Bay (Tas.)
policeman, has a family of 25 16 boys and 9 girls.
Not long since Tyson’s Tinnenburra
station had, according to book-muster, over 60,000
cattle.
Victorians were struck by the resemblance
of Gov. Duff to Max Hirsch, the local Single-tax
apostle.
Annie M‘Yicar, Phillips’ servant, who
identified murderer Glasson, has been engaged as
waitress by a Carcoar hotelkeeper.
Andrew Brown, J.P. of Bowenfels
(N.S.W.), lately celebrated his 96th birthday.
He has resided on the spot for half a century.
Parkes told a Melbourne audience that he
had created over 100 M.’sL.C. in Sydney. The
Australian Washington is indeed the father of his
country.
John Cavanagh, father of Mrss Cavanagh,
tomahawked to death by Glasson, threatens legal
proceedings against anyone exhibiting or selling
photos, of the dead girl.
The Bulletin is assured that “Alfred
Saunders,” whose thrift letter to a Sydney daily
paper is now a classic, is a reality and not a myth,
as has been generally supposed.
The shorthand writer in Speight v. Syme
is paid <£3s a week. Justice Hodges made an
order at the outset that the reporter should be
paid daily, each side contributing half.
English papers say that the next Q.
Governor will be West Ridgeway, lately pro-
minent in connection with the Morocco trouble.
He is under 50 and of undoubted ability.
Glasson, the Carcoar murderer, was a
competitor at the N.S.W. Amateur Championship
Athletic Meeting of ’9O, and was third in the long
jump, won by Cuff, the Maoriland crack.
When S.A. Premier Kingston gets into a
row you can always see the same strange mixture
—lrish and Portuguese. “Tread on the tail o’
me coat —but moind the dagger underneath !”
Anglican Bishop Kennion, of Adelaide,
will be back again next month, having once more
failed to strike a patch in England, despite the
fact that James Fergusson, M.P., is his brother-
in-law.
Editor Bonython, of S.A. Advertiser,
apparently has faith in the future of S.A. journal-
ism. Two of his sons have already joined the
Advertiser staff, and the third is being prepared
for a similar fate.
A very old N.S.W. identity died recently
at Northampton (Eng.), in the person of the
widow of George Crawley, merchant, of Sydney,
and daughter of Bishop Broughton, first Anglican
Bishop of Australia.
Francis Adams’ will has been proved in
London. J. W. Longsdon, of 1 St. Andrews-
road, Surbiton, has in hand all his literary work,
and requests that any communications on the
subject may be addressed to him.
“ An.lrew-street,” Windsor, Melb., where
Deeming murdered his wife, Emily Mather,
was called after the late Prof. Andrew, of Melb.
University. At the time, Andrew was head-
master of Wesley College, Windsor.
The photograph from the twelve-feet-high
picture of Premier G. Republican Dibbs in
Windsor uniform, published by The Bulletin
last week, was originally “authorised” for the
Imperial Service Magazine. “ Man proposes,”
&c.
On November 10 Willoughby Andrew had
completed his fourth year in gaol for the murder
of hosier Bartlett at Sydney. He hopes for
release and exile at the end of five years—but is
the sort of person who should be carefully kept in
gaol.
A recent article in a London paper is
entitled ; “ The Australian Irrigation Colonies,
by the celebrated Australian explorer, Guy
Boothby.” The idea that every Australian is a
celebrated explorer seems to have taken firm root
in England.
A clerk in the employ of Fred. Lassetter,
of Sydney, once went up alongside that gentle-
mansmelling very strongly of cloves. “Look here,
young man,” said the boss, “I don’t like cloves.
Here’s sixpence—go and have a drink of whisky.
It’s not nice, but it smells forty times as honest as
what you’ve been chewing.”
Photo, by Talma] [Swanston-st., Melb.
SIGNORINA OLGA METTLER.
(Of Williamson Musgorve Italian Opera Co.)
The veteran pony, ridden for years by Old
Dean (R.C.), of Northern N.S.W., “ pegged
out,” and the jolly local Anglican parson, who
had just heard the news, was commiserating with
his reverence. “So your old horse is gone at last,
Dean.” And then (with a chuckle): “I suppose
his soul is in Purgatory now?’ “No,” replied
the Dean meditatively, “ I’m afraid he’s in hell.”
“In hell!” “Yes—the blaggard became a Pro-
distant two days before he doyed.”
Melb. Age’s annual article on the Prince
of Wales, due 9th Nov., is one of the most aggra-
vating features of a peculiarly distressing paper.
It is eloquent of that journal’s constitutional
vacillation. Starting out with a chronicle of un-
savoury items from Tummy’s history, it grows
righteously indignant over his incapacity and
moral turpitude, and concludes, after loyal reflec-
tions on his sunny temper, kindness of heart and
gratifying urbanity, with a comfortable assurance
that England is justifiably satisfied with him, as
he will probably fill the throne with credit when
his ma departs.
Clark Russell has written a romance called
“ The Emigrant Ship.” The hero lands in Sydney
in 1851, and writes ’Ome about the “ larrikin on
the street-corner.” This is only about 20 years
before that Australian product made his first
appearance in his birthplace—-Melbourne. Then
there is an account of “an Australian meal at
Darlinghurst.” Here is the menu d la Clark
Russell:—“ Wallaby-tail soup, wonga wonga
pigeon, kangaroo vension. And for dessert
plantains, guavas and cherimoyas.” He got his
particulars from that great Australian explorer,
who also discovered the moon —Calvert.
A while back two Kintore boys were
bailed up by a policeman for racing their ponies
up and down an Adelaide street. When they gave
their names the policeman remembered their
august parentage, but with a mighty effort he
conquered the impulse to grovel, and threatened
to run the lads in if they did it again. Kintore
pere, hearing of this, was deeply affected. Like
Henry the Fourth (in the Judge Gascoigne story),
he thanked Heaven that his kingdom contained a
‘ slop” who didn’t fear to threaten the Gover-
nor’s son. Also, the proud earl had serious
thoughts of sending for the constable and giving
him either two shillings or two and sixpence as a
mark of esteem.
The Dibbs testi-
monial has closed
with something over
<£3500 subscribed,
which at four per
cent, in Treasury
bonds will give the
N.S.W. Premier and
his wife <£l4o a
year.
Orangemen who
prate of their loyalty
should note that
Dad d y Alexander,
founder of the Aus-
tralian branch, for
years carried the
warrant of his lodge
sewn in his tunic,
and by doing so risked
grave penalties for
breaking the law.
Cabled that “the
monument erected at
Florence by Miss
T. C >hen, in memory
of Miss Pearson,
the Red Cross nurse,
has been unveiled.”
Who is Miss T.
Cohen ? And who
was Miss Pearson ?
Miss T. Cohen gets
ahead in the advt.,
anyhow.
Metaphor from
Baronet Clarke’s writ-
ten speech at the
Colonial Bank meet-
ing in Melb. : “ The
ski/ of our prosperity
is darkened by the
eclipse of depression.”
Clarke (whose interest
in the Colonial is
about .£287,000) is
absolutely the worst
speaker in Melbourne
and has committed
some lovely “bulls”
in his time. On e
afternoon, at a blind
asylum concert, he
announced that “the
next song would be
‘Rockof Ages.’”
Mrs. Glasson is getting signed a petition
for the reprieve of her husband. The first person
asked was Mrs. Cavanagh, mother of the young
girl whom Glasson murdered in mistake for Mrs.
Phillips, and who signed without hesitation.
Should the Matabele King, Lobengula, be
captured alive, he will be exiled toßooben Island,
five miles off the Cape—the dumping-ground for
political prisoners, lepers, and other sores of the
nation. Cetewayo died there. A much-married
man (he had considerably over 100 wives when
caught, and was adding to his collection), he
petitioned the Govermfi’ent not to break up his
happy home, but to allow his wives to follow him
into exile. The request was considered too large,
and four only were allowed. Very much a
widower, he picked the fouryoungest of his harem
and, as a last resort, pleaded to be permitted to
change them once a quarter. Refused. Grass-
widows were plentiful in the land when Cetewayo
was exiled, and there will probably be another
good crop when Lobengula is caught.
A Parkes story. When the old man con-
tested Argyle against John Osborne he had a most
enthusiastic meeting—containing, apparently, but
one dissentient, who, at the close of the great
statesman’s speech asked, from the rear of the
hall, a question which, inaudible on the platform,
created a storm of buohoos in the questioner’s
neighbourhood. Parkes, in great good humour,
expostulated with the gaggers. “ Let the gentle-
man ask his question,” magnanimously said he.
The gentleman did ask his question, which was :
“ When are yer goin’ to pay me the pound y’owe
me from Sydney for cab-hire?” “Of course it
was a lie,” remarked the ancient to a reporter
afterwards, “I never owed any cabman any pound,
but all the same letting that rascal ask that question
was about the greatest mistake of my whole
political career.”
A correspondent tells The Bulletin, re a
par. in last issue, that James Snowden Calvert,
J.P. (after whom the Calvert river, Gulf of Car-
pentaria, was named), died at Forest Lodge,
Sydney, about eight years ago, in comfortable
circumstances. “He was a thorough bushman,
and a first-class judge of horseflesh. He refused
to join Leichhardt’s second expedition because
‘ that gentleman was impracticable, and would not
take advice from other members of the party in
times of danger : their lives were often in jeopardy
from this failing.’ Mr. Calvert, who was liberally
marked with spear-wounds, received in conflict
with the N.Q.* aborigines, was for many years
returning-officer for Yass Plains, in which district
he resided as managing partner of a cattle-run at
Cavan, on the Murrumbidgee. His partner was
the late Mr. Castles, Principal of the Grammar
School, Newtown. Both men have left their
marks for good on this continent.”
John Haynes’ proposal to place on N.S.W.
Estimates .£l5OO additional compensation to the
girl M'Whannel involves questions of vital in-
terest to the Democracy, “ Are the Supreme
Court Judges at liberty, in defiance of a jury’s
verdict, to estimate the value of a child’s limb
according to the present worldly position of the
parents ?” “In awarding damages for the loss of
a limb through carelessness, should any distinc-
tion be drawn by the Law between the child of a
labourer and the child of (say) a Supreme Court
Judge ?” This is one of the subjects on which the
Labour-party must vote en bloc. Justice will not
be done until, by vote of the present or some
future Parliament, the girl gets in full the jury-
awarded £3OOO and all costs. No more definite
challenge to the people has ever been thrown out
by any legal tribunal under the British flag than
7iA^ r t~ > A\A^ov a V'
“AN ILL WIND,” &c.
1ST CITY UNEMPLOYED : “Where are yer goin’ with that spade?”
2ND DITTO: “I’m off ‘out back’—the Government will have any
amount of swaggies to bury when the squatters knock off
‘feeding travellers. ’”
that implied by the decision of N.S.W. Full Court
in the case of the girl MWhannel.
Bishop Grimes (R.C.), of Christchurch,
M.L., who opposes female franchise, reckons that
it will more than double the present R.C. vote.
“I know,” said he lately before 400 Catholic
women, “ that I have but to intimate my wish,
and you will give me credit for sufficient wisdom
to guide you aright. When the time comes to
vote, the coarse of action to be followed will be
pointed out to you. . . You are not to pledge
yourselves to any candidate, but to look to your
bishops and priests who are your best friends and
guides.” This, by the way, is an exact realisa-
tion of Jules Simon’s prediction as to the effect of
woman-franchise.
The Hispano-Moorish war looks, at this
distance, like a well-managed scheme which ought
to end in a very satisfactory annexation. France
and England both want Morocco badly, and
before a second-rate Power like Spain is allowed
to take it, it must show a very substantial provo-
cation indeed. Therefore, when the Mohamme-
dans began to disturb Melilla, it was advisable to
lure them on till their riot became a furious war-
one that would be full justification for anything
which might ensue. The little Spanish garrison
of 300 men, which was left to face 20,000 well-
armed assailants of the best fighting race in
Africa, seems to have been deposited in its
exposed situation principally as a bait for the
local patriot, and at latest advices he was biting
freely. In any case, the Moorish campaign is a
lot more healthy reading than the Matabele
butchery. There is, at least, some reasonable
equality between the combatants, and the reports
sound a little more like the description of a battle-
field, and less like the photograph of a butcher’s
shambles.
HIS HONOR CHIEF JUSTICE WAY.
(Acting-Governor of South Australia.)
Under the present S.A. vice regal regime
it will be passible for the Lieut.-Governor, whose
portrait is here given, to officially receive a
bogus nobleman one month and to send him
to prison for false pretences the next. Mr. Way
is now performing both gubernatorial and judicial
duties. During the first two days of his vicarious
rule he figured at two official luncheons and one
stately dinner. His Honor desires to make
manifest how much better Adelaide is with the
local dignitary than under the sway of the
departed Earl.
“Great rejoicings have been occasioned
at the Scotch seat of Sir Wm. Gordon-Cumming,
(hero of the historic baccarat scandal) on the
birth of a son and heir. Lady Gordon-Cumming
and the infant are progressing most satisfactorily.
Sir William and his wife (the rich Yankee girl
who married him after he had lost his slander-
action) are idolised by their tenantry and re-
tainers, and beloved and respected by all loyal
friends; they have been able to verify the old
saying, ‘ Friends are proved by adversity.’ ” —Ex.
In an Argus report of a meeting at which
E. G. Fitzgibbon proposed the toast of the Vic.
Municipalities, and referred to his own past
efforts in his usual magniloquent manner, the line
occurs, “This was followed by other boasts."
But the most shocking printer’s error on record
related to a sentence which an Argus writer
wished to read: “Australia will yet be among
the greatest wine-producing countries,” etc. The
mistake occurred re the word “ wine,” and you
can invent it for yourself. Another paralyser
was when a Sydney D.T. compo., in setting the
name of “ Louise ” Pomeroy, transposed two
letters thereof.
Thus a Vic. Bulletin correspondent:—
Parkes, addressing an intelligent audience of workmen,
at Melb. Democratic Club, was a long-winded failure.
The aged egotist piped out a number of geographical
facts which most of his listeners already had at their
fingers’ ends ; he told them that the work of “ good
government” was the nearest earthly approach to the
work of God ; he informed them that during his twelve
years of Premiership in N.S.W. he had created no fewer
than a “hunderd” members of the nominee Council,
and, in a dreary, roundabout way, he arrived at the con-
clusion that a Federated Horstralia was most desirable.
But there wasn’t the ghost of an original idea to relieve
the tedium of all this palaver. The only conviction
Parkes brought home to anybody’s mind was the convic-
tion that it doesn’t take much intellect to run a ‘‘Govern-
ment.” The club had invited their hairy guest to
give them Federation in its Democratic aspects,
to discuss the social advantages of Republican-
ism, or show cause why a President would he
less desirable than a Gracious Queen. Parkes, on the
other hand, came there merely to maunder. At the
expiration of ninety minutes he finished maundering.
By that lime he stood confessed as a “Liberal” who
deeply respected the House of Peers, and felt kindly
disposed towards the silken bonds. “ I ham an Hinglish-
man,” was Barkis’s only apology for belauding the
democratic aspect of dukes, and although he didn’t
intend it for an apology, the statement was accepted assuch.
Otherwise the club would have been obliged to snort at
the o’d fetish in a well-defined manner, instead of gazing
with pity on his w'hite hairs. Later on, Hancock mounted
the platform and snorted for the company in general, but
Hancock is an unsatisfactory earthquake whose scorn
makes very little difference.
THE LAWMAKER.
(As we see him, day by day.)
An ounce of brains in a ton of brass,
A grain of wit in a world of gas,
Two long ears and a coat of gray,
A loud hee-baw and a tuneful bray ;
A throat athirst and a palate dry,
A ruddy nose and a fishy eye ;
A ribald jest and a ribald jeer,
With a quaint supply of a language queer;
A balmy breath exhaling gin,
A triple paunch and a double chin ;
A front of steel and an iron jaw,
A hide of proof and a hungry maw;
An itching palm and a grasping paw—
And this is the ?/j an that makes the law.
P. LUFTIG


PHOTOGRAPHY.
35
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal A.rcad.e, Sydney.
Messrs. CHARLEMONT invite the Public to
inspect their fine display of High-Art Portrai-
ture, which cannot be surpassed.
To The Deae.—A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 3!) Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S a W.
Cu-i J-4
cH&tadaoho
fttfuAj M} (\xaj4(aXx}
*AS.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Should Jabez Balfour be captured it will
be a noble example to—Victoria.
Parkes, during various terms of office,
raised .£3,851,291 by sales of N.S.W. Crown lands.
Dibbs, .£333,097.
Premier Kingston keeps back the S.A.
Estimates. Shou'd the taxation schemes fail,
then wholesale reductions in public service.
It is rash to prophesy, but the editor of a
widely-circulated Sydney daily predicts that 60
Labour members will be returned at N.S.W.
general election.
“During a dispute as to who should act as
steersman a scuffle took place, the boat was cap-
sized, and nine Maoris drowned.” Memo, for
Australian Labour party.
Victoria is now floating a loan of £150,000
to cover the loss incurred in floating her recent
triumphal loan of £2,107,000. Consider the
borrowed money, how it grows.
South Australia has already paid the
squatters £750,000 for improvements made on
Grown leases, and before 1907 a further sum of
£1,923,689 has to be thus disbursed.
One thing was plainly demonstrated at
N.S.W. Labour Electoral Conference ; the venom-
ous envy with which nearly all the delegates
regarded the present Labour members.
In Melb. City Council elections, only two
sitting members were opposed, and both were
thrown out for combating the fixing of “a mini-
mum wage ” for corporation labourers.
“The Prince of Wales’ Birthday,”pointed
out Parkes, in N.S.W. Assembly, “is unknown
in England as a public holiday.” And yet Parkes
helped to make it a holiday in N.S. Wales.
A motion has been tabled in S.A. As-
sembly preventing Government legal work being
entrusted to any but the Crown Law offices. At
present, half the profession battens upon the
State.
Christchurch (M.L.) Truth: “Verynearly
2000 questions were asked of Ministers during the
past session, and hardly six of them were intel-
lectual enough to have been asked in any bar-
parl mr. ”
“Toby” Barton will contest Fitzroy at
N.S.W. general election. It comprises Potts
Points —and Woolloomooloo. Toby is one of the
very few men alive who are thoroughly popular
at both places.
The typical N.S.W. candidate: “Mr. P,
H. Morton, M.P. for Shoalhaven, addressed
about 150 electors last night. He favoured free-
trade and federation, and was opposed to the Dog
Registration Act.”
The N.S.W. churches are especially
anxious that electors should vote only for men
of “established character.” Well, Matthias
Larkin and F. Abigail aio men of established
character, for instance.
In a previous session of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment there were over 400 divisions. Had the
Labour-party had to hold a caucus on each of
these subjects, so as to vote solidly, they would,
reckoning the sitting days, have held over two
caucuses a day, and would probably have found
that the House had settled a lot of the questions
without waiting for their return from caucus.
The lady . inmates of
Maoriland convents have
registered as Parliamentary
voters.
The ordering of a
medical investigation into
the mental state of Glasson
was pronounced by the
majority of the N.S.W.
Cabinet a n undiplomatic
act, and it was only after
heated discussion that the
“front” was taken off the
exploit by the issue of a
similar order in respect to
the condemned Chinaman,
Jimmy Hoy.
B. R. Wise, last week,
in N.S.W. Assembly, said
that “the judicious, satis-
factory working of the legal-
tender note statute was at-
tributable, not to the Go-
vernment at all, but to the
courage, ability, and integrity
with which it was adminis-
tered by the banking institu-
tions.” Which spot of grease
looks as if B.R.W. was try-
ing to make his political
ipeace with the banks afore-
said. But that’s not the way
to get on in po’itics. The
! big leader must not exude
compliments. He must be
a man of mana and heavy in
the jaw.
The Mayor of Charters Towers (Qj,) cabled
'Gladstone congratulating him on the passage of
the Home Rule Bill through the Commons. The
reply came by letter addressed : “ Mr. Missing-
ham, Mayor, Charters Tower, Melbourne, Aus-
tralia.”
The new Tas. Parliament is to be elected
before Christmas. This will perhaps spoil
Braddon’s chances of a seat, at which many would
rejoice, as the ex-Agent-General is looked upon
as nothing but a place-hunter.
Good idea—from a parson : Every mil-
lionaire should be arrested on suspicion of having
no visible lawful means of support, and made to
show how, in times of such great distress, he
became possessed of so much wealth.
Under the N.S.W. Parliamentary caucus
system it would be a spectacle for the gods to see
a teetotal politician explaining to a meeting of
parsons how he voted for heavy compensation to
publicans because the caucus had so decided.
The Civil Service Club, mooted in Melb.,
will be a more cautious proceeding than that
adopted at the last general election. Then the
association issued an impudent circular, warning
candidates that it commanded 30,000 votes.
Sydney E. News, which has been incon-
sequentially arguing against Chinese and Afghans
as Australian co-workers for several months past,
has now, still forgetting that it is a Freetrade
journal, begun denouncing Greek and Latin fruit-
vendors.
The wife of a Dunedin (M.L.) candidate
for the mayoralty applied for a municipal vote by
right of a lease of her husband’s greenhouse which
she had obtained. This was done openly and
before the public, and to the surprise of everybody
the application was refused.
E. News (Sydney) advb. :
xyANTED, Canvassers for a Popular Candidate for
” the Bur wood Electorate. Standard price, un-
popular candidate, 2d. per head ; popular candidate,
Id. per signature. By letter, L.L., P. 0., Burwood.
“ How requisitions are arranged.”
Robert Stout, the cold-tea infidel of Maori-
lartd, in a recent teetotal address, spoke wailfully
of drink, “ the cause of so many women’s tears,
of so many women’s prayers." It recalls somehow
that other infidel who smote his chest and said
sternly : “Thank God, I in an atheist!”
The old fashion of “catching the Speaker’s
eye” is being reformed out of existence in S.A.
Assembly. Mr. Coles always has a list of intend-
ing orators in a big debate and calls upon them in
rotation, irrespective of their rising and sometimes
despite the fact that someone else is first on his
legs.
Since policemen have superseded atten-
dance-officers under N.S.W. Department of
Public Instruction, will it not happen that the
constables, being under direction of local magis-
trates, as they assuredly are, will neglect to take
action where friends of the “great unpaid ” are
defaulters?
Melb. Trades Council refuses to supply
particulars of the strength, finances, etc., of
unions to the Govt, statist, averring that the dis-
closure of this information places the unions at a
disadvantage with “unscrupulous employers.”
The unionists are learning the value of reticence
rather late in the day.
While Bruce Smith was speaking at Syd-
ney Womanhood-suffrage meeting, he was loudly
hissed by some interrupters. As the hisses con-
tinued, Miss Scott besought order. Anyone who
knows Bruce Smith will be violently amused at
the idea of a lady interposing on his behalf. A
taste of the coming time !
A blunt farmer, attending a S. A. deputa-
tion recently, scandalised the surrounding poli-
ticians by addressing the dignified Speaker Coles,
as —“Now, my good man .” The blasphemous
horror is explained by the fact that the farmer
is a political constituent of Mr. Coles. Otherwise
thunderbolts would have fallen.
“It is well the decisive battle has been
fought and won before the foolish statesmen who
wanted to save a little ammunition by making a
treaty with Lobengula had time to interfere.”
THE IMPENDING COAL MONOPOLY-FAIR EXCHANGE.
So moralises the respectable Argus. The states-
men are only credited with wanting to save a little
ammunition; niggers don’t count.
Sydney Daily Telegraph ridicules
attempts to forcibly suppress gambling, con-
tending that a passion so generally diffused as
gambling is should be a matter of State regulation
and not of attempted suppression. But imme-
diately afterwards it vigorously argues in favour
of local option in the drink traffic !
In deciding that all Labour members must
vote fora non-graduated land-tax without exemp-
tion, the N.S.W. Labour Electoral Congress lias
(at the instance of the Single-taxers) played a bad
card. The country is agreed on a land-tax; but a
non - graduated - land - tax-without - exemption pro-
posal will split the Democratic vote to bits.
Colemane & Sons, Limited, of Coofca-
mundra (N.S.W.), have received the Gold Medal
at Chicago for their Eucalypte preparations—mz.,
Eucalypte Extract, for coughs and colds;
Eucalypte Special Oil, for external use; Eucalypte
Honey, for children specially ; Eucalypte Rose, for
dysentery and bleeding, etc., etc.
The Leongatha (Vic.) Labour Colony
proves an excellent training-ground where workers
are prepared to receive small wages and be thank-
ful. After a course of hard labour on wretched
rations for nothing a week worth mentioning, the
worker catches on at once when the boss cookie
near by offers him 7s. a week and decent food.
Johannesburg Diggers’ News on the
Bishop of Derry’s earnest appeal to the Chartered
Co. to cut Matabele throats :
Up there, in Ma-ihonaland, the Gospel-spreader has,
after all, only two alternatives-either to agree with the
white policy and to praise it, or to go hungry, with the
Chartered brow frowning upon him at every turn. . . .
A veritable crop of them has arisen to swear the native’s
life away and to cry out in shrill treble, “Civilise,
Civilise, Civilise !” Manifestly Cecil Rhodes knew what
he was doing when he gave his countenance to the cleric,
assisted in the creation of Sees, and introduced the
machinery of the Church as part and parcel of a political
policy. . . . And a full blown bishop was turned on
to tell a wondering world how gross a brute Lobengula is,
and how saintly a person is Cecil Rhodes.”
Landseer, M. P.
(S. A.), who has offended
the squatters by support-
ingthe Progressive Land-
tax, lately got from a
station-manager a letter
containing this blistering
phrase : “ And may you
go to hell possessed of no
more earth than you can
stuff under your dirty
finger-nails !” Another
sheep-farmer has publicly
boasted that he hopes
before he dies to compass
the ruin of Landseer,
who is largely interested
in the Murray River
trade and the carriage of
wheat and wool.
A Bulletin corres-
pondent in England asks
if any steps are contem-
plated to recover the
arrears of rent due to
N.S.W. Govt. on account
of rents of church and
school lands, which must
amount to an immense
sum, and which would be
a great help to a depleted
Treasury. Many years
ago our correspondent re-
ceived a minor appoint-
ment in the Treasury,
and there being nothing
else for him to do, he
was told to make out a
schedule of debtors for
overdue rents. He set to
work with a vigour born
of inexperience in the
service, and compiled a
list, which included so
many names of big men
that the then Under-
secretary put the docu-
ment in his desk, caution-
ing the youngster (who
was promptly promoted
out of the department)
not to say anything about
it. Many of the deb-
tors were back-and-edge
political supporters of
Oowper’s, hence the len-
ity of the Government of
the day.
When land-tax is talked of, S.M. Herald
insists that taxes are evils and that necessity for
income is the only justification for imposing them,
but when N.S.W. Legislative Assembly voted
free education last week that paper declared that
school-fees (which are taxes) were sound in prin-
ciple and should be maintained at all hazards.
The N.S.W. Freetraders claim the local
copyright of the Land-tax. Now, points out Mark
Hammond, the second reading of the Land-tax
Bill of 1886, introduced by the Dibbs-Jennings
Government, was carried by 55 votes to 6, more
than one-half the majority being Protectionists,
while most of those opposed to it were Free-
traders, Land-tax is, therefore, strictly a non-
party question.
“ Any man contesting an electorate in the
interests of labour, and after his election wishing
to nurse his own fads, or ‘principles,’ as he called
them, should stand aside and leave others, not
troubled by such inconvenient impediments, to
take his place." Noble sentiment by Sleath at
N.S.W. Labour Electoral Conference, denounced
by labour-leader Cook as “dishonest, conscience-
less, and unprincipled."
A modified form of the American system
of relegating parliamentary work to committees,
has been unofficially adopted in S.A. The
“Country party" (nearly half the Assembly)
delegated E. W. Hawker to take charge of their
amendments on the Workmen’s Liens Bill; Cald-
well was given similar charge of the Pastoral Bill,
and Handyside of the Crown Lands Bill. Result
—an enormous saving in time.
Queensland Worker lately found it neces-
sary to exhort bush men not to look upon the Para-
guay movement as a confession of utter despair.
And yet this is what the Paraguay movement
really is. Let Australians remember Renan’s
noble words : “ Many a time the people’s cause
seemed down for ever ; it seemed buried deeply—
its gravestone was securely fastened down; and,
lo ! on the third day it arose from the dead."
Premier Dibbs considers Parkes (we’re
tired saying Parkes, senior—there’s only one
Parkes) the most “sequential” speaker in Aus-
tralian politics. Dibbs means that Parkes holds
to the thread of his discourse and does not bob
about as he himself does. Dibbs knows his own
faults, elocutionary as well as constructive, and
admits frankly that he can’t imagine how “ these
fellows, the reporters,” make him look so decent a
speech maker.
S.A. Register, 4th Sept., 1890:
The increased value which it (land) may acquire it
acquires independently of any exertion on the part of the
owner. Because the ownership of the land is a monopoly
and because its value is thus added to without any exer-
tion on the part of the owner it is held to be a legitimate
object of special taxation, and for the same reason the
amount of the tax should be paid by the person who
claims the right to absorb the added value.
Now, the Register shrieks that such doctrines
“destroy confidence.”
“ They demand smoke-hour, do they ?”
jerked a N.S.W. Supreme Comt judge in a tram
recently. “It simply comes to this : Does the
employer employ a man or does the man employ
the employer, eh?” A stout man, apparently
half-asleep in an off-corner of the carriage, here-
upon got on his elbow and broke in : “I have a
Bill before the House just now to stop all that. I
mean the Bill to prevent judges from marking out
their own vacations.”
In one issue of one of his rag-bag papers;
Pearson’s Society News, Pearson protests his
superior and undying loyalty to the Throne and
Person. The following, re the American Astor,
is clipped from the next issue :
“ There is something hideous in the idea that a single
human being, who might grow up either a knave or a
fool, or both, should have the absolute command of this
colossal amount of money.”
Comparisons are odious.
Richardson, Vic. Minister of Railways,
tries to reconcile the working contingent of his
Department to the excessive reductions in their
wages with the plea that “there must not be too
great a difference between the wages paid to out-
FILIAL CONOIDERATION.
MISTRESS : “I see, Mary Ann, that you have inserted an ‘In
Memoriam’ notice to your mother in to-day’s paper."
MARY ANN: “Yes, ma’am, and if you don’t 'object I’m going to leave
the gas on all night so as she can read it.”
aiders and the wages paid in the railway service.’
Meanwhile outside employers seem animated with
the noble conviction that wages paid Ur workers
m Victoria should not be greater than those paid
to workers in China.
Vic. Parliament having prorogued, there
j s n o danger in demanding •’wealth taxes and
democratic measures, thinks the Age :
The land awaits the tax-gatherer; but there is no
courage in our Legislature to do as the other provinces
C ome. And there is another measure that can scarce
escape coming to the front—the one-man-one-vote pro-
posal.
You don’t say so, David Syme !
According to London Echo, “It is ex-
pected that Lord Glasgow will recommend the
Maoriland Premier for a knighthood before the
end of the year.” Which may mean that Lord
G. will recommend that something bo tried to
induce the Premier to stop talking like-that about
the M.L. Upper House. Or, it may mean that
a n opportunity will be offered Mr. Dick Seddon
of showing whether he really is the man to wear
the shoes of John Ballance. The man who takes
a title tickets himself “SOLD.”
The Land-Values Assessment Bill has
been rejected by S.A. Legislative Council for the
fourth successive session, this last time by the
casting-vote of President Ayers. The Bill was
thrown out “in the interest of the poor man”
by the votes of Addison, Angas, Baker, Bos-
worth, Stirling and Duncan (wealthy squatters),
Copley, Ward and Warren (graziers, &c.), Snnp-
son (capitalist), and Tomkinson (banker). One or
t''’ o °1 these face the electors next April, but two,
elected by the workers, have wisely decided to
retire.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
mi A i■ „ „ n , ■, ■
| ie democratic pi ffiposal to make education
absolutely free m N.S. Wales evoked a whoop
from that rabid Gold Pea person, Glen limes
Hutchinson. if you make education free, said
the Rechabite M.P., “ the money will only go in
l on g-sleevers.” It is this sort of coarse arrogance
which makes other people want so badly to attend
the boss teetotaller’s funeral—or his execution,
jj e j s generally a profoundly illiterate being with
an enormous appetite, but all the same he looks
down from a great moral elevation on all people
who don’t belong to his sect as incipient drunkards
over whom it is his duty to exercise a fatherly
supervision.
AGENTS OF CIVILISATION.
A Bible, a musket, some pious tears
For the state of the Heathen one,
A parson, a, soldier—three British cheers
For Christ and the Maxim gun.


ƒ
fy/fes “jeti
on **
~ » u
lk inf/ <
MELBOURNE 7
k.\ CLU B A
l&ffPlifHflSE
CmK 5
x> avv|^
DERBm
T3A V ' \
Ca. n e e //eel.
Ihe mu ■ -four days7/'c/<e/:
BOOK Mfl Kfl?S
D *r
HOMX
tip x>«r
BOOH IE S' 1
D A Y
THE KIND’S
Dfl r
Year.
—/yv
iti* 9
I
I'
ODDS
f
ƒ
y
REMINISCENCES OF CUP WEEK.


j-TPff)
fa) That a Parliamentary labor party to to of any
weight must give a solid vote In thl> House >
upon all questions —affecting the lapor P ar py* j
the fate of the Ministry, or calculated to es-
tablish a monopoly or confer further privileges
on the already privileged classes—as they arise
(b) That accordingly every candidate who runs in
the labor interest should be inquired to pledge
himself not only to the fighting platform and
the labor platform, but also to vote on every oc-
casion specified in clause A as the majority
of the Parliamentary labor party may in caucus j
decide.
y"
«r-
-—✓
ir' T “C '*
Jjtuu wiling to Pel-
yJortj' *tj 'fij*
pie.ld 5 k/ayf
1o"
Qi'ijes/ Who Will
, I 11 7 "
0 7
uC/fiil
/l sf
oj.
ifi cup
f or m, v _
*■ -J n<U jbajber
, c
L, S “°r .
n i^\l x i ¥ v ' V H
TO THU EDITOR OF THE DAILYJELEORAPH.
Sir,—l can partly corroborate your Mail*
land correspondent’s remarks re imprison-
ment of children. About four months ago
there were two such boys in Parramatta
gaol. One, in particular, was a poor little
baby, he looked Jtot more than nine or 10.
All day and all/bight he ■ was sobbing and
crying aloud for his mother. He was doing
three .reeks (under-the amended regulations,
for those nude 29 years and sentenced to
six or less).
f
ƒ
MOSTLY IN SYDNEY.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
J3lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
Vho will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
f
Wonderful discovery!
ROSS’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
...
mHIS Lotion cures Swelling .and Sand// Itliyht,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Siyht.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strenythens the siyht. By po.it, 3s. per Bottle.
Manufactured Solely by 11. ICO *E. C'iicniisl,
631 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
There is no danger to human life more to be
dreaded than that which arises from vitiated
blood. Dyspepsia, rheum itism, headache, and
general debility, all result from it, and are cured
uy the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Scorn \
Scrubby |
Imitations \
Sold by |
Scurrilous
Scoundrels 1
4
Drink only
WOLFE’S
Schnapps
Buy Whole
Bottles
and look
out for
£ l
Orders.
Society
The drawli g swell, who is nephew and
heir of half-a-dozen dukes, has turned up again in
Melbourne He became engaged to the daughter
of a gilt-edged squatter, but, unhappily, could
not hurry on the matter fast enough, and when
the irate jewellers turned to prospective pa-in-law
for payment of the presents given the lady, the
aristocrat s matrimonial prospects dissolved into
thin air. The lordly one s next move was to pro-
pose to the manageress of the institution where
he lodged and thus get six months’ credit. The
soulless directors, however, fired the scion of
nobility into the cold world, and made the fair
victim pay the debt out of her salary.
...
Socially ambitious folk, in Adelaide, force
themselves into publicity by attending first-class
funerals, as the dailies vie with one another in
publishing complete lists of names. The “dear
departed ” is simply used as a stalking-horse.
# * •
, TT . . _ .
\V hen His Excellency and Co. were about
to leave the lawn on Cup day, ropes were stretched
from the vioe-regal box to the gate to keep the
society ladies from biting Lord Hopetoun. Is
be goin’ to walk the rope?” inquired a deep voice
from the crowd. Whereupon everyone looked
dreadfully disgusted.
* * *
It was deemed necessary to post notices
on the railway-station at Flemington this year,
respectfully requesting members of the V.R.O.
not to give their members’ tickets to “women
loitering about the station ! ”
* * *
Dear Bulletin,—“The Sydney people
ha ve taken the present smallpox visitation quite
calmly.” Yes, but is it really smallpox? The
circumstances surrounding the case are all suspi-
c.ous The non-detection of any source of mfec-
tion the withholding of any information as to the
development of the symptoms and the entire
absence of the usual official cackle. It is not so
very long since some Adelaide medicos made asses
of themselves on a similar occasion.—George
Daxt.
• • *
Retrenchment has reached the N.S.W.
sheriff’s department. In future, loeked-up jurors
will be supplied with something approaching the
t.i'.-i, mutton and damper of bygone times; should
CRICKET AT BARGOWLAHMINE.
WICKET-KEEPER: “How’s that?”
LOCAL BOBBY ( umpiring) : “Hout!”
BATSMAN : “Out be blowed. I had my bat"
LOCAL BOBBY: “Hout ye go now, or I’ll damn well run ye in!”
any juryman want liquor at his meals, it must
come out of his ss. per day. It is also said that
condemned men now wear the gaol clothes of the
hangman’s previous victims. At any rate, Herod
Makin was coffined in his gaol shirt only.
# * *
The Argus, howling for Glasson’s blood:
All criminals, and particularly all murderers, are weak
in their intellect-). They must know if they reflect that
the chances are altogether in favour of the discovery of
the crime and of the punishment of the criminal.
“If they reflect!” Talk about a lovely bull!
The N.S.W. hangman has two jobs on
band this month, one at Mudgee and another
about a week later at Bathurst. This arrange-
ment will give the executioner time to travel
across from one town to the other by easy stages
and look at the scenery as he goes along. The
country looks pleasant just now after the south
wind and the rains, and the official man-butcher
should enjoy himself among the blossoms, and
journeying across the grassy plains. A little
poem :
Borne of the women have lately discovered
that a considerable portion of the calves of one
much-adored actor come from Paris —in a box.
• * *
In a N.S.W. court. Detective (wearing a
palpable wig) in witness-box for prosecution.
Prisoner (scornfully, to Judge); “Him! Wy,
he’d try to make yer Honor b’leeve anythink—
afore ’es done I suppose he’ll try to make yer
b’leeve ’is ’air’s ’is own ! ”
# * •
G. W. Barton is for the present to be
allowed £9OO a year to maintain his little step-
daughter, Kathleen Purves Macpherson, heiress
to £70,000, and heroine of the exciting Purves-
Barton law-suit.
# • *
The absurdity of talking legal language to
a coroner’s jury is proved by the verdict of eleven
Melbourne men last week : “We find that Caleb
Amos Kennet died from a bullet-wound through
the heart inflicted by William Henry Main while
in the commission of an unlawful act.”
Justice, as served
out by the cheap and
nasty J.P. The other
day, in Carlton (Melb.), a
wealthy man of weak in-
tellect got away from his
family and went out for
a walk solus, when a
policeman promptly
scruffed him for va-
grancy, and two or three
enthusiastic Js.P. gave
him a month without fur-
ther question. His name
and address were found
on him, but the law made
no inquiries, and the
friends of the feeble capi-
talist only got on his
track after he had been
officially washed and in-
spected in gaol, and just
in time to prevent him
being clean shaved, and
having his hair cut off.
By vigorous exertions he
was got out, and the
amateur Js.P., being
somewhat scared at their
mistake, will now be
chary about committing
anybody for a week or
two, so that some hulking
individual who has par-
tially brained his wife
will be turned loose on
his own recognisances.
• # *
The majority of re-
trenched N.S.W. Civil
servants have started
poultry-farms. Result ;
Fresh eggs per doz.,
retail.
# * #
“A new religious
order of women the
order of the Holy Face —
lately founded within the
R.C. Church, vows per-
petual silence.” Incre-
dible !
When Miss Virginia Earle and fat For-
tescue’s young daughter first came to Sydney
from America they knew nothing about English
money. One day they took a very short cab-ride,
and, on alighting, asked the driver his fare.
“ Eighteenpence,” said he. “ Eighteenpenoe,”
murmured one girl to the other, “how much is
that?” This the driver overheard, and, finding
that he had Yankee innocents in tow, promptly
replied, with great presence of mind, “Three-
shillings-and-sixpence, please.” Paid.
• # »
There is trouble in a Sydney State school
re a teacher who is alleged to get her pupils to
bathe her feet! —like so many fallen penitents of
the olden time, when the disciples walked imtead
of rolling about in carriages.
A N.S.W. back-blocks Bulletin corres-
pondent :
Dear Editor,—Though diggin’ “ with the right fut,”
mys3lf, I think I should tell you of a bill sent to one of his
flock by our financing pistor—
To anointing child .. £lO 0
„ blessing cross .. 5 0
„ burial sermon .. 10 0
Total, £1 15 0
That’s a true bill. Said pastor has land, &c., far, far
away from here, and is there now perhaps lamb-marking.
Wouldn’t it he a touch of sarcasm for his people to
petition his bishop to extend leave till the operation was
finished ?—B.
# * #
The respondent in a Melb. divorce-suit,
heard last week, had “ repeatedly refused to live
ON THE VICTORIAN COAST.
SMUGGLER: “Stop whistling, Bill. The police are about —I’ve just
dropped across their foot-marks.”
with her husband, as she objected to a lonely
life.”
Year after year to share the lot,
And tidy up the humble cot,
Of him who made her wife;
To always kiss the same old phiz :
No change of cast, no change of biz—
It were a lonely life.
* * •
Sheriff Boothby, it is said, lately called
tenders from Mt. Gambier (S. A.) hotelkeepers for
accommodating the Circuit Court party. Prices
were so high that arrangements were being made
with boarding-houses, when the publicans came
down. A good thing for the prisoners, as nothing
but unrelenting ferocity could be expected from a
Judge fed on twice-cooked mutton.
* # *
Sydney Evening News advt. :
"VyISH interview with Pugilistic Gentleman willing
’ ’ to do a bit. Write, etc.
Which would probably be a lot more to the point
and quite as true if translated as follows :
CHORT, terrified man wants to hire hulking brute to
stoush his enemy for him. Pay liberal, provided
the enemy is sufficiently crippled. The stipendiary
bruiser must be willing to go to gaol it necessary.
The police ought to keep an eye on this advertiser.
Also, some authority ought to keep an eye on the
paper which publishes ads. of this description.
The boast of the National Eisteddfod, held
in Sydney, last week, was that as an institution
it was thoroughly “ un-English.” This was the
brag of certain Sydney men who yawp all the rest
of the year in denunciation of everything “un-
English.”
# • #
The Argus devoted four columns to the
statements that “ Miss Smith looked pretty in
pink,” and that “Miss Brown wore white,” &0.,
on the lawn on Cup Day.
• « •
The figure which attracted most attention
at Elemington on Cup Day was that of a gentle-
man of copious avoirdupois, who wore long,
flowing hair, covered with a wide sombrero, a
decollette flannel shirt, and no waistcoat; round
his greatest measurement was a shrieking crimson
sash. He puffed incessantly at a huge cigar and
was taken by a few uninitiated to be Premier
Dibbs. The majority, however, firmly believe
him to be Mr. Mackenzie Bowell, the Canadian
drummer, though a Yankee who alleges he
knew him in the States, swears that he is one
Lord Fitzgerald. Possibly he is. A Lord Fitz-
gerald seems to turn up in Australia every three
months or so, and never the same one twice,
# • *
The loves of a married University pro-
fessor in an Australian province and one of the
sweet girl graduates formerly under him are
causing some interest and speculation among the
cognoscenti. This is a phase in the higher educa-
tion of women that may cause the enthusiasts to
say, with Princess Ida, “ We never thought of
that.”
# • •
A shabby-looking person lately claimed
the medical skill of Melb. Eye and Ear Hospital
for a complicated operation. Ere being placed
under chloroform his boots were removed, and
<£lsoo worth of notes and deposit receipts dis-
covered therein. After the operation, the surgeon
told his patient of the find, mentioning inciden-
tally the maximum term of gaol for false pretences.
The institution ultimately received .£4O fees.
# # *
A sign of the times, at a Melbourne
fashionable theatre, is noticeable in the fact that
the majority of the male visitors remain in their
seats during the intervals. One recent sultry
evening, when the dress circle was filled with
social cream, the writer observed only one man
go out to “see a fellow.” The rest thirsted where
they were.
' » to m
A medical man of
twenty years'practice
in N.S.W., says that
at the beginning of
bis career it needed
courage to forbid
patients the use of
alcoholic stimulants,
whereas now he finds
it requires courage to
ordersuch stimulants.
His opinion as to the
properties of alcohol
has not changed, and
he thinks there is very
little change in that
respect in the body
of medical opinion ;
but popularsentiment
has chan r < d
'a He Anglican
Bishop Webber, of
Brisbane, now collect-
ing for the Church in
Queensland, finds his
mendicant trip
through England and
Scotland a signal fail-
ure, and attributes
this to the fact of s >
much British money
being locked up in
Australian financial
institutions. If those
depositors ha l ai y
humour, they would
half smother Mr.
Webber with cheques
drawn on the exploded
Australian banks.
# •
Even the garden-
ers of Hyde Park,
London, remarks a
Bulletin correspon-
dent, are doing their
utmost to tighten
the fast - slacken : n :
“ si'ken cords.” Tiny
have planted in tin-
beds beside the road
from Hyde Paik
corner to the Marble
Arch clumps of euca-
lyptus saplings. And
well they look, too,
the peculiar reseda-
green fo’i igecontrast
ing most effectively
with the dull green of
the English shrubs.
One glance at the vice-regal party occupy-
ing the State-box at Flemington was sufficient h r
any ordinary brute of a man. Considered in con-
junction with their newspaper celebrity, and
measured by the immensity of their dress descrip-
tion, the appearance of this regiment of cormnon-
place ladies was a pitiful joke. Old, middle-aged,
or young, they were, with one or two mild excep-
fions, unqualified to pass hiust-r in a crowd,
“Howdy ” would be a flattering term to apply to
their general aspect. They hadn’t a pretty face,
a graceful figure, a clever costume, or a pleasing
gmile amongst them. For this awful lack of
beauty and personal distinction, the boxfull of
respectable mothers and daughter’s was not
accountable, of course; yet, in a measure, the
sins of gushing dress-reporters reflect upon
their chosen idols. A public nauseated with
minute accounts of how Lady Thingummy looked
is naturally inclined to ask that she shall either look
worth a paragraph, or be passed over in charitable
silence. One sneers without compunction at an
actress who gets unmerited notice from the critics,
and it seems much more reasonable to sneer at the
humdrum “sassiety ” hen who is described as a
swan . Men don’t complain because the women
j n a vice-regal pen make a poor average show
beside an equal number of other women picked at
random from the vulgar herd, but they certainly
object to being dosed with details of costumes that
were as unattractive as their wearers. This year
it was impossible for the public who saw these
ladies to cultivate any personal interest in their
identities. Some of them were perceptibly older
than others—but apart from the matter of age,
none of them (with the one or two exceptions
aforesaid) had an identity that one could swear
to. They were hopelessly monotonous, absurdly
dull.
* .
It is creditable to the shopkeepers of
Hobart that their employes, numbering some
hundreds, are now enabled to celebrate the ten
years’ anniversary of the institution of the
Wednesday-afternoon half-holiday.
The grass is green ’neath the hangman’s feet
On the ways where the spring and the summer meet;
And the birds flit by on their burnished wings,
And troll in reply when the hangman sings.
Ttie flowers are gay by the hangman’s track
As lie follows the pleasant road “ cut-hack,”
And the lizards flirt through the dewy grass
Like elves, when they hear his footfall pass.
The sun is bright on the hangman’s way,
His shadow’s a blot on the garish day ;
And the native hear, from his perch on high,
Looks down on the Strangler flitting by.
The river gleams like a crystal floor
Where the track meanders beside its shore,
And, reflected upon its mirrory bed,
Goes tha shade of the hangman’s noseless head.
The sky is bright with a stainless blue,
No speck is there on its azure hue ;
And the rainbow spreads its vastly arch
O’er the path where the hangman’s flat feet march.
A fairy lacework the moonshine weaves
Where his haggard skull is among the leaves,
And the west is ribbed as with prison bars,
At dusk, when the Lord hangs out the stars.
The hangman loveth the beauty rare
Of the fields and the woods, and the bright things there;
And he loveth the scents on the summer gale
As he goes to the hanging in Bathurst gaol.


Gold Medal Artificial Tketii, full sets €5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Mislitting Cases Ke
modelled. Painless Extractions wi h Gas or Cocaine,
so nsultations ftee. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, Kiug-
Creet Arcade (George-street entrance.)
Before undergoing operative or other
treatment for Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharp on the
new and successful “Camialin” treatment, 257
George-st., close to Bridge-st., Sydney.*'
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
16 of this issue.
4
sh
'u/hjteJl
BUSHED IQs 3
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OP PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH.
UEBEL and LECHLEITEii, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Goad Makers.
ESXEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 deorge Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
At door of Melbourne bank after closing
time. Caller (to Hibernian janitor); “ I want to
gee the deed-clerk.” “ Phwat’s that?” “I wish
to see the deed-clerk.” “See here, my man, ye’ve
come to the wrong shop wid yer bad language.
The manager’s inside, but there’s no d d clerk
here.”
« * *
“MY PHILOSOPHY.”
Hear, poetaster, me record it:
I ain’t got none; I can’t afford it.
The Dipsomaniac.
* m •
Writes “ Billee Grant ” ;
Dear Bulletix,'— ■Ri your paragraph concerning curly
hair. According to Prof. Sims, curly hair is an indication
of negro taint and a sure sign of a liar. The Prof, is a
man of science and I’m only a poor devil of a sleeper-
cutter, more at home with a broad-axe than with a pen ;
but, all the same, as my hair curls “ naturally and closely
about the head ” I want to talk. The nigger taint and
liar theory, in connection with curly hair, is Rot, with a
capital R. Were the fair, flaxen-haired, blue-eyed Saxons
and Normans of ancient days all straight-haired George
Washingtons? Three-fifths, or more, of the statues,
ancient and modern, have curly heads on their shouldeis.
Art, it seems, does not recognise the Professor’s theory.
Go through any Art Gallery in the world and you’ll find
that even the Heavenly Angels are depicted with curls
clustered round their seraphic brows. So much for
curls. Now for the men with hair like unto thatch.
Reasoning on the same lines as the eminent Professor,
why shouldn’t the straight-haired folk have the taint of
the Chow in their blood ? The Mongolian can date back
quite as fir as the negro, and who, in the name of the
Great Confucius, ever saw a blessed Chinkee with his hair
curled “ naturally and closely about his head?” Then
again, for pure lying, cussedness and deceit, what price
the slant-eyed, straight-haired Chow against the frizzy-
haired nig. ?—Yours, in a rage, B.G.
* * *
A solicitor and a Chow winding-up a busi-
ness transaction, in which the Chow gets home :
Chow: Now, Mr. FleeH, me wantem leoeipt.
Soli utor: Oh, it’s alright, you don’t want a receipt
from me.
Chow : Yash ; me wantem leceipt. Me welly good man,
welly religious Chinamun, number one man allee same
Joss.
Solicitor: There’s no necessity for a receipt in this
matter, John.
Chow: I telle 2 you yash. Bime bye me get welly sick,
me die, me go upstairs talke3 Mr. Peter, me tellee him me
wantem go inside. Mr. Peter say ‘‘No can come inside,
you no get leoeipt Mr. Fleeil.” Then I must do down
along hell find you and get leceipt.
• • »
Hobart now has quite a cheerful Sunday
afternoon. Crowded steamers ply on the Derwent,
the Govt. Railways convey orthodox and un-
orthodox to the various picnic spots at excursion
rates, and brass-bands are in full blast in the
parks,
* m *
Colonel Bell, the new U.S. Consul (hats
off!) in N.S.W. thus debuted at Commodore
Hordern’s yachting dinner :
I have been told that I was a stranger in a strange land.
I cannot believe it. You are not my cousins but my
brothers. (Cheers.) In my heart, in my sympathies, in
my ideas of humanity, I see no difference between an
E iglishman and an American. I belong to one of the
grandest branches of the Anglo-Saxon family. (“ Hear,
hear.”) I am proud that I am an American, of Eng-
lish-Scotoh descent. I do not voice what Mr.
Carnegie says. I like to see your pride in the
English Crown, I like to see your faith in the English
Constitution ; but I want to see the time when the
English, Australian, and American nations are one, and
then you can give your history, you can give your
1 mguage, you can give your beautiful religion to all the
children of God. (Loud cheers.)
Great Scott! Why doesn’t some one tell the
new Colonel that poor Gilderoy Wells Griffin
spoke almost exactly this same piece long ago,
and that the gushy old yarn is played out ? The
American nation and the English nation can
never become one, any more than can the English-
men and the Germans. The Yankees talk a sort
of English, but they think in the great and noble
American language; and the Melican gentleman
who can’t see any difference between an English-
man and an American—well, he always recalls
the Australian-Canadians who owe allegiance
to Uncle Sam on 4th July, and whoop for Queen
Victoria on May 24. It makes one smile to hear
a Colonel, representing amongst other things ten
millions of Germans, ten millions of Irish, ten
millions of coloured people, and a lot of millions
of French, Spanish, Dutch, and Italians, talk
about “ the great Anglo-Saxon race.”
« * •
A Melb. correspondent:—
As the dressm ikers furnish all the Melb. Cup gownery
descriptions why are not their names published in each
case? Thus: “Messrs. Nuckley and Bunn furnished Mrs.
Toadhunlerin ,” &c. Let the woman become the
mere clothes-horse and milliner’s-block that she is. What
a wonderful intellectual record, what a glory of woman-
hood is that four columns of dress in the paper, day after
Melb. Cup ! H ;r>, mind you, is part of the seed of revo-
lutions, the kind of thing which inspired the poor
starving French women to rush to Versailles, and tear out
the King and Queen.
* » *
Give us this day our daily leper. The
last one comes from Newcastle (N.S.W.), and is
reported to be suffering from “a very rare form of
the disease.” In fact be is feelingly quoted as a
valuable ; human curiosity. His occupation con-
sisted in selling infected lollies to the local school-
children, and he has probably left behind him the
germs of a dozen leprosy cases which will develope
later on. Still it is gratifying to know that he
isn’t an alien in the legal sense of the term, but a
British Imperial leper and one of the many ties
that bind us to the beloved mother-land. He is,
in fact, our own federated leper, and when
Imperial Federation comes along he will be our
brother, along with the other leper from Hong
Kong and many more.
* « *
The Deeming curse will be largely spread
by the sale of his “effects.”
# * •
A popular and good-looking Australian
clergyman became engaged the other day to a
pretty and gilded widow of his flock. The day
before the ceremony the pair visited the family
lawyer, who asked the lady if she was aware that
she forfeited her whole fortune by re-marrying.
But they were wed all the same.
* * *
A NUMERICAL LOVE-TRAGEDY.
1
2
. . 3
l.
O. .
—The Pauper.
• * •
In Melbourne now you can buy very good
revolvers at 4s. 9d. each—one Swanston-street
dealer lias several hundreds of them heaped up
loosely in his window. The Bulletin suggests
this as a notice to put on top of the heap ; “ Gheap
Suicide to suit the Times. Revolvers for Recon-
structed Depositors. Revolvers for the Unem-
ployed. Melbourne Cup Revolvers for insolvent
backers. Why remain Alive in this city when
you can die for 4s. 9d. ? Walk in and take your
choice. Diagram showing your Vital Organs
supplied free with each weapon.” When Leo
Percy, the rejected lover of Daisy Montague,
shot her and his rival, Samuel Garcia, in London,
the other day, and then committed suicide, he
’only used four bullets in all. He shot the girl
through the heart and spine, and shot Garcia
and himself through the brain—an almost unique
record for a cranky amateur with a revolver.
* * #
The Earl of Glasgow, during his Cup-
week visit to Melbourne, availed himself of the
opportunity (says the local Standard) “ to become
acquainted with the discipline of the Melbourne
prisons.” So have several other distinguished
visitors, but the papers don’t put it so nicely.
# « #
Dear Bulletin, —Be Chinese oaths. Now-
a-days, if a Cow Lee wants to swear upon a
rooster, he must procure the bird himself. In the
fifties, on the Vic. goldfields, the police provided
the sacrifice, but the expense became so great, and
roosters on the diggings so scarce, that Govern-
ment objected. Then came the broken plate, which
used up all the camp crockery. An ingenious
police-officer threatened to cut off the head China-
man’s pigtail unless he devised some cheap form
of oath. After cogitation, he concluded that
“blow ’em out matchee ” would do, and that form
has been adopted ever since. Anyhow, it doesn’t
much matter what a Chow swears upon. He
is just as big a liar as the white man.— Bush
Lawyer.
# # *
A Melbourne firm of drapers intimates
that it expects “gentlemen ” in its employ to wear
mutton-chop whiskers- the badge of the flunkey
and-the tallow’-faoed curate.
* « •
Party in Maoriland is a beautiful institu-
tion. Two coaches run from Masterton to Tenui.
If a passenger is found riding in one to either
town and wishes to return by the other, he is
politely told to “support his own party.” Conse-
quently, he has either to walk or wait a day or
two.
A commercial
traveller, who the
other day successfully
slit his throat in a
Maryboroug h-
Gympie (Q.) railway
train, lived long
enough to implore a
Gympie hospital-
nurse to write a loving
letter to his wife in
Sydney, and to say
that he really didn’t
know why he had
made sudden tracks.
“It was an impulse,
and I’m sorry ■ I
followed it.” That is
often one of the effects
of cutting on e’s
throat. The blood-
pressure on the brain
being relieved, the
whilom lunatic be-
comes suddenly sane
.and wonders at his
unaccountable act.
* # *
An old digger
died at Oroyden (Q.)
a couple of weeks ago
with .£l3 in notes and
gold in his pocket.
The Intestate Estate
Court ordered .£7 to
be spent on burying
the digger, and put
the other £6 in its
own pocket.
* # #
The “London
Letter” in Sydney
E. News, headed
“Queen Anne’s
Gate,” was referred to
the other day by a
News magnate as “a
fine example of the
best journalisticstyle,
and a model for press
writers.” And there-
by hangs a tale.
The invitees to Melb. Government House
balls include sixpence-in-the-pounders or there-
abouts.
• • #
Extract from Melbourne letter :—“I went
to the Austral Salon. One hundred and fifty
women and five men.”
# # *
An enormous amount of tobacco is being
privately and unexcisedly made up out of raw leaf
in Sydney by distressed people who can’t afford to
buy manufactured tobacco. Also, scores of people
are living in tents in the more distant suburbs to
save rent; and you could, last Friday morning,
count a dozen poor wretches sleeping with their
heads and bodies in empty barrels in one of the
parks. Happy indeed, is the pariah who can find
an unoccupied barrel on a wet night.
* # #
M’s.P. travel free on N.S.W. Govt. Tram-
ways —so do aborigines. Last week a pompous.
M.P. boarded a tram and three “givem poor
countrymen thikpen ” followed into the same
compartment. When the fare - collector came
round the legislator with a mighty air ejaculated,
“Membah!” sat up majestically and puffed a
cigar. “ All Members Parliament here —all free,”
explained one of the niggers in an affected tone,
as he put his bare feet on the opposite seat, and
sucked at an inch of clay.
# * *
In Sweden, Govt, gets at the successful
suicide by sending his or her body to the dis-
secting-room of the nearest University, and Den-
mark thinks of following this good example. In
this country the law only gets at the unsuccessful
suicide.
# # *
With a touch of pathos in his voice a
Maoriland curate remarks that “ out of 709
baptisms entered in my register not one was bap-
tised ‘Susan ’or ‘ Susanah.’ This is remarkable,
as Susan used to be a common name at Home.”
An Australian Woman’s Suffrage magnate
lately advertised in a daily paper that if a dog
which had strayed into her yard was not claimed
she would kill it. Which may be taken as alle-
gorically foreshadowing the reign of the Petticoat.
# # *
From the S.A, Advertiser ;
"TCTANTED, WIFE must be able to drive a pair of
” ponies, play piano, fond of boating, ska’ing,
tennis and dancing. Address “M.P.,” Gladstone
Hall, Lower Light.
• * *
The other day, at Newtown (Sydney)
police-court, one man sued another for £2 2s. for
the stud services of a certain cat. Defendant
pleaded that that was not the bargain. The
arrangement was that the proprietor of Thomas
was to choose the best kitten out of the litter—in
default of this choice being allowed him two
guineas were to be paid. As a matter of fact, the
union had been barren, though when previously
mated with other sires defendant’s cat had been
blessed with kittens. The magistrate entered a
non-suit to enable either plaintiff or defendant to
produce convincing veterinary evidence. This case
may yet get to the Privy Council.
• * *
The Hebrew ladies of Brisbane have
started a benevolent society to which they have
given the threadbare name of “Dorcas.” Why
Dorcas? —especially as it is wholly a New Testa-
ment word.
* • *
It was stated on oath, in a Sydney law-
court last week, that an' Irishman armed with
a judgment summons w r as a fiercer persecutor
than any Jew money-lender. By the way, three
of the most prosperous Sydney money-lending
firms, nominally Hebrewistic, are backed by Irish
purses.
* * *
The Sydney railway-porters’ most liberal
“ tipper ” is a Chinaman —Ur. On Lee.
* # #
Queensland aborigine (hugging a bottle
to an armpit) : “ Brunga Brunga all gone to
plurry no good. Boss been reduce ’im wages,”
Shantykeeper : “ How do you stand, Billy ?”
“Oh, this peller all right; all the same like it
MALAPROP.
DOROTHY (who can never get the right word in place, to her father , who is
shovelling for the good of his liver): “Oh, Daddy dear, the
Presbyterians are running down your face so fast.”
before. Boss an’ this peller make it up all right.
“ What wages ?” “ Well, baal mine get it wages
this time; baal mine been get it wages before.
You chee ? That’s all right.”
To Non-Subscribers and Readers remote
from Agents.
To ensure getting a copy of the literary treat of the
year, The Bulletin Xmas Number, mail to The Bulletin
Office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. Wales, Bd. in stamps.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be posted to any oversea
address, out of Australasia, for 9d. in stamps of any
country.
Tne Number will be of at least twice the usual Bulletin
size, and will contain original, specially-written contribu-
tions from over forty Australian writers and artists.
For 1/3 in stamps will be sent from The Bulletin Office,
to any Australasian address, a copy of those most suc-
cessful book—Price Warung’s “Tales of the Convict
System,” or Ernest Favenc’s “Last of Six: Tales of
the Austral Tropics.”
There is no greater foe to human happi-
ness than the disorders that spring from lack of
nerve vitality. The more, then, that we feel the
nervous organs of our bodies declining in strength
or diminishing in functional ability, the nearer
then we may be sure we are approaching to the
final extinction of our lives. The causes that
lead up to this fading away of a man’s
existence, this waning of the pulse of life,
are many and varied. Mr. Rainsford, 7
Moncur-st., Sydney, writes : “In order to get rid
of the remains of an attack of nervous debility
from overwork, I was induced, by reading your
advertisement, to try a bottle of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, and I found it acting so beneficially that
I continued to use something like half-a-dozen
bottles. I am so pleased with its good effects
upon my system generally, that I shall recommend
it to any of my friends who may be suffering as I
was.” N.B.—Marshall’s Tonic Nervine is a
scientific discovery. It is not a haphazard pre-
paration resulting from a few minutes’ thought,
like many substitutes for it, but the outcome of
many years’ careful research into the cause of
weakness and anßemia in their many and varied
forms. It is a positive cure for weakness arising
from any and every cause, and can be obtained
from all medicine dealers. Do not be put off with
a substitute.
Dibbs’ curse —“ Damn Chicago ! ” —has
come home to roost.
Dear Bulletin, —As one who has done a
lot of “outside” overlanding please hear me re
mirage. There are two kinds common in Aus-
tralia, the far-distant and extensive sheet of water
like a lake or lagoon, and the near, concentrated
mirage which is wonderfully deceptive. I have
gone off the track to examine an apparent water-
hole or clay-pan within 300 yards, which I knew
should not be there, but so perfect was the decep-
tion that I have wondered if it could be scienti-
fically accounted for, as the reflex of a real water-
hole, within a reasonable radius, angled in some
way by atmospheric refraction. As to the bul-
locks, the sense of smell is more potent than
vision. D. may be right according to his experi-
ence, but he is not a reliable authority, all the
same. From the Darling outwards, following
Sturt’s track to Lake Eyre or Burke’s to Inna-
mincka, in certain dry seasons I think anyone'
who “knew” the country would certainly be
deceived.—Yours, &c., H.M.
The Maxim gun is evidently going to be
the great civilising agent of the future. It fires
over 600 rounds per minute, and a man can sit
behind it and sweep the ground in front of him as
with a hose. It loads itself by the force of the
recoil; “the gun will go on firing as long as the
nation can pay for cartridges.” The solitary
operator can go away for a few minutes and have
a drink, and provided the cartridges are there the
gun will keep working, and the automatic mas-
sacre will go righ The operator, in fact,
is only wanted for the purpose of altering the
direction of the fire. One man with a Maxim is
about equal to a battalion of infantry. The gun
is exceedingly cheap; it is simple, durable, and
about as destructive as all the pestilences on
record. If a nation can only be persuaded to stand
in front of it, then the Maxim does the rest. —
See, the British Lion sniggers!
Note the waving of his tail,
Science, brought to bear on niggers,
Never yet was known to fail.
Hingland fights for Heaven’s glory ;
Far away her valiant sons
Breathe the moral of the story
From the mouths of Maxim guns.
When the dusky host in masses
Palls before the “ mowing” fires,
Shout “ hurrah 1” and clink your glasses
With the sabres of your sires.
Rum is good and mission preaching
Educates these foolish ones.
But the best of wisdom’s teaching
Comes from mouths of Maxim guns.
Lobengula, once so skittish
In his fancied heathen might,
Now will learn to love the British
As a sparrow' loves a kite.
Mindful of his army bleaching
’Neath the rays of burning suns,
Lo Ben will respect the teaching
Of those splendid Maxim guns.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool.— Since our last report we are pleased to say the
unfortunate dispute between the Associated Sellinir
Brokers and the Buyers has been settled. The terms of
settlement are very little different to the selling condi-
tions of last year, and practically the same as we have
been selling upon all this season, which makes it all the
more inexplicable why the dispute should have arisen.
Apart altogether from the delay growers have been sub-
jected to, wool is now being forced upon the market at
the rate of about 11,000 bales a day, which makes it nearly
impossible for buyers to properly go through the cata-
logues, and in view of this we have decided to post-
pone our sale until next Thursday, 16th instant, when
we intend offering a first-class catalogue of greasy
and scoured wool including the following well-
known brands;—WCG from Gundagai ; 4/JG, and
JJMcN, from Wagga ; GB /Eschol, from Dubbo ;
HB/Fernglen, from Gundagai ; RW&Co./Restdown,
from Nymagee; JG, from Coolac; also, AMD and
AH Craiglea, from New England ; GWB, trom Crookwell;
WBW, from Junee ; JG/Middle Station, from Yass ; D,
from Wagga ; WB/M/Muttama, from Muttama ; and PR,
from Tumut.
The following are current prices :—Good greasy fleece,
7d to B,ld ; medium, fijd to 6£d ; pieces, good, 6d to 7d ;
medium, 4d to fijd ; bellies, good, 4d to fid ; medium, 2Ad
to 3|d ; locks, to Sid. Scoured fleece, from 15d to 17d for
superior, 13d to for good, and lOd to 12Jd for
medium; pieces, 12|d to 13id for good, and 9d to 11 Jd for
medium ; bellies, lid to i2Jd for good, 8d to lOd for
medium ; locks, fijd to 9d.
Hides.—Heavies in good demand, but light and medium
were a little easier at the sales to-day: best, heavies to
3Jd ; heavies 2d to 2Jd ; and light and medium from lid
to IJd per lb.
Sheepskins.— Prices quite equal to those ruling last
week, best full-wooled selling to 4|d; superior, fid;
medium, 3Jd to 4Jd ; pelts to 3Jd ; butcher’s greenskins
to 52d for tops, 30d to 40d for medium, and 16d for pelts.
Tallow. —The market to-day ruled about the same as
last week. Best mutton, £23 to £23 ss; best mixed,
£22 10s to £23 ; trade lots from £l9 10s. We offered 80
casks including—Fooks & Co., I. Tester, YBD, M. Gearin
BS, TH, JH and DJW brands.
Marsupial Skins.— The supply very small but competi-
tion good, large grey kangaroo selling to 52d ; medium,
20d to S6d; small, 2d to 18d ; red - large, to 24d ; small!
and medium, 2d to 16d. Wallaroo, 2d to 18d. Wallaby-
swamp, Jd to 13d ; scrub, Jd to 14d ; rock, Jd to 3d each.
Rabbit, 3d to 7jd per lb. Opossum skins—best greys, 7s
to 10s ; medium, 4s to 6s 6d ; small and ruraped, from 6d
per dozen ; black, from 9s to 16s per dozen.
Sydney, 10th November, 1893.


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS 1 IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Tlie Romany Rye.
Interpreted by the moat powerful and numerous cast ever
presented to a Sydney audience.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Absolutely NO Free List.
LAST NIGHTSI LAST NIGHTSI
Grand Italian Dramatic Opera, by Leoncavallo,
“I P AGLIACC I.”
At 10 o’clock, “Turquoisette, or A Study in Blue.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
IJIHEATRE ROYAL*
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
IMMENSE SUCCESS I IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
of Maggie Moore in
“ The Golden Giant.”
Box Plan Open Daily at the Theatre.
POPULAR PRICES— 3s. 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Business Manager, Mr. J. E. Moore.
rp H E CRYSTAL MAZE.
A REVELATION ! A REVELATION I
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of this NOVEL and DELIGHT'
FUL EXHIBITION,
The most extraordinary and unique spectacle ever
witnessed in Sydney.
Location— THE SYKAND (Pitt Street Entrance).
ADMISSION— One Shilling ; Children, 6d.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
W. MACMAHON, Director.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6 a.m.
till 10 p.m. For LADIES Daily from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Public Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesday Evening.
“O X 7 T B A C K;”
A Realistic Tale of the Old Station Days.
By Kenneth Mackat, author of “Stirrup Jingles," &c.
Cloth, 3s. Cd.
Remington & Co., Ltd., Publishers, Sydney and London.
Business Announcements.
“A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold I"
TAYLOR BROS.,
PIPE MAKERS & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET.
SY-nDZEsnE-Y*.
1&~ The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking Pipes.
Needle Wood (Hakea Leueopterra)
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stem), 4 6
Myall M ood Pipe ditto 4 6
Yarrau M ood Pipe ditto 4 6
Briar Boot Pipe ditto 4/6
(Above Pipes with Silver Mount and Amber Stem, *6)
Briar Boot Pipes, L. &Co. in circle, 4/-, 5/-. 6/, 7 -
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
The Briar Root is sweeter than any other known.
Pipes Silrer-mounted, Re-Ambered aad Repaired.
%W~ When ordering, please state shapes. Shapes :
Square Block, Horn of Plenty Bound Bent and Round
Bent Push, and Flat.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be sent (post free) to any address.
We are Purchasers of Needle-Wood 8001.
rjtw
Musical Instruments!
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of 11 The Bulletin.”
Given Away ! ! ( only 30,000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and yon will receive
in return a 4s. Song. Haiti or Piano Piece,
IKEKI
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Remember this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
duns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
ea per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each—Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants 4 Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
OS’ Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
J^OWS
EMBROCATION
E
«V*v
</
swr
\SOLO
f
Business Announcements.
ƒ
‘‘Clothed with Air.”
Cellular Cloth
•*|i|fe66
WITH
Linen Fronts & Cuffs.
6/6 & 7/6
Just Opened.
Cellular Cloth Shirts.
French Print Fronts and
Cuffs; 3-stud ; various
patterns—6 0.
When sending Orders by
’ost, mention s ; ze of neck,
nd include amount to pre-
■ny carriage.
Sole Agents:
RAHAM & MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SYDNEVT.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is tlie
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for £l9
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £5O.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 66.] [Established 1860.
AMBERG’S CABINET LETTER FILES.
rpHE most perfect and complete system for FILING
-L Correspondence. No numbering, folding, endorsing,
indexing, or pasting. All papers free from dust and
mutilation. list'd extensively by Banks, Ins. Co.,
Shi/ipers. No office complete without at least a small
Cabinet. D. B. THOMAS, Agent, Vic. Arcade, Sydney.
6 6 ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
Publications.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
Ketnil liooltaellers and Stationers,
863 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Smith (Goldwin), United States, 1492 1871 8/6 posted 10/-
NEW SERIAL VOLUMES.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
NOW REAOY, POST FREE IS. 6d.
f
rr>HE BALLET
J- GIRL: Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her hahits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
Ind a, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
be had only of Madame Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
Government Notices. _
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 13,1893.
r|LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29.
Bridge, Gibben Gunyah Creek, Main Southern
Road
Construction of Timber Punt, Tabulam Ferry,
Clarence River (time extended)
Putting down Three Artesian Bores—l between
Byrock and Brewarrina, 1 between Narrabri
and Moree, 1 near Cobar
Supply of Tube Casing for three Artesian Bores
Erection of Dining-room, &c., Hospital for the
Insane, Gladesville. Fresh tenders
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Bridge, Wollondilly River at Lacy’s Crossing
Bridge, Wybong Creek, road Merriwa to Mus well-
brook
Bridge, Glennie’s Creek at Camberwell
Bridge, Murray River at Hawksview
Bridge, Yarramuhtnun Creek, road Nowra to
Y al wal
Bridge, Wilson River at Ballingarra
Construction of Main, Eastern Branch Sewer,
Western Suburbs Drainage. Time extended
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1894.
Bridge, Cow Creek, road Moulamein to Koond
rook
Bridge, Wakool River, road Moulamein to Koond
rook
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
CLOSING DATE (First Ballot).
TIE COLUMBIAN LAID DICTRIBUTIOH.
cr NOVEMBER 27, 1893. -w
The Ballot: November 30, 1893.
iiTtiblan T~ ■n.n rl JJistrilaxition.
1893.
PLEASE ALLOT me (£1) Shares.
Name
£ : t
Address
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co-
For PROSPECTUSES, SHARES, and all particulars, apply to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY,
C/o NEWTON & CO.,
Brisbane, Q.
PROSPECTUSES and all particulars can also be obtained from
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY,
O/o J. H. ASTROP, ‘ i*, ’
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street,
Sydney, 3W.S.W.


ATJSTRAHAKT MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Head. Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; J. T. WALKER. Esq.;
and ROBTERT J. KINO, Esq.
All Policies effected from now till the end of the Year will share In the Division of Profits as at 31st December, 1893. Amount of CASH BONUS Distributed amongst Policy-
holders for the One Year, 1892, exceeded HALF-A-MILLION STERLING.
~ Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of two years. Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in applications early, either direct or through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of
tne Fronts for this year. °
General Manager and Actuary—RlCHAßD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
Qxi.eexxala.xxca. Cup — December 11. 50,000 at 5.
Summer Cup— December 26, 10,000 at 10.
Carrington Stakes, 25,000 at 10.
“ TATTEKBAM,”
Care of George Adams,
. “The Telegraph" Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane, Queensland
JSJLOO
GIVEN AWAY
in Presents.
FOR GUESSES ON THIS REBUS.
Which represents, when properly arranged, the
name of a prominent Australian City. To the First Five Persons sending us correct answer on or
before December 20th, 1893, we will give to each, A Genuine Gold Hunting* Case Lever
Watcli. Value £5. To each of the next Six we will give a Sterling* Silver Hunting* Caste
lever Watcli, V nine ti 1 Os, To each of the next Ten wo will give a Genuine Nickel
Silver Keyless Watcli, Value £l. To each of the last Five sending correct answer we will
give A Genuine Gold Hunting- Caste Lever Watcli, Value £9. To each of the
next Six we will give A Sterling Silver Hunting Case Lever Watcli, Value £'2 lOs,
To each of the next Ten we will give A Genuine Nickel Silver Keyless Watch, Value £ l
This Reims admits of only one answer and does not convey a double meaning. It is no catchpenny
Advt.,hut a Genuine distribution of Christmas Presents to be faithfully conducted as above stated.
Competition Closes at 5 p.m., December 20th, next. With your answer we require you to
send FIFThEN PENNY STAMPS for a box of “ Star Antibilloiis nils,’,' the Best Liver,
Kiduea and Bowel Regulator ever used, made from choicest medicinal Herbs, Sugar-coated, they act
gently, yet promptly, without griping, 24 doses in box. List of Names and Addresses of Prize winners
will be posted to each person answering this Advt., write at once.— Address — National Drug
Company. Russell Street, Melbourne.
f
ƒ
f
m.
ƒ
I
X
p
/?
9
VALUE
\
$
so
Ny
\*
£ 1,300 A YEAR .
BBS BUILDING SOCIETY,
RENTAL VALUE
9 S'
FOR SHARES AND ALL
PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SECRETARY ALBERTS?
OR CO RR IE & CO. QUEEN ST
BRISBANE. OR:-
C66r6. fierce §* go,,
126 PITT STREET,
syidin-ie-x-.
f
ƒ
f
as*
XTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
- L - L and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“ Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE!
libTOimimnirs 1
nnnf-irrm
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. .. GEO. W. ELLIS.
M.*J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
t 3 Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events: —
Queensland Cup.
SUMMER CUP.
CARRINGTON STAKES.
5. EACH.
ƒ
3. EACH
ON THE
DECEMBER HANDICAP.
Canterbury, December 2nd.
At 5 Each 4000 At 6 Each
S XT TSOI M E XX C XT P*,
Randwick, December 26th,
At 5 Each, 10,000 At 5 Each
|3?~ Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
Telegraphic Code —“ Westbrook, Sydney.”
r
■I
'M
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
colonies. Starting Price on all events. Doubles now open
on Summer and Tattersall’s Cups, Carrington Stakes and
Tattersall’s Cup. Double and Straight-out oa all the
principal events during the year. Telegrams, &c., must
be prepaid, and no commission considered executed
unless a reply is received.
CHEAP MUSIC.
New Song, “ After the Ball,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes
Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
'MADAME ARAMANDA,-
THE CELEBRATED CLAIRVOYANT,
From L‘ Exposition Internationale, Paris, may he
Consulted at
149 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
Daily, 2 to 5, and Mond., Thurs., and Sat., 7 to 9 p.ra.
Madame secured highest awards at Kensington Hall
(London). Challenge Competition for recovery of lost
property, documents, missing friends, &o. The only
(rained exponent of purely
Scientific Palmistry
in Australia; pupil of M. Desbarrolles; holding high
credentials from Parisian police for identification of
criminals. Phrenological Charts Prepared. Inspection
of credentials Invited.
Fees: 35., 55., 10s. 6d., and a Guinea.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Only one Melb. tipster gave Tarcoola even as an
outside cockboat for a possible place.
* « •
Tarcoola, now in his seventh year, ran his first
race as a four-year-old in the Caulfield Cup of 1890. He
carried Bst. 21bs., and The Bulpetin “tipped” him as the
winner, saying that he was a much better horse than the
public might imagine from his performances up to that
time. But Tarcoola finished about sixth only for the
Caulfield Cup of 1890, and from then right on to last
Tuesday week he won three times out of forty-two
attempts. At two and three years of age he had won
twice in 14 tries, so Tarcoola had a record in all of five
wins to fifty-one defeats when he started for this Mel-
bourne Cup. He had only once before been tried in a
two-mile race (when Carbine gave him 351hs. and lost him),
and his weight now was little less than those he had been
carrying unsuccessfully in petty handicaps for the last
three years. He was the one horse in the Cup that
backers couldn’t fancy. He had run nowhere in four
successive Hopetoun Cups on four successive Boxing
Days at Caulfield, and had performed like a flash deceiver
in three Caulfield Cups, including the last one—l 7 days
previous to his “ great victory.”
* * *
All the same, Tarcoola’s best races hitherto had
been run over 1£ miles and 13 furlongs. In 1892, he won
the Birthday Handicap at Fleraington (1J miles), carrying
Bst. 81b., or 21b. less than Portsea, the second horse. Con-
sidering that Portsea, on May 25, would be nearly four
years old, the performance of Tarcoola was highly re-
spectable. In the Bagot Handicap (1 mile 5 furlongs),
run January 1, 1891, Tarcoola, carrying Bst. 41b., finished
second to Greygown, weighted at 131 b. less. Three months
later Greygown (Bst. 511).) was only beaten by the skin of
his nose for the Sydney Cup. Looking back at those two
particular races there would have been some excuse for
fancying Tarcoola’s chance last week hut for his innumer-
able failures. For example, he carried Bst. 41b. in the
Bagot Handicap of 1892, and Bst. 21b. in the same race
this year, finishing “ nowhere ” each time. Where, then,
was the evidence that the horse had developed staying
power with increasing age, as is now said to be the
case? Tarcoola could always “stay” as well as
most of them, no doubt, and he won the Mel-
bourne Cup because he carried a reasonable weight,
had plenty of luck, and a very moderate lot of old horses
opposing him—Camoola, the best of them, being off
colour. Run the same race ten times over (assuming all
the animals to be in exactly the same condition as they
were on Nov. 7th) and how many times would Tarcoola
win it again ? Not once, perhaps. Carnage would beat
him four tim-s out of five, and two or three of the others
might occasionally beat that clinking good youngster.
The Melbourne Cup is the most valuable handicap on
eirth, and the most flukily ridden of races, considering
its length. A Carbine, Malua, Martini-Henry or Carnage
issobridiant that he can’t lie kept from the front rank,
but with the good second-class horses it is mainly a ques-
tion of “getting through,” and if they can get through
the mob in which they are mixed up, it is then a question
of “timing th- run,” and the timely making of this last
effort is mostly a matter of luck rather than judgment on
the part of the undisciplined boy-jockey.
# # *
The silence that fell upon Flemington when
Tarcoola won was solemn and sudden. Backers had done
badly enough on the first three races, hut the blue jacket
with gold spots fairly took their breath away. Glenloth
was nothing of a surprise compared with this, inasmuch
as they had prepared themselves for adversity on the
great Mud-Cup Day, and couldn’t deny that Glenloth was
a possible outsider. Tarcoola paralysed them. They
s*ood about in funereal groups, staring at nothing. The
fiend who ordinarily inquires—“ What did I tell you?”
was absolutely dumb on this occasion. Deathlike gloom
reigned everywhere, for the bookmakers, after one feeble
pretence at a demonstration, subsided into a moody
reverie over their profits. The “turn-up” was indeed
even more of a turn-up than Ikey Mo approved of, and
Ikey might have been heard grumbling to his brother
lamb-skinners—“ It’s all very veil, but the poor vont
stand this sort of thing for ever.”
# » #
Lord Hopetoun was the mystery of Melbourne
Cup betting. There was no attempt made by bookmakers
to lure the public on to fancy this stifl-’un, for as soon as
anybody backed him they offered longer odds. The night
before the race 1000 to 1 was offered against Lord Hope-
toun with quite unnecessary vehemence. For business
purposes 100 to 1 would have sufficed, yet certain
“hooks” took a savage delight in knocking the outsider
right out and advertising the fact that he wouldn’t start.
This game was played for two or three weeks before the
horse accepted for the Cup, yet all the while it had been
industriously circulated by friends of the owner, stable
lads, &c., that Lord H. was doing well. As a natural
result the animal enjoys a malodorous notoriety, which
will “ spoil the market ” for him even if he be ever a goer
for a big event.
* » •
Thursday of the Y.R.O. meeting heaped further
confusion upon backers already [prostrated by the Cup,
and Saturday slew them outright. The game of racing,
as it is now played, cannot much longer retain its grip
on the main body of the public, who, not being inveterate
gamblers, expect a reasonable show to win a trifle
occasionally. They must have a few good horses and
successful jockeys that they can pin their faith to and
base their opinions upon. As things go nowadays they
lose too much. Too many bookmakers live riotously upon
the dishonesty of owners, the incapacity of jockeys, the
luck of bad starts, and the general much-of-a-rauchness
of horses that do really have a good “go” for handicap
races. It rests with stewards to see that, in the first
place, swindling shall be cheeked as far as is possible.
But the best of stewardship avails nothing against poor
riding of horses that ought to have a chance, and the
prevailing habit of racing favourite animals when they
are off-colour.
• • «
Camoola lost a lob of public money at Fleming-
ton, starting four times without once getting near the
winner. It was stated a foitnight back that this
first-class horse was not himself, judging from appear-
ances, but the average punter naturally hung on to his
fancy for Camoola and dropped his coin accordingly.
For the Oaks they laid odds on Bessie Macarthy
because the filly was reckoned good enough to beat a very
moderate field in a fairly-run mile and a half race. The
rider of Bessie allowed the pace to be ridiculously slow for
two-thirds of the distance. The Oaks was reduced to a
five-furlong flutter, and little Dauphine had pace enough
to beat the favourite home.
* * *
Loyalty started a hot favourite for the two-mile
Canterbury Plate, on the assumption that the Maori-
lander would be set to do all that he had proved him-
self able to do in the Melbourne Cup. The time in this
instance was about 12 seconds slower, and Patron, having
been judiciously “shot out” fora long lead, managed to
hold a lead to the finish. The public, as it turned out,
were betting upon a 1\ mile race, with several lengths
start for Patron thrown in.
* * *
Portsea put up two great performances at the
meeting, winning the Veteran Stakes brilliantly under
9st. 61b., and carrying 9st. 121 b. within a half-head of the
V.R.C. Handicap victor. Portsea, who ran indifferently
in the Melb. Cup, here met Tarcoola on only 91b. better
terms, but Tarcoola finished last for the V.R.C. Handicap.
How are the public to get near the discovery of winners
in the midst of “form” like this?
# * »
The Steeplechase on Saturday was won by old
Schoolboy, the only competitor among ten that didn’t
either fall down or get rid of his rider. In this case
backers who were not too miserable to raise a smile, got a
little fun for their money. After Dolphin had come to
grief at the last fence a humorous “ Haitite ” threw off his
coat, climbed upon the grey horse’s back (or was hoisted
up by his pals) and rode him slowly dowm the
straight. He didn’t ride fast for fear of falling off
again and the shrieking crowd couldn’t make him under-
stand that Altona, re-mounted by its proper jockey, was
hurrying after him. In the end, Altona got second
money, whilst the coatless stranger, hugging Dolphin
round the neck, managed to pass the post somehow.
Subsequently he did fall off, but re-mounted and weighed
in for third money. This was comic, but what is the use
of one good joke at the end of a shockingly bad week?
# # •
In the kingdom of the blind the one-eyed indi-
vidual is monarch. Tub Bulletin was the only journal
in Australia that didn’t fancy eitherof the Cup favourites,
Loyalty, Camoola, Tim. Swiveller, or Sainfoin, a week be-
fore the race. Camoola and Swiveller, between them, ran
seven times without getting placed.
* * #
The raid on Miller’s Sweep is said to have been
ordered by the biggest Melbourne bookmakers.
* . * *
Fifty men arrested in a Collingwood ** tote ”
shop on Monday night last week had to'await the result
of the Cup in gaol.
• * »
Tattersall’s Melb. Cup consultations. No. 1,
100,000 subscribers, closed with 50,000: L. Fitzgerald,
Claverton-street, Charleville, Queensland, £13,500 ; J. J.
Mason, Waratah, Newcastle, N.S.W., £4500; Wiley,
Smith and Green, E.T.0., Wellington, M.L., £2250. No.
2 of 50,000 subscribers: Lavinia Lang, Waverley, Sydney,
£9000; T. A. Simpson, Queen-street, Melb., £2700;
Madame Berndhardt, Sydney, £lBOO.
# * •
The man who backs horses on the strength of
his horse-racing experience, and judgment founded
thereon, is a fool. But the amateur cynic who, knowing
nothing at all, laughs at the idea of anybody knowing
more than himself, is the biggest of all racecourse fools.
Experience and brains count for a little even amidst the
mist of luck and roguery that enshrouds the turf.
• # »
Ramage, who won the Melbourne Cup on
Carbine, has dropped rather out of notice. He had
another great chance on Portsea, last year, but the sturdy
little horse fell and the jockey never got up again, pro-
fessionally speaking. Ramage declared that nothing less
than a tumble could have kept Portsea from winning the
race.
# * •
The “James White” breed of horses scored
heavily at Flemington on Cup Day. Four winners were
begotten by Chester, Abercorn (2), and Martini-Henry,
from Tempe, Ravenna, Copra, and Uralla.
# # •
Lord Grenville and Oxide were the horses most
damaged in the Cup race. The South Australian horse
got the worst of a bump and came quite to grief, whilst
Oxide had his hind legs galloped on to an extent that
suggested criminally reckless riding on the part of some
jockey, or jockeys, unknown.
# * •
At auction the day before Melb. Cup, Tim
Swiveller was passed in at £l5OO. What price now 7
• « •
One book p;tys .£7OOO to a Tarcoolist —a mourn-
ful thing in such a lamb-skinning year.
* * •
Grimwood, calling over the lists, at Bowes*
Tattersall’s, used to say when he reached Tarcoola, with
grim humour, “ The absolute winner, gentlemen.”
« « •
Lord George Giffen isn’t going to play in inter-
provinoial cricket matches in Melbourne or Sydney any
more. Close the shutters, cricket’s dead 1
* • *
An Adelaide senior team has lost its lightning
bowler, prominent in last year’s interprovincial contests—
and all through a matter of £3 a week.
* # *
Geo. Giffen, in a recent letter, says family ties
only prevent him from settling in England, where he
could make £5OO a year out of cricket alone. Better than
£l5O a year in Adelaide Post Office. Lyons refused one
very big offer, by the way.
# # *
Geo. Giffen’s friends claim that George can
effectively reply to Turner’s charges. He and Turner, it
must be remembered, are old enemies, as well as rival
bowlers. The writer has seen several strong statements by
Giffen in letters to Adelaide, of which more anon. There
are several in the Australian team who don’t regard
Turner as an angel.
• » •
Tim O’Connor, the giant athlete now in Aus-
tralia with the Maoriland team, weight-putter, hammer-
thrower, &c., is a'so captain of the VVaitainaki Rowing
Club, Auckland. The oarsman of that country, as a rule,
eschews the light wager skiff and toys with 301 b. paddles
in a flve-ton whaleboat; hence, the 13st. man is the only
one worth a place in any right-thinking crew.
* * »
An Adelaide scribe sent over from the Vic.
capital in “ a special article,” a tabular list of the winners
of Sydney (instead of those of Melbourne) Derby. Worse
still, it was solemnly printed for the information of local
sportsmen.
» » »
An ominous galvanized-iron fence now extends
along the river frontage of Flemington racecourse.


J 47
PILL
ARCADE
PILL PALACE
81000*
SBWFS
Herr Rassmussen’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFA LINE
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigcrator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
say that his Remedies havecured more than all others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. {3g r “ A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WARNlNG.—lmitators will be Prosecuted,
y IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
IMISuSS!
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALF ALINE
VITALITY PILLS.
AWARD ED
TWO GOLD
** m WIEDALS
jf
SMkf
%
*llN£j&?cr
iofH
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. fid. Boxes, 6s. and 12s.
Registered and Purely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies putrtogether. ’’—North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjovs the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfalinc Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfalinc Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3/- and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifler.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 16.
Alfaline Ointment,
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1./-
and 2/-; posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
blooiTdiseases, skin affections,
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS.
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders..
For the Whites. Posted, 3,'- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
« The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT: 547 George Street, Sydney-
ALSO .A.T HIS BEAHGHES :
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
91 Lambton Quay, Wei ton,
MSTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of alt foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—VoI. VIL
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. 0.
Leube
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—VoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experiencemay
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”-Prof.
Birch- Hirschfkld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO'S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly uotict able when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemi.ts at Is. per Bottle.
-THE- '
Wentworth Hotel
■Xftf
is&
I
- .s-
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Tariff: 8s- 6d. per Day.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Pkopeiktress.
Telephone No. 1583.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYOOSE
OR
milk: food.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
£59,401 worth of Freehold Property!
Australian Building Society.
YARRABANDINI & TANBAN
Monster Freehold Property Distribution,
Comprising 10,652 acres of the well-known fauns and
agricultural lands of Sydney Verge, Es of the Macleay
River, and several valuable TOWN LOTS in Kemprey and
the suburbs of Sydney, and a valuable GRAZING FARM
at Kingston and Loganlea Railway Stations, clnse to
Brisbane, all of which have been purchased by the Society
for its members.
The Macleay Properties have been valued by Mr. James
Johnston, J.P., Auctioneer and Valuator, of Ki mpsey,
and the Queensland Property by Messrs. Arthur Martin
and Co., Ltd.
The above Properties will be distributed amongst the
members of the
AUSTRALIAN BU LDING SOCIETY
(Incorporated accoic ing to Act of Parliament.)
proposed (Issue of 59,401 Shares
At £1 Each.
Committee of Manat,emeut.
C. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNKAR, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in N.S. Wales,
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P. for the Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBERT HAIES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COM PAN V OF
SYDNEY, Limited.
Solicitors.
Messrs. THYNNE and MACARTNEY, BRISBANE.
118 PRIZES, asunder:
FIRST PRIZE, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643
f
8 Prizt s from A 2560 (o *1650
13 „ „ £BB5 to 1 50
23 Prizes of £46 each
49 ~ A 26 10s each
19 ~ £2O each
Total Value of Prizes, £59,401.
Each Shareholder, for every Share held by him, will
have Eleven Separate Chances, or a possibility of
winning prizes to the value of £3!*,430 lOs.
Payment of the sum of £1 will secure One Share in the
Society, upon which there will be no further liability.
The Drawing will be by Ballot, according to Rules of
Society, and will be announced as early as possible.
Transfers will be executed in favour of successful Share-
holders immediately after the Ballot, free of all mortgages,
rates, taxes and encumbrances.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must be made to
the Secretary, BARRON L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of 0. SMITH, No. 24
Imperial Arcade, Sydney ; or “ Secretary,” care of J.
RICHARDSON, \V. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any
further particulars may be obtained.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes; add exchange if cheque sent.
Register letters.
The Committee invite the attention of intending Share-
holders to the value of the Properties for distribution, and
also to the Auctioneers’ description, which may be seen
at the office. Should the Lists not be filled, the Com-
mittee reserve the right to withdraw one or more lots,
according to the amount subscribed.
Grand natatorium hotel, 39c. to 402
Pitt-street, Ha\market, Sydney. These extensive
Premises offer every home comfort to visitors. Attached
to the hotel are tlic grandest sea-water swimming baths
in the world ; 1400 tons of warm flowing sea-water; a per-
fect luxury, free of charge, to our visitors. N.8.-The
Pitt-street Railway ’buses pass the door evi ry few minu'es
A Casino (N.S.W.) official got a letter, the
other day, addressed to “ The Agent for Intestine
Estates.”
Sydney Telegraph’s authority on foreign
politics announces that “The Hollands Parlia-
ment” is inquiring into the Costa Rica Packet
dispute. Sounds like the Gin Parliament.
Colemane fe Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
An employer negotiating through Sydney
Labour Bureau offered 13s. per thousand for
cutting timber; men refused, as regular price is
<£2. Employers in chorus : “ Behold the loafers !
They beg for work and pray they may not get it!”
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Business man: “Yes, it was with a sigh
that I received an appeal from the Akgus office,
with an Age advt. pasted on a slip. Once I went
into the Argus front office, and was talking about
an advt., when the potentate behind the counter
exclaimed “We don’t walk across the road after
an advertisement.”
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Old ceremonial dies hard in the beloved
mother-land. The other day a heraldic procession
turned out in all its glory in the ancient city of
Edinburgh, with heralds, pursuivants, trumpeters,
and armour-bearers, a military escort in front and
a brass band behind ; and the sheen of its clothes
was like a vision of Tyrian purple covered with
golden stars. Then it marched in state to the
Grassmarket or the Cowgate or some equally
hoary and ill-drained locality, and, having
trumpeted much, solemnly announced that, in
future, sovs. and half-sovs. issued before the
accession of Queen Victoria would not be legal
tender in Fiji. After which it blew another horrid
blast on the trumpet and went home.
Colemane & Sons’Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Dear Bulletin, —The original site for the
township of Gundagai (N.S.W.), four miles from
the present township, is known as the “per-
manent common,” and is a pasture paradise. It
is chiefly devoted to the increase and fattening of
the surplus stock of well-paid Govt, officials, well-
to-do storekeepers, and the local upper-crust man
generally. The river-flats facing the town —
known as the “ temporary common ’’—are used by
the poorer commoners and certain grass-pirates.
With the hills and rich valleys running back,
these make a large area. The “permanent
common” is one of the most suitable areas in
N.S.W. for a “ village settlement ” experiment.
It is level land, above the highest flood-mark,
and within a few hundreds of yards from
the Gundagai-Cootamundra branch-line of rail-
way. The flat, bounded on two sides by the
river Murrumbidgee, is one of the richest
suitable for corn or tobacco cultivation in Aus-
tralia. In the opinion of good judges, one crop in
three years would pay. Would it not be wise for
Govt, to offer such lands for settlement, with
terms of liberal assistance, and thus prevent more
of our people from emigrating to South America
or elsewhere? The money spent in fitting out the
“Royal 'Par” alone, if subsidised by Govt., would
have sufficed to lay the foundation of a second
Chicago. The extravagant reservation of rich
lands for “commonage” is wasteful folly.
Gundagai has been, is, and will remain a one-horse
village until the lands I speak of are cultivated.
One thou-aud persons could live in plenty and
comfort where now browse one hundred mongrel
stock. Hundreds of other small bush towns are
similarly cursed. —Yours, See., An Atom.
“Poverty is Godlike.”- Parkes, in Mel-
bourne.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Compe-
tition No. 8 closes on Wednesday, Nov. 29. For
particulars see advt. inside back cover.


WOOL
MBURNBY, WALLIS and CO.
N, M‘BVB.NET \
E. S, WA ELIS J
A. HENSON Jj
15 to
WOOL
29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. (Limited)
& PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Liberal Cash. Advances if required..
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES. HAIR, and any other Produce.
Each Department zxiaziaged. by a member of tbe
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores: Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices; Macquarie
THE BEST
BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIG
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name — Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
SARSAPARILLA
AYER
S
Established 1876^
ASTHMA
CURE
! WRITE EOR
D?
HAIR’S
' TREATISE,
ON
ASTHMA J
,c
ƒ
'Melbourne
LiTTor
Rocke.TompsiLtAft.
, "Sydney; Elliottßem
Brisbane: Eliottßrouff
"Adelaide : !■ ti.Fauldinft rt?
t "Wellington. KZ. Sharlarufkr.
Auckland: Sharland *C° '
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
I sick headache, &c, A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
, „ . enough for the strongest, do not after
Wards constipate but by their general action please all wh
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
■'an. T 1 e smallest and easiest to take. Forty in a phial.
f
in Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
ƒ
f
NOURISHING.
; DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
Fob INVALIDS.
For travellers.
Malted milk is made from the
richest a nd purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick 1)
and readily prepared foi instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
WA fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.
— Lanc.it. April 4, iBqi.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In
111 valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres
ribeJ by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Veiq
pal liable, and free from adulterant*
British Medical Journal, April 18. ifgi.
r altel Milk will keep infleflai'ely In a r y climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
117; Icsalc Agents :
Eliiott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK GO., 39, SNOW HIU, LONDON, E C.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
AV
r-tigrht Tina.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C 9
Li
&
= 3
s-
ELECTEIO LAUNCH “GLOW-WORM," 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e..
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND.
I THE COSMOS APOTHECARIES CO.
Physicians, Chemists & Dentists,
674 GEORGE STREET (BRICKFIELD HILL). SYDNEY.
JjRMjIABLB MEDICAL ADVICE, 2s. 6d. |
By Dr. BALDWIN, Licentiate of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, Edin. Registered by the
Medical Board of New South Wales.
CONSULTATION DAILY from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m. Personally or by Letter.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH—Perfect in Fit.
Unexcelled in Strength, and of beautiful life-like appearance, by Dr. BETTS, from the Philadelphia College of
Dental Surgery.
UPPER or LOWER SETS, from £2 2s. ... FULL SETS, from £4 4s.
No Extra Charge made for Medical Attendance in Extraction under Gas or Chloroform.
THE CHEAPEST HOUSE 1 1ST N.s. WALES |
For PURE DRUGS, CHEMICALS and PATENT MEDICINES.
Barry’s Tricopherous, Is 2d ; Beechara’s Pills, lid ; Clements’ Tonic, 3s 9d ; Cuticura Soap, 9d ; Resolvent, 3s 9d ;
St. Jacob’s Oil, 2s; Scott’s Emulsion, 3s; Seigel’s Syrup, 2s Id ; Mrs. Allen’s Hair Restorer, 4s 6d ; Warner’s Sab-
Cure, 3s 9d, etc., etc.
| Fuss' Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure, 2s 6d, I
An INFALLIBLE CURE for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys, Costiveness, Indigestion, Bilious Headache, etc.
LADIES WILL FIND IT AN INVALUABLE PREPARATION. (See Pamphlet.)
for our Price-List a,n«3. Save Money.
A NEW DEPARTURE !
A. Rare Opportunity to Country Residents.
J E. COLLINS & CO. (late SummerfielcTs)
Are now forwarding, CARRIAGE PAID, to anv Seaport or Railway Station in the Colony
MEN’S, YOUTHS’ and BOYS’ COMPLETE OUTFITS at HALF USUAL PRICES
Read Carefully the following Lists, and send us a TRIAL ORDER.
Our Special 30s. Gent.’s Outfit
Comprising SEVENTEEN ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed Sac Suit, 1 White Shirt, 1 Coloured Shirt,
1 Straw or Soft Felt Hat, 3 prs Sox, 3 Collars, 2 Scarves, 2 Undershirts, 1 pr Braces, 2 H’k’chfs.
Boys’ and Youths’ 225. 6d. (xrousfrs) Outfit —
Comprising TEN ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Sac Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, 1 pr Braces.
2 Collars, 3 prs Sox, 1 Straw or Felt Hat.
Boys’ 12s. 6d. Outfit ( Boys from 4to 12*years )
Comprising NINE ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, 2 Collars, 2 prs
Stockings, Ipr Braces, 1 Straw or Felt Hat. Send age of Boy, and say whether stout or otherwise.
TAILORING DEFARXMBKrT.
We are MAKING GENT.’S TWEED or SERGE SAG SUITS TO ORDER from 50s.
TROUSERS TO ORDER, 12s. 6d.
PATTERNS and MEASUREMENT FORMS Free on Application. This is an exceptional
opportunity of purchasing your Drapery and Clothing at less than Sydney Prices, carriage free
J. F. COLLINS & CO..
(Late SUMMERFIELD’S),
235, 237, 239 PITT STREET (near Market Street), SYDNEY.
THE
‘nF’luixx’
the
THE
‘Plum*
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
To C. L, Mobotham,
CUE,
Mt. Murch’ son, West Australia.
Hope you have received letters, as we have sent
si-veral. All are well.
S. ROBOTHAM.
Ned Yesey.
ANY news of his RECENT or PRESENT
ADDRESS will be most gladly received
by his Friend, DICK WEATHERBY.
G. V. HELLICAR, Solicitor,
BRISBANE.
There were 20 reporters afc Glasson’s trial.
“A man has to fear the deviation in his
career through marriage.”—Hamebton.
The policeman’s white gloves (for Sunday
and state occasions) always affect one much.
They are so suggestive of purity.
A. G. Taylor will stand for Rylstone, made
up of part of his old constituency, Mudgee, and
part of the Upper Hunter. It is not unlikely that
he may have to face his old foe, Jack M'Elhone.
A Richmond (Melb.) woman has been
caught raising money for beer by begging for
means to bury her dead baby. She made the
error of “striking” the same man three weeks
running.
The present German Emperor, then a small
boy, attended the wedding of the Prince and
Princess of Wales, His uncles were in Highland
dress, and the future emperor slyly knelt down
and bit their bare calves with great earnestness.
New Melb, suburban spielers’ dodge.
Plausible person enters grocer’s shop and arranges
for the supply of 501 b. tea at 3 p. m. same day,
and pays a small deposit on same. Then he goes
across to another tradesman and buys extensively
of portable and negotiable articles. Asked for
payment he takes No. 2 back to No. I’s place of
business with “Mr. Sugarsand, will you kindly
let Mr. Jones, here, have five pounds out of that
you’re going to give me at three?” “Certainly,
sir.” Then No. 2 leaves, perfectly satisfied, and
hands the goods to the bunco-man. Just after
3 p.m, two infuriated men in aprons visit the local
police-station.
“In Mexico and Central America, for
example, the only American journal that has a
wide circulation is the Illustrated Police
Gazette, The dwellers there have largely based
their ideas of American life and manners on that
perhaps interesting and certainly widely-circulated
sheet. They believe, for example, that it is an
every-day occurrence in American cities for a lady
of high birth in a low-necked dress and short skirt
(with striped stockings) to attack ferociously upon
the street another wealthy lady (also in striped
stockings). They believe that in the swell resi-
dence quarters of New York one frequently sees a
professional man of high rank holding out of the
window by her back-hair his wife (in striped
stockings). They know that one often sees in
Boston a Beacon-street maiden suddenly pause,
draw a pistol from her pocket, fire it down her
aesophagus, and die upon the sidewalk in horrible
‘ uvulsions (and in striped stockings).”—Jerome
Hart.
Old Geordie, the cattle-dealer, suspected
of “duffing ” when life was young, came down
primed with rum into the hut, and there saw The
Bulletin Xmas No. containing Hop’s series of
pictures illustrative of the humanitarian’s vain
attempt to furnish a stump tailed cow, grievously
tormented by flies, with an artificial tail. “By
gum, ” said Geordie, “ that puts me in mind of
the time I duffed Harry Evans’ dun cow. She
was a great favourite, and had the queerest brush
to her tail I ever saw. The brush was jet-black.
Well, I duffed her, cut off the black brush, and
-pi iced on another, longer and of a dun colour. I
drove her with a mob into the sale-yards at
Mattawarrungala. Sure enough, Harry Evans
was there. When the dun cow was trotted out,
Harry jumped down from the stock-yard rail and
cried: ‘ I could swear that cow was mine, if it
wasn't for the brush.’ 4 Could you ? ’ said I whip-
ping out my knife and cutting off the brush—
‘ now swear to it, you rascally scoundrel! ’ ”
Take Ayer’s Pills, and be cured. Misery is a
mild word to describe the sufferings of body
and mind, caused by habitual constipation. A
moderate use of Ayer’s Pills will invariably
regulate the bowels.
Editor Bulletin, — I have now been about
fourteen months tramping round in search of
work, and have gone over 2500 miles on foot in
N.S. W. and Victoria. Am a journeyman printer
by trade, but have taken any job that came. On
one station I visited during shearing a man to roll
wool was wanted. I applied, but was told that
they didn’t intend to engage anyone travelling in
search of work—and so I had to tramp on. Men
ompelled to travel are now invariably regarded
is loafers. The squatters are posting notices that
the rations doled out to travellers will be stopped.
Men will this summer simply be driven to despera-
tion—the results are easily imagined. At Forbes,
where this is written, there are now 80 to 100 men
who have been unable to get work during shear-
ing, now practically over : elsewhere things are no
better. To illustrate the advantage taken of
tramps : At one printing-office I applied for work;
the proprietor wanted a first-class job-printer—
one who could produce references and turn out
work equal to that done in the city—and he offered
30s. weekly. At another place (in Vic.) I was
offered, and had to take, 255. for a single week’s
work.—W.B.


The people of Queensland, in
Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Brisbane),
where the FINEST STOCK in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts. Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockeryware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low-priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES ! 1 This can be proved in the
most satisfactory manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the only reliable test. Everything
in their line can be had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S except shoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, and remittance to cover
amount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Bank Drafts, <fec., payable to FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.
Samples, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for men’s or
women’s clothing, Price-lists, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will be immediately forwarded
on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers),
Brisbane, Maryborough <P London .
GOLDSBROUGH,
MORT & CO.
(LIMITED.)
Hon. HENRY MORT, M.1.C.,
Adviser.
JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Shipping Manager.
LESLEY HERRING,
Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
V —AND —
Station Agents.
STORES:
circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
THE OLD ORDER CHAIMGETH !
When a naan gets more than a hundred years of age he wishes himself dead. The friends of his youth have
gone, the companions of his later life are no more; he is surrounded by tombstones, he vegetates in a graveyard
full of departed hopes and bygone pleasures. This little story illustrates the necessity tor change. Nations must
change their laws, communities their customs, people their habits, in obedience to the law which makes
CHANGE A NECESSITY OF EXISTENCE.
BUSINESS FIRMS are not exempt, they SERVE THE FUBLIC,
and if they would bo successful must vary their ways and change their bill, in accordance with the people’s cir-
cumstances and the public taste. Arguing thus
We Re-Moael our Prices,
BBCAUSB
A Small Profit
SUITS
A Large Business.
Low as our prices have been in the past, and much as those of other firms have lost by comparison, our selling
rates are now lower still. In the operation of this desirable change QUALITY does not suffer deterioration,
PRICES only are on a LOWER SCALE.
W© pay Trainage or Shipping Freight to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales on all
Parcels of the value of £2 10s. and upwards, excepting Furniture, Ironmongery, Crockery and Glass.
Grocery, Toys, Harness, Floorcloths, Bedsteads and Bedding, and other heavy and bulky goods.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
lIAYMARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY,
TJ IsT I "VIE ESAL PBOVIDERS.
(Close to the Radway Station.)
ƒ
f
fo
Tl)t Ncw7
Ilkeynje
The new Wa-
terbury watch has a jeweled
movement and is cased in
coin-silver, and gold filled"
cases.
American machinery-and
brains have added beauty
and elegance to a watch that
WaS always noted 3S 3
Good time-keeper.
It is still a low-priced watch.
No cheap Swiss watch-
made by the foreign labor
system—can compare with
it.
Any jeweler telle it.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
%
's
ƒ
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S sweet)
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
V >^ ERY
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Stree' 1
Beware ofimitations. The genuine is signed
HWA MMWtaMm o«n>
f
Mr. T. J. CLUNEr
Of Walherville, South Australia. -
Completely cured of Indigestioii and
Liver Complaint by the use of si*
bottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla-
« u wa— ■'
AYER’S SARSAPARILLA
that tells the story.
“ Six years ago I had an attack of Indigestion
and Liver Complaint that lasted for weeks; I was
unable to do any hard work, had no appetite, food
distressed me, and I suffered much from headaches
My skin was sallow and sleep did not refresh me.l
tried several remedies aid consulted a doctou
without obtaining any relief ; finally one of m»
customers recommended your Sarsaparilla, UJ
helped me from the first, relieved the distress
about my liver, caused my food to set well on my
stomach, stopped my headaches and res’ored my
appetite, in fact, after taking six bottles I was
completely cured and could eat anything and
sleep like a child.”-T. J. Clunk, W alkorville,
South Australia.
ASK FOR AYER’S SARSAPARILLA.
Take no other!
By using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla the b'ood is
thoroughly cleansed and invigorated and the,
appetite stimulated.
Ayer’s Sarsapardlia
Made by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
The last lot of buffalo-hides from the N.T.
(470) brought 4Jd. to 4|d. per lb. in Brisbane. At
this rate the buffalo will soon be as extinct as is the
moa in Maoriland. The shooting party that sent
this lot to Brisbane has broken up its camp on
the mainland and transferred its plant to Mel-
ville Island.
MORE LIKELY TO BREAK DOWN.
Who hasn’t heard of the good old Deacon in
America, and his idea of how a chaise should be
built so as to run for ever without repairs? I dare
say we all have, yet it hasn’t quite gone stale yet.
He said, you remember, that the reason chaises
broke down and didn’t wear out was that there
was always a weakest spot somewhere about them.
Now, said the Deacon, the way to fix it is to make
that spot as strong as the rest. Then the vehicle
might wear out, but couldn’t break down. He
built a chaise on that principle; it never broke
down ; it ran a hundred years exactly, and then
one day it went to pieces all at once; all at once
and nothing first, just as bubbles do when they
burst. Its time was come; for, as the man says
who once told the story in rhyme, “ little of all
we value here, wakes on the morn of its hundredth
year, without both feeling and looking queer.”
Yes, and long before that time most of us begin
to look and feel fjueer. And it’s all on account of
that weak spot, too. If it wasn’t for that we
should be like the Deacon’s chaise—we should run
till we wear out. As it is we break down on the
road, often beyond repair. But not always.
Otherwise a certain man could never have used
these words, “ I feel as smart to-day as I did
thirty years ago." His story, in his own words,
runs this way :
“From my youth I was never properly well.
I had a bad taste in the mouth and pain after eat-
ing. Often I couldn’t touch food when it was set
before me, I felt a gnawing at the stomach and a
tightness at the chest and sides. Sometimes my
bowels were so swollen I had to loose my clothes.
I had violent pains in my head for days together.
This continued for years and years. About thirty
years ago I began to have rheumatic pains all over
me, especially in the back and legs. I got so bad
I couldn’t walk without a stick, and on my way to
and from my work I had to sit down and rest.
“ I got no proper sleep at night owing to the
pain. Day nor night, I never knew what it was
to be free from pain. As time went by I became
quite crippled. Doctor after doctor gave me
medicines and rubbing bottles, but none of the
things I tried did any good. The doctors said my
ailment was rheumatism and lumbago and made
light of it, but it was serious enough to me. For
thirty years I suffered dreadfully. My wife used
to rub me before the fire night after night and
apply flannels, relieving me only for the time. I
gave up all hope of ever being well again, when
in November, 1887, I read of the good Mother
Seigel’s Syrup had done in so many cases. I
began to use it, and after taking a few bottles all
my aches and pains left me and have never re-
turned since. This medicine seems to have driven
all the poison out of my system, and I feel as
smart to-day as I did thirty years ago, for which
I thank God and Seigel’s Syrup, Had I used it
sooner I should have been saved years of suffer-
ing.” (Signed) William Stoddart, Douglas,
near Cork, Ireland, January 7th, 1892.
Mr. Stoddart is gardener at Mrs. Edwards’, the
Island, Rochestown, and has a shop at Douglas,
He is a very respectable man and has been in
service at Mrs. Edwards’ twenty years.
In his letter he further states that from boy-
hood he was a victim to indigestion and dyspepsia.
This fact explains the rheumatism, as it was the
cause of it. The bile acids from the torpid
stomach and liver filled the blood, lodged in the
joints and muscles, and gave rise to all the con-
sequences he describes. The effect of the Syrup
was to expel the acids from the body and set the
digestive machinery healthily at work, for the
first time in this man’s life.
This was the way the human vehicle broke down
in Mr. Stoddart’s case, but fortunately for him he
came across something that had power to repair
it. Better watch the weak spots. Delays are
dangerous.
A Melb. Cup Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a handsome little thing, a blonde, charm-
ingly dressed in something simple and extremely
dear. She sat on a seat surrounding a fine, shady
tree near the birdcage, and watched the crowd of
men struggling at the counter of one of the refresh-
ment booths, with an envious light in her tender
blue eyes. He sat on the same seat, and glared
moodily at the tuft of grass he was prodding
viciously with his stick. He had been backing
favourites. They were strangers. Presently she
spoke.
“ I beg your pardon, sir, but I need a cup of tea
so much, and I am afraid I could make no im-
pression on that crowd at the counter. Will you
be so kind ?”
She field out a tiny purse towards him, and
looked girlishly diffident, conscious that she was
doing quite the right thing, and yet a little
beseeching. He responded promptly. His hand
went to his pocket, but at the same time he took
the girl’s “ measure,” and then his hand came
back again. She was certainly ladylike and
ingenuous, so far as it is given to man to judge of
a woman by appearances. He took her purse.
When he returned with the tea, she thanked
him and smiled. He would have gone, but she
said she hoped he would not leave his seat on her
account, so he sat down again.
She asked him presently if he did not think the
horses were perfectly lovely, and when he en-
thusiastically admitted that they were, she
was encouraged to tell him that papa had
left her there to take a rest whilst
he wandered through the birdcage. She
hoped he had not forgotten her. They drifted
into quite a conversation. She was prettily un-
sophisticated and debonair, and so amused the
man of the world that he forget even his losses.
It was quite a quarter of an hour before she
detected the figure of her papa and fluttered off
amongst the crowd, giving the stranger another
smile. He leaned back and sighed. In a while
his hand went to his pocket, feeling for his watch,
his fifty-guinea gold chronometer jewelled in
numerous holes, a present from his wealthy maiden
aunt.
It was twenty minutes to five.
Moral: No chestnuts.
SILAS SNELL.
Gov. Duff says that he only said that Mel-
bourne was the finest city in the Southern Hemi-
sphere out of compliment for the warmth of
the hospitality extended to him. What a
Talleyrand ! It’s just like a man saying, “Well,
he gave me a d d good dinner, so I told him
his children were remarkably intelligent. Had
to say something, you know.” Apropos , Jean
Ylark has been lying in irons under sentence of
death for weeks and weeks at Broken Hill during
all the hot weather, and has not had his fate
finally settled simply because Gov. Duff aforesaid
has been gadding about the country talking, as
per extract, and sipping iced drinks at Melb, Cup
—instead of staying in Sydney and minding the
business for which he gets <£7ooo a year, &o.
Prize exhibits of S.M. Herald journalism
extracted from last Tuesday’s leading article :
Exhibit A.—lt is easy to explain the conditions which
have led to the practice of, we may perhaps say, hundreds
of men sleeping out in the street as described by our
reporter in another column, from his observations last
night. The warm climate of Sydney, and the abundance
of shelter provided by our public parks and rock-nooks
at Macquarie Point and elsewhere, have caused the
practice of sleeping out to become a general one in the
summer time.
Also, it is more easy to explain that the warm
climate produces biliousness when too much food
is eaten, hence many men are now eating one
small meal daily, instead of three large ones;
likewise, the warm climate and the prevalence of
corns account for men having vast holes in their
boots, etc., etc.
Exhibit B.— lt cannot be regarded as superfluous to
draw the attention of the city authorities to the matter
and to the desirability of providing a remedy if possible. *
Then again, “it cannot be regarded as superfluous
to draw the attention” of the S.M. Herald to
the fact that it is time for it to climb down from
its lofty position of haughty indifference to the
sufferings of everybody outside the circle of
parsons, fat men, and finance-mongers generally.
At Broken Hill, one Snell, charged with
bigamy, triumphantly handed in the certificate of
his first marriage, with a statement by his wife
on the back that she released him from all respon-
sibility on her account, and that he could marry
again “ when he liked, or otherwise.” Defendant,
in his copious ignorance of law and orthodox
morality, evidently regarded this as a sufficient
defence, and when he heard that he and his wife
couldn’t dissolve their own marriage when they
wanted to, he fell back in an astonished heap,
and was remanded. Regarded as a specimen
of blank ignorance and child - like credulity,
Mr. Snell is doubtless a lamentable circumstance,
but otherwise The Bulletin fails to see why so
much fuss should be made over him. The law
justly recognises that when two people marry, it
is entirely their own affair. And, provided there
are no children by the marriage, it is equally their
own affair when they uamarry. The principal
weak points about Mr. Snell’s unmarriage seem to
be that the statements of both parties were not
endorsed on the certificate, and that the dissolu-
tion was not registered in some public office where
it could be referred to when wanted. With the
exception of these two circumstances, Mr. Snell,
in his ignorance, seems to be a lot more logical
than all the machinery of Judge Windeyer’s
Court.
Every day it becomes more evident tha* s
the small sugar-farmer in Queensland is slowly
being eaten up by the big monopolies, to whose
tails he is now compelled, perforce, to cling.
A lady has returned to Australia who
once was barmaid in a leading city hotel and left
it to marry an Englishman who took her ’Ome.
In two years the pair went through =£70,000.
Hubby has not come back with his wife.
The bottom has fallen out of the fortunes
of Richard Speight. When the interminable
Speight-Syme libel-case was called upon once
more bn Monday last, his lawyer, Duffy, an-
nounced that the indomitable railroader was pen-
niless. He could no longer find the wherewithal
even to pay his share of the daily fee of the official
reporter. The noblest ending to the trouble would
be for Speight and Syme to drop their case by
mutual consent, and the plaintiff and defendant
to have a dinner together at the latter’s
expense, and then for Syme to present Speight
with a cheque for =£sooo and a saloon passage to
England for self and family, and give three cheers
on the wharf when the steamer with the ex-Com-
missioner gets out into the bay.
The six planks selected by the N.S.W.
Political Labour Conference as a “fighting plat-
form ” are :
(1) Land-value Taxation; (2) Mining on Private Pro-
perty ; (3) Abolition of Upper House and introduction of
Referendum ; (4) Local Government; (5) State Bank ; (6)
Legalisation of Eight-Hours Day.
On the first five of these planks delegates were
almost unanimous, but on the compulsory eight-
hour principle there was much divergence of
opinion, the opposition coming almost entirely
from the country delegates. This being so, the
plank should not have been included in the fight-
ing platform. For if there was such a difference
of opinion in the Conference upon the matter,
what will be the result in the electorates?
Many of the resolutions submitted at the
N.S.W. Labour Conference to make the Labour-
member feel like a Chinaman, though not passed,
received a good deal of support. There was a
motion compelling the member to contribute 1 per
cent, of his screw for propaganda purposes, which
percentage was seriously “amended “to ■£! per
week; while another genius suggested that the Par-
liamentarian’s allowance should be drawn by a
committee who should pay his board and lodging
and washing (washing should have been struck
out—the labour representative should wash his
own shirt) and devote the rest to the fighting
platform; upon which Sohey, M.P., burlesqued
the whole proceeding by moving that the Labour-
member contribute the whole of his Parliamentary
allowance.
After the recorded loss of somewhere
about 20 divers’ lives in as many months in Torres
Straits pearling grounds, Govt, has forbidden
diving at a depth of over 10 fathoms. But the
mere issuing of such a regulation is a farce.
Suppose that under this ukase a diver goes down
in 20 or 24 fathoms and is hauled up dead, will
the owner and sailors of the lugger go to Thursday
Island to tell John Douglas that the man died
while diving at a proscribed depth ? All future
deaths will, it is safe to predict, occur where the
“depth was under 10 fathoms,” or “just ten
fathoms.” The Tahitian Chamber of Commerce
which controls the pearling industry in the Gam-
bier Group and other islands of the Low Archi-
pelago, long ago fixed 10 fathoms as the limit for
the use of the diving apparatus, contending that
shells in deeper water should be left for breeding
purposes, and even in less depths all shell below
standard size is not touched. Some 15 years ago
a Yankee schooner went through the Paumotu,
and her divers swept the lagoons of every shell
they could lay hands on over 4 inches in diameter.
Luckily for them they escaped from the group
before a report of their doings reached the Govern-
ment at Papeite.
There was a solemn rush of noble peers to
London when it became known that Duke Fife
would travel all the way from Braemar to vote
against the Home Rule Bill. Fife was the signal
that Her Majesty expected every lord to do his
duty, so they staggered up to the House in various
stages of physical decay, and a wonderful assort-
ment of mental absurdity. All the peers who
have been dead to the world for a long term of
years were divested of their cobwebs and delivered
at the door of the Hereditary Chamber, special
flunkeys being told off for the purpose of feeding
them through a quill whenever they suffered
relapses. Marquises who couldn’t walk were
wheeled in by the dozen. One particularly mad
baron was kept under the seat in a canvas-bag
until the division-bell rang. Then they let him
loose in the middle of a mob of “Noes” and shoved
him along under the delusion that he was witness-
ing the coronation of William IV. The groans
of decrepit dukes mingled with the hiccups of
earls that couldn’t be kept sober, were only parti-
ally drowned by thecoughsofasthmatical viscounts,
and the “ historic speech ” of Lord Salisbury had
to be frequently suspended whilst a pillar of the
State crawled out into the lobby to break another
bloodvessel. The newspapers next day described
this gathering of shattered relics as an “ imposing
sight,” which, from the British Lion’s point of
view, it certainly was. But the press said never
a word about the glass eyes, false teeth, and other
fragments of old nobility that were picked up by
Chamberlain Carington after the Bill had been
vetoed and the empire saved.


f
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
The Brand of a Child of
Cain.
Editor Bulletin, —Sir, —As it seems to me that here in
your paper alone the things which I of all the world
know best are understandingly written of, I send you the
accompanying. It is wrung from me by compulsion. It
will be new truth to some. It may induce some to think,
but I have not much hope—not much. How, indeed, can
hope enter into the life of — A Murderer’s Daughter?
Is it possible that such a one ever sought to make
her voice heard in the world before ? I think not.
Not since the day when she made her last appeal
for a little of man’s mercy, not since that morn-
ing when she waited with brain on fire—oh, that
it would consume ! with heart breaking, oh, that
it would burst asunder! Not since that day
when out of every door the newsboys burst yelling
her shame, her doom, when every wall echoed it,
when every eye proclaimed it when
Oh, God, it comes again as I write ! I will
speak of it, think of it no more. And yet I must,
fora compelling power has been growing within
and gathering about me for years and years. It
may sleep awhile, but never does that happen,
that crowd gather, that yell burst forth, without
two effects on me. First a flood of memory, salt
as brine, fierce as fire, penetrating as caustic on
raw flesh ; next an approach, real, as it seems to
me, of women such as I was, of children like those
I knew, crying to me, “ Speak ! speak ! you
know ! Tell it to the world, ask it of the world ! ”
\ es, I will tell; I will ask. I have made up
my mind at last. I am safe myself, so changed,
so old, so hardened by the stripes, so calloused by
the fires of suffering, that I think no blow could
bruise, no fire could burn me now. And they are
safe. I have buried them so well, so far away.
I shall only be silent in one particular. It will
be as to the manner of my departure from them.
They were old enough then to remember well, and
this might reach them, and from that point they
might begin to think. They must never begin to
think, and so in that little matter I must be still.
I tell you it is only a little matter. It is only as
to the way I escaped from the children when the
last was buried— in the world, and from the
world.
Now, I would ask my question, for I would wish
every man, every law-maker, every Judge, to have
it in his mind while he reads. It is this. Is any
law or any court justified in inflicting such a
doom as that which I endure? Think as you
read. Society hangs twenty, a hundred, people
in the yea-r, and so it inflicts similar dooms
on hundreds of women year by year. Is it right?
Is it just ? If you will not answer these questions
in all their fullness I shall have written in vain.
This is ray tale. It was my father. Always
selfish always passionate, a bad man—l say it
still, fie was fairly well-to-do, loving his sub-
stance better than anything else. He knew that
his neighbour robbed him, the law failed to pro-
tect him. He shot that neighbour down, murdered
him. I never sought to deny that. He was tried
and condemned, as was just. And then we onl.V
begged a little mercy—we, there were three of u s
sisters—one was married and had children; one
was a girl of 16, and I a woman of 20. The
father of the children managed a bank in the little
town. And I had a lover, and he may read this,
for he lives. It will not hurt him. Nothing
could have hurt him save mixture with my polluted
blood, and from that I saved him. Yes, for he
was worthy to be saved.
I will tell of it as it came. When the last days
drew nigh we began to feel that the prison was a
Leaven. We could think of his long life spent
therewith composure. We knew the dreadfulness
of the doom; we would have shared it if we could.
We knew, he knew, and confessed, that to him
the drop into the darkness was the least of all
punishments. I believe he would rather have
died than have stepped into the world again with
his shame about him. And to such as he the
prison-cell was as the tomb. Keeping him there
was as burying him while yet he lived.
They could not punish him by the scaffold.
It was kind to him and only cruel to us
who had no share in his sin. All these things we
said. All these things we pleaded day by day.
For, day by day, we felt the horror of that other
doom growing about us. The rope, the crowd,
the yell in the streets, the rotting corpse in the
unhallowed grave. These would be ours, these
the law would bind on us and on our children to
bear about for ever.
All these came; and with them, and whatever
else we possessed, we fled from the accursed place
and sought to hide ourselves in a city—in this
city. He, the man I loved, followed, and I met
him once. It was on a hill, miles from the streets;
we could walk there. I never rode then, nor went
to any place where my voice might be heard, or
my face seen by a crowd. And I will be brief
now and very plain, for it is in justice to him I
set this down. He may see it, and must know
that I am just, and hold jhim now as then, noble
and free of blame. He said, “Come with me.
My name shall be your shield, or—come with me,
and together we shall hide ourselves from the
world, and I will provide for the others.” He was
rich ; he could and would have fulfilled all that
he promised in their behalf. And —he was more
than bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh; he
was the man I loved, I would have given up
them—yes, even the children—for him. But I
would not bind that rope about the necks of his
offspring and mine. I would not attach that
festering corpse to their dear lives. My God ! I
believe that if ever I had borne children there
would have been rope-marks about their necks,
and hideous, nameless things would have appeared
on their innocent bodies. Or, otherwise,
would have controlled my being, and monsters
have been born into the world. I saved myself
that sin. I said “No.” And then, as it ended,
let it end now, for words of terlderness here would
be like lily flowers about the scaffold.
Then the life whose story the world never
before heard, began. He, the children’s father,
did what nearly all men would have done —drank;
and I never dissuaded him. I knew that the
burying of the children was left to me, and to me
alone. She, their mother, would die. She did
die, in childbirth, some months after. The girl,
my sister, was the only trouble to which I could
see no end ; and what I ultimately did against her
—ah ! for that there will be no forgiveness. Let
there be no God ! Let there be no resurrection, is
now my only prayer! He, the father, and I
plotted at times how we might in some way make
utterly an end ; but with the children it seemed
always impossible. I soon learned how easily
could kill myself, I quickly understood that
killing him, their father, would be no crime. But
the children ! They must, they should be saved.
He had some property. All that we converted
into money. The murderer’s, my father’s, small
property had become ours. I got money for that
also, and I gave him money, just enough to bring
him to the only possible end ; and all the rest I
hoarded.
She, my living sister (I name no names), did
not trouble me much just then. The suffering had
crushed her—for a while. The little children
played about; the eldest was but five. And I
romped with them, and bought them books and
toys, and watched to see if even the eldest under-
stood, if the evil thing had possessed them in any
way, and soon I was convinced that it had not.
If I was sure that God lived I would thank Him
for so much good. It was the only mercy vouch-
safed to me since “ that.”
He died sooner than I had hoped. He would
try, poor wretch, to cheek himself at times; would
look at his children and weep maudlin tears, and
say that he must do something for them. I knew
he could only bring “that” upon them. When
he did not drink, sleep forsook him. Then I pro-
cured him drugs, so that within a week he was as
one palsy-stricken. I took every paper and means
of identification from him and waited for that
which happened. He wandered off a railway-
station to the lines and an engine met and killed
him. No one living but I could recognise the
gathered-up fragments. I went down to the
morgue and looked and knew them, and shook my
head and turned away with a murder on my con-
science but another ray of hope in my soul.
And now we must journey again. I took them
all to another city, and the trouble of my sister
began. Ah God ! you lacked even the pity to
crush her utterly. She was but 17. She could not
die, she would not live the living death. She
knew not that the horror was upon her; she did
not recognise that, though it seemed to have
departed, it would surely return. I saw the glow
return to her cheeks. I bade her teach the chil-
dren, but that would not content her. I noticed a
petulance in her ways, and I learned that other
eyes had met hers, for I knew the signs. Then I
reasoned and supplicated, and showed her the
horror which she must carry with her to the grave
and bequeath surely to any begotten of her. And
when I saw that all was of no avail, I would have
strangled her with my hands but that I knew so
doing I should give cause for the making of
another horror which none could keep from the
children’s heads. Then I thought if by any means
I could procure her immurement in some convent.
For I thought I could toil for the children, but it
could not be. And at last I saw her lover and
knew that, God failing, the Devil had found a
way. I paid her no heed, I cast off every guard,
and when her shame was at last discovered I gave
her over to evil women only less evil than myself.
And I took the children and fled with them again.
But I knew of a poor ghost who ■ walked the
streets of that city, who walks for ever in my
dreams. I knew how she had obtained the drink
to madden, the drugs to destroy her. And it
endured for two years. For more than seven
hundred days and nights I laboured at that mur-
der until I brought it to an end, and was, for the
children’s sake, free. Free! Ah, there is no
power to bring the dead in any form to earth
again, or my father’s ghost would have sought to
stay, or to avenge that sin. His crime was as a
little child’s fault of temper compared with mine.
And yet I was once a woman whom a true mar
loved, and deemed myself, and was indeed,
worthy of his love.
So I taught them. I, now with two murders on
my conscience and almost absolute assurance in
my soul, with a despair in my ej es which the
world took for resignation, and a steadfastness
of purpose welded in fiercest fires of Hell, which
the world took for noble resolution in the fulfil-
ment of duty.
Then with the children I was safe, for I had
schooled them well. They knew that mother was
in Heaven with baby ; that father was drowned at
sea; that only auntie was left,
The children grew, and I, cunning in every
device, increased their store of wealth. I had
cleverness in many ways, and I made for them
friends. No need to prolong it. The youngest
was twelve. Their means were so well-known
that there was no fear of friendship failing ; I
resolved at last to rid them of myself. Death
would have been by far the easiest, the most wel-
come way, but if any wronged them, I knew that I
could not rise from the dead. I must needs live
and watch, and if any evil thing approached be
prepared to strike. But evil kept away. It seems
to me at times that my crimes and my self-immo-
lation have been accepted as atonement for them,
Sunshine has been above their heads and flowers
about their feet, and ’tis now ten years since the
youngest married.
And I stand on the scaffold for hours every
night. I bear the rope about my neck every day.
I am affianced to a corpse that will not rot away ;
I am haunted by one ghost of mangled body and
protruding brain, and another livid with the
agonies of sin and shame. I search out in history
and romance all wicked women and wronged
women ; but I can find none whose crimes may be
compared with, whose wrongs equal, mine,
How long it may endure Ido not know. Death
in life is with me now. I have neither joy nor
hope, nor fear nor remorse. I shudder over the
possibility of an awakening after death. If ever
I pray it is that there may be no resurrection for
me. There was no God when I would have
immolated myself as Fakir never did, could but he
have compelled one atom of man’s mercy. No
God, when I prayed for some shield and shelter,
and not for myself but for them, and let there be
none to disturb me when at last I sleep indeed,
when my brain is rotten and I cannot dream,
when my heart is consumed and I cannot fee),
I will return to my question now. I will say
you, your law, doomed rny father to be hanged
for murder, and at the same time doomed me to
become twice a murderess, to forfeit every hope in
life and death, to live in ceaseless agony, to die
in despair. You were most merciful to the
murderer. In very truth you spared him that
you might torture others. Oh your laws!
Your sophistries, your wicked perversions
of simplest facts ! Have T not studied
them, confuted them day by day, and year by
year! You shift all responsibility, all blame.
from yourselves to the criminal. You say it is
but the fruit of You lie as you say
it. Did you, by legal process, change the mur-
derer into a raving maniac, and send him mad-
dening through the world to kill and slay until he
himself had slain, would his victims have no just
cause against you ? And what differs it if you
make of him a horror, a red-hot, burning, hissing
brand of shame, an influence to blast and defile
the living and the yet unborn ? Is it right? Is it
just? If you speak of necessity I would ask, do
you seriously believe that any man contemplating
murder was stayed by consideration of the differ


ƒ
f
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
I
m
m.
nwi
Vr-zm.
m.
L /M i«2S
WilfMmmM
%
m
wtm&m
m
« I
f i
m
&*%k i
Ss.
m.
mm
IK. cqco^
ft;
m
r A
X-V.--'
y/M^r
i
%
w*
'llllu W
ence between hanging and life-long imprisonment?
If so, you have read very little in the book Of
crime, and still less in that larger volume of
human nature. The certainty that the prison-
gate closes as falls the stone on the tomb is to the
criminal in thought or in deed appalling as the
gallows and punishment sufficient for any crime.
Punishment, also, which is direct, and as directly
as may be confined to its object. For let it be
understood, and—oh ! that all men might clear
their minds so that understanding in this might be
possible.
It is not the brand of murder which the world
sees in the murderer’s kith and kin; it is not the
relationship to the imprisoned felon. It is the
law’s murder, the taint of the gallows, the ever-
lasting infamy of the unhallowed burial. These
are never forgiven, never forgotten, never tolerated
by men as they are. If you reply, “They ought
to be,” the answer is—your, laws are made for
society as it is and not as it ought to be. You, by
your legal act, make the shame, the taint, the ter-
rible exigency which necessitates the frequent long
succession of crimes which —O impotent judges 1 —
you have no power either to avert or to avenge 1
These things, I say, I have learned by much
pondering. If you answer they are phantasies
and dreams, I tell you first you lie, and then I say
to you, search now your own memory. Let every
man and every woman turn over all the leaves of
recollection and say how often they have known,
not the murderer’s, but the hanged man’s child ?
Here one, and there one, brazening out the shame,
but where are the multitude ? They are buried,
even as I am buried, for time and for eternity.
Ay, it is true. Multiply the story a hundred and
a thousand fold and you may know something of
the true effect of the gallows, and the far-reaching
efficacy of the hangman and the rope.
I have nothing more to say. I have little hope
that anything said will have any effect. This is
simply wrung from me by a constraint I imagine
to be duty. I can do no more. 1 fall again into
my living grave, caring very little how soon the
clods begin to fall on a murderer’s, or, rather, A
Hanged Man’s Daughter.
Tiger Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Horrible and I had stayed the night before at a
travelling sheep-camp and were just saddling up
to start when a young, well-dressed, new-chum-
looking fellow rode up and got off his horse to
boil his billy at our fire. After a talk, he asked
Horrible which way we were going with the
sheep, and was told in off-hand style that we
were taking them down to Gunbar, had brought
them from Bignell’s on the Widgee, &e., &c.
Now, Horrible didn’t know a thing in the world
about those sheep, but he was, sad to relate, a
liar. Just as we were about to mount, the
stranger made some remark about a smart-looking
dog which was working the sheep close to us ; for,
by this time, the real drovers had begun to shift
the mob.
“ Good dog, eh?” said Horrible. “Oh no, he’s
no earthly use, not a little bit, ‘ Tiger Boy ’ ain’t,
but I’ve seen him round up three rabbits and put
’em in a rifle-barrel. Look here, mate. I’ll tell
that dog I want a killin’ sheep an’ he’ll fetch me
the fattest one in that mob. Smart? Why, I’ve
seen him put a camel through the eye of a
needle.”
It seems the young fellow was going up to help
bring down a mob, and wanted a good dog badly,
as )ie wouldn’t get the job without one. Anyhow
after a lot of haggling, Horrible finally disposed
of “Tiger Boy” for .£3, as he said he reckoned
to get to Gunbar in a week or so, and after that
he wouldn’t want him particularly. He pocketed
the money, got on his horse, ordered me to keep
well to the left of the mob, and told the stranger
he would go round to the waggon and get the
dog’s 1 collar and chain. Then he sang out, “ Hool
’em up !” once or twice, and disappeared in the
dust. When he and I met, a mile further on, his
only remark was, “I generally come in when it
tains. ”
We kept going at a good bat, but stopped long
enough to boil the billy, at dinner-time, as Hor-
rible reckoned that, even if the stranger was fool
enough to follow us, he could do nothing, having
no proof. La*e'in the afternoon, the sky began
to blacken, and we could hear the low rumbling of
the thunder away back over the.plainsto the west.
Horrible pulled up suddenly and pointed down an
old track almost hidden with long grass. He said
that about three-miles through the scrub there was
an old empty hut where he had camped once
before, and that we had better make it and camp
for the night.
It was nearly dark, and a few big drops of rain
were falling, when we got to Horrible’s promised
shelter ; then we found that the hut had been
burnt down and the only shed had no roof on it,
I Was jlist going to “ perform ”in my own paltry,
frivolous way, when Horrible asked me quietly to
hold his horse. Then I knew that something was
about to be said. He stepped out a few yards
from the horses, coughed once or twice to clear
•his throat, held his right hand as high as ever he
could reach in the air, started hopping on one foot,
and invented some high-class blasphemy. Hor-
rible claims the “ language ” championship of the
Barcoo ever since he swore at the dry skeleton of
a bullock which had been dead for two years until
it got up and jumped a fence.
Just as he was beginning this time to climb
right up into the air—l think it was in clause 17 —
I happened to see a stripper over in a paddock on
our left. In a few seconds we had hobbled our
horses, thrown swags, saddles, and things inside
the stripper, and then I got in and fixed the bed
with saddles for pillows, while Horrible put a flat-
rail over the netting on the top to keep the rain
out, and turned the machine round facing the
wind.
I think that was the most comfortable night I
ever put in, lying in there snug and dry, listening
to the rain, wind, and thunder outside. Of course
I knew all along that this storm was nothing to
storms that Horrible had seen, but, thank Heaven,
it made too much row for me to hear about the
others. Next morning, we were awakened by
loud knocking on the door, and the man who had
bought the dog asked us, in a sneering and un-
gentlemanly way, which way we were going.
Quiok as lightning. Horrible kicked the door, but
of course it was locked on the outside.
“Look here, mates, you can’t get out; even
‘ Tiger Boy ’ couldn’t get you out; and there’s not
a living soul within 10 miles of here, and not
likely to be for weeks ; so, if you don’t hand that
£3 through the front there, I’ll go away and not
discover you for a few weeks. Lively, now !”
Horrible’s eyes stuck out till I could have hung
a saddle on them. “ That’ll do, now, you needn’t
change your voice. I know your horses. Besides,
didn’t I follow you here last night and camp
undsr the stripper all night? I’m wet through,
too. Fork that out, but don’t be rash. If you
are, I’ll give you a fortnight to think it over.”
After a lot of hammering we got the blade of a
sheath-knife through the galvanised-iron door*
but the outside party broke it off short with a
stick or something. It was a case now, as the
stripper was lined with pine boards, and we could
never kick our way out; so, after pounding awhile
with a stirrup-iron to see if something wouldn’t
give, we had to cave in.
The stranger took the money through the front,
and then went and got our horses, loosed the
hobbl es, and drove them a long way ahead. Then
he opened the door without dismounting, and was
away like a released pigeon. He drove our horses
35 miles that day.
Horrible had never used an oath inside the
stripper—he hadn’t room enough—but when he
got out !!!!
BOILING BILLY.
Some Popular Australian Mistakes.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
1. An Australian mirage does not look like
water ; it looks too dry and dusty.
2. A plain is not necessarily a wide, open space
covered with waving grass or green sward, like a
prairie (the prairie isn’t necessarily that way either,
but that’s an American mistake, not an Australian
one); it is either a desert or a stretch of level
country covered witli wretched scrub.
3. A river is not a broad, shining stream with
green banks and tall, dense eucalypti walls ; it is
more often a string of muddy water-holes—“ a
chain of dry water-holes,” someone said.
4. There are no “ mountains ” out West; only
ridges on the floors of hell.
5. There are no forests ; only mongrel scrubs.
6. Australian poetical writers invariably get
the coastal scenery mixed up with that of “ Out
Back. ”
7. An Australian Western homestead is not an
old-fashioned, gable-ended, brick-and-shingle
building with avenues and parks ; and the squatter
doesn’t live there, either. A Western station, at
best, is a collection of slab and galvanised-iron
sheds and humpies, and is the hottest, driest,
dustiest, and most God-forsaken hole you could
think of; the manager lives there—when com-
pelled to do so.
8. The manager is not called the “super.;” he
is called the “overseer”—which name fits him
better.
9. Station-hands are not noble, romantic fellows;
they are mostly crawlers to the boss—which they
have to be. Shearers—the men of the West—
despise station-hands.
10. Men tramping in search of a “shed” are
not called “sundowners” or “swaggies;” they
are “trav’lers.”
11. A swag is not generally referred to as a
“ bluey ”or “ Matilda”—it is called a “ swag.”
12. No bushman thinks of “going on the
wallaby” or “walking Matilda,” or “padding
the hoof ; ” he goes on the track—when forced to’t.
13. You do not “hump bluey”—you simply
“carry your swag.’
14. You do not stow grub—you “have some
tucker, mate.”
15. (Item for our Australian artists). A traveller
rarely, if ever, carries a stick; it suggests a com-
mon suburban loafer, back-yards, clothes-lines,
roosting fowls, watch-dogs, blind men, sewer-
pipes, and goats eating turnip-parings.
16. (For Artists). No traveller out-back carries
a horse-collar swag—it’s too hot; and the swag is
not carried by a strap passed round the chest,
but round one shoulder. The nose (tucker) bag
hangs over the other shoulder and balances the
load nicely—when there’s anything in the bag.
17. It’s not gloriqus and grand and free to be on
the track. Try it.
18. A shearing-shed is not what city people
picture it to be—if they imagine it at all; it is
perhaps the most degrading hell on the face of
this earth. Ask any better-class shearer.
19. An Australian lake is not a lake; it is
either a sheet of brackish water or a patch of dry
sand.
20. Least said about shanties the better.
21. The poetical bushman does not exist; the
majority of the men out-back now are from
the cities. The real native out-back bush-
man is narrow-minded, densely ignorant, invul-
nerably thick-headed. How could he be other-
wise?
22. The blackfellow is a fraud. A white man can
learn to throw the boomerang as well as an
aborigine-even better. A blackfellow is not to
be depended on with regard to direction, distance,
or weather. A blackfellow once offered to take
us to better water than that at which we were
camping. He said it was only half-a-mile. We
rolled up our swags and followed him and his gin
five miles through the scrub to a mud-hole with
a dead bullock in it. Also, he said that it would
rain that night; and it didn’t rain there for six
months. Moreover, he threw a boomerang at a
rabbit and lamed one of his dogs—of which he had
about 150.
23. &c. Half the bushmen are not called “ Bill,”
nor the other half “Jim.” We knew a shearer
whose name was Reginald ! Jim doesn’t tell
pathetic yarns in bad doggerel in a shearer’s hut
—if he did, the men would tap their foreheads and
wink.
# # #
In conclusion. We wish to Heaven that Aus-
tralian writers would leave off trying to make a
paradise out of the Out Back Hell; if only out of
consideration for the poor, hopeless, half-starved
wretches who carry swags through it and look in
vain for work—and ask in vain for tucker very
often. What’s the good of making a heaven of a
hell when by describing it as it really is, we might
do some good for the lost souls there ?
HENRY LAWSON.
To Non-Subscribers and Distant Readers
The Bulletin’s Xmas Number, to be published
December 16, at this paper’s usual price, 6d., will
shine like a star. It will not be a fat hunk of
paper stained with English stories, bought abroad
for ss. a page, shared with scores of other papers
throughout the world, and backed up with yards
of stolen matter and a garish foreign printed pic-
ture of a girl nursing a kitten.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be absolutely
original, both as regards its literary matter and its
pictures, which latter will be contributed by
the leading artists of Australia. The literary
contents will comprise contributions in prose and
verse from over 40 old and new Australian
writers, and there will not be one dull line from
first to last. The number will be the best and
biggest and most original sixpenny-worth of read-
ing published by any news-magazine in the world.
Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number will be mailed to any Australasian address
outside N.S. Wales for Bd. in stamps ; to any
English or foreign address for a remittance of 9d.
in stamps sent to the office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
w E STAY at 33 ruton’a,
HHIXOinOO
BOURKE. Every Comfort at RALPH’S
“ UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
WINTERS’ TATTER
SALE’S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms,
"W" arren.
Give FULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per HAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament,
'E you VISIT Brigbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
CrinVCdkdZNT G-IR-.A. NTT.
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “ PALACE FAMILY HOTEL ” is a
Waterside Paradise.
BRISBANE.
Moxley’s “ British Empire Hotel ” is
Central Cosy Lounge.
BRISBANE.
Mrs. F. L, Moxley’s "Metropolitan” is the
SPORTING TEAMS’ HOME.
SOUTHPORT, Q.
WEED HEADS COACHES
Start from Hanlon’s Pacific Motel,
T
KNOWING VISITORS
Prom Southern Queensland to Northern New
South Wales, travel from Southport to Tweed
Head® by Dodd’s Royal Mail Coaches, and
cormect by STEAM LAUNCH with Stuart’s
Reliable Coaches at Cudgen, for quickest route
to Brunswick and the Richmond.
BRUNSWICK.
MARSHALL’S OCEAN VIEW HOTEL
Is the charming Half-way House between
The RICHMOND and the TWEED.
CASINO.
PARKER’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL ranks as
“ Tub Australia ” of the North Coast.
CLOUTIER’S BALLINA COACHES will bo
BETTER PATRONISED than the Lismore to
the Tweed Railway,-
LISMORE.
CRUICKSHANK’S Commercial Hotel is the
Travellers’ Home on the Northern Rivers.
Gr
GRAFTON.
REAVES’ FAMILY HOTEL
Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
SOUTH GRAFTON,
you CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S MOTEL
By Much.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Mold at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN.
and others pronounce Walter J.
~ To I hiss's Commercial Hotel Comme ilfaut.
Miscellaneous.
iy
POWDER
K
She : “Don’t know Mr, BATHO’B!
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He; “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
T
ALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 8.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Wednesday, 29th
November, 1893,
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding corm
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.,
“ The Bulletin's ,f Missing Word Competition Coupon.—Ho* 8,
X X —==
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin*’ Office,
Sydney, in time to he received hy Wednesday, November 2i)th, 1893.
Maoriland Assembly is closing its last session, and the next Assembly will
be elected by both sexes on One-woman-one-vote basis, And now the question,
whether woman has a mind of her own in political matters, or is a mere...
nonentity in a spring bonnet, should at last have a fair chapce of arriving
at a settlement,
Name
A ddresa ■
Missing Word . ,
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received—no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitort).
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
“ Bulletin ” Series, 3NTo, X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TQ BE PUBLISHED.
-OF-
“A Golden Shanty”
By
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
“ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING-; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
Bulletin ” Series, KTo. 3,
£6
The Last of Six
99
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Bolf Boldreivood.
Opinions of fixe Press
The volume takes its name from one of the sketches. The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on « nnr
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in twif
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chanter and for iWa d!# a Y
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading. ”-S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. P ’ ° V 01080 who are fontl of
“No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc and the secret of tw, n t-
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed’by scarcelv mv«C l«
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under nni iee Bo hL nTer ;
his best work. That they will he widely read is certain.’’-Sydney Mail, July, 8, 1893 he haS glVen us some o£
They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation striking *
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as hannen f
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men ‘ The Last of Six’ * *.?? s
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr Favenc mS ir
thrilling interest. I nr* Hn.nnr. nr f.ho .nulrarPAO ’ onrrfroofo T?i rlor Hoco-nn/l yj 1,1~ _. j__ _ maKCS Ol
Jte tel,"?*? s Tom til
July 15, 1893.
Daily Telegraph,
“ ‘ The Last of Six;’ and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney : The Bulletin Newsnnner i tb«q . ,
graphic sketches by ra . rc Australian legendary lire' All the stories hero aregoo^
‘and wo can heartily endorse Iho recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldvewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forma VheThirU
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences. —Australian Star, July 15,1893. 1 " 11118 tiie 11 ‘ °f The
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d


Table Waters
A 8 SUPPLIED TO
The QUEEN.
OHWEPPE’S
SODA, SELTZER,
LEMONADE,
GINGER ALE, Ac.
Box 1034, Cr.P.O.
Telephone 978.
AMMATT * SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated deeds
—AND—
CDTLEET
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms ®
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED —
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS- -
Fleas, Flies, Bur/s, Mosyhitoes, Cockroaches ,
Etc. Harmless' to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer- R. T, BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Kidney’s).
Tins, 1/-; Boxes, 16. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1 2 and 1, i).
BROW’S IHJECTIOX.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PKOJiniY. without ADDITIONAL MEANS,
SOLD in BARIS r.Y 'i
JT. JET‘ 2H3 3Ft HE*. ZES
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
T
ALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE LAST OF SIX;”
Tales of fne Austral Tropes.
Price, Is.; per Post, is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
; •
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY CO.
(LIMITED,
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Maclilnery Mercliant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY or EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of the “ Pioneer Or© Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
f
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent, tor Australian
Colonies. .isS
ea
Your attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring. '
■ ■ ,
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coming season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight •
in a daily visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from th 6 continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
■ '
-■ ' ,: V ■ ' - * ' 1 nlv. X JV, '■•‘l
■ . .
Great is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES!—One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to .
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Sq-ui.£!LX*e,
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
.M, per !>ay. Walter Sidney (late of. Newcastle), “Prop.”
Terms—los,
-ZPjRIV.A.'X'ZH] HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN HOUSE, MilsoPoint, SYDNEY.
' JB
■
-. SKS
t. -
Resident Medical Officer-Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-E-G-S., Edp l ., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital ; Government Medical Officer Brisbane etc.
33 135 C 3E* 353 JES. 3 33 3W O 33 33 IKT XT 3Ft © X IKT <3- Si T A. IF* F.
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc. ' j
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYNAECOLOGICAL CASES.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
( AM DEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views and from it# excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients, n J
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED,
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
