

$
o
m
&
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
5
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
GRAND NATTONAT
CAULFIELD CUP,
MELBOURNE CUP,
MELBOURNE CUP,
> steeplechase.
OCTOBER . ..
NOVEMBER
NOVEMBER (FOR
15th JULY
Horses Only)
• T 5 EACH
20,0005 Each.
20.000 ® 5 Each.
50.000 % 5 Each.
20.000 @ 10 Each.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose—one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
“ GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
B< > x 171, G.P.0., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Mining and
107
Contractors’
Kent Street,
Sydney, *
■ 1 uu —
3?lant > Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Beauisites
EXPLOSIVES, BLILDERS* and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. *
Use
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
Sole Agents for HENBIf HEATH.
l*rioe 9s. 6<3U
■*
\
. TRADE MASK
gO&T %
sole Agents for HKMIY HEATH.
Price Os. 6d,.
A Splendid Hat for Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis
Opera, and Tratell up ; the Studio and Atelier.
they fall into two or three shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so called pocket hats, this will
really jfo in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted ns to have the Uxtuie of velvet.
Q-. EC. SSVEI-XVET & SOM.
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE ST HU ST, SYDNEY.
Look Out for
“THE LAST OF SIX;”
Tales of the Austral
per Post, Is. 3d.
2
O pj
o*L
fHt
rolls
fH*
I! I)
n
III)
ww
1=
MiulE
JC*3a.o OxforcJ Hotel, 3ECi.aa.gy Stareet, Sydney,
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor,
'—THE-*
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO,
(LIMITED),
Have pleasure in advising receipt of Invoice for
Fnglish i ish & Game
To arrive by the s.s. OPHIR.
The Shipment will be for SALE on the 20th inat,
I The List comprises ;
kLMON
SOLES
TURBOT
FRESH HERRINGS
HALIBUT
COD
S.M EI/TS
BLOATERS
KIPP KBS
EiNDON HADDOCKS
PHEASANTS
BLACK GAME
! PARTRIDGES.
The quantities being limited, we shall be pleased to
place your orders. F 10
As to prices, we are not yet enabled to fix them, but we
I SMS , t G afisUr j ince tha V ,he y will be in accordance
2 wn «ihpermit the native-born Austraii ,n.
™u e L 1 e .°y colonist, to compare the “Home"
I tsh and Game with (.hat of our colony.
Address, 25 Harbor Street, t
City Depot, 135 King Street, j
11. FATESOV,
Manager.
HIKER’S WHISHT. iLLSOPP'SHI.
JOH3V WALKER, 24 BOKTZ* STREET, SYD3XTEY
-
Sole Agent. In KTew South Wa.lee for Menett. Clayton txrxcl Shuttloworth
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
a
\J
WITH HANDLES,
.. Tn ORDINARY STEERAGE,
and governor steerage,
Also in Riding 1 .
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000. MADE AND SOLD.
MlW er f l)on ' )le ( -'.' ,l :iidf'r, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines
llonzontal hi urines of all classes; Underline Emmies • Boilers of all k d« g
Bmaalt ° f sii * s •' ’ KleviSSi ? Saw Bethes
‘ ll ■ team-povuii Chaff-euttnijr and Maebines; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Rightness in graught,, (Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible .Share Feints, which
can be replaced for (id. each.
Convertahle to ordinary ploughs if desired.
RIG LIGHTING
J - Ss
ENG INKS, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES.
O. Howara, 280^
Full Catalog vies of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Pitt Street;,
The Bulletin
Vol. 13.—N0. 69 9.j
[Saturday, July 8, 1893.


Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Toung Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from basbfulness, ':vant of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blond, &0., should
•end for Dr. M. RERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mbßCorv or other poisonous
MOOS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'Urn, Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich,
Invitei every Investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr.
PERRY
TU
&o
Legally Qualified
w Registered Ir
and
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Frbe.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and an
Glandular Enlargement!
His extensive experience In private and hospital
rraetice, lor a period of over twenty years, enables
im undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drhxkexxkss is treated of in Dr.
Perry s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
XkHMt enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients wilh the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Gbm'isb
Electric Brlt, from whioh the current cau be »ia-
TLNCTET FBLT, for M.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
xOB INFANTS AOT) INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
wo have examined." — Chas. H. Pibssb,
M.R.C.S., F. 0.5., &c. Wm. Johnstowb
Ph.D., F. 0.5., & c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD KILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
A BLESSING IN EVEfIV FAMILY.
tow AY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
-■ There Is «et ft t»mury in the etvlltsed world where
ieaunir virtues of fchea & grand medloines have not been
reeogmsed by thousands el sufferers. In all the ordinary
aliments of humanity their beneficent notion Is ntonoe
teoojrnisctL Fullest directions ere supplied for their use
In every disease. IF YOU SOFFIiU. Til if THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Ntsw Osnum-ST., Loudon. gw~ Pur-
Ohasors should look to the Label on the Boses and Pots
It the address is net 523 Oxford-street, London, thsy at e
•curious.
P O W D ER
4 J MsfSLjtt/*i~~z, •*
. v
'V'./J
m
She: “Don't know Mr. BATHO’S t"
He: “No 1"
She ; “ Know my cakes f "
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love,"
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. ... £5X10,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States ot America and
Canada, and can offer special fatuities lor dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
advt
TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
o
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Ttoe BfigHtou of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Hitting,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &&, BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
BOCras.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian I
;<BrancL'|
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
******* FOR AtrsnuuA-I*. J. MaoWUliam, 297 OEOBOB STREET. SYDNEY
advt
s
[s .Always fHB- Best
1 s
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX . ”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
—BY—
EBUEST
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf BolclrOWOOd.”
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under Arms”: —“In these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
iv. : nances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, xs. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
TRAM-CONDUCTOR: Here, ma’am, this is a shirt-button you have given me?"
OLD LADY (takes it back): “Dear me! So it is. I thought I was in church."


Medical.
D'JECKELL VINES
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine Si Therapeutics,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
(if etery accented case, of forfeit his fees) has now
Completed the revision of his popular work bn
‘Nervous i Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Peal-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Poul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough_, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Develonraent, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with lirsfc letter, and describe all symptoms. Thi i
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J, Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. vines
“ ELECTRIC GIRDLE ”
With eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that-1 feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations’; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you rtiay.have' tlie'benefit of my experi-
ence'and advice.
IPatiezita may DepencL
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—0.30 a.m. to 1 p.ra.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m,
Saturday— 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.in.
Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELLVINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney,
PLEASE hjUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.'
(S
SsdiiiLs-tJ
□
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Su-rgcon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe,
lie has devoted a Ufa- time to the study of
Hervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practioa
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
oontentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send- 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage -
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced i ucurablo.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
bo advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. Ho will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
lias successfully treated nearly -30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission -from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should,-be
addressed :
Or. Richards
a-l COLLEGE SXIIEET, SYDNEY.
sure to mention 'this ■ paper when - writing,
CONSULTATION LULL.
Hotel.
i<\
m
iit
=c=
sga.
El
“ £he (Sydney <§offee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Voirniii. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TAKIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 13s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 Is
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ponns, BATHS, k.c.
IUiStItIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking- Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
u sualty dis tu rbing.reside n ts
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE HOOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
juauies’ Tea Rooms.
JHE CRANE CENTRAL 'COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Kefreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in I he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, cr mbined
w ith a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
No Cure, IM" o 3F* st y.
MVu//// ////
■w
V
b elt
o°
rpms is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all staires,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return "the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
ijt'i
fFtiiq.
MW
mm
VI In
/■<?
SKIN TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Mold
Patches, . Brown Spots, Sftllowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skill soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world., Price, per
bottle, 12s. (Id., or, three bottles together, £ll2s. (id.
Valuable new Rook on “NATURAL BEAUTY,” sent
free, 4d.
Head Office—SO REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australasia—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & ; CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post, from all the colonics promptly
attended to. ,
T
ALES OF THE SYSTEM.
FRIGE-ONE SHILLINtV
E
jl N GLAND
IN
Shipping.
VIA AMERICA
3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and ,
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN.
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney'
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San, Fran
avaimuic iui muiitns, iiiiu oaiuuii
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland*
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.- ,
Combination Ticket. £62 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. Dd.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)i
at current rates.
Fop time cards, railway maps, and guide books,
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. AY. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSA6ERIES MARITIME^
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 0000 tons, under postal contract vkUU
Die French Government, cAjling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will he despat lud monthly as follows; •
Dates of Departure-.
Steamer Commander Sydney iMelbourne Adelaide-
Noon I 1 p.m. | 1 pan.
Arm. BEHIO ;Vimont .. July .27 July 31 Aug. .2
AUSTRALIEN G. Dder ~ Aug. 27 Aug. 31 Sept. 2
V.deIaCIOTAT Chevalier .. Sept. 27iOct. 1 Oct. 3.
111 ■ I
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £(jo to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lo> don and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed Dec of cost to
London by steamer.
For farther particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
-ROM ART’
v.o.
Whisky
Greenlees brothers
QIASCDW ItWDON AMO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
, FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO..
137 TO 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CKAIK .t AITKIN, Sole Agents.
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
‘ THE LOUNGE HAIR-DR, JESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Halrdresseis or
Dentists,works'easy, is a nice, -.light-locking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. ■ Used by
us in our own saloons. ‘ Send for price.' i Sote'Agents:— '
CRAIG etc AITKEN,
.NEW. SOUTH WALES BARBERS’. SUPPLY >
080 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
13?” NOW PUBLISH®©.-
‘‘T he L of Six.”


A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
lessor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
jimi*President of the Royal College qj Surgeons , England.')
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears* Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The im’ependi ♦ testimony of Scientific Experts
inflf the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps.
, ••.Wi.'.v
•fill Hi
W/iMim i
m
m
WlMl'lßm
m
m
u
w.
WiL
W
WSi
m
i. . / i
... j!
•>V.‘
fe
te
w
m
mm
1
Ml
11...
The Revenge of Macy O'Shea: A Story
of the Marquesas.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Tikena the Club-Footed guided me to an
open spot in the jungle-growth, and, sitting down
on the butt of a twisted toa, indicated by a sweep
of his tattooed arm the lower course of what had
once been the White Man’s dwelling.
“Like unto himself was this, his house,” hesaid,
puffing a dirty clay pipe, “square-built ,and
strong. And the walls were of great blocks made
of coral and lime and sand mixed together; and
around eaeh centre-post—posts that took the
strength of 50 men to lift one—was wound two
thousand fathoms of thin plaited cinnet, stained
red and black. Auel be was a great man here in
these rnolu (islands) although he fled from prison
in your land ; and when he stepped on the beach
the marks of the iron bands that had once been
round hit ankles were yet red to the sight. There
be none suoh as he in these days. But he is now
in Hell.”
This was the long-deferred funeral oration of
Maoy O’Shea, sometime member of the chain-gang
of Port Arthur, and subsequently runaway con-
vict, beachcomber, outter-otf of whaleships, and
Gentleman of Leisure in Eastern Polynesia. And
of his many known crimes the deed done in this
isolated spot was the darkest of all. Judge of it
yourself.
* * •
The arrowy shafts of sunrise had scarce
pierced the deep gloom of the silent forest ere the
village woke to life. Right beside the thatch-
oovered dwelling of Macy O’Shea, now a man of
might, there towers a stately tamanu tree ; and,
as the first faint murmur of women’s voices arises
from the native huts there is a responsive twitter-
ing and cooing in the thickly-leaved branches, and
further back in the forest the heavy booming note
of the red-crested pigeon sounds forth like the
beat of a muffled drum.
• * •
With slow, languid step, Sera, the wife of
Maey O’Shea, comes to the open door and looks
out upon the placid lagoon, now just rippling
beneath the first breath of the trade-wind, and
longs for courage to go out there—there to the
point of the reef—and spring over among the
sharks. The girl—she was hardly yet a woman—
shuddered a moment and passed her white hand
before her eyes, and then, with a sudden gust of
passion, the hand clenched, “ I would kill him —
kill him if there was but a ship here 10 get away.
I would s 11 myself over and over again to (he
worst whaler’s crew that ever sailed the Pacific
if it would bring me freedom from this cruel, cold-
blooded devil.”
A heavy tread on the matted floor of the inner
room and her face pales to the hue of death.
But Macy O’Shea is somewhat shy of his two
years’ wife this morning, and she hears the heavy
step recede as he walks over to his oil-shed. A
flock of gogo cast their shadow over the lagoon as
they fly westward, and the woman’s eyes follow
them —“Kill him, yes. lam afnid to die, but
not to kill. And 1 am a stranger here, and if I
ran a knife int his fat throat, these natives would
make me work iu he taro-fields, unless one wanted
me for him el .” Then the heavy step returns,
and shesloel faces round to the bloodshot eyes
and drink-distor ed face of the man she hates, and
raises one hand to her lips to hide a blue and
swollen bruise.
The man throws his short, square-set
figure on a rough native sofa, and, passing one
brawny hand meditatively over his stubbly chin,
says, in a voice like the snarl of a hungry wolf:
“Here, I say, Sera, slew round ; I want to talk to
you, my beauty.”
( The pah, 8“t face flushed and paled again,
** What is it, Maoy O’Shea?” >
“ Uo, ho, *Macy O Shea,’, is it? Well, just
this. Don’t be a fool. I was a bit put about last
else I wouldn’t have been sb quick with my
Cut your lip, 1 see. Well; jkju, must forget
» anyway, it’s the first time I ever touched you.
But y° u ought to know by now that I am not a
man to be trifled with ; no man, let alo'ne a woman,
is going to set a course for Macy O’.Shea to steer
by. And t to come to the point at mice, I want
you to understand Hmt Carl Ristow’s daughter is
coming here, I want her, and that’s all about it.”
, Ther wqppvU laughed sconifijliy—“Yes. 1 know,
That was why ”—she pointed to her lips. “ Ha ve
you no shame ? I know you have no pity. But
bsten. I swear to you by the Mother of Christ
that I will kill her—kill you if you do this.”
O'Shea’s cruel mouth twitched and Ids jaws set,
then he uttered a hoarse laugh—“ By God ! Has
it taken you two years to get jealous?”
A deadly hate gleamed in the dark, passionate
e y es —“ Jealous, Mother of God! Jealous of a
drunken, licentious wretch such as you. I hate
y°u> i' atb yon. If I had courage enough I would
poison myself to be free from yon.”
O'Shea’s eyes emitted a dull sparkle. “I wish
“ Yes - Btlt nofc for love of But because
of the white blood in me. I can’t—l won’t, be
degraded by you bringing another woman here ”
“ ■ For a, y«r did S to sTy“ fore'the
Hevil took his soul, we’ll see about that, my
beauty. I suppose because your father was a
d d garlic-eating, earringed Dago, and your
mother % come -by-chance Tahiti half-caste, you
think he was as good as me.” y
.. As good as B y0U) q bloody-handed dog of an
English convict. He was a man, and the only
wrong he ever did was to let me become wife to a
devil like you.”
i he cruel eyes were close to her s now, and the
rough, brawny hands gripped her wrists—“ You
s P lte . Portuguese quarter-bred ! Call me
® oonvict again and I’ll twist your neck like a
fowls. You sherdevil ! I d have made things
easy for you but I wont now. Do you hear?”
? nd the grip tightened. ‘ Histow’s girl will be
here to-morrow, and if you.don’t knuckle down to
her it II be a case of Vainos’ for you—yon can go
a,, 0 a husband among the natives,” and he
, ng her aside and went to the god that ran him
closest for his soul, next to women—his rum-
bottle.
* *
O’Shea kept his word, for two days later
Malia, the half-caste daughter of llistow, the
trader at Ahunui, stepped from out her father’s
whaleboat in front of O’Shea’s housed The trans-
action was a perfectly legitimate one, and Malia
di I not allow any inconvenient feeling of modesty
to interfere with such a lucrative arrangement
as this whereby her father became possessed of a
tun of oil and a bag of Chilian dollars, and she of
much finery. In those days missionaries had nob
made much headway, and gentlemen like Messrs,
Bestow and O'Shea took all the wind out of the
Gospel drum. And so Malia, dressed as a native
girl, with painted cheeks and bare bosom, walked
demurely up from the boat to the purchaser of her
sixteen-years’-old beauty, who, with arms folded
across his broad chest, stood in the middle of the
path that led from the beach to his door. And
within, with set teeth and a knife in the bosom of
her bldnsi? bodice, Bern panted with the lust of
Hate and Revenge.
• « •
The bulky foi’m of O’Shea darkened the
, „•(, ~ i i, , • T.-. . -.i ,
doorway. Sera, he called in English, with a
. • •’ • ■ a • . ■ ■
mocking, insulting inflexion m h.s vome, come
l.ere and We come n.y new wife ! bhe came
walking slow y over with a sun eon her bps and
holding out her left hand to Malia, said in the
native language, “ Welcome !”
“ Why,” said O'Shea with mocking jocularity,
that s a left-handed welcome, rseia.
“Ave,” said the girl with the White Mart’s
blood," “my right hand is for this ’’-and the knife
sank home into Malia’s yellow bosom. “ A cold
bosom for von to-night, Macy O’Shea,” she
laughed, as the value of a tun of oil and a bag of
Chilian dollars gasped out its life upon the matted
floor.
mm*
The native drum was beating. As the
. . , s . ...
blood-quickening boom reverberated through the
village, the natives came out froiri their huts and
gathered around the Houseof the O.d Men, where,
with bound hands and feet, Sera, the White Man s
wife, sat. with her back to one of the centre-posts
And opposite her sitting like a native on a mat of
kapau, was the burly figure of Ohhea, with the
demon of disappointed passion eating away Ins
reason and a mist of blood swimming before his
e ' es *
• • •
The people all hated her, especially the soft-
• j j c j r T i ...
voiced, slender-framed women. In that one thing
savages resemble Uhnstians—the deadly hatred
with which women hate those of their sex whom
they know to be better and more pure than them-
selves. So the matter was decided quickly. Mesi
—so they called O’Shea—should have justice. If
he thought death, let it be death for this woman
who had let out the blood of his new wife. Only
one man, Loloku the Boar Hunter, raised Ids voice
fer her, because Sera had cured him of a bad
wound when his leg had beep torn open by the
tusk of a wild boar. But the dull glare from the
eyes of O’Shea fell on him and lie said rjo more.
Then at a sign from the ofd men the people rose
from the mats and lwo unbound the cords of afa
from the girl and led her out into the square and
looked at O’Shea.
“Take h r to the boat ” he said.
Ristow’s lioat had been hau ed up, turned over,
and covered with the r< ugh mats called kapau to
keep off tlie heat of ilia sun. MLh staggering
feet, but undaunted hea t, the gii I Sera was led
down. Only once she tu • e I her hea I and looked
back. Perhaps Loloku won d try again. Then,
as they came to the ho t a young girl, at a sign
from O’Shea, took off lh ■ 1. o<e Wo ise. and they
p aced her, face downwar Is, across the bilge of the
boat, and two pair of small, eager, brown hands
each seized one of hers and dragged the white,
rounded arms well over the keel of the boat,
rvsn.Q., „„ii,.j ■ i _ j •
OShea walked round to that side drawing
through his hands the heavy, and serrated
tail of the f(Ci —t! egigantic tin ug-ray of Oceana,
He would have liked to wi Id it himself, but then
he would have missed part of his revenge—he
could not have seen her face. So ho gave it to a
native, add watched, with the am eof a fiend, the
white back turn black and then in o bloody red as
it was cut to pieces wilh the tail of the/a’f.
The sight of the inanimate thing that had
given no sign of its agony beyond the shudderings
and twitchings of torn and mutilated flesh was
perhaps disappointing to the tiger who stood and
watched the dark slieam that flowed down on
both sides of the boat. Lolnku touched his arm—
“ Mesi, stay your ami. She is dead else.”
“ Alt,” said O'Shea. “ that would lie a pity, for
with one hand shall she live to plant taro."
And, hatchet in hand, he walked m between
the two brown women who held le t- hands. They
moved aside and let go. Then OS iea swung his
arm and the blade of the hatchet struck into the
planking and the right hand of Sera fell on the
sand.
A man put his arms around her, and lifted her
off the I mat. lie placed his hand on the blood-
stained bosom and looked at Macy O'Shea.
“A matef' he said.
LOUTS BECER.
Editor Bulletin, —The name of Matthew
Davies, now so prominently before the Melbourne
public, brings to my recollection an equally pro-
minent namesake in Irish history. It was during
the rebellion of 1798 that one Matthew Davies held
a commission as captain in a corps of yeomanry
cavalry, noted for their licentiousness and
brutality ; for, wherever Matthew and his crew
appeared, pitchoaps and hanging was the order of
the <lay. When a boy, some sixty years ago, in
the County of Wicklow I often heard the
following lines sung to a very old Irish air:—
When the Devil saw him coming,
He sang a pb asanl song,
Saying, “ you’re welcome, Matthew Davies,
Oil, what kept you so long?
Where is your comrade, Nixon ?
Or why didn’t he come, too?
For I have a warm corner
For him as well as you.”
—R.B., North Melbourne.
Fresh Goldfields
Would be the means of closing one of the avenues
to the feeling of insecurity now universally pre-
valent, for they would carry away the surplus
unemployed, and thus prove the magnet to attract
from Sydney the direct cause of its stagnation.
The presence with us of so many men, condemned
to ei.forced idleness, is a condition that affects the
whole colony—whether the Village Settlement
Bill will prove a panacea for the evil i* question-
able. No doubt such a discovery will soon be
made known, for the colony is pregnant with rich
mineral veins. Yet a change from the shelter of
the metropolis to the stern and rough realities of
a camp existence will entail consequences of a
serious, if not fatal character, unless provision be
made for such an alteration of circumstances. On
this point we have read a letter from Mr. Hugh
Driver, an old digger residing in the Fort Darwin
district, and addr.s'fd to Marshall Bros., the pro-
prietors of “ Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,” in which
he says :
“Forward me by early steamer two dozen bottles of
your “ Tonic Nervine,” it is the best preparation (and I
have tried many) t<> fortify my constitution against the
severe driin imposed by a residence in this climate—its
action is to t hrow up a rampart against the deadly arrows
of this insidious almospheVe."
All who wish to preserve health and aceumulate
wealth, should lay in a stock of this invaluable
tonic. It is also an absolute safeguard against
malarial and other fevers from which the members
of the recent expeditions to New Guinea and
other tropical countries have so severely suffered.


C ASGARA-H AWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S GUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
Full directions.
All Chemists.
CAPSULES
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsules.
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS"
Velveteen
Klch and rare
new colours for
present wear.
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK.
m
The >Hnid Renowned
“ T OUIS” VELVETEEN bus this in Its favour,
8 k besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
■of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “Louis” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S', and in no_ other way,
and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject all substitutes.
Weethm’s
jpg-
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M. BEETHAM &SON. Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
advt
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 Jd. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & CO.,
18, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.—Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney,
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
i nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
O’Connell St, N. Adelaide. S. Australia
11. G. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
98,
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
(the celebrated oh.ldren’s sweet
r. /(C7X(y'istfS.» jmji
Lancet.
.
St, John’s Woi-ks, London, W.C,
Y
PUREST.
SAFEST.
BEST.
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION. PUREST MATERIALS.
«An idnal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”— Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
"ic
C^AA,,
i m
'* ||j
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITFS,
PIITOKTjY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
t
&
jn
JLONDEAU &C: F
oo h o e . London. Paris&NewYork
°k fe ; .' ... o A
For Toilet,Nursery&?
A SANITARY, SORUBTjE ROSE-
BUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes— in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD.
advt
k
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus •
<£Z-
Asti for Lea & Petoitns’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse f Blackwell, London, §c.. sc.;,
and bp Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents: Messes. VTRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively tire Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS “ HARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
AFTER USE
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskevs and Moustaohios ithas never been equalled, Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
OOOOOO
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic nr other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s, 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Supply and Demand.
Dear Bulletin,— The daily papers never spare
an opportunity of emphasising, with all the
heaviness of their gorged capacities, that cold,
cruel, pernicious Law of Supply and Demand, as
an all-sufficient explanation of the maintenance of
starvation wages for the masses. They accord it
the veneration and blind enthusiasm of fetish
worship. The press asserts that this Law is
immutable and irresistible; and that, therefore, it
is absurd to stipulate in a contract that labour is
to be paid a stated rate. The press can only see
in a proposed humane and perfectly feasible pro-
vision an attack upon its idolatry. Under the
fetish Law of Supply and Demand it is sought to
justify paying whatever miserable wage a man can
be made to accept, no matter what degradation is
the result. If this Law compels a man to take
wages which make it impossible for him to live
decently, self-respectingly, it must stand con-
demned by all humanitarians ; it cannot be a good
and righteous Law, and should not be recognised.
It is argued that the law applies to Labour
as to any other commodity, but the analogy
cannot be sustained. The cases differ widely.
Every other commodity, whether superabundant
or scarce, is sold for a profit. Depression reduces
profits, but it does not abolish them. But Labour
is always sold at cost price, and often at less, and
then it becomes inefficient. The cost price of good
labour is that which enables it to be effectually
maintained, that which is sufficient to provide
for all rational wants; and this is never exceeded,
but too often unattained.
* # #
It is nothing.to the Idolaters of Profit that
Labour is not something inanimate; that it is flesh
and blood, hopes and passions, yearnings and
ambitions—humanity, with an equal right to all
the joys and comforts of life with the richest.
The natural reward of labour is access to every-
thing necessary for the healthy support of mind
and body. No man’s services to society are
so mean that he should be deprived of a single
article essential to comfortable existence; and
no man’s services are so valuable that he
should be paid, at others’ expense, ten or twenty
times the amount that would suffice to keep him
in rational enjoyment of life. This is a verity,
though it were to demolish the so-called Law of
Supply and Demand.
* • •
The Law of Supply and Demand ! Who is the
law giver ? Is it one of the eternal edicts of God
and Nature? Does it emanate from the spirit of
justice and love? Even the daily press dare not
affirm such a social blasphemy. This figment in
economics is nothing but a cast-iron rule forged in
the furnace of Man’s Greed ; a shibboleth of the
competitive system. Sharp, calculating, exact
business-men, capitalists, employers, all those
generally who don’t know what want and hunger
are, gloat over the sounding catch-phrase. It
tickles them ; they smack t heir lips with relish, as
they glibly roll out the words. To them, and to
them alone, it seems a justification for their
position and a satisfactory explanation of social
troubles, exonerating them from all blame. To
the workers it is an all devouring dragon of deso-
lation. The Law of Supply and Demand is an
enactment of the Parliament of Wealth, drafted
solely for the parasites of wealth. The propertied
classes are responsible for it. It enacts all mono-
polies—of capital, land, and means of production.
The rich spawned it, and they administer
it—not against themselves, blit against the
wretched, the depraved, the hungry, against the
“ men who live in little houses.” It is relentless,
arbitrary, and in every way a Law of triumphant
evil. Therefore, it should be rebelled against and
repealed ; and the only way to accomplish this is
to so alter existing social arrangements as to give
every willing worker an equal opportunity of
living in comfort and independence. The press-
owning syndicates sometimes pretend sympathy
for the workers, but they never have an honest
and unreserved word to say in support of the
cause of the people; they never care a straw about
their condition, about improving their homes,
health, morals. How should they? Thecapitalistic,
shopkeeping, interest-taxing, profit-mongering
classes rule it completely. Its God is Dividend ;
its Christ is Advertisement.—W.
The Duke of Sutherland accidentally shot
Capt. Blair, the Duchess’s first husband. But
what was the “family scandal ’’ for destroying
documentary evidence of which Her Grace was
sent to gaol ?
Dear Bulletin, —You talk of “unem-
ployed ” in the cities. I’m going west for cattle,
and have seen more multitudes—hard-up, stone-
broke “ travellers than I thought were in
Queensland. The Cunnamulla police are now
hunting the men from camp to camp and im-
pounding horses most high-handedly. The sheep-
stations are overstocked— not with sheep. There
are literally mobs of men waiting for shearing.
Vet a decent sort of stockman— a fellow who can
ride a bit and knows something about cattle, can
generally pick up a job. Two swagmen were com-
mitted at Cunnamulla, the other day, for sheep-
stealing. A station-manager refused to sell them
meat; so they killed a sheep tor tucker. — Over-
lander, Nebine River (Q.)
Amateur literary man calls at big Sydney
newspaper-office, with a roll of MS. under his
arm. “An original novel, eh?” says the pro-
prietor. “Take it away. We get these things
from England at waste-paper prices,” During
the bank crisis, Sydney’s “leading’’paper printed
an article containing the words: “Our own
resources are abundant; we are able to produce
much of what we require, and it is our duty, and
should be our pride, to develope our internal
powers, instead of casting our eyes abroad.” The
amateur cut this passage out, pasted it on a slip
>f paper, wrote underneath, “ Does this apply to
serial literature?” and posted the document to
that newspaper proprietor.
The mistake made by the Dunedin Work-
man was in supposing that the girls of the present
“ Gaiety ” Company had ever been prominently
connected with the London Gaiety Theatre. But
if the indignant company went raging round
with riding Whips in defence of the “honour”
of the notables of the real Gaiety chorus
they were carrying theatrical impudence a
little too far. It is fairly open to any
decent journal to state that the moral char-
acter of the Gaiety Theatre is d- d bad.
Ml the Lonnens in creation couldn’t bluff away
that historical fact, and if the people he led to
oattle (with fearful odds in their favour) choose to
travel under the banner of a company that has
achieved an “ unenviable notoriety ” they can’t
have much to complain of, anyway. These re-
marks apply only in a general way, and have no
particular reference to anything printed by the
Dunedin Workman, which we haven’t read. If
the Workman breathed a suspicion against the
virtue or sobriety of any single member of
Lonnen’s female army it was —well, incautious.
Meanwhile The Bulletin would like to know
whether any Jew bookmakers fought on the side
of professional chastity in this delectable affair.


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Eider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, w ith SteeF (or-sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, »/-each .< AS SHOWN, 13/-each.
gy" POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
Tno. Baker, CUTLEB, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
advt
advt
15 the
machine
vfcWeßl©'
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
\VSVAE
*9
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarkefc), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEWTON,& LAMB.
High-Class Bedroom Furniture at Prices to Meet the Times.
\ v
L-U
8
urn
>-■ -
«M3se>
Bedroom Suites in Polished Pine ••• £6 6s. £B, £9, £lO, £l2, £l4, &c-
Bedroom Suites in Ash ••• ••• £lB, £2l, £23 to £3O & upwards'
Bedroom Suites in Walnut £2O, £23, £2B, £32, &c-. &Oi
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.,
Cleaverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHBTM, GOTTHELF & CO. SYDNEY.
DU. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C S.
THE
* Plum’
W""
THE
TH'S brand of Razor is something superior to anything 1 that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s,
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Rrejistcrcd and sent Post Fire to anil of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra,
Price
Solo
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
“TALKS or tub CONVICT SYSTEM.”
A PROPHECY.
A.
.'-V i
1 VOX?pf BE DISTRESSED. Repression Will sooh give place to prosperity by thoughtful economy
H r apd gpod laws; The lands of the colony should be its source of wealth, but this can only be
fdhtoticablo by a profitable market being provided for the products of the land, dim railway rates
dipuld be adapted, somewhat upon the Zone system, to the Wants of the inland districts. By carry ng
rates to the sea-board* so that the tillers of the soil may have a profitable market provided (America
owes her great prosperity mainly to this), emigration Would then flow into the country, population
increase* and a natural boom the result;
LEVER BROTHERS, LTD.,
Are doing their best to encourage Trade in the Colohy, having, since January,
Bought over 2000 TONS Of TALLOW- Sydney.
‘ Value, £50,000.
this benefits BUTCHERS, SQUATTERS, WHARF LABOURERS, CARTERS, etc.
This Tallow goes to make the far-famed
Soap,
WHICH IS USED IN
Hor AdCa,Jesty "fc3a.es Queen’s LaunC ry,
And by aifSvho believe that THE BEST IN QUALITY IS THE CHEAPEST BY RESULT;
S“Cizalig'lb.t
Lever Brothers, Limited, Sydney^
?H
B. MOONTCASTLE & §<?H
OlRECT IMPOfttEfiiS & MAN0FACT0RER3
of Hat<5 & £AP5
I
r;- •
m
1
FDR (OQKSEY& [05 [ELEBRATEO lONOON j|
When ordering number or hat will be sufficient |
SAYWELL & CO.
depot
FQf?
MARVEL
S Y
IT FS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
/ \* •
, ALWAYS IN STOCK*;
SIS e s*, mob Engines, Rollers, Gras - 3Sugin.es,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and : MINING' MACHINERY.
Write tis with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
“THE
Price
LAST of six.”
■ One hilling*.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
These Hotels contain aver 500 A par.
wen is and are highly recommended t>
Australians. The Theatres, Kxk
Htions, Museums, Parks, Colon:,’.
Institute, &Ac., are easy 0/ access.
A merican • Elevator.
Modern ' Sanitary , Im-
provements. •; Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments tor Families.
Gloucester Road, London, S-W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.


The Bulletin
Vol. 15~K0.699.
SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1893.
Price, 6d.
EXPLANATIONS
A, A foot anp His . WHERE the
CiOES in. C, ialhere THE INTEREST CORIES OUT.
3), Reconstruction pur|P- E, suction-pipe
LEAO/Nq DOWN INTO RESERVOIR, G, . RESERVOIR., OR
Receptacle For deposits, m Waste- Pipe leading
P, INTO Bank-Safe I, SATE,(B«)Kpy qh/iuj a^l^lT
X sovereigns.-/ERy filth"
l( INTEREST-TAP THE
TIGHTER IT IS TURN 80, THE
Better the Puitp Sucifs,
,y L, The fat p)an of Cop?-
p]£RCf'.
M, falxe of Waste-Ti pe whici
CI 06 £<s AUTO n ATLCa l L*y Wr. £.N
c>' AT £ I S FUi- L .
O^ON
A LEGALISED STEALING MACHINE: OR THE RECONSTRUCTION SCHEME BEHIND A NEW SCREEN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for ths Australians/'
PROPRIETORS :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER 00.; Li MIT I.ri.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney,' New South-Walks.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... 0 126
Quarterly... ... 066
NOTICE.
by sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
•shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
m the hands of our carriers, tviih whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
' Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO icords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unavailable , MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. lo distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tire Bulletin can be obtained, in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C. ,
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: - It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on later provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.'
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
♦
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Lannces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office. . , \
SATURDAY, JULY 8, 1893.
The Supineness of the Law.
A few days ago, in open daylight, and close to
the very centre of Sydney, a citizen appears to
have been attacked and killed by one or two
dozen ruffians belonging to those gangs of
bi’igands who habitually haunt the New South
Wales capital. This incident is by no means
an isolated one. A short time previously
another, and somewhat similar crime, was
committed in the principal thoroughfare of
the metropolis, and outrages, which only by
accident fail to result in death, are of con-
stant occurrence. Sydney is as much
brigand-infested as were Calabria and Sicily
in their worst days. Moreover, the law,
which is impotent to prevent crime, is almost
equally impotent to punish it ; through an
elaborate system of terrorism it is often
impossible to obtain evidence, and the
witness who testifies against the “push”
thereafter carries Ids life in his hand. There
is no serious effort —there is hardly even any
pretence of an effort—to abolish this un-
speakable state of things, and the only sign
of activity is a hysterical cry for the intro-
duction of that fine old Botany-Bay institu-
tion, the lash winch cry goes up to
heaven for a day or two after eacli
outrage, and is then forgotten. The “corn-
stalk’’ is essentially a creature of temporary
hysterics, and just now he is in full blast.
There is a mad rush of correspondence to
the daily press, and almost every correspon-
dent has but one idea. The lash is the be-
ginning, middle and end of the public in-
spiration—except when, now and then, some-
one rises to suggest that it and a more copious
hanging system would go well together.
# * #
The Bulletin has also received its share
of this kind of correspondence. The fol-
lowing letter, written apparently in blood, is
a fair sample of the lot;
For the present deplorable and disgraceful crime of the
“push,” The Bulletin is largely icsponsible through its
maudlin sympathy with criminals and its opposition to
the lash and capital punishment. Public opinion in
Sydney considers hanging too good for the Miller’s Point
brutes. What has The Bulletin to say now? The inevi-
talile result of antipathy (o the unmerciful use of the lash
on the hacks of tlio.se who show no mercy 1 Is it not
just? It is m mitigated rot to talk of “ further debasing "
those already hardened criminals; Would The Bulletin
advocate that Deeming should not have been hanged but
imprisoned for life (or until the cunning wretch escaped)
and the taxpayer mulcted id the cost of his keep? No;
by all means let society rid itself of those who are only
human vermin. The “pushes” are like wolves or
dingoes—cowards singly; game only when limiting in
packs. Treat them like dingoes.—Yours, &c., Anti-
tlUMKro.
# « ♦
To the above Tub Bulletin replies
that it is about the only paper in all
Australia which is nob mure or less re-
sponsible for the existing state of things.
Other papers without number have howled
for the lash and the gallows to bo requisi-
tioned after some victim has been killed or
maimed, as if their use would bring him
back to life 'or repair his shattered carcase.
The Bulletin, on the other hand, has con-
sistently urged the abolition of the class by
which such outrages are perpetrated. The
evil lies, not in the want of law, for of law
there is abundance, but in the unspeakable
weakness of its administration. The con-
stant lament that imprisonment, hard labour,
solitary confinement, low diet, plank beds,
chains and darkness have failed to arrest
crimes of violence is a lie which has been
repealed so, often, that almqst everybody
accepts it without inquiry. They have never
even been tried. They exist on the statute-
book, and are vigorously and systematically
enforced on the thief who breaks into a shop
at midnight and removes a pair of boots, but
for the brute who, with 25 others, stops
some casual stranger and fells him with a
sling-shot they are a dead letter. If, by
chance, the victim is killed, then his assailant
most likely gets hanged or gaoled for life
unless his friends can terrorise the witnesses
for the prosecution with the almost inevi-
table prospect that, should they give evi-
dence, they will, sooner or later, be treated;
likewise ; if he is not killed; —and the
assailant always assumes he will not be—the
latter, if he can be, convicted, is generally
fined 40s. There, is nothing between these,
alternatives ; it is either the gallows or 40s. ;
and the miserably knock-kneed magistrates
who never will, under any circumstances,
enforce the present law of imprisonment
would no more enforce the proposed law of
the lash.
'# * *
The beginning of the trouble lies, as The
Bulletin has repeatedly pointed out, in the
numerical feebleness of the police force. The
force in London is notoriously too weak for
its work, and that of Sydney, in proportion
to population, is 50 per cent, weaker. More-
over, the police have to perform such a
variety of duties, besides the duty of keeping
the public peace, that the actual number
constantly available for street duty is pro-
bably only one-third of the average in the
British capital. Therefore, the officer who
interferes with the “ push,” does so against
immense odds and at the imminent risk of
his life. If the police were increased, as
they ought to be, four or six-fold in the dis-
turbed localities, then it would bb possible to
enforce the law—at present a dead letter^—
against'the assemblage of rowdy crowds at
street corners and down unsavoury by-ways,
and the equally neglected statute against
the carrying of weapons could be rigidly
employed against the loaded stick and the
sling-shot, and thus the larrikin would be
deprived of the very first essentials of his
existence—the support of numbers, a con-
venient meeting place, the corner of some
mangy public-house against which to lean
while waiting for his prey, and the imple-
ments wherewith to “stoush” him when
found. At present the difficulties in the
way of even an attempt at suppression are
threefold. It is difficult to arrest the brutal-
assault rowdy, except in comparatively
rare cases, for constables are few and far
between, alone, and practically unarmed.
It is difficult to convict him when he is
arrested because, from this very weak-
ness of the force, every witness knows
that he can, and almost certainly will, be
assaulted and possibly murdered at some
later cbffe, most likely with impunity. And
as the policeman who obtains a conviction is
thereafter a marked man, doing duty alone
by day and night in districts where a hun-
dred cowardly ruffians are thirsting for his
blood, lie has every possible reason to let
things take their course. When the offender
can so seldom be secured and convicted, it
makes very little difference whether the
penalty for his crime is flogging or
execution, or a process of boiling in oil,
or any other horror. Only a few weeks
ago certain members of a Sydney “push,”
who had murdered a sailor, proved uh-
findable simply because certain witnesses
dared not give evidence, knowing the
inability of the police to protect them after-
wards. If these individuals had.been found
they would have been hanged, but the hang-
ing statutes made them none the more
discoverable. If a flogging statute would
have made them discoverable, then it pos-
sesses a virtue which passes human compre-
hension.
• « *
Moreover, unless the introduction of the
lash would entirely transform the local
magistrates, the situation would be prac-
tically unchanged. Unless a hard and
fast law decrees that every person convicted
of a technical assault is to be flogged,equally,
so that the person who elbows another
roughly in a crowd, or Lays a hand on his
shoulder, is liable to get the same punish-
ment as the one who jumps with hob nailed
boots upon his chest, the magistrate must be
allowed to sort things out according to hi B
own discretion. And as his discretion will—
unless he is flogged—remain in the same
state as at present, and his hopeless con-
tempt for human safety, as compared with
that of property, will he unaltered, he will
Continue to tine the larrikin who has jest
missed killing his victim in the same old £2.
The very day after the Miller’s Point
affair* when the very air was filled with a
yearning for blood and severity and for the
extinction of larrikinism, root and branch, a
case of ruffianly assault was heard at a Syd-
ney police-court, and the magistrate, after
dilating on the enormity of the crime and
the need for extreme measures, finished up
with the invariable 40s. fine. Yet none of
the papers which were shrieking for the lash
and the gallows even mentioned the ludi-
crous weakness of the proceeding,
• • »
No punishment, however horrible, will
deter, unless it is at least reasonably certain.
If, by a lavish increase of the police force,
and the appointment of new magistrates in
place of the existing race of hopeless in-
capables, and by a cast-iron system of prison
discipline instead of the present inane policy,
a long term of the gaol and the plank bed
and the solitary cell, with hard labour and
low diet thrown in, can be made the pertain
consequence of every larrikin outrage, larri-
kinism. will die out. But the mere addition
of the “ cat ” to the present utterly impotent
system, will produce no appreciable result.
Just as at present, half, or more than half, the
offenders will escape entirely through the
weakness of the police ; many of those
arrested will also escape because, owing to
that same weakness, witnesses dare not
testify against them ; 95 per cent, of the
balance will be visited by the usual fine of a
few shillings ; and about one in a thousand,
or in ten thousand, will by chance pome to,
the triangles, unless he gets, off on appeal.
At present the larrikin risks the gallows, if
he should use his sling-shot or half-brick too,
freely, and is not deterred in the slightest,
simply because the chance is so remote that
if is never taken into account. And the
chances of the lash, as its advocates propose
if should, be applied, would be about equally
remote, and therefore equally ineffectual.
The Bulletin’s hysterical correspondent
demands if it would have spared Deeming
the death penalty. Assuredly it would.
Deeming is officially understood, to he in
Heaven—at least the State did, its utmost,
by providing parsons and religious ministra-
tions, to send him there ; and if The Bulle-.
tin had, had its way, he would instead be
dragging out his miserable, hopeless existence
in a living death upon earth. The Bulletin
is about the only paper in Australia which had
no “ maudlin sympathy ” in the matter, and
which did not do its utmost to help that
brutal lunatic into Paradise, 1 It, is also about
the only paper which has so little sympathy
with crime that it urges the, total abolition
of the larrikin, instead of the flaying by
chance of an occasional stray specimen with-
out influence, while the remainder ai’e left
to rage as furiously as ever. It demands,
and always has' demanded, that the shuns
Wherein the larrikin has his being should be
destroyed, that ! the gambling-dens and
“ tote” shops and similar resorts which he
frequents should be abolished, that the law
should be made strong enough to enforce
the neglected 1 statutes against gatherings at
street corners, 1 and the carrying of weapons,
and the use of obscene language ; and that
the magistrates who will not enforce these
statutes should be discharged from the
public service, so that their “maudlin sym-
pathy with crime ” will trouble the land no
more. There is a Draconian law at present
in existence against almost everything
which the larrikin says, or does, or' is,
and it only requires to be put in force to
make his existence impossible. He can be
“ moved on ” till he either dies of exhaustion
or is moved over the outer rim of the globe
into space, and The Bulletin demands' and
keeps demanding, that he should be so
moved till he is extinct. But the daily
newspaper custom of uttering at long inter-
vals one discordant howl for blood and tor-
ture, and then allowing the whole subject to
drop into oblivion, is of no avail. No evil
can be remedied by brief occasional spells of
raving and “maudlin” hysterics any more
than a fallen city can be re-built by the archi-
tect having an epileptic fit among the ruins.'
God and Gammon.
The combined Sydney churches have just gone
through a hideously blasphemous farce before'
which the most Christianity-searing vagaries of
atheist Svmks might appear soothingly ortho-
dox. They have observed a day of humiliation
and prayer in the local Centenary Hall because
Providence has not thought fit to keep up to
boom-values those portions of this earth grabbed
by the Elect; because it has permitted Satan
to inspire persons who have lent money to the
banks to want it back in full up to date ;
because, in spite of the legalised laying of
thievish hands by shareholding church-props
and society pillars on the earnings of number-
less humbler vessels, the said props and pillars
do not yet feel sure of “ standing on velvet;
and because of about 35 other such things.
Boccaccio, or somebody, tells of a 14th-century
Roman Catholic who long sought to convert a
Jew to the True Faith. Alter a while the
Hebrew visited Rome, observed the conduct of
some of the high ecclesiastics, and promptly re-
canted. Asked for reasons, be said, in effect:
“ What I saw makes me believe that if there is
a God he must be a Catholic or He would have
stricken some of His priests dead.” In view of
the thrilling and ghastly hypocrisy of last week,
it is conceivable that the churches partaking in
it may gain adherents on the same lines,
• » «
Primate Smith, as chairman of the brazen
horror, lifted up his voice in exaltation of the
Abstract Virtues. The general tenor of it all,
wherever that tenor could peer out through a
rift of 'comprehensibility in the thick haze of
meaningless church dialect, was that the present
financial depression is a “ chastening ” from the
hand of the Supreme Ruler. As a matter of
fact, it is from the hand that laid the big ruler
across labour-leader Sleaxh’s head—that of the
supreme bank manager. It is not a visitation
from the Creator upon men, but a visitation of
some men upon others. The “ visitation ” busi-
ness is played out in the sight of anyone who
has to pay 12 per cent, on mortgage, so far as
the Almighty is concerned. Also, it is pretty
diaphanous to the tradesman whose current
account has been fingered so that the wind may
be tempered to the shorn shareholder who has
been mortifying his flesh for many years on 20
per cent, dividends. The Primate may for ever
“let up” on that sort of thing. He can give
Abstract Virtues a well-earned rest, and devote
himself to the applied kind. That of Thrift, so
luminous in the eyes of the Adipose Person, he
already quite understands—unless all cabmen
are liars,
* * #
The Rev. J, Fordyce, on behalf of Presby-
terianism, once or twice came very near giving
the whole business away. He almost endorsed
the view that human ignorance of plainly de-
fined natural laws had more to do with the
clumsily - tinkered bank smashes than Divine
interference. That was too solid a position to.
hold long, so he wandered off into, tropical
Paraguayan fields of rich ecclesiastical platitude-
to the great comfort and improvement of the
female humiliators. “ There was no, other road
to wealth but the road of honest, hard labour,,
abstinence, industry, all kinds of honorable
effort, and by any other road, even if they won,,
God, would blow upon it, and it would be a
curse,and not a blessing on, the land.” What
dogs sn,ch talk as this mean ? Every great for-
tune. in the world, and nearly every reasonable
competence, represents the advantage one indi-
vidual has possessed over others, not their pay-
ment to. him for anything done. The great
worldly aim of the chief pew-hohlers in every
church,is to secure means of obtaining wealth not
within the reach of most of their fellows. Bank-
shareholders Imve been playing with loaded
dice for the earnings of “ hard, honest labour,
abstinence,” and the rest of it, and haye been,
winning.' They have, for the time, being,
cleaned out the simple-minded hob-nailers who
pfayed against them. The game flags, and they
find their gambling kit will noc fetch cost-price.
Thp business is “blown upon,” for the timp
being, but it was a cold day for;. Thrift and In-
dustry long before this happened.
* * #
Hev. J, E. Moulton, as President pf the
Wesleyan Conference, “believed that, great as
t,lie trouble was, it was God’s work. Strikes
might have had something to do with it. It
was a matter of humiliation to himself to see
that, amid a great calamity like this, these mis-
guided men should be thinking of initiating
another strike. And yet they were—and he
rejoiced to feel it—their fellow-citizens,” Here
is an approachable shepherd. “Souls, dear
leddies—souls,” said the Reverend Mr. Meektn,
as the sullen convict gang passed by. Wharf-
labourers may be softened by Mr. Moulton’s
confession of brotherhood into humping a few
more bags of potatoes so that dividends may
hot fall. Perhaps the slave of the stokehole
may now stew himself to death more quickly
and cheerfully, and bake in the ovens of
Mammon with a contrite heart'. These people
may abandon their wallowing in “drunken-
ness, impurity 1 and ' Sabbath desecration, ,v
“and live lives better, higher, nobler ” than
heretofore now that they have been admitted'
to full felloiV-citizeuship with Mr. Moulton.
He delicately hinted that possibly the leaders
and moulders of public opinion hack not done
theft whole duty. Tlie’y all hinted it delicately,
and they dll avoided indicating wliat that duty'
was, beyond pointing hit fingers of direction to
the moral horizon where the Abstract Virtues
ate.- :,i - ” 1
• • •
So far, the Centenary Hall voices. In the
evening the Anglican Dean Cowper improved
the occasion at St. Andrew’s Cathedral “ to a'
fairly large congregation.” A liberal out-
pouring of jerky inconsequentialities of a
comminatory tendency which the press calls'
a “severe castigation”' (with its tongue,’
in its cheek, for reporters, though mere
hirelings, are hot utter idiots) was his contri-
bution on behalf of dejected Mammon-worship,
His cue Was to inflict upon the Abstract, Vices
the sort of flagellation ‘ they can always'stand,
A few definite shortcomings were absolutely
lifted off theft feet by the Dean’s whipthong.
The sons of Belial who go about in tram§ and)
trains oh the Sabbath and the Lord’s Day
tennis-playel’s “ got it.” Sunday trams and’,
fresh-air excursions were causing the Almighty
to visit'His anger on the banks and tread real
estate in the winepress. The loye of wealth'
received one or two from the Dean, but came
up again smiling, as it always will. There is
nothing the matter with the love of wealth. So
long as people can only indulge tjiis love
honestly, it is the great natural stimulant tp,
progress and civilisation. If there were no,
other way of obtaining wealth but by work,
tlie richest man would be the greatest public
benefactor. There are,, however,'a,lot. of other,
ways, not one of which was definitely denounced.
It was, you see, because of the failure of some
of these that the churches came together and
beat their breasts and wailed.
» • •
“We have mortgaged our lands and vine-
yards and houses. . . . We have borrowed
money for the King’s Tribute, and that upon
our lands and vineyards. Yet now our flesh is
as the flesh of our brethren, our children as
their children ; and, 10, we bring into bondage
our sons and our daughters to be servants, and
some of our daughters are brought into bondage
already, neither is it in our power l« redeem
them : for other men have our lands and vine-
yards.” This from Jeremiah explains the
situation, and clears the Almighty of a respon-


sibility which foolish or false priests would cast
upon Him. And this from Matthew may be
worth bringing under the notice of the Council
of Churches : “ Woe unto you, ye blind guides.
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites
, . full from extortion and excess . . in-
wardly ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.
. . Ye serpents, ye offspring of vipers, how
will ye escape the judgment of Hell?”
’
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sailors’ Case.
Editor Bulletin, —The action of the associated
shipowners in giving their seamen such per-
emptory notice of a MO per cent, reduction in a
wage which, even when permanent, little more
than enables a man and family to live, is most
callous. The enforcement of the owners’ con-
ditions will drag our seamen down perhaps
lower than any other mercantile marine workers
in the civilized world. Seamen are now asked
to accept 3s. 4d. per day of eight hours, or
sd. per hour, but the shipowners, to get their
pound of flesh, so adjust the sailing of
their steamers that they can secure 20
hours labour for 3s. 4d. On the in-
terprovincial steamers the maximum hours
worked are 19; minimum, 10 hours ; average,
14J hours —at less than 3d. per hour. In
some trades it amounts to 2d. per hour—on
which a sailor has to maintain self and children.
In the various river trades, the men are kept
continually going, and seldom or never get rest
on a Sunday or a public holiday—as was the
case when the Seamen’s Union was more power-
ful. Will the owners not have the courage to
combine and raise freights and loyally maintain
them, or will they sacrifice the seamen’s health,
homes, and happiness on the unholy altar of
Free Competition ? You can now get a first-
class steamer-ticket from Melbourne to Adelaide
for 15s. ; the difference between this and a fair
price is to be ground out of the men’s bones.
Much is made of the opportunity afforded sea-
men to work overtime, but this is more bene-
ficial to the owners than to the men, who would
often be glad to be relieved of the extra labour.
The least hours worked by sailors in one month
of 30 days are 360 ; firemen and trimmers (who
work in a vitiated atmosphere) do 240 hours a
month, or eight hours daily. Firemen now get
£9 per month (6s. per day, or 9d. per hour);
trimmers and sailors, £7 per month (4s. Bd. per
day of 12 hours). The steamship owners, most
of them in the grip of the reconstructed banks,
now reduce wages to starvation rates—firemen
7d. and sailors 3d. per hour.—S.
File on Cheap Labour.
“George Pile,” who probably writes to the
Sydney papers almost as regularly as that vir-
tuous Sydney lady, E. J. H. Knapp, raises his
voice on behalf of cheap nigger and other labour
in the S.M. Herald ;
I was very much pleased to see the letter of your corres-
pondent, “Cosmopolitan,” in your issue of to-day. I
think it is full time that the public should make a firm
stand against the organised attempt which is being made
to extort absurdly high rates of pay and special immuni-
ties and privileges by a certain section of the Railway
employes. Your correspondent does well to point out
that the Swedish workmen, the steadiest and most
reliable in the world, would be only too glad to accept
employment on our railways at half the rate of pay that
is current here. From America the Commissioners could
readily get any amount of men at like rates, as they also
could get from Scotland. And they could get specially-
trained men as engineers for drivers from Bombay at even
lower rates of pay.
The most interesting feature about “George
Pile’s” ravings, and the ravings of his accom-
plices, is the constant assurance that some
alleged individual from Sweden, or Scotland,
or Bombay, or perdition, is always ready to
come here at the shortest notice, and do any
kind of work in first-class style at half, or less
than half, Australian rates, and work longer
hours, and never strike or make any kind of
trouble. But he never comes, and the reason
why he doesn’t come is that this ideal workman
is a pure invention. He is a myth, a lie, a
delusion, and a thing of air generally, and he is
always located far off, simply in order that he
can’t be readily disproved. He is made of the
same material as the ideal Italian who came to
toil for next to nothing and sing a song of glad-
ness all day long in the Queensland canefields,
and who went on strike the first month, and
nearly scared the life out of his employer into
the bargain. Tne Swedish workman in his own
Country earns about two-thirds the wages now
paid on the Australian railways, and the cost of
Jiving in Sweden is about 25 per cent, less than it
is here, therefore the assumption that the Swede
would gladly travel to the far ends of the
earth to accept lower pay, in a land where the
cost of living is much greater, is simply George
Pile’s own ignorance. The same remarks
apply, more or less, to the alleged person from
Bombay, and, as for the American engineer, his
wages, as a rule, are cpiite as high as those paid
in this country, and why he should long for a
50 per cent, reduction in Australia, when he
raised a small civil war to avert a less reduc-
tion in Pennsylvania, passes comprehension.
Also, with regard to the cheap toiler from Scot-
land, a very considerable proportion of the
present railway employes are Scotch, and it is
an open question if they are not a trifle more
rampant than even the locally-raised artisan.
Ihe expensive Australian workman, of whom
the Piles and their kind are for ever raving, is
altogether a myth. Australia is about the
most costly country to live in on this earth, and
m proportion to rent and other outlays the
Australian is as cheap as almost any other
white workman in existence. If a cheaper
variety is imported, it can only be done by hard
lying about the conditions of life in these pro-
vinces, and when the imported worker finds
mat his apparently munificent rate of pay only
permits him to live in a stye and go naked, then
he straightway goes on strike just like the
native product. What this country wants is
hot cheap labourers, but cheap auctioneers,
ana-agents, and similar middlemen. Why Aus-
raha, in its present straits, should provide a
aige income and an expensive residence for
l' , when an equally good auctioneer and
ami- boomer,cou!d be obtained from Bombay or
‘|° I, ) f° r one-tenth the money is a problem
nch defies solution. The rampant fat person
io sits all day in an office and sells allotments
on time-payment is a ruinous burden on the
community, and any movement for importing
cheap auctioneers from abroad will have The
Bulletin’s w'armest support. This paper has
always felt that a “ firm stand” should be made
against auctioneers.
Alfred Deakin’s Two Capacities.
The Lord Chancellor, in “ lolanthe,” pointed
out the absurdity of a legal gentleman having
two capacities which clash. Alfred Deakin,
M. L.A., was before Melbourne Civil Court the
other day in a couple of capacities which
clashed. Deakin is a counsel defending David
Svme in the Railways libel-case, and one of his
chief duties is the reading of letters from
members of Parliament to the plaintiff, Speight.
These letters embody requests for railway
favours which, whether granted or otherwise
by the “ Department,” are alleged to prove its
susceptibility to “ undue influence.” Wading
through a mass of paltry applications for petti-
fogging extensions of railway service to God-
forsaken districts, Deakin, the barrister, came
across a said-to-be glaring instance of improper
importunity on the part of Deakin, M.L.A.
The residents of North Monegatta clamoured,
through Deakin, for a “siding”—estimated
cost, £4OO. This “ siding ” petition was ignored
for some months, but Deakin kept his influence
at high pressure, and in the end North Mone-
gatta got its little bit of business fixed up. The
returns from the “siding” have been small,
therefore Deakin, in his barristerial capacity,
now makes bold to state that Deakin, M.L.A.,
caused his “dear Speight” to waste money.
A unique feature of a remarkable case.
The Good Old Times.
Sydney Evening News joins in the general
wail of the capitalistic concerning pay*
ment of members :
One of the longest sessions on record comes to an end
. . . one which will be memorable, not only for its
length, but for the little amount of useful business accom-
plished. The country seems to be reaping the full and
appropriate reward for having permitted payment of
members to be carried, and to continue in force. In
return for an expenditure of some £40,000, which can ill
be spared at the present time, it gets 8500 pages of Han-
sard which nobody will, or can, read, and an Electoral
Act which was a legacy from the previous Government.
The obvious inference is that the New South
Wales sessions have grown longer, more windy,
and more barren under the system of paid
representatives than they ever were before,
therefore the province only needs to restore
the old, unpaid, amateur politician to
pub things right. This is apparently what
the News intended its readers to understand,
and if they do so they simply understand a lie.
The last session—the one whose allegedly unpre-
cedented length so aroused the News’ execration
—lasted a few days more than nine months.
Yet in the unpaid days, when there was no
Labour-party in the Assembly, and only rich
men, actuated by the purest motives and a
desire to get a railway through their own pro-
perties, infested the Legislature, things were
no better—as the evening “ organ ” distinctly
implies—but instead were a good deal worse.
The very first session under Responsible
Government in N.S. Wales was dragged out for
10 mouths. The session of 1859-60 lasted nearly
11 months; the 1863-64 session extended over
10 months ; that of 1867-68 also 10 months ; and
that of 1870-71, 10 months and 11 days. The
session of 1873-74 occupied nine months and
two weeks; and that of 1875-76, nine months
and one week. The following one stretched
over ten months, which seems to have been the
average record about that period. The session
of 1878-79 lasted very nearly eleven months,
and the next—that of 1879-80- —dragged
its weary length along for just about three-
quarters of a year. In 1883-84 the Legislature
sat for a whole year in one session, and in
1885-86 for eleven months and eight days,
and the session of 1887-88 endured a little
more than ten months. All these things
were in the days before payment of members
was invented, and they effectually disprove
the assertion of the capitalistic press that
long and barren sessions only began with the
era of paid legislators and democracy. Also
there are other curious figures relating to the
system which is held in so much reverence by
the daily papers. There was a custom, in
those days, of sandwiching short sessions in
between the long ones, so that Parliament was
called together no less than 48 times in 35
years. Also, there was another custom of
starting a new session immediately the old one
closed, whereby the unpaid Legislature sat and
talked and log-rolled for years, almost without
a break. In 1858-9, the Houses sat for almost
thirteen months with only an interval of twelve
days. There were three separate sessions in
1883 and three in 1885, and many other years
kept up a steady average of two sessions each.
There was something fearfully and horribly
voluminous about the amateur politicians of
those times, and though they were far less in
point of number they sat longer and oftener,
and talked more, and did less, and filled a
larger amount of print than their succes-
sors of the present day. Therefore, when the
daily papers demand a return to the ancient
system as a remedy for protracted sittings and
barren discussion, the country would do well
to look back on the record of the unpaid poli-
ticians who sat almost continuously for 35
years, and tried all that time to pass a Local
Government Bill, which, by reason of their in-
curable impotence, remains non-existent even
to this day.
♦
Iscariot Boh.
The Townsville (N.Q.) democratic electors now
chew out their own gorges for having been
deluded into voting against Labour-man Ogden
by the cry of “Separation in Danger!”
Philp, their member, has accepted “ Mines
and Works ” from M‘llwraith, and it has been
discovered for him that he needn’t go up for
re-election. Viewing the situation from the
safe nick of present tenure, and trusting to be
able to humbug such asses at any time anyhow,
he calmly says :
The return of such a large proportion of Labour candi-
dates in the North has made several of my Separation
colleagues in the Assembly feel that it would he wiser to
defer starting a new colony until further political
experience has opened the minds of many people to the
reception of certain economic and social facts which to
most of us seem obvious enough.
Those “ economic and social facts ” are obvious
enough—they are murky Japanese and other
Asiatic and Polynesian slaves. “ Damn Separa-
tion,” says corner-allotment Philp, “ if separa-
tion is to include democracy and no-slavery ! ”
The position of the Separation question is, therefore,
that nothing could be done in the Assembly in connection
with it, until the financial crisis disappears, and our other
colleagues of the Labour Party hare shown that it
would not be disastrous to Northern industries, if the
balance of power were placed in their hands.
Consummate effrontery ! The North is so demo-
cratic that to preserve its spoils to the Northern
Fat Man, it is to remain enslaved by the
Southern Fat Man !
Since my acceptance of office, it has been decided that
my doing so does not vacate my seat ar.d necessitate my
seeking re-election at your hands. As I am proud to
think, and fee] convinced, that you wotdd have endorsed
m y action by re-electing me, this legal decision will not be
regretted by you.
Northern wrath fails for language ! It is like
spitting on a bound and gagged foe, aud assur-
ing him that you know he approves the
act. And Townsville electors deserve the
damnable outrage.
Maoriland wants a new Anglican bishop, and
it has been decided to send to England for the
article. The diocesan synod quarrelled like a
bag of wolves over nearly everything else con-
nected with the subject, but its members were
solid on one point—that the new bishop must
be English, and no Maorilander need apply.
It is about time the Maorilanders decided that
if the sin-shifter must always be imported, the
congregation had better be imported too, and
then it can put its imported threepenny in the
plate and have a good time all by itself. In
Australasia, whenever there is any billet going
with a good salary attached, an Englishman is
imported to fill it, as a matter of course. The
“ kawliuist ” will back himself against the
world at cricket, or football, or bruising, or
any other kind of hard, muscular stupidity,
but he won’t believe that anyone grown in this
country can have a brain, or even the rudiments
of one. His faith in his own ox-like dullness is
a fearful and wonderful thing.
Extract from a Telegraph interview with
that good white man and mighty butcher,
Alderman Playfair, of Sydney ;
“It is surprising what a number of strong, healthy
men come into my shop daily, asking for some meat for
themselves and their families. And, remember, these are
all good, industrious men, who are anxious to work and
cannot get employment. I never refuse meat to anyone
who comes for it sober.”
In the case of almost any other man The Bul-
letin would surmise from the above that the
beef and blood and bull-hide magnate, with a
view to standing once more for Parliament, was
appealing to the great soul of the community
with cow’s liver, but, iu the present instance,
it has no vestige of any such suspicion. The
Playfair is notoriously a large-hearted man,
who would give half a sheep to his ivorst
enemy and carry a leg of mutton ten miles
through a snowstorm to relieve the hungry.
Sausages well up spontaneously from his kindly
soul, and he weeps hind-quarters of beef at the
sight of any genuine case of distress-*-uot that
he ever enquires very closely whether the dis-
tress is genuine or not. When he dies and goeri
to the Judgment, his good works, in the shape
of meat, will be piled up at the eternal gate ta
speak for him, and that day the premises will
look like a meat-market, and a thousand dray-
loads of beef will be bogged upon the golden
stairs. At the same time, The Bulletin hears
that quite irrespective of his meaty benevolence
Mr, Playfair intends contesting a seat at
next New South Wales Parliamentary election,
and it urges the West Sydney electors to throw
him out unanimously. He is a good and
honourable butcher, but as a politician he was
always a nonentity, and even though ho
gave away twenty - four bullocks every
day to relieve the poor, he would never
be anything else. Also, if he gave away
IS bullocks a minute he would remain the Same
kindly, well-meaning, loveable, political failure
as before.
A. J. Wilson, city editor of London Standard,
writing an article for the Investors’ Review,
appears to knock some very large holes in the
Victorian statistics compiled by Hatter,
Wilson is most violent in his attack upon
Hayteb’s average of “private wealth,” based
upon returns from the Court of Probate. Thus
he pulverises the “ private wealth ” theory
In the period 1870-74 the “average amount left hy each
person dying ” was £147 ; in 1885-89, it had risen to £309.
Multiply this figure by the entire population and “ we
have arrived,” as the Frenchman would sav. Now, just
imagine the absurdity of this sort of statistical juggling.
Infants do not make wills or leave any thing, as a rule, nor
do the majority of women, neither can we suppose that
the hulk of the labouring classes (or tramps) perform
much in that way. At most a select number of the people
put their wealth in evidence after this fashion, and it is
from their statements that Mr. Hayter generalises.
He does not even stop to look whether the values declared
under the wills of dec; ased persons are real values.
J his last sentence is specially pertinent, be-
cause probate-duty to a large amount lias been
paid on the estates of Melbourne people who
afterwards turned out to have died actually
insolvent. But the rest is simply British
ignorance of the most awful character. If
Hayter had made up his calculations as
Wilson says he did, have shown the
total wealth of \ ictoria at several billions—a
good many billions, in fact. Hatter’s calcula-
tion is simply this : so many people died during
the year; most of them left nothing; the
remainder left a certain amount, which, if
equally divided among all the people who died,
including tramps, women and infants, would
have made an all-round average of £399. No
one but an ass of the first magnitude would
have assumed that, when one man died worth a
certain amount, Hayter straightway estimated
that all the population was worth the same
amount, and Mr. A. J. Wilson evidently is
that kind of an ass. The Bulletin firmly
believes that there is something seriously wrong
in the estimates of Australian wealth, hut the
simple-minded Englishman who fondly imagines
he has struck the discrepancy, and rushes into
the papers about it, has only succeeded in
showing how little intelligence it requires to
make a British financier.
THE TWO DEAKINS.
Sing a song of Deakins twain —
Twopence coloured, penny plain ;
A lawyer stern, an M.L.A.,
A man of now, and yesterday :
Of porcelain and common dclf,
A he who isn’t like himself.
Deakin (coloured), wigged and gowned,
Full of legal lore profound,
In the Court, from time to time,
Pleads the cause of David Syme ;
David Syme, the good and great,
Wages war with Mister Speight;
Vowing that imported gent
Even as a twig was bent
By a jobbing Parliament.
Deakin, in his legal guise,
Deems it proper to despise
Legislators, one and all,
Who pursued for favours small
In the track of Richard Speight,
Famous railroad potentate.
Deakin (coloured) would disdain
To beseech another train
For a tinpot town remote
To oblige the local goat.
By the wig upon his pate,
And his duty to the State,
He would never nobble Speight!
Lobby loafers might demand
Stations in a desert land ;
He beholds with deep distress
Platforms in a wilderness ;
Weeps for wooden stations placed
On a horrid, arid waste.
Coloured Deakin’s bosom bleeds
When a private note he reads
Which suggests, in any sense,
Legislative influence
Pushed on Mister Richard S.
To induce a grumpy “ Yes,”
When, as figures seek to show,
Richard should have written “No.”
Deakin (coloured) snorts disdain
When he finds that Deakin (plain)
Badgered, in his way ornate.
Special “ siding ” out of Speight.
“Here,” says he, with solemn face,
“ Is another shocking case
Of a pressure brought to bear
On the plaintiff, sitting there.
Here his voice a moment fails—
“ Are some letters, telling tales
Of a work that couldn’t- pay,
Done for Deakin, M.L.A.”
Thus the lawyer, wigged and gowned,
Standing on his legal ground,
Careful of the public pelf,
Draws attention to himself
As a senator of weight
Who had toddled after Speight.
Deakin (coloured) shakes his head—
“ On the waters cast your bread.
And it cometh back,” he says,
“After many stormy days.”
Lord be praised that Deakin (plain)
Did not write his notes in vain,
Not in vain for siding press
’Midst the scrubby wilderness !
See, his plant is bearing fruit
For the present libel suit!
Pop it, in its golden prime,
On the plate of patron Syme.
Workers Wanted.
(What we want is immigration. Millions of workers are
necessary to our national salvation.— Victorian Patriot.)
Wanted workers, men who labour with the plough
and with the pick—
Men inured to toll, with strong and callous
hands,
Who are patient as the oxen, who will make the
dull earth quick,
And will sweep the stubborn forests from the
lands.
Wanted workers swart with smoke-stains, men to
labour in the hold
Men to dig and delve, to sow, and search, and
prise,
Men to forge, and fell, and fight, men to sift the
earth for gold—
Workers wanted !, ’Tis the drones who adver-
tise.
From the Old World slums they’ll welcome them,
the Gentile and the Jew,
Where the tangled trees still cumber Austral
soil.
Welcome workers gaunt with striving, who can
suffer and can do—
Men who’re damned with Adam’s curse of end-
less toil,
For the pain to be endured, for the dangers to be
dared,
Wanted volunteers from European styes.
Goal and gold await the digging, there are scrub-
lands to be bared—
Workers wanted ! Tis the drones who adver-
tise.
Gome, ye workers, that the schemers in the cities
may be glad,
That the rogues who buy and barter may be
fed,
And on ’Change the greedy tricksters in fine
raiment may be clad
Whilst they gamble for your profits—aye, your
bread ! x
Wanted workers, that directors and that agents
need not work,
That the lawyer and the middleman may rise ;
That the classes may have glory, and the banker,
and the kirk—
Workers wanted ! ’Tis the drones who adver
tise.
EDWARD DISON.
The system of “ National prizes ” has been
abolished by N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
The best practical farmers would not compete, an'd
there were cases in which competitors, on
seeing the sort of men sent to judge their farms,
re^usec * to ivbow tbein to inspect,
Item of backblocks news received by a
Sydney daily
On the nijfiit o( the 30th May eiirht men, of more or less
villainous appearance, broke into the dwelling of -
on run, and stole meat, siiirar, a chest of
tea, and a lot of miscellaneous property. Constable A ,
armed, was promptly on the scene and snrronmhd and
arrested the whole bringing them in by force of
I V° ,al ® uasfi ? l ,' an<l a six-diamhered revolver. He walked
thenl 2 5 miles and drove in buggies the rest of tho
distance.


ptic6 to guit all fight*.
Pitted, by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10,0 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «5c ROBERTS,
Jewellery Showrooms,
33 HUNTER STREET. SIHNEI.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
EROS SARD’S SWISS.
ilk Good. and. Cheap Cigar.
m
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO.,
PAYERNE (Switzerland).
linQst Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
July 5, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The striking of the ’93 coinage (the picturesque
aspect of which I have already alluded to) by
Lady Duff, at the Mint, last Saturday morning,
was a smoothly-running function decorated with
flags as far as the eye could see. “ Her Excel-
lency ” cut out and stamped Victoria’s new por-
trait very cleverly, but I don’t think Lady Duff
makes enough “points,” as the actors say, out of
a thing like that—she goes at it too steadily, for
one reason. When anything technical confronted
Lady Garington she was always visibly helpless
over it—the “ won’t you please show me how ?”
sort of thing that makes the man in charge feel
ready to get caught in the machinery to oblige a
person. Lady Duff—not being a pretty, dolly
little actress —didn’t put much “colour” into
her first appearance as a coitier.
The proceedings were full of frill. Lady Duff
(accompanied by Sir Robert in a top hat and gold-
rimmed spectacles) wore a pink gown rather
reminiscent of a water-melon, the little black dots
on it looking like the pips, and trimmed with
black lace, bonnet of black and pink, and posy of
pinlc roses and heath tied with pink ribbons, the
gift of the host. The late Acting-Governoress
brightened a black toilette with a posy of yellow
roses from the same giver, Mrs. Prendergast
wore a specially elegant confection of mouse cloth
and dull blue velvet exactly matching the spots on
the cloth, and edgings of beaver fur, bonnet, muff,
and parasol a fastidious match ; Mayoress Man-
uingappeared insteel-grey brocade and blackvelvet
with a notion of green in the bonnet; jolly Mrs.
Bowden-Smith, in black woollen with sleeves and
bodice trimming of pink velvet designed in black
fans, bonnet en suite ; Miss M‘Donagh, in brown
with Louis vest of tinsel cloth. Mrs. Eddy wore
a Siberian sort of dress of black velvet trimmed
with brown-bear fur, small black bonnet picked
out with jet; Mrs. S. Hordern wore black ; a
warrior’s wife cut rather a dashing figure in
bright purple velvet only half tamed with black,
and a violet-trimmed bonnet the shape of a
Mexican saddle on her golden locks. Mrs. Alfred
Bennett wore brown brocade with a feather boa,
diamond ornaments. After the striking the
guests were “took ” in the usual semi-circle
and then a very effective luncheon was
served in a side reom. The room tables were
fairyfied with roses and heather and floral arches,
besides little boutonnieres to each guest, and the
only funny thing about was that several ladies
stood up to honour Mr. Macdonald Cameron's
health-after Premier Dibbs had betrayed that he
was married, too !
It seems to - be as hard for Mr. Macdonald Cam-
eron to wear a suit of clothes as it is for Addie
Conyers to wear skirts. After which ambiguity I
must hurry to explain that Mr. C. sports his
gorgeous kilts to the manner born—he effaces them
effectually. Somebody remarked this gift at a
recent ball: “ One hardly knows you’ve got ’em
on, whereas the average Sandy McDougall looks
like the begininngs of a Scotch ballet-girl.” “It
takes eight hundred years to know how to wear
’em,” loftily retorted the Master of Sydney Mint.
The Lyceum was V.R. for the first time this
tynasty, at the “ Sweet Lavender ” premiere—
ir Robert and Lady Duff, with their daughters
and suite, turning up and behaving just like an
ordinary theatre-party. For one thing, there was
no roping off ; the vice-regal people occupied the
front row in the centre going from circle to circle,
and if three huge managerial bouquets hadn’t
been visible on the plush rail, and the orchestra
hadn’t bolted withv a bar of the Anthem to b%in
with, the vice-regal presence wouldn’t have made
much difference in the outward aspect of the
bouse.
Lady Duff’s dress was a black silk flowered with
mauve, and made with heliotrope velvet and short
sleeves and trimmings of what seems to be the
wearer’s favourite ornament —black jet. Her opera-
cloak was crimson velvet; Miss Duff wore white
corded silk ; Miss Heather Duff, pink silk and
chiffon; Miss Mabel Duff, who is still in the
schoolroom, did not wear evening robes—which
cannot be said of the rest of the circle, where snip
reigned supreme. A contralto songstress from
Melbourne brought a musical theatre-party of 15
(including Madame Kellermann in pink satin),
and was a ease in point.
The most astonishing thing about “Sweet
Lavender ” was that when the wiggy old banker
appeared to have “smashed,” as usual, the ladies
of his household—well-groomed up to then—came
out at once, in reconstructed-looking raiment.
Perhaps they had rushed and hypothecated thei r
Sunday frocks! Which was a pity, for Mis B
Watson’s pink silk empire dress, spotted with
pink rosea and made with puffy sleeves of pink
satin, and an “empire” sash edged with gold
fringe, was very tasteful. But—in her “empire,”
of course—l think Miss Watson rather overdoes
the pillow-case style of Looking—walking-dress of
green and yellow looked, for one thing, as if the
lady’s political opinions were hopelessly confused.
Jenny Watt-Tanner wore overwhelming clothes
as Mrs. Gilfillan, but her radiance was a mere
wax-match to the glory of Cosgrove’s dressing-
jacket, garnished with petunia silk—he only wanted
a red-and-green smoking-cap and pink-and-blue
slippers to be a study. Hilda Spong sported the
sad, mousey tints of her mousey part, and pre-
sented a great stage-contrast to that other land-
lady’s daughter who waited upon bachelors, and
who “used to lay the cloth, you know,” for the
candidate’s son. The gifted Mr. Terry also
adopts very chastened clothing in “Sweet
Lavender” with artistic results. Ido hope that
that carroty smoking-cap will be hung up for the
remainder of the season.
I am faintly amused to hear that the prim and
proper Sydney Y.W.O.A. is alluded to familiarly,
in interested circles, as the “Y” —a very fitting
name indeed. For instance, Y don’t they let the
young men join their revels ? and Y do they wear
flat boots?
The only electrifying incident during Gov.
Duff’s recent visit to Homebush was when His
Ex. said : “I think I see some of the emblems of
the Duff tartan among you.” The cattle-haunted
suburb may now plume itself on being the first
place to “ strike ” the vice-regal token —a veritable
jack o’ lantern in tartans, so far.
Lady Duff’s apparently unconquerable habit of
always carrying a smile or two from the face of
nature when she appears in public, is going to lead
to a floral Block. Such fashions, however, are
apt to degenerate. Sydney’s social hubs generally
carry something tasteful, but if vice-regality
burdens itself with early roses, late violets, prema-
ture dahlias, and luxuries like that, its disciples
will follow on with ragged bundles of candy-tuft
carried at the most stylish angle in the world.
Flower-fashions catch on faster than any. When
the Bernhardt landed in Sydney with a violet in
her mouth, half the Block at once took its button-
hole between its teeth.
In the first act of “Amazons,” at Sydney
Criterion, the gorgeous red-plush breeches on the
flunkey—like a chip off the d.c. chairs—were far
and away the gayest bit of millinery. For two
acts the Amazons run up more tailors’ than eou-
turi&res’ bills. Mrs. Brough looked very artistic
in a brown velvet vest and jacket, gaiters and
knickerbockers of brown, and a brown seal hat,
and one hardly seemed to notice she didn’t trail
off into petticoats, the get-up was so unconsci-
ously worn. Brenda Gibson was very sporting in
a fawn-checked riding-suit, and what are techni-
cally known as “ goose-tops ” —but why will the
actor-lady who is “ going it ” keep up the hollow
farce that she can’t smoke a cigarette to ashes ?
Surely it isn’t a confession of evil to dispose of one
mild, paper smoke in the course of stage business?
I do wonder why almost every drawing room act-
ress (with the exception of Mrs. Bernard Beere)
puffs a few exaggerated whiffs, then ostentatiously
throws the innocent weed at the prompter ?
Miss Noble—newly unpacked, as it were—cut a
very charming appearance in the “Amazons.”
Her angling get-up of blue and yellow (her legs
were yellow, like a duck’s), the whole topped off
by a russet felt hat, was a perfect picture, and she
looked well in her pink and black gym. dress.
Looking at her, it struck me, sudden like, that a
peach-faced girl, with di\rk hair and eyes, is quite
a harmony in those two colours.
The only fault I found with Miss Nobio was the
size of the canvas-shoe she slipped in the last act.
It seems a foolish oversight on the part of any
lady not to arrange to shed a daisy root of the
smallest size in the market when the thing is going
to be done in the middle of the stage —or so I
think, at least. In the last act the Amazons
lengthen their skirts —which accounts for the
great gap in material from their ears to the
sixteenth notch, taking a back view. Mrs. Bromrh
was charming in pink brocade and chiffon ; Miss
Noble wore pearl-colour with big sleeves of purple
velvet; and Miss Gibson wore white, as usual.
What the people in front wore I don’t know, for I
didn’t look—only I saw the Maoriland footballers
(who gave Mrs. Brough a bouquet) were
there with silver-fern leaves in their coats and
tartan ties for the most part.
While folks, blazing with indignation against
the larrikin element, are shrieking in chorus for
the application of all sorts of deterrent torture to
the froward grown child of the gutter, it is amus-
ing to read the new regulations referring to cor-
poral punishment in N.S.W. State schools. There
is practically no more birch in the bright horo-
scope of public-school youth 1
For instance, the young Cornstalk must not be
thrashed for “failure or inability to learn” (you
might as reasonably flog a child for refusing to
eat fat), nor for “ neglecting to prepare home
lessons.” I quite agree with the regulation for-
bidding the “ boxing of pupils’ ears or the tapping
of heads,” if only for the of the
idiot-asylums ; but there are other less dangerous
places (or so Alice Leamar inferred in “whacky
whack”) where a pickled rod would act like a
charm. To my way of thinking, it is much less
harmful to spank an urchin than to put off his
correction until he is a man.
At the same time, mind you, I think the vicious
pedagogue who lashes out at the “ shraking ” of a
slate-pencil ought to have some restriction put
upon his energy. Even the most extreme cases
ought not to be forced to take their gruel crawling
round the class-room on all-fours—as is the prac-
tice, I am told, at one N.S.W. State school.
Speaking from an ornamental pointof view (and
doesn’t every woman prefer to have her Gussie’s
eight-hands collar chipping bits*bff his ears rather
than encourage him down the easy slope that leads
to a flannel shirt?) I think the Australian man de-
serves snicking at for the way he lets his fearful
“notions of comfort” dominate his outer husk.
If he doesn’t wear an ice-cream suit in the dog-
days, as the writer who has set my pen wagging
seems to think he should —it Is because he is too
lymphatic to make an outward daily change of
more than his collar —not that street criticisms
trouble him. Besides, white suits are as far
beyond the average youth (unless he happens to be
a policeman) as a white frock is beyond the aver-
age girl who can’t wield her own flat-iron. They
may be cool and tropical, and all that, but the
hank-clerk who has once faced the washing-bill of
white-duck-trousered summer clings abjectly to
sergerette for the rest of his natural life.
I am beginning to think that, like the Sydney
School of Industry, where the little girls when at
church have to stand up till their patrons leave
the gospel-shop, the Factory Girls’ Club in Sydney
is simply a place for foi-elock-tweaking. At the
crowded meeting, presided over by Gov. Duff last
week, all the speeches bore, in letters of fire, the
brand “manufactured for the inculcation of Proper
Spirit into the Young Person.” Said one speaker
(in effect) : “Isn’t it wonderful to find welhcon-
nected women (!) taking an interest in such kittle-
cattle as you ? isn’t it overwhelming to know that
the classes actually love the masses’’—while you
rise with both hands and don’t go much beyond
“ Yis, mum,” in your parleyings !
Now, I will venture to bet that the prize
Factory-club girl is the one who bobs to her
patronesses, and who gets as close to “ knuckling
her forehead ” as her Australian up-bringing per-
mits —and so, with an Independent Australia
in my eye, I don’t smile on clubs where
white-handed women come in silky gowns and
loftily patronise weary work-gii'ls. If work-girls
must be under surveillance, do, please, let the men
have the patronising of them—for the girls will
like it better and there won’t be so much syco-
phancy.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Right’s Right.”
Lyceum “Sweet Lavender.”
Criterion “ The Amazons.”
Tivoli Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ Ticket-o.f-Leave Man.”
Exhibition Building Fillis’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “A Million of Money.”
Bijou Marihel Gyeenwood Co
Opera House Variety Show.
“The Amazons” was staged at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, and the consequences
thereof were remembersome. This latest of
Pinero’s plays has an entirely new joke imbedded
in the centre of it. It is based upon a full-sized
widow who has three daughters, whereas both she
and her late husband yearned only for sons.
They compromised by dressing the three young
ladies in male attire and passing a resolution that
they were sons, and the three shoot and smoke
cigarettes and swing Indian clubs, and otherwise
struggle to keep up the illusion. But when they
reach a marriageable age they can’t reasonably
propose to any other girl, and other men
can’t reasonably propose to them —a lady in pants
and shooting-boots and a hard hat and a cigarette
is always a difficult thing to propose^to; there-
fore the trio find themselves an anomaly. Yet
three reckless men, being devoid of the fear of
God, and carrying their lives in their hands, do
make matrimonial overtures none the less, having
climbed on the roof and slid desperately down a
rope to do it; and their frenzied valour makes up
the humour of the story. They succeed, princi-
pally because the eldest girl, being out late at
night in her swallow-tail coat, gets mixed up in a
fight with a coal-heaver and barks her knuckles on
his head, and gets home in the early morning
with a sickening conviction that the joy of
being a man is much overrated.
* * *
Miss Brenda Gibson plays the slangy boy-
girl of the trio; Miss Grace Noble does the smallest
boy-girl—the one who never took kindly to
the gun and pants, and has a hidden yearning to
be only a girl ; and the miserable daughter who
tries to paint London red and faints in the effort
is represented by Mrs. Brough. This lady’s legs
received a thundering ovation, and her appearance
in knickerbockers and calves and a cigarette was
a triumph ; from the moment of her entrance the
house fixed itself on her extremities as one opera-
glass, and declined to let go. Miss Noble proves
to be a rather pretty little woman with a sweet
voice, and large, wistful eyes, and the audience
distinctly approved of her. Of the three male
lovers, Bouoioault, as a galvanic Frenchmen, is by
far the best, and he plays the part as
probably no other man in Australia could
play it. Next, comes Cecil Ward, as a feeble
aristocrat, whose family has had cramp in the
stomach ever since the Crusades; and Tither-
adge does the other man with his wonted ability.
“ The Amazons ” should always be kept in reserve
as a piece to be produced in bad times. Mrs.
Brough’s calves—to return to that inexhaustible
subject—would fill any> treasury, no matter how
desperate the financial straits of the company
might be. Professor Anderson Stuart*' by the
way, asserts that calves are a sign of brains. The
Bulletin holds that’the theory is the other side
up—brains are a sign of calves; and the present is
a case in point. The fact that Mrs. Brough has
brains was demonstrated long ago. Now, as the
natural consequence, it is demonstrated that she
has extremities —which are the result of brains.
The result always comes after the cause, therefore,
if Mr. Stuart’s theory were correct, Mrs. Brough’s
calves —to mention them for the last time—would
have been in evidence some years ago.
** * *
“Sweet Lavender,” which has replaced
the ghastly “Churchwarden,” at the Lyceum, has
enabled Mr. Terry to demonstrate that he isn’t
quite'ttie failure he appeared to be last week. As
Dick Phenyl, the wreckage of the strange, old,
beery barrister, Terry is possibly even a littla
better than his —er—pupil, the lamented FranlJ
Thornton, than which it is hardly possible to say
more. His shadowy outline and his figure, which
is an elongated needle with a dishevelled head
and a painted nose at the upper end, are well
suited to the barrister’s decayed wardrobe; and
there is fog and gin in his voice, and the rheum of
many brandies in his filmy eye. Misses Henrietta
Watson and Watt-Tanner, and Mr. Sass make an
effective background. “Sweet Lavender” con-
sists so much of one character that the dismal in-
feriority of Lavender herself, played by Miss
Hilda Spong, and the hopelessness of Mr. Cos-
grove, whose weakness is like unto the weakness
of boarding-house tea, are matters of less import
ante than usual.
** * *
George Rignold’s big drama, at Sydney
Majesty’s, was alluded to last week as an artistic
success of a capacious order, and it has continued
that way ever since. Its brilliance is largely
dependent on Jennie Lee, as the aggressive girl
with the foundered hat and boots, who habitually
cleans out her father’s premises with a paling
when she gives way to irritation, and daws her
enemies with a gay abandon which is pleasant to
witness. Jennie looks mostly like an avalanche
of torn umbrellas as she tears around on various
errands of wickedness, and her aggressiveness
her slang, her cheerful readiness to fight a cir-
cular saw if wanted, the wild rush of her tattered
stockings across the landscape, her willingness
to smoke or swear, and her final repentance when
she piteously mops up her countenance with what
seems to be the ruins of an ancient necktie and
resolves to wash herself and live respectably ever
afterwards, have made a deep impression on the
audience. Also, the play contains an artistically
villainous uncle in a steeple-hat who is well repre-
sented by Mr. Norman; a murderer with a broken
nose who folds himself up like the Arab’s tent
and silently steals away when things get sultry
for his employer; a homicide with two bow legs
who turns Queen’s evidence; two friends dressed
in bathing pants ; and much good scenery and
effects.
The “ Ticket-of-Leave Man,” which never
altogether fails to make a boom, drew a big Satur-
day night audience to Sydney Royal. The good
old drama is propped up, however, by a company
which seems to be afflicted with a tendency to run
to seed, and Messrs, Rainford, Plimmer, and
George Buller are the only personages who rise
above mediocrity. The evergreen Alfred Dampier
is much missed. At present that gentleman is
understood to be busy filing his schedule in Mel-
bourne. A long run of undeserved misfortune,
and, in particular, the curse of the Melbourne
Alexandra, which was the beginning of all Mr.
Danipier’s troubles, find expression in that
schedule. Liabilities, over <£6500 ; assets, .£250.
** * *
Fitzgerald Brothers’ Circus has some
more new programme this week, and business in
the region down by the Sydney Benevolent
Asylum is good. A prospective sensation is a
kangaroo-hunt, which is in active preparation, and
will be put on as soon as the kangaroo has learned
his part, and can be relied upon not to turn upon
the firm in anger and rend it with his hind claw.
If a massive kangaroo lands his hack claw just
where it would be most effective, he generally
wrecks so much of the defendant’s anatomy that
his digestion is exposed. Captain W. E. Humph-
reys, who describes himself on his card as
“elephant subjugator”—what’s the matter with
“hyaena paralyser,” or “bison petrifier ? ”—is
training Fitzgerald’s lions to various exercises,
and they and the “subjugator” will probably
make a joint appearance next Saturday.
m* * #
Fillis’ Circus was announced to open this
Wednesday for another farewell season in Sydney,
and the glories of the show and the newly-imported
French artists will be expounded at full length in
next week’s issue. The Circus has grown con-
siderably since its last visit, and now claims to be
the biggest thing of its kind this side of Sheol.
** * *
Harry Rickards’ show at Sydney Tivoli
is alive and seems to he distinctly well, unless
some hidden complaint is preying on its vitals.
Among the new additions to the Co., Miss Elfie
Morelia, a lady with a sweet soprano voice, is
about the most conspicuous.
** * *
Lonnen and the residue of the Gaiety Co.
entered upon the last stage of their Melb. season
on Saturday. The bill was “ Miss Esmeralda,” re-
constructed for the occasion. Reconstruction has
done very little good tor “ Miss Esmeralda.” It
is well, though, for the present crowd to end in
something which enables the loss of poor old
Nellie Farren to be properly appreciated. Satur-
day’s performance was under the patronage of
two champion football teams, whom W. & M.
recklessly invited to be present, just as they (the
footballers) had arranged to pay their own fares
in the ordinary way. A warning for managers
not to fall down and worship the very class of
young men that burlesque has special charms for.
This great football occasion had a somewhat tragic
termination, by the way. Major Wardill, a chief
pillar of the sport, was run in for obstructing the
footpath in front of the Princess’s, as the audience
was leaving. The spectacle of the Major
being led off by a policeman, whilst forty
athletes and their supporters groaned in im-
potent rage, was a curious illustration of Marvel-
lous Melbourne’s sheep-like docility in the presence
of the Law. On his native heath the footballer
kicks at everything, including the umpire. But
on his best behaviour he hasn’t the spirit necessary
for kicking against the insufferable tyranny—as it
was in this case—of an ill-regulated police regula-
tion. Lonnen and Co. finish on Friday with a
“ novel special programme,” which will, one hopes,
contain plenty of Alice Leamar. Alice is the only
girl of them all who speaks her lines with any real
regard for their meaning, and it was she who
should have worn Nellie Farren’s shoes through-
out.
** » *
Bland Holt opens at the Princess’s on
Saturday with his colossal show, “A Million of
Money.” Whispers concerning this mighty under-
taking have wafted from Sydney. “ A Million of
Money ! ” Half-a-dozen local bank-managers are
scheming to get the melodrama on fixed deposit.
** * *
“ Leah ” was produced at the Bijou on
Saturday. “Leah,” a play unfamiliar to the
rising generation, is a sad and tearful business,
remarkable for its anti-Semitic sentiments and
flights of oratory. Years ago, the eldest Miss
Bateman travelled America and England in the
name part, shaking each country with her
frequent explosions of passion and identifying her
name with a gruesome graveyard curse in the
fourth act. Another “Leah ” Bateman might
extract a handsome competence from the old-
fashioned story even in these days, when the chief
difference between Jews and Christian* is a mere


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,292,010 ss. Xd..,
and its SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457.808 Ss. XcX., being the LARGEST
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Note.— This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
nsurance Department. The Assets, Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
he State by the Insurance Superintendent
TKe Old Blend
Wlusfcy
VW 1 Cellar
direct mom oismtEßs
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MEL LOW
"*■ MATUOtD SCOTCH MALT
TheWhileHorstCellar.
S A
nburgh
nasal matter, and the daughters of Israel marry
into the noble British Peerage by special license.
Miss Maribel Greenwood, however, is not an
actress of the whirlwind species. She is
small, fragile, and distinctly amateurish in
her sufferings. She hasn’t even enough long
black hair to do the part full justice.
But she means well, and pronounces certain words
after the manner of the Chosen People, this latter
being a decided point in favour of personation. If
Miss Maribel talked like a Christian, there would
be no sort of realism about her painful effort.
Another Miss Greenwood plays the next most
important female character, and asserts her
family claim to stand in the line of limelight when
the situation grows serious. The beauteous
Greenaway, who somewhat resembles these young
ladies in appearance, is required to cast off Leah,
after having sworn to lead her to the Promised
Land, despite their religious differences. The
vigorous manner in which Greenaway told
Miss Maribel to get away on Saturday
night was his best bit pf acting up to
date ; and although Maribel tried to get level by
asking Heaven to wither his unborn offspring
in the next act, the Gentile lover had all the best
of the deal. Robert Inman furnished a satisfactory
conception of an apostate Jew who got bowled out
at the finish, and was satisfactorily denounced as
Nathan. A few other people were not of much
account, and the limelight knew them not. It is
probable that a Shakespearian tragedy, or some-
thing, will replace “Leah ” on Saturday.
*■ * * *
Exhibition concerts are flourishing. Sna-
zelle’s rational Sundays also succeed in the teeth
of the godly, and the variety shows contrive to
exist somehow.
** * *
The benefit concert to be tendered, on
Thursday next (13th July), to Miss Cicely
Staunton (who goes abroad to develope her charm-
ing contralto voice), at Sydney Y.M.C. A. Hall,
under the patronage of Gov. and Lady Duff,
Speaker Abbott, and a host of other notables,
should be a great success, even in these hard
times. All the leading musicians of Sydney (or
so many of them as can find room) will take part,
for the beneficiare is equally popular in and out of
the profession.
At Poverty Point.
Dr. Hansliok, the Viennese musical critic, wrote ten
.years ago, after a visit to London “It is difficult to get
into the good graces of an English audience, but, once in,
it is impossible to get out again. . . Poor Sims Reeves
is still wheezing at every concert, and is breathlessly
listened to and rapturously applauded by crowded
audiences. So with Madame , and Signor .
Santley is the only one who preserves his style and some
portion of his once glorious voice.” In the light of recent
Australian musical events The Bulletin cannot quarrel
with Hanslick.
A crowd of local senators visited Melb'. Opera House,
last week, with the particular purpose of hearing Frank
Clark fire off a well-known parody on “The Bogie Man.”
Unlike many parodies this is a vast improvement on the
original, and the happiest thing in its line that Lance
Lenton has put together. Jimmy Munrofigures as “darned
old fogey man.” References to the broguey man, Bryan
O'Loghlen, are distinctly reckless, and there was a time
when Len ton’s idea of the representative “ roguey man ”
would have made the Crown shudder, if the Crown had
been present. Now and then, too, a certain “ soaky
man ” appears in the song, without the least considera-
tion for the feelings of Melbourne sassiety.
The big eastern gallery of Sydney Town Hall, reserved
gratis for the use of aldermen and their deadheads, is
known as the “ aldermen’s gallery.” It is crammed to its
utmost capacity at every function or entertainment by
the aldermen’s wives, families, relatives, and far-away
connections by marriage and business and electioneering
ties. When an entrepreneur rents the hall he takes with
it the whole aldermanic clientele for admission on a huge
free pass. Aldermanic gluttony is, indeed, a wonderful
thing.
“Sweet Lavender” fetches up again queer points of
play-proprietorship, through B. & B. giving the real
Phenyl his show. They would not let Toole act his
“Butler,” and the Bancrofts, in their Rip Van Winklish
trip to Australia, will have to beg “Caste” and“ School”
off George R., while there is a doubt whether Mrs. Potter
could not have stopped Sarah from playing “La Tosca.”
At New York the women absolutely rushed Paderewski
and recalled him until he was exhausted. After the final
matinee the pianist, himself half-sobbing, was surrounded
by an hysterical crowd of females who leaned over as far
as possible towards the stage and “ looked languishingly.”
Every woman within range pelted the long-haired one
with flowers. Paderewski, meanwhile, backed off, making
a. continuous display of the top of his head ; but in vain.
The “push,” ranging in age from 15 to 50, “caught him
by both hands ; begged for his autograph to photos, they
had; sighed, giggled, laughed, cried, posed. He kissed
the hands of some, not with the ordinary polite pretence
of a kiss, but with a warm, resounding smack that made
those who were not so favoured glare horribly at those
who were. Ilis agent finally dragged him into’the dress-
ing-room and then hurried him out.”
Six pounds a week advertised rent for a shop next
Melbourne Opera House !
“Melba’s voice is pure crystal,” says Sarah Bernhardt.
Fox, eminent wig-maker, who made 450 wigs for
Irving’s “Dead Heart,” has suicided, through bad specs.—
one of which was financing Eille Norwood’s “Noble Art,”
round England.
As illustrating the duration of the “life” of a theatre
it is questionable, remarks a Bulletin correspondent, if in
Australia there is one house now standing in which Q. V.
Brooke appeared. There is in Bathurst an old theatre in
which he p rformed, but although stage, gallery, and pit
(still seated) are there, the building is used as a chaff-store.
The theatres here, says Tub Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent, are suffering from the depression, and few
houses now pay expenses. When times are bad on the
Stock Exchange public amusements are neglected. Capel
Court is the pulse of Bohemia,
Ada Crossley, the Victorian contralto, goes to England
- where fortune awaits her.
Charles and Roland Cunningham, who took leading
parts in the Lyric Club’s performance, at Melb. Bijou, are
brothers of the Carl Rosa tenor of that ilk, also of the
leader of Melb. Aaaus staff, and are both well-known in
Melb. aquatic circles.
Lonnen says his black eye was inflicted by a blunt
instrument. A closed fist is generally blunt.
Melbourne Opera House prices now'Dress circle, 2s. 1
stalls, ls.;*amphitheatre, 6d. Shade of Lyster !
One of Madame Steen’s mystical performances at
Broken Hill;—“The climax was reached when Madame
announced that one of the committeemen’s watches was
in pawn, and that he had left the ticket for it at home.
The gentleman in question looked sorry he had given his
services for the evening.”
“Poverty Point” continued on page 2S.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The bill brought in by the MTI wraith Cabinet,
authorising the Government to leave its £2,000,000 in
the Queensland National Bank, was, as everybody knew,
a bill to save the bank from destruction. It couldn’t
have found £2,000,000 in cash just now to save the board
from being dropped into Gehenna. Therefore, every
Q.N. IBank shareholder was personally interested in the
measure, and the vote of every one of them who has a
seat in tlje Legislature is either null and void, or else the
standing order which forbids any member voting on a
question in which he has a pecuniary interest is an empty
formality, and means nothing at all.
* # #
The shares of the Commercial Bank of Sydney,
A.J.S., City of Melbourne, and National Bank of Austra-
lasia began to re-appear in the share quotations a few
days after they resumed business. But, so far as the
writer can ascertain, there lias not been, up to date, a
single quotation for Commercial of Australia shares,
despite the fact that the Commercial was born again a
good many weeks before the others. The great bank is
apparently altogether too great; it is a species of para-
lysed elephant on the Stock Exchange, and no one knows
what to do with it. It has such a stupendous capital,
and such a vast liability, and it is so huge a mystery alto-
gether, that when it does begin to be regularly quoted it
will probably appear as—“ Buyers, Id.; sellers, ±25.”
These figures would probably express the situation about
as well as anything.
* » *
Many bogus-notes of one of the reconstructed
banks are now in circulation ; but the bank makes very
little fuss about them, and seems to have issued no
warning through the press—perhaps for fear of damaging
its own paper credit.
* # #
It was rumoured that the Vic. Savings Banks
were to be amalgamated under the managership of
Graham Berry, an ex-director of the Mercantile ! The
mere circulation of such a rumour shows what Victoria
has come to.
# * ' «
Goldsbrough and Mort’s bitch suggests again
the difficulty in replacing the man by the company—as
with the Stevenson embroglio. One thinks again of Sam
Ramsden’s “I’m my own company.” In commerce, any-
how, there’s always someone to be worshipped. Big
business is all Bismarokism.
« # 9
Bank audits will never be freed from trickery
until all banks go to the audit-poll ou the same day. It
is no secret that the bank which audits one week is often
accommodated with the paper of the bank to audit next
week. No Government audit can stop or even discover
this. A compulsory audit on all banks by State auditors
who will inspect the cash and securities all on the same
day, and as much as possible at the same part of the day,
should be a feature of the new Banking bills.
* # #
Patterson calling M‘Donald, J.P. (the “com-
mitter” of Matthew Davies) a “crank” reminds one of
George Anson’s indignation at being styled a parvenu,
until he learned the real meaning of the terra. On hear-
ing that a parvenu was “a nobody who has become a
somebody,” he pranced around the stage crying, “Damn
it ! I am a parvenu, and I’m proud of it.” One can
imagine M’Donald in his rage asking “ What’s a crank f'
“ A crank, sir, is someone who persists in doing the right
thing, although he is told that the wrong thing would be
much better for the blessed country.” Whereupon the
hard-headed ornament to the Bench replies, “Then I’m a
thorough-paced crank, I am. Clialk it on my back.”
• mm
What about that =820,000 missing from the Im-
perial Bank, Melbourne?
# * *
The Vic. Crown Prosecutor has advised Attor-
ney-General O’Loghlen that there is no case against any-
body connected with the British Bank of Australasia,
save managing-director Staples. Staples is already doing
five years for another bank swindle, and at latest
O’lnghlen was “considering” the advisability of another
prosecution. Don’t waste any more money over the con-
viction of a caged bird, Bryan. Spend it on some of the
criminals who haven’t yet been convicted. There is ,
but the list is too long to print. Tun Bulletin was never
intended to come out as a catalogue.
• # #
Is Matthew Davies to be seriously prosecuted
in the Melbourne Criminal Court, or how?
# # #
The slow and stately march of every sort of
procedure against Matthew Davies has been observed
with a fixed smile of derision, up to date. Melbourne
history can show no case to compare with Matthew’s in
the matter of its need for long and deep consideration.
# * *
If Davies and Millidge come up for trial the
interest of the case will centre in the examination of
William Simpson, the legal accountant. He wasn’t ex-
amined very much at Melb, Police Court nor cross-
examined at all. In fact, the police-court performance
was rather like “Hamlet ” with the Melancholy Dane re-
duced to a super.
* * *
It is said that at least 40 members of the Vic.
Legislature would jump upon their hats tor joy if William
Simpson were safely dead and buried—or “squared.”
Fat Man’s emissaries are alleged to be strewing the daily
walks of Simpson with banana-skins and orange-peel, and
they report on his state of health like so many touts en-
gaged watching a “dangerous” horse for the book-
makers. The worst of it is that Simpson flourishes on
the bitter hatred of the bank-gang, and accepts the
banana-skins as personal compliments,
• # *
It will be interesting and, perhaps, instructive
to see how those leading Melbourne lights face the music
on 19th July, when Murray-Jones’ petition in regard to
the winding-up of the now famous City Road Co. is re-
turnable. So far, of course, the public has heard but one
side of the story, re the alleged dummying. But should
the petitioner’s affidavit be founded ©n fact, what price
the promoters of confidence !
# # m
It is now fully realised that the views on bung-
bank re-oonstruciion, taken by N.S.W. Chief Judge in
Equity Owen and Vic. Chief Justice Madden, favour the
Fat Man, but do scant justice to the creditors. In the
two banks, whose re-construction was sanctioned by him,
Judge Owen refused to alter the schemes so as to con-
tinue the liability of present shareholders, or to prohibit
transfers of shares, or to insist upon a limitation of the
dividends to be pair! to shareholders till ail creditors were
paid off. Before C.J. Madden, the Commercial Bank was
re-born without similar safeguards to creditors; and
depositors were obliged to become preference shareholders
in an institution of whose affairs or solvency they were
ignorant. Judge Owen, in addition to his sanction, pro-
ceeded to bestow upon one of his bantlings an extra-
judicial blessing, into which was dragged the name of
God.
* • •
In strong contrast to the Fat Man method of
reconstruction is that adopted by Justice Williams in the
two banks whose schemes have come before him for
sanction, the Victoria and the Colonial. In each of
these he made substantial alterations in favour of credi-
tors, whom he considered the court must chiefly regard.
Consequently, he insisted that one-fourth of the prefer-
ence shares must be actually taken up ; that no mvioenua
paid to shareholders shall exceed five per cent, till tne
creditors are paid off ; and that the present shareholders
shall remain liable on the transfer of their shares. _ -Not
only is it the right, but the duty of the court, said
Justice Williams, “ to enquire into the schemes submitted
minutely, in the interest of creditors, and particularly of
the minority of creditors who have not consented to tne
compromise.”
* # •
Andrew Lyell’s expert report on the solidity of
the Standard Bank was amusing reading. He approved
of the reconstruction scheme, but “he was of opinion
that, under the most favourable conditions which might
at present reasonably he expected to arise, the receipts
from addilional capital and from realisation of assets
were not likely to create within the next five years a suf-
ficient amount of liquid capital to enable the bank to
transact a profitable business of a general banking char-
acter.” What the dickens the bank would do under the
least favourable conditions was a matter that Lyell didn t
touch upon. He wasn’t paid to make himself unpleasant,
but merely to examine the awful books and say whether
there was any earthly possibility of the Standard Bank
ever doing any good. And there is such a possibility.
Heaven may send down a shower of new and wealthy
depositors who will place their thousands in the concern
for 50 years at a nominal rate of interest. Or perhaps
the old depositors will all die before their reconstructed
money falls due, and leave their executors to forget all
about it.
# # *
Theory of the “cover-it-up ” gang was feebly
raised in the grand-jury room when the accusers of Davies
and Millidge were under examination. One of the 23
jurors is said to have suggested to witness Simpson that a
Mercantile Bank prosecution was inadvisable, because the
issue of false balance-sheets had been common amongst
banks. Simpson crushed this person by reminding him
that he—the grand juror—was now asked to assist in sup-
pressing the prevalent evil. At Past Simpson crushed his
miserable argument, even if he didn’t prevent the gentle-
man from being one of the unknown couple who ulti-
mately voted in favour of “No bill.” The second “No
bill ” voter is supposed to have been the juror who
opposed the “ persecution ” of Davies and Millidge on
the ground that they were being made " scapegoats ”
for others.
» « •
The Pall Mall says that the Australian cable-
liar, lying about the position of reconstructing banks, is
a disgrace to present-day intelligence—“ The British
depositor has by this time learned to see in every such
cable an attempt to deceive him, with the result that
even well-founded information is treated with discredit.”
# # *
Commercial morality. Send the miss-
ing word to any big commercial or financial Institution in
Collins-street East or West. Transferable reconstructed
bank-shares will, no doubt, be forwarded to successful
solvers.
« * *
The mercantile community is surprised to
learn that a “ merchant prince,” who was one of the
prime movers of the reconstruction scheme on which a
very big bank re-opened, was fortunate enough to sell to
one of his employes the great bulk of his shares in that
institution prior to its collapse.
« * *
The dummy is disappearing in favour of that
valuable bird, the decoy-duck. The latter, like the
former, must have a good name. By arrangement with
the manager of the bank that is about to burst, the decoy
freely buys the bank’s shares. When the crash comes,
the duck becomes the foremost orator to appeal to the
genuine shareholder to reconstruct. He uses the voting
power conferred by his “arranged” shares for all it is
worth in the hank’s favour, and when the bank recon-
structs—well, that’s quite another story.
» # *
Owing to recent events, risks on the business-
premises of gentlemen from Boland and thereabouts have
become enormously popular with the fire-insurance co.’s.
# # #
One of the maddest men in Melbourne is the
possessor of a £25 4s. lid. “ current account,” at the
National Bank. Finding, the other morning, that the
Naiional was resuming business, he went for bis money.
A facetious clerk suggested that the odd 4s. lid. was a hit
of bad luck for the customer. “If it had been £25
exactly you could have had it,” said the clerk, “ hut the
odd money puts you over the line, and so yon can’t draw
anything at all.” “D—nit! I’ll make the bank a pre-
sent of the 4s. lid.,” howled the man. The clerk shook
his head and handed over a paper for the infuriated
wretch to sign. He was “ reconstructed,” all along of a
miserable 59 pence.
# * #
In the day of calamity Sydney D.T. calls upon
the Broken Hill miners to be magnanimous “By profit-
sharing on the output, based on the reduced value of the
product, the burden of depreciation would be borne in
just proportion by both parties to the arrangement.” It’s
always the sarin —the hired toiler is never asked to share
in the boom receipts, but he is expected to share thank-
fully in the bursting losses.
# # #
Did any capitalistic paper ever pen a sentence
like this?—“By profit-sharing on the output, adjusted
periodically on the falling or rising values of the product,
both owners and workers would grow rich or stand still
together, while wages could be maintained at an unfailing
standard, and a contingencies fund created that would
weather most possibilities.” Never !
# # •
The Fat Man isn’t built that way. He scoops
in all the golden showers. “My money done it,” he
says. When the frost comes—“ I must lower your wages ;
look what I’m a-losin’ ! ” Or he calmly gets a Fat
Man Government to assist him by granting labour-exemp-
tions, and he closes his mine—which was never his, except
by guile, the guile having been endorsed by his partner,
the Government.
# * *
The Fat Man calls a silver crisis—“ an Act of
God;” and a strike for decent wages and livable condi-
tions of work, “the obstinacy of the common people.”
In the coming revolution the Fat Man will die of fishbone
in the throat.
# # *
Wages in Australia are fast on their way to
£1 4s. a week. In fact, they have, in a lot of cases, more
than got there already.
* # •
When silver fell to 3s. 3d. an oz., newspaper
men interviewed the great Australian authority on the
subject—Manager Howell, of Broken Hill. He was sorry,
but not surprised ; confident, if not cheerful. It would
mean that many low-grade mines would close, and would
then cause silver to firm. Anyhow, the Proprietary could
work at a profit even if silver fell to 2s. fid. When it
slumped to 2s. 7d., Howell again came up smiling with
the assurance that the mine can be worked at 2s. The
silver mine of the world will probably continue to pour
out its ton of silver every day ; lint should silver stand at,
say, 2s. 6d., nearly every other Australian mine now at
work will go to sleep.
* • #
The Broken Hill Proprietary is the greatest
silver mine in the world. In 18S7, its silver cost 2s. 2d.
an oz. to produce, and last year it cost Is. Bd. Its lead
cost per pound a little over Id. in 1887, aud now it costs
about a halfpenny.
# * *
The second largest silver mine, in point of out-
put, is the Hnanohaoa, of Bolivia. Its silver costs Is. 9d.
an oz. to produce, and its output is nearly 7,000,0000z5.
per year. In 15 years it has paid over £3,000,000 dividends
and has returned over £10,000,000 of silver. Its president
lately said that, anticipating further decrease in silver
value, the owners were arranging to work at a profit even
if silver tell to Is. 9d.
« • #
The writer has always thought Mt. Allen good-
looking. Last crushing, 228 loads, 228 J ozs. gold.
Should the body continue as consistent some big returns
should come from this mine when the 20 heads are
cunning.
* • •
Recent assays show that Block 10 sulphide ore
at 815 ft. is little less intractable than that in the higher
levels of the zinciferous zone. A satisfactory feature is,
however, that the gold has increased from something like
a grain to 2dwts. per ton, which is a shove forward for the
theory of many metallurgists, that the gold contents of
the Broken Hill lode will show a marked increase as depth
is attained.
• * •
The last crushing 1 of the Star of the East, Balla-
rat— 1993 tons for 10230 z. of gold. It has two batteries of
60 head and one of 20 head.
* # •
Crushings have re commenced at the True Blue
goldmine, Croydon (Q.) The latest:—“4o tons yielded
660 z. smelted gold, mostly from mullock.” Hitherto the
reports from the mine have been “mostly mullock.”
« # *
Until the rumour has been more definitely con-
firmed the writer is disinclined to believe that OOOOozs. of
gold was got from 4£ tons from B iyley’s Kevvavd Claim,
W.A. Only a few weeks ago it was stated that a big
crushing took place there.
• # •
British Broken Hill’s shut-down has thrown 500
men out of work. What price now Sunny Corners, Mt.
Stewarts, et hoc genus ?
* m «
The British (Broken Hill) ore which, though
smelted at the mine at a loss, was hitherto marketable
from its fluxing properties, will be unsaleable at the
present price of silver. The directois recently practically
came to the conclusion, after anxious thought, that the
suspension of smelting operations and the sale of the ore
were the only alternatives to shutting down the mine—
which lias ceased operations.
* m *
The figures of the first and highly satisfactory
assay of Block 10, 815 ft. lode material, obtained, it is said,
not from the manager, were published in the daily papers
a day before similar figures supplied to the directors were
made public. The official wrath on discovery that said
figures were public property was, it is said, awful to
witness. Also, sundry pressmen, subsequently desirous
of personally inspecting the development in the mine,
were peremptorily ordered of? the property. Which, if
true, explains- quite a lot of things.
*■ # #
A general tax should either be put on N.S.W,
gold-production or the existing one taken off. Under
the N.S. W. leasing system the rental of £1 an acre covers
everything, but where gold is worked on freehold or
other lands not open to leasing, a gross royalty of 2s. an
oz. is imposed. Both are anomalies. Thus: Baker’s
Creek, during six years, has returned much over 100,000
oz. of gold, and about £205,000 dividends—for which it
has paid a little over £lOO to the Crown. The English
Co., working the Wentworth Freehold, has during the
last year paid over 20 times £lOO for royalty. As all gold
is reserved by the State, why should there be a royalty
in one place and none in another? Another striking
illustration—the Sunlight mine, within a quarter of a mile
from Baker’s Creek, is a mineral conditional purchase,
and although it has never paid a dividend it has yielded
the Crown, as royalty, 13 times as much as its rich
dividend-paying neighbour by way of lease. Abolish the
royalty and substitute a dividend-tax !
• # •
An elegant assortment of “wires” sent by a
Melbourne legal manager to a mining manager, and pro-
duced in the course of a law case, last week ;
“Jan. 23,1893.—Wire news any further developments
water crushing. Keep things alive.”
“Jan. 24,1893.—Telegraph any further encouragement,
help greatly stirring shares come forward.”
“ Jan. 25, 1893.—Crush speedy possible; finances come
right; large remittance next Tuesday'; wire encourage-
ment.”
“Jan. 25,1893.—Telegraph encouraging news, separate
wire from other "
“Jan. 27,1893.—Telegraph encouraging report re water
crushing levels ; great success follow,”
“ Feb. 7,1893.—50 me enthusiasm in reply would just
revive and means success.”
“ Feb. 7, 1893.—Wire report for publication. Assist me
getting shareholders come forward."
And yet people who were never down a mine in their
life, will read and take notice of managers’ reports, and
will speculate in mining shares.
# # #
At Ballarat, more than any other place, in the
world, mines were rich in alluvial leads, which subse-
quently became rich as quartz-mines. At the Band and
Albion 549,551 ozs. were obtained from the alluvial up to
1879, when it commenc'd to work a quartz reef found in
the bedrock, from which over 160,000 ozs. of gold have
been taken. Altogether it has turned out over two and a
half millions in gold, and one and a half millions in divi-
dends.
# * *
The old alluvial diggings throughout Australia
are being fossicked as they never were fossicked before.
Thousands of diggers are prospecting for want of better
employment. Of course they won’t average wages, but
a few big nuggets, rich patches, and pockets will be
found for a certainty. At Woods Point, Vic., last week,
one man got 250 ozs. in haif-an-hour. Remembering the
character of the old Woods Point diggings, it would be
safe to say that he is not likely to get another 250 ozs. in
half a year.
# # #
The average price paid for public crushing, on
Ballarat and Bendigo, is ss. a ton. Five-head batteries
can be hired from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per hour. At ss. a ton
20-head of stamps will return about 50 per cent, profit.
In N.S.W. the average cost is over 10s., chiefly because
batteries are not only small but the heads are, as a rule,
ridiculously light.
* # #
A stamper-head weighing lOOOlbs. will do twice
the work of one weighing 7001h5., while the additional
lifting power needed is slight. Nearly all the .new. Vie.
batteries have the heavy head. Those in use in N.S.W.
are generally light and made in very old patterns. The
idea that a light head is better for saving gold is rapidly
dying out.
« # #
Some miners have had some hard luck at
Trunkev, N.S.W. They struck a reef which showed good
gold, but they were beaten out by water. By baling
night and day they managed to get out three tons quartz
with a few very fine specimens taken from a stringer near
the reef. They are now waiting for some one to come
along with a steam-pump.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 21.)
At the initial meeting of “ Australasian
Federation League,” at Sydney Town Hall on
Monday evening last, at least two-thirds of the
(say) two thousand people present voted for an
amendment declaring that no system of Federa-
tion would be desirable which was not based on
complete independence, accompanied by equality
of voting, land nationalisation and the substitu-
tion of the Referendum for the second-chamber
system. Much of the disorder which characterised
the meetinar was due to Mayor Manning’s primary
determination, as chairman, to refuse the amend-
ment. An attempt has been made to discount the
feeling of the audience by stating that it did not
represent the sentiments of the people who stayed
away. If that be true it is simply another proof
of tiie indifference with which “Federation under
the Crown ” is regarded by those who are not
opposed to it.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


VW\S
J fcw.g-
G-o to HELL-
IQOLAND for Pretty Stamps. \Ve
Sell the Set of 14, inrused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List*of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.VV
ijJosf
Krsohoint jeden Sonnabcnd in Sydney. Preis 3u'.
Jiu haben bei alien Zeitung's-Ag'cnten.
Abonnement 10 sli. jiihrlich direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing Office, 26Hunter Str., Sydney.
DO YOU SUFFER
from
LIVER COMPLAINT,
' INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
HEARTBURN,
FLATULENCE,
Or any symptoms of a disordered digestive
apparatus? If so, there is no remedy in the
world so safe and sure to give relief as Fletcher’s
Pills and Clements Tonic. Don’t be misled into
wasting time and money on any of the “All-
failing” nostrums so speciously advertised by
designingquacks and dishonestrogues. Remember,
these two remedies have stood the test of time,
that their merits are proved, and that a few
shillings invested on them may save you weeks
and months of suffering, and, perhaps, pounds of
expense, for they have done so in hundreds of
cases, and we will send you evidence to prove our
assertions on receipt of your name and address.
Remember, delay is dangerous, and that every
hour you neglect your case the complication in-
creases and a cure becomes more difficult. Shun
the cheap quack doctors and designing nostrum
compounders ; stick to the remedies Clements
Tonic and Fletcher’s Pills. They are absolutely
genuine, and have proved sheir efficacy in hun-
dreds of cases and will do so every time. They
are sold everywhere and made oidv by F. M
Clements, Newtown, Sydney.
Personal Items.
*‘ Monty ” Loftus has been appointed
British Consul in Madrid.
Yet another Vic. legal dignitary, Judge
Casey, now publicly pedals his cycle.
S.A. Register was 57 years old on 18th
June. A son of its first proprietor is now in
possession.
J. Hi Angas, M.L.C., of Adelaide, has
given 42500 a year for 20 years to Dr. Barnardo’s
Homes, London.
Spagnolebti j “There are nine religions in
the Victorian Cabinet. 1. Patterson, Methodist,
2- .” G’long !
The favourite scriptural text of Mr. Deasy,
of N.S.W. love-letter and other celebrity, “Better
marry than burn.”
The daily cost of the Speight v. Age libel
action is a minimum of 42350, and it is anticipated
that the case will last 50 days.
Lord Hopetoun has presented the hunter,
brought with him from England, to Miss Wat-
son, daughter of the veteran George.
Last week Anglican Primate Smith, on
the anniversary of his consecration, appointed six
clergymen chaplains to himself !
Says the editor of Bathurst Advocate :
“ Talk about turnips ! If anybody wants to see a
turnip, just let him step into this office.”
According to Mudgee Guardian, Mr. J.
C. Ryrie (with 42130.000) was the largest depositor
in the Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
The cablegram to the Governor of Ceylon
announcing the grand jury’s finding, began,
4 ‘ Please request Davies to return to Victoria.”
In his marriage announcement in the
Argus, a proud bridegroom informs the public
that his spouse is “sister to the Gippsland Fat
Family.”
The Duke of York is an inch or so shorter
than his May, and his disposition is said to be
“ naturally pious.” This is not a promising out-
look for May.
The Duke of York, although not seriously
indisposed, “ has been advised to remain quietly
atJSandringham until his wedding day ” (July 6).
No last bachelor supper.
John Burns says there is no foundation
for the Australian daily press cablegram that he
intends lecturing here in September, as he can-
not leave England this year.
Robert Louis Stevenson seems to “have a
loan” of Sydney D.T. The local Herald, per-
haps as a consequence, looks icily on his frenzied
struggle for constant advt.
Prince George of Wales is “resting”
before his marriage. Reculer pour mime sauter!
“ The Prince is not well, but nothing serious is the
matter.” Happily, 42 42 Smith is in England.
Premier Kingston, with all his frailties,
was brought up with the greatest strictness, and
was originally intended for nothing less than an
archbishop by pious old Speaker George Kingston.
Murderer Bertrand, during his 27 years’
gaol, has tried nearly all the Christian religions,
but lias returned to his original faith, the Hebrew.
Which points a moral to the society for converting
the Jews.
Four members of the Kingston (S.A.)
Ministry are of the same age, 43—Kingston,
Gordon, Holder, and Cockburn —just the time
when men do their best work. Playford is 50,
Gillen 35.
Some 20 turkeys which were being
fattened for a feast were stolen, one night last
week, out of the fowl-house, at Annandale, of
Henry Parkes, saviour of his country. That
bread less ’Ome !
A Dublin hatter advertises that he supplies
Cardinal Moran, of Sydney. This is, perhaps,
why the P.F. Card. Moran once, in public, evaded
Minister Slattery’s attempt to get him to say he
was a Protectionist.
The Argus man, at the re-opening of the
Victorian Parliament, considered that Lord Hope-
toun read his speech in “a most creditable
manner.” Whether the Earl deserved special
praise for being able to read at all, or for the
banjo-twang of his delivery, wasn’t stated in the
notice.
The Princess of Wales
(writes a London gossip to
The Bulletin) will probably
return to the Continent after
the wedding of the Duke
of York, unless her august
hubby is pleased to reform
in a certain definite direc-
tion. The Princess is suffer-
ing very much from depres-
sion of spirits, caused, first,
by the death of the Duke of
Clarence, to whom she was
deeply attached, and, more
recently, that of her valued
friend, Colonel Oliver Mon-
tagu.
Liliuokalani, Princess
of Hawaii, is residing at
Burton Latimer, Northamp-
tonshire (Eng.), with an
elderly lady companion.”
The “ elderly lady com-
panion ” will amuse Hono-
lulu people. Years ago,
when a certain handsome
Hawaiian queen entertained,
with her bevy of beauties, an
English Admiral and his offi-
cers at her palace for a week,
she asked him to “be sure
and bring the ship’s doctors
with him.”
Madame Antoinette Sterling’s husband,
who was left behind in Adelaide, has been busily
engaged in dying during his wife’s absence. It
seems impossible, says a correspondent, for him to
last more than a few weeks more.
The husbands of the two fashionable Mel-
bourne corseti&res are both chefs dc cuisine. One
tightens the outside and the other the inside. The
irresistible encounters the immovable. Between
them, they must kill a lot of women.
Cardinal Moran has such decided teetota
leanings that he likes thin, pale priests, even if
they are not abstainers. All the R.C. clergy at
iSydney Cathedral and the city churches, and all
the men in power in the diocese, answer this des-
cription.
Modern Society says that the Australian
cavalry, at the Imperial Institute opening, looked
“merely like a well-disciplined and quaintly-
costumed corps de ballet. They seemed as if they
had come from the Alhambra instead of the
Antipodes,”
To do Premier Dibbs justice, he is at heart
rather ashamed of his title. When reference to
his bebaublement is made in Parliament he hangs
his head, this subdued attitude being varied by
an occasional burst of frenzy when the badgering
becomes too severe.
London Daily Chronicle reports that at
a Home Rule demonstration in Hyde Park a
speaker asserted that Australia was in favour of
Home Rule, and that the Mayor of Sydney and
“ Mr. Slettery ” had sent messages to that effect.
Slettery ! By the Sacred Kangaroo !
Sarah Bernhardt has had her jewels
stclen :
Alas ! have people then grown cold
To her upon the stage ?
She’s lost not precious stones or gold ;
We know the thief—’tis Age.
Lord Augustus Loftus is reading the proofs
of his second series of “Reminiscences,” which
date up to 1879, His Australian experiences will
form the subject of a third part, and should excite
a good deal of interest here. Of course, every-
thing depends upon how the old diplomat chooses
to let people down.
William Beach, ex-oarsman, has bought,
from Dr. Harman Tarrant, Yullah estate, near
Lake Illawarra, N.S.W., for JJ4400. May the
ex-champion prosper ! It is a treat for the world
to see a great professional athlete settle down to
honest, healthy farming, instead of cultivating a
bottle-nose as a “popular” publican.
Fiji people will remember George Ruthven
Le Hunte, who was private-secretary to their first
Governor. He is now President of the Island of
Dominica, and fame has come to him in connection
with the killing, by a man-of-war, of four
Dominican peasants who refused to pay rent.
The amount sought to be collected was 14s. fid.
Alfred Austin (a would-be poet-laureate),
writing on the death of the Duke of Clarence, said
that the Princess May was for ever “doomedjto
wear the mockery of widowhood about her maiden
hair.” Now (a year afterwards) he says that the
lady has mourned too long ! How nimbly these
fleas do skip to be sure ! —remarks an English
paper.
Admiral Erskine, recently named as Tryon’s
successor in command of the Mediterranean fleet, is
a determined opponent of the recruiting of South
Sea labour for Queensland. He, of course, regards
the matter from the naval officer point of view—
the injury done to the nigger. English admirals
don’t care a rap about the injury done to the
white labourer.
One day, in the Yic. Supreme Court, years
ago, a case was being heard in which two parties
had made wills in one another’s favour. “ Tom ”
A’Beckett and Hickman Moles worth were counsel
in the case. “ Let us make wills like that, Tom,”
said Molesworth. Tom didn’t see it. Since then,
A’Beckett has become a Supreme Court Judge at
423000 a year, and Molesworth presides over the
Insolvency Court at half the figure.
Prof. Anderson Stuart, of Sydney Univer-
sity, cultivates some scientific fads. He thinks,
for instance, that stockings should be made with
a separate compartment for the big toe. He also
argues that a man who has good brains almost
always has good calves. (Has this rule a feminine
application ?) So long as the illustrations are
confined to an aborigine and the professor the
argument must be admitted to be irrefragable.
They tell a yarn in Colombo about a
certain diminutive Australian cricketer noted for
a high average in cricket—and cheek. A few
members of a former Australian eleven, while at
Ceylon, paid a visit of respect to the Egyptian
hero, Arabi, who received them with his invariable
courtesy. All went well until the “diminutive
one” started “chyacking” Arabi with senseless
chaff about “the licking we gave him.” The old
man gravely refused to converse further, and
directed his servants to see the visitors safely off
the premises, retiring himself to count his spoons.
% Aftu^r
\
(pßO!se«,
FACES FROM MILLER’S POINT.
The men, said to be of the Miller’s Point “push,”
arrested in connection with the death of Thomas Pert.
Ever since the death of the Duke of
Clarence (says The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent) we have been told that although he was
affianced to Princess May that young lady was all
the time deeply in love witli his brother George.
One can hardly believe this, for it is a matter of
common observation that since her engagement to
the latter she wears an air of, if not quite “settled
melancholy,”at all events anything but happiness.
This was specially marked at the opening of the
Imperial Institute, where the fiances walked side
by side in the royal procession. In fact, so far
from looking the happy couple they are repre-
sented to be, it was remarked that they hardly
addressed a word to each other, and that they
both looked extremely bored. Perhaps this is the
way among royal lovers, for at Court it is posi-
tively bad form to behave as common people do.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
R- H. Francis, the present Chairman of
Victorian Rail way Commissioners, cut a very
unbnlhant figure as a witness in support of the
Age’s case against his predecessor, Speight.
Under cross-examination he got into such a state
of perplexity concerning some of his own asser-
tions that lawyer Duffy was able to ask, with
some show of force, “Do you know anything, or
are you a mere dummy ?” This was after Francis
had spoken of a two hundred per cent, reduction
being made on railway tickets for the School of
Mines. A 200 per cent, reduction was too much
for the Court’s gravity. At that rate, the scholars
would have to travel free and receive the price of
their fares for bonus.
The Countess of St. Germans has issued a
begging letter to “the women and ladies” of
Cornwall to purchase a wedding gift for the bride
of the Duke of Cornwall’s (Wales’) son. An
English paper hereupon remarks that the im-
pulsive snobbishness of English men and women
is unrestrainable.
Ifc is well that
M. do more talk-
ing than writing if
this piece of litera-
ture, signed by a
N. member and
copied from a visitors’
book in a Hawkes-
bury hotel, is any
guide to the ortho-
graphy of Macquarie-
street: “ The accomo-
dation splendid,
everything verry clean
combined with good
attendene. Thomas
, M.P.”
Even Pilcher,
Q.C., subdues his
legal roar in the court
of Judge Windeyer,
Before Darley, Fos-
ter, Owen, and the
others, the bigwigs of
the N.S.W. Bar may
all put on a brazen
front of obstinate ac-
curacy in their pre-
sentment of the law,
but when the eye of
W i nde ye r shines
down on them, the
situation becomes at
once one of “ May it
please your Honor,
humbly.” It is
refreshing to a litigant
who has been bully-
ragged by one of these
potentates to take a
seat in Judge Win-
deyer’s court and lis-
ten to the same bravos
being snubbed and
snarled and snapped at
by the barrackroom-
mannered Judge.
Dear Bulletin, —Your account of a recent
Melbourne Rotunda type-setting_ contest recalls to
me one which took place about ’52, at Melbourne
Argus “old” office, behind the Shakespeare
Hotel, between Tommy Burgess (Cornstalk) and
Pearce (Gumsucker). The price then was 2s.
fid. a thousand, and each scored his £22 odd. Alas
for the days that are no more ! Auctioneer Stubbs,
if his “ads.” were sent in late, used to give us
carte blanche to send round to the Queen’s I
don’t remember whether ’twas the Queen’s Arms
or the Queen’s Head ! —in Queen-street, and say
“Stubbs!” Which meant refreshments without
limit! Josiah Frencham was maker-up of the
Argus then, and handsome Fred. Blackham was a
corap. Many a time have I, in company with
Fred, led the afterwards great wicketkeeper (then
a toddler) about Old Melbourne and Collingwood
of a Sunday morning. I was a London lad, and,
the day after lauding (Oct,, ’62), I got a job, my
first work being to run backwards and forwards
between the old office and the one then in course
of erection in Collins-street with proofs and
revises; presently being promoted to the reading-
room, under Butterfield. The treat I used to have
waiting for Edward Wilson’s leaders (“Unlock
the Lands !”), while listening to Madame Tester
and Sarah Flower in the “ Mechanics’ ” opposite !
I hope some of the old ones who may see this will
be as pleased as I am in reviving ancient recollec-
tions.—Yours, F. B. Waters, Greymouth, M.L.
Highest measured Australian tree, 415 ft.
“ I am paid 30 dollars a week to keep the
truth out of the paper. ” —American Journalist.
In criticising Maclaren Cobban’s new
novel, a London paper says Comparisons are
odious, and therefore we will not say that in ‘The
Red Sultan ’ Mr. Stevenson’s ‘ Kidnapped ’ has
found its superior, but wo will say that it has
found a worthy peer.” This is qualified praise.
Beyond two absolutely enthralling chapters in the
first part, “Kidnapped” is a monotonous record
of savage Highland scenery plastered over with
cruel patches of Scotch dialect.
Editor Bulletin, —A piece of back-talk
f or y OUi Anyone can be an Englishman. You
, , . ~ . „ e . ,
have onl y to wear s P ats 011 y° ur feet > and a
window-pane in your eye, and say “ awfully jolly,
don’t-cher-know.”— An Australian.
_ , , o _ , _ ~ , ....
Harland & Co., of Belfast, are building,
for the White Star Go., the Gigantic—a steamer
700 ft. long, or 20ft. more than the Great Eastern,
The latter had engines of only 7650 horse-power ;
the Gigantic’s are to be of 45,000 h.p., and she is
to run 27 knots. She will have 15,000 more h.p.
than the latest Cunarder.
The egg . bald Bishop Thornton, of Balia-
rat, appeared on the platform to back up Premier
Patterson on the occasion of the latter’s visit to
the Garden City, but the meeting would not
listen to him. It told him to get his hair cut—
which dreadful blasphemy utterly paralysed Rev.
Mr. Ballarat, who collapsed and sat back in
frozen horror for the rest of the evening.
>
MORE ENVY.
POLICEMAN : “What are you doing?”
Hungry Unemployed (who has slept out all night in the Park) ;
“Well, I’m meditatin’. You see, they filled a man up with steak
and onions and ’am and eggs in the gaol this morning, and
he’d got his stomach full they ’ung ’im.”
At Hobart lately two cowardly roughs
were fined 60s. each for savagely assaulting a
policeman, the injured man having to be carried
into court to give evidence ! About the same
time a boy was fined a similar amount for
“assaulting” the son of a “Warden” of one of
the country townships, the charge arising from a
boyish quarrel and a fight in which the Warden’s
son was worsted. Unable to pay the fine, the lad
—son of a poor workman—was sent to Hobart
Gaol.
None of your monotonous phrases about
the Ounnamulla (N.S.W.) stock agent’s report :
Cunnamulla, May 26.
Weather.— Nothing could be more obstinately un-
promising nor incorrigibly dry. There is nothing
variable or undecided about this climate—it does
everything in the superlative degree always,
and has no medium whatever. The country is
drought - stricken, the weather hopeless, water fail-
ing, stock dying, prices low, roads barren, banks sus-
pended, rabbits increasing, and the general outlook
gloomy enough to convince even a labour delegate that
the haughty and purseproud squatter of Queensland does
not stand on a pinnacle far above the chances and changes
which beset ordinary mortals.
According to an American paper—which
is probably not telling the truth—some weird
documents have just been found among the papers
of a recently deceased Nashville doctor. Twenty-
eight years ago, the wife of an Episcopal parson
died from some unaccountable complaint, and
seven days later her husband disappeared and was
never again heard of. It now appears that the
doctor had an irresistible yearning to dissect the
deceased lady and find out what she died of.
When the yearning became a little more irre-
sistible than usual he went one night to her grave
and dug her up. Just as he had got her out the
husband appeared, and the doctor, seeing ruin
staring him in the face, brained him with the
spade, and shoved his remains into the grave.
When he had carried the lady home and dissected
her he planted her in his cellar. Then he adopted
the two infant children of the dead man, and
brought them up as his own, and they reverenced
him as a father. If George Darrell" would only
make a drama out of this story it ought to boom.
Fry’s Malted Cocoa is exactly what it is
claimed to be—absolutely pure cocoa and extract
of malt. The Lancet endorses this, and adds,
“We wish we could say as much for every popular
article of diet.” Nothing succeeds like success.
During the past half-year, in spite of the depres-
sion, the sales increased by one-third.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal AroadLe, Sydney.
Messrs. Charlemont specially commend their
PhATIXOTY PE PORTRAITS
go account of their being so PERFECTLY
PERMANENT.
£8 BACH £8
Balky Estate f Manly Beach.
Allotments, £& Each.
10/- Deposit. 5/- Monthly. No Interest.
FREE DEEDS (free of all costs) to Purchasers who
up in One Year from day of sale.,
Messrs. STEPHEN & ICKEKSON, Solicitors
8C Pitt Street, Sydney.
pay
par cent. DISCOUNT for CASH. ia
A Good Spec, for Surplus Savings.
Deeds can be made out in names of Wife or Children
Postage Stamps taken for Deposits and Instalments. No
forfeiture if buyers are unable to keep up payments
through sickness or want of emplot ment.
Plans from I;, f. V. HICOM.IIION. ;JOI Pin Street,
*S.\ 'lik'v, I' i*cu nans #ent to {in v arMrc.?s.
“The Bulletin’s’’ Missing 1
Word Competition.—Ho. 4.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon —which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the totai
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within three weeks from Saturday, Juno 17,
1893. Should any coupon other than tliis be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
As no one succeeded in naming the missing-
word in No 3 Competition, the whole of the cash
received ,(<£49 45.) will be added to this Com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded bv
Post-officd order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to lie
added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 4.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
fonvard coupon with One Shilling, or IS penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney, ’
in time to he received by Saturday, Bth July,
1893.
The Burra Burra (N.S.W.) rush has been
pronounced a duffer. Hundreds of men who rushed
there because of the sensational newspaper descrip-
tions, had to beg their way back. Pitiable stories
of hardships bordering on starvation are told, and
some newspapers have been roundly cursed for
their * It is one of
the easiest things in the world to start a gold rush
when there are thousands of half-starved men in
the country.
Name
Address
Missing Word
, The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received— deduction whatever
being MADE. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
. N.B,—Every precaution lias been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
AGRICULTURAL
AM)
IVriLLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES.
STEAM PUMPS, &(.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES A BUGGIES'
William Fleming,
22 & 21 Clarkkck Struct,
ADVT
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing- Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,
strata. "WILLIAM M
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
ADVT
POLITICAL POINTS
The Bogong Man—lkey Isaacs.
Deakin announces a bill to introduce the
Referendum into Victoria.
The irony of fate—Gladstone gagging Bal-
our with the Tory cloture.
In Westralia, white men are now working
under Indian and Afghan bosses.
Last year 315 Kanakas died in Banana-
land, which now has 7959 South Sea slaves within
its boundaries.
Bromley’s socialistic scheme of village set-
tlement for families with <£lo capital is being
tried in Gippsland,
The Victorian deficiency is a little over
£2,700,000. Next year it promisesjfairly well to
reach £8.300,000.
Labour restrictions only prevented the
able and popular Charleston, M.L.0., from join-
ing Kingston’s Ministry.
Patterson and Co. are said to contemplate
dispensing with Railway Commissioners and
returning to political patronage.
The man of small brain, or no brain, who
apes the public platform always selects the
“accursed drink ” as his topic.
Downer has christened the new S.A.
Cabinet “ the Macbeth Ministry ” probably
because Kingston murdered his sleep.
John Haynes, M.L.A., takes particular
pains to number all the friends of Cardinal Moran
whose names figure on the testimonial to Dibbs.
Henry Ayers, now President of S.A. Legis-
lative Council, holds an easy Ministerial record.
He was Chief Secretary ten times between ’64
and ’77 !
Proposed to abolish the S.A. Legislative
Council Chairmanship of Committees. The pre-
sent incumbent got £4OO for less than 40 hours’
work last session.
At last United States election about a
million electors gave their votes for candidates
who were pledged to the abolition of private
ownership of railways.
The average salary of the S.A. civil ser-
vant is £llB annually. Of 8400 persons em-
ployed, 7600 receive less than £2Ol a year, and
only 200 get more than £3Ol yearly.
Although a strong Democratic combina-
tion, there are two members of the new S.A.
Cabinet whom the Democracy does not quite
swallow whole. These are Gillen and Gordon.
S.A. will have £lBO,OOO deficit to the end
of June. Last financial year closed with £37,000
surplus. Hitherto Downer and Deficit and Play-
ford and Profits have alliteratively allied them-
selves.
Sydney D.T., as was to be expected,
attributes the N.S.W. Treasury deficits to the
curse of Protection. Well, the province has had
the freest of Frectrade in Jianks. Show us their
surpluses.
The Kingston (S.A.) policy has increased
that Government’s working majority to seven.
The Labour members do not expect much from
the present Parliament, but they look for a big
Democratic wave in 1896.
Henry Ayers, President (and a member
since ’57) of S.A. Legislative Council, talks of
resigning at the end of this year. In which case
Chaffey Baker will get the chair and the long-
yearned for bauble.
The English Cobden Club, which was to
convert all the world to Freetrade, is pretty
nearly on its last legs. The steadily-decreasing
membership is down to 366 at three guineas per
head annually, and the total funds are £7OO.
Nelson, Q. Treasurer, has put his foot
down. He will not include the Union Prisoners’
Assistance Fund in the list of trust-funds to be
released from the grip of the hung-up banks. “ A
fund to subsidise crime,” says Smythe, M.P.
Solomon, Downer’s (S.A.) whip, indig-
nantly describes the fatal motion for adjournment
as a “ ketch vote.” A Jack Ketch vote, he might
have said—though it was mispronunciation, and
not humour, which suggested the designation.
S.A, Advertiser supported Downer’s
National Ass crowd for all it was worth, but saw
its mistake. It is amusing to watch the meta-
morphosis now going on. In about a week the
politically barren Tiser will yell for Kingston.
Opponents of payment to members are
always prominent in booming “ public testi-
monials ’’ to insolvent politicians. Query for
Thrift ; Should the politician pauperised by a
“ grant ” or a “ testimonial ” be disfranchised ?
No Victorian legislator with a dangerous
land-boom record makes himself unpleasant to any
Government nowadays. For the Government is
the Crown. A prosecuting power doth shape the
beginning and ends of political opinion for the
nonce.
Fat man Zox asks the Vic. Premier “ if it
is the intention of Government to take any steps
to express the sympathy of the colony in the
approaching marriage of the Duke of York.”
With whom is the “colony” expected to sym-
pathise—George or May ?
A S.A. official return “discloses that
during the 12 months ending April last, 959
Chinese seamen reached Port Darwin from China,
and when the vessels returned from southern
ports the articles showed that the crews had
decreased to 543. 416 Chinamen unaccounted
for.”
Premier M‘llwraith (Q.), with Napoleonic
fatalism, has hurled the Jap. into the camp of the
Labour-party, and declared, after the manner of a
god, that the Jap. (who is landing 500 at a time)
has come to stay and has got to be swallowed,
this should be the Queensland Fat Man’s
Moscow.
The Yic. Premier “ notes with satisfaction
that defendant Davies is coming back voluntarily
and promptly by the R.M.S. Oroya,”—with a
detective at his elbow, ready to “scruff” him
back if need be I Does the fact of Patterson being
Premier justify him in regarding the electors as
blithering idiots ?
The only doubtful men on the side of the
majority which put Kingston, Q. 0., into office, in
b.A., have been provided for. Play ford is
Treasurer, and Jenkins is whip. All the rest are
genuine Liberals, and nothing short of a political
earthquake will shift the Ministry now it has been
safely got together.
Minister Suttor’s reduction of N.S.W.
State-school teachers’ salaries all round is inequit-
able in view of the fact that all other State ser-
vants were Parliamentarily divided, for purp >ses
of retrenchment, by the salary line of .£3OO. The
unauthorised scope of the reduction, not its
amount, is the material question.
°^ ie proposed Tory amendments on
t • CV me P’N was a proviso that the ancient
iiish language should not be taught in schools or
colleges—m other words, that it should be a pro-
hibited language. And yet when the Polish
language was prohibited in Poland, what a bowl
o. sympathy and execration went up from the
great heart of England !
Ebenezer
Ward is in Ade-
laide the cham-
pion of parlia-
mentary moral-
ity and tone, just
as John Davies
is _in Sydney.
This paragraph
will be utterly
wasted on those
who are not well
acquainted with
the career of at
least one of these
gentlemen.
The lately-
cabled assent to
an arbitration
policy in re dis-
agreements be-
tween Great
Britain and the
U.S., is the re-
sult mainly of
the pleading of
Wttliam Jones,
the Quaker, who
visited Austra-
lia a few years
ago and lectured
in Sydney, with
Parkes in the
chair. When
Cleveland was
formerly Presi-
dent, Jones went
to the States
with a petition
in favour of ar-
bitration signed
by 233 Ms. P, of
Great Britain,
He was then
entertained at
the White
House, and ere
he left extracted
from Cleveland
a promise which,
after many
years, seems to
have been ful-
filled. Jones is
backed up by
the whole of the
Peace Party, but
his individuality
counts for much
more than num-
bers, as was felt
during his briel
stay in Austra-
lia.
N.S.W. Treasurer See lately said that a
Crown Minister could get .£lOO,OOO in a year if he
chose to make commercial use of his official oppor-
tunities. The present writer was told exactly the
same thing by Francis Abigail when N.S.W.
Minister for Mines. The question is : Is such
talk merely Ministerial puff and blow ?
Hopetoun, emulating his Gracious Queen
at the Institute, was escorted to Parliament
House last week by a detachment of “ colonial ”-
made Baronet Clarke’s Horse Artillery. He com-
plimented the brave fellows on their soldierly
appearance-just like V.R. In secret, too, Hope-
toun was deeply touched by their loyalty.
When the Colonial Office consented to send
Sir W. Robinson to Melbourne as locum tenens for
Sir H. Loch, a condition was made that his wife
must accompany him. It is said that before the
Liberal party, in a certain Australian province,
would agree to the leadership of their present
chief a somewhat similar stipulation was made.
Ex-Premier Shiels still has full use of his
tongue. Attacking Patterson on the Isaacs epi-
sode The abuse which the Premier heaped on
his late colleague, especially the reference to that
gentleman’s nationality, was the sort of abuse
that should have been reserved by the Premier for
Irishmen, whom the hon. member loved so much.”
There is a strong feeling in S.A. in favour
of elective Ministries, and if the present Coalitton
had not been formed the chances arc that the
system would have received legislative recognition
during the existing Parliament. Five out of the
six Ministers now reigning would probably have
been chosen for the offices they now fill had the
Assembly voted as a whole on the subject.
Dear Bulletin, You say that Tom
Walker, M.P., “is considered to have the best
memory in the House.” An inconvenient posses-
sion in some ways for a politician—unless, of
course, it is a “convenient” possession. (This
paradox will work out in more ways than one.) Is
it necessary for a politician to have anything but
a facility for forgetting ?—-Yours, Mnemonics.
Queensland Parliament of Fat Men is
about to discontinue Hansard, the story of its
crimes. What could be more natural ? The bas-
tard millionaire of social aspirations would burn
the record of his illegitimacy. The ex-convict,
now a deacon, would mutilate the gaol-records if
he could. The daily press of Queensland is a
political bagnio. Suppress Hansard, and the
Devil will write the Scriptures.
Nat. Levi, whose failures as a newspaper-
promoter have been consistently gruesome, now
suggests a halfpenny newspaper-tax .for Victoria,
This idea has warmed the very soul of J. M.
Davies (Matthew’s brother), a gentleman who
might be expected to support a £5O-tax on every
periodical which hinted at bank prosecutions.
When you come to think about it, the laxity of
the Vic. Parliament in permitting any newspaper
(with the exception of the ’Erald) to be issued to
a suspicious public seems very reprehensible.
A N.S.W, Freetrade M.L.A. going home,
on June 18, angrily threw Sydney E. News on to
the floor of the tram. “Of all the papers in
Australia,” he growled, “the Star is the weakest
and stupidest.” “What ails it?” “Here,”
cried the irate M.P., picking up the sheet, “just
read that barefaced, cold-blooded Protectionist
leading article advocating that the public be
plundered for the benefit of the sugar-growers.”
“ But this is the Evening News,” observed the
other. “W-hat?” “Yes; see.” And it was.
Rev. Joseph Berry, just from Maoriland,
preaches to the propertied elect of Adelaide at
midday. “ Under Democracy,” Holy Joe tells the
Fat Man, “Judas Iscariot would-have a vote.
Jesus would have no more. This is what is meant
by universal suffrage ! ” Berry refuses to see that
Jesus, who “had not where to lay His head,”
would, in these times, be objected to by the
National Ass, and struck off as having no fixed
abode, whereas Judas, having invested his thirty
pieces of silver in land-values, would get a thrift
vote for both Houses and yell, with Ghaffey
Baker, for “rest and quiet.” Christ, killed 1000
AN HONEST THINKER.
“ Bay, Bill, ’ave yer ’eard the noose? Fitzdoodle’s been knighted.”
“Go [?]wne, what bank is he going to rob? "
years ago by the Jews, is again being slowly
assassinated by the bogus-Ohristian clergy.
Duncan Gillies will support the present
Victorian Ministry in a mild manner until there
is no more fear of Crown prosecution scandals.
Then Duncan, having avoided all contact with
the dirty banking business, like an artful old
soldier that he is, will lead an attack on the
Treasury benches, and probably win the day. The
country isn’t behind Gillies any more than it is at
the back of Patterson, so the strugle will go on
its parliamentary merits. And the Vic. Parlia-
ment has about as many merits as a diseased
porker.
Premier MTlwraith (Q.) tells the unem-
ployed that he can’t find them work because it
would attract other unemployed from adjacent
provinces and thus intensify the evil. Meanwhile
MTlwraith’s friend, Hume Black, is paid a big
salary to induce English immigrants to pour into
the country and intensify the same old evil.
Wouldn’t it be possible for the workers to hire a
man of vigour and eloquence to follow on Hume’s
trail, to lecture on the urgent necessity for keep-
ing away from Australia, and point out what a
grand country it is to be absent from just now ?
Dear Bulletin, —A brief experience of
Parliamentary life teaches me that every third
inhabitant of N.S, Wales is a crank with a patent
invention in his pocket for doing everything diffi-
cult—from shifting the rabbits off the land to
settling the people on it. “If the Government
would only take it up,” is the cry, “there’s a
fortune in it.” The worst of it is that the crank will
never trust his legislative victim far enough to
divulge the secret and allow him to pass judgment
thereon. An “ interview with the Governor” is
another common request, the belief apparently
being that every M.P. has a room at Government
House, and an unlimited influence over an
uninfluential, impotent, vice-regal figure-head.
There are now, I estimate, running loose in
N.S. Wales about 300,000 persons with 300,000
different schemes for settling the people on the
land—about the toughest job in the world. I only
know one M.P. who can hold his own with this
army of inventors T o’Sullivan. It is related of
Moltke that, sleeping peacefully in his bed one
morning, Bismarck and William burst in, ex-
claiming, “ War has been declared with Austria!”
“Oh,” said Moltke, “ very well Third portfolio
to the left, ’’ and, turning over, he went to sleep
again. So with O’Sullivan, who carries a different
scheme for the reconstruction of society in each
pocket, and when confronted by a crank, calmly
surveys his persecutor and exclaims—“Oh, yes:
but you’re too late. You’ll find a full plan and
every detail in the lining of my belltopper.
Yours, &0., Deficit.
A Queensland paper states that a fac
simile of a Treasury-note, published in a Brisbane
paper, was successfully paid away to a woman as
genuine.
No medicine is more conscientiously prepared,
more powerful, or more highly concentrated, than
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Its standard of excellence is
the result of careful study. The best blood
purifier.


Cor.fracf'af &)ng"?% ?7 f/ P
,hfr
"ioshc^
lAleulci
dp
;r*
FEDERATION
DART
WISE
p ,r
jrf*'
' Com
" ; 7 '*l
Jti \^M
l.e { 7
DID’SILVER
POUCiHT Hfllt:
2 * |?er j3oat)t(.
ft/'
V/
A
WB^m<
Wwwwzm.
At 5/ p *ls'^
>s
% %
mmm
||W sfiim
sg® r^uif
WmH
few
/ „ Co 'lotjfojl 'J
Af f’PMqtiiz.fd Py °7°^ '
& /■
*
WatitfTof fysfra//#, fazy
/kf/p yy Zfap/y£ ajrayj-/ a ;6as/~ "
CURRENT FACTS AND THEORIES.


jA. Political opinion.
Jia.o'k'hont. 7*it&vso-n -~1 You cr<xnk — comrrut"
ZD*. v~1e.% -f ot ia. I/ *' »»
7# &r, ct-cLixk fA*a.rv ct~orxK.
TEAITRI DC G .
poc;s not admitted
£ ur
CAT4 / ==::::: MADE.
v\/e lcome
HUM
-r- »t"1 kQ-
ti" A id do
lArru-Lo 1 „c,o a -
AGENT
/v V ,
X y to
cW
*7
yj/j/i iy+\£
\<y
N^VV/
•* dZrt
r i*s/T
>i o /
VI DRY-
There is every
likelihood of a short bill being introduced in
the Legislative Council next month to amend
the Gaols Act, authorising the visiting police
magistrate to order prisoners who commit
assaults on warders to be flogged when the
accompanying justices of the peace concuti
ih that being done. . ~ \yt\sr~
\\ *“’* C
/
/J,* * I
M
CA
, V\^ v -r VO**
%*
k
°< \
v •%
'/ A
Q|, ' V
ft? —
1 QjyflTER
'Warm-.Very' vVa r*r» _ls JX' 1 o \\
dUVer- in 1 V\l c K n e* s.
j
7? 5 ,v 5 'pfijg^s^ s
Mr.
Zox wishes to learn from the Premier if it is '
the intention ot the Government to take any
steps to express the sympathy of the
colony in the approaching marriage ot the Duke
of York to Princess May of Teck.
72 -e S
ins'-
COLOMBO, Junk 2>^.,
Sir Matthetv Davies against whons ch v *
grand jury in Melbourne has found a
true bill of indictment for conspiracy in
'connection with the Mercantile Bank,
sailed last night foi Australia by the
Orient Company’s RMS Oroya
Detective Whitney also ieft by thqj
same steamer.
Oil tilt bc> C\X~
D'eTectio'e Car*. I kclitV'f*.
h Vnjf lyu) 1 ?ir
V 0 tv iV h K(K'7 S.
p *tkoucfKT" of
I *\o' la. a. nov y> .*
■Tn<ixin<j lw IkU uray % \
IN MELBOURNE AND THEREABOUT.


FOR, SALE (Cheap).— Qnad-Demy Two-feeder
WHARFEDALE PRINTING PRESS, by
Dawson and Sons. In good order. Apply
Manager, tliMofiiee; or to John Close, Engineer,
B'J3 Kent-street, Sydney.
WOMAN'S SAIVAIION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. PORT. HERMANN,
Ihe great French Specialist. No medicines. His (.real iso
on “Woman’s Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope,
Upon application by letter to 361) COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE,
Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
JBIG each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
Society
Rev. Barton Parkes (blasphemous name—
the Barton before the Parkes!), of Charters
Towers :
“There is a want of humiliation and respectful
demeanour in the colonies amongst our workmen, and it
is extended to the young—a want of respect for those who
are in authority over us. This so-called independence of
which we brag, is really a want of humiliation and res-
pect. In England when I was a boy (and most of you
who have been in England will know it is so) we used to
raise our oips to the clergyman when we met him, or to
anyone who held an office of authority, as a mark of
respect. It was often said you could always tell a Church
of England hoy by his respectful demeanour.
In Australia, thank God, we never touch our
hat to anybody—except the gaol-warders.
# * #
The very best sensation connected with
the recent Miller’s Point (Sydney) alleged murder
is the local E. News’s story about a certain “ grey-
headed father” whocalledon a detective and “im-
plored him with tears to have his son hanged.” The
youth, apparently, had no connection with the
outrage, and he wasn’t wanted by the police for
anything, but the grey old parent wanted him
hanged on general or any other principles. The
News evidently considers this as pathos. There
was no joy in the old man’s life ; he was aged and
weak and poor, and the one thing which might
have shed a ray of light on his downward path—
the hanging of his son—was denied him. Whether
the evening paper regards the incident as an
evidence that fathers ought always to be allowed
to hang their sons or daughters so that every man
can have his own private execution in the coal-
shed ; or whether it views the affair as an evidence
of the weakness of the law because it hadn’t found
some excuse for doing the hanging itself; or
whether it simply considers it as a lamentable
circumstance for which there is no remedy, is not
explained. Anyhow, there are two sides to every
question, and if the son had carefully oiled his
bang and gone round, with teal’s in his eyes and
his hat balanced on his ear, to ask that the old
man should be hanged with all convenient speed,
perhaps it wouldn’t have looked quite so pathetic.
“The dance lately
given by Mrs. d’Arcy
(erst of Rockhamp-
ton), wife of the Aus-
tralian attorney-mil-
lionaire who pulled a
fortune out of Mount
Morgan mine, might,
remarks a London
paper, have served as
the text for an article
on “ Social Changes.”
Two years ago the
d’Arcys Were quite
Unknown to smart
society. On Friday
thei r ball was attend ed
by Lady Ilchester,
Lady William Nevill,
Lady Jane Taylor,
Lady Ellesmere, Lady
Boyne, Lady Temple,
and others of the
clotted cream of so-
ciety, who brought
their daughters or
other relations to
dance in the big new
red-brick corner-
house at the south-
west corner of Gros-
venor Square (the
proverbial haunt of
Australian million-
aires). There were
plenty of smart young
men, headed by Lord
Brackley, and the
whole thing was very
Well done. Mrs.
d’Arcy is a Mexican
lady, whose fondness
for big black pearls
and bigger turquoises
is usually plainly
visible across a room. ”
The paper quoted goes
on to remark that Mr.
Alex. Robertson (now
or formerly of Cobb
and Co.) also rented
a Grosvenor - square
house for the season,
but soon became
bored; —“He could
not see the merits of
the ' promoting ’ sys-
tem, which involves
spending large sums
for the benefit of
people who forget
their host immedi-
ately, don’t know him
AT KIRK’S BAZAAR, MELBOURNE.
(A leaf from an old sketch-book.)
OLD DICK: “You’re looking thin, Charlie.”
CHARLIE: “Same to you, Dick.”
OLD DICK : “Charlie, do you know, I orfin sit and wish I was a n’orse?”
again, and wonder
who he is when he comes to their houses m
return,” One thing becomes increasingly plain
—anyone with cash can yard up ninety-nine-hun-
dredths of the British “ aristocracy.”
# * •
While John Norton was addressing the
jury at Sydney Quarter Sessions re the charge of
larceny as a co-partner unsuccessfully brought by
his former colleague, Crick, he was overcome with
emotion, when a voice from the jury-box exclaimed,
“ Don't cry, old man, you’ve done no wrong
an incident which made the Judge “sit right up."
# # #
A Queensland aborigine got six months’
hard at Allmry, the other day, for indecent ex-
posure. He was brought from Far North by
drovers and stranded at Albury, and probably
thinks he is being punished for not wearing a
plug-hat.
* n • # #
Another 17 days’ adjournment of Speight
v. the Age.
Dear Bulletin. — l knew a girl who went
to New Caledonia as a barmaid. She was a kind
of girl who thought she knew what she had to ex-
pect down there, but not afraid. Not a bad-look-
ing girl, either. I saw her a year after. Just
returned from Noumea, a haggard, ghastly wreck.
I asked her how she liked the French. “The
French ! ” she replied, with a hiss like a steam
escape pipe, “the French ! They’re beasts.
Beasts! That’s what the French are.” And she
never seemed a demonstrative girl previously,
either. —Yours, Locust.
* # *
It is not generally known that a special
“ suite ” of cells is kept in the Hullsdorf prison,
Colombo, Ceylon, in readiness for distinguished
visitors from Australia. In these cells they are
entertained and fed on the identical curry
bestowed regularly on the peccant Tamil
or Cingalese (gentlemen of colour.) It is a
good curry, but when one has it from chota
hazzere to tiffin and from tiffin to chota hazzere it
becomes monotonous. To an epicure it goes for
nothing without a decent assortment of chutneys
and Bombay duck. It is time the Australian
Governments contributed towards a curry-fund
for eminent absconders. The local Parliaments
should cheerfully vote it, as in these times one
never knows what may happen. A certain fascin-
ating Tasmanian medico was about the last dis-
tinguished visitor to the Hullsdorf.
* *
We learn by comparison. The recent
visit of “great” singers convinces us that there
are in Australia, languishing in the obscurity of
mere local reports, hundreds of “ Queens of Song”
who can sing the heads off the visitor; and as to
tenors and baritones, why, a search through the
local lockups on an average Monday would reveal
scores of better tenors and baritones than our
visiting “ stars ” from Europe.
“ The Missionaries would go forth to preach the gospel
unto the ends of the earth.”— Rev. Berry, at Melb.
Missionary Conference. »
“ I discovered at one mission store, instead of Bibles,
several cases of beer, one case of Old Tom gin, two large
bags of shot, and eight boxes of percussion caps for
Enfield rifles.”— Government Recruiting Agent in the
South Seas. ( Vide report in recent Blue Books).
The preacher spoke—“Go, save them from their
sin,
To heathen lands the gladsome tidings carry,
’Mid savage hordes we’ve precious souls to win.
Go, save them thro’ the Spirit—yea, nor tarry.”
The heathen heard. He sought the Spirit—Gin,
Embraced Old Tom, and now he plays “ Old
Harry.”
# # *
At the United Missionary Conference in
Melb. last week, the Rev. Geo. Gibson, M.A.
(Age report):—
It was true that the Jesuit priests had no occasion to
brinq their wives up from the islands— (laughter)—and
that might account to some extent for their diligence at
their post.
Now, we want to hear the Jesuit version.
# # #
The N.S.W. Department of Public In-
struction is at last weeding out, with a view to
economy, the “Al” certificated lady teachers,
who have had for years the “ soft ” work of teach-
ing in the Infants’ Department at £3OO per
annum, and are now drafting them into the Girls’
Department. They are all married women. There
is an adage in the office of the Department to the
effect that all “Al ” certificated female teachers
get married —and stay in the service.
* * *
Victoria’s heart is “bleeding” over the
naval disaster, and her pocket this time bleeds a
little also. The regulation scale appears to be —
Her Majesty is much affected and sends .. .. £5
do do do deeply sorrowful and sends ~ £lO
do do do touched to the heart ~ .. £25
do do do weeps in sympathy ~ ... £5O
Her Majesty’s heart bleeds and sends .. £2OO
* » #
Why was that prominent Australian mili-
tary man “arrested?” Was it for neglecting
to appear promptly on parade, or for sneeringly
replying, “Thank you, sir!’ when his senior
directed his attention to some faults in the branch
of the service directly under the “prominent
military man’s ” control ?
* * #
The inevitable curly-tailed kangaroo, as
limned by the British artist, has turned up again
on the certificate of the Imperial Institute.
A lady writer on the
poetical subject of wedding
presents for the Duke of
York and partner, says, “To
my mind there is something
very nice in the idea that
everyone should help to ren-
der the new nest pretty for
the young couple.” And
there is something sweet in
the theory that each young
man about to marry should
have a house built for him
by public subscription. Why
doesn’t each parish strike a
“new nest’’-rate for the
benefit of the community at
large, and let everybody
start fair ? Also, how about
re-decorating the old nests
of royal widowers, when
they want to marry again ?
That’s another nice idea.
• # •
A dignified London
journal solemnly says that
Queen Victoria is averse to
the use of a State chair, even
in her own grounds, where
she is “usually drawn by
one of the Royal Jackasses.”
The Bulletin wonders if
“loyalty” has yet found
means of preventing the
donkey’s blood-curdling hee-
haw. The man who could
devise a means of making
Royal Neddy’s blare sound
harmonious should certainly
get aC.M.G.-ship. But, per-
haps, Victoria likes Neddy’s
blare. Who knows? She
adores the bagpipes.
# # *
Apropos a prevailing
society craze. “Oh ari ty un-
covers a multitude of skins.”
At a recent Melb. amateur show the lover’s
words in the book were “Accept the offering of
my love,” but, in his nervousness, he made it, not
catching the prompter’s voice, “ Accept the off-
spring of my love. ” Poorgirl! But the audience
had one laugh anyhow that night.
* # *
A Melb. lady, in receipt of a big income,
lately found to her dismay that she had over-
drawn her account by some hundreds though her
cheque-blocks still showed a large credit. Her
loving husband and son had been “working the
T.Y. racket’’—altering a £7-chequeto a <£7o—for
a year past.
* * *
Again—why do cases of whisky figure in
the R.C. Church Art Unions?
* * *
A book of essays by the late Sir Morell
Mackenzie has just been issued. One article
treats of “ the dreadful revival of leprosy,” and
unhesitatingly declares that the fell disease is
contagious—pleasant reading for those who, like
us of Australia, eat Chow vegetables every day.
The author describes the report of the College of
Physicians of 1867, upon which the anti-contagious
theorists found their stock arguments, as “a vast
edifice of error.” Mr. William Tebb, a specialist,
has also just published a work on “the recrudes-
cence of leprosy and its causation,” in which he
seeks improve, not altogether without success,
that indiscriminate vaccination is responsible for
the spread of this loathsome disease, and he urges
the absolute necessity of strict supervision in the
vaccination of a populace where leprosy exists.
The existence of the disease in London (says The
Bulletin’s correspondent) is undoubted, and is
creating considerable alarm, as it is more than sus-
pected that many people (some of them “ swells ”)
afflicted with it are moving about freely from day
to day in the West End.
• * #
Chinamen do all the packing of salmon
in the United States of Colombia. Not only is
one out of every ten of the Chinese inhabitants a
leper, but 30,000 of the Colombians suffer from
that disease.
“ The United States of Colombia almost deserve the
name of a nation of lepers, there being 30,00() lepers
there at the lowest estimate. The disease was said to be
almost unknown to the aboriginal inhabitants of the
country, the first case reported being that of a Spanish
priest in 1646. One out of every ten in the departments
of Santander and Boyaca has the disease.” — Detroit Free
Press (U.S.A.), April 23, ’93.
# # *
In some Maoriland towns the Salvation
Army now turns out about five a.m. and pounds
drearily through the slush till seven, beating its
tom-tom with an arm of might and groaning hor-
ribly on the horn. The winter mornings are dis-
mally cold in Maoriland, and when the early
unbeliever, looking through his frozen window-
pane, sees the procession trot by on paralysed
toes with a lantern glimmering feebly on the cor-
poral’s frost-bitten nose and the lieutenant’s raw,
red ear, and hears several hundred teeth chatter-
ing in the biting air, and looks on the draggled
females with great cakes of fresh mud on their
stockings, he resolves more firmly than ever to
remain an unbeliever till the day of his death.
The Brisbane tram-employes are now to
be paid “by results.” But the co. won’t carry
THOS PERT.
(The victim of the Miller’s Point tragedy.)
their idea to its logical conclusion by proportion-
ing to the takings their horses’ fodder allowance.
If a horse dies of starvation, another must be
bought. Horseflesh is dear. Manflesh cheaper
than dirt.
* « «
Col. Gordon, acting-commandant of the-S. A.
forces since General Downes left, was to have had
his appointment confirmed at the beginning of
July. Awkwardly enough, however, the head of
the Govt, is now the same Sergeant Kingston
whom he so precipitately suspended from duty
because of the duel episode at Christmas time.
Gordon’s usual caution failed him in that instance
—perhaps because of the temporary ascendancy of
Adelaide Club influence.
# * *
Hard times ! Tenders are being called for
the kitchen refuse at the Adelaide Destitute
Asylum. The ghost of the shadow of a shade.
* * *
There is a water-colour painting in Melb.
Gallery representing a female plucking flowers in
a tangle of weeds, trees, etc. It is entitled, “ The
Little Copse on the Hill. A Dead Rabbit.
Now, as there is no dead rabbit visible, people are
always wanting to know what it means. Is
“ copse ” a misprint for corpse ? Is it a Philistine
effort at a joke? Or is it a puzzle—“ Find the
Rabbit ?” A statement from the trustees on the
subject would oblige a lot of people.
« * •
A lardy Melbourne custom is for lady
and gentleman to go hand-in-hand. But you
never see husband and wife (his own wife) doing
it,
* * #
A Sydney empty-bottle collector has on
his list the houses of seven journalists, and has
instructed his boys that they are never to go to
these streets without a cart.
* # #
Another big church-choir scandal in Bris-
bane. The Lothario is, of course, a married man,
and his tuneful friends are several.
# # * .
The apostles of Free Competition should
glance around Melbourne suburbs. The Board of
Works surveys, let by contract at out-throat
prices are, in many oases, run by one man with a
theodolite and half-a-dozen knickerbockered 9-
year-old boys as chainmen at half-a-crown a
week.
THE LONG LANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The turn of your head has a charm for mo.
The glance of your speaking eye;
Your voice is so mellow and warm to me
When nobody else is nigh.
“No matter how bright or how dull the day,
Your heart by my heart is glad ;
You sparkle gaily when I am gay,
You’re sorry when I am sad.
“You love me in secret, and I Ibve you
With a sympathy strong to death.
Love is our life, as our fathers knew,
What else can be worth a breath ?”
“ Change,” she said, “ to another key
May come in the sweetest song.
Should we love for ever? It might not be.
' Till death do us part ’’s too long.”
Adelaide.
GOOLWA.
AT THE BAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wind in its wild desolation
Wails over the land and the sea,
But let care fly afar,
For it’s warm by the bar,
And though parsons may tell us what they shun,
It’s nothing to you or to me.
To dwell upon bygones is risky ;
Let’s dwell in the present to-night!
We’ve had sorrows, of course,
But they might have been worse ;
Let us drown ’em, old fellow, in whisky,
And hide ’em away out of sight.
Let your grief glide away like a ghost, now,
A ghost that libations will lay ;
We’ll be splendidly tight
And forgetful to-night.
Fill your own ! I’ll propose the first toast, now-
“ The girl who was married to-day !”
Gladesville.
J. LE GAY BRERETON.


Advice to Young Men—Dr, Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Carter & Co?
K
j3uauTabiiE
NON REVERSIBLE 3
T'HIS Ingeniously Constructed BILLIARD DININLi-
x TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—2S to RTJaj uiliras, include cover
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING“PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL and LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
Mrs. Highett, killed the other day whilst
hunting with the Burwood (Melb.) hounds, was
formerly a Miss Crook, one of a trio of handsome
sisters whose ideal riding was one of the chief
attractions of the Melbourne Agricultural Show.
* * #
At a meeting of London Missionary
Society an ingenuous reverend, named Dawson,
stated that: —
Missions were the best friend of commerce and states-
manship. Every missionary sent to the South Seas, it
had been said, was worth £lO,OOO to commerce. It was
missionaries who bought the reversion of Empires for our
children, and, therefore, in the name of patriotism, he
said, “ Extend your missionary enterprise.” Missionaries
had also taught us the Imperial character of Christianity,
and opened out a wider horizon for Christian teachers.
In a word, we now have clerical authority for
stating that religion is the modern missionary’s
cloak for getting the Mrs. Jellabys of _ society to
pay the preliminary expenses of his trading
swindles, and for asserting that the alleged man
of peace is merely the avant courier of the annex-
ing man-of-war.
# * •
The South Australee man has suddenly
realised that a wife is cheaper than a hired girl:—
A BACHELOR, farmer, age 30, near Robertstown,
in comfortable circumstances, wishes to corres-
pond with a lady, under age 28, with a view to
MATRIMONY; must be able to milk cows, cook,
wash, and mend, play organ and sing. For parti-
culars please enclose photo, and address “ Don
Tasma,” Morgan P.O.
r PWO YOUNG MEN, aged 23 and 25, wish to oorres-
-I pond with TWO YOUNG LADIES with a view of
MARRIAGE; must be good-looking and fond of home
and children. This is genuine, not a lie; nothing but
servants need reply. Address “ M.R.” and “ W.G.,”
Mern Merna, via Quorn.
“Nothing but servants need reply”—here is the
whole fate of the average married woman boiled
down into one line of mutilated English. And
the “ bachelor of thirty ” wants a cowboy, cook,
laundress, tailoress, organist, and prima donna,
for the price of a wedding-ring and the paragon’s
board. Love, tired of “the court, the camp, the
grove,” now haunts the registry-offices.
# # #
It is hardly creditable to the wealth and
fashion of Sydney that so large a proportion of
the contributions to the Alfred Hospital during
self-denial week comes from the children of the
poor.
» « *
During the hearing of the Wilson breach-
of-promise case recently, the Master of the Rolls
stated that in an old breach-of-promise of mar-
riage case the defence set up was that, after the
promise of marriage was made, defendant dis-
covered that the lady had a wooden leg, and the
answer was, “It was for yon to have satisfied
yourself about that before you made the promise.’’
# * *
“Faustine” pours out her “soul” in
Sydney Daily Telegraph
“ Beethoven’s Adelaida ! ” Who has not, at some time
or other, fallen under the spell of that most exquisite of
love-songs, so passionate and yet so pure, now melting to
a tender murmur, soft as the rustling of leaves on a
midsummer day, now rising to a ptean of divine rapture,
where the lover pours out his soul's inmost life in a very
eostacy of joy and longing? I know of no other love
inspiration to approach it; not even the delicately sweet
serenade in “Tanheuser,” (the comp, or somebody
was thinking of Anheuser) where the stringed instru-
ments alone seem to throb softly in the dim light to the
tender tenor, dying away at last like a plaintive sigh.
More “brightening! ”
# # #
Dear Bulletin, —Have you ever noticed it ?
When a.Judge once rebukes a barrister for dis-
courtesy to witnesses, should said barrister go to a
police-court the P.M. will “ jump on” him upon
the most trivial of grounds, whereas the day-by-
day police-court law-jobber is privileged to tell the
bench to tie itself in a knot—and other things.—
Petrel.
# # #
There was a rumour about Adelaide
recently that Gov. Kmtore was dead. Hasn’t
been seen for weeks; no social functions, no
dances. Society dames long for November next,
with either Way or a new Governor “not so
Scotch.”
* * #
lie the local Church of England mission to
the Jews, the Jewish Herald (Melb.) truly
remarks that “the Jew who does not believe in
his own religion is not likely to believe in Chris-
tianity. , . . Indeed, without some worldly
advantage in one shape or another, no Jew ever
abandons bis religion in favour of another.” And,
The Bulletin may add, it usually pays quite as
well to be a real Jew as a bogus Christian.
• * #
In a London police-court recently, a dis-
charged lady’s maid sued for her wages. In the
evidence it transpired that she was sacked because
she once failed to fix her mistress’s “ beauty spot ”
on securely when she was going to a party, and it
came off during dinner, and publicly dropped into
the soup. A man, under similar conditions,
would have disguised his rage and probably raised
the servant’s wages—anyhow, he would have hung
up his vengeance till later on ; but a woman
always goes straight home and dismisses the
offender, and then the tale of her independent
hair and her artificial dimple that is kept in a box
is told at length in the small-debts court.
* * *
A bailiff who lately tried to seize some
furniture in a Melb. suburb has been prosecuting
the owner for resistance and language. The
offender, it appears, told the officer that he “would
first shoot him, then stick a knife in him and
grease his boots with the bailiff’s liver, and after-
wards cut him up and fry him, and give the
remains of him to the dogs.” There is much quiet
joy in being a bailiff.
m * # *
Within three weeks there have been in
the suburbs of Sydney no less than three deaths
clearly and directly owing to sheer destitution.
# * *
A “ Working Engineer ” complains to the
S.M. Herald apropos the N.S. W. railway trouble,
that locomotive drivers are only “ labouring men,”
and are better paid than “ mechanics of the
highest class.” That has nothing to do with the
matter. They are not paid for their mechanical
skill, but for the exposure and risk of paralysis
they endure and the fearful responsibility of their
duties. And in the Herald “ Stockwhip ” Kelly,
ex-M.L.A., says it takes more skill to drive a team
of bullocks than to drive a locomotive. It is
difficult to argue with people of this sort. Heaven
help the life-assurance companies when the day of
cheap loco.-drivers arrives.
* * #
The gaunt, clingy terrace-house which per-
vades Sydney more than any other Australasian
city—that grimy, slab-sided domicile which seems
to be crushed flat by the other houses on each side
till its balcony looks like the tongue of a suffo-
cated dog hanging out to catch the air—has
developed a new horror. In quite a number of
these houses the bath now stands, naked and not
ashamed, right in the middle of the back yard
without even a sheet of paper hung up to keep off
the wind. Who washes in it no one knows, but a
citizen might as reasonably takes off his clothes
and gambol publicly in the horse-trough that
stands in front of a suburban public-house. Pos-
sibly the inhabitants go out and bathe secretly in
the very small hours on moonless nights, or pos-
sibly they wash in disguise, or it may be that
every man climbs over the fence and washes in
the next man’s bath so as to create an impression
that it isn’t he but the other man. Anyhow, the
present writer has lately come across three houses
built on this plan, and each time the landlord has
been utterly unable to explain how the bath was
to be used without causing a breach of the peace.
Dear Bulletin, — lie cannibalism of Aus-
tralian snakes. There is now no dispute on this
subject, which I settled some years ago. Your
correspondent, “ Slough,” evidently doesn’t know
what he is talking about. The swallowing of
J ielr young by female snakes to protect them
trol u impending danger, and the cannibalism of
snakes are two entirely different questions. I
showed at Coogee, in March, ’BB, that snakes
swallowed their young to temporarily protect
them from danger (vide S. M. Herald). And in
’99 I announced in S.M.H. my discovery of the
rannibalism nf smlrs« P nn f. m ™4« xtcs W
cannibalism ot snakes at Cootamundra, N.S.W.—
Yours, &C., H. J. M COOBY. Burragorang,
J une 27.
t „ > ,• ,
When Admiral Tryon s ship was rammed
? nd stav ? din b Y the Camperdown 90 men were
immediately ordered below on an almost hopeless
errand—to close the doors of the alleged water-
K>t compartments. They couldn tdoit in time,
9, r , , ie ?J e^, lron Sleve was half full of water, and
. - , ie . lediterranean was coming in, but they
I f l , e V a ? d were drowned miserably in the
, em P, ; If was a grand example of courage and
a horrible specimen of official incapacity. On a
British man-of-war, and on most other vessels as
well, the watertight compartments are almost
ic
THE TWO DUFFS.
Gov. Duff—as he was supposed to he. Gov. Duff—as he really is.
always open, therefore they are about as much
use in case of collision as a piece of blotting-paper
would be.
A resident of the Kurrajong (N.S.W.)
shod one of his working bullocks, a few weeks ago.
His experience teaches that it is easier to shoe ten
horses than one bullock.
“I know very well I’d be better in gaol
this cold, wet weather,” said a meek-looking,
tattered Sydney tramp, “ but I don’t look at the
matter that way. If they’d take us into Darling-
hurst without a stain, five thousand of us would
march up there to-night. But they won’t; not
unless we break the law. But no matter how
small the offence, it marks a man. Even on the
low ground of profit it is bad policy. While he
lives the police keep an eye on him. He’s sus-
pected, dogged. If he gets employment, his
employer is told all.abouthim. If a robbery takes
place miles away, the police come around, in-
quiring where he was at the time. And, then,
there’s something higher than policy. To obey
the law calms the mind —I would almost say, takes
the sting from hunger. I admit what you say
about being better in gaol, and if I could go there
without breaking the law, I’d do so at once.” The
orator had served just twenty sentences.
Advice to Smith.
“ Robert Smith (42) has been sentenced, at Sydney, to
three months gaol for stealing a duck. Prisoner, caught
in the act, was very violent, and at the lock-up declared
that had he been armed he would have shot the arrest-
ing constable or done something worth while ”: —
O baulked but still ambitious wretch,
O badly-intercepted prig,
Who now are doing your “ three stretch,”
You might have gone for something big.
Your bitter words proclaim you one
Who should have soared instead of sunk,
But now you’ll scarce be looked upon
As better than a common “ drunk.”
Infirm of purpose, weak'of will!
O, Smith, you should have sallied forth
Red-souled and fierce and armed to kill,
And played for all the game was worth.
It might have been your fate to win
The goriest crown that Crime could pluck
From Horror’s brow—and you’re run in
For sneaking on a measly duck !
By you a rather frequent name
Might have been gilded ; ’tis reduced
To levels of the meanest shame
As that of f>no who robbed a roost!
Bub, stay—you may redeem it yet,
And write it on the rolls of crime,
As one the world will not forget,
When you have duly done your time.
What’s one false step ? You may efface
Its memory ; in spite of slips
At starting, you may win the race;
Hear our advice, then : seal your lips.
Don’t waste your breath in boastful words,
Don’t talk of what you would have done;
Don’t reach for the domestic birds
Of others, but obtain a gun
And go for larger game—don’t prowl
Around backyards with low desire
To grab an under nourished fowl,
But fix your thoughts on something higher.
Remember, if you have the coin,
Roast duck may fill you every day.
Therefore be politic—purloin
Your fare in a circuitous way.
Earn honestly, for safety’s sake,
Enough to start you in the game,
Then boldly go “ upon the make;”
Set up the old, familiar name.
(Two rooms are all you’ll need to rent)
Black-lettered upon shining brass,
And offer ten or twelve per cent.
To fools who look and cannot pass.
Pay interest from their own hoards
To trustful idiots, live at ease;
Set up a carriage ; sit on Boards,
Wax fat on directorial fees.
All this is common. What remains
Is new and striking, it demands
Pluck and initiative brains,
A heart like yours, and steady hands.
Shall borrowers’ ears be startled with
Demands from lenders for their “stuff ” ?
This thing wants doing badly, Smith,
’Tis time that someone cried “Enough ! ”
Must horny palms held out for gold,
With chagrin fill the banker’s cup?
These wretches must be taught to hold
Their knotted hands, not out, but up !
Should swarming “mugs,” whose hard-won cash
You ve spent or lost, no longer mute,
Assail your door, then make a splash
Worth making, that’s the time to shoot!
Have “ barkers ” ready to your reach,
And cartridges in countless rounds,
Don’t use apologetic speech,
Mow down the miserable hounds !
The land of the Mikado is now repre-
sented among the buyers at Sydney wool-sales.
No other medicine is so reliable as Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral, for the cure of coughs, colds,
and all derangements of the respiratory organs.
It relieves the asthmatic and consumptive, even
in advanced stages of disease,
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Spectator”: The most ancient work that
“throws some light on the tyranny of the majority " is
the story of Israel in Egypt, and the most modern is the
hank-reconstruction reports. Read them and everything
in between them, and you’ll have the subject complete.
“ One of the Girls ” (Brisbane): The Bulletin doesn’t
care whether the Brisbane parson has been kissing some-
one’s girl or not. If he has, he probably did it very
nicely—and quite to the girl’s satisfaction ..“G.0.”
(Wagga): Proposal that we should make five cartoons out
of a fire at Wagga, gently but firmly declined “John
Jones”: Thanks “Gerald Killy”: That old man by
the fire who thinks in bad verse about his happy child-
hood and his mother is hereby cursed with all the curses
in the vale of Hinnom “One who knows ” : No man
shall use the cockney swear “ bally ” in this paper
“Anti Fat Man” (Wellington, N.S.W.): Received
“RF.D.” (Marryatville, S.A.): We object to the “blood
and sweat ” poem as much as ever, and your graphic
description of your feet would wreck any poem. Besides,
your feet aren’t of public interest “F.” (Hay):
Thanks—..“Larrikin”: We pay for poetry. The
market price of yours ought to be three years’
gaol, with plank bed and incessant stone-breaking
“A. Oliver ”: The Bulletin doesn’t thus use “We ”
“Waihoa”: As he wasn’t nominated, your excellent
verses miss the mark. .. “R. de S.” ; Josiah Slapkins is,
in Sydney, a most identifiable person “H. Martin”:
You begin, “Do I understand,” &o. ? How do we know
whether you understand or not? Possibly you don’t.
No one can understand without the necessary machinery.
“W.E.G.” (Melbourne): You are disappointed
“ W. E. Carew ” : The death of Bill is too long, and Bill
has died too often in The Bulletin already. If we could,
we would gladly undo some of Bill’s frequent decease
“Petersburg”: The man who calls people “component
factors of the population ” is too vast for this little, sawn-
off world.. . “ W.Y.”(Melbourne): Unsavoury street row
garnished with curses “G.P.8.” (Wellington, M.L.):
Letter received. You seem to be excited about some-
thing — “O. Ell": The appeal to the powers below to
reserve for you a temperate bar on the gridiron is expres-
sive, anyhow “Flying Fish ”: It did happen 15 years
ago in Queensland and has been a chestnut ever since
“6 x 8 ’’(Forbes): Thanks “H.M.M.” (Narandera):
A topical song, well suited for the coloured minstrel-man
with the huge mouth and the old-time conundrum about
the melon and the rooster “Jack Trathen ” : The
“village” on the abandoned goldfield where the water
“moans and trills” is a sorrowful attempt “E.S.”
(Auburn, Vic.): It is quite needless to state that “ the
above is a fact.” The dreary, pointless, boneless things
always are facts, somehow “W.R.R.” (Newcastle):
The first verse is good. After that the poem starts down-
hill like the hogs of Gadara “ W.J.” (Bourke); Hardly
good enough. The Bulletin keeps its own official
dreamer on the premises, and is its own nightmare...
“ J. Kane” : A paper seldom makes any statement with-
out three people promptly writing to contradict it, and
six others to contradict the contradiction, and eleven
more to throw various side-lights on the case. The
Bulletin will deny the existence of the earth if it wants
to, and will drop the resulting correspondence in the
w.p.b “ Bardun ” (Bourke): Miserable verse, with the
inevitable “sweat” in it. The Bulletin prints no more
sweat poems until Gabriel perspires on the Day of
Judgment. “Horace Foyle”: Witty—dirty
“W.H.M.H.”; The “legend” is too large and profound
a parable for this paper “ Cornin’ Doon” (River Dar-
ling): Thanks “ L.L.” (Gunnedah): Decent verse, but
then no one cares who gets the Pope’s golden rose “for
virtue.” If it comes to Australia it will probably be
seized by the recipient’s creditors, and will finally turn
up in Mosestein’s shop window.. , “ B.O.” (Gresford) : A
needlessly elaborate way of saying that the best-dressed
girl on Sunday generally goes round on Monday morning
in two trodden-down shoes, a tern petticoat, a duster,
and curl-papers “Swagman”: Received “J.A.C."
(Red Bank Plains): Poem seems violent and calculated to
cause a breach of the peace. Will consider further
“The Lyre Bird” (Barcal.): Ingenious, but unpublish-
able “Stiphnek”: To hand “J.E.L.” (Wagga):
The pessimistic part of your second set of verses is good
enough, but it is spoilt by the optimistic and unphilo-
sophical ending —“L.J.P.”: Minister Lyne may get a
title, but all the same he used to call himself a Repub-
lican. Tasmaniac ”; Will enquire re papers.
“ Optic ” : You haven’t committed the humour to paper.
“A Thug”: W.P.B.—in bits. Dangerous to have
such things in the same street with a case of type
“Waster”: Why not say what it was and when and
where it appeared?...... “T.J.8.” (P.): Wo haven’t
reached it yet.... “Phillip R.” :We have somehow missed
the clipping.. “ D.M.” : You see, we can’t deny that we
attempt to speak English “G.W.G.”: We abhor
“dialect.” “H.G.G.”: Write Turner & Henderson,
Sydney....“ Moko ”; The Bulletin isn’t surprised to
find the direct organs of the N.S.W. workers cheering on
the Herald as against the Telegraph. The latter paper
utterly missed its cue in not sticking to the democracy.
“Joe the Turk”: N.S. Wales is, up to date, merely a
place with a light tariff—not very widely differing from
the revenue-tariff of the old bogus-freetrade party
“F T.”: Man is made chiefly of flesh and blood. We
have worked until only our bones are left. That is the
reason we don’t start a daily paper “Ludgo”; Too
much detail over your hero’s amatory attempts.
“ L.L.” (Gunnedah): Not good enough ..“ F.8.W.”:
Many thanks.... “M. J.S.” : Good points in your doggerel,
but it isn’t originally idea-full “ F.D.” (Jundah, qy.
Apparently spiteful and of no public interest “Parkes”
(N.S.W.): Your unprintable story was buried decently.
“ R. 8.” (M.L.); Your poetry returned. You don’t
understand drunkards ; it doesn’t need misfortune, or
success, or anythin'! but opportunity, to make a dip-
somaniac drink. What makes a dog bark ? “ Old
Corap.” (Ball.); Mere sing-song never “bites” “Aus-
tralian Native ” : We can’t imagine a N.Q. digger eating
out his heart with remorse for shooting four Chows who
had stolen his claim and got nearly £2OO of gold. Any-
way, we don’t want 3-vol.-novel writing. ..“Yahoo”
(Mingelo, N.S.W.): We respectfully decline to make a
sketch about four young ladies and their butcher’s-cart...
“ West ” (N.S.W.): Belter get the sun correcied up your
way.,.. “Advocate ”: A weak variety of common drunk-
ard whom present laws always continue to “ improve
from a drunkard’s point of view.E.L.” (Gunnedah,
N.S.W.); It might make a good, common, swinging, sing-
song sort of a bush song.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
AUSTRiVLIAKT
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
£«-■“ DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN,
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.E.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions tier ling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year
of over One Million sterling.
37 STaFUBiEST, SYDNEY.
Zo sa,cl C3fiO.ce:
Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A- W. MEEKS, Esq.; BOBT
1892 amounted to over £501,000, yielding’ Reversionary Bonuses
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
rn
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
FLEMINGTON, JULY 15. 1893.
5 0,000 at 10 5 O , O O O
ONLY ADDRESS:
'“TATTERSAfiIi.”
O/o Geo. ADAMS(Ovvner),Tatter-
sall’s Hotel&oldClubPi - eniises,
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S. W.
ADAMS’
| TATTERSALL’S HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
above old-established and popular Hotel being now
•cnmnleted arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hdte DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest. Brands only.
pitt Street, Sydney.
!s> 'p
c <y i rom
> ' fiTroytr flA«rf
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
i LOXOTI S OPOPONAX
AFRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM;
May be obtained
& . Of any Chemist oi
Perfumer.
J?°nd Street
Bewareof imitations. Thegenuineis signed
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
KST The only thoroughlj
reliable Remedy for
coughs, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
A'TD
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale at Elliott Brothers. Limited
M
the best
BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIC
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S, A.
Cures others, will cure you
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name —Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
SARSAPARILLA
I
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the LABOUR
you can produce more polish with TWO Packets
of the “RISING SUN" than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
N
ADVT
UL
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria ;
T. H. MATE & Co,, Ld.,
Albnry, Sydney, and Melbourne.
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Asrtex Underclothing
FOR WINTER COMFORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated Unshrinkable Merino
Singlets and Pants just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (J sleeves), Ts. Gd.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 7S. Gd.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. Gd.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and include in Postal Order or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
Qatw AflffVTt! •
EEAHAM Is HUTCH, 76 King-st., SYDNEY.
£49,450 worth for £l.
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
THE EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
105,000 SHARES AT £l.
Anyone Can Apply ! !
No Liability ! ! !
2403 PRIZES valued at .£105,000.
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
First Prize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, value .£30,000. Rental value,
.£l5OO a year, and other properties valued as
under :
2 of .£10,000; 1 of -65000 ; 4 of .£2500 : sof
.£lOOO, and 2-390 of from £5 to £5OO.
Clear Titles ! ! No Deductions ! ! !
See particulars in advertisements in other issues
of this paper, or apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or CORRTE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Remember ONE SHARE (£1) may win 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, valued at £49,400.
Tales of the convict system.
Price—One Shilling.
Columbian Land Distribution.
IF’IIKr.A.IILi KTOTIOB.
LIST CLOSES for BALLOT on 15th JULY.
Applications sh mid be posted at once to
K. J. rte ICOMFOKD,
C/o J. H. Astrop, O'Connell street, Sydney.
ADAM BEDE’S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events,
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CAUTI OUST.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending OUT circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our 1
ONLY ixs
Address J
A.d.axxx BiedLe,
Post Office Chamber
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
5. EACH.
ADVT
ADVT
5. EACH
ON THE
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
July 15, 1893.
First, 1500 ; Second, 500 ; Third, 250 ; S. (d.), 600 ; N.S.
(d.), 400 ; 20 at 20, 400 ; 50 at 10, 500 ; 100 at 5, 500 ; 175
Consolation Prizt 8 at 2 each, 350.
Important Notice. —ln consequence of the new
Postal Act coming in force July Ist, we have Open com-
pelled to change our address as below. ILmitta ices by
Cheque, P. 0.0., Postal Notes, Stamps, or Casu in pay-
ment for tickets as before.
ADDRESS— “ GALA,” o/o. H. Alexander, Box 171,
G.P.O. Brisbane, Q.
M. s .1. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Slrcel),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
S3t Commissions Executed on following events >
FLEMING TON, 15th and 18th JULY.
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle and Steeple,
200 TO 1.
V-E0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1.
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
THREE CHANCES.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CKESCENT,” situated 63l
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. GEO. W. EI,IIS.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, July 4,1893.
rfIENDEPS FOE, PUBLIC WORKS AND
J SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 12.
Reconstruction of Timber Footbridge at Candelo
Bridge, West Maitland (Long Bridge)
Bridge, Stoney Creek, roads Bega to Bodalla—
time extended
Bridge, Dry River, roads Bega to Bodalla—time
extended
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King-
street to Ocean-street Tramway
WEDNESDAY, JULY 26.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
Construction of Wharf, Sheds, and Approach at
Wagonga Wharf, at Naroorna
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Hugh Napier, the Australian boxer 1 , has, in
eight rounds, beaten Alec. Burns, the Englishman —•
brother of John Burns, by the way.
# # •
Four members of the Castlemaine (Vic.) Gun
Club have already suicided. The Suicide Club.
* # «
The Melb. police have started a football club,
but where will they obtain that indispensable adjunct
the barracker ? Hardly from their natural enemy, “the
Bush ” !
* # *
“Charlie” Poynter, of Barwon (Vic.) Rowing
Club, who will be remembered as bow of the inter-
provincial eight which won on the Parramatta a couple of
years ago, met his death most unluckily in Corio Bay last
week. His outrigger upset and he hung to it in the bit-
terly cold water for a full hour ere being picked up. He
was unconscious, but rallied—only to die next day.
# * *
“ Lyons unluckily getting out before he had
scored.” —(Age report of England v. Australia match.)
* * *
The Bulletin’s prediction of “gate-play” in
the Shrewsbury benefit match was, at least, borne out by
the benefleiaire. “The champion professional batsman
exhibited extreme caution —he occupied an hour and a-
half in compiling 80 runs.” Anything to ensure a
third day’s interest.
* # *
The best “ All-England” Eleven of the moment
would include only three or four of the men who came
out with Lord Sheffield. In fact, they could pick a team
equal to thrashing Sheffield’s Eleven, with its four bowlers
who had lost their “ devil ” and a fifth who took to drink.
A crop of new bowlers and hard sloggers seems to have
sprung up within the past year or two—the result, in a
great measure, of Australian rivalry.
# # *
Lord Calthorpe died last week. He was a noble
British sportsman, whose horses usually ran to orders.
# # »
Joe Goddard, who took his Denver Smith gruel
so badly, is determined to he a champion of some sort, if
only champion blowhard. He now blows of the possession
of £16,000.
# * *
All interest in Australia in connection with the
Australian cricketers in England has now ceased. How
“ Billy ” Murdoch must h ■ chuckling over his exclusion 1
General verdict—too much dinner. Those of the team
who are not suffering from “ dining out ” are lame. The
next team we a;nd had better be accompanied by Larry
Foley to keep them in order, and a veterinary surgeon to
look after their poor feet.
# * *
In the interprovincial football-match, Maoriland
v. N.S.W., played at Sydney on Saturday last, Sydney
was beaten by 17 points to 8. On behalf of N.S. Wales,
the most brilliant niece of play was Surinam's run the
whole length of the ground. The locals did not play up
to their form. Harry Ahbolt, in particular, from whom
such great things were expected, appeared to funk the
ball. The return match is fixed for Saturday, when it is
hoped Frazer will be able to take his place with the
Sydney team.
# • #
Bannerman’s best record—4 runs, 2 hours.
* * *
It is proposed at Maclean to put a memorial
over sculler Searie’s grave by means of a shilling sub-
scription.
• *# *
The intelligent comp, beautified an advt. in the
recent official prize-schedule of Vic. Poultry and Hog
Society by offering fowl-breeders eggs “at £1 Is. per
dozen ; eight guaranteed futile.”
« # *
J. J. Ferris, says The Bulletin’s English corres-
pondent, has lost all the ability he ever possessed as a
bowler, hut is becoming quite a fine bat. It is as well that
he should be able to do something to repay what he has
cost his county. With regard to the Australian Eleven,
the general opinion is that they Are a good lot, but very
uncertain in their play. Graham seems to keep up the
most consistent form.
* # *
Half of the poisonous suburban racecourses
around Melbourne are run by the banks, which might
as well get the Totalisator legalised and make some
interest on their advances out of the machine.
# * «
The first “ All England ” match was more
of a defeat for the Australians' bowling than for their
batting on a wicket which had become more or less
difficult. The Australian small scores can be excused,
whereas the Britisher’s 400 odd cannot.
# * *
Larry Foley says Hall is a better man than Fitz-
simmons. Yes, better for those who run boxing shows.
Fitz looks after himself in and out of the ring.
• * *
The glorious uncertainty of cricket. The North
of England has always been reckoned stronger than the
South. Yet the Australians defeat the former and are
badly beaten by the latter. Then they defeat the Players
against whom former teams did so badly.
“ Self-respect—the mock modesty by
which a woman draws a man on while holding
him off.”—Gautier.
Parkes : “ The Soudan donkey may have
cost N.S. Wales .£370,000, but there are other and
sreater5 reater donkeys which have cost her still more.”
'rue ! Parkes ought to know.
You should buy your Swiss Cigars by the
bundle of 25, or you can’t depend on them.
Frossard’s Swiss Cigars are the only ones of the
sort worth smoking, and by getting a bundle the
name and trademark guarantees you sweetness
with cheapness.
Yet another Sydney weekly paper in the
field. “ Cod-EE ” (une penny) sounds like the cry
of a thirsty mucilage-bottle going up from a wide
wilderness of things we have heard before.
The Columbian Land Distribution, which
finally closes its list of subscribers for ballot on
15th instant, will be publicly drawn as soon after
that date as possible. Applications for shares
should be posted at once to E. J. de Bomford,
c/o J. H. Astrop, O’Connell-street, Sydney.
An interesting lecture was delivered on
a recent Saturday in the hall of Sydney School
of Arts by Mr. O. Garibaldi Roberts, of the well-
known firm of Fairfax and Roberts, jewellers and
opticians. The subject was “The Human Eye,
Sight, and Spectacles.” Dr. Maffey presided,
and there was a large and fashionable audience,
including various members of both Houses of Par-
liament, and many doctors and clergymen. The
lecture was profusely illustrated with diagrams
prepared by the lecturer, and dealt with the
structure of the eye, its formation and malforma-
tion, errors of refraction, eye diseases, and many
other aspects of the subject. The topic, however,
was too vast to be exhaustively dealt with, and
after an interesting discourse, which lasted fully
two hours, the lecturer was compelled to postpone
much valuable information till a future oppor-
tunity.
Mr. Ellis, proprietor of the well-known
Post Office Coffee Palace, King-street, Sydney,
has opened a new and imposing caravanserai, the
Crescent Coffee Palace, at 631 George-street.
This structure contains 140 apartments, including
smoking, reading, and ladies’ drawing-rooms,
private suites for the use of families, and all the
other requisites of a first-class house. It is
accessible at all hours of the day and night, and
possesses every convenience which the soul of man
can reasonably desire. Considering the present
state of business, the man who tackles an under-
taking of this magnitude is a person of much per-
sonal courage, and deserves to succeed.
The Mutual Freehold Property Distribu-
tion Society of Sydney is issuing 145,000 shares of
<£l each (it is possible to win .£69,460 worth on
one share), and a ballot is positively to take place
on the last day of this month. One share gets 14
chances. The first prize is a town palace worth
<£35,000, and having a rental value of .£1750 per
annum. There are other prizes of from ,£15,000,
down to ,£5, of which latter there are 2000. Apply
for (particulars to “The Manager,” care of R.
Hope Atkinson, 25 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, A
fuller announcement in another column.
A vast sale is in progress at Messrs. Say-
well and Co.’s warehouse (420 George-street,
Sydney), where all kinds of smokers’ requisites
are now going at prices 40deg. below zero. Pipes
are traded off wildly at half-cost or less; the
silver-mounted article is selling at .the price of the
ordinary humble cherry-wood, and the latter sells
at clay-pipe rates, and, as for the clay pipe itself,
the public is practically being paid to take it
away. Cigars are fast getting down tt> the rates
which are alleged to prevail in certain happy lands
which no one ever finds, where the partially-
naked beggar takes his “ weed ” out of his mouth
to ask for a copper, and to curse if he doesn’t get
it. Cigar - cases, tobacco - pouches, cigarettes,
brushes, and a multitude of other goods are being
traded off by the shovel-full; also, it rains plug
and other varieties of tobacco for forty days and
forty nights, and there is no sign or prospect of
cessation.
The days are cool now and the nights are
cold, and in exposed localities there is an icicle on
the beard of the common or garden billy-goat in
the morning. Therefore, the fact that the great
rush for Messrs. David Jones & Co.’s “Orient
Clothing ” has set in at this season of the year is a
reliable proof of its warmth and durability. Any
man can get cheap clothing that will keep him
warm in the hot weather, but to find the cheap
and good-looking variety which will prevent him
feeling cool in the cold weather is more difficult.
David Jones& Co.’s “Orienf’suitswillkeepoutan
arctic winter if need be, and the wearer may sit on
an ice-floe with impunity, and watch the massive
white bear wander past on those great feet that
are like generous carpet-bags, should he feel so in-
clined. And with all this the price is lower than
that of the ordinary “slop” misfit, where the
wind whistles mournfully up two shapeless legs,
and wails in a dismal cadence about a coat-tail
which is somewhere up in the small of the back,
and which bulges out as if the owner had the
stolen Victorian mace in his hind pocket.


ALBERTS’ Violins, real Cremona Copies, 10s.
6d., 155,, 255., 355., 505., .£3 155., .£5 to £7
10s., cash or Is. weekly. Special discount to trade.
ALBERTS’ Mandolines.—Best Neapolitan and
French, 255., 355., 555., 755., 955., to £7 10s.
Largest stock. Cash or Is. weekly. 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ Acoordeons. —Brilliant tone; 12s.
65., 18s. 6d., 215., 355. to 455. Cash or Is.
weekly. 118 King-st. Largest assortment in Aus.
ALBERTS’ Autoharps, with timing-hoards,
enables any novice to tune his own instru-
ment, 18s. 6d., (canvassed for 305.) 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ accept all intercolonial Bank-notes
and stamps without any extra charge for
exchange. J. Albert & Son, wholesale importers.
118 King-street.
IF you want a watch to SWEAR BY,
Buy a Waterbary ; but
IF you want a watch to SWEAR AT, then one
of those numerous dear-at-any-price, Swiss rattle-
trap imitations can be warranted to give you
every satisfaction.
TTENRY FARMER’S ARRANGEMENTS
for VIOLIN and PIANO.
“ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,” “ Crown Diamonds,”
“ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William Tell,” “Faust,” “Un
Ballo in Maschera,” “ II Trovatore,” “ Les Huguenots.”
Of all Music-sellers, or the Publishers, PAXTON Jb t'O.,
19 Oxford Street, LONDON, and 251 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
er- 1000 SONGS, DUETS, WALTZES, etc., 3d. each.
Catalogues Post Free.
ADVT
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post f ree Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
Amusements.
jp ILLI S ’ S CIRCUS.
A BRILLIANT SUCCESS !
Such was the unanimous opinion of the vast audience
that assembled on Wednesday evening in the
* Exhibition Building *
Where, for two hours and a half, unbounded enthusiasm
greeted the various acts. Notwithstanding the enthusi-
astic reception accorded to this most popular organisa-
tion, the season is positively limited to
%W“ I'Ol ll WEEKS ONLY
in consequence of long-standing arrangements. This will
be most positively Mr. Fillis’s
FAREWELL TO SYDNEY,
and, during the short stay here, it will be his pleasure to
provide as many novelties as possible.
EVERY EVENING (at 8) EVERY EVENING
FILLISS
§reat gircus and
OF
Performing Wild Animals.
Introducing to the Public of Sydney the Most Accom-
plished Artistes! The Finest and Most Highly-trained
Horses! The Performing Bears! The Lions! The
Tiger! Performing Elephants ! Zebras! Pantheis !
Monkeys! &c., &c.
Afternoon' Performances :
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Commencing at 3 p.m.
(Children half-price to ALL parts of the House.)
ADMISSION—4s., 35., and ONE SHILLING.
Children half-price (Gallery excepted).
Electric Light Throughout.
STRING ORCHESTRA OF 25 PERFORMERS.
Reserved Seats and Day Tickets at NICHOLSON’S.
Sole Proprietor .. Mr. F. E. FILLIS.
Business Manager .. Signor Agiati,
Advance Representative, Allan Hamilton.
g t E George d ibb s ’
TESTIMONIAL FUND.
SUBSCRIPTIONS to the above will be received
by the COMMITTEE : Hons. W. J. Trickett, A.
J. Riley, John Toohey, J. Watson, Ms.L.C., F,
A. Wright, J. Hayes, James P, Garvan, Ms.L.A.,
Messrs. A. W. Meeks, T. Littlejohn, J. Houri-
gan, J. M'Elhone, M. C. Cowlishaw, F. B. Lark,
John Woods, W.Henderson, Captain Broom-
field, O. C. Beale, J. Burns, L. Lloyd, P. Mac-
Mahon, R. Binnie, John Meeks, R. Pendergast,
Alfred Hancock; and at the TOWN HALL
DAILY.
W. P. MANNING
R. J. BLACK
F. A. WRIGHT
A. J. RILEY
Hony, Treasurers.
Hon}'. Secretaries.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
FRIOE-ONE SHILLING.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Hignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Miss Jennie Lee
In an Entirely New Sensational Drama, entitled,
“RIGHT’S RIGHT.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pit t-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
IMMENSE SUCCESS I IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
“SWEET LAVENDER.’’
In Preparation—“ LIBERTY HALL,”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
•piVOLI THEATRE
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
I AIt «rTI ICKAROS (
And his New Tiooli Minstrels and Specialty Company-.
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
QRITEKION THEATRE,
Lessees & Managers, Mr, Brough & Mr. BoUciCaillt-,
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
“THE
A Farcical Romance in 3 acts, by
A. W. PINERO.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, W. H. Wallace.
Theatre royal
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR,
Under the Management of Mr. h. H. RAINFOEI).
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“ TICKET -OF - LEAVE MAN.”
Robert Brierley (a Lancashire Lad)
Mr. JAMES H. RAINFORD.
May Edwards .. .. Miss LILY DAMPIER.
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hot, I.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ;
Family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
[ J o W TO GET STRONG
Muscles of Arms, Back, Abdomen, Legs, and eVel'v part
of the body can be made Big and Strong by using PRO
FESSOR F. LOOSE’S PHYSICAL EXERCISE CHART
(copyrighted.) Result of 25 years’ experience as Physical
Director. Special exercises for deepening and widening
the Chest, and making the Shoulders broad. Invaluab’c
to all persons, young or old, who wish to be strong and
vigorous and keep so. Specially adapted for athletes, or
would be athletes. Most complete work up to date.
Charts ss. each, by post, 4d. extra. Address, F. Loose,
Box 673, G.P.0., Sydney.
JOURN ALISTIG. Experienced Journalist ,
editor, sub., or reporter, desires engagement.
Address— “Schibe,” Bulletin office.
INTEGRITY INSPIRES CONFIDENCE.
Kesort to XJncommercial - 3MCeti33.ocl.s Unnecessary!
IT <£z PEI OE
THE ■
TEST OF GENUINENESS!
—OTJIR, —
GREAT GENUINE GOST PRICE SALE
CONTINUED.
UNRIVALLED VALUES!
Family Drapery
Silks and Velvets
Dress Materials
Gloves
Parasols, Hosiery
Ribbons, Laces
Dress Trimmings
GENUINE
COST PRICE.
Mantles
Millinery
Costumes
Ladies’ Underclothing
Basketware
Brush ware, Ornaments
Decorations
DAYID JONES & COMPANY
Family Drapers and Furnishers
Opposite the General Post Office, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S. VY.
“Songs without Words”—Mendelssohn.
Words without Songs—Sterling.
Specimen of the promised “ brightening
up ” of Sydney D.T.
Then a woman’s shriek rang through the court as the
scales were torn from somebody’s eyes, and the man once
loved and trusted stood a blackened felon before the
world. The reraovt 1 of the hysterical sufferer momen-
tarily interrupted the reading of the list, and as he heard
the cry of agony, the prisoner’s face, which had been im-
passive at the re-opening of his early memories, twinged
and paled.
This gorgeous eloquence, as a means of harrowing
the feelings of some poverty-stricken poor devil of
a woman—who probably loved and trusted him
still—is distinctly equal to anything ever pub-
lished by the Evening News.
So much has been written about the
cleanliness and godliness of British rule in India
that the following extract, from the Woman’s
Herald, is worth printing :
How tub Queen is Shamed by Her Officers in India j
There seems no doubt that the whole infernal system is
in full awing in most of the cantonments in India. The
military authorities practically recruit for the house of
ill-fame, which is part and parcel of the military estab-
lishment. Wherever the soldiers are, there are provided
for them so many native women, under a brothel-keeper,
who is sometimes paid so much a month for her services,
and who is recommended, patronised, and supported by
the British authorities. In return for this she has to
report any case of disease, to see to it that the girls go to
the examination-room every week—sometimes twice a
week—to conform to the regulation tariff that is laid
down, by which every soldier pays according to his rank,
and to prevent the visits of any but white soldiers. The
brothel-keeper seems to be almost as much an official of
, the Queen as the chaplain. She accompanies the regiment
on the march, she applies to the authorities for money to
procure attractions in the shape of fresh girls, and when
she retires she receives certificates for good service duly
signed by the colonel and the doctor. It is all a matter
of regular camp business.
The particular shame of the above lies in the
attempt at conceal men t, and the unnecessary
amount of lying indulged in by Imperialists
in asserting the moral influence of English
rule in India. As a matter of fact, were the
above practice suppressed there would be no white
troops obtainable to garrison the country. In the
Dutch East Indies, just north of Australia, a
somewhat similar practice obtains, both in the
army and navy. The godly Dutchmen, however,
go one better, inasmuch as while Tommy Atkins
merely is a casual purchaser at the shrine of the
regimental Phryne, the Dutch soldiers become the
absolute possessors of the young coloured persons
attached to their regiments ; each woman being
allotted a brass regimental number corresponding
to that of the man to whom she belongs.
The Strongest Arguments.
From an issue of the Wolverhampton Chronicle
vve extract the following :—“ We have for a long
time heard various reports of the wonderful effects
produced by the use of St. Jaco'bs oil in chronic
cases which had been given up as incurable, but
had always supposed these were enlarged upon
for advertising purposes, like all other patent or
proprietary medicines, but the reports from all
our leading chemists must be considered one of
the strongest arguments which can be advanced
respecting the value of any leading article of trade
in their line. The uniformity of these reports will
be noted at once. All speak in the highest terms
of the value of St. Jacobs oil as an outward appli-
cation for pain. The oil is on'y advertised to cure
rheumatism, neuralgia, gout sciatica, and those
bodily pains where an outward application is used.
The proprietors of this popular remedy never
advertise the oil to cure those diseases which it
will not actually cure. By so doing they have
gained the confidence of the people. We see by
the Liverpool papers that St. Jacobs oil is used
largely on board of nearly every steamship that
sails from that port. Many companies, including
the Cunard, White Star, and some of the South
American lines, do not even consider their ships
ready for sea unless a sufficient supply of this
popular remedy is on board to last the voyage.
Latterly, we are informed that all H.M. troop-
ships leaving Portsmouth take a large supply of
the oil oil board. The oil in yellow wrappers for
veterinary purposes is being used with equally
good results by the leading omnibus and cab com-
panies of London and provincial cities for use on
horses for sprains, sore shoulders, and general
ailments where an embrocation is required.”
A leading article in an issue of the Chemist
and Druggist stated that St. Jacobs oil had the
largest sale of any medicine in the world, and
when an article possesses the actual merit which
St. Jacobs oil undoubtedly does possess, the pro-
prietors are entitled to leceive the benefit of the
enormous sale which this popular remedy has.


J[ Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
&
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
ADVT
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
Fon INVALIDS.
FOR travellers.
‘IVTALTED MiLK is made from the
* 111 richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
| m ALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
J 111 no milk is to be added ; it is quick!}
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
► MALTED MiLK is the best food for fn
1»1 fants. “ The composition of Mailed
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet. April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for
1»1 valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
1 assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants. '
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
's Maigldckcheir
10H5E
LOHSC'S
MAIGLDCKCHEW
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFU ME
TOILET SOAP
are tl?e most fashionable inffye world.
Sold by all Ijiglj class'Perfumers.
GUSTAVLQHSE. BerIin.
fjEVEt^
fe QU (^RINDING
ft Pleasure to use
KROPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
RAZOR
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“I find your
Razors excel-
lent."
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
s
SHARPS
mm
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
Barry's Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIRa^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., liew York.
ADVT
Reotefs Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
I sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, donotafter-
wards'constipate'hut by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U- S. Medical Profes-
sion. The smallest and easiest to take, . Forty in a phial.
ADVT
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
ADVT
ADVT
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
/ you would like Song,
/ Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
ADVT
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15, Holborn, London, Eng.
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C-
ELECTRIC LAUNCH “GLOW-WORM.” 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stem Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Hail our or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. s. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND.
3NT.10.—Xo effect the
Building Societies’
wise unconvertable
mercial depression,
realisation, of Bank and
effects, rendered other-
t»y the prevailing com-
THE
MUTUAL FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION SOCIETY OF SYDNEY,
ISSUE OP
145,000 SHARES at £1 EACH. 145,000
With no farther Liability.
3441 PHIZES!
SPECIAL iVX XEKT TIOKT
Is drawn to the fact that these are
ALL CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
In a large number of eases Rent-producing, and all readily saleable. NOT unimproved back-
blocks, or inaccessible or unworkable Station property. £3T Investors will do well to bear
this in mind.
•/MP
I
cafes
S
First Prize.
Value, .£35,000. —Those Magnificent Offices and Bank-
ing Chambers, PARK and OASTLEREAGH
STREETS, now in the occupation of the City Bank
(Castlereagh Street Branch), and the Mercantile Build-
ing Land and Investment Co., Limited, having a rental
value of £1750 per annum.
1 PRIZE of £15,000 10 PRIZES of £250
8,000 PRIZES of £5.
14: Chances for £l.
£1 May Return 4?69,460.
Bankers i CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
The DATE OF THE BALLOT (which will be supervised by a committee of representative
citizens) will be positively announced on
IST 31st JULY.
EARLY APPLICATION FOR SHARES IS ADVISABLE TO SECURE ALLOTMENT.
For SHARES, Prospectuses and full particulars, apply to
Tlxe MANAGER,
C o R. HOPE ATKINSON, J.P.,
25 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
NOTE TO INTENDING INVESTORS.-If money is forwarded by cheque* add exchange,
and in all cases send two stamped envelopes for reply.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
IKT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. Ent, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the product! on of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughont the world.
WHp SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try fob Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo : eph,son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man eoual to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any ottier medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical G-entlein.au says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any nough medicine tried before.
Baron Berzilius’
-Buclm Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdose's. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions (f Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costivenoss.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I And tluse Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend than.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. —It is the purest of Bitters, and
exeits a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsins Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler o)
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne .
Bow’s Steane’s Wino
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Youno Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s, only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TON IC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.—When you ball for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
SydL*iey.
Thackeray created a Duchess of Oonnaugh
in “Pendennis,” a circumstance which has pi;o'
bably escaped the notice of Her Gracious Majesty.
She and the family at large shudder at the men-
tion of Thackeray’s name.
A picturesque letter ;—•
Dear Bull mix, —Your idea of concentrating the ballot-
papers so as to avoid local manipulation and possible after-
persecution of Queensland bush-worke'rs who may have
voted democratically straight, does not go far enough.
In the future, voting must he done through the pest, and
the votes counted by a committee sworn to secrecy under
heavy penalties. The average station-hand is, next to
the English chawhacon, the most servile creature on
God’s footstool, and lie is led by the nose to vote as his
boss does. No explicit direction is necessary. No direct
coercion is required, for he is devoid of all patriotism,
and as long as ho gets his kidneys lined with station dog's-
meat and his 8,2, and J, and can raise some decent togs
to mash his best girl in (or any other man’s best girl, or
wife, for that matter), he is happy. He is a typical speci-
men of the barn-door savage.’ The only thing that will
ever raise his dander and make him a democrat or a
republican will be when lie is made to walk.' Take him off
his horse, and force him to stay there, and you can count
on a revolution in six months. The straight, haired native
would rather ride to Hell than walk to Heaven. Old
Bowen said this years ago. As an equestrian, the native
is as harmless as a sleeping lizard, hut as a forced pedes-
trian, he will make things hum. Till then, as far as
healthy politics go, he might as well be one of his own
native goanners, in a state of winter oblivion in an iron-
bark stump.— Tub Liar Bird. Texas, Dumaresq River, Q.
From Maoriland comes a little pamphlet
entitled “The Labour Balm,” whose author
advocates brotherly love and unselfishness as a
sure cure for all temporal woes ; not recognising
that both are impossible under the social condi-
tions that compel human beings to fight like
wolves for the chance to earn a crust. The
Bulletin can forgive the writer his religious
fervour but cannot overlook his disfigurement of
that fine poem, “Acres and Hands,” by tacking
on to it, without any mark of distinction, three
doggerel verses utterly bereft of rhyme, rhythm
and reason. The “Balm” man’s parodies on
Scriptural texts are as funny asSheol. Dross and
horse, toilers and bowels are sweet rhymes, in-
deed. Here are specimens of ids enthusiastic
hog wash :
My fold ye have barred them out of
With bars of silver and gold,
Which these my sous and toilers
Have dug from earthly bowels.
O the curse of your subtle prating,
And your howling and bleating of lies,
Holding before them a loving Saviour,
And by your acts blowing dust in their eyes.
The Church has become like unto a stable
Where men saddle and bridle a horse
To ride rough-shod over the toilers,
Making of Christ hut glittering dross.
Leader, Who?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
These lead the noble cause of
j Progress \
t Labour J
on ?
These whom
and
/Progress \
t Labour J
has made what they are,
Who for
/Progress)
I Labour j
have done iu light ? These
leaders !
They are not leaders ;No more leaders than
The light is leader to the sun, the flash
To the lightning, sound to thunder, or wetness
Unto rain. As well say the cannon shot
Preceded by the smoke, repor t and fire
Is led by them, as say these are leaders;
No ! They do but mark the time and event
Of matters, that silently and slowly
Have developed and been born. Flattery
Could no farther go than call them leaders
Who are foremost. The cannon filled with sand,
What would avail the fiery spark ? And so
Were the world unprone to progress, whom would
These leaders lead ? There are no leaders, none !
In human progress and Thought’s evolution.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
Chambei’lain’s son, in the Commons lately,
referred to his father as “My Bight Honourable
friend.”
Three Melbourne detectives mixed up in
a burglary case, the other day, impudently got
handed up to the Bench the following :
The detectives having charge of this most important
case, would esteem it a favour if the magistrates would
place it on record—if they think the evidence, &0., that,
&c.
And the Bench kindly “placed it on record.”
Zeal and ability count for something—say, one
mark each. Chilled-steel cheek counts for the
other 99 marks every time.


ADVT
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), ot 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
piepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
succeeded, bwame it to every Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
ALPALINL VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
HOW TO
piiFD tp tht*
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate-
ful cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint.
The ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of
Memory, Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and all other Affec-
tions of the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended to all sufferers
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary Course, 235, 6d
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s. Warning :~lmitators will be Prosecuted.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
negistered. pamphlet sent free.
CURED over 100,000 SUFFERERS. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS OF HERR RASSMUSSEN.
“ Herr Rassmusaen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sidney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by hia remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”-— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen 5s a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassinussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fldes of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to aay, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.” Cooktown
Courier, Q.
How to Cure
THE NERVES.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to Cure
NERVOUSNESS, WEAKNESS,
DESPONDENCY, DEB I LIT Y,
NERVOUS IRRITABILITY;
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA, L OSS OF
MEMORY, WEAK BRAIN AND
NERVES.
Boxes—(is. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6rt.
Testimonial.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
TO, i a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Herr Rassmussen. Dear Sir,—l
think it my duty to inform you that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
their nse. Very truly yours, R,
Adams Luckham.
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS.
TAKE A BOX OP
Alfaline liver & Kidney Pills
_____ Guaranteed to Cure
COS T TVENESS, WIND,,
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
FLATULENCY. AND IRREGU-
LARITY.
Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and ,6s.
Testimonial.
Here Rassmussen. I have
much, pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to. try your wonderful remedies. —A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st.,, Melbourne.
How to Cure
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline F emaleßestorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
ALL COMPLAINTS PECULIAR
TO FEMALES.
__ Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. (id., Posted.
Testimonial.
Herb Rassmussen,— l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Yic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, and
wonderful for Beautifying- the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas. —
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remedy for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all'
Affections of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 2s. •:
posted, Is. 6d. and ?s. Gd.
Porous Plasters.— These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve'
pain almost instantly. Is. each : posted
18. 6d.
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,.
which contains much valuable advice andi
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. 6d. per bottle.
Herr Eassmussen’s Head Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Also at
150 Sourke Street, Melbourne.
01 kitten Quay, Wellington, E
Also at
160 Queen Street, Bristone.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide,
S 4 7
II PILL ARCADE
Hiller SYDNEY
HerrRASSMUSSENS
PILL PALACE
LOCK
CUREPIU3
_£°2_
'ITALITY
PILLS
for
CNUfKAI
ALfALiHf
PIUS
BLOOD
DISEASES
THE
NERVES
Celebrated iRcgisleeedALFALINE PILLS
DISEASES [j
PREPARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
• HERR RASSMUSSEN *
» SOLD HERE IN BOTTLESatL/ 2/ s J/f 122/f 4
mvo presentedto o^
H.RRasmussen Esq
'fa q
ofCRATITUDEc
fromNlNEofhis PATRONS™
r\* jorHwncßestoredThem* I
sep.
DtCERNEE
I
1 /y/\(/\i/n/\«/ ( v 1 /\( /,\a rj t 1 » ' j '• V : 1 * • ’’
rtUE'r+il,
HERBALjtlEMlßSlfeSratl'Jllt
wtgm
ZEEerr Bassmussen,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
P A. L I N E REM E D I
l 3-jb
■rr ~ , Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES
“ ; Au “” - “ lhe “
100000
MW—IIHHBMI ,i,
CURBS
G-TJARAJXTTEBD HERBAL
FOR TUB
IB Xj OO ID and KT IE RVE S.
REGISTERED AND AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN.
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Head Depot:
South Australian Head Depot:
New Zealand Head Depot:
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES
lr,o Bourke Street, Melbourne,
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street. Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
How to Cure
THE BLOOD.
TAKE A COURSE OP
Alfaline Lock Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD SKIN
AFFECTIONS, SOKES, BOILS
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
KHEUM, OLD BLOOD COM-
PLAINTS, ~ BLOTCHES, AND
Dither unpleasant
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Postech '
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special I*o>v<-iliil <<nu-se, 435. Cd.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
health.— Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
RH EU MATIS M, GOU T.
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS AND LUMBAGoT"
Boxes—3s. and 65., Posted.
23s. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Testimonial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,—l
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND COUGH.
TAKE A BOX OP
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
ASTHM A, COUGHSTniTCOLDS,'
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxes—Posted, 35., 65,, and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 23sT 6d., Posted]
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. H. Kimm,
f r Xr ,? r,,s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,.
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER & BEAUTIFIED
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, 3s. and 6s-.
Testimonials.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier
prevented my hair falling out and'made it
grow again.— J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hbtel, Bourke-street,. Melbourne.
The Alftiline Remedies cured me of
Debility.—Tnos. Mudiman, 515 George-st
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albury, 64 Wash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.— Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus’-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son,
after many doctors had given him up
John F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria
Herr RASSIMCXTSfi '.IBUKT’S
Chief Laboratory Sc Head Depot for all ttfie Colonies:
547 George Street, Sidney,


ip a h Y
H ui^St^
Xrio THt, foNltg'-
£-^6ncHS
ou/n?s/ </* T“He A*U*»f
cr
T"£. K
PicK i N Q U ?
Tht e°T-r^&
r^bi^r
M D
A Trt?
_S^NO>
vg*w
H\*Ki
FS
AT FITZGERALDS’ CIIICUS—OPPOSITE REDFERN RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


STEW ANT DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery.
NEWEST DESIGNS, at Makers’ Prices, all Government Hall-marked, DIRECT from their HEAD ESTABLISHMENT/ LONDON, ~
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
Usually
So!d
at £lO 10s.
Ladies’ 18-ot. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 10.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
513. G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 9/6
Ditto Silver, 2/6.
TO
vn®
True
Lover’s
Knot
Brooch.
With Charm Bell '‘against fascination.”
514.-G.11.M. 0-ct. Gold, £1; 15-ct., £1 15.
m
515. G.H.M. 9-ot. Gold Brooch, 15/6.
Ditto, Silver, 4/6.
The
New
Lucky
Belli
616.—Brooch 01 unique desiqn,
Gt.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 12 6.
518.—Q.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, £1 5.
388.-Suite Studs, G.H.M.
Very Strong,
»-ct. Gold, 12/6; 15-ct. £l6,
Silver, 3s.
226.-Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ct. G Id, 15/6;
1-5-ot., £1 10 ; Silver, 4/6.
The “Nuptial” Brooch.
506.-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, £3 3.
227.—Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18/6;
lfi-ct.,£l 15; Silver, ss.
•.u
224.-G.H.M. 15-ot.
Gold, 12/6; Silver, 2/6.
225.—Combination Pin and
Stud, Diamond Centre.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
The New Lneky Bells. Latest London Novelty.
756.-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, £2.
755.—Q.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 3 Bells, 7/6.
15-ct. Brooch,
£1 15
606. -G.H M.
Diamond Centre,
757.-G.H.M. 9-o't. Gold Bracelet £& 10.
Ditto 15-ct. ditto £4 10
TO I
vn
Charm
Bell
517. —Elegant Brooch, New Design.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 18 6; Silver, 5/6.
“against „
Fascination.
58.—G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £1 10.
Ditto Silver, 10 6.
510,—(III.M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, Set with Fine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
106.—Gent’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 15; Silver, 15 6.
126.— Elegant Seal to match either iibertT~«!H.M. 9*ot-Gol^ *3l/- '15-ct. Goid"il 17 6; Ibilve’r, 4
Or
107.— Gent. ’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6: 15-ct. £5 17 6: Silver, 13 6.
35.—Single Stone Diamond
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10»
Special Value.
30.—Ladies’ 5-st. Diamond
18-ct. Gold Ring:, £5 5.
82.— 18-ot. Gold Ring,
VDiamond, 2 Rubies, £2.
33. —18-cfc. Gold Ringf,
7 Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
t'4 10.
25.—18-ct. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, cut hole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
5-ct. Gold Earrings, 15/6.
50.—Nickel Silver Electro-
plate Breakfast Cruet, 10/6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
G.H.M. Silver Match Box, 11/6.
A size smaller, 8/6.
G.H.M. Gold, £2 10. _
fi.o
808
620.—G.11.M. 16-ct. Gold ’Brooch, handsome
design, Dkmoiid Gentre, £3 S.
SOVEREIGN
ti
PURSE.
605.—G.H.M. Silver, 96. Plain ditto. 86.
G.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
621.—Eleerant, Bow Brooch.
G.H.M. 9-et., 17 6; 16-ct., £1 10
&
51. —Magnificent Oak and Nickel &Hve-
Electro - plate Liquor Frame, 3’ Fin«|Cu<
HoUltß (14’ii'clies lonjjf IS.liijrh), ,£3^(Jp :
Delivered’Free, &fi extra, f "i
ty. Le , Ue " G - H - > ;- t 8Und fOT " G0Vermnent Hal ' Marked ”' >«? »o Staged Guarantees the Quality and protects the Buyer ; at the same time our PrWareal,out HtfAJUkl&JL
W Add to Rani! I tauce for Post and Register; One Article, Cd.; Two, 9,1.; Three. Is.; /Six. la. Cd. Mairrue-ueionw Chartres.
Wo despatch Goo Is daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address—
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE! STRERT
SYDNEY. NS W.
The Zoehan (Tas.) ore-buyers and middlemen
generally are crying “Robbery!” because the railway
department charges “ prohibitive rates ” on the Strahan-
Zeehan line and the Marine. Board levies fid. per ton
export dues on ores. The Zeehan shareholder and shindy-,
cat# chiefly absentee, so that most, of the native
wealth of Zeehan does not benefit T. smania in the
slightest degree. Several local persons, moreover, con-
tinue tfr buy and.ship ore, which is.vc.ry patriotic of them,
seeing that they decline that the freights are “prohibi-
tive,” the presumption being that they lose money at it
all the time. Further, they vow that it is impossible,
under the present tariff and dues, to ship low-grade ore ;
whi.;h gives rise to the enquiry as to whether it would not
be beneficial to everyone but the middleman and syndi-
cator if the low-grade ores were smelted locally. The
buyers don’t smelt at all ; they merely buy to re-sell, on
the everlasting “ commercial ” principle of earning money
by doing nothing and sticking to it. Notwithstanding
the alleged prohibitive freights and, the 3d. export. levy,
during May, 1200 tons of ore, valued at over ±’20,000, wore
shipped from; the port. The ore-buyers have lastly
started the howl that, unless freights and dues are
lowered, the working-miners’ wages will ha- e to suffer.
# # #
A publican Cm the Mooney River (N.S. W.) has
got a fancy lot of cheques framed. It happened in this
way. A certain shed “ cut out,” and old Joe, expecting a
lot of the shearers along, passed with his cart, just to give
their swags a lift. He was not disappointed. They all
came to a man, and “ shouted ” like blazes. In 12 hours,
Joe had every cheque on the ground. Next, day, a mort-
gagee closed on the station, and the cheques were “ recon-
structed.” Joe now swears that the men must have “ got
the office,” and played it down on him. Anyway, be got
the cheques put in frames, and he gazes on them when-
ever he wants to keep his temper under trying circum-
stances. He is even thinking of getting Premier Dibbs to
have theih proclaimed “legal tender.”
* * *
Zeehail (TasJ branch of the A.M. A. opened a
hall of its Very own, free of debt, on 15th June. This is
the first Slitters’ Institute in all Australasia. The building
Comprises a large ball; members' room, rfeiding-vOoitt,
office, lavatories, &c., with basement shops. The solid,
Unencumbered Start obtained is largely due to the level-
headed ntanagenlent of Branch President. Jim MTiay, a
blacksmith employed by the Argent S.M. Co.
* * #
Max Hirsc'h, Moth. Single-taxet, has founded a
co-operative association among SOO Unemployed to work
the newly-discovered VVedderburn gold-alluvial.
* * *
The Chinese miners have been stealing the
stone from the Raub, and, says a Singapore paper, “if
the stone is go. d enough to steal, it is certainly well
worth crushing, and the fact of gold stealing going on is
another indication of the quality of the stone now being
exposed in the Ranh Hole shaft.” This will cheer up the
shareholders.
* * *
Some three or four years ago it was the custom,
at a certain well-known N.S. ff. mine, to run ore out
of the tunnels for picking purposes. The quartz was
thus made to average over 10 ozs , and shares boomed
accordingly. Had the cuiiin.s been put carefully aside
they might have been put through as soon as increased
plant allowed* instead of which they were pitched down
the gorge on to another property, with thousands of tons
of mullock. It. is an ill wind, et". Sundry trihntors
have been making big wages by crushing hundreds of tons
of this refuse ; they have already recovered hundreds of
ozs. of gold.
# # #
The Chinese Restriction Act has already done
one good .hi ig in N.S. W.—it lias preserved the old
gullies from their ravage. In ordinary times they were
abandoned —many thought for ever, and therefore saw no
reason for keeping John away. Now that starvation
stalks abroad hundreds of diggers and others who never
fossicked before are finding tucker in these old gullies.
There are several hundreds working between Batbu.rst,
Hill End and Mudgee, and hundreds of others in the
mining districts of Orange, Parkes, and Forbes. But
what show would there, have 'Been had the Act not pre-
vented perhaps 20,000 Chinese arriving here during the
last few years?
# # •
An old proverb tampered with : “ Empty banks
; have the most .souudness.”
” # * #
Premier Patterson told a recent wihe-and-spirit
deputation in, Melbourne that “now that the banks
have re-ypened for business it would be found, lie
thought, that the prosperity of ihe community would
gradually revive.” If some of the banks had remained
shut, instead of calling up more capital to conceal their
rottenness, the community might have had a show. How
prosperity can result from an all-round reconstruction
business is the mystery which Time must reveal at a more
or less distant date.
« • m
The next time you want to melt a bill at 60 per
cent in Melbourne, if you are observant, you will notice
that the only men Who will look at it aretes weak on their
hams as they are on their pork generally. Those Mel-
bourne moneylenders who are not tame have feet speci-
ally constructed so flat as to cover and embrace as much
earth as possible. An ominous sign for the future of
Victoria.
* * #
A very big but (O ! rara avis /) straightforward
member of the United Order of Victorian Sons of Abra-
ham is in difficulties. Fancy a Hebrew money-lender a
victim of the land-boom ! Sydney history repeats itself
in the southern Babylon.
* * #
James Service was in a state of feverish excite-
ment during the progress of the Commercial Bank of
Australia appeal, thinking the scheme might be upset by
the Court.
# # #
Probably one of the large staff of managers of
the Commercial Bank of Australia will shortly he laid on
the shelf. Even his colleagues think he was a little too
sanguine. .
* * «
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos your par. re the
Royal Bank (Melh.), alt hough “ unassociated'” and the
youngest bank in Melbourne, its actual cash reserve as
Compared with Us liabilities pans out over 10 per cent,
higher than, any other Australian bank whatever. The
unpretenfjonsness of its building, judged by late expe-
riences, is the best indication of its financial strength,
the concerns with palatial edifices being the first to dose
their doors and the most tardy to reconstruct. Arthur
Robinson. [The Bulletin regretfully hut flatly contra-
dicts the cash reserve item. As regards reserves,
the banks stand thus(l) Bank of Adelaide ; (2) Bank of
North Queensland; (3) Ballarat Banking Co. ; (4).Royal
Bank of Queensland ; (5) Royal Bank of Australia. There-
fore, another bold advt. falls through.— Ed. Bulletin.]
* * #
The cheapest-worked copper-mine in the world
is the low-grade Atlantic, of Michigan, America. The
Ore contains hut 12J lbs. fine copper to the ton. Cost of
mining, 3s. 6d. per ton, carriage from mine to mill (3
miles), lid. ; crushing and cone. titrating, Is. Total for
management, mining, concentrating, refining, and send-
ing the tin tat to market (over 1500 Utiles front The 'mine) is
under ss. fid. per ton of rock raised. Cheap labour? No,
for the average < { the entire Staff employed is ahont Bs. a
day. It- is by working on a gigantic scale, as the Mount
Lyell people propose to do.
« # «
A Co iktown paper says thaton June 10 there,
were but 20 men left on the Starcke, and of these only
three were making anything above tuCker.
* # #
The Batavia rush has now fizzled out. The
prospectors’ claim is nearly done for.
* * #
A certain reconstruction’ bank would do well to
promptly disprove the unhealthy rumour that a good
deal over one-tenth of its paid-up capital and reserve
fund has been lent on overdraft to one impecunious
northern politician with hardly any visible security. The
politician’s (mostly unsecured) overdraft appears to be
about the Ugliest feature In the -Australian banking
system.
.• * •
Orange Leader says Mudgee district mines are
sending 500 oz. geld a week- to Sydney, through the local
banks ; and then follows this dark hint of another El
Dorado Something surprising in the, mineral dis-
covery line is in store for the residents of this district.”
The surprise in these ''mysterious things generally comes
in long after the discovery.
# - *
The first (cabled) reference to Matthew Davies,
against whom and Millidge a true hill lias been found,
and his bealth-secking voyage was taken from London
Standard. The Colombo correspondent of that journal
sent word “home” that Matthew was very anxious to
meet the charges against him. Said correspondent
gleaned this interesting intelligence from Matthew him-
self, and the Age man in London hastened to flash it
to Australia. Now, can anyone conceive the possibility
of Matthew informing an interviewer that he wasn't
anxious to meet any charges'? The “guyver” of the
cable is an eternal imputation on the public intellect. A
few people see through its absurdity, but of these only a
few again understand that the stuff has a meaning—a
distinct meaning.
On the Wharf.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Darkness lay over the land,
The city slept.
The fain from the wet sea strand
Through the darkness swept;
Sometimes the wind was the voice
Of a man in woe,
At times it was sweet, and crept
Like a strain that the heart has kept
From the songs of long ago.
Silent they watched from the shore
The night-tide rise ;
It crept till the wharf’s black floor
Touched it level-wise,
Upwards by inch and inch
Till the wharf was wet.
Look now ! And he raised his eyes,
They were sad as a man’s who dies,
But their grief was not regret.
Eastward a glimmering shred
Spoke dawn arife.
“ Our lives will go out,” he said,
•‘As the day brings life.
Fear not the frost of the foam
Nor the freezing sleet,
God knows of our bitter strife,
How we fought, and we failed. Wife, wife.
May our death be swift and sweet!”
-Close to his shoulder she stood,:
“Love, hold me tight.”
She turned her head and her hood
Showed her face death-white.
“ Oh, hold me close. Is it now ?
Will the waves be cold ?
Oh, love, you will hold me tight
In your arms, I can brave death’s night
For the life death’s arms may hold.
“ Battle and sorrow behind
And lack of bread;. , -
Before? Though our eyes are blind
God can see,” he said.
The waters lapped at their feet,
And their time was borne. ’ ;;
She crept to him close to bind I
In her arms what the’deep would iind,.
But the man fell dead and dumb.
All in a space he was dead.
She knelt her down,
The waters washed round his head,
They lapped through her gown;
She leaned her head-on hia.heart”--#;
And her falling hair
Wrapped both in a curtain brown,
And her face wits warm oh his o\Vn”,
But the man lay silent there. ||
"‘’ ; i
Newer a cry nor a shriek.
Her voice Was low ; : SI
“ Hear, love, though you cannot speak,
As a space ago,
God saw ’twas.sin, and he took
You, your soul to save.
He reeked of the shame and woe
Of . the ways that our souls would go
If we-took the lives Hega<4.”
. . . .
“ Saved, saved, my dearest,” she cried.
She kissed his eyes ;
She saw not the crawling tide
O’er the black posts rise ;
Felt not the waves at her waist
With their icy hold.
And dawn over-crept the skies, - A
And the wharf was a wave-washed rise-,-’
But they slept sweet sleep and cold.
Red fern, Sydney.
LOUISE M. MACK
“ Mufcti ” wants the N.S. W. Roads De-
partment to cease maiming' and killing horses and
draught bullocks by building slippery culverts;;
“ A few shillingsworth of battens, or tarred blue-
metal, would save this wear and tear of horses.! 4
A London lady writer has discovered.that
the ydung men of the present day don’t marry
because they are add cted to scones and light
pastry instead of rump steak. She would'have
them build up a robust manhood with masses of
animal food, and plunge into matrimony without
any thought for the morrow. Love, says Tolstoi,
is inspired by meat.
Writing re the World’s Fair, the Chicago
correspondent of S.M. Herald mentions that
“the sun has again begun toshine with wonted
American splendour.” In ’Mtirka, when the sun
rises, he expectorates and is distinctly 'heard to
observe, “ I guess and calculate it’s a faif thing !”
Then, divesting himself of a celestial night-shirt,
upon which is vividly imprinted a representation
of the Stars and Stripes, he begins to dress for the
great day’s work of enlightening the American
continent.


WOW’S "STOTJIR; TIME-
TIP-TOP GOODS AT PANIC PRICE
2s.
GOOD EYEGLASSES.
ANY SIGHT.
2s.
ADVT
This is a very neat, pretty form of Folder, and much worn.
They are thoroughly well made, have good quality lenses, any sight,
and are excellent ones for those always losing and breaking them,
and who naturally want a good article at an exceedingly small cost.
We give a Leather Case and Silk Guard at the above price.
The same, with coloured glasses to protect the eyes from the
glaring sun, etc. In all shades of Blue, Smoke and Green.
2/6 per Pair.
Spectacles are Required
When the eyes water, or become so much fatigued by
short exercise as to require to be frequently closed or
relieved by viewing distant objects.
When objects, to be clearly seen, must be held some
distance from the eye.
When objects cannot be seen without being held close to
the eyes.
When the letters of a book appear blurred or to blend
with one another.
When more light is necessary than was formerly the case.
For example :
When much difficulty is experienced in threading a
needle.
When the eyes appear to have a mist before them.
When black specks seem to be floating before the eyes.
When any of the above indications arise, all affecta-
tion should belaid aside, a responsible and skilful Optician
consulted, and the necessary Spectacles purchased.
In Sydney, the proper people are undoubtedly
FROST «Sc SHIPHAM,
462, 474 AND 687 GEORGE STREET.
4/6
Perfection
EYEGLASSES
4/6
FIT FOR THE GOVERNOR.
The very best Crystal Lenses, in Nickel, Aluminium or Tortoise-
shell Frames, with Cork Nose-pieces, so that they won’t mark your
nose. These are really good, comfortable and easy to the sight,
and strong and durable. We can highly recommend them.
Leather Case and Silk Cord given with them.
PAUSODONOPTIG SPECTACLES.
lOs odl
ADVT
lOs Od.
:p.a- i:b.
These are the very best Spectacles procurable, and, if you have not worn them yet, you really do not know what thorough
comfort to the eyes is. You can read or work all day and all night with them, if you are so disposed, without the eyes becoming
in the slightest degree strained or fatigued, and they also Preserve your Sight.
So comfortable ! So soothing ! ! If you can afford something really first-class, you ought to get a pair of these.
Have a SELF-BESTIAL WEEK and gret a Fair at the end of it.
SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES both the same Price, 10/6, with Case.
SEND FOR OUR TREATISE, “ EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
PAIR.
PeTDtole
f SPECTACLES.
ss.
PAIR.
ADVT
Guaranteed Genuine Brazilian Pebbles, that cannot be procured
anywhere else this side of the fish-pond for less than 7/6, and more
•often than not, 10/6.
Good Nickel or Blue Steel Frames ... ... 5/-.
Best White Metal Frames ... ... ... 7/6.
Sterling Silver Frames ... ... ... 12/6.
Gold Frames, 25■/-, upwards.
WHY ARE
FROST & SHIPHAM
FAMOUS at SPECTACLES !
BECAUSE they are thoroughly reliable people.
BECAUSE thev skilfully test the Sight, and DON’T
CHARGE FOR IT.
BECAUSE they are Specialists, and make Optics a
thorough Study.
Because they ARE Opticiansfand Spectacle Makers.
BECAUSE one can always rely on getting the very
highest class goods from them at the very lowest
prices.
BECAUSE they are alwaya Civil and Obliging, and take
any amount of trouble in correcting defects of vision
and adjusting Spectacles.
7/6
Petotole
EYEGLASSES.
7/6
ADVT
Best Quality Brazilian Pebbles, Patent Non-pressure Frames.
No Pinching or Marking the Nose—even the most retroussd can
wear these.
In Best Nickel Frames ... ... ... 7/6-
Ditto, with the finest Periscopic Brazilian Pebbles, 10/6-
In Sterling Silver Frames ... ... ... 12/6 •
In Gold Frames, 25/-, upwards.
Those living at a distance should send for our treatise, “EYESIGHT PRESERVED ; Spectacles, their Use, when Required, and
how to Purchase,” with which we send our Price-list and full instructions for testing the Sight at home. AVe can supply Spectacles
almost as perfectly adapted to the Sight by letter as when consulted personally.
Send at once ; we’ll post it free with pleasure. If you are in trouble, consult us, it is no trouble to answer questions.
Frost & Shipham, Spectacle Makers,
462, 474 and 587 STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.


Don’t fish for sharks in a rain-barrel
but print your advertisement where it will lie seen. “In
my travels in Australia I found The Bulletin every-
where, and everywhere found it powerful,” wrote David
Christie Murray in the London Contemporary Review.
That is true. The universality of The Bulletin's circula-
tion in Australasia is the envy of all other papers. In and
beyond Australia, The Bulletin, how in its fourteenth
year of issue, is the most popular, best-known, best-
quoted, and most widely and numerously circulated of all
Australasian publications.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENDER'S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 5s. f and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kemptiiorne, Prosser &Co
Dunedin ; Berkley, T aylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
A good many years ago, W. E. Sheridan, while on his
way from Sydney to San Francisco, was induced to slop
at Auckland (M. L. j and play Shakespeare for a fortnight.
Tile on. was made up from a 1 ’t of strand d prof -.sionals
Who happened to lie in the city. They were very much
stranded so much so that four of the leading men hail
to borrow some faded and second-hand lighis from a
Circus and dye them with annatto, and pass them off for
mediaeval costumes. But one-Barry O’Neil—required a
pait of sandals, and after vain attempts to make them
hirtiself he borrowed the ones which Sh ridan habitually
wttre in the “Marble Heart.” He forgot to return them,
knd Sheridan, who couldn’t look for his hoots when he got
out of bed in the morning without assuming the attitude
of Richard HI. offering his kingdom for a horse, was
eriraged thereat. Mail land, another member of the Com-
pany", coming down orie afternoon, round him musing and
vCry drunk at the stage entrance, “ Mr. Maitland,” said
the tiA-red'ian in hollow, rumbling accents, “ lo"k upon
this picture. 1 have come out here 16,000 gory miles to
be the steward and slave of a crimson local
gong-and-dan.ee - man. Here, Mr. Maitland, you
see the remarkable picture of me, VV. E. Shehidan, reduced
to the soarlet necessity of going down into the town to
purchase a sanguinary penny box of matches with which
to look under the table in that man e dressing-room for
my crimson sandals.” Maitland remarked that he had
matches about him, and the pair went to search for the
sand ds, which were presently discovered hanging on a
nail. Sheridan glared at. them as if he was looking at a
personal enemy. “Mr. Maitland,” he said, sternly,
“what did that son of perdition mean by hanging my
sandals up there?” “ I expect he did it to save them
from the rats,” suggested Maitland. “Rats be d— d,”
yelled Sheridan ; “ it’s not rats; it’s the gory arrogance of
the man.” Nobody knew exactly what he meant, but the
remark has become historic.
Faith-healer Milner Stephen got into an altercation with
his audience at Masterloh (M L.). When he had finished
blowing through the red flahnel, a man in the audience
asked him how many of the cures were permanent, where-
upon the gentle crank tbld him to go and find out. The
questioner said he had found out; all the cured patients in
that district were as bad as ever. Then Stephen began to
hound all over the stage, and to complain that his ques-
tioner was an “ignorant, conceited person;” and his
secretary announced that a sovereign would be paid for
every case where it could be shown that the red flannel
treatment had failed. If Stephen intends sticking to this
offer he will presently have to issue an inconvertible paper
currency, or reconstruct, or else pawn his silver tube.
From Oscar Wilde’s new play, “ A Woman of no Im-
portance Women are sphinxes without secrets;”
“One can live down anything but a good reputation : ”
“ The happiness of a married man depends on the woman
he has not married.”
Manfred Rose talks of taking out a dramatic co. to
S’ilth Africa. He has two or three bulky Australian
dramas concealed about his person, the plots of which are,
it is said, mainly founded on tame kangaroos.
Richter is held so tightly by his musical engagements
in Vienna I hat he had to refuse an offer of £2600 for con-
ducting about 50 concerts a year in America. His Vienna
income, said to he hardly earned, is only £BOO a year in
all—not nearly as much as Marshall Hall receives for his
inspired ravings at Melb. University.
Young Tallowfat, on his travels, said the Chinese piays
in the Flowery Land were instructive in the death scenes,
hut when it came to the birth scenes he bashfully with-
drew'.
Utting and Darrell should collaborate.
“ On the first night there ought to be no occasion for a
prompter, but he is wanted on the hundredth.”—C. Kean.
Huntley, new actor, makes a London hit with the
Keqdals. Parts make actors, and this one has a singular
novelty a Russian bomb maker. He is a kindly, little
man, a Dickensian character, with a happy family, and
when his bomb won’t go off, be is deeply grieved. He
pats and fondles his bombs, with droll incongruity, like
the Canterbury archbishop solemnly blessing an ironclad,
or Gordon blowing up 100 Mahdists.
A British critic strikes a weak point in melodrama:—
“ His unvarying carelessness in leaving incriminatory
evidence lying promiscuously around to be produced
against him in the fifth act, has convinced me that the
stage villain is not a reliable and trustworthy person.
But he has the bulge on us respectable ratepayers and
fathers of families in this one respect, that he never
marries. He is always found out before the ceremony,
and the bride releases him.”
Mary Amlers-m is commonly believed to have but one
personal enmity, and that is towards an actor who once
played Romeo to her Juliet and kissed her fervently
during the principal love-scene. Mary, who is of a frozen
and clammy turn of mind, never forgave him. Sile had
never been kissed before. Also, it is generally asserted
that she has never been kissed since.
An Eminent Tragedian, who had leased a small provin-
cial theatre for a season, and engaged a stage-caipenter
to in ike a lavish metamorphosis of properties, was watch-
ing the workmen’s progress. Uarp mer; “I’m sorry for
yer.” E. T.: “ Why?" 0.: “ I've played ’Amlet myself
—with these 1 ”
An author and comedian at present in Sydney is legal
claimant to about three fourths of the City of Washington
(U.S.A.), bought up by a far-seeing Scotch ancestor in the
days when the present city of palaces was a swamp. The
lime to make friends with the hair—who has wanted
friends occasionally lately—is now, ere the actuality of
success superinduces apoplexy.
The London Society of Dramatic Authors reads all
plays submitted to it, charges one guinea for doing so,
and if found at all suitable produces them at a trial
matinee free of expense.
Blondin says that crossing Niagara was not halt so
dangerous as his walk between the masts of the P. and O;
Steamer Poonah.
SaidOrisi: It is sacrilege to criticise such a divine gift
as my voice.
Nothing ik more gratifying than to see Show people
“ranging” themselves, as the French say-keeping
respectable. . But. nothing Is more nauseous than
to be tortured into ads. 1 , as with the Kendals, and Mrs.
Kendal is not quite such a.good actress as Sarah, Merely
because she has Miss and Master Grimston, instead of
Maurice;. The Women’s Temperance Union has been
doing the good turn for Antoinette Sterling, who thus
has the cAchet of hot being a Di Murska.
Even the writings of Rudyard, the reliable, aren’t free
from anachronism. In “ Namgay Doola,” in “ Mine own
People,” he makes the half-bred son of a John Company’s
soldier sing tw'o lines of Dion Boucicault’s version of
“The wearin’ o’ the green.” If Namgay Doola did sing
“The wearin’ o’ the green,” it was the original version,
many a year older than even John Company’s latter-day
soldiers. By the way, Bnucicault’s version, a veritable
Irish Marseillaise, is more intensely Irish in sentiment and
expression than the original.
Sam. Lazar when a youngster, in a boyish freak, accr
dentally broke the nose of a companion. That bis father
would thrash him was without doubt, so to escape the
trouble he told his sister Vicky (now Mrs. “O.P. Box”
Moss) that he had to get up early next morning, and was
afraid if he slept in his own room that he wquld awaken
the old people in rising. His sister consented to change
rooms, and about midnight was awakened with “ What’s
this you did to Solly Isaacs?” “Idid nothing, father,”
said the girl, but Lazar pire could not distinguish the
voice, and, believing it to be that of Samuel, “ wired in ”
with a vengeance. The lady says she remembers it to
this very day.
Bushman, who won the second Steeplechase at Rand,
wiok, was Walter Howe’s mount in “The English Rose.’*
May Hahgood (Mrs. Thomas Hudson), pianiste to the
Madame Antoinette Sterling concert party, has a reper-
toire of 240 pieces which she plays without the music.
Irving has been “knocking” them again in “The
Lyons Mail,” a melodrama which will live for ages along
with “ The Corsican Brothers.” When Irving first played
Dubosq, at the Lyceum, his dandy companion in crime—
there are three or four of them altogether, but only one is
a dandy—was Pinero. People are beginning to forget
that Pinero was an actor, so Irvingesque in his figure and
gait that he used sometimes to get the “reception” in-
tended for the star. Walter Bentley—who isn’t so very
old, either—was a member of the company long before
Pinero left it.
In a “Foundered Fortune” at Sydney Opera House,
one of the saddest features was that, when the villains had
agreed to destroy a ship for the insurance money, they
wrote a full statement of the plot in Latin, and the most
drunken Jew of the party carries the horribly compromis-
ing document in his tail pocket—and drops it, of course.
And in the Latin document they seem to allude to them-
selves in stilted terms of loathing, and talk of the ship
as the “ doomed vessel.”
In Oscar w Side’s new play Mrs. Bernarrl-Beere wears, we
read, “sympathetic black costumes consecrahd to the
use of the betrayed.” This, of course, refers to society
plays. In melodrama the betrayed female wears a long
bh.ck cloak, usually with a red lining. Sometimes her
cloak is drab, and comparatively festive, in which case
she hasn’t been betrayed very hailly. The drab-cloaked
female is less frequently hurled off a rustic bridge by the
villain, and seldom murdered aght out. But she of the
funered black cloak is generally marked for death from
the moment of her stealthy advent to slow music.
Seven of the Stipendiary Magistrates of
Sydney—men receiving, say, <£7oo to £B5O a year
each—have suggested to the Minister for Justice
that the charge and summons courts should meet
only on three days in each week. In other words,
that “drunks ” and other prisoners should remain
in the lock-up 48 hours at a stretch, so as to
lighten the labour of these well-paid officials. Is
that really it ? Why not at once order drunks to
be gaoled during the pleasure of the Binch for
terms not exceeding 21 years?
A Cairns (Q.) firnl publishes the following
refreshing “ ad.”
bur stock of pipes is not nearly so good as that of any-
body else, neither for quantity or quality, shape or size.
Our pipes, mounted with ivory, vulcanite and amber
mouthpieces, are not,the genuine article that you can buy
in Brisbane or Sydney. We Manufacture that sort ail
ourselves, and do not get our goods direct from Home as
they dp. Our competitors state that we sell the worst
one shilling pipe in town, and they ought to know. Also,
our genuine Havana, Manilla, and German cigars aie all
manufactured in Queensland, and all onr various brands
of cigars are easily made by putting local cigars
and old stock into new boxes and bands. Our
Ruby bites the tongue. Our Victory is not the real
article. Our Octoroon is dry. And our Derby tobacco is
smuggled. We have got a very good tobacco-cutting
machine on our premises, but we never cut our tobacco
ourselves. Weget it cut in China, and it is quite dry
and mouldy before it conies here. We guarantee no
satisfaction ; we never give the money back. We have
got a tremendous lot of knives, razors, scissors, &0., &c.,
that we want to sell for as much as we can get. Although
we never get any novels until they are 20 years old, and
then get them damaged, yet by a peculiar oversight we
happen to have a big stock of new ones now with which
we intend to feed our large and cosily stud of cockroaches
because we shall have plenty of money in a few years,
when the hanks open.
The only thing wanted to complete this ad. is a
cordial announcement that the firm has spent
several years in gaol, and has committed murder
and buried the body in the cellar, and that both
partners are hump-backed and have a glass eye
apiece, and that they began business with stolen
money, and have five wives between them, two of
the wives having previous husbands living, also
that they drink heavily, and never wash them-
selves, and habitually burn down their shop for
the insurance-money. That sort of advertisement
would make almost any business boom.
When Dacey rode the Mule.
FOR THE BULLETIN
’Twas in a small, up-country town,
When we were boys at school,
There came a circus vvitli a clown
And with a bucking mule.
The clown announced a scheme they Had—
The mule was such a king—
They’d give a crown to any lad
Who’d ride him round the ring.
And, gentle reader, do not scoS
Nor think the man a fool,
To buck a poroU'-plaster off
Was pastime to that mule.
The boys got on—he bucked like sin—*
He threw them in the dirt,
And then the clown would raise a grin
By asking, “ Were they hurt?"
But Johnny Dacey came one night,
The crack of all the school,
Said he, “ I’ll win the crown all right, ~t •
Bring in your bucking mule.”
The elephant went off his trunk,
The monkey played the fool,
And all the band got blazing drunk
When Dacey rode the mule.
But soon there rose an awful shout
Of laughter, when the clown,
From somewhere in his pants drew out
A little paper crown.
He placed the crown on Dacey’s head,
While Dacey looked a fool,
“Now, there’s your crown, my lad,” he said,
“For riding of the mule !”
The band struck up with “ Killaloe,”
And “ Kule Britannia, Kule,”
And “Young Man from the Country,'” too.
When Dacey rode the mule.
Then Dacey, in a furious rage,
For vengeance on the show
Ascended to the monkeys’ cage
And let the monkeys go ;
The blue-tailed ape and chimpanzee
He. turned abroad to roam ;
Good faith ! It was a sight to see
The people sten for home.
For big baboons with canine snout
Are spit fnl, as a rule,
The people didn’t sit it out
When Dacey rode the mule.
And from the beasts that did escape
The bushmen all declare
Were born some creatures partly ape
And partly native-bear.
They’re rather few and far between,
The race is nearly spent ;
But some of them may still be seen
In Sydney Parliament
And when those legislators fight,
And drink, and act the fool
It all commenced that wretched night
When Dacey rode the mule.
THE B.


Established 1876
ADVT
ADVT
ay
I WRITE FOR
/ D?
/ HAIR’S
TREATISE,
ON
ASTHMA j
“l
u
w
„ Melbourne
Rocke.ToinDsiHtC. I
""SYDNEY Dliottßro?
E~: Mott BfOU(?
Adelaide OTEau
. JliwwmMSi '
Auckland: Sharland * C°
Mff lend Tr&hae W 7est>menials
iJnwfMrc—
Tauldi Mjtfl
3N mz SharlanJk*.
,3AS».
7W
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.R.C.P. AND S.
IRegistebed bt the Medical Bo ard of N. S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/0,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoie,
that our new departure will meet with
as 1 iberal pat ronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables Us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED Bt
Dr. fl. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
Sdegeet.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
tipper or Lower Sets from JB2 2s.
Full from M 4s.
Db. BALDWIN Will administer chloroform or
ether for-the extraction of teeth at the mode*
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
.Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lisle fonvarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS. & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.*
Brickfield hill.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVICDRAJdr
t/7
■7
V*.
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
; 26, *OO, says:—“ I think them such very
stays, and those you sent for my
iff daughter answered admirably.”
ft; “SALON.” May, ’Of): “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
/■ able, and give great relief to the back,”
Dr. 0. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin,, says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
5 improving the carriage end appearance of the
figure without the injurious efiecisof the ordi-
/flary Corset. EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
- Dpu’ifebfejxut off -with old shapes; insist on
'bavins- ohmew loiig waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
olaremont, Hastings, England,
SKINS
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
fest skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modem times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
eYery humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
.8®“ “How to Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scaup, and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, n
Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every boltle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticur a, joc, ; Cuticura Soap, 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S..
Hence the Cuticura Reme-
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless-nails, are pre-
vented and cured by CutiCura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin. &
HESTLE’S FOOD
i'Oll
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiting simply the addition of Water to make
it instantly ready for Use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever;
Beneficial as a Diet in severe Oases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, Of the Uriiversity College,
London, sdys Nestle's Food is the best Of alt foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziernssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for , Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Lkube.
On TREATMENT Of RACHITIS.-Yol. XVI.
“In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience. ” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof,
Bihch-Hiuscheeld,
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOE
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Gelds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto Used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle..
Widow Welch’s Pills for Female Complaints.
"V/fUS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
he careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receipt'. Tile genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAPER, and signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Sndtheis, and the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 67, St. Paul’s, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 9d. each, by
most chcmisls
ENERGY, AMBITION,
Cheerfulness, Strength,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
and Perfect Health,
May be secured by all who fallow the example
of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. z6a isth
St., Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A.
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
READ THIS STATEMENT:
** Every spring for years 1 have had intolerable
headaches , and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and pain. My
druggist had known me from childhood and
1
i
m
m
w-
z
i
advised me to take, early in the spring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I commenced using it in March, and
have not had, since then, the first Symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, and Ijperform
my daily duties with a cheerfulness ana energy
that surprises myself, I take pleasure in tell'ng
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsamrilla,
and the happy results of its use.’’— Lizzie W.
De Veau, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
RUPTURE CURED!
Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag>
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture in all parts of the
world and givingrelief to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
couidbe filled withletters like these:
A Resident of London.
Mr. John King,of No. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’s Estate, S.K.,
says:— “l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Trussl
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. It fitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have gota
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses. I can jump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; i t holds everything firm and sure.
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mu. J.ToMAsELt.i.of the Government Hi use,under date
of Decembers, 181)2, writes; —“On the 17th of last April 1 got
one of your trusses and it has already nearly cured moots
very bad rupture of about 26 years’ standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your Truss lias
done what doctors and t russes have not. been able to do in
’26 Years.' You may publish my letter for the good of the
afflicted.”
Latest from New Zealand,
MIt.T.W. Narbey., of A kiiroa, Canterbury,in aletterdatcd
Feb.2l,lB93,says: “IreceivedtheTrussin goodorderandam
g\&AtiO%twit/its>neliienf'/ove. I can ridewith ease, lift, in fact,
do anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while 1 can get one of yours.”
o®~Oall or write to-day for our free “T 1 lust Pamphlet No,
1, and fi/ense m nUmithis faficr. Address the Aurtralian
agents Messrs W.H.Sonl&oo..b r )BPitt.Rt. Sydney Elliott
Bros., Brisbane : o*. the Magnetic' mastic Trv' 9 Co-i
ajo. 704 Sacramento St., Sam Francisco, Gab,, I'. S. A
PIERCE
NOW PUBLISHED.
“The Last of Six.”
The Unborn Dead.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Is God then dead,” I cried, “that such things
be ?
Dwells Righteousness no more within the land ?”
With such wild words, I cried, as one shall cry
XJuanchored, rudderless, in Doubt’s grey sea.
A Presence came to me, serene and high,
And touched nly forehead with a spirit hand.
“ Rise ; follow me, 0 doubting one ! ” so spake
The Presence; and I rose and followed
, Beyond the wide world’s rim to realms where be
The souls of bodies that shall never wake
From death’s dark sleep, and, of His ruth, did
see
The God-dealt doom of men and women dead.
So passed I to the deepest of deep hells,
And, thither passing, heard in outer space
Strange sounds, as of the beating of weird wings,
And voices like sad sobs of silver bells,
And shrieks that told of horrid travailings
Of them that are unblest of Heaven’s grace.
“Whence be these voices and these beating
wings ?”
I said. To me the Presence answered then :
“These wings upbear the wraiths of babes
unborn;
These are their wails of woe and murmurings;
From them the ungrasped life ere birth was torn
By wickedness of women and of men.”
The Presence touched mine eyes, and I beheld
Those formless souls of innocent unborn dead,
Compact of mist and borne on hyaline plume,
Whose tree of life was all untimely felled
By them that held life light as salt sea-spume,
Being fulfilled of sin and devil-led.
Then said I, “ Where be those whose passions
gave
The seed of these, and after slew again ?”
“ See !” said the Presence; and I then cast
down
Mine eyes to shores that no cool waters lave,
That of the righteous have but ill renown—
The sunless place of punishment and pain.
There, lapped in biting flames, whose leaping
crests
Snatched at them like the fangs of hungered i
beasts,
Were bound for aye, in torment without end,
Accursed mothers witli flat, shrunken breasts, j
Doomed with a doom that none may ever mend
By convent prayer, or purchased mass of priests.
And there blood-boltered men, who, having given
Their seed, were sires that knew not fatherhood,
Consenting to the death of that they made,
Were chained in chains that may by none be
riven ;
In burning fire and scorching flame they paid
The God-dealt penalty of deeds of blood.
(then cried I out aloud, for 1 had seen
His justice in mine hour of doubt and need.
And to mine eyes the Veil had been up-furled,
“Though mists of vVoe may His great doing
screen,
Yet, of His ruth, I know o’er all the world
ts a just God that deals to each his meed ! ”
Melb.
STEELE GREY.
A Riverine J.P. was, the other day, Asked
tor alms by a halt-demented dead-beat., “Ger-
ront! If you’re starving, go and smash that pub.
window and I’ll guarantee you free tucker for a
month.” An hour later his Worship was seated
in his own office when a pole cande through the
window. At the.other end of it was the dead-
beat.
Auckland advices state that the lorig-
deferred Samdan “war” between the factions of
Malietoa, the puppet of the Treaty Powers, and
Mataafa, the secretly-backed-up favourite of many
of the white residents, is now almost a certainty ;
and the fighting will be short, sharp i\nd decisive.
Which means that some five hundred or so of
Malietoa’s fighting men will—after having first
filled themselves up with square gin make a
frightened rush into Mataafa’s lines at Malie, and
in the wild melee shoot about ten of their own
number and five of the Malie crowd, who will be
too late in getting away out of the 010 (forts).
Then five heads will sever partnership with the
rest of the cadavers and be carried around —nice
and fresh in the earlier part of the day—by some
of Malietoa’s talent, followed by a crowd of
women and children. On the second day the flies
will gather together from Aleipata to Mulifan.ua
to feast on the chief items of the show, and settle
blackly in the eyes and ears, and swarm over the
blue-black lips that can’t even say Ponaua / (polite
Samoan word), and knock them off by a sweep of
the tongue. Then, when the gruesome things get
too odoriferous for the exhibition business, the
children will have a turn with them, rolling them
over and kicking them about in the dust and dirt,
until some of the deceased heads’ relatives make a
bargain for them, and wrap them up in a tsiapo
cloth, and do a tagi over the smellful lumps.
The above is a fairly correct description of a
Samoan “ war ” and the carnage thereof.
“ Cast thy bread upon the waters.” A
man who had been 12 years absent from the field
returned to Gympie the other day, and straightway
was observed to dig out some amalgam from a
hole behind a smithy at the Monkland. When
apprehended he had 71bs. of amalgam in his pos-
session. Which indirectly reminds the writer of a
nice little “ bowl out” that some time ago befel a
rather fashionable lady in a certain N.Q. mining
town. She, with two others, visited the manager
of a big crushing plant, just after the fortnightly
clean-up. He gave them a glass of wine and
pointed them out a toilet basin standing on the
table filled to the brim with balls of hard-set
amalgam. Bidding their host adieu, the ladies
went their way, the manager accompanying them
down to the gate, some distance off. Suddenly
one fair-haired creature, the wife of a local official
and a shining light in social matters, remembered
that she had left her gloves and purse behind and
hurried back to get the articles. The next visit
was to the local bank-manager. Here in the midst
of much feminine chatter there sounded a heavy
“dump” and two fine fat balls of amalgam rolled
on to the parlour floor. The owner of the. gloves
gave a very mirthless laugh and explained : “They
fell out of my pocket. I was playing a joke oil
Mr. Everyone smiled, as this particular
lady wasn't one of the joking kind.


Medical.
Hotel.
“■ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
tfrom rut-stti-ect to
totlercngli-streci),
Salween King Je Market St #,
BVDAKV.
iriisii
188
IN’ THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Optiox.
teWS VOM], Manager!,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous dis > piers,
eucti as wind and pain in
Hie stomach, siok head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dtzxhiess. and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
beat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
Bleep, frightful dreams,
am) all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &e. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. B erv
Itifterer Is carries'ly invited to try one box of these
fills, Bmd they wdi be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills arc invaluable''
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that Is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM'S PILES for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of ail ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved bv thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and alt disorders
af the liver, they act like " MAGIC,” and a few doses wilt
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long lost complexion,
bring hack the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are •* FACTS ” tes ifled
continually by inenibe s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best gnarantees.to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beechnut's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections. Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkcuam's Coi'gii
Pints a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, bv the
Proprietor, Thomas Bet chain, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es. Dd. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
PATENT
PILLS.
n— P •mmmmm
M
HEALTH,
ANHOOD.
SI hem: TH a A7> / 7 G»K KESJVKMO
. Jti hour U eeks by the me of
ADVT
The only Infallible Remedy for DRBTLIfY.
Used for a quartern? ft century with unparalleled
»i«i unprecedenti (1 success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Emmet of Life restores Health and
Strength in the most shuttered mid debilitat'd constitutions ,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of JSs, or four quantities in one for SUs Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agent* for Australasia—Perry <b Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy M KLBOVIt A 7 fc’
Agents for N.S. Wales— VV. 11. Soul&Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
NOW IN THE PRESS.
“The Isast of Six.
m ROSE’S
$
x
mui
Ksupy?
mo
Ms
RELIABLE
•T'HIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
HE. A.. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Kat.ahlished 1858, By Post is. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTH AN'S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
«
'r.ya
m
EUREKA
:CTRIC I
s
ELECTRIC BELT.
//
V ,
&
{*■> \
/ W\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Bark, hum-
Wgo, Gid liness, Rheumatism, Kinney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improv tn mts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 da,-ys
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what ■ e represent them to he. Those belts are
made f >r the sp eific purpose of producing a e< ntinuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to healt h and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cu el in three months.
It is more co u enient to w< ar than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing piersons hew they may obtain these belts
without paving for them until tney have proved them
coinprelent to cure any disease of the Nervons System,
will he forwarded to any address or. receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Svdskv.
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, etc.
T A. S 3 3%a: JSk. IST X JSk.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from This
Bulletin Ollice, 24 Pitt-sfc., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
QWS
]|
S^OLD,
'\every^here
m
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
cocoa
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘■3E*3ricsCs Wariwig,’
From Thb BCLI-KTtN, are now published and
may bo had of any bookseller; or will bo
posted direct from Bui.lktik office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Business Announcements.
ADVT
ADVT
whisky
m
m
V-.
m
: ■
■A
m
'A/W'A W.
.
**■♦*
at.
Sife.
Best ©n Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt s Browing & Wine Ss Spirit Co., Limited.
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
ikr Party ; “Why didn’t you keep
Robertson’s Whisky
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
53gT* Coupon with Every Case.
•«05
r ATKINSO
WHITE RO
(W
’ Frasr
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Usenonebut Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Kssence. j
ATKINSON S
OPOPANAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION I - Only genuine wi:h *hield-
six m ue and yellow mhel and usu;
Trade Mark—a‘ White liosc ’’—
and address in lull-
"Men I have Smiled with.”
w
E STAY at B ruton
jMHnaanoD
wagga.
flive E. JXTa-u.gcli.torL
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
ADVT
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, i? 3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakf-ist. 55.; Double ditto Ids. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. K. UKKKR, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
TRE GEOSYENOR HOTEL,
Inclusive or Separate Tariff, as desired.
Sinyle Rooms from 3s. Double Rooms from Os.
Inclusive Tariff 10s. (id., 12s. (id. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
TIIE LANG HAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of Vork-street, Sydney.
Best Brands' of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, Ac.
First-class Accommodation fur Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Sydney
1 1 RICE—ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,"
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
Unctive Australian National Policy,
Tub Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One .Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded,
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
!. State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one Mouse to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship ©f Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The pnblic eye rejects as uninteresting more
chan half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in Tub Bulletin.
Tub Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have nnavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Ana-
Indian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It (mints with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nations
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—-the direct cause of halt the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the ohvms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, acrainst thedark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, Th*
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded \tith a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other pajier, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the busiunan of the Ear North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-aheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official —that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
ether paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Businem communications to he addressed to
William Maclkod, Managing Director, to n-hom
all remi/taners are payable. Editorial communi•
utions to be addressed to J. F. Akchikalu


b«x nm.
K.r.o.
Telephone 972.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
-—AND—
GUTLEB-r
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
y
Show flooma s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
"MOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST"OP SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
by
EZE&TSTIEST PAVE3TC,
Price, One Sliilling—Posted to any Australasian
address. Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYDKTEY.
[Established over a Quarter of a Cknturv.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACINO THE RESERVE.
P*- Terms—los, fid, per i»ay. Walter Sidney <l*te of Newcastle), 4 4 Prop. ’ 1
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
• I
ZXJ
3>
&
o
O
0
lac^aJocK>
o
o
o
o
o
R. A. Hervoy, Agent, 28 . Sydney.
SF're'e
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &e. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
TV
OTlCE.“Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LAGY CO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tli© “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Worlta,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration,
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
ADVT
B%?r
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT I
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip—ruraliso in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duffs or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are to business. I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man —a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
i'OY never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal, Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the EARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
IDewar’s WHlstey.
30 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded ax INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents: ... CURCIER, ADET Se CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 8.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is,
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Short and Pithy Australian Tales by the Adven-
turous Queensland Explorer and well-known
Writer,
Preface Contributed by “ Rolf Boldrewoou.”
