

$>
o
ri*
A*
CA
6*.
&
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST. =
Ait KEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND. ’ USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
THE BEST ITST THE MARKET AND SUPPLIED TO THE PBISHPAL CUBS IX SVDVCT.
HARRISON & ATT WOOD, 251 G-eorge-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
Sat. C 3-» WATK.INS CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
FRY
ALTED COCOA.
CRAWFORD’S
CELEBUATED
3E». & O.
Scotch Whisky
o
&
o
Si
(§|
o
o
N
i£p ALt
&
JULES RENARD Sc CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
rt. '
- ( )
>
2
o pIS
o*r
fne
*r°n
r*A
•r{j^
1
mu
THe Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ••• Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
EIIESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING SIREET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of DIET
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
PROCESS enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
WALKER’S WHISET. ULSOPP'S ALE.
JOUKT WALKER, 2-4= 803NT33 STREET, S-Y-OKTEY.
gole Agents iix New aoutli for Messrs. Clayton and SHvittleworth.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
life
. . V
TSwp n »' sHuw~r<i
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elev ators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
COMPOUND UNDEETYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES,
J. & C. Howard, 2SOJ
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. 680. j
[Saturday, February 25, 1893.


TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
By “PRICE WARUNG."
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
BOOKS! BOOKS ! BOOKS!
■(ought ami Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel)
ERGE
NO
In the
ffA:
Elastic
Truss has
ands of
Springs.
TRUSS
World will Retain
tore or give Belief
Pierce's Magnetic
Truss. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
, cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
It can be worn with ease and comfort
Xigrlit and Bay. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mail.
If you want the BEfS'l 1 , send for Pamphlet Sfo. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.SanFrancisco.Cal.
Or Washington 11. Soul& Co.. 16.0 Pitt St..
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
m
WS
mmmm
dsf
Si
Ill®
MALTO-
QUINIA
WINE.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
- J
AS
A fare for
AGUE,
DEB ILITY,
INFLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
Wholesale Agents:
LANGE <sc THONEMAN,
MEIB«IK\E
Dr.RSOGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AST) INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Ohas. H. Piessb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., «&c., Public Analysts.
08. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
*!Asotnists
vjO.
CROMARTY |
Whisky:
ARCYLESMIRE
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOE
AUSTRALIA.
BEOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR. E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
bill (mi Himn
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIES,
Cure CANCER, Ansemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER.
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S _
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Eose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, and its ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a White Hose
and address in lull.
manhood.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In hour H etis by the use of
O' R'ICORO's
VI fB-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra.. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry ds Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
For Consumption use
faitW 1 *Sons ...
MW-
sd
F
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPJE
EXTRACT IN TH E WORLD)
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
HONOURABLE TREATMENT.
Si
‘•aJbS
£■
II
'::■ ■;
.
MMHA cßHßmtt
11 Cii*
EnKfli
Ihhi
il?
w
■u
• ...
0V
y /
SURGEON LANGSTON,
THE EXPERIENCED AND RENOWNED SPECIALIST
Practice al»li*lic«l 4ft I'ear*.
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Stag, g ov .,
Engineers, registered In England and Australia
and authorised by Act of Parliament to practise
in all the branches of Medicine and Surgarv
is now permanently located at 6
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon to publish
my address, so that all in need of medical skill may have
the benefit of my experience. Consultation is free to
all, but when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of tfie
case will be made, and appropriate medicine sent
My life-long experience, extending over 45
years, and practical method of treatment insure a
speedy and permanent cure in all
Special Diseases.
NEURASTHENIA or DEBILITY,
ORGANIC WEAKNESS, LACK of
ENERGY, FAILING MEMORY, PHYSICAL
DECAY,
producing some of tne following effects—Debility, Dimness
of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
Face, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence
Gloominess, Despondency, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Want of Energy, Palpitation, Stunted
Development. Pains in the Back, etc., treated
with success, safely and privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all-forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful
Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Remedies. Stiff and Swollen Joints
and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CUUEIi, Constitutional or acquired II eaknowtes
of both Sexes treated successfully. Itugtturo instantlv relieved and permanently cured. Surgeon Langston’s
EJLiEe'TRIC QUADRANT,
with double compress and
supports, price £2. I use
only the best remedies. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with skill in a
respectful manner; and knowing what to do, IVo Exjicrinients are made. Horae Treatment.
Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home. Those rc<|airing' immediate
Treatment can, by forwarding particulars of their case and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post.
Before-confiding your case_ elsewhere, Consult the Old and Successful specialist, **l’ 18 <5 EO.V
TAarCrSSTOi#. Age and. experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering,
and add golden years to life. 3i« mercury or poisonous drnjj-s used. New Edition Of my
latest work, “ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” 68 pages, sent free to men.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
N.B.— The Only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
W CONSULTATION FREE.
v»t
A(>
5AY
rHA-f
fs
Js Always fHfc Best
Scale of Advertising 1
u
-IN—
THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for
cash
Os. per inch per insertion, nett.
Ift per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „ „ • , --I
Ifts. per inch per insertion, nett,
in advance.
GROSVENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ Tlie LAST OF SIX:”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
—BY—
&T EEUEST
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewoocl.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


Medical.
DrSPeer
Assisted by Dr. ELMSLIE,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc'.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
p.Q. Box 320.
ESTABLISHED in 1880.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
nf N S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
nlaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies: therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours : 10 to 18 a.iu.; Bto 4 and
7 to 8 p.ui.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he.
trusts that this will prove itself i
GOOD NEWS INDEED {
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee wdiich includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER,
etc., etc.
Dt. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated 1 ,1
FZXjXjS.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &0., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra,
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s. ?
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CUBE.
Mention this paper when xcriling.
“Men I have Smiled with.’
STAY at 3S rm.t; o M. ’s,
NHnaTnoo J
STAY AT THE ROYAL.,
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
CHILTERN, VIC.
EMcSWINEY’S star hotel
■ Is tub Bust. I
WAGGA.
(live E. 3Xra.Txgla.tiOM.';
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL. |
TORONTO HOTEL,#
Lake Macquarie. |
KSf Under New Management. \
Superior Accommodation for Families. 5 Terms from
Ss. per Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager .. Geo. Ily. James
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney). |
ALBURY. f
THE GLOBE HOTEL
(T. K. BROWN, Proprietor)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
RW New Sample Room just Added. ■
CRAiro Ho
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
I K£
fcIELDOURNH.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding- Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne. '
r 11ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEAj,
.1 PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
EN GLA N D VI A\ AMERICA
INI 3 7 DAljrS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alilce the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP NEW ZEALAND
I (Limited), '
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OP SAN
FRANCISCO. V
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their (journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San .Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land : \
SALOON i £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
; STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON. Manager,
Mssageries maritimes.
SYDNEY to LONDON,
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KUBRACHEB, BOMBA
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 8000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates;—
' English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Medical.
WHAT IS
A WEEK BACK
WHY, LAST SATURDAY!
A Woman’s Back.
It is the mainspring of her life.
What can she do, where can she go, so long as
that deadly backache saps every particle of her
strength and ambition V
She cannot walk, she cannot stand ; her house-
work is a burden ; the hours behind the counter o r
in the factory are crushing; she is miserable.
The cause is some uterine derangement, or
other phase of debility.
The backache is the sure symptom.
YIM, the great Phosphated Elixir, is the Sure
Cure for cases of this kind. VIM will correct
and cure; YIM will invigorate and build up;
VIM is a Nervine that soothes and strengthens,
v If your druggist does not stock YIM, send
direct to the YIM Laboratories, Golden Key
Pharmacy, 229 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
YIM, VIGOR, VITALITY are Synonymous
Terms.
YIM,
a Phosphated Elixir. The most
(powerful remedy for DEBILITY,
Pulmonary and Wasting Diseases, from whatever
cause arising. As a bracing and invigorating
Tonic for the human race, this medicine reaches
a degree of perfection attained by no other com-
pound yet discovered. It affords relief and per-
manently cures all who suffer from wasting and
withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Kidney and Bladder Diseases and Liver Com-
plaint. It never fails to regenerate the most
important elements of the human frame. Prompt
and certain relief will be obtained in all cases of
Kidney and Liver Disorder, Rheumatism and
Urinary deposits, to be followed by Permanent
Cure.
Vim, the Vigoriser.
Of all Chemists in Australasia, and of the
Manufacturer,
H. WESTALL GUEST,
At Vim Laboratories, Golden Key Pharmacy,
220 Bourse Street,
MELBOURNE.
QH ( fITe a MOUSTAOHEII
Capillarine!
pgr° The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
OItAIG A AITKEN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
se's Malglockchcr
LUjofllieVaueW
CUSTWIOHS*
LOHSE’S
MAI6LOCKCHEH
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET°SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'perfumers.
'GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
Medical.
L.R.C.S. L.M.R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient lias he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE HO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, 1 ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains,in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee' includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.rn. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m, to 5 pan.
Saturday —9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings : Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
it ST Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
please quote this paper when writing.
Medical.
Or. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
I
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more Un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful rs
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send Gd. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in yout
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If y«n do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should bo
addressed
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
c to mention this paper when writing
CONSULTATION i’UER


Outlery
By I'osti
df
Cxx 11 er y
By Post.
this RAZOR, black handle, 64L, each (post f 03). Fine-finish, Ivory Handle, 128. 6d. each (post free).
W. JNO. BAKER, Wholesale, Retail, and Practical CUTLER,
G S T IR, IE IE T, SYDNEY ZST. S- W,
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
-
am
i
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best subuib cf Sydne3'. Terms very model ate.
T. ItKOWJV, Proprietor.
fflUfiEßß
Smp& ST
o&fBEST
o@vi m
machine
|H
tH e
WsrHD
- SK
.!h£
Before 'purchasing any other
sen’d for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
Mol
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
GRAHAM’S
PREMIER BRAND » BOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
"PR ETViri^TO f ” V °Ti, W 1 P ubli ?> th ®y having completely established their claim to the title of
SOLD DIRECT ToiSwhSM’ quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, l and
Pairs MAILED
Try Them.
DEPOTS—32O
George Street, 141 King Street, and 2.00 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ECQipng soap which has no equal
for al l cleaning purposes cxeepf ifi
me laundryTo use it* is to value tK
h . .. *** wiU SAPOIIO do? Why it will clean paint, make oilcloths
bnght, and give the _ floors, tables and shelves a new appearance It wm
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pan™ You can
u ? 1V ® S an f° r^s with it, and make the tin things shine briehtlv Tlia
wash-basin, the bath-tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pm if you use SAPOLIO. One cake will prove all we say Be a
clever housekeeper and try it. 7 6 a
OF IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT ONE SAPOLIO,
ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS CO.. NEW YORK
SOLD BY GBQCEBS, CHEMISTS, AND IBONMONGEBS.
A. AND J
. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN
WELL BORING'TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
nw
-V?
' 'V\ •; •
The only TUBES used by all the Governments ot Australia.
Manager for Australia—*l". j '
MMII , ri u T ■nr- *“* * J ' VJ ~ a ' C V villia,m, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE
jhjp]
THE
‘Plum’
j s “P erior fc<) anything that has ever been offered to the public
gmranteeeachrazOT^for 1 two U Ifc'neTOr if ri ?*?. like *«* «*dy for use and we
selves they cannot possibly do better' than to try this pSSfrbmnd t 0 gGntlemen who shave them *
Price
/Single Razor, in strong leather case,
(.Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ;
6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
****** and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKIN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT A KODAK.
3VC A D E
—m—
FIVE SIZES.
sdf
sd
PULL the
STRING!
PRESS the
BUTTON!
We Do the Rest!
SIEZUTID IFfOZR, InTIE'W ILLTJSTEATED CATALOGUE
MONTHLY OIBOTJLAB.
BAKER and rouse,
375 — GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY 375
W Directly Opposite SYDKTEY ARCADE.
And at 256 Collinsst, Melbourne; 5$ Randiest, Adelaide; 46 Queenst, Brisbane.
SAYWELL & CO.
DEPOT
FOR
marvel
ICE S T S^°
mea
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES,
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS CENT STOCK: .
St ° am Engine,,, 33oiXora, BnßlnGa ,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS* TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
*** Write us to any and every description of Machinery you may want partrc«arS of
Pnces <* uoted ’ and y° ur enquiries intelligently replied to without Sy deky P
IKTSTRXJMEKTT MAKERS
T „_„ nT SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
PHOTnr a Bteaightened ’ anteed P«H Prided Bubbles, ete.
PHOTOGRAPHERS Brass Work Sundries, flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion etc
Pirated Catalogues poatFEEE,
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie 'Plaie, Svdmy.
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their llazors to Grind and Set We are the be.t Bo
Setters in the colony and have the advantage bier all other
know exactly the right edge required for shating, as we are hairdfeesetw oarsijfel and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary. I
I,ADIES.-Send m your .oie.or. to grind »d fSp^r; vr. ««
680 & 682 G-eorge Street, SYDKtEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL, FIND
HOTEL
A njw'ican . £ leva Ur.
Modern Sanitary />&-
firoitcments. Electric
Light, Special arrange-
ments for Families.
l/1/6/ sxpart-
went* and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &ec., are easy of access.
q- 11+u Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, B.W.
eplete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMBS BAILEY, Managing Director.
“TALES of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”


The Bulletin
Vol IS— Ko.esc.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1393.
Price, 84^
THE N.B.W. POLITICAL “SITUATION.”—THE “RISE OF THE PEOPLE."
NATIONAL ASS: “Now, if I could only shoot his tail off, he’d drop!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia foi' ths Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum Til 0 0
Half-yearly ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and aeknoivledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
Whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Terse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tile Bulletin will return nil unavailable MSS
When the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But u'B desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
lifter the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also is The Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers’
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa,
Also: - B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter (Wo vincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with ‘,is. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There ivillbe no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
'xlle&rL.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1893.
Gladstone’s Bill.
The Irish Question, the Eastern Question,
and the Drink Question are three problems
which have become so old and permanent
that the world has almost given up expecting
that any one of them will ever be solved.
Mr. Gladstone’s latest effort to settle the
first of the trio—the two hundredth attempt,
or thereabouts, which has been made in the
same direction —does not hold out any par-
ticular promise, and the troubles of the
distressful isle will probably loom almost as
large on the political horizon after the pass-
ing of that measure —if it ever is passed—as
before. There is a hard, unyielding conser-
vatism about the so-called “Home Rule”
Bill, it is hedged in by so many limitations
and conditions and cast-iron resti’ictions, and
withal the “Liberal” Party is filled with so
insensate a pride at its own reckless liberality
in creating the miserable thing, that the
spectacle is pitiable. It is amazing to reflect
that the most advanced description of English
Liberalism could offer so little, and it is
amazing to consider what English Con-
servatism must be like, seeing that it offers
much less. Already the end of the Home
Rule Bill can be seen on the far horizon.
If it does not pass, the present discontent
will remain, or increase in violence. If it
does pass there will be a brief interval of
comparative contentment; then Ireland will
realise that its new-born “freedom” is a
delusion, and out of this disappointment will
arise a more bitter animosity than before.
Then there will be strife between the Parlia-
ment at Dublin and the Parliament at Lon-
don, and all attempts at serious legislation
will be crushed by the vice-regal veto, and
the Irish members of the Imperial Legisla-
ture will demand a further measure of auto-
nomy, and the Irish question will rage at
Westminster as furiously as of old. And,
lastly, the English people will be filled with
amazement at the ingratitude of Ireland for
the emaciated measure of liberty conferred
upon her, and will decide, almost unani-
mously, that concession to Erin is a failure,
that the Irish are “incapable of self-govern-
ment,” and that coercion is the only true
remedy after all.
The principal points on which the pro-
posed scheme will assuredly be wrecked are
the Customs and land questions. Ireland
is to start with all the blessings of Party
Government. It is to have an Upper House
lasting eight years, and a Lower House
whose duration is to be six years. Both
these bodies will be elective, but as the
Upper House rests on a solid property
qualification it will represent principally
capital, while the other Chamber will repre-
sent manhood, and Ireland is thus to be
endowed with all the elements of eternal
discord from the very beginning of its new
career. The Irish Parliament is to have
control of the local excise, income-tax, postal
and telegraph revenue, and Crown lands,
and it will contribute a certain fixed per-
centage of the Imperial revenue. But it is
to have no voice in the appointment of the
Viceroy the imported Englishman who
possesses the right of veto upon all its acts ;
no control of local defences—which means
that the land will still be garrisoned by British
troops as of yore ; no power to exclude
aliens ; and no authority to impose or remove
Customs duties. And among all these re-
strictions, the proposed measure of Home
Rule is a visionary affair and of no account.
* * *
The proviso whereby Ireland is to be per-
manently chained down to the Freetrade
superstition is sufficient, in itself, to bring
about disaster. The destruction of Ire-
land dates from the inauguration of that
fetich. Freetrade has long since ruined the
agricultural industry in England, but though
it conferred no benefit on the manufacturing
or commercial interests it did not cause any
immediate decadence in these two lines ;
they started on the downhill track very
slowly, whereas agriculture went to almost
immediate ruin, and for many years they
supplied some kind of employment to vast
numbers of the impoverished and starved-
out peasantry, and served to break England’s
fall. But Ireland, which had few manu-
factures and exceedingly little native com-
merce, went down with a crash. It depended
almost entirely on the branch of industry to
which Freetrade brought immediate collapse,
and the consequence was unmitigated dis-
aster. Until Freetrade came it bore up
tolerably well even against rack rents and
absentee landlordism, but Cobden’s great
device was the last straw on the back of the
already overladen camel. Since its inception
Ireland has been the only country in
Europe with a heavily-declining popu-
lation—the only one which the test
of experience proved to be practically
uninhabitable. The demand that Ireland
shall be chained hand and foot to England’s
Freetrade god makes one-half of the land
question—the question which has agitated
the country more than any other—abso-
lutely impossible of settlement. It also
demonstrates clearly that Freetrade is not
regarded, even by its own prophets, as being
beneficial to Ireland, else it would bo
trusted to maintain the system in its own
interests; the country is simply a place to
be exploited, and the Irish markets are to bo
kept open by force for the benefit of English
traders and manufacturers. And, apart
from these material considerations, this
restriction altogether destroys the alleged
concession of Home Rule. Ireland is, nomi-
nally, to be allowed to legislate on all purely
Irish affairs. Its fiscal policy is a purely
Irish affair, and that being excepted the
whole theory falls to the ground. England
never dared to demand—and to enforce the
demand by means of an army of occupation
—that Maoriland, or Victoria, or New South
Wales should adopt any British tariff, and
when such a demand is made upon Ireland
it can only mean that the reign of coercion
is to continue very much as before.
» m •
Having thus provided that one-half of the
agrarian trouble shall be past remedy, Mr.
Gladstone next proceeds, in another way,
to carefully conserve the other half. Ireland
is mostly a country of large estates; the popu-
lation is almost entirely agricultural, and
almost every agriculturist is a mere tenant.
Also as, for want of other available occupa-
tions, he must remain an agriculturist, however
hard the conditions under which he labours,
he has gradually becomeabout the most villain-
ously rack-rented tenant in Europe. Ireland
pays a larger proportion of its wealth in rent
than any other country between the Urals
and the Atlantic ; and as the majority of its
landlords are more or less chronic absentees
the annual drain upon the country is enor-
mous. The abolition of rack-renting, of
absenteeism, and, if possible, uf the whole
system of landlordism, are remedies that are
more urgently wanted in Ireland than in any
other European country, and the establish-
ment of a Council on a property basis—•
practically a House of Landlords—will be a
tolerably efficient guarantee against any
effective movement in this direction. As
that House will be at least nominally Irish in
its composition, Ireland itself is thus made
to be the buttress and security of the worst
evil by which that country was ever afflicted,
and when the nation, thus fettered and han-
dicapped, fails—as it almost certainly must
fail—to provide a remedy for its own troubles,
the fact will be quoted as crushing proof that
it is unfit for self-government and that
autonomy is a failure. And if, by any
chance, the House of Landlords fails to
block the way, the vice-regal veto will pro-
bably do so instead. That veto, it may
safely be asserted, will be used with con-
siderable freedom. It is practically extinct
in England, but then the circumstances
of the two countries are different; it is one
thing to oppose the will of the Parliament
of the Empire, and quite another to veto a
ragged and half-finished Legislature with
little more than the powers of a County
Council or a body of municipal representa-
tives.
* # 8
Two other points are significant. Irish
titles arc to be conferred, not upon the
recommendation of the Irish, but upon that
of the Imperial, Executive ; in other words,
England reserves to herself the most con-
venient and effective means of bribery yet
invented—the same means which were found
so effective in corrupting the Irish Parlia
ment of last century, and which have served
to corrupt so many colonial Legislatures of
more recent years. And, in the second
place, the Irish constabulary—which is a
semi-military body- is to be retained on its
old footing for the present, and only
“ eventually ” to be replaced by a force con-
structed on the ordinary police model —
which means, in effect, that the Irish
Parliament will begin its work under
the supervision of two English armies
of occupation, somewhat after the fashion of
the last Polish Diet, which pretended to
legislate while Russian soldiers mounted
guard outside the ancient senate house at
Warsaw. Almost the only logical idea in
the whole scheme is that which provides that
Ireland shall be represented in the British
House of Commons by 80 members, who will
be allowed to vote on Imperial matters only,
and not on questions affecting Great Britain.
Yet this very circumstance places them in a
curious and anomalous position. A holder
statesman than Gladstone would have
solved the whole vast problem in one act by
establishing, at one and the same time, local
Legislatures for England, Scotland, Wales,
and Ireland, and by making the Parlia-
ment at Westminster an Imperial body
only. The demand for such a division
is steadily growing, but, unfortunately,
it is always the leaden policy of British
statesmanship never to provide a remedy
until the evil has become practically in-
sufferable, and then to provide only half a
remedy after all. The Irish Home Rule
Bill is a weak, half-hearted device in all its
details. It is based on the loudly-expressed
conviction that Ireland can be trusted with
the same measure of liberty as any other
section of the empire, yet it exhibits no
trust or faith whatsoever. It acknowledges
the right of self-government, and withholds
the greater part of that right. And it is so
much devoted to maintaining the supremacy
of the Imperial Parliament, that its authors
seemingly had no time to remember that
that same supremacy has been the cause of
all the troubles which they now propose to
remove.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unpaid Patriots.
One “ Henry Dare ” writes to Sydney Daily
Telegraph to point out that the only possible
cure for the impotence, rowdiness, and hopeless
incapacity of the New South Wales Legislature
lies in the abolition of payment of members.
Thus the voice of the typical fat man crying
aloud in the wilderness of printer’s ink ;
Our Legislature is at present cursed with far too many
“professional politicians,” individuals “living on the
job,” who, if deprived of Parliamentary emoluments,
have not either the industry or ability to earn a sulwist-
ence ; and for the presence of such persons in the House
the pernicious system of payment of members and the
appointment of useless commissions are largely respon-
sible. I would suggest that at the next general election
every elector should make it a test question to candidates,
“Are you in favour of payment of members by the
State ? ” And I cannot believe that in my native country
the spirit of patriotism has sufficiently decayed to prevent
a sufficient number of men capable of legislating without
any desire for pecuniary benefits coming forward to use
their utmost endeavours in restoring our commonwealth!
to its former position of solvency and prosperity.
“Henry Dare” is of no personal importance,
but he represents the multitudinous voice of
capital, and the capitalistic cry is- obviously
going to be that, as the paid Legislature is
incompetent and a failure, therefore payment
of members must be the cause of the failure,
and the road to efficiency and purity lies in the
re-establishment of the old gratis variety of
politician. And the country is so exceedingly
ready to believe anything that is said often
enough and loud enough, that it is quite within,
the bounds of possibility it will ultimately
accept this view. Therefore, The Bulletin
rises to point out an essential particular which
seems to be generally overlooked—that the
riotous and blatant legislators who make the
N.S. Wales Assembly a pandemonium belong
almost exclusively to the old, unpaid order
which has not yet had time to die out.
They are just the men Mr. Dare is look-
ing for—the ones who came forward to
legislate “unselfishly and patriotically,” and
to take nothing except such benefits as
they could secure by striking patriotic atti-
tudes and ministering to their own egregious
vanity, or grabbing office, or getting Govern-
ment billets for their hangers-on, or having
roads made through their property by the
“ unemployed,” or selling bits of laud to the
State at exorbitant prices, or by hiring out
their dignities to bogus banks and insolvent
public companies. The loud, blatant, blas-
tiferous politicians of N.S. Wales, of all shades
of political honesty and dishonesty—such as
Clarke, Gibbes, M'Elhone, Abigail, Neild,
Dan O’Connor, Parkes, Want, O’Sullivan,
Walker, Schey, and the like—-were born of the
gratis and purely patriotic era. So were almostall
the hopelessly dull and wooden mediocrities and
incapables— Ken wick, the poet Allen, Brun-
ker, Burdekin, Tonkin, Carruthers, Hen-
son, Canterbury Hutchison, Inolis, “Eye-
glass ” Reid, Parker junior, Sydney Smith,
and many other Smiths, Ydoey Taylor,
little Wilkinson, Wise, Young, and many more
—and the old, stupid party hacks of the present
Ministry, and the last one, and every otlysr Min*
istry. The Labour members', who mostly owe
their political existence to their parliamentary
salaries, are incomparably less noisy, obstruc-
tive, and incompetent than the relics of the old
system ; also, they cost much less, for none of
them have land to sell to the Government, or
estates that want roads made through them at
the public cost. Payment of members, in
short, has been a success so far as circumstances
would allow; it would have been a much
greater success if the old, unpaid patriots had
only died or retired a little faster. The idea of
reverting to the old policy and getting an
Assembly that is all Paxikes and Abigail and
M'F-lhone and Hornsby Burns is not attractive.
The Barrier Mine-Owners’ Black I,ist.
The present condition of the Barrier labour
unions is an example of what unionism may
expect from strikes in the future. A year ago
labour at Broken Hill was all-powerful. In
two agreements with the silver-mine directors
its representatives had affirmed the principle
that no non-unionist should be employed on the
associated mines. When the attempt to form
a Labour-party in New South Wales Assembly
first took practical shape, the Sturt electorate
was the only one to return unopposed a repre-
sentative of the party. The Broken Hill Hos-
pital Board and kindred institutions were con-
trolled by unionistic nominees—prominent
labour officials chiefly, and the powerful labour
influence carried the principle of compulsory
unionism throughout all the trades of the town.
In fact, Broken Hill was justly entitled the
stronghold of unionism in Australia. The
events of the great strike are now ancient his-
tory. During the first weeks of the struggle
which followed on the cancellation by the
mine-owners of the two agreements with their
workmen, a conference might have been held
between the parties to the struggle and
some sort of arrangement entered into.
But the unionist leaders were confident of
their invincibility; they would not withdraw
the pickets from the mines—an essential condi-
tion of the proposed conference—and so no
conference was held. The committal of certain
of the popular leaders on charges of conspiracy
followed, and in the end, after an 18 weeks
struggle, the stomachs of the miners succumbed.
The rout was complete and disastrous. In
addition to gaining all the points in dispute,
the principle of freedom of contract and of
sloping ore by competitive contract, instead of
by day labour, the mine-owners took every pre-
caution to crush their fallen enemy. ” The
famous black-list, containing several hundred
names of those who had rendered themselves in
any way prominent during the struggle, was a
potent weapon towards this end. And, lest the
unions should have a spark of life remaining
after the practical extinction of all their pro-
minent men, a “sick and accident fund’’was
started to take their place, the fees of member-
ship being deducted from each man’s pay
fortnightly. Membership of this society
is, of course, not compulsory oh, no,
for that would be interference with the
liberty of the subject—but anyone refusing
to join was immediately “sacked.” Thus any-
one desirous of remaining a member of the
A.M.A., or kindred societies, has to pay double
fees out of the poor wages earned in a thirsty
and lead-poisoned region. Now, the splendid
organisation, which once included , over six
thousand stalwart men, is hardly represented
by so many hundreds, and its members, instead
of meeting in public and publishing their de-
liberations broadcast, are compelled to gather
in secret, lest their names should be entered on
the blacklist —which means denial of work and
bread. Strikes against organised capital are a
ghastly failure, and the lesson learnt at Broken
Hill should not be thrown away. And what is
the moral? The moral is that, as we have
already said, the workmen will yet have to eat
grass, unless they learn to stick together in
the effort to obtain justice by parliamentary
methods.
Shirt-Buttons and Teeth.
The recent arrest of one Alldridge, at Mel-
bourne, is another evidence of the hideous
monotony of police methods. Some two years
ago or more Alldridge and a mate named
Jacobsen were bush-felling in Maoriland.
Jacobsen 1 either went away or “mysteriously
disappeared ; ” that is to say, when Alldridge
left someone asked him where his mate was, and
he replied that he had “ gone on ahead.” It is
quite common in this world for men to go on
ahead, but from various obscure indications the
police resolved that, a tragedy had been com-
mitted, and ever since then they have been
looking for Jacobsen’s remain*. It was a long
and unprofitable search, but at last, the other
day, they discovered, close to the lost man’*
camp, some charred bones, burnt boots, teeth
and shirt-buttons, and these relics have been
“ fully identified.” Jacobsen iTad been almost
forgotten for two years, yet any number of
people, it seems, are willing to swear that they
recognise the teeth and shirt-buttons which he
wore in 1890, and can swear to them even when
the head and the shirt that they belonged to
have vanished. Probably not one of these
witnesses would be able to give such a descrip-
tion of his own mother’s teeth as would identify
them, or could distinguish a button off his own
shirt from a button off anybody else’s, but that
doesn’t affect the case. Having got the teeth
the police also wanted Alldridge, and
they were not long in finding him. It
w'as the old, old process ; they kept an eye on
his girl in Christchurch, and when he wrote to
her the postmark gave him away. The
“ wanted ” man is always bowled out through
writing to his own or somebody else’s girl ; if he
didn’t w r rite to his girl he might live in peace
and calm contentment all his days. Between
the girl, the buttons, and the teeth, Alldridge,
in The Bulletin’s opinion, may consider him-
self a hanged man. The fact that Jacobsen,
dead or otherwise, has left no near relatives in
these provinces who might be reasonably sup-
Jiosed to have an intimate acquaintance with
lis food-chewing apparatus, is a damning
circumstance. When Peter Labor’s statue was
in progress, about 50 persons, who had known
" the one-armed hero intimately for many


Apropos the Prahran (Melb.) Primitive
Methodist Chapel, adorned with the gilded
memorial stones to M. H. Davies and Munro, the
Amalekite prophetess had a dream of the opening
ceremonial. “ And, behold, I saw an holy man of
God, clad in white raiment, amidst the people,
and he said, ‘in 18 months’ time these, your
golden calves, will be insolvent, devoured by grass-
pillars and cattlehoppers innumerable.’” And
the people gnashed their teeth, and rushed upon
him with one accord, and stoned him with stones
until he died.
years, sat down and tried hard to remember,
for the sculptor’s information, which arm it
was that he had left, and not one of them
could remember. They had seen him almost
constantly for years, and had never noticed
even this exceedingly obvious circumstance.
The average man, juror or witness, in fact,
notices nothing neither Labor's arm nor
Jacobsen’s teeth, nor anything else beneath
the sun ; he couldn’t give a reasonably accurate
description of his own wife, or of his mother;
and if six “intelligent” people look on at one
and the same incident they will give, in all good
faith, six entirely different accounts of it an hour
afterwards. Yet if Labor had left no relations
who might afterwards overset any rash state-
ments, every one of those fifty men might have
been prepared to swear before Heaven that he
knew exactly which arm the ex-Speaker had
lost at Eureka, and twenty-five would have
sworn to one arm, while the other twenty-five
would have called God to witness that it was
the other. It is simply because the allegedly-
deceased Jacobsen had no near connections
that everybody who once saw him casually in a
public-house will declare positively that he can
identify his teeth and his buttons among ten
thousand. And, in like manner, when the
famous Dora Dora blacks are captured they will
probably be convicted on the testimony of any
number of people who never saw them before—
for that matter nobody ever did see the real,
indubitable Dora Dora blacks, except one man
who is now dead. An utterly unscrupulous
desire to appear accurate is one of the worst
diseases of humanity. The average man would
rather hang a casual stranger than admit that
he doesn’t know something, or anything, or
everything.
A Parson on Politics.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), the other day, Parson
Geekie, or Cheekie, or something like that,
preached a sermon on “The Christian Patriot.”
Parson Cheekie, being a parson, necessarily
regards tilings Australian from a brutally Con-
servative and National Ass standpoint, as the
following slab will bear witness :
Extravagance was rife, and, unlike Canada and Scotland,
which were built up by thrift, here the poor were more
extravagant than the rich, and the young than the old.
The people never seemed to lack money to spend on
amusement, and there was a strong tendency to depend
on others instead of on ourselves. The land swarmed
with indolent men, who sponged on farmers and squatters
or congregated in over-populated places and refused fair
wages. Religion was ignored, and though this was the
richest country in the world on the basis of population, it
was most difficult to maintain our churches. Religion
and politics had been dissociated. In politics there was
ruinous apathy, and the State had fallen into the hands of
persons who made politics a trade. Politicians had found
that God was no use to them; but God had also
found our politicians no use to Him. Our school
system was the result of this immoral divorce of
politics from godliness, and the public life was
being affected by it. The best men in the land held
aloof from State'affairs, which fell into the hands of the
scum of the earth. Men of intellect and culture would
not stand beside these persons in the House. Represen-
tative men in Parliament had become fewer and fewer,
till at last we were represented by men illiterate and
irresponsible. It was time for patriotic men to come
forward and assert their rights, and wrest the Parliament
from the hungry and ragged adventurers. Voters claim-
ing intellect and education should unite to send in men
to Parliament who were respectable and of some godliness.
The Bulletin hereby refers to Parson
Cheekie’s accusations seriatim. (I) Scotland
wasn’t built on thrift, but on “whusky.” Also,
the Australian, as it happens, is a great deal
more thrifty than either the Scotchman or the
Canadian ; his savings bank deposits — and the
savings banks, being strictly the banks of the
poor, are the best possible criterion of national
thriftiness average 84s. per inhabitant,
against the Scotchman’s 505., and the shift-
less Canadian’s 16s. The thriftiest nations on
earth are the Danes, Swiss, Norwegians,
Prussians, Yankees and Australians, and the
Scotch and Canadians are simply nowhere.
(2.) The people do lack money to spend on
amusements; as witness the many empty
theatres and unemployed actors, and the falling
off in the gate-money at all kinds of sport.
(3) The assertion that the land swarms with
men who refuse “ fair wages ” is as near a direct
falsehood as anything can be without actually
getting there ; if Parson Cheekie will advertise
for a man at 20s. a week or less, in either
Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane, be will pre-
sently discover this fact for himself. (4.) Re-
ligion is not “ ignored ; ” there are nearly twice
as many churches in Australia in proportion to
population as there are in England or Ireland,
Germany, Austria, or Italy, and about six
times as many as in Russia. Also, there
are more begging, cantankerous parsons
to the square league here than in
almost any country we know of. (5) If the
State has fallen into the hands of persons who
“make politics a trade,” the Church has also
got into the hands of people who make preach-
ing a trade, and the latter is the worse evil of
the two. (6) “ Representative men ” have
become scarce in Parliament for a sulliciently
obvious reason : they are mostly in gaol, or on
the verge of gaol, for bank swindles, land-jobs,
and other frauds. Also (7), voters have been
uniting for many years to send men of ‘ 1 godli-
ness ” to the Legislature —such various men as
Matthew Davies, also Abigail (the latter
now in gaol), Munro, who bad to be re-
called from London owing to bank stinks,
Mirams. Peter Howe (in quod), the frequently-
insolvent Parkes, John Davies, and many
more, and the results were so disgraceful that
the time is near at hand when no man of obtru-
sive “ godliness’’—and there is no political
capital in unobtrusive godliness —will have no
show in politics whatsoever. (8) The rest of
Parson Cheekie’s statements, which we have
not time to deal with in detail, are hereby con-
tradicted in gloho.
• *
A few days ago Judge Conolly, of Maoriland,
sentenced an elderly chemist named Powell to
ten years’ imprisonment for performing an
illegal operation upon a woman named Mrs.
Clark. The only evidence against him was
that ot Mrs. Clark herself ; there was the
usual mass of conflicting testimony, medical
and otherwise, concerning the patient’s condi-
tion, and all manner of other side issues, but
Mrs. Clark was the one witness who professed
to have the slightest personal knowledge of
Powell’s connection with the case. Now, the
law lays it down as a hard and fast axiom that
nobody can be convicted on the unsupported
evidence of his or her accomplice in crime,
therefore Judge Conolly had to surmount the
difficulty by ruling that Mrs. Clark was not
Powell’s accomplice (though she had engaged
Powell to do an illegal act and had paid him
for doing it). It would be interesting, under
these circumstances, to know what on earth she
was.
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos your paragraph in
The Bulletin of 7th January in re a Bimdaberg
planter having been lined £2, for employing a
Kanaka inside a sugar-mill. In this district
(Port Douglas) no sugar-cane is grown at pre-
sent, and yet there are nearly a hundred
Kanakas employed at various occupations —
every public-house in the town having one or
more. The usual wage is “ 10s. per week and
found.” When the present Polynesian regula-
tions came into force, a public meeting was
called here to consider what action should be
taken in the matter. The date fixed for the
meeting was sufficiently remote to allow the
publicans to employ Kanakas to gather their
year’s supply of firewood. Denis O’Brien, a
local publican, took the chair, and a motion
was carried, nem. con., that all persons in the
Port Douglas district employing Kanakas, a
Aveek after date, were to be prosecuted. The
question arose as to who should take proceed-
ings, Avhen someone suggested the chairman.
“Blast yez,” howled Denis, “do you think
I’m going to turn informer !” This broke
up the meeting, and the then state of affairs
has continued in force until the present. There
is, however, a slight excuse for their employ-
ment here. The Kanakas are nearly all time-
expired boys, Avho had been working on a local
plantation. When the proprietor ceased busi-
ness six years ago, the boys’ wages Avere
unpaid, and Ministers, though the matter was
represented to them, have never taken it up,
nor yet will they send the blacks back to their
own country.— Cota.
Dear Bulletin, —For many years —how many
I can’t remember—these provinces have been
looking anxiously for an economical Govern-
ment which Avill cut down all needless expenses
and put an end to the eternal deficit. Naturally
enough they have never found it. Ministers
are paid just the same whether they produce
a surplus or a deficiency. They depend on the
votes of their party, and every party has a tail
which Avon’t vote straight unless its relatives
get Government billets. Therefore, the economi-
cal Government Avbich refuses to make billets
for its supporters’ relatives goes smash sooner
than the extravagant one Avhich finds a job for
everybody and risks the consequences. The
only remedy is to make the remuneration of the
Cabinet depend entirely on its economy. Let
the Ministers be paid by commission—say, 5
per cent, on the surplus ; then a million saved
in the year will mean £50,000 divided among,
perhaps, ten Ministers, or £5OOO each per
annum. When there is no surplus then there
Avill be no Ministerial salary. To make abso-
lutely sure that the surplus is actual cash and
not a mere book-keeping entry, the Treasurer
should be required to devote half of it
to buying up and extinguishing bonds of
the public debt, and pay the other half into
the Bublic Works fund —Avhich fund, by the
way, should be under entirely separate control,
so that the money once paid in can’t be juggled
back again. A i'cAV years of this system Avould
create a race of cast - iron statesmen Avho
wouldn’t make an unnecessary billet even for
their own fathers —men Avho would always be
hungering after economy on account of the
commission, and Avho Avould keep a baleful eye
on eA 7 ery postage-stamp that is used in the
remotest department, —Yours, &c., Titus
Salt.
Apropos of the Maoriland miner Jacobsen avlio
disappeared tAvo years ago, and whose mate is
about to be tried for murder because a large
number of people are prepared to swear
to sundry recently-discovered teeth, charred
bones and shirt-buttons—also apropos of the
whole question of identification, here is
a little story. Not long since a dead
body Avas found in the Avater at Auckland
(M.L.). For some time nobody claimed it, but
at last one Oliver “ identified ” it as that of his
old mate Thomas Chennals, Avith whom he had
worked for many, many weary years on the
West Coast, and whom he knew better than he
did his own father. A day or tAvo later the
real Chennals turned up, and not only
announced that he was alive, but that he didn’t
knoAv Oliver, and had never worked Avith him
on the West Coast or anywhere else. Oliver
apparently, had simply been seized with that
diseased craving to identify something to Avhich
so large a section of humanity is subject.
Every now and then, in the criminal courts
Australia, some unfortunate borrower is prose"
cuted by a money-lender, with another money"
lender as principal Avitness, for giving a fraudu-
lent bill-of-sale over his possessions. The story
told is always very much the same. The
prisoner went to Grapgrind, or Melchisedech,
or Cohen, and raised a certain sum at a very
uncertain rate of interest on the security of his
tables and chairs, and his bedstead, and his
other possessions. The bill-of-sale, by special
agreement with the “ financier,” Avas not regis-
tered, and so was<supposed to be kept an abso-
lute secret between the borrower and the lender.
Later on, after he had vainly struggled to keep
on paying the weekly instalments, and the in-
terest, and the “ gomission, ” and the other charges,
the former, finding himself sinking deeper
and deeper into difficulties, yielded to tempta-
tion, and proceeded to mortgage his “ sticks ” a
second time. Relying on the fact that the first
transaction was known only to himself and the
lender, he went to Abrahamsh, or Rehoboam,
or Moss Tinkelstein, or somebody, and on his
assurance that the property was unencumbered
the latter negotiated a second loan, the proceeds
thereof being generally used to stave off the
original financier. When the story is told in
Court it has one invariable ending : the second
usurer swears that he Avas taken in by false pre-
tences, and that he lent the money in absolute
ignorance of any previous mortgage, so the
prisoner goes to gaol for false pretences
accordingly. What The Bulletin Avishes
to point out is that, in practically every
case of the kind, the second usurer is
a gross and unmitigated perjurer. There is,
nowadays, no such thing as a secret mortgage or
bill-of-sale. The document may not he
registered, but none the less, no matter how
much inviolable secrecy may be pleaded, every
member of the recognised money-lending
fraternity is informed of every transaction that
takes place within the financial circle. In short,
nobody can borrow a cent, without every
Moses in town knowing all about it within 24
hours. Therefore, Colqtjhoun Aarons, or
whoever may be the second shark, knows per-
fectly well that his client is engaged in a
fraudulent transaction, and is rather pleased
than otherwise that it should be so. hor,
when the crime has been fairly com-
pleted, ho informs the miserable bor-
rower that he has discovered his sin
by accident, and he demands instant repayment
of principal and interest —all the interest. If
he is a solid and reliable usurer he adds another
60 per cent, for the iniquity, and demands that
his wretched bond-slave shall hand over to him
all his wife’s wedding-presents, and many a
distracted Gentile has borrowed £lOO on these
terms, and paid back £3O0 —which amount he
probably embezzled at the office —a week later
to save himself from gaol. When he can’t raise
the £3OO, or something worth while, his creditor
generally sends him to penal servitude. If the
workings of the system could be fully exposed,
the usurer would also go to penal servitude for
cold-blooded perjury.
The valuable instincts of trading humanity
shone out conspicuously during the first stages
of the Brisbane flood. For several days the
city was cut off from all sources of supply. Ihe
railway was interrupted, the roads were blocked
by floods, and no steamers could struggle up
the river in the face of the tremendous current,
the floating wreckage, the ugly whirlpool at
Kangaroo Point, and the various other diffi-
culties. A large proportion of the population
was reduced to utter destitution, and misery
and horror and ruin were everywhere. And
thereupon, almost every shopkeeper in the
famished city proceeded to raise the price of
food about 1000 per cent., and made hay while
the rain fell. The cast-iron law of demand
and supply came into force; Brisbane and its
suburbs, with a population of nearly 100,000
souls, was on the verge of starving, and its woes
were coined into money by everybody who
could find a chance to trade upon the universal
disaster. It was all so strictly in keeping with
all the axioms of commerce that hardly anybody
seemed to realise the inhuman callousness of
the proceeding. The trader who had the neces-
saries of life for sale had paid no more for his
goods by reason of the flood, and needed no
more profit to keep his business going ; his one
excuse was that thousands of people were
homeless, ruined and hungry, and he at once
laid himself out to add to their miseries and to
aggravate their destitution.
How Mr. Henry Sharkes does envy (and
despise) Mr. G. H. Greed !
Rumoured that the gilded R. H. D.
White will be the new Vice-President of the
N.S.W. Executive Council. If so, he will be the
only rich man in the Ministry.
Pilcher, Q.C., M.L.C., after getting the
public holiday for polling knocked out of the
N.S.W. Electoral Bill, is now trying to abolish
payment of members. Mr. Pilcher, apart from
his enormously lucrative practice, is an extremely
wealthy man, and married the daughter of a
Western Midas. The biting cares of the world
won’t trouble him.
Melbourne tramway workers are disgusted
with their Mutual Benefit Society—the society
which was boomed by the directors, and is blasted
with their blessing. The Mutual Benefit Society
was imposed upon the men who wanted a union a
few years back, and is for the mutual benefit of
the shareholders. In reply to the men who again
talk of forming a union, the directors loftily assert
that they will countenance no association “ that
has for its purpose coercive measures, and which
would interfere with the discipline of the com-
pany.” Coercive measures would appear to be
the exclusive privilege of the syndicate. The Co.
has just succeeded in coercing its employes into
giving up a further percentage of their earnings.
The next session of the Maoriland Parlia-
ment, commencing about June, may see trouble
re the leadership. Premier Ballance, it is averred,
can never return to the House. Reeves has
wrecked his chance of leading by an incautious
“aside,” which raised a storm that lasted the
whole afternoon, and brought the Premier back
from a sick bed. Dick Seddon is too fightable ;
Native Minister Cadman is too quiet, and Minister
Carroll, his clever half-caste associate, too lazy ;
1 Mackenzie won’t fill the bill, and there remains
but Ward, the Postmaster-General, urbane, politic
and popular—the only man whom the House
would endure. But business affairs engross him,
and so it is possible that Stout (now in the Council)
may be found leading after a dissolution.
THE VOTE FOR “THRIFT.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Deep I delved into the time-piled life-vein
Of the geologic past to attain
Th’ unwrit solution and unwind the skein
Of long-forgotten life,
Of post pliocene life.
Firmly fixed beneath earth’s close-knit sutures,
Jumbled up with mammoth fossil features
Of immense, ungainly, cruel creatures,
Lie records of a life
An embryonic life.
Rough, early promise of what now we sight
?» Viewed I in that first dawn of feeble light;
* Carved antler, chipped flint, and shade of
Might !
A flinty-pointed stake,
A blood-anointed stake.
The mass was evidently divided
Into clear classes wherein that highfed
Exploited the others all till nigh dead
With this sharp, stony stake,
This fossil, flinty stake.
Ah, alas ! I see its progress winding
Thro’ Time’s dark cavernous depths; there finding
* Creat growth ; waxing strong and round it
’ binding
The Divinity of Property,
The stake of Thrift and Property.
BULKGRASS.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“One who Knows”: Thanks “ E.A.H.”
(Newtown): Good yarn. Good old lie—“ Bludyard
Kipling'”: Evidently the missing word has gone to your
head “ 5.8.” (Melbourne): The young man’s name is
very much against him. All the same, we’ll enquire
about his “ cornet solo ”,... “ Braidwood ” : Gone where
every politician’s promises go. Gehenna is paved with
political programmes.Kyrle Nutt”: Good, though
slightly libellous here and there “ Old Man ” : Vour
“comic verses” sound exactly like a big grindstone
gritting on the teeth of a broken saw “XLCR.”:
We don’t care to state in so many words that the
Rev. , of Sydney, will ultimately be found dead
in an unmentionable place. Nor that Politician
is the father of two half-caste children. King up
the two gentlemen on the telephone and tell them
these things yourself “ Phaon ”: A hopeless erup-
tion of wasted dictionary. You can’t describe a
goldfield “Junius”: Your garish picture of Aus-
tralia in 2056 a.d., when the country is plated with
gold, and melted gold is pumped up from the bowels of
the earib, and nearly everybody has £1,000,000 per
annum, is too clumsy. More likely, in 2056, the coal
deposits will be exhausted, and a shivering race will be
trying to make a fire with decayed fish... “ Sam. R.Q.” :
The tale of the miner who fell down dead at the sight of
a Chinese baby is declined for various reasons “The
Bralga ” : Very dull. Bush sporting yarns are dreadfully
alike “ The Owl” ; After reading your poem we shall
always think of you as the H0w1....“ Mosquito” : The
same eternal tale of the good young dude turned
loose among the savages of a horrid cattle-station
“E.E.”: To appreciate the gradual perfecting of an
author’s literary stvle in one novel you must read Vanity
Fair “ Baktrax” : Well told, but we don’t go out of
our way to prospect the fields of cannibalism ‘‘Dolly
Day”: As a rule, we detest parodies “ Alarm ”: We
don’t know’ that there is any “champion Australian short-
hand writer.” We don’t suppose that you could find any-
where three men much better than Messrs. Gilligan,
E. B. Loughran, and Lang, of Queensland, Victorian, and
N.S.W. Hansard respectively “A.M.” (Tingha); Old.
“ Nancy Quirk ” : Better perhaps sticky to short
sketches of general interest ...“Paul M. : Too much
nature in “A Natural Love Story.” “Grey Gum”;
Good. Write again.... “ W.H.S.” :We don’t guarantee
any tote. They nearly all “multiply,” and many of the
proprietors are hopeless rascals “Boozer”: Petty
malice “Warrego” :It would mean six months’ gaol.
“ H.ii.P.” : Nellie Farren is.supposed to be about 45,
but exact details are unavailable—“ Peter Bean”; A
crude effort at a tragedy....“C.” : Thanks, but the in-
ference isn’t clear.. ..“Chas. P.”: Many thanks....
“M Gardner” (Sydney): What is the hidden meaning
of that chorus, “ Harry, Harry, the old Green Horn?”....
“ Cokum” (Moonbi): Received.... “H.M.H.” (Narrabn);
You fall off lamentably after the first verse;—
We often are told of the good times old when settlers
bold were free, to murder the blacks and to scarify backs
with their cat o’ tails three times three ; how they
convicts choked ; how they drank and smoked and joked
round the gallows tree; how they laughed and chaffed
and their strong rum quaffed in fiendish corrobboree.
~. “G. Curtis ”: Too much “ gloom ” and “ tomb ” and
“death” and “mouldering shroud” and S‘abyss” about
your verses. They sound like the recitation of the bilious
girl at the school examination—or last Bulletin Xmas
Number ~,“W. Collins”: The parallel between Samuel
Griffith and Benedict Arnold isunfair. Arnold wasagood
man who went wrong. Griffith is to us a bad man who
didn’t go right.... “H.GP. (Waverley): Stilted and
impossible; law upside down, and you don’t understand
either gaol discipline or the effects of lightning...
“ W M.M.” : Not good enough to publish. Also, not bad
enough .“Geo. F. N.” :We hate “fables” ever since
we heard Brigand Stanley drone out his horrible
parable about a lion and a rabbit .. “ F.M.” :
Only misspelt platitudes. Pretty old platitudes, too
“ The Bard of Woolloomooloo ” : What kind of a parson
are you, and where do you preach?—“Growler”:
Sorrv, but the writer of that par. hasn’t any “aunt”
who” is likely to leave him even a set of teeth. .
“Veno”: It is quite sound “Demi” (Narrabri);
If you enact that a man can only sit in Parliament
so many years, why not also enact that he can only
write idiotic letters to the papers so many times?
You’ve had your turn now, so far as The Bulletin goes,
and aren’t eligible to write again “Gaffney”; De-
clined. The principal toothless ghoul with two wives is
too unnatural “Eiram Noremao”: Only an exceed-
ingly ordinary murder with a thud in it. We don’t now
publish thuds... “Logwood Chips”: Decent nursery
rhyme. We sang it in a hoarse voice to the baby the
other night, and he seemed to like it, anyhow ...
“ B II G.” (Adelaide): It was played in Melbourne about
two years ago... “Pepe”; We give up tryingto understand
the many complications of Bridget, and Jim, and the
nigger “ J.S.” (Silverton); Loisette’s system is good.
(2) Take lessons in elocution-it can never be taught
by books “A.M.S.”: “Patriot” unsuitable
“Takitha”: If you could alcoholically allowance your
dipsomaniac it would be all very well. But immediately
he has one drink he wants forty, and not being under
restraint he gets them “ A.M.S.” : You can’t openly
introduce the public to that sort of thing “Anon ”
(Melb.); You don’t reveal the mysteries of the Hamilton
case “ Towerist ” : Shall be glad to hear.from you...
“Jim Democrat” (Ipswich): Extremely sorry space
forbids “The Worker”: All right. Glad to hear
from you again “Waihoa” (Maoriland); G00d....
“ Wattle-Yitake ” : Geordie story as old as the Blue
Mountains ...‘‘Chas. T.” (Wooll.); We await an oppor-
tunity to publish “Thespis.” We don’t remember
Bluff IX class.... “The Moralist”: A built-up, impro-
bable story’. Too many stories are obviously constructed.
You can hear the hodman going up the ladder to lay
down the bricks—we mean the chapters “ F.H.”
(Wilson R., Q-): Horses good, the rest indifferent
“.1 M.” (104); Thanks ; used.... “The P.” : “ The Jones’
Exit” is too horrible . .“W.P.L.” (New.): Thanks....
“ Crawler ” : Straight to the point “ K.G.0.” ; Thanks
. “ Molo ” : Yes, we lost your poem—in the W.P.B
“ W.E.6.” : “Q.” is Arthur T. Quiller-Couch, an English-
mrn, and, in the writer’s opinion, the best English short
storyist alive “The Snapper”: Not of sufficient in-
terest ...“Enco”: Jews were ever a cautions people.
In ancient times they only rode asses because they knew
they were always near ground in case of “a buster.”
“ Rosa Dartle ” : (1) Howling criminal libels. (2) It would
be a breach of journalistic etiquette to send the same
story to two papers at once, unless you distinctly inti-
mated that you were doing so—“D.D.”(Gr.): Thanks.
“Sigma”: Accepted “Omega”; Thanks, we
know alf about it “ P.A.” (Narandera) : One was given
as a fact, the other as a fiction. Why trouble us with
such comments? ... “ Boko ” : But then some at least of
the fire-insurance offices won’t assure Polish Jews against
fire at any price. TheyTl only assure their lives. “L.
Terry ”: The “ Svvagman’s Reverie ” found “written in
pencil oil the door of a traveller’s hut on the Murray,”
and written by a “swagman ” was from the pen of Phil,
Holdsworth, and he isn’t a swagman—Heaven forbid !


XT LEADS THEM! ALL.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to, And
eluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows :
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS
£35,900.000 ; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENNIE, General Manager.
Principal Agency —131 Pitt (Street, (Sydney, N. S.W.
in-
are
Branohes—473 Collins Street, Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street. Brisbane,
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad.,|p. 1.
TheWhiteHorseCellar.
TKe OldßleadL
WMsfcy
Horse
WHI^QtUAH
DIRECT «OH OISTjUtRS.
ALWAYS TMC SAME, PUAC. MCUOVi.
* t£S**n* scotch halt
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
KOYAL ‘Light Ahead.”
Her Majesty’s "Hoodman Blind."
Lyceum “Miss Esmeralda.”
Criterion “Niobe.”
Tivoli Theatre.,,. Harry Rickards.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Rrincbsss “ Pepita.”
Theatre Royal Comic Opera Co.
Fillis’ ’Circus and Menagerie,
“ Hoodmaii Blind” is in possession at
Sydney Majesty’s this week, and at any other
time should be good for a long stay. It is an
effective drama in which the bad man isn’t
hanged too conspicuously at the end, and the good
Inan isn’t struck by too gloriously impossible a
streak Of luck in the last act, and the perse-
cuted heroine isn’t trodden on to more than a
reasonable extent, and things in general are well-
balanced and moderately probable more or less.
There is only one serious outrage on the fitness of
things in the whole story, and that is in the first
scene, where a lawyer in poor circumstances and
with a dwindling practice strangles his new client
—almost hi§ only client, in fact—in his own office.
Such recklessness as this isn’t common with
lawyers, who are a slimy, boa-constrict Or-like race
and not accustomed to take risks. Otherwise
“Hoodman Blind” is eminently satisfactory;
Mr. Rignold has engaged a new heroine in the
person of Miss Lilia Wilde, and that little lady
promises to fill a gigantic void, and to supply a
want as large as a cathedral. The point in every
sensation drama which decisively tests the heroine’s
capacity is that where her husband—being deceived
by the lawyer, or the rejected lover, or the squire,
or the old gaffer in gaiters - bursts iu and wrecks
his once happy home, and curses his astonished
wife in her best frock, and heaves her through the
front door with objurgations and without any
reasonable explanation, finally leaving her in-
sensible, with her golden head against the door-
post. Miss Wilde is one of the very few actresses
who can be suddenly rushed by a bloodshot
maniac in this fashion and yet seem absolutely
natural and unaffected—she could probably look
unaffected while she was being bitten by a dog, if
necessary. Also, she is pretty and graceful
enough to explain why the yellow lawyer is ready
to sell his poor, pai’chment soul to possess
her, and why everybody else is in love with her
more or less.
Mr. Rignold plays the
husband of tuis winsomecreature
in a massive and effective
fashion, and bis half of the
eurse-scene is also very satis-
factory. Mr. Rignold has im-
proved. a good deal in curses
of late.; possibly he has gone
out and cursed himself in the
wilderness for practice, and has
thereby got up Some new effects.
The, other characters are many,'
and include Mr. Norman, as
the yellow lawyer with the
slouching mouth and the mangy
visage ; Mr. Sterling Whyte,,
as the dirty, stubbly, dried-up
lawyer with the short, rusty
pants, and the rusty coat, and
the half - inch of visible sock,
and the necktie which looks like
an unplean hangman’s knot round
a stump of stringy-bark; Mr.
Tolano, as the oldest inhabitant,
and Messrs. Sweeney, Glover,
and Walton, all of whom assay
several ounces to the ton. Also,
there are a butcher, a chimney
sweep, a blacksmith, a cripple,
a dreadful-looking old woman,
and eight policemen. A vLw
of the Thames embankment by
night is on.i of the heist things
which artist Clint has produced
fpr a considerable time. The
management, on the first night,
allowed this effect to soak in
for fully five minutes before
proceeding with the drama,
and when Mr. Rignold came on
in rags and wanted to plunge
into the centre of the landscape
and drown himself, it seemed
like profanation.
** * *
A new drama, described as
* 1 Light Ah ead, is to be prod uced
at Sydney Royal on Saturday,
and until then “The World Against Her’’intends
to pursue its devastating path, regardless of con-
sequences. As this show progresses, it becomes
evident that Mr. Baker’s villain is its principal
support. He is quite unlike every other villain
up to date. The stereotyped stage fiend is a
bleak, scowling, unhappy person, with a big voice
and big fists; he is absolutely joyless, and even
uffien he laughs he does it like a lost soul
who drinks molten fire and stirs the liquor
\yith his tail. Mr. Baker, on the contrary,
seems happy all through. He laughs joyfully
when he is concocting his murky schemes ;, he
laughs in the happiest manner possible when they
succeed ; and he goes away like a smiling infant
when he is found out in the last act. The prin-
cipal saint of the play is grim and miserable all
through, but the bad man is like a lost and damned
Mark Tapley, and hasn’t a care on his, broad
shoulders. Also, he is obviously in good health,
while the hero looks bilious, as well as mentally
wretched, and is obviously a young man that
doesn’t feel at all well.
** * *
The transition from Pantomime to Bur-
lesque, at Sydney Lyceum, on Monday, secured
the enthusiastic cat-calls of a delighted gallery
and the thinly-veiled joy of the packed dress-
circle, which was in its place before the curtain
rose trying to look awfully bored. “Miss
Esmeralda’’ opened the second Gaiety season,
and Plough the present people don t entirely come
up to the old Co., the revival is a cheering experi-
ence, if you except Esmeralda in a wig like the
scalps of two dozen gold-washed Flossies, and
singing her music as if it wore her face out, and
Addie Conyers’ Captain Phoebus, which fell as
flat as a pancake. Addie—unlike Nellie Farren
and little Katie Barry, who are very mannish
j n tights - is a gushful, girly thing, and
you can always see the hair-pins, as it
were, underneath the rakish helmet. They have
re-stuffed “ Esmeralda ” with locals; and the new
songs, topical duets, a larrikin song by Lolinen
(whose feet are far too English for him ever to
P a - s S muster at “ Chowdair and a coster in an
advanced stage of matrimony with a little nipper,
all made the spectacle as fresh as if it had just
come out of the literary docks. Lonnen, Court-
neidge, Bert Haslem, Alice Lethbridge, Katie
Barry, and Alice Leamar (in a restful sort of
part), encourage the joy of the audience, and the
dresses and sets kept the gorgeous blue and gold
plush circle well in countenance. A proof of the
hilarious start made by the Gaiety crowd was that
the unappeased roar of the encore man brought
Lonnen to the footlights begging himself off.
*
mu u j m- rtl - /, , . ✓ , • , * , , .
The feydney livoli (late Gavnck), under
Harry Rickards management, is doing better
than ,fc eVer dld be ‘ ore -, A lar S e amount of money
and gorgeousness has been expended on it, and
the shclmg-roof has been got into working order
i ust as the bad weather has set in. Also, a large
P r °g ramme has been arranged, _ and Rickards him-
se,f Was encored on the opening night until he
became hoarse. A new minstrel company—there
is noend of minstrel companies just now—has taken
over the ,°U‘ ra House. It includes* among other
things, tim Faust Family and the London Bell-
rmgers - Horace Befit—he of the unctuous, fruity
Voice-has joined the co. at the Gaiety. A two-
le ££ ed P’g lS on exhibition at the Coogee Aquarium
~~ no relat,on to the parliamentary hog, but a
genuine animal made of pork. He is a brute of
unfinished aspect, and seems, by the sadness of
hls countenance, to realise that fate has been un-
kind to bim *
* *
The accompanying portrait represents Mr,
g Mayne, general manager for Messrs. Brough
and Boucicault. Mr. Mayne is a native of
Belfast, and made his first appearance in 1880,
MR. ALEX. MAYNE (Manager, Sydney Criterion Theatre).
when he gave readings at the Langham.
Egyptian Halls, London, with much success. He
came to Australia in 1886, and the Much-Travelled
Smythe, attracted by his extraordinary, elocu-
tionary talents, induced him to give a. series
of readings at Melbourne Town Hall., In
the same year the firm, of Brough and
Boucicanlt was formed, and Mr. Mayne
became manager fpr the firm, which post he
has held ever, since. He went to England' as
B. and B.’s representative in 1891, and secured
for them the Australian rights of all Pinero and
Grundy’s new comedies. Mr. Mayne is an aotor
of a high order, but belongs to that rare variety
of the profession which rather shuns the footlights
than,otherwise. Nevertheless he is still remem-
bered in Sydney for his excellent performance in
“ Held by the Enemy,” several years ago, and in
Melbourne for a more recent delineation of
Richelieu —a part which gave splendid scope for
his elocutionary talents. He has also appeared
frequently in benefit performances, generally for
charitable purposes, and has established a good
record on every occasion.
* * *
The Sydney Liedertafel gives a concert at
the Town Hall to-night (Thursday) in aid of the
Queensland Relief Fund, and other entertain-
ments, at present no larger than a man’s hand, are
gathering in the horizon for the same laudable
purpose. Some of them promise to be excellent,
most of them to be reasonably good, and a few to
be frankly and openly execrable, but The Bulle-
tin hereby urges the public to attend them all,
even the very Worst, for the sake of the end in
view.
*m * *
“ Niobe,” a play hitherto unknown in
Sydney, is to be staged at the Criterion on Satur-
day.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’ the returii of
W. and M.’s Comic Opera Company from the
grand tour was warmly received on Saturday
night. A little of the old excitement has de-
parted from these annual returns, but the figures
of the principals are still objects of considerable
interest, perhaps, for the reason that the company
aforesaid is one of the few trading concerns with
any principal left to work upon. The bill of the
evening Was “Dorothy,” a grey-haired opera
which dies hard. The aged females who sing that
quaint chorus in the third act ought to have
crumbled to dust by this time, yet they still wave
their crutches and appear more unmistakeably
young than ever. On the other hand, the feeble
sticking up of Squire Bantam by mock bandits has
grown feebler. Time has dealt harshly with the
invertebrate incident, and it never before looked
so sick as it looked on Saturday. Elsewhere
“ Dorothy ” seems to be almost up to the average
of recent years. The memory of its first bright
performance (by Leonard Braham, Aggie Kelton,
Woodfield, Federici, &o.) haunts us yet a little,
but the present cast is harmonious and quite in
touch with the “prevailing depression.” May
Pollard, who now plays the name part,
is always an unpretentious success in what-
ever she attempts a small star who never
fails to twinkle when called upon. Elton’s quick,
rasping method was exactly suited to the character
of Lurcher, therefore his successor carries top-
weight in this event. Nevertheless, George Lauri
makes what the sporting papers would call a
gallant bid for victory. Some of his business has
a fragrance that is all its own, and his funniest
work is effected by the most legitimate means.
When he claws hold of the stage in the Eltonian
style, and attempts to beat the dear departed at
his own game, Lauri lays himself open to objec-
tion. Yankee wheezes offend the spirit of the
scene, and some of Laud’s interpolated humour
seems as out of place as a star-spangled banner
wrapped round the corpse of an old Hinglish
beadle. With these exceptions, the new Lurcher
is a welcome novelty—a sound low comedian,
possessed of considerable singing power. Miss
Clara Thompson does well enough as Mrs. Privett,
and the others a(te much as they used to be. Also,
the general surroundings and background hold
their own against past traditions, and “Pepita”
will come to the rescue this Saturday.
» m * in
The Australian Natives of uncertain ago
continue to wrestle with inexperience at Mel-
bourne Royal. On Saturday they appealed to the
clemency of their fellow countrymen in “ Les
Manteaux Noirs,” without bringing forward any
new evidence for the defence. Two or three
damsels have promising voices and a good appear-
ance, and the same number of young men may
possibly do much better in the future, but
the show, as a whole, is a sad exhibition of
premature self-confidence and unripe mediocrity.
A well-rehearsed amateur crowd, alive to the
fact that it is amateur, could give a more pleasing
entertainment. One dance aroused the feelings
of the house, and there would seem to he a future
before Ada Lernpriere in this department as soon
as she has cultivated a good mechanical smile. On
Saturday the tutor of the company, George Dean,
takes a benefit, with which event the season is
likely to terminate..
** * *
JjJn passant —another Melbourne show has
gone hopelessly bung. Old Jeremiah Brown, the
famous hero of Waterloo and its Cyclorama, piped
his time-honoured narrative in a police court the
other day. The veteran warrior of 101 summers
was commended to the tender care of the local
military, whereupon a local majah volunteered the
sad; intelligence that Jeremiah’s past services con-
sisted chiefly of a peaceful sojourn in the West
Indies, he having entered the army 14 years after
the Battle of Waterloo ! Also, the majah stated
that Jeremiah is peculiarly obstreperous for bis
age (82), and altogether so objectionable that after
bis grateful country had provided him with a home
it was considered advisable to chuck him forth
again upon the cold world. These and further
particulars concerning Jeremiah have called
attention to the extraordinary fact that he
managed to. escape the patronage of Lord
Hopetoun
The weather has been playing up consider-
ably with the roof of Fillis’ Circus, but the water-
pantoinime, lions, and other matters managed to
get there just the same. The last nights of the
tent are now positively announced, and as the
edifice was erected under a lucky star, its last
nights will no doubt resemble most of the nights
before.
** * *
Halls, Waxworks, Siege of Paris, &c.,
glide peacefully along. The Baby Show, however,
closed in a rather tumultuous manner on Saturday
night. Five medicalrefused to issue their
awards until they, had been paid £5 apiece fof
professional services, and this moderate charge fbr
investigating a couple of hundred babies being
repudiated by the management, the five doctors
went away with the names of the prize-winners
locked up in their angry chests. It is to be hoped
that somebody else’s chest contained the full
amount of prize-money advertised for distribution.
Beside a stirring story’s grave-
We snivel, in despair.
Old Jeremiah never gave,.
At Waterloo, a hand to save
That blessed land which Rules- the Wave—
Because he wasn't there.
One tear of sorrow now we crave
For Jerry’s fiction fair.
Chorus—■
Jeremiar is a liar,
Tough, tough, tough:
He was never under fire—
Stuff, stuff, stuff !
First he fabled gently,
Then he came it rather rough;.
Blow’ the liar, Jeremiar !:
Puff! puff ! puff !
He would have killed ’em left and right—
Brave soldier of the Line !
He would have made the Froggies bite
The dust, and bid the world good-night;
But Jerry’s sword saw not the light
Till Eighteen-twenty-nine ;
His unfleshed blade is clean and bright
As ’twas in auld lang syne.
Chorus.
Farewell to Jeremiah’s fame—
Alas! for his renown
It set reporters’ hearts aflame ;
They sang their praises to the name
Of one who was but making game
Of simple Melbourne town.
The latest song is, “ Pie, for shame!
Old Jeremiah Brown.”
Chorus.
At Poverty Point.
pecohi, of Melborno Stinkopolo, is up in the stirrups
again over this question about Madanie Warohesi in-
structing Melba. Nobody thinks of “my seex yaire."
“ Pedex,” Phil. Stuart’s armless man, tells that he was
originally meant for the church, but it was pointed out tc
him that he would be unable to thump the pulpit cushion
and that if he turned over the pages of Holy Writ with
his foot, or dramatically pointed to heaven with his bi«
toe, the pious meditations of his hearers might be dis-
tracted. So he is now in Melb. Waxworks painting with
his foot, lighting cigarettes with his toes, and knocking
the as a off With his heel. He was once in love, but
declines to say what he encircled the girl’s waist with
or how he tickled her Under the chin.
We came across an old acquaintance, the other day, in
Sydney Echo. It was Tub Bulletin’s old-time story of
the meeting of Hadden Chambers and Jim Hall in Lon-
don. The story had travelled back to England and was
sent out again Almost word for word without acknow-
ledgment, and then the Echo headed it “ Australian
Brains,’’ and added that it was “absolutely true”—
which, by the way, is a rash assertion. The Bulletin
never asserted that it was “absolutely true.”
Courtneidge, in an “ interview ” published in Sydney
Echo. “In‘Red Riding Hood,’ whenever I drop into
prose—that is my own.” The Bulletin now quite under-
stands what is the matter, and it hereby beseeches Robert
never to drop into prose again. Also, it would urge him
never again to be interviewed by the Echo ; the thoughts
of a wooden comedian, written up by a wooden paper,
acquire even more than their-usual solemnity. It is like
the sound of a preacher dashing his sermon against a
chest of drawers.
The programme for Lonnen’s benefit at Melb. Princess’
included a list of “pro’s gillies,” who would appear as
club members in the well-known scene from “Money.”
A daily paper, too, mentioned as a specially remarkable
fact that Harry Musgrove would, for the first time, play
a super, part on this occasion. Yet the general public
are ignorant of the identities of these people, and unless
they come upon the stage labelled, they remain as un-
known as ever, except to the small theatrical world which
knew’ them before. Moreover, the people who don’t
know’ them have no burning desire to be any wiser.
“Poulton had a soft thing in Melbourne Royal panto.
He w r as engaged at nearly £lO a week to play an
“important” part, which ultimately consisted of less
than ten lines. Before 8.30 every night he was able to
leave the theatre.
Some IVOO lady- pupils, ages 5 to 45, have been under the
hands of one firm of skirt-dancing teachers in Melbourne.
It is all the rage at private parties; the songbird is
nowhere when the amateur Lethbridge bounds on the
carpet. The correct thing now* is to have a kicking-peg
on the wall.
A friend of The Bulletin’s London correspondent, who
called upon Nellie Barren just after Fred. Leslie’s death,
found her in the depths of wme and grief. She is, poor
woman, in a very bad state of health, quite unable to
walk, and has to be wheeled from room to room in an
invalid chair. She was struck down, as it were, in a
moment almost 12 months ago. She had been out shop-
ping and felt quite brisk, but had hardly got inside
her own door when the attack came on, and from
that day to this she has been a cripple. She is yet hope-
ful, however, of recovering and re-appearing once more
on the Gaiety stage.
Louise Pomeroy was not an actress with any spark of
genius, ry Greek fire, but an industrious technicist. She
was one of the three women who acted Hamlet, in Mi 1-
bourne, the other two being Rose Evans and Miss Cleve-
land. Her marriage in Melbourne, with Elliot, evoked
some trouble, with an advertisement, by him, defying
ahyone to prove him married elsewhere.
The Referee says that “ Percy Lyndal has come back
from Australia with his acting powers considerably
ripened.” Percy has evidently dropped into a snug billet
with “ Charley’s Aunt,” which is good for a run of 2fs
nights, sure. Nina Bouoicault is another familiar nprae
in the east.
Letty Lind dropped a large diamond whilst dancing_
at the National Sporting Club (a benefit perform-'
ance), recently. Next morning she reported The loss
of her gigantic jewel, and it jvas eventually found lying
on the stage. Question ; Did Letty bring that diamond
with her from Australia, and did she “ prize it for the
sake of the giver,” or otherwise ?
Mrs. Dr. Longshore Potts and Charles Harrison, who
were her.* years back, are again lecturing in Maoriland.
Max O’Rell sorely offended the douce Presbyterians of
Dunedin, M.L., by his joke about the reason for Scotch-
men wearing kilts—because their feet were too big for
trousers.
Up South a well-know’n musician, associated with a glee
and quartette club, at their weekly meeting produced the
first part of a tuneful quartette, “a little thing of his
own,” promising to complete it before the next meeting.
One of the singers looking through Mozart’s earlier works
found the quartette aforesaid, note for note. When the
“composer” arrived on the following night and produced
the second part, he found the singers practising the whole
piece from the original 1
||lt is stated that a church and stage union is about to be
effected between a certain vivacious and shapely little
burlesque lady and a demure Anglican curate now en
route for Australia.
Charles Ryley has a double in a young master of Mel-
bourne Scotch College. The unfortunate pedagogue can’t
turn a corner without being embraced by sundry amorous
society females who mistake him for the mummer. He
thinks of applying for an injunction against Ryley if that
individual comes within the meaning of the Act.
Very awful were the contents of post-cards produced in
the Sydney police-court theatrical ease, Tudor v. Tudor,
the other day. As Magistrate Giles said, the P.O. autho-
rities should never have allowed such beastly libels (sent
by the husband to his wife) to passthrough their hands.
Music-hall business, a la Alhambra, Empire and Palace,
is to be tried at the Melbourne Opera House, with
big ballets and plenty of boom. With a grog-ledge
behind the seats, managers would have tried this long
ago, but law forbids. The difficulty is to keep up that
stream of novelty familiar all over England, and only a
regiment of deadbeats can be gathered for the Variety Co.
Charles Bradley writes from the States to report that
he is prospering. One of his plays will probably be pro-
duced at an early date in ’Frisco, with Jew’ett in the oast,
and he is now’ dramatising “The Belgrave Case,” and
“ The Red Cripple ” for production in New York.
Six fighting kangaroos in London. But only one £l5O
a weeker.
Such bad times as the present (remarks The Bulletin’s
London correspondent) have not been known in the
theatrical world for many a day. Penley is said to be the
only man who is making money, although good houses
rule at the Lyceum, St. James, Haymarkct, and Garrick.
One thing is certain, there are too many theatres in
London, and still there are more to come. Daly’s new
one will be ready shortly.
An actress tries to persuade readers of a theatrical
paper that you are safest in your bath, at an hotel, with
the door unlocked.
Lonnen’s hit of Alfred Evelyn, in “ Money,” was very
creditable, but then nearly ail eminent comedians are
men of nous, and can do a serious turn up to average
pitch, if the public will let them.
Janet Achurch, restored by wintering in Italy, re-opens
in London at Charrington’s new theatre. Whose coin ?


THE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
jver all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
nsurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
St,. Julien (Boar’s Head Brand) is the
name given by Messrs. Innes and Co, to their
finest Australian claret. This wine was pro-
nounced by the late French Consul as the finest
Australian wine he had ever tasted. It can be
obtained from all the loading wine merchants and
grocers at 3(55. per dozen. Insist on getting the
proper brand. The wholesale cellars are at 93 and
95 Pitt-street, Sydney,
BURROUGHES
—AND—
WATTS,
BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Mr Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
The Wild Cat Column.
Sydney D.T. has started to scalp the S.M.
Herald of its commercial supremacy. It has, as part of
its plan of operations, just imported from England a Mr.
Nash as its commercial editor, at a salary of £l2OO a year.
Mr Nash has started business by announcing that
banking profits have been materially reduced “at home,”
meaning England. ’Ome will, in the new-comer’s vocabu-
lary have, in future, to mean Australia, else will the Nash
come to be accounted merely an aider and abettor of the
Nashional Ass.
* * *
The granting by N.S.W. Parliament to a
syndicate of the water-rights of certain portions of the
Colo and Grose Rivers, to generate electricity to light
Sydney, will be no guarantee against the Australian Gas
Go ’» present harmful monopoly. What guarantee is
(here that the syndicate won’t coalesce with the Gas Co. ?
The Melbourne crowd who are using such desperate
underground efforts to get the Bill through, is under-
stood to be identical with the set of people who so cleverly
rushed a similar Bill through the Tasmanian House on a
snap division.
* * *
The Melbourne Met. Gas Co. pays, in its pre-
sent time of tribulation, 25J per cent, on the real paid-up
capital. There is said to be a humorous clause in the
Co.’s Act to the effect that the profits divided in any one
year shall not exceed 10 per cent. In fact if half that is
said of the M.G. Co.’s figures be anyway correct there is
a crown of glory sticking out for the first M.L.A. who will
call upon the ’Ouse to bring this monopoly to book.
* # #
Apparently the attempt to float an internal loan
in N.S. Wales has, up to date, been pretty slow. Out
of £1,000,000 offered, £845,000 has been taken up, but of
that amount £600,000 goes in one lump to’ the Govern-
ment Savings Bank, so that the public contributions
really amount to just £245,000 ! Also, “inquiries” have
been made about various other sums, and certain large
investments have been promised “verbally.” Still there
is lots of room for improvement.
# * *
Melbourne Tramway Co. threatens to close seven of its
non-paying lines—those to North Carlton, St. Rilda
Esplanade, North Melbourne, West Melbourne, EeW,
Hawthorn and Toorak—and to “place a watchman and
caretaker in charge.” The next move towards economy
will, no doubt, be to take 10 per cent, off the wages of
the watchman and caretaker. It will be a beautiful
monument to Melbourne’s greatness—the abandoned rails
rusting in the streets, and the watchman keeping a lack-
lustre eye upon them lest they should be stolen by
larrikins, and the caretaker plodding along with a barrow
at long intervals, and shovelling the garbage out of the
subterranean place where the cable used to be, and trading
it off to a Chow for cabbages,
• * #
The last of the Victoria Coffee Palace Co.
(Melb.) was brightened by at least one gleam of teetotal
humour. The chairman complained that the concern had
ceased to pay dividends because people were not satisfied
to “leave well alone.” Their little show might have
gone on making large profits if a number of interloping
coffee palaces hadn’t started in opposition. This was a
most reprehensible way of promoting the good cause, and
the chairman of the old original temperance shop plainly
intimated that the rival establishments ought to have
been pubs. His indignation was even as the anger of a
missionary who, after enjoying the sole right of convert-
ing a large heathen population at a fixed price per soul,
finds a lot of other missionaries coming to sneak away his
customers. One God, one coffee palace, would seem to be
the correct idea.
# * *
“ Commission-agent ” in Sydney appears to be
becoming a synonym for illicit-distiller.
* # *
Tlie lawyers tried to force a compulsory liquida-
tion of S.A. branch of Federal Bank. “ This Court does
not exist for the benefit of the legal fraternity,” Chief
Justice Way is credited with saying. The thing was
stopped, but two days in Court had already mopped up
£lB6. The Adelaideans learned from the Commercial
Bank of S.A. liquidation what the lawyers’ compulsory
system costs.
# * *
The Scotchiness of the Scottish Widows’ Co.
may be observed by the fact that it tendered for the Vic-
torian Treasury bonds for its clients at £lO2, while for
itself it only went £9B.
* # #
Broken Hill dividends pour .£68,000 into S.A.
each month.
* # #
The impending trouble at Greta and other
Hunter River collieries is all in this nutshell. The differ-
ence between the hewing-rates of the Northern and
Southern collieries is not fully represented by the differ-
ence in the nature of the seams. Those of the South are
softer and require less mining skill to cut, nevertheless
miners cannot make anything like the same wages at
about one-half the hewing-rates of the Newcastle pits.
The competition of the Southern collieries lias more to do
with the Newcastle trouble than 1< ss of trade by previous
strikes. But for the cheap, soft, heavy steaming coal of
the South, Newcastle mines and miners would be flourish-
ing like the green bay tree.
9 9 9
The Bulletin is constantly in receipt of letters
from desperately-hard-up men asking where in N.S.W.
would the writer advise them to go and search for gold.
After traveling over nearly every “goldfield” of the
province we confess that we know of none where to a cer-
tainty wages can be made by prospecting. Some say they
would he satisfied to make “ tucker.” To these we reply
there are many places but we can give no particular one
for choice. “ Tucker ” can be made in nearly all the old
and new goldfields by hard workers who are miners or
who have one or more good prospectors and bushmen in
the party. Six months ago several unemployed were
advised to look for tucker in gold-digging. They went ;
and when in Sydney last one of their number called to
thank us. They have made tucker, and having satisfied
the Mines Department that they are on the track of
what might turn out well they are now receiving Govern-
ment aid. They are in the Shoalhaven district. But
there are many other places where altogether 1000 men
can find food in gold-digging for a certainty with the
chance of a fortune.
* * *
Mr. C. L. Garland, of the pluckily-conducted
Mt. Stewart mine, now being visited by the newly-
imported N.S.W. State-metallurgist, writes that the co.
has in course ot completion two new furnaces to deal
specially with sulphide ore. Should the new treatment
be a success it will revolutionise the sulphide industry.
Thousands of tons of sulphides are being mined at Mt.
Stewart.
* * *
It is telegraphed that several large parcels of
gold have been brought to Geraldton from Esland, Lake
Austin, W.A. One of the most successful Murchison
miners, named Corcoran, leaves for Adelaide by the
Massilia with a quantity of rich gold and stone. He has
hank receipts for £ll,ooooz. of gold.
* # •
Mr. Taylor, the just-appointed N.S.W. metal-
lurgist, should be called on a few months from now to say
whether, in his opinion, the present position ami poten-
tialities of the province’s mineral resources justify the
establishment of a Slate metal-works and market 7 We
Bell wheat, wool, and other staple commodities right out
in Australia; and why not our metals?
* * •
The Glen Elgin mine, N.S.W., floated in.
England by little Abigail, now doing his five years, has
after many difficulties, financial and other, got to work
with a 15-head mill. Already some 300 tons have been
run through for 250 ot. free gold. The mine is opened’
out by three tunnels and several shafts, ail on the lode,,
and extending over an area of some 2000 ft. The ore
body is very consistent in its strike, but variable in size j
where the stone is biggest it is best. The battery is
wrought by water-power brought on to a 6ft. double
pelton wheel, and sufficient power is available for rock-
drills, &o. Almost immediately beneath the surface the
ore runs into a large percentage of pyrites and the free
gold proportionately decreases. It is now proposed to
erect concentration and calcining works.
• # *
Want of water has practically suspended opera-
tions in the Zelma mine, Mackay district (Q.). It has an
enormous body of auriferous ironstone and quartz, and
yields 7to 8 dwts. per ton. A 79 days' run of the battery
showed £5OOO profit.
9 9 9
Liquidation and tributing seem the order of the
day at Zeehan and Dundas. The former is especially
prevalent among the Melbourne co.’s, apparently floated
not to develops the mines, but to enable the promoters
to drop out with the plunder. One manager, who
formerly could not make his mine pay, has now taken it
on tribute, and (such is luck !) has struck a nice and very
profitable show of galena and carbonate. The Tasmanian
cp.’s are all for letting on tribute, but they ask prohibi-
tory percentages.
# * #
The fact that the late crushings of the Baker’s
Creek mine have come entirely from what is known
as the big reef would indicate that they still have
difficulty in getting a new lift ready by the time the old
is worked out. Be that as it may the run of gold worked
for over four years in this mine has proved the most
considerable ever found in N.S.W.
* * #
While the companies to the north of Baker’s
Cfeek talk year after year of amalgamation, each con-
tinues to run itself towards liquidation by sinking
separate shafts and doing much unnecessary work.
Surely sufficient has been done to show that the only
chance of success is in the deep ground. The north shaft
is the key of the position, and years hence the atone from
several mines will probably be hauled through it.
* * *
The writer has confounded the three blocks of
the Baker’s Creek Extended with those formerly worked
by the Baker’s Creek South Co. These blocks join the
Southern boundary of the present mine, the management
of which has allowed one of the owners to drive one of the
Baker’s Creek tunnels into the ground, thus obviating
the sinking of a shaft. Whether they are driving on the
vein our correspondent sayeth not. We imagine not, or
the parent mine would have carried the tunnel to their
own boundary. From its varying size and irregular
course this wonderfully rich vein is mighty hard in places
to follow. The gold got from it in the big mine has been
confined to a shoot about 200 ft. long, and it is while they
are on this shoot that big cakes are turned out. The aim
ot the Extended is to discover another shoot. So far, pro-
specting north and south has revealed no other.
* # #
The Eleanora mine, Hillgrove, now owned by
Messrs. Smith, T. Bainfield and W. Neale, and managed by
the first-named, is quickly extricating itself from debt. At
the 400tt. level they are working a big body of stone run-
ning about 15dwts. in gold and a profitable percentage of
antimony, which is sent away in the form of crude and
oxide. The tree gold is extracted by a 25-head battery,
and the concentrates are usually sent to the Willaroo
Smelting Works, S.A. George Smith, the pioneer of
Baker’s Creek, has always pinned his faith to this pro-
perty. Two or three years ago he, with the two others
named, purchased it for £30,000 cash. Work under new
management continued more or less successfully till six
months ago, when Smith himself took charge. Since then
he has almost cleared off a big overdraft, and the way the
mine is opening out in the deep ground justifies the
opinion that the old Eleanora will be dividend-paying
before the end of the year.
• * #
The old Burra copper-mine (S.A.), on which the
writer was born, has been taken over by an English co.,
which, after paying £2OOO deposit on £20,000, is now,
after law costs extending over three years, compelled to
accept delivery. It is a freehold of 600 acres with mineral
rights over another 12,000 acres. In the fifties it was the
richest copper-mine in the world, and turned out upwards
of £5,000,000 in metal. It averaged throughout over 20
per cent, copper, and the rarest specimens of every form
and colour were found in the deposit. Several of the
richest men living in Adelaide to-day owe their fortunes
to the old Burra.
# * 9
The man who went to England to float the New
England emerald show has returned disappointed.
Rothschild was interviewed but was not on—at least at
present. Several offers were made for the property but
they wanted half the mine for the money put up to fur-
ther develops it, which the local owners prefer to do
themselves. The stones have been pronounced by
Streeter nnd others true emeralds, and a market has been
found for them. The distinguishing and extinguishing
feature of one emerald mine floated in London, years
back, was the fact that a true emerald was never found in
it, nevertheless it was floated for £300,000, and by reason
of the smartness of one crowd and the gullibility of
another the shares went up to a big premium. But for
this and other emerald wild cats the only known Austra-
lian true emerald mine would have been taken by the
British public. Time alone will tell whether they have
missed a big thing or saved their money.
9*9
The writer has often protested in favour of the
N.S.W. antimony-workers, who, heretofore, have been
the victims of too many middlemen. A London syndicate
has stepped into the breach as far as Hillgrove is con-
cerned. They have a man on that field who, for some
months past, has been buying antimony-ore at prices, on
an average, £2 per ton more than previously paid, and
it is just this amount which enables a number of anti-
mony-shows to be payabfy worked. Fifty per cent, ore
is now worth in London £i2 10s. to £l3. . He gives £7 ss.
at Hillgrove and supplies bags, and by sending large ship-
ments, and by abolishing unnecessary assaying, sampling,
agents’ charges, and other fanciful commissions, the ore
can be sent to Sydney or Newcastle, and thence to
London, and sold at a fair profit to the syndicate.
May it live and prosper, is the wish of the Hillgrove anti-
mony-workers, of whom there are now a great number.
* # #
A co. has resurrected the Royal Standard mine
at Stewart’s Brook. Some years ago it paid dividends,
and was wrecked by driving a long tunnel. The only
chance is to drain the upper workings or rise in the
tunnel until the rich shoot of stone is reached. The reef
was from 6 to 12 in., the best of the gold is confined
within 80 feet in length, and the average has been about
2 oz.
• » *
Petitions in bankruptcy reported in Sydney
daily papers Wolf, Abel and Co. v. Levy; Jacobs v.
Isaacs. Truly dog has begun to eat dog. Also—most
ominous of all—Sievers, Green and Co. v. Cohen—the
Gentile selling up the Jew to get his monish. Ichabod !
The glory hath departed from Israel 1
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
22nd February, 1863.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Lord Jersey is getting through his valedictory
troubles very cleverly indeed. So great a success
has he made of his tears that one suburban aider-
man, at a meeting where the Governor had humbly
hoped that if he visited Australia again as a
private gentleman they wouldn’t turn their backs
on him, arose and up-ended the situation by
saying that he and his wife were going to England
and they would certainly look His Ex. up ! The
Earl will probably express his cordiality towards
his “subjects” less ardently in future—unless he
wants to turn Osterley Park into a “colonial”
boarding-house.
Apropos, “ George ’’ went very close to the truth
in his final palaver at Moss Vale. “He begged
that they would remember him more as a citizen
and neighbour than as the Governor of a colony.”
Yes—let them remember him as a summer boarder
who simply came out to recuperate !
Viscount “Villars” will long be a cherished
memory in the Moss Vale district —at least to the
girls who attended the last cricket - match—
Britishers v. a local team. Every (pretty) girl
who wore the British colours in her little hat,
either with or without malice prepense, was
amiably bowed to by the Viscount —and, of
course, the salute was returned in nine flattered
instances out of ten. That is the best of being a
Viscount. If a iqere untitled man ventured to
smile to a respectable unknown female be would
be frozen into Australian mutton.
Lady Jersey’s share of the farewelling will be a
monster reception in Government House Gar-
dens (!) on Monday, 27th inst., at 3 p.m., for
which “no invitations will be issued.” In short,
Lady Jersey will entertain the town on the door-
mat ere departing for a higher civilisation.
Though, after all, you really can’t blame
“M.B.J.”for keeping the multitude strictly on
the grass if you remember the memorable occasion
when—at a serai-public “at home’’—people were
discovered on hands and knees peering under the
beds.
The farewell dinner to Governor Jersey happens
at the Centennial Hall on Monday next. Lady
Jersey will adorn the balconies, where light re-
freshments will be served to womankind, to miti-
gate what would otherwise be a feast ot Tantalus,
as far as they are concerned.
Lady Jersey’s last Sydney concert will be the
complimentary one to the gifted Miss Maud
Fitzstubbs (Mrs. Harry Woods), which social and
musical event happens on this Saturday, 25th
inst., at the York-street (Centenary) Hall. As
Lord and Lady Jersey both mean to be present,
and as Mrs. Woods has for years given constant
aid to charity, the concert, to which a large
number of clever people contribute items, will
doubtless be well and fashionably attended.
Courtneidge’s ben. matinee at Sydney Lyceum
principally proved that the big theatre is an ideal
show-place for circumventing the matinee hat,
which tosses its harmless plumes below your eye-
level owing to the beautiful d.c. slope. The bill
was tlie usual olla podrida with olives in the shape
of Madame Soldene, who sang a “Balcony
Duet” with Miss Deakin very electrically, and
secured a howling encore and a bouquet; and the
B. & B. Company, in “Honour Bound,” who
seemed an oasis in the desert of gag*. But I don’t
see why a benefit should always mean a piece-meal
performance in which established favourites risk
their galiery reputation in half-rehearsed comic
songs, and the lion from a rival theatre lies down
with the lamb for this occasion only.
In the “Area Belle,” at Courtneidge’s ben.»
Alice Leamar made what was stated to be her
first appearance in farce, and you would have
guessed it even if you hadn’t been told. She
spoke her lines as if they were blank verse, for
one thing, and seemed in such a hurry to achieve
experience in kitchen comedy that she pervaded
the stage more like a sensitive pussy in a gale of
wind than as a reasonable Gaiety girl going up one
in her profession. By the way, when the curtain
rose on the “ Area Belle ” several young ladies and
gentlemen were surprised on the stage and rushed
off in a panic—as if they had been caught
philandering in a public place. The incident re-
minded me of the time Captain Dash, son of
Governor Dash, was sitting in the middle of
Sydney Royal stage with a ballerina on his knee,
when the curtain rose with a run and revealed the
most charming bit of scandal society had enjoyed
for quite a long time.
“ Hoodman Blind,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s,
deals too much with sin, schnapps and sorrow to
permit many fine feathers. The only harmonious
contrast was afforded by Mr. Rignold’s soft brown
velvet coat and pale-blue silk neck-scarf. By the
way, there was a tremendous deal of kissing in
the play. I have sometimes wickedly thought
that the newer the leadmer lady in a stock co. the
more embraces creep into the “ business.”
The recent projected elopement out West of a
daughter of a moneyed M.L.C. with an attorney
was not frustrated (as was first supposed) by the
gentleman’s faint heart, but by his, fatally long
tongue. He told the plan of campaign to a legal
friend, who, in a burst of confidence, told, another
male friend, and so it got round to pa, who wrath*
fully but plainly told the skedaddlers that if hia
ch-yild married without his permission she would
be cut off with -18 farthings. So they didn’t
elope. It’s a wonder such level headed lovers
ever dreamt of such a thing.
And, talking about elopements, another N-S-W.
sensation, when the lover really got off with and
married the girl and her money, has ended very
dismally: the gay Lochinvar is in gaol for one
calendar year. His sweetheart behaved quite up
to Family Herald standard in court—she threw
her arms round his neck and kissed him, and
vowed that the sentence was only a postpone-
ment of their joy after all. But, to my way of
thinking, the imprisonment of the hero in the
first stage of the honeymoon is the worst thing
that could happen to him —with, so inflammable a
heroine.
I am told that the late Mrs. Mort and Misa
Helen Dight were not actually bathing at the
time of the accident —only wading close to the
bank, and fully dressed, save shoes and hose.
Mrs. Mort fell suddenly into a deep hole, and
Miss Dight rushed to her rescue, but her clothes
dragged her down and both perished. Possibly,
had they been bathing in light suits they might
have recovered themselves, but as people aren’t
taught to swim fully apparelled, the strangeness
and unaccustomed weight of their wet clothing
was really responsible for their sad fate.
The Sydney Quintette Society, for the perform-
ance of chamber music, gives its first concert early
in March in the Y.M.C.A. Hall. There will be
eight concerts in the year—the programme for the
first including a Mendelssohn string quartette
and Raff’s “ Grosse ” trio, never before heard in
Australia; Madame Kellermaun and MM,
Poussard, Rice, Schmellitscheck and Straus form
the quintette society,
A popular Sydney dentist, who had bought five
houses in one of the worst-swamped-out localities
in Brisbane, groaned over his toast and coffee
when he read the news that only 25 houses were
standing in that particular suburb. But later in
the day a wire informed him that five out of those
twenty odd residences were his’n { Such is luck !
The Brisbane flood has quite put a stop to the
latest Northern scandal. The co-respondent had
been forbidden the house, but as she still coquetted
with him other tactics were tried and he was
admitted unsuspiciously as a friend of the hus-
band. One evening, Lothario called and was
entertained at billiards by his hostess, and the
wily detective left them playing. A sudden
return, however—but you see it all. Damages
thousands, but the co.’s assets wouldn’t run to so
many shirt-buttons.
Henri Kowalski, recently elected president
of Sydney Cosmopolitan Club, intends to
make things bustle, and if all his notions
come to pass the club will be an Institu-
tion for the Encouragement of Everybody.
Artists, writing-men, and scientists from other
parts will he given the run of the premises. Concerts
and art exhibitions will be held, and prizes will
be awarded for prose, poetry, painting, sculpture,
music of all sorts —in brief, the club will be a good
fairy to sprouting geniuses of b Very shade of
inspiration.
The latest Sydney club is the “Tennyson.”
Its object is written on its brazen brow. There
will be the slightly dyspeptic young man with
large feet, who will invite Maud into the garden,
and the girl with the snub nose and freckles in-
vidiously telling us that he cometh not. And
when everybody is letter-perfect, the club is going
the rounds of the poor-houses to edify the inmates.
Amateurs always test their arts on the poor and
helpless.
After all, perhaps, the only thing under Heaven
of which the average woman stands in deadly fear
is the creature next door. Take the death of the Bal-
main woman who poisoned herself rather than face
the gossip over her neglect of the servant-girl who
died in her house. It was really the woman next
door (I speak figuratively, of course) who
made her poison herself—the adjacent female
who is public opinion disguised in slippers
down at heel and her hair fastened with a skewer.
After all, a woman who keeps children clean and
out of the gutter, yards swept, beer-bottles hidden,
and quarrels conducted in sotto voce, simply by
applying her eye and ear to a crack in the fence,
deserves some public recognition.
A “ society” house assembled to welcome “ Mis B
Esmeralda ” to Sydney Lyceum on Monday night*
and the stage dressing had a rival in the front*
Mrs. “Jack ” Purves (the cleverest talker, perhaps*
in Sydney), just back from Europe, wore a semi-
Empire dress of black moire and sap-green velvet;
Mrs. C. Ogg, black moire and crushed straw-
berry and silver brocade, very swagger big black
fan; Mrs. W. Mitchell, in ivory silk and guipure,
diamond ornaments ; Miss Florrie Hill, eau-de-nil
and cream. Miss Phillips (who is to marry the
popular Mr. Goodman, the Lyceum treasurer, on
4th May) wore cream silk, trimmed with jewelled
gimp—and, of course, there were a great many
more.
On the stage the prettiest outfits were sported
by the glittering white soldiers headed by Captain
Phoebus (Addie Conyers), in pink and silver.
Alice Lethbridge (whose graceful dancing is most
refreshingafterLeamar’svigorousbounding)looked
best in the white chiffon “serpentine” dress
frosted about with diamonds. Addie Conyers
turns out very smartly in canary and pale blue,
but you miss poor Nellie Barren's magnificent
show of diamonds. Addie ought to set about
getting a few. The chorus are all like butterflies
broken loose, except one long lady (attired as a
sort of she-Crusoe in white hair-skirt) with a great
show of rose-pink limbs. She looked for all the
world like a half-skinned poodle.
Alice Leamar was presented with a lovely
bouquet on the last night of the ’mime by the boy-
sellers of “books of the words.” Now, if I were
a Gaiety favourite, I would take that as a left-
handed hint that I chewed my articulation and
made a run on the booky youths in consequence.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.


iss™
mEi.ua
FOKFIRN A AUSTRALASIAN
ST A Ill'S.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 —all post free.
I> ice-list gratis. Unused stamps
i; 0 cepted. Rare stamps bought.
VINDIN <3c CO,
The, Foreign Stamp Depot,
71 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Personal Items.
Ednie Brown leaves the N.S.W. Forestry
Department; “ Joe ” Holdsworth will stay.
Mr. 0. J. Byrnes, a native of the town,
has been elected Mayor of Parramatta, for the
thirteenth time.
Francis Abigail is understood to be really
so ill as to have a not remote chance of being
released from gaol.
John Dunn, founder of the great S.A.
milling firm of John Dunn and Co., completed
his 91st year on Feb. 13.
Still another variety of Smith. One
Frederick William Smeeth is to be demonstrator
in geology at Sydney University.
Bishop Webber, of Brisbane, drives about
in a magnificent phaeton drawn by a spanking
pair of thoroughbreds worth ,£l5O.
Professor Slickers will, the alcoholic apostle,
proposes lecturing round Victoria, with Munro
and Mirams as shocking examples.
How many Victorian Judges dabbled in
the land-boom, and have had intimate business
relations with the leading boomers?
. “ I’m sick of making money,” used to be
the favourite saying of a Melbourne Flinders-
Lane magnate, now in a tight place.
“King Billy,” the oldest aborigine on the
Macleay (N.S.W.), died on Saturday. He was a
Salvationist and had an Army funeral.
- Adelaide has one man who writes K.G.B.
after his name on the door of his business estab-
lishment. He is Keeper of the City Baths.
H. B. Higgins will probably be the next
Victorian Supreme Court Judge. He is an Irish
Home Ruler, not to say a Radical in politics.
The proposed new Governor of N.S.
Wales, Baron Monk-swell, is poor and was a brief-
less barrister before he hid his identity in a title.
It is complained of Malcolm Fraser, the
Agent-General for Westralia, that he makes him-
self “darned onpleasant” to visitors at his London
office.
When millionaire Burdekin’s name was
read out for £23, at the Queensland flood relief
fund meeting, at Sydney, the audience fairly
howled.
Adelaide people eeem to have forgotten
the memorial they were going to raise to the late
Dr. Richard Schomburgk, director of the local
Botanical Gardens.
Liliuokalani, ex-Queen of Hawaii, has lost
a good billet. She had £19,000 a year—£4ooo
direct salary, £13,000 from certain Crown lands,
and a sumptuous palace.
The Age says Mr. Yardley, secretary to
the N.S.W. Agent-General, “is not altogether
unknown to journalism and letters for he is the
cousin of Mr. G. R. Sims.”
The disappointed
Judge Hartley Wil-
liams must be savaged
by the English papers,
which unanimously
denote him as Higin-
botham’s successor,
with a lot of compli-
ments, and some extra-
vagancies, on his row-
ing, bicycling, pugil-
ism, and what not.
This is the next best
thing to a man reading
his own obituary.
Fre d. Wal s h,
former M.P. for East
Melbourne, is again on
the Block. His father
was the Coll ins-street
jeweller to whom shep-
herd Chapman fetched
gold in 1848. It was
said to come from W.
Campbell’s run. One
can hardly fix the time
when gold was first dis-
covered in Australia.
A. S. VVay has
kicked Melbourne's
dust off his learned
boots and returned to
England. As head-
master of Wesley Col-
lege he was like Higin-
botham’s son-in-law,
Morris, at the C. of E.
Grammar School, and
Pearson, at Melba s
Presbyterian Ladies’
College too danger-
ously Radical for the
little Tallowfats. The
curious thing is, as
Higinbotham once ob-
served in Parliament,
how Australia toils
after England in Radi-
calism.
“I had not the luck, your Honor, was
Hie candid reply of a witness to a N.S.W. Judge,
at Dubbo recently, when asked how it was he was
not drunk upon a certain day.
Edison says bald-headed people die young,
while the hairy live to a good old age. Possibly,
after all, Parkes, instead of being on the eve ot
retirement, is only getting fairly started.
An exploring party is to be fitted out in
London to look for Leichhardt! We presume Mr,
lack Dick Skuthorpe has sold out his right to the
lost explorer’s relics. None genuine unless
marked L.L.
Melba’s sister is now trotted out as the
,-eal pearl of songbirds, but her father, David
Mitchell, would sooner take the Diva off the
boards. Talking opera to him is like talking
horse to Yarley.
Gladstone Liberals smoke nothing but G N U N
Darlings.
The late Parson Hulbert, of Manly, used>
to relate that he once had a parishioner who came. ;
to him to arrange a separation from his wife. ,
He loved her very much, he said, but she didn’t
please his mother.
M‘llwraith has already been a prosecutor
and a defendant in two of the biggest actions ever
tried in Australia. One happened in Victoria,,
the other in Queensland, and the wily Scotch-
man won each time.
There surely ought to be known to the
law such an offence as humbugging the police and
public by pretending that you have been mur-
dered—even if you don’t succeed in getting away
from the wife you meant to desert.
At the dinner to Chief Justice Madden,
Justice Holroyd mentioned that the new Chief
was a pupil of his. “The next best thing,” said
his Honor, genially, “ if you cannot be Chief Jus-
tice yourself, is to have your pupil occupy the
position.”
In the window of a “ Johnny all sorts ”
shop in Market-street, Sydney, may be seen a
family Bible with the following legend :
“ Bagster’s Bible, silver-mounted, formerly the
property of Sir Henry Parkes, G.C.M.G., price
only =£4.”
Gov. Kintore denies that he intends
leaving Adelaide ere his term ends. But privately
he has told his intimates that he will go to Eng-
land in Nov., whereas his five years is not up till
Jan., ’94. Lady Kintore is off in April to set
things straight for him.
James Mirams and James Munro, who
have both come to financial grief, both affected
the “ Federal ” idea. Mirams created the Federal
Coffee Palace, and Munro founded the Federal
Bank. Then look at Mortimer Franklyn and his
“Federal Australian” !
Can it be that the British Government is
hinting to the Tory earls who have been sent to
batten on Australian pay that, on the principle
“the spoils to the victors,” they should resign to
give the noble Whig parasites a chance? Kintore,
Hopetoun and Jersey are all running away pre-
maturely.
James Menpes, father of the now cele-
brated artist, Mortimer Menpes, was in business
at Port Adelaide (S.A.), in the early fifties, and
•was burnt out. Mortimer was office-boy in an
Adelaide warehouse at that time, and was once
nearly “ sacked ” for being caught caricaturing his
employer.
Meteorologist Wragge (Q.), who had so
narrow a squeak during the big gale, wired on
landing: “Fearful cyclone. Barometer at sea-
level —corrected reading—So-and-So. Miraculous
escape.” “Corrected reading” isn’t bad!
Wragge would correct the barometer in Hades
while he frizzled.
Strange, but true, that since constitutiona 1
government began in ’57 there has been but one
Smith in S.A. Parliament, and never either a
Brown, a Jones, or a Robinson. The Civil Service
has at times been crowded with distinguished
Smiths, Browns, and Joneses, but the only official
Robinson was the musical Governor so named.
COMPARING SNUFFLES.
No. 1: “Oh, my cold is so bad.”
No. 2: “Is it? So’s mine, and it’s worser’n yours.”
No. 1: “Well, you needn’t blow. Self praise is no recommendation.”
It is related of Dr. Linton, Bishop of
Riverina, that, in the early days, he visited the
Broken Hill Proprietary mine, and, picking up a
big piece of rich ore, said blandly to the man in
charge, “ We are allowed to take specimens, are
we not?” “Oh, yes, me lud,” was the discon-,
certing reply, “ but not a blanky great ’unk like
that !”
(L Republican Dibbs’ statement to the
reporter, “ the Government will now go to bed,”
has a historical parallel. Johnny Bray, when his
Government was defeated in S.A. Assembly on a
nd-confidenoe motion, was asked by a Register
reporter, “ What are you going to do?” Johnny,
always cheery, replied, “ Why, we’ll go to bed, of
course !”
The defaulting glove-seller, Geismardo,
alleged to bo identical with Prof. Richard, the
electric healer, was a great institution, in Mel-
bourne, in the early eighties. He used to spin
hair-raising yarns of his adventures in the Mexi-
can war, in which, he stated, the scar on his cheek
was received. The giddy girlhood of Toorak con-
sidered it the correct thing to get its hands mauled
over the counter by the handsome foreigner at
least three times a week.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Cannot be over-estimated as to its value for most
bodily complaints. When in need of a stimulant
use it and test its merits.
Jeremiah Brown, of Waterloo, 101 years
old, has been custodied by the police, for being
found exhausted on a Melbourne doorstep, at
1 a.m. Jerry is sober, and drove the plough till
over 90, when an accident forced him to the
Cyclorama, where thousands of the well-to-do
wept over his nobility. Gov. Hopetoun is fortu-
nately absent in M.L.— he said he could not sleep
in his bed if (only) a Balaclava hero was in want
—and a heap of them had- then been s tarving 20
years.
President-elect Grover Cleveland (who, by
the way, seems never to have sent a line of reply
to the Sydney Freetraders) is alleged to have once
been a hangman. He was Sheriff of Buffalo at
the time ; there were two men to be hanged, and
no one would take the billet at any price; conse-
quently Cleveland hung them himself. Then he
went home and was very ill for a week, and for
months afterwards he hung these two men every
night in his dreams. It is even alleged that he
still hangs them occasionally in the small hours of
the morning when his liver isn’t working well.
The late
Duke of Man-
chester was
being driven
through Dubbo
by a Mr. Lackey
when his hat was
blown off. The
driver shouted
to a dirty-look-
in g wheel-
wright, who was
passing, to bring
back the hat.
The wheel-
wright did so,
and restored the
article to its
owner with
“ Here yar, ole
buffer.” Mr.
Lackey looked
much disgusted:
“Do you know
to whom you’re
speaking?’’ “No
I don’t,” was the
answer. “ Well,
I’d have you
aware that you
wire addressing
the Duke of
Manchester.”
“ Oh !” said the
wheelwright,
“and I sup-
pose you’re his
lackey !”
Jack Hamil-
ton, the mem-
ber for Cook,
(Q.), swam the
Brisbane River
in full flood.
This is the kind
of thing that put
Hamilton into
Parliament. He
is a Melbourne
native, and the
best pistol-shot
in Australia.
Purves emphatically approves of Chief
Justice Madden. From the style with which they
were accustomed to wrangle at the Bar. the public
could hardly expect such cordiality; but look at
all the business which Purves now rakes in .
Justice Williams ought now to gracefully cease
making himself ridiculous. How long will he
keep on sucking his thumb ?
The curse of Deeming is still in full blast,
and it seems to have fallen heavily on Max
Hirschfeldt. We are now waiting to hear about
the fate of the reporters who first worked up the
case, and the editor who published the earnest
news about it, and David Syme, and various
other people. Deeming’s curse will get on the
track of all of them sooner or later.
Tt is explained that the ear-trouble from
which the Emperor of Germany suffers is a sup-
puration of “Shrapnell’s cavity,” any pressure
on which causes acute pain, and when not relieved
brings on intense headache, loss of sleep, and
worse. An operation might cure him, but this he
dreads, and only permits palliative treatment.
The peace of Europe hangs on a sore ear.
Three sisters in Adelaide married a sep-
tuagenarian, his son, and his junior partner, the
last wedding took place more than 20 years ago,
and the only sister who is not a widow is the wife
of the old man, now 91 years of age. The same
ancient gentleman started a big milling business
50 years ago, and has outlived all four of the
young men whom he took in as partners.
An old diggings identity died at Parkes
(N.S.W.) last week. Robert Smith, well-known
on almost every goldfield in Australia as “Bob
the Puddler,” came to Australia in ’5l, and
followed gold-digging until the day of his death.
He went to Parkes (“ Bushman’s Lead”), 20 years
ago, with the first rush, and stayed there. Nearly
every miner in the district followed him to the
grave.
Justice Holroyd (in whose chambers the
new Chief Justice Madden studied law) and
Justice Hood, were the only Supreme Court
Judges who attended the legal banquet to
Madden, C.J. Hodges and A’Beckett stopped
away, in a kind of half sympathy with their dis-
appointed “ brother ’’ Williams. The feature of
the dinner was Purves’ brilliant sketch of the
great Victorian bar of the past.
Higinbotham, as Chief Justice, used to
take his notes in shorthand. Once, when referring
back, he was stuck up by an important word, and
there threatened to be a deadlock. The calm
Chief, however, instead of twisting it sideways
and upside-down, as most men do, merely beckoned
to a pressman and politely-asked him to tran-
scribe. It proved to bo one of the very instances
when one man can read another’s signs.
Not long after Parkes was sued by Caul-
field, now in West Australia, on a p.n. the
latter bought from Hurley, Parkes visited Lith-
gow. Hearing Caulfield’s name mentioned—the
B.P. used to run a paper there —he said to the
local editor : “ Can you tell me if there is really
such a person as Caulfield ? I’ve often heard of
him, hut as no one seems to know who or what ho
is, I incline to the belief that h i is a myth.”
Potts Pointers delight in G N U N 1) tilings,
PHMKbI/S
WIIKATRNA.
The Genu of Wheat. A Breakfast Gent.
The Eucalypti; Lozenges for colds, made by
Coletnane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Chief Justice Madden (Vic.) was 25 years
ago a candidate for the small office of librarian
of Melbourne University. Dr. Bride, now Public
Librarian of Melbourne, was also a candidate,
and got the post by the casting vote of the Chan-
cellor. Subsequently young Madden was felici-
tated on his defeat, and told that had he got the
librarianship, his Bar prospects would have been
ruined. Dr. Madden has often been heard since
to thank his stars that Bride beat him.
Victoria has presented to each of the
patients in Glasgow infirmary a facsimile of heat
letter to the nation on the death of the Duke of
Clarence. What a sick man wants is something
bright and cheerful, not too obtrusive, yet calcu-
lated to lift him out of himself, in a manner of
speaking, and Victoria’s letter of grief and wailing
should be just the thing. Perhaps a skull with a
ham-frill round it might have been a shade better,
but, anyhow, things are very well as they are.
The will of Georgina Lowe, widow 0 f
pinkeyed “Bob,” who died in November 1884,
OLD STORY RE - TOLD.
Scene—Parlour of bush pub.
HAUGHTY TRAVELLER ( after taking his liquor): “What the deuce is this?”
PUBLICAN ( mysteriously): “Pain-killer and Worcester sauce."
TRAVELLER : “Pfeugh!”
PUBLICAN ( with sudden indignation) : “You’re mighty proud. Why, tiny're
drinking Horse Embrocation out there in the bar and not a growl
out of ’em.”
has just been proved in London. As her husband
had a life interest in her property there was no
need to prove until his death. Amongst the
bequests made is one of <£2s to Robert Jamieson
—probably one of the two children of Mrs.
Jamieson who was murdered by Knatchbull,
whom Lowe defended. It is generally understood
that the Knatchbull family provided for the
children of the murdered woman.
That remarkable personage, Francis
Phillip O’Reilly, barrister-at-law, of Gore, Maori-
land, has long been engaged on a literal line-for-
line translation of Dante’s Divine Comedy, in the
triple-rhyming metre of the original, and has .been
strongly encouraged in his big task by the
opinions of eminent literary men. Ho has already
done 50 cantos —7000 lines--half the entire work.
He is “half way up the Mountain of Purgatory
and expects to reach the Terrestial Paradise on
the summit this year.” There are other transla-
tions of Dante—for example, Cary’s, done about
100 years ago—and Longfellow’s. Gary’s is a
very free translation in blank verse, and Long-
fellow’s is a' literal prose translation, both being
difficult to read. Byron tried 50 lines as an ex-
periment in the same metre as the original, but it
was a failure. There is also adoggerelish transla-
tion in ordinary verse, by Wright, dedicated to
Lord Brougham and illustrated by Flaxman. “As
English is now a universal language,” says Mr.
O’Reilly, “ I hope my work will give the great
Florentine a wider audience than he has had
during the past 600 years.” Here, as an example,
are seven lines of O’Reilly’s version, followed by
seven from Longfellow :
This ended, all around that gloomy reign
Did trembling shake, so that e’en now oppressed,
The thought with dews of fear bathes me again.
The earth, all wet with tears, sent forth a blast,
From which so fiercely Hashed a lurid light,
That ail my senses were in a stupor cast—
As one with slumber seized, I dropped in fright.
(Longfellow).
This being finished, all the dusk campaign
Trembled so violently, that of that terror
The recollection bathes me still with sweat.
The land of tears gave forth a blast of wind,
And fulminated a Vermillion light,
Which overmastered in ms every sense,
And as a man whom sleep had seized, I tell.
Mr. O’Reilly possesses the most remarkable
memory within the present writer’s experience.
Many years ago he knew by rote “ Paradise Lost.
More than that, if you asked him which was the
40th line or the 287th he would tell you instantly,
without reference to the book. If you filled a
blackboard with figures—say with 300 figures
and gave him three minutes to inspect it, he would
turn his back to tho board and tell you right on:
every figure written thereon —backwards and for-
wards, up and down, from right to left, and from
left to right—anyhow you liked ; and he would,
without again even glancing at the boar l , add up
the whole of the figures, or alternate lines thereof,
or multiply any one lino by any other, and
correctly state the result more quickly than anyone
in the audience having the board before liiin couK
do with pencil and paper. He learned Chinese
chiefly through his system of mnemonics, am
has by it acquired a- thorough mastery of Italian,
and can recite off-hand many thousand hues or
the great work he is translating.
A FEW
OF THE BENEFITS CONFERREp
By the use of Wolfe’s Schnapps: —-Ability o
cvt with appetite, to ,digest thoroughly, an
to undergo moderate exertion without excessive
fatigue.
At. Woollahraytiu can buy G N U IS Darhn gs.


(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney,
and
114 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Price for Cabinet Photographs, 15s, per Dozen,
Messrs. Charlemont strongly commend to" the
public their Platinotype work, it is absolutely
permanent and has with it all the beauty and
delicacy of an engraving.
PEMELL'S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
The meed of merit for promoting personal
comeliness, is due to J. C. Ayer & Co., whose Hair
Vigor is a universal beautifier of the hair. Harm-
less, effective, and agreeable, it ranks among the
indispensible toilet articles.
Life without G N U N Darlings would be a
dreary march.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
22 A 34 Clarcncc-strcct,
SYDNEY.
.
mM.
ARTESIAN
■Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 21
Clarence St., Sydney.
df
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. Assembly has shunted its Opium
Bill till next session. Nicee man, Plemier
Pattleson.
If a progressive income-tax, why not a
progressive land-tax ? There Ire 40 better reasons
for the latter than for the former.
John Davies, M.L.C., professes to fear
that under the new Electoral Bill “not 30 but 70
Labour-members will go into the Assembly.”
No wonder the Melbourne dailies backed
up the Purification of Rolls Act. It has already
brought them a fortune in Government advts.
“On Her Majesty’s Service ” has been
excised from official envelopes in S.A. in favour
of “ On Public Service”—quite a different thing.
S.A. Government asked for £2.50,000
locally a»d received tenders for £1,106,425 ! Yet
it is alleged you cannot float a Government loan
in Australia !
The Bulletin sticks to its assertion tliat
the missing mace has been in a ‘ house of ill-
fame.” Wasn’t it stolen from the Victorian Legis-
lative Assembly ?
“Mr. Gladstone,” says Morrison Davidson
in his new book, “is a man of ingenious compro-
mises and impossible precedents, but the time for
both has manifestly fled for ever.”
{Strange to remark, Premier Patterson is
credited with an observation by his antagonist
Longmore, made years ago : “The land must be
taxed, so as to perspire clots of coin.”
If everything which lias transpired con-
cerning N.S.W. Civil Service travelling expenses
were publicly divulged, some haughty potentates
would find themselves in the dock.
Melbourne papers at length report the
acceptance of Munro’s resignation as Victorian
Agent-General. This delay would imply that—
James’ screw has been going on all the,time.
John Davies, M.L.C., supported the pro-
posal that N.S.W. 1 Parliamentary elections should
close at 5 p.m., “in order to obviate proceeding
pi the dark." Delicious !—from John Davies.
S.A, Attorney-General Homburg, it is
stated, is so bent on economy that he has in-
structed his officers not to press heavily on their
pens when writing, as it causes a waste of ink.
Apropos the wholesale Ministerial libel
crusade against Sydney Daily Telegraph :
Parkes never sues anybody for damages now.
One episode of that kind was enough for the old
man.
Premier Griffith avers that as Attorney-
General he will not draw, and never intended to
draw, any fees in the Robb arbitration case for
the days on which he was absent from Queens-
land?
Under the Downer (S.A.) regime, public
officials, even if hundreds of miles in the country,
cannot obtain stationery without the written
approval of the Minister. The idea originated
with Homburg.
Minister of Education Copley seceded
from S.A. (bogus) National Defence League, not
because he disapproves of its methods, but because
his membership prejudiced the Downer Ministry.
“ A straw,” &c.
The penny Brisbane Courier is even
more rabid than the “ tuppenny ” was. It was
Stinted at the Government Printing-office during
odd-tittle. Fancy The Worker asking for a
similar privilege !
The Bulletin hereby announces that
Richard Speight will stand for West Melbourne
at the earliest opportunity. The electorate is
chiefly made up of railway workers, who still
swear by Richard in secret.
It is believed in well-informed quarters
that the enquiries of the Stores Commission now
sitting in Adelaide will result in the resignation
of Railway-Chairman Smith, of whose autocratic
rule Parliament grows weary.
James Service, M.L.0., thinks it is
Scandalous that Vic. Upper House— ■“ the House
constituted of men of most experience ’—should
be so restricted in its powers. The Bulletin
presumes that'james means its mental powers.
The most unblushing Australian swindle
of the present day is the N.S.W. inspector-of-
conditional-purchase system. The Government
which can’t see the glaring dishonesty of it and the
appropriate remedy therefor ought to be poll-axed.
Queen Victoria’s wire of sympathy cost
her absolutely nothing. In fact, as such messages
are invariably marked “Government, and are
franked through at public cost, the northern
sufferers actually pay for the cablegram in
question.
The Age enthuses over a determination in
England to set up the Union Jack in all the
schools, and honour it with some sort of ceremony
each month. The Syme is evidently of opinion
that the idea ought to bo repeated here. A es;
but with the Australian flag.
Dr. Cockburn, who is safe in his own con-
stituency, contemplates touring S-A. in the
interests of the progressive land-tax. Last elec-
tion a majority of the members returned declared
in its favour on the hustings, but several of them
recanted in the House at the first opportunity.
Uniforms are to be abolished on the Vic-
torian railways. The principle adopted is that
the dress is to be no more than is required to point
out the officer. A parcel of boobies in the service
raises a howl against this admirable reform, men
of crawlsome souls. Every democrat should keep a
jealous eye on liveries.
The portly S.A. Treasurer, “ Ben.”
Rounsevell, is in fear and trembling at the pro-
spect of “ being left ”at the coming election. He
now represents Port Adelaide, a while ago an-
nounced himself for Burra, and now finally
changes to Yorke’s Peninsula, At each change
prospects grow fainter.
Millionaire Burdekin’s chief contribution
to politics during a membership of years is his
pitiable attempt of last week to save his own
pockets by arguing against the N S.W. Income Tax.
Even had his arguments been good—they weren’t
—coining from his lips, the source would have dis-
credited them in advance.
Mr. Maloney to move (in Vic. Assembly):
“ That in the opinion of this House, no member of
Parliament should accept a title without consult-
ing his constituents, on the same principle that a
member, on accepting office as a Minister of the
Crown, loses his seat in Parliament unless he be
re-elected by his constituents.”
London Times seems to think that a N.S.
Wales Governor is expected to “boom” the
country. It will be a Lai day for N.S.W. when
it begins to worry about the speeches of a jaded
earl from’Oine. And a Governor’s “booming*
can’t take any stronger form than that of plati-
tudinal dinner-talk, as far as The Bulletin knows.
M. L. A. Many
Liars About.
Premier Patterson
scoffs at th® bare men-
tion of “one-man-one-
vote,” but will gladly
consider any measure “to
broaden the representa-
tion of the people in the
House, and make it less
municipal and less paro-
chial.” Patterson would
probably prefer to
broaden the electoral
system of Victoria on
income-tax principles,
disfranchising the vulgar
creatures who come under
the .£2OO minimum, and
allowing an extra vote for
each £5OO of income in
excess of a moderate fixed
sum. There’s nothing
mean or parochial about
Patteison. None for a
(poor) Party, but all for
the State (of affluence) is
his maxim.
It will be a gross job
for New South Wales
Parliament to give that
Melbourne company the
mountain water-rights
(for Sydney elcclrlcal-
power - production pur-
poses) unless the Co. puts
up £50,000 guarantee
that it will proceed with
the work within, say,
two years, and is in many
other important respects
firmly bound down. The
State has all along been
making fortunes for shark
syndicates who risk no-
thing, by off-handedly
giving them concessions
and irrevocably locking
up for years immensely
valuable public rights.
By the way, should there
now be a N.S.W. general
election, it will go in
favour of the Property
and “ private enterprise”
party who control the
press and have now up
their sleeve some of the
bi gges t grab- schemes that
were ever ventilated in
this much - plundered
country. The N.S.W.
Labour-party, have cer-
tainly stopped more than
ouegigantio daylight rob-
bery.
“If I had to begin
life again,.l would begin
as an agitator.” —Lord
Eldon.
A movement is afoot to start in Sydney a
morning paper in the interests of the political
party farming the backbone of the present
Ministry’s support. Vain idea! Suppose such a
journal launched, what would it represent, on the
demise of the existing Government, save a policy
of mere slavish political party expediency, just as
the Star.does ?
It is said that a certain Ministry once
secured the vote of a supporter, with Labour
waverings, hy confronting him with his i U u
given, on the face of it, for an illegal considera-
tion. Voting “ straight,” the scrap of paper was
torn np, and he thought all was right, but was
confronted the next time he wavered with a photo,
of the destroyed lOC.
This is how Miss Shaw, of the Times, is
writing up the “Labour Question in_S. Australia,
vide S. A. Register
Miss Shaw was met at Aldgate by Sir J. W. Downer,
and entertained at his hills residence. 1,1
Lady Downer drove .Miss Shaw across to Maible Hill to
see ills Excellency the Governor.
S.A. National Ass policy (yet unpublished)
for April includes continued opposition to the land
and income taxes ; and substitution of “ wealth
(alias property) tax therefor ; maintenance of pre-
sent membership of Legislative Council and of the
property qualification ; continued opposition to
the democratic Land'Values Assessment Bill ;
and keeping Labour members out of 1 arliaiuent
at all cost.
Max Hirsch, the statistician of the Vic-
torian Freetraders, asserts thaQ burden of
protective taxation on the Victorian fanner
amounts to 16s. per acre. This means, when you
figure it out carefully, that the Victorian farmers
pay over .£2,000,000 per annum in Customs duties
—in fact, that they supply the whole Customs
revenue of the country, and nobody else pays any-
thing.
The cause of the present anarchistic state
of N.S.W. politics is not payment of members ; it
is payment of Ministers. Look at the greedy,
needy gang who are fighting over the State’s car-
case ! You might put nine-tenths of them —hoofs,
hides, clothes, bank-accounts and all —through a
bone-mill, and then through a chlorination-plant,
and you wouldn’t get so much as a colour out of
the lot.
The Melb. Metropolitan press supported
Patterson for the following reasons : —He is a
shareholder in the Standard ; James Campbell,
bis colleague, is chairman of directors on the
Herald; Syme and his Age will stand to him
because the “ Yellow Pup ” binds both together ;
and the Argus will uphold true-blue Conser-
vatism, of which Patterson is the solid representa-
tive.—Commonweal. .
Frank Cotton, M.L. A. (N.S.AY.) :
He knew an estate of suburban land worth over
£lOO,OOO, and it was let at £lOOO a year, grazing rental.
Under the land tax the owner would pay about £4OO a
year, whereas under the income tax, even at the highest
rate proposed, that on £5OOO a year, the owner would not
pay a .15-note. (“ Hear, hear.’’) In the northern district
of N.S.W. the A.A. Company had a block of land worth
£40,000 which they held for a rise and leased at an annual
rental of less than £lO.
Sydney D.T. says that the N.S.W. people
are rising against the present Ministry, but Toby
Baton says that the Telegraph is taking a rise
out of the people. The Bulletin is of opinion
th it it is the Property-party especially who are
r sing ai d want a general election to wipe put the
Labour party —which they could now do with the
back-wash of the big Labour wave. Only when
Labour - members were elected did astonished
Capital begin to organise. Now Capital is solidly
united ; Labour is riven as by a thunderbolt.
THE DEPRESSION.
JONES: “Is it true that Gobung and Dodge are going up a
tree in Melbourne?”
BROWN (just back from marvellous Melbourne) : “Up a tree be
hanged! There isn’t a vacaift tree left.”
When the impossible Dr. Pearson was
Minister of Education for Victoria there were 200
State-school scholarships to be picked up every
year. As the number of school children has in-
creased the scholarships have been reduced. Now
they are to come down to a modest 50, and con-
sidering that these plums for the rising generation
are almost monopolised by the offspring of
teachers the main body of parents will not feel
much aggrieved.
Premier Dibbs is understood to have said
that no Governor would be appointed to N.S.W.
without the name first being submitted to the
local Government. The Colonial Office denies
that Dibbs has any such assurance, and declines
to submit in advance the name of the appointee
for approval. Dibbs now explains that he took it
for granted, after the Blake case, that the local
Government would be consulted—and he indicates
that he intends to see that it is consulted.
The doctors hold that MTI wraith’s tenure
of life is uncertain. The one place left in Queens-
land politics for foxy Griffith is the leadership of
the party, which MTlwraith holds. Now, if
MTI wraith dies, Griffith may jump the claim and
forfeit his intended Chief Justiceship, which, it
has been decided, there need be no hurry to fill.
Meanwhile, the crafty lawyer awaits his chance.
This seems the key to the Queensland political
situation.
The “Young South Australian Patriotic
Lcacrue’s” programme is just the thing for the
“ masher ” clerk. He can’t join the Employers’
Union, and he won’t demean himself by joining
the low common labour people. The masher clerk
is to be a power in politics at last. He has all the
political virtues of an industrious Chinaman —
passivity, obedience, and so on, and may, being a
fool and a snob, be depended on to vote for his
masters at the next election. The low, vulgar
mechanic talks of fighting for his rights; the
m isher clerk proposes to crawl for a rise in his
screw.
Bolingbroke and Brougham were the first
to attack party government.
Said Gladstone : “If you want to raise a
certain cheer in the House of Commons, make a
general panegyric on economy; if you want to
invite a sure defeat, propose a particular saving.”
Mr. Armytage to move (in Vic. Assembly):
“ That in the opinion of this House, it is desir-
able that when any person inflicts any bodily
injury upon any member of the Police Force in
the discharge of his duty, such person shall be
punishable with not less than five years’ penal
servitude and one hundred lashes.” This is the
Armytage who said he “ would rather live in Hell
than in a republic.”
It is indeed beautiful to, hear M.’sP.
pecuniarily interested, sub rosa, in the passing of
private bills, arise, “in the public interest” to
virtuously protest against such and such a bill
being legalised unless the House inserts such and
such provisions—which they—the patriotic mem-
bers aforesaid —know perfectly well the syndicate
in whose pay they are will only be too ready to
give. The Bulletin has of late been listening to
the loud hypocrisies of a lot of these well-greased
patriots—and to the cash jingling against their
teeth.
A Sydney paper argues that the workers
should be satisfied with a bare loaf, knowing that
others have no bread, A selfish doctrine, con-
trary to every instinct of humanity, and, viewed
economically, utterly illogical. The man with
the loaf, hoggishly satisfied therewith, will shortly
have but half a loaf, or none. Starvation will
compel the breadless to battle with him, through
his employer, for every ounce of crust. It is
plainly his duty, to himself and for the sake of
others, to protect himself and benefit his fellow-
man, by fighting for butter with his loaf and for
bread-and-butter for everybody.
Demos : “ Despite Adams, I wager Home
Rule will pass, after a dissolution. Balfour has
pretty well said so, and the Tories will try to play
Dizzy’s Reform Bill scheme. They conclude it is
not wise really to arrest Home Rule any longer,
or they may dam up a tide which will sweep
them away. Of course Adams writes at a dis-
advantage, compared with our present standpoint,
and with sledge-hammer force he gives expression
to views on Mr. Gladstone’s character which have
impressed themselves on me ever since his auda-
cious chop round, merely to take the wind out of
Salisbury’s sails, when Parnell had begun to
coquet with the Tories.
The Melb. Standard syndicate rejoices
(in a leader) that the local tram men’s difficulty
“ was not aggravated by Trades Hall interfer-
ence.” It gurgles : “In resolutely fighting their
own cause, the tramway employes have set an
example which may be followed with advantage
by all classes of workers.” Of course the reason
for this smug congratulation is that the men
have practically yielded to the directors, They
were never expected to accept the 10 per cent,
reduction, but that figure was proposed on the
principle that actuates Abrahamsh Mosenstein
when he asks 10s. for an article with the expecta-
tion of being beaten down to five.
The S.A. labour policy for the general
elections Maintenance of Protection, but re-
mission of duties on tea, cocoa, etc., and a corres-
ponding increase of present tax on unimproved
land values; Workmen’s Lien Bill; amending
factories legislation; continued support to the
Land Values Assessment Bill, thrown out re-
peatedly by the Tories; department of labour;
adult suffrage ; shortening of term of Legislative
Council; State bank of issue; compensation to
tenant farmers for improvements ; Trades’ Hall
site; Eight Hours Bill. This is regarded in
Adelaide as an excellent programme, which will
win considerable support outside labour ranks.
“As Good as Ever.”
Mr. H. Trevarrow, Broken Hill, writes on
December 29th, 1892: —I have much pleasure in
testifying to the benefit I have received from
Clements Tonic. In the year 1887 I suffered
severely from typhoid fever, which was then so
prevalent in this district, and although at the end
of a few weeks I was considered to be cured I
could never honestly say that I felt the same man
again. I used to wake up in the morning with a
tired, languid feeling, my appetite was impaired,
and my joints stiff and swollen, and finally, being
compelled to accept work in the mines to support
my wife and family, I was seized with an attack
of lead poisoning which utterly prostrated me. I
had all along had the advice of several doctors,
who prescribed the usual remedies, but their treat-
ment was not doing me the slightest good, and in-
ability to pay the fees demanded at length com-
pelled me to dispense with their attendance. At
this stage a friend advised a course of Clements
Tonic, and reluctantly I procured a bottle. The
effect was wonderful. After the second dose all
the tired feeling which had afflicted me for years
vanished, the swelling in the joints was reduced,
and before the second bottle was finished my
appetite was as good as ever i t was. To crown all,
the effects of the poisoning gradually disappeared
from my system, and I am now able to do as good
a day’s work as ever I was in my life. Three
bottles absolutely cured me. You may make
what use you like of this letter, as it is a true
statement of the facts of my case.—l am, yours
gratefully, H. Trevarrow, Sulphide-street, Broken
Hill, New South Wales.


IjOitDOif, Friday—Mr, Gladstone, in 1
reply to a question in the House of
Commons last night, - said that he tyas
filling to make inquiries a» to the neces-1
eity for distinctly ’marking colouial meat
offered for sale in the British markets.
(Z, o • y -
Reciter. r/oCecil
QJoyia. I cjjofi f L
Hta/fkr ~ yc*s/r
C/-o-/y *
Merc's 7%e 6rccyct
a I fat - h)e/I nr '
/A jasf' Corye
00 y ffe S)r
AH Heals
6'
"jfi K
sotf 6l^
j%§»
|D
h ta i I
ItffM /I
L ota B
mrli
He had no hesitation in aajrthg, m view, of
the present position, Uiat if Wo had a set of
taen in office thoroughly bent upon saying
t No ’—and it was time the Ministry of this
Country learned to say No to say “jfd”
to their own connections, to theif. own
friends, and friends of their*, friends and of
their colleagues—and it. we had such a body of
men in office, our magnificent resources.would
soon put us right '
WKes Snub sy d fJ/
„ o'- V^
Ss> v-O we s> J& pT#
Ajt 0 cp^r
/o eP T v A»* °* 'Pjr
■ioW^
v V c >\4i2r
Vw
V
• % v
JW-
fi>~
IIU
If, yrnfim lM S
f M$Jt ill H jt^jnEHisßr
I
*
X & i > B
J
«/ iffe"yjeijsters '
I
T/. /
v
> T
r
CHIEFLY IN SYDNEY.


yr/\
\ 4,61,0
Jk. */
sCf / £ /v; /
Writ. ~ ti _
r, >e/Fehcfyinjr hol-j a. Tniliroixi
'C&t%r.~ T'fyeTtS f- 17i aiic e~ f Tty art fjs ; ” Jfe
. - Kes 7 m n ets, ! *
1 loc/uChow (jealows;.-
'Gblac-k
dally 'banner allee Sa-me,
a.* tliinaman urellf-
d e cx cl i rW", well y
' *Vj a. cl Mfesnesal
BP'rT v/ /i v
a»Sp /y/ si k S/y
. *-r i (f 1 > \ )/•/'• -
Afiss^ssssas**-"-
W Jfel
7B
JE /$ enjoying along
/]olidcA.y nx con.nlry.
Turf/jer
r, Tett*«nc^tn«nt
is To tf? cj-fccteel
e m’Jjloyinjr
|iolicem« i\
oncers.
iE»o>sh®cl Cdiieh.— Cov>s*ofble, ( J
"been. a. <xwc\ vaiVbecL.l
CciwstobV®.”WeVc <£ot’ oivv ,
On «. w\\o seems ~to V<t Ip laying" ll]€ Wa.^,
THE. RDOTTED CHILL.
S#*;/
So far Mr. "Patterson
has foreshadowed nothing new, and
Graham Berry has therefore the 1
mild part to play of assisting to nurse his 6wn
measures through the House.
of EN9U/Rr.
Speakers Mace,-
vl Tel I me,,
[ ] leave k
■\V\c- tou-vT
wrv\l\oxCt a,
slfawx O l-v <*u
3.n|-L — seem*
eK-ce^t - your irvyv o& e rvfc^u« %
-
J> i 50 u steel
•' mother,-
Ive \\<x\
v\C.V ivi *CWo &Vyour,s ( awSk.
-Ur€\ \>tWe. Ws wvy "
Co.n\rtVa<re noT>etUrjlyw cvKeU^W^
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold orushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
STTRURHAN BLOCKS, PERTH, FROM £lO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title,
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1885), .'!»!» IMK-st , Sydney. VS. VP.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Messrs. Ooleniane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure tor ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. IEST* For external use try Golumank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
ZROSZETS
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
THE BEST DRINK FOR ALL.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold l»y all Storekeepers, etc.
Gknbraij Agents:
JULES RENARD «5c CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
Society
The skirt-danseuae, amateur, is typical on
the Collins-street Block. Average age about 16,
marbly pale, with banged yellow hair, all fuzz and
verandah-matty, never oiled. Looks as if her
diet were castor-oil, pigeon’s milk, and snow
meringues.
* * #
The New Australia expedition authorities
hope, it is said, to get 300 single girls from Tas-
mania to join in the venture. It is stated that in
all 1000 men have now put down their names and
paid deposits towards the total sum of £6O
required in each case. In the words of the
eloquent Don Patagonia Lane : “ This much may
be said—New Australia will be.” The crowd
won’t all go at once, but at least two or three
hundred are expected to start by the first vessel.
And what a send-off they will get! The depar-
ture of the Soudan contingent from Sydney wharf
will be but a circumstance to it in dramatic
effect, if Don Lane has any say in the matter.
By the way, as the inhabitants of Iceland are all
clearing out to Canada, The Bulletin recom-
mends the New Australia people to consider
before it is too late how a country with a settled
climate and permanent ice supplies, which is to be
had for “nix,” would suit them.
* # *
The luckiest man in Brisbane just now is a
well-known upholsterer living on the Milton Road.
On Wednesday night his house was accidentally
burnt to the ground, it and the contents being
insured for £2,300. On Saturday nigh* the flood-
waters were raging over the place 30 feet high,
and had the house stood everything would have
been ruined.
• * #
A tale is told of a South Brisbane doctor,
seen escaping from his flooded home with his wife
on his shoulders, his baby in his teeth, an Indian
club in one hand, and a bag of flour in the other.
Also of a derelict time-payment piano that swept
ashore one dark night in the Hamilton reach of
the river, with the keyboard loose and just awash.
The waves swept over the keys every now and
then, and mingled with the roar of the flood as
eerie an accompaniment as ever fell upon human
ears.
# # *
“I send some kisses—a million kisses,
long, juicy ones, such as you and I only knowhow
to give.” Extract from a love-letter, read in a
breach-of-promise case. Again; “You are the
beacon light that steers me safely into port.”
“ Into Court,” suggested a lawyer.
w * #
In the case of
a lady speculator
who was suing a
Melbourne bank
for damages on an
alleged breach of
contract, last
week, the Judge
said it was for the
jury to decide
whether the bank
or the lady had
spoken truth, the
truth of either
side involving the
“ absolute false-
hood ” of the
other. On princi-
ple, rather than
upon evidence ad-
duced, the jury
decided to believe
the lady. Other-
wise they would
have had to believe
in the bank, and
it’s hard to find
twelve men ready
to do that sort of
thing just now.
« • •
Farthingsand
halfpence are very
common on the
watehchaina of
Melbourne men
jus* now, the cre-
ditors of various
magnates having
resolved to use
their dividends as
trinkets.
The late Elder “ exploring ” expeditio ll
has, in its loathsome crawlsomeness, far surpassed
all former feats of vulgarity in connection with
the nomenclature of Australia. The very hills
have been knighted by the expedition. Whatever
the drawbacks of the desert, there is a certain
stern and solemn grandeur about it and its great
solitude which is surely profaned by one of its
features being branded “ Mount Sir Thomas,” and
another “ Mount Sir Samuel.” Jones and Smith
also struggle for immortality on the map just pub-
lished. If the party had only carried a few calico
signs with them, the degradation of the wilderness
would have been complete.
* • «
A thanksgiving service for having escaped
the expected flood was advertised to bo held in
Grafton (N.S.W.) Wesleyan Church on 12th Feb.,
but on that very day the largest flood on record
visited the district, and did enormous damage to
crops. Either the service was fixed for too early a
date or the Heavens took no heed of the Wes-
leyans. The reason why so many floods visit the
Clarence is, no doubt, that the local Sunday
church-collections are proportionately smaller than
in any other part of N.S. Wales.
* # #
The daughter-in-law of a N.S. Wales
M.L.C. has issued against her pa-in-law a £5OOO
writ for slander. The action arises out of some
recent abortive divorce-proceedings. The alleged
co-respondent of the occasion is also suing the
senator—for £lO,OOO.
* # •
A Sydney girl-baby with a bridgeless nose,
was boomed by nurses and newspapers as the gem
of last week’s Melbourne show, but a comely
brown-haired ball of firmer flesh, named Julia
Horan (of Richmond, and possibly related to
Tommy Horan), was the sort of article that a
childless-millionaire would pay the biggest price
for. It is the weight that tells in these matters,
however. “ Come along and see the Sydney
baby,” said one of the nurses to a lady who was
gushing over Julia, “ I’ve seen her, and she’s too
soft,” replied the amateur critic. “Ah, but she’s
heavier in the scale,” said the professional nurse.
From which the writer gathered that these little
strangers are properly judged from a cannibal
point of view. The baby that would make the
largest “ jint ” must be voted champion.
• * •
Neither the third nor second of Mel-
bourne's baby-shows produced a champion equal
to the gigantic waxy maiden who took the cake at
Dam pier’s great original display. This time there
were two very complete sets of triplets, though,
the elder set forming an extraordinary instance of
family likeness to one another, their mother,
grandmother, and sundry young sisters or aunts
in attendance. Pretty little girls were these tWo-
year-old triplets, promising all sorts of fun for the
feller who may first come courting one of them
anon. If they continue to grow as at present,
Adolphus will be able to hug all three with equal
satisfaction, and will generally kiss the wrong one
if he doesn’t take care. The chances are that he
will not take care. A wise Frenchman says that
the strongest passion in the Anglo-Saxon breast is
that of love for a wife’s, or best girl’s sister. When
there are a pair of sisters identical in all respects
with the girl this passion, doubtless, reaches its
highest form of development.
# # *
Another short love-story. A middle-aged
spinster has long been housekeeper on station.
Squatter bankrupts, expenditure curtailed, house-
keeper paid off with cheque as big as a saddle-
cloth. She seeks suitable investment, has notion
of taking a pub., hears that the Magpie’s Nest
Hotel is for sale, and inspects it ) everything
satisfactory, but situation too lonely for single
woman. Stops for few days waiting for Yarbow-
lahmine coach. Meanwhile, distinguished traveller
arrives in buggy, puts up at hotel, swaps ideas
old , o.)- * L* l f.rf-swUs-«"70=.
No, Jo/e. , Ti(t, i
rjL t/oj •
OUR CLIMATE.
with spinster. Strange coincidence—he also is in
search of suitable investment. Would like a pub.,
but, being bachelor, is afraid of being at the mercy
of servants. Result—mutual understanding.
Coach arrives. Another strange coincidence—
parson on board. He expects to meet buggy from
neighbouring station, and waits at hotel. Few
hours later two speculators made one. Final act
—husband goes to to get wife’s cheque cashed.
Meets parson, both chuckle, liquor-up, and start
for the Far West. Agreement to purchase Mag-
pie’s Nest Hotel cancelled. Weeping wife.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, — A Maoriland love-story.
It was leap-year, and two lovers were sitting
together on a f ence. He was a slim youth—a
jockey, bank-oierk—something light. She was
the daughter of aTaieri agriculturist, rosy, buxom,
laughing, 13 stone, if an ounce. The youth lost
his balance and fell off the rail, pulling the plump
maiden after him. She fell on her feet, he on his
nose, on the grass. Ho was about to rise when
she plumped down on him, sidesaddle-wise, and flat-
tened him to the planet. She then caught him by
the ears with the soft, sinewy, white fingers with
which she milked the cows, “Now then, I’ve
got you, Tommy,” she said. “This is leap-year,
you know, and I won’t let you up till you promise
to marry me.” Tommy groaned, and laughed,
and kicked, and struggled for some time, but no
use. He had to say “yes” at last, and then she
took herself off, lifted him up tenderly, and hugged
him.— A.S., Napier.
BILIOUS PATIENTS
When the pain in the liver is accompanied by
constipation, will find relief to the hepatic organ
in Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The lady’s husband had “dropped to the
game,” and returned inopportunely. He found
the door locked, but, contrary to expectations, it
was opened when he hammered at it. Accusa-
tions, recriminations and a general burst -up
followed, but though he searched high and low,
up the chimney, and even turned out the ward-
robe and the chests of drawers, etc., never a co-
respondent could he find. Because, all the time,
the co. was standing on the window-sill outside,
watching the whole proceedings.
# * *
Still harping on the lessons of the Mel-
bourne baby-show catalogue. An economic under-
taker engaged half a page rights* under Class I
Baby boys 18 months to years old. That’s
about the time when teething troubles lay them
low and no household is complete without a coffin
in reserve.
* * m
Melbourne’s “tailed” baby was referred
to as Mary Stockdale, an infant of the female
gender, in last Bulletin. It now appears that
the exhibit in question is Herbert Stockdill, a boy,
and for qur previous miss-statement the wild, un-
tutored innocence of Melbourne newspaper repor-
ters is solely responsible.
# * «
Lady Loch and the Countess of Lytton
were bigger-boned twin babies, one imagines, than
any that have aired their limbs at a baby-show.
The unfortunate
ledger-keeper in the
(recently - suspended)
Federal Bank, who
some years ago ini-
tialled a cheque for
£l2, which was after-
wards altered to
£l2OO and cashed
over the counter, has
been put in a lunatic
asylum. The bank
dismissed hi m for
initialling the cheque
without ascertaining
whether it had been
drawn out correctly,
but he afterwards
obtained a situation
in one of the other
banks. Howfever, the
affair so preyed on
his mind that a little
while back he stayed
out all night in the
yard and refused to
go to bed. saying
that he had robbed
the bank and that the
detectives were after
him. If this should
meet the eye of the
man who got the
plunder, or,of anyone
who contemplates a
similar fraud, let him
remember that it is
not a big institution
which feels the blow,
but that on the head
of the wretched clerk
who passes the docu-
ment falls all the
shame and disgrace;
and (if the amount is
not too large) it is
he who has to bear
the pecuniary loss.
* * i
The Sydney pub-
licans held a success-
ful meeting last week
to raise funds for the
sufferers by water at Brisbane. Good ! When
will they hold a meeting in aid of the sufferers
by alleged whisky in Sydney ?
# #
One rather queer piece of news was elicited
by the missing mace Board. Some months ago
Matthew Davies sent for the sergeant of the Vic-
torian Assembly to suggest that he should write
to a Weekly paper denying the report that Mat-
thew “ had a party in the House on the night of
the mace’s departure.” The sergeant, however,
did not write, because he “didn’t think his letter
would serve any good purpose.” In the light of
the sergeant’s subsequent declaration that he
didn’t know who was, or wasn’t, in the House on
that particular occasion, his indisposition to write
looks very satisfactory.
* # *
In her lecture to “ ladies only ” at Napier
(M.L.) recently Mrs. Dr. Potts advised her
hearers, when in an interesting condition,
to keep looking at, and thinking of, hand-
some people as much as possible if they wished to
have handsome children. Mrs. Potts told how,
in America, it had been noticed that children
often resembled the clergyman whose churches
their mothers attended before they were born, and
this, she explained, was owing to the veneration
and admiration with which the impressionable
ladies regarded their dear pastors.
* * #
E. L. Parker withdraws his action for
divorce, and declares that everything said by him
to the disparagement of his wife Clara Amy is to
be regarded as unspoken. Meanwhile, Clara Amy
presses her little bill for .£lO,OOO damages for false
imprisonment against her dear friend, millionaire
“ Joe ’’.Clarke. Melbourne yearns for the con-
clusion of this little romance.
# # *
The Melbourne man who gave himself up
to the police because ho had forgotten his name is
indeed something quite new. Look at all the pro-
minent Melbourne men who have forgotten them-
selves—how many of them have voluntarily gone
to the police-station ?
* * *
Sir Henry Norman’s “flood” telegram to
Kintore reported “much distress, with moderate
loss of life. ” “ Moderate ”is good.
* * #
At a Grenfell (N.S.W.) inquest. Coroner :
“What is your name?” Witness: “Michael
Molloy.” Coroner : “ When did you last see the
deceased?” Witness: “About (5 o’clock this
morning, coming around the corner of the hotel.”
Coroner : “ Was he dead then?”
Even the Chinaman has gone into the
shent per shent business. The other day two
ladies, residing at Manly (N.S.W.), started to
drive into Sydney. They had just got to the Spit
ferry when they discovered that neither had any
money to pay the ferryman, or to get lunch ot
anything else. They were wondering what on
earth to do, when a familiar figure loomed up
before them. It was their vegetable John plod-
ding sturdily along with his baskets, and smiling
as he went. The ladies applied to him for a small,
temporary loan, and he expressed himself agree-
able. At first he offered half-a-crown on condi-
tion he got 3s. Gd. next day ; and finding that was
not sufficient he produced 55., which he was
willing to lend till next Saturday at 2s. Od.
interest. Also, he volunteered to advance 10s.
provided he received 12s. Gd. the same evening.
Finally a compromise was effected, and the two
ladies borrowed Bs. at 48,000 per cent, per annum,
and went on their way thinking hard.
» # #
Things are so bad in Sydney that at least
one jeweller—and a Hebrew at that—is reduced
to cutting his own hair now. He obviously does
it with a knife and fork. When a Jew can’t
pay sixpence for a crop the end of the world is
near at hand.
# # #
Dear Bulletin*—You have often derided
the power of the daily press. I was riding on a
Brisbane suburban ’bus the other day, when the
NO FOLLOWERS ALLOWED.
MASTER [who has advertised for d cook): “We, do not allow followers,
you know.”
APPLICANT: “Don’t allow followers, is it? Thin whol didn’t yez say
it was a Choinase cook ye were wantin’?”
driver threw out a parcel (containing a dozen copies
of the evening paper) to a local stationer. By
mischance it struck a sturdy boy who was passing,
and dislocated his shoulder. That ought to spike
your gun.— Anon,
* * #
Poof Bishop Goe is much worried over
Ins Cathedral. He is Low Church, but the
Ri tiialis.ts keep egging hi rn on. With inward groans,
the other Sunday night, lie figured in a procession,
with Bart. Clarke’s gift of the golden staff—the
cathedral mace—held before it. It would never
do to get that Lonsdalc-streeted.
“M. Livingstone,” a lady writing in
Sydney D.T., shrieks against the degradation by
men of the present N.S.W. Parliament, and
offers, as a remedy, woman suffrage : “ Women
may make themselves a power that will be listened
to and so respected that a fool or a villain would
not dare to offer himself for election.” And yet,
alas ! perhaps half of even the clever women
have on hand fools or villains who have offered
themselves for election (as husbands) and have
been accepted,
GIVIL PROSECUTION.
The faults of men who once were rich
We must not view unkindly,
Nor press too hard on knights and sich
Who’ve speculated blindly.
Rude legal terms would Much distress
Their dainty constitutions;
What they prefer is gentleness,
And civil prosecutions.
Be civil, Justice, all the time,
And ditto, Messieurs Jury ;
Should counsel dare to speak of crime,
Suppress their hired fury ;
And victims, who did money lend
To busted institutions,
Keep calm, and let the trouble end
At civil prosecutions.
Though figures have a fishy smell,
And facts are rather murky,
Attach no guilt to any “ swell ”
Whose costume is rekerky.
You may complain of sad “mistakes”
And plead for restitutions—
But, for their own and others’ sakes,
Have civil prosecutions.


EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“ SrECTACI.ES s their Use, when Itcquircd,
and how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should he
fead by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
462, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ON a dear night,
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W. H. PALING &, GO.
(LIMITED),
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’s BAND INSTRUMENTS
338 George Street, Sydney.
There was much moral philosophy in the
Melbourne baby-show catalogue. Underneath
the list of twins appeared an extract of John
Stuart Mill-ism; “Little improvement can be
expected from morality until the production of a
large family is regarded in the same light as
drunkenness or other excess.” Then followed an
invitation to parents at large to send eight stamps
for a pamphlet on “ Family Limitation and How
to Ensure It.” Very consoling for the old man.
It is simply monstrous that the Sydney
Hospital scandal should be thus hushed up by the
medical interest. The Government shou'd take
steps, no matter how awkward it may be for those
directly interested, to let the public have an
educational glimpse of the brutal quarrels at the
bedsides of the sick poor.
# * *
At Sydney Hotel Metropole, the midday
diners have been much annoyed by the bull voice
of a street preacher who, just as the clock strikes
one, took up his stand beneath the saloon win-
dows and began to sing and howl. The diners
came to oat beef, and not to listen about hell, so
through the machinations of the unregenerate
hotel management, when the holy man with the
foghorn voice arrived the other day on his errand
obtorture right on the stroke of the dinner-bell,
he found his place occupied by an organ grinder.
The diners are now uncertain which they prefer—
the bane or the antidote.
# * *
An Otago farmer was honeymooning in
Dunedin lately, when his bride, a very pretty
girl, had her nose broken by a falling signboard.
He called in a doctor, who said she was disfigured
for life, whereupon the husband, dolefully : “Like
my luck ! Property always goes to ruin when
I get it.”
& # * #
A curious marriage story was told the
other day in Melbourne divorce - court. Ten
years ago, when the petitioner was only
16, she met a British naval officer, and
being dazzled by his buttons she married him
after four weeks’ acquaintance. On the wedding
night he got very, very drunk. Also, on the
same night he rejoined Ins ship, and the vessel
sailed away in the morning, and his wife has
never seen him or heard of him since. She Waited
ten years for her missing bridegroom, but he
came back no more. And all she knows of married
life is a-faint recollection of her newly-made hus-
band zig-zagging down the street with his legs
tied together in knots, and then disappearing with
a hiccough round the corner. Divorce granted.
« • *
“ The Legs of Sister Ursula ” is alleged to
be the title of a story by Kipling.
* # *
A few Sydney sign-board notices :
“ Licensed to sell spiritous liquors ; ” also,
“spirtuous,” “ spirituors,” and “spituous”—this
word seems to be a hard one for the sign-writer to
climb over. “Milk vanded.” “Great baragins
in jewellery!” “Men’s and Woman’s boots
repaired ! ” “J. Smith, Pruiter ! ” “ Leman
sqash ! ”
* * *
The caretaker is a study of the times in
Melbourne. The great ones of the earth build
desolate places for themselves, then pay a farthing
in the pound. Half the mansions have caretakers,
who practise the most amusing dodges to keep
the houses unlet, while their vulgar families are in
clover.
# # *
During the big floods in the Brisbane
River, hundreds of casks and cases of liquor floated
down towards the bay, and scores of people were
lousy on the banks snaring the precious stuff. One
of them, almost overpowered in his efforts to drag
a cask ashore, accepted the help of a muddy,
dirty-looking customer. The wrecker gleefully
informed his new friend that he had 25 casks and
12 cases of liquid joy safely planted from
the eyes of the “ revenue blokes.” His friend
received this so incredulously, that he proved it
by showing the plant—of which the new comer
thereupon took charge in the name of the Collec-
tor of Customs. He was one of the revenue
blokes.
*‘ * *
The world is again threatened with the
crinoline. Its use should be made a criminal
offence in a thickly-populated world. Crinoline —
criminaline.
Dr. Graham’s proposal that, on the com-
pletion of Sydney Hospital and its proper equip-
ment with modern surgical resources, the directors,
with a view to obtaining for the benefit of the
sick poor the best available professional skill,
should invite Dr. Thomas Fiaschi to fill the next
vacancy on the honorary surgical staff, is a move
in the right direction, though it is not for THE
Bulletin to discriminate between the eminent
Dr. Fiaschi and other surgeons of high repute.
* * *
The late floods, which destroyed the low-
lying portions of South Brisbane, was thought to
be unparalleled, but an old Queensland identity,
Cassini (now dead) used to relate that in lodJ,
during a big flood, he swam from Ipswich to J3ris-
bane with an important despatch, and that what
is now known as South Brisbane was wholly under
water. His hearers considered this a strong effort
of imagination, but the old man may have been
telling the truth.
» # *
Three of last week’s advertisements :
XT'OR PRIVATE SALE.—A Bay Buggy Mare, guar-
ds anteed quiet, staunch and sound, and can be
driven by a lady without winkers,
p IRLS’ HIGH SCHOOL.—The First term will begin
CV on Wednesday. Miss Hamilton will beat the
school on Tuesday, 31st January, from 3 to 5 p.m.
TAT"ANTED, a Good General Servant for Mrs. ,
’ ’ Rangiora ; references required ; wages, 12s. per
week ; no family as a rule.
The Bulletin is of opinion that if the lady with"
out winkers, and the lady who is going to flog the
school from 3 to 5, and the lady who only has a
fafwily occasionally were to enter into partnership
the results ought to be satisfactory to all parties
concerned.
* * *
There seems little doubt now, unfor-
tunately, as to the fate of the May Newton, long
overdue at Maryborough (Q.). The son of Mr.
Clarke, the Sergoant-of-Arras of the Tasmanian
House of Assembly, was on board the missing
vessel in charge of silver ore from Straban (Tas.).
# * *
Potts and Shirk are the comparisons
found for N.S.W. journalistic slangwhang, but
how short Dickens fell of the reality !
» * *
The latest Tasmanian legal scandal, in-
volving the disappearance of many thousands of
pounds, is a shocking history of bogus respect.
A CONSTANT JOB.
SMITH : “Isn’t that Brasplait who just went by in that carriage ? Why, a couple of years ago.
when he kept the engraver’s shop, he hadn’t a penny. How did he do it-silver?"
ROBINSON: “Oh, no. He made it through writing ‘In Liquidation’ on the plates of
the gone-bung banks.”
ability and broken faith. The offender has been
implicitly trusted and has robbed his partners,
orphan legatees, everybody.
# * *
Editor Bulletin, — I travel a good deal on
the N.S.W. Western line. Once at Sydney I was
alone in a carriage. Just before starting a lady
and gentleman entered, followed by a shower of
rice I wanted to bolt but time would not per-
mit Soon they screened themselves behind an
open umbrella and an evening paper pinned to it
and the lining of the compartment. She sat on
his knee. At Penrith I changed carriages.
Three weeks later, as I was about to enter
a car at Katoomba, en route for the city, 1
heard a woman’s voice from behind the sun-blind,
thus: “If you'll be good enough to say which
corner you do want I’ll take the other.” It was
the same couple.
• * *
What’s the matter with Valentine's Day ?
Is marriage a failure?
* * *
Sydney D.T. :
EDUCATED GENTLEMAN wishes to meet Lady
whom he can trust, who will lend £5 towards
publishing new Book of Poems. J.S., Park-st, P.O.
Dear Bulletin,— l, Scotty the Wrinkler,
hereby offer .£1 to every one who will fill in the
missing word in the following The honourable
member then said, “You’re a —— coward.’
Money at Bank of N.S. Wales, Tirana ; word
in the sacred repository of my heart. Enclose any
number of any sort of notes, cheques, or stamps to
S. the W., P. 0., Tirana.
# * *
The days of two obsolete saints fell
together this year. St. Valentine and St. Pan-
cake were equally forgotten on Feb. 14th.
# * *
The Vic. branch of the B. and F. Bible
Society reports that “funds are badly needed.”
Every society associated with the issue of Bibles
lias ever been badly in need of more cash, but the
peculiarity of this particular case of distress lies
in “the fact that last year the total receipts
exceeded the disbursements by .£15,000,’ while
“ the expenses exceeded the income. 'July an
advertising pietist can wrestle successfully with
figures of that sort.
THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD
Is easily liable to become impaired. Wolfe s
Schnapps replenishes the blood, and gives health
to the various organs.
From S.A. Register : .
HEBERLET.— November 25, at Calcutta, CHARLES
HENRY HEBERLET, late Mily. Dept-, Hon. East.lndia
Company, aged 69, Eldest Brother of J. W. Heberlet,
Prof. Mus., Kensington, and Father-in-law to Colonel
Garbett, Commissioner, Hazaribaugh; also, Oct. t,
Maud, Daughter of Rev. Percy E. Heberlet, Son of the
former, died at Seven Oaks, interred at Obeshai Church-
vard, England ; also, Dee. 3, at Calcutta, Matilda Grace,
Wife of Joseph Heberlet, Esq., a Pensioner Hon. East
India Company’s Service; also, at Crieff, Perthshire, Scot-
land, Dr. G. M. Porteous, M.R.0.5., formerly of the
Medical Dept., Calcutta. Husband of D eha pbeilet, sole
Surviving Sister; also, Sept. 7, at Edith-ioad,
Kensington, near London, John \ngnon, ■
and previously, Gabriel Vrignon, Esq., ,
of Judge, Vrignon & Newmarch, Solicitors, Calcutta, bo s
of Elizabeth Vrignon, and Nephews of of
Calcutta, aged 92, Aunt and Mother of J. W. Heberlet,
Kensington, S. Australia.
Also “On a date unknown, at his residence
Garden of Eden, Adam, dearly beloved husband
of Eve, and father of Abel and Cam, ’ &0,, &c.
* * *
A Melbourne paper describes a local society
Miss as “giving an interesting display of shirt
dancing.” # # #
A Port Melbourne tailor, in a letter to the
Age, points out that he and his fellow-tradesmen
are sweated to the extent of making a dozen pairs
of men’s trousers for 7s. 6d., the tailor finding his
own thread, cotton, fuel, and machine, ihe work
takes two and a-half days. Out-throat competition
always cuts the worker’s throat.
At latest, the Bank of France held (as
against its note - circulation of ,£140,000,000)
.£08,000,000 gold and £50,000,000 silver.
Parkes ought to accept the £lO,OOO to
retire, which Dibbs, as a matter of diplomacy,
ought not to offer him. The old man is now more
a source of weakness than strength to I reetrade.
The argument that no member of Parlia-
ment should have any reason to fear dissolution,
directed against payment of members, is a strong
reason in favour of State payment of election
expenses.
Crick, M.P., says that it is a positive mis-
fortune, leaving Labour-members out of the ques-
tion, that there are so many poor men m IN .b. vv.
politics. Loss of office and want of office mean
bankruptcy to many. But the rich are such im-
possible idiots.
The National Ass. argument that pay-
ment of members militates against dissolution is
overthrown by the fact that the last British
Parliament, unpaid, sat for seven years.
Even should the N.S.W. Labour-party be
utterly disintegrated at next general election,
they will have done good work, educationally.
Many men quite outside the movement say
things in the House now that would have been
laughed down three years ago and are cheered.
Look at the advance in the utterances of Parkes,
Reid, Bruce Smith, Carruthers and Copeland.
Dear Bulletin, —You often set it up
“mopehawk.” Very likely in strictly scientific
phraseology “mopehawk” is the correct thing.
An English writer, a pedant with an eye-glass,
once dragged out “mopoke” as an evidence of
Australia’s beastly ignorance. But, against all
this, the bird himself says “mopoke,” and sticks
to it. Besides, “mopoke” it has always been
with us bush-bred Australians, and we hate to
have our language trifled with. The mopoke is
the very antithesis to a hawk of any kind.—
Yours, S.S.
The licensee of a certain Masterton (M.L.)
hotel has now been 32 times before the courts
charged with breaches of the Licensing Act—and
every time his lawyer has got him off, and the
police have been worsted. The last case has just
staggered the temperance party. The landlord
was up, as usual, this time for Sunday trading,
and his faithful lawyer was also on hand. But
the plea was the novelty. It was that though
the Licensing Act expressly makes it penal to sell
on Sundays, the schedule issued as a license is
as follows : “Now I do hereby declare that the
sa id is licensed to sell liquors in any
quantity on such premises between the hours of
six in the morning and ten at night.” A clause
in the Act lays down that the publican is entitled
to sell in accordance with his license, and as
that license does not exclude Sunday, the man of
sin came out on top once more, and once more the
long-suffering police were crushed. An Amending
Act will be necessary.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Should be used when the system, exhausted and
weakened by a malady, needs sustenance and
support. Buy whole bottles.
Avoid the use of calomel for bilious complaints.
Ayer's Cathartic Pills, entirely vegetable, have
been tested forty years, and are acknowledged to
be the best remedy for torpidity of the liver,
costiveness, and indigestion.
‘‘ The Avorld is wide enough for all, but
there are some so greedy that they would like to
put even the sun in their pockets if they only
could.”— Louise Michel.
Tenders were applied for on the butty-
gang principle for five gangs of eight men each to
fill three quarry-holes at Spottiswoode (Vic.) and
300 gangs tendered for the work !
Nearly 20 years ago “Jemmy” Whistler
exhibited a monstrously Turneresque painting,
catalogued as “The Rocket,” and priced at =£2oo.
Ruskin howled at the impudence of an artist who
had “ flung a pot of paint in the face of the public
and called it a picture,” and the result was the
celebrated libel action Whistler v. Ruskin, ending
in a verdict of one farthing damages for the
plaintiff. Last year this same Rocket picture
fetched eight hundred guineas at auction. A new
generation has arisen, which likes to have pots
of paint flung in its face, provided that the
flinger bears a notorious name. Ruskin made
Whistler’s fortune by calling him a brazen
pretender. But then Whistler had sufficient
brains, experience of human nature, and real
artistic ability to enable him to take possession of
his fortune after it was made. The Yankee
“impressionist,” being smart, may not believe in
himself, but he firmly believes in other people
believing in him, and every believer in anything
finds a few followers.
At Oamaru (MiL.) small debts court the
other day the infinitesimal case of Brown v.
Smith came on for hearing, There were only two
lawyers in court; “my learned friend” appeared
for Brown, and my other “ learned friend ’
appeared for Smith. Brown got a verdict without
costs, the amount recovered not being sufficient to
pay the “ learned friend,” saying nothing of other
expenses. Then the counter case of Smith v.
Brown came on, and my “learned friend”
appeared this time for Smith. Brown was not
represented, but on the kindly suggestion of the
opposing lawyer, “my other learned friend rose
and said he would gladly conduct his case. Here
the magistrate remarked that the two lawyers had
practically exchanged clients and that he didn’t
quite like the arrangement. Thereupon the
second lawyer withdrew after some confusion, and
“my learned friend” was left to represent both
parties. Some more confusion ensued, and he
withdrew also, and finally the parties com-
promised. After which the two learned friends
sent in four separate bills and Brown and Smith
are both in a fair way to be sold up for costs. The
original trouble was something about a broken
top-rail in a fence.
Another stage has been reached in the
great suit of Guns v. Armor, and a new revolution
in naval architecture became a necessity on 3rd
Dec. On that day, at Birdsboro, IV, the seg-
mental tube wire-wound gun endured the enormous
pressure of 60,0001b5. to the square inch. The
maximum pressure to which any naval or military
gun is subjected in the U.S. service is 38,0h01bs. to
the square inch, and the guns are not constructed
to withstand more than 43,0001b5. pressure. The
wire-wound gun tested at Birdsboro was incom-
plete, and the shot used was not fitted to it with
the nicety exacted by military science ; neverthe-
less, the enormous pressure did not harm or strain
it in the least. The experiment demonstrates the
wire-wound tube gun to be practically proof
against any obtainable, against almost any con-
ceivable, pressure. What follows? Why, only
this, that existing navies are no better than card-
board floats. A projectile from the wire-wound
gun can be sent through their hulls, though they
be protected with plates of hardest steel many
times thicker than any now' used. Diamond is
the substance possessed of highest power of
mechanical resistance. Probably 30ft. or 40ft. of
diamond armour would render a warship invul-
nerable even by the wire-wound gun—unless the
shot from the’gun were diamond also.—Twen-
tieth Century.
Many people suffer a martyrdom of head-
aches and backaches, due to irregular habits and
defective action of the bowels. Such troubles are
due to a sluggish liver, which does not secrete
sufficient bile to properly evacuate the bowels, and
prevents the expulsion of the waste material col-
lected from all parts of the body. Piles, fistulas,
abscesses, and inflammation all arise from neglect
of these fundamental laws of nature. If mankind
will disobey the rules which ensure perfect health,
and over-work, over-feed and over drink, they must
pay the penalty. As a remedy and general regu-
lator of the system for persons suffering in a
hereditary way for their ancestors’ neglect or
over-indulgence, we recommend Dr. Fletcher’s
Pills as being the best the world produces, and
the safest and most harmless medicine extant.
Sufferers are particularly warned not to use
violent and drastic purgatives ; they are particu-
larly dangerous. Dr. Fletcher’s Pills are mild as
a lamb, safe as milk, and sure as an alarm clock.
They act gently, safely, and are generally re-
commended by all their patrons, and are sold
everywhere bv all medicine dealers, or direct from
F. M. CLEMENTS, Newtown, Sydney, for 13
penny stamps.
Deeming’s last words: “Let me smoke a
GNUN Darling.”
CONVERTED BY THE CATALOGUE.
The mother brought, it home to Par,
And murmured, soft and low—
“ This book, explaining what you are,
Comes from the Baby Show.
Read Blank’s advertisement and blush
(There, wipe the darling’s chins ;
Mum didn’t mean to wake ’em, hussh !)
To think you’re nursing twins !”
The startled father read the ad.,
His heart grew slowly sore,
Quoth he, “ VVhnt’s done is done, bedad !
I needed this before.
How cruel of the sage to sneer
And chide me for my sins !
No pamphlet on this earthly sphere
Can blot away the twins.
“ Ah ! had I sent along some stamps
In time enough, I would
Not now be soothing Lisa’s cramps.
And keeping Tilda good.
’Tis true I've bragged about their size
(They have got sturdy pins),
But when a man is truly wise _
He keeps, it seems, from twins.
“ A pair in hand, and more to com 3
Great Abraham ! ’tis hard ;
And yet, for such a modest sum,
Small blessings can be barred.
This man says naught of Providence,
As in my ears he dins
His moral on the want of sense
Betrayed in owning twins.
“ I thought such things were pre-ordained,-
And grew at Heaven's will,
I never grumbled or complained,
And had not heard of Mill.
But now to haunt ray peace of mind
This catalogue begins ;
In prayer, perhaps, I’ll comfort find
‘ O, Board ! forgive my twins ! ’ ”


IDEAL.
The NEW MODEL “ HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MOKE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS; Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 42 styles of Type;
LIGHT. COMPACT. PORTABLE. DURABLE.
The greatest success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars op the Mimepgraph or Cyclostile, on account of no Backing, no Folding, no Cracks, and no Varnish, as by other
Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
D. 33. THOMAS, Australasian Agent, Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY; and 101 Swanstoh Street, MELBOURNE.
Here at Last!
Some seven years ago a strange thing happened to the lady
whose photo, appeals herewith, whereby she became
■A. "ST S 3 *3713 H 7KT
Which no one can explain or account tor so far, not even her
husband. How it happened was t his : She lay dying of a compli-
cation of diseases ; often she would faint off, and lie unconscious
as long as 30 hours at a stretch—frigid as a corpse and apparently
dead. The leading medical men of Melbourne were in attendance,
often at a cost of Five Guineas a day, yet she sank lower and
lower. Everything that medical science could suggest was tried;
even morphia failed to give enough ease for two hours’ sleep
daily. At last, in desperation, sohie said, “ Try Mesmerism.”
Mr. Harle, as a Mesmerist,
Had been very successful on the public platform, and had also
saved life by private magnetic treatment; but Mrs. Harle, being
a lady of very pronounced opinions and strong mind of her own,
never could see anything in it but a hobby of his, and so, when
urged to try it, she ridiculed the very idea ; but they said, “ Try
it for sleep only— you will go mad for want of rest.” For a long-
time she could not bring her mind to submit; at last, after much '■
prayer to God for guidance and help, she was willing to try.
After about half an hour’s mesmeric influence and passes, she
went off into a peaceful hypnotic state, which lasted, as was
intended, from eight at night till ten next morning; and she
awoke rested and refreshed. The experiment was repeated, when
Iio! Everyone was Startled
g«s.
Pi
Qasa*
Mrs. J. N. HARLE.
To find that, whilst to all intents and purposes she was asleep, yet in another sense, the mind was far more awake,
and she commenced talking about what the servant was doing on the ground floor, what an acquaintance was doing a
mile away, what was happening in the home of a dear friend some few blocks away, and so forth. Then she was
requested to look into her own body ; this she did, and was surprised herself, and surprised everyone else, by tracing
the cause of her trouble, which proved to be mainly an internal cancer. She then told them how to cure her.
Crowds of Friends Came to See Her,
For she had a large and influential circle of acquaintances. She astounded all by her marvellous powers of vision-
to see into their bodies as if they were made of transparent glass, to see the members of their families, to know all
about their commercial affairs, seemed quite easy to her; England, America, New Zealand, etc., seemed just like next
door.
The Sensation was Immense!
Drawing-room, Sitting-room, Dining-room and Bedroom were crowded with inquisitive people, and the invalid became
a phenomenon. The doctors were nonplussed with their patient—she gave directions how to soften the cancer to the
lancing state: this was done ; then, as they dare not give chloroform on account of her heart, Mr. Harle put her under
mesmerism, whilst Drs. Teague, of Collins Street, lanced it. She awoke without having felt anything that had hap-
pened. Everyone said : “ Start and use your powers for doing good, you can
Save Lives by Thousands.”
But her health was too low. First, she cured herself—in three months’time she was again taking her accustomed
drives on the Esplanade, in her phaeton, to the astonishment of the whole district. To properly tone the system a
change of climate was needed, and she came to N.S. Wales. For a short time she resided in Maitland ; her retreat
was known by those who were aware of her powers, and she got no peace till she agreed to start practice. Five years
ago Mrs. Harle opened in Newcastle ; three years out of the five have been spent travelling in the Northern district,
and away in the bush discovering gold mines, and she seems to be able to find gold as easy as trace disease.
Seven Thousand People Have Consulted Her
In her mesmeric state ; some about business, but most about their health. Not one can say: “I am worse for your
treatment,” whilst all who have followed the advice and treatment, rejoice in restored health. Mrs. Harle describes
each diseased organ, finds the cause of every trouble, and prescribes remedies and treatment. Her wonderful mental
' ision or clear sight enables her to see just what medicine, and how long it will take to cure it, often giving the
medicine three months ahead, and never changing a bottle.
Warning!
If you wish to mortally offend Mrs. Harle, just class her along with the card-reading, palm-scanning, fortune-telling
crowd, and the task is done. No such rubbish ! Mrs. Harle is mesmerised by her husband, and when in the hypnotic
state, she sees with her mind. She cannot open her eyes, yet she hears, talks, asks and answers questions, etc. When
the mesmerism is undone, she awakes, and knows no more of what has happened, than if she had been chloroformed
or dead.
It Causes a Terrible Mental Strain,
Therefore, Mr. Harle reserves the right to say when she has done enough, and may refuse any or all at such times.
The Fee is half-a-guinea for bodily examination, and a guinea for business advice. The half-guinea includes a
complete tracing of your case, and a full statement of how to cure you. Business men have voluntarily paid as high as
£5, and even £l5, for the arrangement of a business tangle. She guarantees in all cases a full value in the treatment,
and more satisfaction all round than can possibly be obtained by any other means whatever. Special medicine is
prepared for each case treated. _ Mrs. Harle is prepared to work with the family physician or any qualified medical
man, if her suggestions are carried out. She is prepared to treat any case that can be cured, but insists upon only
using her Eclectic Botanic Remedies—she has no faith in mineral medicines. It is desirable to make appointments or
come early in the day, whilst her brain power is fresh. Outdoor visits must also be arranged.
Simple cases send £1; Complicated Cases send £5 —with age, sex, occupation , all symptoms, particularly state of
bowels, how long suffering, and a Photo, if you have one (we will return it) and you will receive post or rail free a
course of Mrs. Harle’s latest marvellous remedies and her personal care of your case—with full advice on diet and
exercise, &c.
P.S.—Mrs. Harless chief reason for visiting Sydney for some six months is to introduce her Remedies to the
Public, and open a Dispensary where people may call and see her or write for the Remedies or call for them.
SYDNEY ADDRESS-200 PITT-STREET. SYDNEY (between Market and Park-Streets).
% One minute from O. P. Office. HOURS :—lO to 12 a.tn. ;2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
Newcastle Address; HARLE'S BOTANIC HALL, Tram Terminus (City), Newcastle.
Wholesale and Retail Botanic Remedies, and all Druggists' Sundries.
Special Advertisements.
COLLEGE, MEDICAL SCHOOL-
Glasgow, 16th Nov., 1892.
To Messrs. Bosisto and Co.,—-
It is with pleasure that I write to state
pay opinion of your Eucalyptus Oil. It is de-
cidedly better than any other similar oil which
can be obtained in this country.
It is a, lighter, clearer and more ethereal oil
than any I have hitherto used, besides being free
from the heavy, nauseous odour characteristic of
others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is
sprayed into the throat.
It is very, palatable when taken internally,
which places it above other preparations and: con-
siderably enhances its value.
, . . (Signed),
GEORGE BELI/ TODD, M. 8., Pro-
fessor of Zoology, Anderson’s Coll. :
Assistant Physician, Samaritan Hos-
pital for Diseases of Women, Glasgow,
#
The above is a most valuable testimonial. It
was entirely unsought, and was freely sent to
Bosisto and Co., of Richmond.
BOSISTO’S “ PARROT BRAND ”
EUCALYPTUS OIL is sold in all the colonies
at Is. per bottle.
Beware of inferior articles now offering. Many
of these so called “ eucalyptus oils ” are produced
from messmate and bastard gums, nauseous in
odour, and almost worthless from a medical point
of view.
Ask for Bosisto’s “ P'arrot Brand ” Eucalyptus
Oil. Look for the words, “J. Bosisto, Rich-
mond,” blown on bottle. None other is genuine.
Is. per bottle.
KRUSE’S
IN S E C TICIDE
CLEARS
THE HOUSE
THE CONSERVATORY
AND THE GARDEN
OF ALL INSECT PESTS.
For Destroying Apliis, Kruse’s Insecticide should
be lightly sprinkled over the Blighted Plants in
still weather and when the leaves are dry. It
also destroys Wood Lice, Ants, and other Insects.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE is far more effectual
than Tobacco Smoke in Conservatories and
Ferneries, while it is perfectly harmless to plants.
Preserves Purs from the Moth.
Harmless to animal life, and can therefore be
applied with best results to Dogs, Cats, Poultry,
&0., &o.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Kruse's is the Original and Only Genuine.
Sold in Tins at 1/-, 1/6, 2/6 & 5/- each.
USE
Kll
P O W DER
f
T
»
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S 1 ”
He : “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He : “Ah! Dera that make me love.”
A CARD.
To Merchants, Mine Owners, Captains, Pearlers and
Dealers in Pearls and Precious Stones.
I SID OR BRAUN,
17 Hatton Garden, London, EC.
Broker in Pearls and Precious Stones (Established, 1872)
wishes to receive direct consignments of all kinds of
Pearls and Precious Stones, rough or cut. Commission
2% on parcels over £lOO. Advances made on London
valuation. Speciality, Pearls and Opal-Ore.
Amusements.
TIVOtI THEATRE
(Late the GARRIdK) Castlereagh Street.
Solk Lessee and Manager _ Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-NIGHTI TO-NIGHTI TO-NIGHTI
| Mr. II A K ICY RICKAKDB (
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company .
45 REALLY GREAT ARTISTS 45
New Sliding Eoof, New Fernery, New Scenery, New
Wardrobe, Everything New. Million Prfoes, Dress Circle
and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is.; Family Circle, 6d.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
H
EVERY EVENING (at 7.45) EVERY EVENING
Arthur Jones and W. Barrett’s Famous Play,
“HOODMAN B LIN D,"
(By arrangement with J. 0. Williamson, Esq.)
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
_of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE : Hon. B. R. Moeetqn, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James II n> wood,- Esq,,
Aoheson OverenD, Esq., C.E.
; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000:
rental value, ,£1,500.
Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost*
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of ,£lO,OOO
1 of £5,000
4 of £2,500
5 of £l,OOO
5 of <£soo
10 of <£2so
50 of .£lOO
100 of <£so
100 of £25
125 of £2O
1.000 of ,£lO
1.000 of £5
lotal, ,£105,000, no deduction of anv kind.
■AP-P-pY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 niay win worth*
sdf
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255,,'£2 10s., £3 iss., best
inake, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 21s. 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 855., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. • four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255,,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autohafp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £s'ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS : —Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrisrhted) VAMPING CARD— immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE.
■fIHE LYCEUM THEATRE
* (Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Overture at 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
A. C. Torr and Horace Mills’ Burlesque,
“ Miss Esmeralda.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodm an
CRITERION T H E A T R E.
V Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucioault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
A. W. Pinero s Latest and Greatest London Success,
“THE TIMES.”
Interpreted by the Brough-Boucioault Comedy Company,
and Miss MAGGIE MOORE (specially engaged)^
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
■rp H E A T R E ROYAL.
L e ssee „ Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, Amory Sullivan.
Last TWO Nights! Last TWO Nights!
of the
Great Sensational and Emotional Drama,
“THE WORLD AGAINST HER,"
The Ladies’ Drama!
Which, in spite of its emphatic success, must be with-
drawn on Saturday Evening, owing to the production
of
“LI G H T AREA D.”
On SATURDAY EA RNING NEXT, February 25, Grand
I reduction of an entirely new and original Drama, by
Walter Howe and H. C. Honan, entitled,
“Light Ahead,”
With a Most Powerful Cast, Original Music, and
Magnificent New Scenery. Box Office now Open.
Now Ready, 3rd Edition, Post Free Is. «d.
The life, adventures and con
FESSTONS OP A SYDNEY BARMAID.
Only of Mdme. Panza, Box 913 G.P.0., Sydney.
NOTICE.—Owing to unforeseen delay in print-
ing this edition, Copies were not ready before the
18th insb. Subscribers will kindly accept this
explanation.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
“Bread is the right divine of man.” —
Saint-Just.
. The worker who professes td vote for
Freetrade or Protection but who, in reality, votes
for some form of sectarianism underlying either
term, is a mental slave, one who does not own
even his opinions; the tool of the priest or the
lodge “boss.”
'the ladies’ gallery in N.S.W. Assembly
does as much to stop business as any other cause.
Several members continually talk at the women,
9-nd nothing will shut them up while there is a
petticoat in the House.
The Tucker Village Settlement is a praise-
worthy kind of thing, but there is somewhat
appallingly incongruous in photos, of it being
exhibited amid the silks and satins of the most
fashionable drapers on the Collins-street Block.
The huts depicted, the squalid mia-mias, are so
truly awful a contrast to the articles of useless and
expensive luxury with which they are surrounded,
that cold and dismal charity is the suggestion.
The Cdxon cash in England brings to
iflemory a recent case in the holy of all holy cities
—Adelaide—in which it transpired that a lady
there not only persuaded her liege lord that she
vVas in an interesting state; but, later on, that she
hUd becdnie the mother of twins—one of which Had
been gathered home, while the other was produced
as evidence, of maternity. Some amusement was
caused when, through a, baby-farming case, it was
shown that the child had been obtained through
tfie agency of another lady. The husband would
uiake a good exhibit for Chicago, as representing
the brediility of man.
Boltori, Lancashire, Eng., has recently
been “ shocked ” by some police-court disclosures
of life in a one-room house. There was naturally
space for only one bed in the one-room house, and
this was shared amongst a middle-aged man, his
daughter, her two children, and a lodger. As an
instance of economy in family relationship, it was
mentioned that the grandfather, of his daughter’s
children was also their father. The younger child
is am idiot, but the elder, a girl, was considered to
be in danger of becoming, nob many years hence,
the mother of a child whose father, grandfather,
and great grandfather would be identical, thebe-
fore the local “ authorities ” committed her to an
industrial school. This leaves more space for the
lodger.
Experience and popularity
Are two strong credentials. Wolfe’s Schnapps
has been the popular beverage for over 50 years.
Buy whole bottles.
The publisher of The Worker (Brisbane)
has been fined .£5O and costs, or a month’s gaol,
for issuing a so-called indecent cartoon. The
Bulletin has no hesitation in saying that on
appeal to any intelligent and unbiassed tribunal
this magistrate’s verdict should be upset. How-
ever, strange things have of late happened in
Queensland to the persons and tribunals who have
endeavoured to do justice.
According to Mulhall, Great Britain manu-
factures to the value of <£820,000,000 annually;
the United States, £1,443,000,000 ; Germany,
£583,000,000; France, £485,000,000.
S.A. is making a success of the construc-
tion of the Blythe to Gladstone railway by day
labour. Several other It bal lines have been thus
built, to the benefit of the workers and the great
saving of contractors’ profits.
At Glebe Point you can buy G N U N Darling
G. R. Sims suggests that a modern Father
Christmas most suitable for the family circle
would be a pale young curate, with a blue ribbon
in his button-hole and a vegetable menu in his
right hand.
At Paddington you can buy G tJ N Darlings.
Solomon Blay, the Tasmanian ex-hang-
man, a grey-headed old cohvict-time relic who
has, perhaps, choked and broken the necks of more
men than any other hangman, Can’t sleep at night
without a light in his room—being haunted, pro-
bably, by the ghosts of some of his clients. The
other night his candle ignited the chaif on which
it was placed, and the flames spread to the bed-
clothes. When half-suffocated (poetical justice !)
with smoke he awoke and carried the burning
articles into the street. Sheol comes half-way to
meet the grey-headed old man-butcher;
In Park-street you can buy GNU N Darlings
Gladstone, as per table, says lie is' in
favour of, paying needy elected members of Parlia-
ment. A good deal of Gladstone’s democracy is
beastly English bourgeois snuffle of this sort. It
is with payment of members as with education :
the State should provide for all; rich and poor
alike. Then if the rich members of the rich
fathers of families choose to refuse to accept
(which they never do) what the State treasury
offers, let them exhibit their magnanimity by
refusing to take pay in the former case and paying
in the latter. But let all have what is an equal
right—let not either the poor child or the poor
member be pauperised before the public. “Mrs.
Jones’children are on the pauper-list at school. ”
“The pauper member for such and such a
borough.” Bah!
In Pitt-street you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Politics make strange allies, and one of
the queerest political partnerships is that of
Murray Smith (Melb.), the unblastable monument
of Conservatism, and Max Hirsch, a voluble
apostle of modern Socialism. Murray Smith is a
Freetrader on Flinders-lane principles, Hirsch is
a single-taxer of the deepest dye. The ultimate
aims of these men are as divergent as the poles,
but each evidently thinks he is working the other
for all he is worth. Meanwhile, Smith and the
Foreign-trade and Pauper-labour brigade have the
best of the coalition, and will turn round and
fight all the skin and hair off Hirsch if he helps
them to their ends. Both men are used as cats-
paws, but there seem to be no chestnuts in the
lire for either.
In George-street you can buy GNUN Darlings.


TATTERS ALL’S
Newmarket Handicap — Flemliigtoii, March 4. is'Kt,
100,000 at 2® 100,000
Australian Cup — Flemiiigton, Mnrcli 7, 18»3.
25,000 at 10 25,000
ONLV ADDRESS:
“ TATTKttSA LL,”
C/o Geo. Adams (Owner), Tatter-
I sail's Hotel&oldClub Premises,
Pitt-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
GNUN Darlings bear a thin red band.
The advertiser, a good writer and ex-
perienced proof-reader, desires engagements in
journalistic or clerical capacity. Maoriland pre
ferred. “ Puoof, ” care of The But.t.etin News.
Co., Ltd., Sydney.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
The Missing Word of The Bulletin Competition,
No. 1, was “Cupidity.” The returns are some-
what numerous and could not, up to Tuesday
afternoon, when The Bulletin went to press, be
properly checked. Before the issue of The
Bulletin next week (in which a full list of prize-
winners and other details will be given) cheques
will have been posted to the successful com
petitors.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within four weeks front Saturday, 25th Feb.,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition, particulars
of which will duly appear.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 2.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or IS penny
stamps, to Manager , Bulletin Office. Svdnev.
The assumption of Premier Gf. Republican
Dibbs that the name of the new Governor of
N.S. Wales would be submitted to him in
advance for approval has proved erroneous.
The haughty stand taken by the Colonial
Office in this matter, even after the sharp
lesson given it by M’llwraith in the Blake
affair, is a logical consequence of the ex-
Republiean’s in accepting a
title while intoxicated with the glamour of
the Court.
Name...
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies tvill he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
m
m
B3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
liicoMimis
AMD
INFLUENZA.
It can new be had of all
Chemists, in la. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor;
J. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale pf Elliott Brothers. Limited
Wr
V
%
%
I
V,
e-
-1
'4
mV;
v «
u GRATEFUL RESULTS*'
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennyslvania, U. S. A.
A Life of Suffering and Misery, without
Sleep, without Appetite, with Bowels al-
ways Out of Order.
Restored to Health by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Spring. I was grievously afflicted
with Biliousness and Liver Complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every morn-
ing, my tongue thickly coated, my breath was
offensive ; food distressed me, I suffered much.
from headache, my skin was sallow-, and my
bowels were always out of order. Sleep did
not refresh me, nor did the many remedies,
recommended do me any good. At last I com-
menced using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and my im-
provement began almost from the_ first <* ose. It
relieved the distress about my liver, regulated
my bowels, caused food tosetwellonmyst'nraeh,
cured mv headache, improved my complexion,
and restored my appetite. These unlocked for,
but grateful, results were accomplished by only
two and a half bottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.”—
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, Altoona, Pa., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
MISSING WORD
Competition.
/CONDUCTED on the same lines as those so successfully
L- 1 carried on in England and America, w-ith the excep-
tion that a Commission of One Penny will be deducted
from each answer sent in, and which amount will be
handed to the Treasurer of the Queensland Flood Relief
Fund, less expenses.
Send 1/-, or 13d. in stamps, register your letter w-ith the
missing word contained in it, your name and address,
and POST IT before 9th MARCH, 1893, to
The “KI-YA” and “TI-TA” INSTITUTE,
Box Park Street Post Office, SYDNEY.
The missing word has been placed in a sealed envelope,
and entrusted to the care of G. E. R. Jones, Esq., the
well-know-n solicitor, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and the
day after the competition closes, the packet will be opened
in his presence and a few members of Parliament, by Mr.
J. Macnamarra, the discoverer of “Ti-Ta.” The sentence:
It is reported that the Earl of Jersey
would have remained in Sydney if the
Premier had not started
All you have to do is to find the missing word, pur-
posely left out at the finish of above sentence.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY
40 Miles from Sydney.
The First Section Comprising 1000 Acres,
subdivided into from
5 TO 20 ACRES HORTICULTURAL BLOCKS,
is now ready for Sale.
Five Years’ Terms. Torrens Title.
Every Acre has a water right attached under the
provisions of the Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
£7 Per Acre Deposit.
Apply to the Manager, Mulgoa; or the Sydney Agents,
133 PITT STREET.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY.
THE TOWNSHIP.
Every Lot can now be Supplied with Water.
£25 PER LOT £25
with water rights attached under the provisions of the
Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
Two Years' 1 Terms, Torrens Title
A Visit to the Irrigation Colony may be made in
ONE DAY.
Sydney Agents: HARDIE and GORMAN,
~ Vl 133 PITT STREET.
66 rpALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.’
1 /, _ Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
£49,460 worth for £l.
{■W Amusement
Column.
—THE
(Best (Thing ever Offered to the public!
“ UNION ”
FINANCIAL CONSULTATION
—ON—
The Australian Cup - 80,000 at Is each
7th MARCH, 1893.
The Champion Stakes 80,000 at 1 each
9th MARCH, 1893.
The Sydney Cold Cup 80,000 at 1 each
3rd APRIL, 1893.
Each 4000, as follows :
Less 10 per cent.
Please state amount forwarded, and send two addressed
envelopes, with stamps enclosed (not adhered) —one to
send your ticket in, and the other for result. Stamps
will be accepted in payment for tickets, hut one penny
stamp must be sent in addition for exchange bn every
shillingworth.
jt=p" PLEASE NOTE ! —The drawing will be under the
personal supervision of a committee of representative
commercial men of New South Wales, as a guarantee of
good faith.
We guarantee to pay 10 per cent, of nett profits to
the Trades and Labour Councils. Read prospectus.
ADDRESS— TIKTIOKT,”
C/o D. E. COLTS, 8 Mercantile Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over 20 Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN :
Newmarket Handicap— Flem., March 4
SYDNEY GOLD Cl I*.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
OT
(30001
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
||y Programmes Sent on Application.
ts Southern Cross ”
GENUINE
PRIZE CONSULTATIONS.
RELIABLE DRAWING AND PROMPT PAYMENT.
tr NOW OPEN 'EH
on the
Mewmarket Handicap
(4th March), and on the
SYDNEY GOLD CDF*
(3rd April).
10,000 SS” its 1* 10,000
as follows:
s
-ju.xi jod oi
110 PRIZES 110
In the event of not filling, prizes will be pro rata.
An independent committee of gentlemen who
conducted the drawing on the Standish certify,
among other things, as follows :
In this drawing, as conducted, collusion or fraud
of any kind was impossible, and every ticket had
an absolutely equal chance for a prize.
SPECIAL PLEDGE.'
We undertake that each Consultation will be
Conducted by a committee of disinterested gentle-
men under “ The Sportsman ” Check List System,
which renders fraud impossible. For further par-
ticulars of this, send for prospectus, or see Sports-
man of January 4, 1893.
State clearly the amount enclosed, and send two
unattached stamps with addressed envelopes—one
for reply and the other for result. Make sure and
register your letters, and retain your receipts
until you receive a reply.
NOTE 'I
the j-
Address J
“SOUTHERN CROSS,' 1
Care of J. S.
P. 0., Allmry, W.B.W.
WINTER,
J
ijonster
'CASH PR I ZEICONSULTATIQNS^
Care “WANDERS,” ALBURY, n.s.w.
NOW OPEN ON
NEWMARKET HANDICAP
FLEMINGTON, MAECH 4.
10,000 Subscribers at 5 each.
First ... 1000
Second ... 225
Third ... 100
S (d) ... 200
N.S. (d)... 200
Sal .25 125
to at 1C 15C
15 „ 10 150
SO ,, 5 150
50 Consolations at 2 100 Consolations at 1
210 Extra Cash Prizes.—Every 1 invested will have
a chance of 20 separate prizes.
Also on similar lint s to the above
Australian Cup. Eun March 7 10,000 at 5
Champion Stakes, Eun Mar 9 10,000 at 5
Sydney Gold Cup, Eun Apl 3 10,000 at 5
State amounts enclosed, and send two stamps-
with addressed envelopes, one for reply and the'
other for result. Be sure to register your letters.
The CONSOLATION PEIZES are a Specially
favourable new feature, and are solely originated
by me.
The CONSOLATION PEIZES largely increase’
the chances and minimise risk. BEAD my
MANIFESTO sent with circulars free.
I earnestly advise you to beware of all IM-
POSTOES, who are
Copying '*Robin Hood’s” Original Sy t na.
Note address carefully—
“ EOBIN HOOD,”
C.o. Manders* Telegram Agency.
DEAN-STEEET. ALBUEY. N.S.W.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
S. D. Darbishire, the best Oxford ‘ stroke of
Oxford’s best rowing days, died recently at an age which
would be reckoned as young outside high athletic circles
—viz. 46. Four years in succession he showed the way
to the’dark-blue crew, with little Tottenham, the coxswain,
bowing monotonously to him over the rudder lines, but
he is perhaps, most widely remembered for “stroking”
the famous University tour—Darbishire, VVillan, Tinn6,
and Yarborough-who beat the Harvard boys, from
Yankeeland. There was stuff enough in the Harvarders
to have brought them home against any 01 dinary Univer-
sity lot, but they had the misfortune to meet four giants
who rowed the heart out of them at the finish. In those
jays it was treason to imagine that Hingland could ever
run out of champions at any game under the sun.
Pony-racing is a great sport. At many meet-
ings, especially in the country, the official stewards have
to know when a pony is likely to win, so that they can
back him to win a hit for themselves. If the owner of a
good thing keeps it dark, they disqualify him first time
he loses a race, for stiff running. The other day a man
who had a very good pony found that the committee had
backed it, and that he could not get a shilling on for him-
self. He dared not pull the nag, but after the boy had
weighed out he took 2lbs. of lead from the saddle-cloth.
The pony won all right, and the owner laughed to think
how sold the committee-men would be when they had to
declare the pony short of weight. Thecommittee-men, how-
ever, were equal to the occasion. As soon as ever the bov
put his foot on the scales they declared him weight, and
shoved him off the scale without even giving time to see
if he was within a stone of it.
REV. BENJAMIN SMITH.
(The missing Sydney clergyman).
People think that the trip of an Australian
Eleven to England is a perfect picnic for the team, who
fare sumptuously every day, are made much of, and live
in style. As a fact, each team tries to cut the expenses
down as low as possible. One Cornstalk, who called upon
an Australian Eleven in England, was surprised to find
them, not only living at a second-rate hotel, but crowded
three and four in a room, and even sleeping two in a bed
—this was a team which made a very great deal of money.
As to the playing~for the first few weeks it is pleasurable,
but after that the men get stale. Knocks and bruises
have no chance to heal. Constant work makes the team
muscle-sore and so fagged that, towards the end of the
tour, every day there is play they pray for night. The
wicket-keeper, especially, gets smashed up, and Black-
ham often says he does not know whether he has a pair of
hands on him or not.
• # *
J. Reedman, against George Giffen’s bowling,
made 83 in Adelaide the other day. Ho is the most con-
sistent batsman in S. A., after Giflen.
■ # * *
Redleap has been handicapped at 13st. 11b. and
14st. 91b., respectively, for V.R.C. Hurdle Kace and
Steeplechase.
Champion sculler Stanbury has gone to America,
chiefly in the hope of picking up some money by exhi-
bitions.
# * *
The galloway mare, Laura, recently scored her
72nd win at Cooparoo, Queensland.
# # *
.Last week’s meeting between the heavy-weights
O’Donnell and Ryan was, to say the least of it, disappoint-
ing. Had Ryan gone out as a stranger to Botany with
the object of giving O’Donnell a trial, the latter would
have got all over him, and put him to sleep in about the
third round. O’Donnell, however, suffered from stage-
fright, and Ryan nearly finished the affair towards the
end of the second round, when he fairly dazed O’Donnell
with a right on the ear. Ryan was in no sort of condition,
and when the police stopped the fight in the tenth round,
it was more from want of wind than punishment received
from O’Donnell that he looked such a pitiable object.
There is no doubt as to O’Donnell’s cleverness as a boxer,
but to become a fighter he must throw into his stylo a
little more “ devii.” Mick Dooley has now offered to
meet either Ryan or O’Donnell.
*’ * *
Joe Thompson naively says he gave up owning
horses because “ he did not think the functions of a book-
maker and the position of a gentleman could he com-
bined.”
* * #
The famous cross-countryman, Tommy Corri-
gan, takes it easy as a trainer. Since he broke his
collarbone he has been a comparatively nervous rider,
and rightly, having now a wife and rising little family.
He is a much smaller man than would he imagined from
the portraits circulated, with his ferocious Victor
Emmanuel moustache. A well-weighted saddlecloth has
fetched him up to the high steeplechase standards.
# * #
Mick Dooley talks of going to America.
Michael, in condition, should do well, provided he does not
fly too high.
» * #
The racehorse Malta died last Wednesday at
Blayney. Malta was disqualified some 12 months ago,
and the news of the removal of the disqualification last
week appears to have been too much for him. It is sur-
mised that he expired from excess of joy.
* * #
The match to be run this (Thursday) afternoon,
at the Sydney Driving Park, between the Melbourne
pacing mare, Mystery, and the Sydney trotting mare,
Rita, on paper looks a very easy thing for Mystery. Rita
is a speedy little mare, but matched against Mystery she
is outclassed.
# # #
Griffo and Marshall meet next Tuesday night
at the Darlinghurst Hall. With regard to Griffo, a few
weeks training cannot have cleared out the effects of
months and years of lemonade, and as Marshall will step
into the ring trained to the hour, it locks much as if
Master Griffo will taste the bitters of defeat for the first
time in his career, should the police allow the fight to be
finished. However, Griffo cannot complain. Lemonade
has knocked out many a better man.
The Maoriland Government has received
<£35,000 stamp-duty on the local estates of the late
lion. Reginald Tollemache.
Dear Bulletin, —Messrs. Ednie Brown
and P. J. Holdsworth received, at 3.30 p.m. on
Monday, their notice of dismissal (the latter,
however, to remain temporarily in charge) notice
to take effect at 4 r.M. same day. This, of course,
is mere brutality. Even a Civil-servant is entitled
to courtesy from a K.C.M.G. —P.W.
Reginald Black, sharebroker, one of the
figure-heads of the N.S.W. National Ass, is a
director of the soi-disant “Democratic” Sydney
Daily Telkgryph.
At Treverson, Northampton, W.A., W.
0. Glass, squatter, aged 50, has shot dead his
two grown-up daughters and poisoned himself
because one of the girls had, with the encourage-
ment of her sister, decided to marry without his
consent.
The latest official returns, just cabled, re-
garding the Mutual Li fe Insurance Co. of New York,
show, after a critical examination of the affairs of
the Co. to Jan, 1, ’93, that the income for ’92 was
000,000 sterling—being a gain of <£loo,ooo
over the year 1891. The assets had increased to
<£35,900,000, showing a gain of <£2,700,000, and
the surplus had increased to .£3,000,000, showing
a gain of <£500,000.
It is quite true that any evening about
seven o’clock, in Pitt-street, Sydney, a mob of
hungry white men may be seen congregated out-
side an iron gateway waiting to grab through the
rails crusts handed to them in charity by a China-
man. It is also true that lately, just before eight
o’clock every evening in Hunter-street, Sydney,
every lamp and verandah - post has had
leaning against it a more or less stalwart white
man or two, hungrily awaiting the hour when the
surplus food of the day is handed out in charity
at Chinnery’s fish-shop. The other evening the
present writer counted 38 men hanging round for
a meal.


MEDICAE. Herr RASSMUSSEN’S MEDICAL.
CELEBRATED BLOOD and NERVE REMEDIES.
A.lfaline Vitality Fills
(registered)
Cares the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
mwiEm
&
a
DECERNEE
&
&
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—awarded—
GOLD MEDAL!
SVIIMA and PARIS.
SSt CURED 100,000.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
df
Declaration.
T THOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
JL, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassinussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALF ALINE PILLS also cured ray wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the P«ace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist. —Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albert, 0-1 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. — A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 100
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and Cs
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. Cd. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
and Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., Cs., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/G.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CUKES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
,vP
%■,
OM
O
PRESENTEDTo
m
Esq
h.p. Rasmussen
4r
VP
o
—BOTANIST
a
2
o AsaTOKEN ofCRATITUDE C
3- From NINE of his PATIENTS ™
.for Having Restored TheNk /
A b «• h I
§Y.
SEP
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
V
X
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “The Alkaline
Remedies. ” Author of “ The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
Paris and Sydney ; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer & Proprie tor
of tub CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
wh’ch have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And whieh are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
Derr Rassmussen’s Diploma.
y
# VN«iSIENNE/ )£SA] _ j
s INDUSTRIES etEXPOSANTS e W<M
Piteis mmm wm mm mme
£Z)cccmc! tJfassmuMW
AVEC LE TITHE DE
0!(ctufo«. ?
J 3^
f "
LOCK PILLS
(REGISTERED)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials.
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain ?”
Indisputable Evidence.
GOLD MEDAL
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
he Genuine.
“ Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.” —Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials ot
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalisf, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.),
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the bona jidcs of his testimonials appear to be well
established.” —S.A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.”— Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, T
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable. — Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
Tlio well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rass-
MUSSEN. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your A.lfaline Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use. —Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and Cs. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and moustaches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s.
and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Vitality Bills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/G ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BIiOOH.
Ordinary Course, 23/G ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
AU PACKETS SENT UNOBSERVED.
"The Natural Doctor.”
A valuable Herbal Work, by Herr Rassmussen, which contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Price, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSKN. Register all letters containing
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
Beware of Imitations !
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY ME OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS FOLLOWS:—
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Purify your Blood with Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla, the most thoroughly reliable altera-
tive ever compounded. For scrofula, boils,
ulcers, sores, carbuncles, pimples, and all
disorders originating in vitiated blood, this
medicine is unsurpassed. As a tonic,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
assists the process of digestion, stimu-
lates the liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated by fa-
tigue or illness. Many people waste money
by experimenting with compounds, the prin-
cipal recommendation of which would seem
to be their “ cheapness.” The most reliable
medicines are costly, and can be retailed at
moderate-'prices only when the manufactur-
ing chemist handles the raw materials in
large quantities. It is economy, therefore, to
Use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, the valuable com-
ponents of which are imported, wholesale,
from the regions where these articles are
richest in medicinal properties.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowed, Mass.,
IT. S. A. Sold by Druggists and MedicineVcndoro
Cures others* will cure you
T
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST. AND
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THa WORLD.
N
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the
LABOUR you can produce more polish
with TWO Packets of the “RISING
SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
B
%wden
PRODUC
So,
S A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.<
"all Grocers and Storekeepers.
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR
A soothing, cooling, emollient milk for the
skin. It prevents and removes freckles, tan,
sunburn, redness and roughness of the skin,
soothes and heals stings of insects, eczema,
prickly heat, and all irritations, produces soft
fair skin and a lovely delicate complexion. It
is warranted free from any lead or mineral
ingredients, and is perfectly harmless to the most
delicate skin. Bottles 2s. 3 d. and 4s, 6 d. Ask for
Rowlands’ Kat.ydob, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is a pure and
scientifically prepared tooth powder; it whitens
the teeth, prevents decay and sweetens the
breath.
Barits Tricopherous
rr-J
HAIR
FOR THE
aho
MIMS
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
iupiiia cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
Reuter’S Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
sd
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate but by their general action please all wht*
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Irote#-
sion. Th e smallest and easiest to take, _ Forty in a phial.
J\ Perfect Food,
HORLICK’S
aanvw
MILK
fs
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
df
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
FOR TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barle}.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick I)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
ill fants. “The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk,"
— Lancet , April 4. 1891.
MALTED milk, as a food for In-
liJL valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants,'
—British Medical Journal , April 18,1891.
> Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
» Of all Chemists and Druggists.
> Wholesale Agents .
I Eli.iott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
[ MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C
Bachelor : “I wonder if there’s any truth
in the idea that married men live longer than un-
married.” Married Host: “It seems longer.”—
Amer.
On the Block smoking G N IJ N Darlings.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (George-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zvonile, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address—Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
' Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing "of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
“All about the Skin, Scalp, and Haie ” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
ico Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure,
50c.; Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
sd
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi-
ccited toilet soap and the only presientive of inflammation atid clogging of the pores, the cause of
most compie x ion a I disfgii rations. Price, 25c.
NEWTON & LAMB,
MANUFACTURERS OF HIGH-CLASS ARTISTIC FURNITURE.
LIBRARY and OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. ENCLOSED
WASHSTANDS. HAT STANDS. COPYING PRESSES, &C.
EEII
FALL front pedestal writing tables in oak.
WALNUT, &C. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS AND STOOLS.
sft. Roll Top Desk, £l3 10s.
A COMPLETE SELECTION OF OFFICE FURNITURE IN STOCK : SPECIAL
DESIGNS MADE TO ORDER.
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
OEI3INAL and BEST TONIC. OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED.
Captain Fisher, Stipendiary Magistrate, writes: —“ I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and I am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic properties.”
Captain Heselton, J.P-, Chairman Poit Jackson Steamship Company, writes: — “For many years I have
used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE, and 1 can therefore personally testify to its many excel e t strengthening
properties. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to tlie employees of th ' company, and always
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative, a
thing which even the robust sometimes require. I gladly subscribe my name to endorse the merits of a remedy like
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.”
J. M'Farlane, Esq., M.L.A., writes ; — “ Having been a great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number of
years,* and having used a number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks’use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed for your
Tonic has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted.”
N.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
N~.B. MARSH ALL’S.TON IC NERVINE is warranted to he absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs.
On Sale Everywhere at 3s. and :!s. (id. a Koltle,
lyr A 'FtSHALI-. BROS., Sole Mairufactiirers.
fs
df
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab’e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neok,
and include amount, to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM k MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SYDNEY.
[IA.LES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price—One Shilling.
ASK FOH
SCHWEPPE’S
TABLE WATERS
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
<£49,460 worthfor o£l.
See Amusement
Column
The Heiress: A Love Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was a lover and Ids lass, botli miserably poor,
but with too much sense to marry on mere love.
So they tearfully, decided that the lover should go
out into the cold world and- seek his fortune. He
went, and his lass saw him aboard the camel at
Bourke.
She remained alone in the one-horse township.
But not quite alone, for, in the process of the
suns, she successfully affiliated three little inno-
cents upon as many local aldermen.
At last her lover returned, poor as a church-
mouse. He had not bettered himself, but still
the sacred fire of 'affection flamed in his honest
heart.
So they met again—hoping to be parted never-
more. Yet, the first flush of the rapturous meet-
ing past, he began to gloom.
She tried to coax and cheer him. “We can get
married now, dear,” she cooed, softly.
He twitched nervously in moody silence. At
length the answer came.
“ How can we? Ye’re an heiress now. 1 hey 11
say I’m marry in’ ye for yer money.”
“ Let them say it,” said she, bravely.
And he let them.
J.P.O.
The Librarian of Pipe-Clay Flat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mont was a reg’lar scholard,
And he alius used to say
That lie thought the intellectooal
Was neglected down our way.
Cards at times was right enough
And “ bones” he’d not decry,
But the brain, he said, got rusty
Even when the stakes was high. •
Free libraries was spreadin’,
And towns that led the way
Were —if not a little smaller —
No bigger nor Pipe-Clay.
At last we held a meetin’,
When it was moved by Mont—
“ That a readin’-room an'd hbr’y
Would fill a long-felt want.”
Then he read the regulations
Of the Sandbed Institution,
And we carried them “ in totcr ”
By another resolution.
Applications was invited
In the Miner and Agrarian
From persons qualified to fill
The duties of librarian.
There was amongst the number
Of them that sought the job
A little hunchbacked feller
The boys all knew as Bob.
Now, I’d like to know the reason
Why sickly, helpless blokes
Has alius to look after
Some helpless women folks 1
Bob wei’en’t no exception—
His mother was bedrid,
And he’d got a little sister,
A tiny, helpless kid.
We had jest made up our minds
To put him in the billet,
When Mont he rose to order _
And said Bob couldn’t fill it.
Accordin’ to rule seven,
He said, it was directed
“ That persons kickin’ up a row
Should promptly be ejected.”
Then he pointed to rule eight.
Which was plain to any fools,
“ The librarian is empowered
T’ enforce the foregoin’ rules.”
Mont’s argument was fatal
And we was shuntin’ Bob,
When suddenly we listened
To a smothered sort o’ sob.
Behind some forms and benches
Was a tiny little mite,
A small, old-fashioned youngster,
And we brought her to the light.
“ Whose kid are you ?” we arst her
When she had dried her eyes.
“ Bob’s sister,” and she added —
“I shan’t tell you no lies.
“ Ma sent me here to find, sir,
Out who had got the job,
And we was both a-wonderin’
If there’s any chance for Bob.
“ Bob ain’t much of a fighter,
But the only one we’ve got.
And if yer’d make him libryann
You’d find him on the spot.
“ If coves come in that’s liquored,
And cuss and make a noise—
Why ! I could give a hand there—
I could run and fetch the boys.”
All this she said like lightnin’,
And then looked on the ground,
But none of us said nothin’,
And the chairman shifted round.
She was standin’ not far from him,
And he beckoned quietly,
And when she walked up to him
He took her on his knee.
She looked once round the table,
As if the meeting she defied,
Then, as the chairman stroked her hair,
She hid her head and cried.
Then Mont, he put a motion,
Which was carried on the nods —
“That Bob should be librarian,
And damn the bloomin’ odds.”
WIREMU.


“August
Flower”
Perhaps you do not believe tnese
Statements concerning Green’s Au-
gust Flower. 'Well, we can’t make
you. We can’t force conviction in-
Doubting
Thomas.
to your head or med-
icine into your
throat. We don’t
want to. The money
is yours, and the
misery is yours; and until you are
willing to believe, and spend the one
for the relief of the other, they will
stay so. John H. Foster, 1122
Brown Street, Philadelphia, says;
“ My wife is a little Scotch woman,
thirty years of age and of a naturally
delicate disposition. For five or six
years past she has been suffering
Vomit
/ •
Every Meal.
from Dyspepsia. She
became so bad at last
that she could not sit
down to a meal but
she had to vomit it
as soon as she had eaten it Two
[bottles of your August Flower have
cured her, after many doctors failed.
She can now eat anything, and enjoy
It; and as for Dyspepsia, she does not
know that she ever had it. * * ®
Established 1876 _
ASTHMA
CURE
I WRITE TOR
r d?
HAIR'S
r TREATISE/
ON I
ASTHMA^]
sdf
sd
<x *AflentSt
/idSS 6 ,
*Sydney Elliott Bros. I
Brisbawe: Elliott BrwTtT
ldiM >L(t
veui w CToMTsMdaMM*
<=>£
«o
<9
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
k FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
'
v°
■°°«d Street
Bewareofimitations. The genuine fgsigned
'TRADE MARK:;
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
IHVICORAtob
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
_ BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: "It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kex.i,y L.R.C.P., Edin , soys he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Olaremont, Hastings, England
All ends in smoking 6NUN Darlings,
We’d better buy G N IT N Darlings.
Fancy ! GN U N Darlings threepence each.
Sterling value, G N’IT N Darlings.
|B|SM»MI*MHHHI
Full Muafc Size and Guaranteed Correct.
fs
m
df
or
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B,
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
669. Maggie Murphy’s Home.
685. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in C.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 in P.
618. Remember now thy Creator.
619. Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
672. Dear Old Chums Polka (Just, pub-
lished). (Gautier.)
580. An Oid Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
581. Thecountry wedding Barn Dance
W. H. BROOME,
15 lIoLBORN, London, K.C. ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock-
How to Learn “ The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is-
Est. 18451 trade SUPPLIED. (list. 1845
Can also be obtained Jrom any local music store or
bookseller.
c£49,460 worthfor i!l.
See Amusement
Column.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
r^*s»fV
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED ch.ldren’s SWEET)
g C /fCn (■‘l.'C/S- "
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, February 21, 1803.
r |TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8.
Bridge, Wallaga Lake, road Bermagui to Tilba
Tilba
Bridge, Moruya River, at Kiora
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
Alterations to Lift Walls, Public Offices, Bridge
Street
Construction of Engine House and Pump Well,
&c., Dubbo Water Supply. (Fresh tenders.)
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22.
Bridge, Bogan River, at Stone Crossing, road
Cannonbar to Gerilambone
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal-
lerawang, at Cooerwull.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge, Back Creek, at Marsden
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Medical.
HAT IT IS MAD E OE.
It is simply the most wonderful remedy the
world has ever seen for the immediate relief and
cure of rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful
diseases. Its remarkable action has mystified
doctors, delighted sufferers, arid dispelled the
doubts of the most incredulous. Its virtues are
praised by thousands all over the land, who have
been rescued from years of suffering and torture
with every species of disease, and granted a neW
lease of health and activity. When physicians
have certified to their inability to cure rheumatism,
neuralgia, and other very painful disorders, by
giving up their patients to the stubborn claims of
protracted disease and possible death itself, the
St. Jacobs Oil, by its unpretentious merit, has
gained in every instance yet greater fame from its
almost magical influence over these diseases. This
remedy has no uncertain or miraculous history;
its decided power resides in a peculiar volatile oil,
carefully distilled from thePiNUS Sylvesteis, and
has been usrid and distributed for hundreds of
years by the inhabitants of the Black Forest, a
mountainous and densely-wooded region in Baden
and Wurtemburg, Germany. The introduction of
the St. Jacobs Oil into Australia has been attended
with the same distinguished results as have ever
characterised its employment in America and
Europe ; and its adoption as the national remedy
for rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful diseases
is assured. When it is considered that this won-
derful pain-banisher and health-restorer can be
had at all drug-stores for such a small sum, it
appears as a matter of duty to every sufferer with
rheumatism, neuralgia, or kindred complaints to
seek the relief which St. Jacobs Oil cannot fail to
give. Try it and you will be convinced. It can
be obtained from all chemists and druggists.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES,
Dr. Alexr. Pa ters on,
301 Macquarie Street, Sydney,
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
riOll) ! GOLD » GOLD ! Western Australian
Goldfields afford to Investors and others a certain
opportunity of recouping all recent losses. Information
can be obtained by applying to THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
MINING SYNDICATE, Salisbury Buildings, Bourke
Street West, MELBOUNRE.
Business Announcement.
JOHN LAWLER L SONS,
608 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
3- ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for
.£l9 19s. 6d.
4- HOUSE FURNISHED for £32
17s.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £5O
10-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for ,£lOO
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY,
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
and IRONMONGERY,
GLASSWARE and CHINA,
ELECTRO PLATED GOODS,
SPECIAL LINES IN EVERY
DEPARTMENT.
Suites in all colors and materials. Prices begin at
=£7 10s.
We upholster our own Suites, and can give the
best value.
Early English Suites of 9 Articles, in Tapestry
and Plush, .£lO 10s.
Suites are quite a speciality with us. We generally
have between 10 and 20 to select from, uphol-
stered in all the pretty patterns and styles
imaginable.
Our Occasional Suites are exceedingly pretty, and
of good value ; they have a ready sale, and our
stock is always nice and fresh.
We have exceptionally good value in Walnut
Inlaid Cabinets and Sideboards and Occasional
Tables ; also, Bedroom Furniture.
In fact, we are enabled to do the best for our cus-
tomers throughout, simply because we are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues
(Free by Post.)
Communicate freely, you will be promptly
answered.
JOHN LAWLER A SONS,
008 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Laud A ICiiilding Co., Limited,
PITT AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY-
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant,Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
&3T As an illustration ; —For a Block, 5 acres, at
<£lo per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
.£1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
£1 17s. (id., £2 10s., £3 155., .£s—condition, MOth
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the .£5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate; or,
WATKIN k WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney-
THE AUSTRALIA HOTEL,
Casti.erkagh Street, SYDNEY.
The tariff, which includes Meals and Baths, ranges
from Twelve and Sixpence (12s. fid.) per day upwards.
A discount to permanent residents. This Hotel is
admitted lo be without a rival in Australia. The cuisine
is first-class. Four Billiard Tables. Large and well
ventilated Smoking-room. Reading-rooms and handsome
Drawing-room.
For all particulars apply to
IT. EDWIN MOORE, MANAGER.
<£49,460 worthfor «£l.
See Amusement
Column.
Not merely a stake in the country, dear
Ass. It’s a steak out of the country, you want.
Tottie Fay, the “Lady” Munro (only
more so) of London has at last been sent to a
lunatic asylum.
Purves, Q. 0., orating at Melb. Town Hall,
put a patriotic conundrum to the sympathetic
meeting. “In Canada —that great and brilliant
star in the constellation of, the British empire—a
movement was oh foot to help the people of
Queensland ; arid if our Canadian friends did
this, what must we not do ?” asked Purves. Sub-
sequently the wealthy barrister contributed £5 to
the Floods Fund, at one fell swoop. Probably he
reckoned that his presence on the platform was
equal to a cheque for half-a-million sterling.
At Bondi you can buy G N U N Darlings.
The health of Premier Ballance, of Maori-
land, still causes anxiety, though the real state of
affairs is kept mysteriously quiet, and the patient
resents any allusion to it. Mentally, he is as
strong as ever —his head is clear, he takes a keen
interest in public affairs, and presides over Cabinet
meetings (held at his house) with great ability,
but his physical strength is gone. He is all
brain, no muscle. Last session he constantly
forced himself to go on when Nature cried stop,
and got through big things on the top of stimu-
lants —no grog —only to collapse when the debate
was done. A prolonged holiday then might have
saved him, but even if he consented to leave
Maoriland now the doctors would not risk a sea-
trip, and he cannot rest within reach of his col-
leagues, One day he is better, the next day there
is a dangerous relapse and a consultation. Now
massage and magnetism are being tried. There
is keen sympathy for him, as he is the strong man
of Maoriland, and has gained wonderfully in re-
putation during the present Parliament.
The Robb (Q.) arbitration case is even a
bigger thing than the late Queensland Investment
cases. Griffith, as Attorney-General, fixed the
Eroeedure, and was appointed by the—er —Crown
>aw Office as leading Crown counsel with a <£soo
brief and a daily refresher of 35 guineas. Byrnes,
Solicitor-General, received a .£4OO brief with 30
guineas a day refresher ; and ex-democrat Drake
took what practically seems a silencer marked
£2OO with 18 guineas a day refresher. Besides
this, Griffith draws <£l3oo a year as a Crown
Minister, and Byrnes <£looo. Drake also snavels
£3OO as an M.L.A. Compare this with Robb’s
counsel, which includes men of such standing as
Virgil Power and Edwin Lilley, whose briefs are
marked £l5O and £lOO, with refreshers equal to
15 and 12 guineas a day respectively, and the
audacity of the jobbery is apparent.
It was “Tommy” Kelly, the glorified
storeman in the white tile, who, at Sydney
National Ass meeting last week, moved the abo-
lition of payment of members. The collective
Ass was in such a hurry to affirm this principle-
one of several clauses in a long resolution —that it
actually dealt with that “by acclamation ”
first, and didn’t wait to hear the whole reso-
lution read. Present were Messrs. Dangar
(squatter), De Salis (squatter), James Norton
(attorney), T. Buckland (agent for the vast
Cooper land-monopoly), T. Rowe (amateur
colonel), R. J. Black (stockbroker), Tommy Kelly
(mining speculator), Captain Hinds (commission
merchant), E. C. Batt (auctioneer), A. J. Cape
(stockbroker), J. M. Purves (auctioneer), Charles
Hayes (stock-exchange secretary), and so on, and
so on. Figs don’t grow on thistles. And men’s
politics usually fit their trade.
The Young Victorian (bogus) Patriots
League, after one year of glorious existence, ha s
come to the conclusion that an annual subscription
of a “ bob ” is insufficient to maintain its prestige
as a great political force. And seeing that the
average patriot doesn’t seem disposed to cash up
his shilling for the coming year without a severe
struggle, the born leaders of the League are losing
heart. They despair of being able to save the
country without, at least, one paid secretary, inas-
much as the secretaries who are not paid have a
habit of being forced to resign on account of
pressing business obligations. The League, as
one speaker observed, desires, “ by discussion and
otherwise, to awaken the political aspirations of
the great mass of the young men of Victoria,’'
but as long as the mass hang on to loose silver
there is no hope for the future, and the country
will have to go to the Devil.
The improvement in street advertising
which is constantly going on, is marked in a very
distinct by a design which has just been
erected qvyr, tne entrance of the Theatre Royal
Hotel in Castlereagh-st., Sydney, by Messrs. De
Lissa & Phillips, directing attention to the brand
of Y.O. Crorpapty Whisky, for which they are the
agents. The sign in question includes four hand-
somely illuminated mirrors, 7ft. Bin. x sft. 6in.,
illustrating the bottle, which is most artistically
executed, the perspective being well studied,
while the remainder of the apace is occupied by
the name of the whisky, each letter of which is
represented on the face of a banner, the effect of
the whole being very striking. The plan and
execution of the design in question was carried
out by Mr. Phillip J. Weekes, the well-known
artist decorator of Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
SET YOUR WHOLE ENERGY
In what you are engaged. Honest labour will
then be the result. Wolfe’s Schnapps quickens
the nerves and clears the cloudy brain.
REMINDED OF HIS DEAD MOTHER.
[extract prom a private letter.]
It was the latter part of August, 1891. A friend
and I had come down from Ramsgate to Minster,
to see the venerable church there, which is a
thousand years old. I entered the churchyard
and seated myself upon a nameless grave while he
went in search of somebody to unlock the doors of
the edifice and show its wonders. In a few
minutes ho returned in company with an elderly
lady, to whom he introduced me, saying she was
the custodian and guide of the place. I gazed at
her face for some moments without a word. If
my own mother, dead and gone 15 years, had
come back to speak to her only son, I should
scarcely have been more astonished. For this
woman was almost my mother’s double ; the same
size, the same face, and the same way of parting
the hair and combing it in smooth bands from the
forehead. I told her so, and we were friends
before either fairly knew the other’s name. What
a queer world it is.
She then conducted us through the ancient
fane, and spoke of the long vanished past, of the
monks and nuns who once sang and prayed with-
in its walls, of the quaint carvings on the hard
oak seats in the chancel, of that precious relic, the
Cranmer Bible, which reposes in a glass box
against a pillar, and of many matters besides,
drawn from the apparently exhaustless well of her
detailed and accurate information.
Finally the talk veered round to the wholesome-
ness of the vicinity, the bracing nature of its sea
breezes, and so on. Then our guide, Mrs. Sarah
Herd, said :—“I have lived here in Minster 50
years, and seen many ups and downs. One of my
sons is now in America, where he is doing well.
He wants me to leave England and make my home
with him, but I doubt if I ever shall. lam some-
what like that old yew-tree out in the yard, deeply
rooted to this soil, and might be the worse for
pulling up. Then lam getting on in life, and ills
grow apace with age. In the spring of 1878 I had
a serious attack. At first I scarcely knew what
to make of it. There was no disease that I recog-
nised in particular. I felt tired in body and
weary in mind. There was much pain at my
chest and back, and a kind of tightness at the
sides, as though physical force were applied there
to restrain me from moving. My appetite, which
was usually good, fell away ; and whatever I ate
or drank gave me pain, and I lived almost entirely
on bread and water. I was always in pain and
couldn’t sleep so as to feel refreshed by it. After
a time I grew so weak as to be unable to go about
my work. A bitter and sickening fluid arose into
my mouth, and I perspired to such an extent that
the sweat sometimes rolled off my face to the
floor.”
I (the writer) break in upon Mrs. Herd’s story
at this point merely to say that this tendency to
sweat without the provocation of labour or of
exercise is always a sign of a debilitated condition
of the system.
It means that the blood is impure and im-
poverished, the kidneys working badly, and that
the body lacks nourishment and is living feebly on
what was previously stored in it. In other words,
the stomach has refused its duty and the other
organs are in sympathy with it. Now we will let
the lady proceed, begging pardon for the inter-
ruption.
She went on to say:—“For a time I tried to
cure myself with various domestic remedies which
sometimes answer. But they failed, and I con-
sulted a physician. With all respect to the doctors,
they occasionally fail too. This one did. You
know there comes a time in all long illnesses when
we get in some way used to pain and misery, and
make no further efforts to get rid of it. In fact,
we don’t know how, and so don’t try. For about
three years I remained wretched and ailing, and
dull unhappy years they were. My sufferings
were beyond all I had ever known before, yet
there seemed nothing to do but to bear them as
patiently as I could. At this date, 1881, certain
friends of mine spoke to me of the great benefit
they had received from the use of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, for indigestion and dyspepsia. This threw
light on my mind, although I cannot say it made
me at once a believer in Seigel’s Syrup. At
length, however, in July 1881, I began to take it.
In all I used six bottles, and found my health
fully restored. Ten years have elapsed, and I
have had no attack since. But if Ido in future I
shall know where to put my hand on the remedy.”
Our visit being virtually over, we called for a
few moments at Mrs. Herd’s home, 2, High-street,
Minster, Kent, and then wended our way back to
Ram sgate. 0. M. R.
New York, October, 1891.


G N U N Darlings. Q N U N Darlings.
Darlings.
Be a swell and smoke G N U N Darlings.
In the train, smoke GNUN Darlings.
PEMELL'S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
A home comfort —G NUN Darlings.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co,, and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co,,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and ElliotT Bros. & Co., Brisbane ; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Sunday at the Cheap-Doss Lodging-
House.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has always been a mystery to me how any
man of sense can even faintly hope to cure the
drunkard or the pickpocket by merely reminding
him that perhaps he has had a good mother. Yet
this is just what a parcel of well-meaning folk do
every seventh day in that receptacle for failures,
the Melbourne Cheap - Doss Lodging - House.
Around the room as they enter, are scattered men
of every calling, from the broken lawyer, who
has loved whisky too well, to the poor sailor who
has just had enough self-control to save from the
den where he swallows his poison the price of a
sixpenny doss.
Many of the inmates have seen the inside of a
gaol, and many have come for a rest and a chat,
although unable to purchase the right to lay their
heads upon a pillow. Hungry often, cold in
winter, smarting under a shadowy sense of
injury done them by the men who, are rich, whilst
they are struggling to keep the mere life in them-
selves, they are supposed to forget all these things
and emit a contrite tear when the leader of the
male and female Evangelical troupe reminds them
that, perhaps, they have a good mother. The
old ladies who long for the souls of the dear
men gaze searchingly around the forms to see
where their shaft has struck home, but the men
continue to read the sporting and other papers,
save, perhaps, when a larrikin among them bids
the speaker “dry up,” or when a bold, evil-look-
ing man'ventures to protest against our Lodgings
being invaded against our will.
“Now, sir, pardon me a second,” exclaims a
ragged solicitor, rising on a bench. “Tins is our
home, and you have no more right to push religion
down our throats here, than we have to organize
a gang to invade your parlour, and force our ideas
down yours. Leave me alone ! Leave me ” —but
the head bed-maker has “chucked” him into the
rain ere he can complete the sentence. It is
beautiful to see the countenance of the preacher
whilst the chucking-out is in progress. As the
thin, pale-faced denizen of Little Bourke-street
disappears head-foremost through the doorway,
the eyes of the sainted evangelist become almost
angelic in their expression of resignation to the
martyrdom their owner is undergoing. They seem
■to say, “I forgive you poor, dear scoundrels.
Hell-deserving though you be, I pardon you.”
“Go home to your dinner,” cries a voice—at
which the bedmaker thinks of evicting all the
audience. But the leader of the troupe has
finished, and, with a snort and a flourish, the
cornet begins to bray forth a sacred solo.
It isn’t in human nature to listen to a sermon
when one wants one’s dinner. Bub probably the
evangelicals deem that that little appeal about the
good mother outweighs this consideration. At
any rate, though no one responds to the invitation
to throw down their bundle of sins, the troupe
don’t look at all downcast. Having done their
duty they leave the rest in the Lord’s hands. Only
a sigh is sighed—a sigh of commiseration for the
dark, benighted audience—and the service is over.
There is a great shaking of hands, which costs
little to either side, and then the troupe go home
to their roast mutton and turnips, and the solicitor
who has been, “ slung ” out returns to the stove to
dry his sodden clothes.
HORACE F.
Lock Suey’s Love Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Look Suey was a small, plain, work-a-day
Chinee, as hoinely as a willow-pattern plate, but
gentle and deferential in manner, and possessed
of an ineffable celestial smile with which he
sunned his friends and conciliated his enemies.
Lock grew cabbage on the bank of Bircher’s
Creek, and lived alone, apart from his country-
men at the camp, with whom he appeared
to differ on some points of theology. He had a
god of his own, a small, subordinate, pipeclay
version of the original Joss, and being a pietist of
extreme zeal his vice-divinity had about as good a
time of it as any reasonable, right-minded god
could expect to have in a poor man’s family.
Lock Suey had built a gaudy shrine
under the lee of his hut, and here the
horrid little god was ensconced in gaudy
state, surrounded with much tinsel and many
high-coloured cracker-wrappers. Before this little
hardware deity, Lock worshipped with commend-
able regularity and great earnestness, sometimes
in silence but with gymnastic genuflections, at
others with a terrific howling, and kicking, and
gnashing of teeth. The supernumerary god repaid
Suey’s devotion a hundredfold : Suey’s garden
was the most prolific in the district, and Suey
was believed to be a bloated capitalist amongst
Chinese.
I was fossicking in the gully and had the cradle
rigged on the opposite bank of the creek, and so
was often a witness to Lock Suey’s devotions.
“ What Suey pray for now?” I asked a scoffing
Mongol one afternoon when the devotee was even
more declamatory and exacting than usual.
“Him want to mallee Missie Salah. Ask him
god all a-same long time. Savee ?” was the re-
sponse of the grinning scoffer.
I did “savee.” Lock was importuning his
household god to favour his suit with Red Sarah,
a local lady of unsavoury reputation. Sarah was
large and ugly and combative, and as the
heathen’s god seemed attentive only to Suey’s
best interest, it appeared unlikely that it would
move to further this mistaken ambition. Suey
persisted, however, in carrying on his courtship
through the medium of his god, and I became
quite familiar with the particular rite, and deeply
interested in the Chow’s aspirations. One night
he made a special effort; he, for three hours, dis-
charged crackers before his private Joss, and I was
not at all surprised on finding a few days later
that the divinity had yielded to his importunities,
and interested itself on his behalf, and that Sarah
and Mr. Lock Suey had been married before the
registrar at dunes.
Mrs. Suey was a quiet and tractable wife for
just two days. On the third day I heard expostu-
lations and wild Chinese cries proceeding from the
hut. On the fourth day I saw Suey thrown out
bodily. On the evening of the fifth day, as I was
walking down the gully on the right, I saw Mr.
and Mrs. Lock Suey engaged in an animated com-
bat in the garden. Mrs. Suey was destroying the
vegetables by pounding her lord down on top of
them as often as he cared to come up. Finally,
with a rush and a whoop, she swung the mis-
guided pagan by his flowing pig-tail right out into
the middle of the creek, and then retired from my
view behind the hut.
Presently Suey climbed up out of the water,
covered with sludge. He was mad. Snatching
up a wood-axe from the ground, he followed his
wife. I heard a yell, and a series of dull thuds.
“ Murder ! ” With a rush and a bound I was
down the hill and through the Chow’s scrub fence,
and reached the back of the hut just in time to
see Lock Suey demolishing the last remnants of
his pottery god, and scattering the ornaments of
the shrine to the winds. He beat the fragments
of his earthenware deity into dust, and then stood
aside, scowling like a man glutted with vengeance,
whilst his fond spouse squatted on the ground and
laughed till she choked.
Since that eventful day Lock Suey has been an
uncompromising Atheist, I believe.
Vic.
SILAS SNELL.
My Pretty Partners.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Brown and I, strangers to Brisbane, were having
an after-dinner smoke in the Imperial Hotel,
and didn’t quite know what to do with ourselves.
“What do you say to this?” said Brown, who
was reading the Courier, “ Ball at the Hall.
Admission, 4s. May as well have a look at the
natives. Needn’t dress.”
A, jingle dropped us at the entrance, and after
disbursing the necessary coin we entered. There
were about 250 inside, the sexes pretty evenly
divided. The costumes were noticeable for their
variety. One young man, the only one, in a dress-
coat, rather added to its effect by wearing a blue-
spotted white waistcoat buttoned to the chin, and
a red tie. Elastic-side kid boots were in high
favour, there were a few. privates in uniform, and
two or three of the fair sex in evening-dress.
Brown left me to speak to some acquaintance,
and I found myself standing near a good-natured-
looking young fellow in uniform.
“ A big crowd here to-night!” I remarked.
“ Yes, it’s pretty full. Not dancing?” he
enquired. I explained that I did not know anyone
there.
“Oh!” he said, “ we’ll soon get over that.
I’ll be glad to introduce you to anyone you like to
point out.”
T thanked him, and indicated a very pretty
little girl in blue, also another not quite so pretty,
dancing with a man with shiny hair. As a
partner, the girl who had been dancing with the
shiny-haired man was disappointing, but she
enlightened my , ignorance concerning several
matters of ball-room etiquette. For instance, I
found that whoever brought a girl to the ball had
the right of dancing with her all the evening, but
■the shiny-haired man, she said, hearing that I was
a visitor, had good-naturedly lent her to me for
the dance. He now came to claim her. I was
sorry.
My next was with the pretty little girl in blue.
She was points ahead of any other girl in the room,
so far as looks were concerned. Ink couldn’t do
her justice, so I will not try to describe her,
beyond saying that she was just the prettiest,
sweetest-looking little thing I had seen for a very
long time. As she took my arm, a youth, pulling
a timid-looking, hatchet-faced young man after
him, touched her shoulder.
“Hey, Maud, where yer goin’?” he enquired,
“ here’s Sara come to have ’is darnce with yer.”
“Very sorry to disappoint your friend, but the
lady is engaged to me for this dance,” I explained.
“No she ain’t,” he rudely answered ; “she’s
going to dance it with my friend, Sam, here.
She’s my sister and I brought her. Where’s yer
programme, Maud ?”
“ INe lost it,” she stammered, looking charming
in her confusibn.
“ Well, it is no use talking,” I observed, “the
dance has started, and what you want to say you
can say afterwards.”
_ As we moved away, Samuel spoke for the first
time. “Yer’ve done me this time. Yer funny,
ain’t yer ?’’ he said to her.
She raised her lovely eyes and glanced at him.
Her sweet lips, moist with the dew of perfect
health, parted :
“Garn!” she retorted, “what yer givin’ us?
Taffy on a stick, or moonshine on a shovel ?”
J.F.S.
FALSE.
Be silent, pray with close-sealed lips
That hide what lie beneath—
Your tongue is false, o’er truth it trips,
So, madame, are your teeth.
PAUL MELL.
Editor Bulletin, —Even the unemployed
received the sympathetic consideration of the late
Chief Justice Higinbotham. Just before the great
shipping strike in 1890 the Melbourne “out of
works ” appointed a roving commission of two
with instructions to wait upon “distinguished
persons.” They acted as a “surprise party,” and,
accompanied by the unemployed and some
reporters (usually of the Herald) waited, without
notice, upon every “ distinguished ” aristocrat,
plutocrat, or theocratic hierarch in Melbourne,
from Gov. Hopetoun downward (or upward ?), and
industriously advertised the misery of the unem-
ployed. When all these potentates had solemnly
assured them that the agitation was “ruining the
credit of the colony,” and that if any were unem-
ployed it was entirely because of their impious
refusal to accept low wages, the deputation
decided to pour out their tale of woe to the one
righteous man in Sodom, George Higinbotham.
They found him at the Supreme Court, and,
though interviewed without notification the little*
great man received them with the kindly courtesy
and quiet dignity so characteristic of him. He,
however, objected to the presence of reporters,
and throughout the interview seemed to carefully
avoid saying anything unfavourable of the actions
of the Government of the day. He expressed
himself as distinctly of opinion that it was the
duty of Government to find employment for those
who needed it, but would not inany way condemn
the Gillies-Deakin Administration for not having
done its duty in that respect. In fact, he im-
pressed upon the deputation that he spoke of
the duties of Government in general, not of the
Gillies-Deakin clique in particular. He struck
me as rather a Radical of, the old school than of
the new Socialist order, for though the deputation
warmly advocated Socialism he merely spoke
favourably of co-operative societies and ordinary
political reforms. He expressed strong and
evidently genuine sympathy for the involuntarily
unemployed, and though those deputed to officially
wave the ragged shirt of the unemployed had not
obtained from him the bold declaration they
wanted, which was that the Government should
at once start public reproductive works to absorb
the compulsorily idle, yet they went away satisfied
and impressed by his apparent complete sincerity
and the grave intellectual beauty of his face.—
One op the Deputation.


Luxury for the million, G N U if Darlings.
Rich and poor smoke G- N U N Darlings.
Pro bono publico. GNUN Darlings.
Never be without a G- N U N Darling.
All tobacconists sell 6NUN Darlings.
PEMELL’S
A.B.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
Pure Havana fillers —G NUN Darlings.
0001, mild’and sweet. G- NU N Darlings.
v
"V
M/f
y^crerkA.
m
!?jK
i
M
fm
r't
ZZi
m
Va
'gm
u
W
\
%
'*j/t
fcs
SHU
s
Doc Sartor’s Cosmetics.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Doc Sartor was deaf, very deaf. And here a
query obtrudes itself. If wc arise again in our
actual bodies, will poor old Doc Sartor have a
damaged tympanum that will debar him from the
enjoyment of the heavenly strains ?
And he was such a nice, honest, genuine, kindly
fellow —not much of a surgeon, but a good chemist
and a fair practitioner arnqng women and children
for minor ailments. Apropos of nothing, he was a
confoundedly bad cook.
When he and I reached Curleybilly Station we
got a job—myself as groom, the Doc as Jimmy-
Ducks, or wood-and-water Joey. And we each
chose a girl from the housemaids, nursemaids,
and laundresses. The cook was unchooseable,
being over the regulation weight of 12st. Now,
Sartor had two invaluable recipes—one for re-
moving tattoo marks and the other for abolishing
pimply and freckly complexions. I must say that
he fixed up his girl to the nines, but he positively
refused to let me have the prescription so that my
flame, Josephine MacGregor, might also appear
like a ripening peach instead of an ironbark
pumpkin. Things grew sultry and uncomfortable
when Josey accused me of not even trying to get
the cosmetic, and called me “no man” if I did
not get it out of the Doc somehow.
Now Gwenny Rogers was going to the town
one Saturday, and Horace Morgan was to drive
her. I heard Doc say, “ I’ll give Horace the pre-
scription,” but I did not hear him tell Smith that
he’d send for some stuff to take out that anchor
from the back of his hand. So I stole the half-
sheet of notepaper from Doc’s boot-cleaning bench
and gave it to Josey. She, poor thing, saddled
up her hack on Sunday and rode to the township.
She was suffering from mosquito bites and various
other bites, stings, freckles and ailments.
On Monday, an irate laundress scalded me with
soap-suds; she treated Doctor Sutor Sartor to a
similar dose, and there are now three vacancies at
Curleybilly. Wanted—Groom and Milkman ;
Rouseabout; also Laundress. Apply at once to
Manager, Curleybilly Station.
Extract from the Bandanna Pharos :—“ On
Tuesday last a young lady from Curleybilly was
driven to our local hospital by Mr. MacGreary,
the manager of the station. At first some form of
variola was suspected, but after repeated enquiries
by the wardsman and medical officer, it was dis-
covered that the lady (Miss MacGregor) had
foolishly attempted to remove some sunspots and
mosquito scars by an irritant lotion.”
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Preserving his Dignity.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
De Yerdon came out from England to Maoriland
about four months before I did, so when I landed
on the Auckland wharf, I quite expected that he
would be at work, and would perhaps be able to
help me to some.
I had his address, and went there at once. The
customary greetings over, I said: “Well, have
you got a billet ? ”
“Ah —not yet,” he replied languidly. “You
see, I’ve a good deal of money, so I haven’t
bothered myself much. I can—ah —soon get into
one of the banks with my testimonials.”
“Well, I hope you may,” I answered, “ but as
I’m hard-up, I must go to work at once. If I
can’t get into an office I’ll try for a billet as
gardener.”
“As gardener !” he replied in horror. “ Good
Heavens, you surely would not lower your dignity
by becoming a mere labourer? ”
“Dignity be hanged !” I answered. “ I left all
that sort of dignity in England. And, little as I
know of Maoriland, I’m pretty sure that if you
stick to your ‘ dignity,’ it’ll only serve as your
winding-sheet.”
Unable to get office-work, I had to pick and
shovel on the Whangarei railway.
In Auckland, some months later, I met De
Yerdon, looking rather seedy,
“ Have you get a billet yet ? ” I a,sked,
“Well, it isn’t much of a billet,’- he replied.
“ I’m addressing envelopes for Jerry Marshall, of
the arcade, bub I expect to get something better
soon.”
Six months passed ere we met again. Mean-
while, I had obtained a fair official berth.
De Yerdon was now looking very shabby; his
jewellery was “ hypothecated ” —which, as Mr.
Mortimer Franklyn (with a “ y ”) once remarked,
is a nicer word than “ pawned.”
“You don’t look as if you were getting on par-
ticularly well,” I said ; “ what are you doing ? ”
“ Oh ! nothing much,” he replied.
On being pressed he told me that he had been
turned out of his lodgings and that his clothes-
boxes had been detained for an unpaid bill. He
was now billiard-marking at the Bulldog Hotel.
A few months later he was the picture of seedi-
ness. “Good Heavens, man! what have you
been doing with yourself ? ” I asked.
“Nothing,” he answered, “ I can’t get any-
thing to do.”
“And are you doing nothing at all?” I
inquired.
“ Well, nothing much,” he replied.
“ What is it ? ” I asked.
“ Oh, nothing,” said he, as though wishing to
change the subject.
“Bub, hang it, can’t you tell me what you are
doing ?”
“Well,” he said at length, “I’m a bailiff’s
man! ”
He was a bum-bailiff ! Dignity ! Good Lord !
HARI KAREHI.
A Proposal.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There is no linguistic display about the Austra-
lian native’s love-making. He usually “goes
with ” the girl until everybody concerned has
come to take a match for granted, and then he
marries her.
I once had a hut-mate who was hopelessly
smitten with a bright little damsel, the daughter
of a Gippsland selector. He was a splitter, a good
hand amongst timber, fairly attractive in person,
and altogether eligible from the girl’s point of
view.
Tom gob along swimmingly till the time came
when, as his trifling acquaintance with the Family
Herald taught him, he should make a formal
declaration. His instincts were already perverted
by a small, but injudicious course of reading, and,
foolishly turning to the London Journal, Bow
Bells, and similar sentimental “dreadfuls” for
guidance in his hour of need, he started to fill
himself up with high-flown protestations of a mad
passion and long, low, soulful pleadings, after the
manner of Sir Reginald De Yere, the Young
Squire, and Percy Montmorency of the Guards.
This did not altogether suit the young man’s
constitution, but he stuck to it gamely. He per-
spired much over one chapter of “ Lady Violet’s
Lost Love,” and groaned his way through “A
Shattered Heart,” and for a fortnight it was
impossible to get any sleep in that hut till Tom
had been forcibly deprived of his library, and
then bombarded into silence with boots and fire-
wood. He had a distressing habit of reading in
an audible whisper, and interlarding the matter
with fierce, monosyllabic criticisms.
However, Tom at length felt himself primed
and equal to the occasion, and he went forth, a
walking encyclopaedia of eloquent declarations, to
meet the girl. The fine erotic passages bubbled
up within him, but when he found himself seated
by the side of the bucolic beauty all his study
went for naught.
Tom : “ Bet you ain’t game to get married.”
The Girl (with great vivacity) : “ Ain’t I, bub.”
Tom : “ Not to me ?”
The Girl: “Bet a pound I am.”
Tom : “Done I”
The girl won the bet.
E.D.
“ What is there in common between the
priests and God ?”— Robespierre.
Speaker Bent, hot, perspiring and puffy*
bnd with two embarrassed red ears decorating his
aullet head, was a conspicuous object at the un-
veiling of Lalor’s statue at Ballarat. He struck
an imposing attitude with his clammy hand on his
chest while Gillies maundered down his feeble
stream of platitudes. And as Duncan roamed
round and round his one fact —that Lalor had
risen to be Speaker by the force of his own in-
herent greatness—and Bent oozed and sweltered
by his side, it was evident that the whole show
was Bent’s advertisement —not Lalor’s. “Only a
great man can attain the Speakership,” was the
sum total of Gillies’ oration. “Therefore lam a
great man,” was the answer reflected in Bent’s
smoking head and inflamed countenance.
It was a cold, wet, windy evening at
Invercargill, about the coldest, wettest, and
windiest town in all Maoriland. On the edge of
the sloppy pavement sat a large, drunken High-
lander in a glaring kilt and a “bonnet.” The
hinder part of his kilt was in a pool of water, and
his feet were in the sodden gutter, yet he slept
peacefully, and apparently rather liked the
weather than otherwise. At last a passer-by
noticed him, and, fearing he would take cold,
shook him up, and urged him to go home. The
braw Hielandman flatly declined to rise, and
grunted indignantly. Then the good Samaritan
grasped him under the arms and fairly dragged
him to his feet, whereupon he lifted up his voice
and spoke : “Mon,” he said fiercely, “I cam oot
the morn tae enjoy mesel’, an’ I’m gaen tae dae’t,
an’l dinna care a , an’ dinna ye interfere.”
And solemnly hitching up the tail of his kilt to
keep it out of the mire, he sat down in the same
pool of water, and relapsed into unconsciousness.
There were some dramatic incidents con-
neeted with the recently reported dynamite explo-
sion at a Parisian police-office. The offending
bomb was found—apparently in a black and harm-
less state—in the street, and conveyed by three
policemen to head-quarters. The usual,busybody
crowded in along with the officers, and stood
looking at the bomb as it lay on the table. The
commissary was one of those* grim, methodical
individuals who always finish one task before they
start another, so he told them to wait till he was
done writing a letter of no particular importance,
While they were waiting the infernal machine
went off, and one commissary, three policemen,
and one inquisitive stranger have been missing
ever since. The only thing discovered was a piece
of a human chest with six buttons on it. A man
who is so bound by red tape that he must needs
finish a letter before putting a newly-discovered
bomb under the pump, probably deserves his fate,
and so does the speculative individual who aecom-
panies a package of dynamite to the police station
merely by way of amusement. It was the latter
person’s chest that was discovered; the way the
commissary went can only be traced by a boot-
sole on a tree-top at some distance.
The appearance in court of Humphries,
ex-pressman, defaulting secretary of the Melb.
Employers’ Union, was thus described in a local
evening paper :
Humphries’ demeanour during the proceedings showed
that he was ill at ease, and viewed his position with an
anxiety that was distinctly traceable in the hectic flush
which suffused his broad, dark features, and in the rest-
less movement of his small, piercing, grey eyes. His
determined character was clearly outlined in the stern set
of his face when in repose and the tightly compressed
lips. Nevertheless, lines of care furrowed his forehead
and seamed his mouth. His neatly-trimmed brown beard,
which previously lent a handsome cast to his features,
was replaced by a week’s growth of whisker, plentifully
mixed with grey. &o.
'A lovely hunk of stereotype, this, from the news-
paperese language. And the cruelty of it—dog
eating dog! “11l at ease,” “the hectic flush,”
“the restless movement,” “the tightly-compressed
lips.” O, ye poor cripples! “Place the most
innocent and pleasing face behind these rails,”
once said Dailey, “ and it at once becomes a face
that expresses every passion.” Humphries got off
lightly with two years for forgery.
Characteristically Yankee letter from a
resident of the States to a Westralian :
Sir,—l have been talking to Some of Comeing to your
Country and I don’t fully understand the Natinal habits
of the Same. Please answer me the following Questions.
What language do you use have you President or King
how is yaur country Watered Wells or Springs. What is
your fuel Coal Wood &o. what Society, any wild game
and what kinds. Is it an agricultural Country Wheat
corn Oats Rye potatoes or what Value of land per acre
how is your Winters &c. or seassons what kind of money
do you "use same as ours or not. Pleas give me a full
description of yaur Country in general with some prices
as to labor and Kind of labor per day Week and month
and prices of food or board per week, and how can a man
get to your land from this and the best time of the season
to Come fall Winter Spring summer for safety as to the
water Voyge. Would you come by the way of Sanfran-
cisco California hoping to hear from you soon.
Every typical Yankee is a born journalist and
born business man —clear-seeing, terse, direct.
How many educated Englishmen would put so
much into so small a space as the above ? By the
way, The Bulletin’s model of vigorous con-
densation is the advt. on the paper which accom-
panies each box of “ Hough on Rats.”


Drapery.
’
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
$
SSi
aO
tot
HRAH
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE-
UNDEKVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at aJi High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
G-unmakers, \
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Send for List
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE WARUNG,”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Hot nyEATHER
A.T W EAR
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3a. 6d. & 5a 6d.
I
&
P 9 ’bs P 9 *se
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
G. H. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEAF
'NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
bj Peck's invisibly Tubular Bar Cushion*
Whispers heard. Successful wh«a all
remedies fail. Write for book of proois
A.M. HAST,
49 Elizabeth Street.
Melbourne.
[FREE,
WATSON
oil
WHISKY
t
:
l
6 a
Site
tlEsr on Earth
Sole Agents—
lilt’s Brewing Sc Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘l*rice ■^TO r a.^rca.J^^s > ~
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. 10d.
in stamps.
Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pltt-street to
Eastlereagh-streot),
Between King Je Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
m
IN THE VERY HEART OP THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, VVeddinar Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SS&KS tfOliK, Manager u
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
4>
'^/patent
h PILLS.
w\
tr*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable 1
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
tie found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeoham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkboham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es.9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—-Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
E PPS ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
CROMARTT
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements
i U
SCOTTIE '
Whisky
scow
“IP
ICOTTIE"
WHISKY-
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
." „ \.O . .
Sole Agent:
J. L. Hendersca,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
‘ A Go’ien Stanly.’
PBIOE : TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty, ” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
BETTER THAN GOLD.
—THE—
Dr. TYSON SA
It AND WICK.
Patients received for the Treatment of
OPIUM HABIT, DRUNKENNESS
and
NT enraatHexiia.
Cures Guaranteed. No Pain, Discomfort, or Restriction.
Private apartments and attendants if desired. Dr.
Tyson’s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case, and is the ONLY REMEDY which can be
taken at home with certainty of success. All business
strictly confidential.
For terms, etc., call on or address — H. Franklin,
Sec., Scott Chambers, d 6 Pitt Street, Sydney.
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used.
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Jgif” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious.
'O
AS
%
7^
£>
8
sdf
EggEjfgi
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OP SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
|3F~ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
-THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
jflLxid. Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms: 81 Bathurst Street. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A
sd
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s, to 15s. fid. per pair for a short-time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-VAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street—Send RO.O. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
sel J~ confidence ”
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
-palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most, minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the bist means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,'
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
b.is
Qnalifioa-
\ tions,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send tor
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
trim to undertake t e treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat'd of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving- hainCcan.he overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patimts with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the nody. He supplies a Genuine
Electkic B :lt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address :
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN.
k
$
3?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT
V
Nr-
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened partSrfestoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst ease permanently cuied in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
o
-S-
-c
o
<5.
o
fs
-p
o
Cl
o
-p
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank hag Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


Presorlptloua
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
s. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■VTOTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
I U HbI)AY»
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Whls&y,
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS AWARDED AT INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
‘o'j's ‘tsoi x«a
Telephone 91?,
&
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Hooxua s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUENE.
IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
ERNEST FAVEUC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Put Street, Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tbe Brighton of Jfew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated" Dining
bitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
KXLMIKTSTER °~~ Proprietress.
Look out for “The Last of Six.”
A
4.
o
o
o
X
<RAcitA^ocK>
*
9
D
o
o
o
o
4
V
K. A, Hervey, Agent, 144 €larcuce-&l, Sydney.
///
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party ; “W h y didn't you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothinsr else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Mill.
•sy.
Knowles’ rumps.
PARKE & LACY CO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
(LIMITED),
&c., &0«| &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYIDIXriHI'Sr, KT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
Kook Breakers.
Westlnglionse Engines.
foils
53
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
>Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes.
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street ■"«*Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
SHOW!
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
ill
: =
