

o
y*.
co
4*.
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
B. GK WATKINS «SC- CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
ivriTi<n g and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
dfg
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
r 4>
So
o
o
o
«ocK^
*
o
o
o
■fo
o
V
<
R. A. Hervey, Agent, 28 Sydney.
Free
Are to be found in the ami Lil'e,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
s. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7(3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
OTICE. —Advertisements f<
. v cannot be received LATE
TUESDAY.
for Current Week
R than 1 p.m. on
f - m ■
'^s
r'Z
08-S
o*L
fH£
■-n
roftE
tH£
till
m
*mn«UJIIIWJ'«nS
The Oxford Hotel, Hltig street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
•—THE-^
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
*OR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest. Crystal.
“Golden Star" Cis.unery, Regel.
Colonial, English., N'.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From toe famed Farms of the Colony
The most Ext|u:site.
S*T' The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWIC E
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and Sl'BL'KBS.
The splendid railway facilities c fleretl by tlie Railway
Commissioners enable us lo FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE. BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
II. P VTKSOS,
1st July, 1893. Manager.
MILK
CREAM ..
IIE
IH TTF.tt
IISII
CiAMU ..
1*01 I.TItY
PASTK1, Ar.
araoe: xosccyjc
■an ujosih“lisiHjTs.siJiM
Solo
Agents
JSTemr smith "Wales ±or Messrs.
OJLexyfcoxx
9*
and Slinttlewortli.
wr>
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, winnowers, rakes,
Harvesters, reapers.
'Tmsi i>
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENOINB.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
91
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built ftrsuit the requirements of N.S.W,
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
f w..
~i? T® ' iWfiK'S~ i«*
SS&
SSSS
HOWARD'S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., etc.
LECTRIC lighting engines, winding engines, traction engines.
Sz
Howard,
sssr
13 O 2
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 13.—N0. ,06. j
[Saturday, August 26, 1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton, of New South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
Mrs, SlIX.nXI]SrST£!£l ... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
df
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
66
6 Leger v Tobacco.
Leger” Tobacco.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
LEGER
99
£5O
I3X'V r XX3^333
£5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER, 1893.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS!
Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893-
DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING !
“ LEGER ” has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To nnrk their appreciation of the startling success of the “ LEGER,” tiie manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to Inoiease the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O
£5O
£5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows :
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER paper tasrs or labels
from the pittas during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS ...
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS
Forthe Fourtli Highest Quantity , FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS
10
Competition closes December 17, 1893. Tickets must, be sent in not later than Derember 21,1893.
Competitors in -Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in i I e'r Tags se( ur ly packs 1 and seabd, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23, 1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public mat be present to see the eont-nts counted.
We ask all smokers to li t this new BrandLEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever off'red. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, but of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. 3d. and often
Is. 6d. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for the
“ Leger
71
Tobacco—Price, Is. per Block.
Xieger
has caught on!
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christinas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week's-supply 25 percent, cheaper.
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses j*» the successful competitors. U
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“THE LAST OF SIX.”
Price
One Shilling*,
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
K3T apply for
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED PR EE BY
Dr. M. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth -St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
iw~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
TTOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
S I There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of I hea n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fattest directions arc supplied for their use
In every disease, IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxfokd-st., London. '»* Pur-
chasers should look to the Labi 1 on the Boxes and Pots.
H the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious
a
ows
EMBROCATION
df
%
hip
imoi
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS ANT) INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we Have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., <fec., Public Analysts.
DR RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
rpALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
USE
BA KI HI?
O W D ER
%
9
m
m
m,
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ’
He : “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He : “All ! Dem that make me love.”
ri-'HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
a Sydney Branches :
(54 PITT STREET, and 538 GEOROE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
i hroughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
“ Men I have Smiled with.’
T E STAY at Bruton’s,
NHnaTnOD
BOURKE. Every Comfort at RALPH'S
“ UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPiUETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
Gs. per DAY. TERMS ; 30s. per WEEK.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Pert tune. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRWGIPAKBE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPH AKOTIS
JBGKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, Lond<
CAUT!Of* !-omr Pennine with shield-
snape blue ami yellow label ami usual
Trane Mark-a “ White Hose”
and address in lull.
MANHOO X>.
HEALTH, STRENGTH and vigor restored
In Four Weeks by. the use of
O s RECORD’S
Ft-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important dements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on, receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry ,f: Co., IS Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
To Newsagents, etc.
TASMA.KTIA
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
Medical,
ROSES
$
Wul77j
H
ft
o!s
|>£
LOT*
IBS
KS.T
tPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INKLAMEI > EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OK SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Ditpc-rsirg and Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and ail Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT anc
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC. -A-. IFLOS33.
NERVOUS MEN.
(u
«
S'
m
M
EUREKA
aS
ELECTRIC
BELTrt 1
r
; ■■
fl
vi
\\
A NEVES, FAILING- CURE EOS ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory' Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the,Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 dLays trial,
and accept payment after they have proved then
selves what «e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorousstrength,
even the worst case permanently ctlied in three months.
It is more convenient to wi at- than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 9U>, G.P.0., Sydney.
IMi
mm
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
<*)
PATENT
PILLS.
Li
*
45
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dixzhiess. and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, smirvy, blotches
on tiie skin, disturbed
steep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Ev erv
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Fills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. It taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
rt’holc muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beech am *s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bron hial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, See., these Bills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
md difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bhrcuam's Cot'OU
I’u.ls a trial and the most violent Cough will in »
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Betchara, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
ivery where.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


Medical.
3
112 PHILLIP ST SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered- by the Medical
Board of,N‘<sw South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of-“ Lectures on the Microscope,’'’-and Tfeati'ses
on “Consumptipn,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary .Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Hallway Medical Officer,
■ Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This' eminent Specialist (whose experience of
2/3 Years’ continuous practise enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every aecepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision ®f iris popular work o»
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints 'to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, yeti should not fail to send for a
copy for fhe invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
fo’ms in the first letter. To enable them to do
thisT append-a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of-Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sgilow• Complexion, Restlessness at Nig-ht, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxjety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, taels- of Mental,
CapaQty, Sluggish Li ver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles,'Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory. Bad Taste in the
Moutk, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough,-Expectoration, Sleepine s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Shored S»nd
ONE’ POUND
with first letter, and describe .all symptoms. This
Fee includes' Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
fofTmvous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J, Vintis will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his wonld-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which vs
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
AppJ-mnces, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to „
TEST THEM FREE,
or w'ear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so wfdely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feeljio hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, yon may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upan Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness,'should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
anij Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs t aiisiiUallon :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—0.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—o.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 0 p.m. v
t
(taT Address all Cuumui’hications :
Dr. J ECK EI JL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
I’LEASH QUOTH THIS I’AI'KK WHEN WRITING
Medical.
OrJichards
34 COLLETS STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and'flegistered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
I
mmm
i
1
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably,
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived lifs medical Education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe,
He has devoted a Ufa- time to the Study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods hy which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he hqs during his practice, extending
over FORTY YE-ARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Hia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsinpss'during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels,,’spenks before'the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
aboutTto happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure bloed, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general wholeness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send (3d. in stamp's to the above
address, and you will,' by return of post, receiv®
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the-above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, And even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on reeeipt of
sush a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case; If you do nob think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under ajiy circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated neagly SO,OOO cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, atr
least, 15,000 persons to show thpir written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed
Dr. Richards
GOLLUGB 811111171, SVDMIY.
lie sure to mention this paper when writing,
CONSULTATION FiILE.
Hotel.
m
■
'min
“ she (Sydney Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, I'.MV., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
rw 'V<a. PATHS &o.
Ol^CKiniTli.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain tfnd
Botanical Gardens,
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150tt. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Itadies’ Tea Booms.
JHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one cf the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It v.i'l also be a great boon to Business
Men in l he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, embined
with a little of ti e cup that cheers without inebriating.
df
Medical.
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following aro constantly arriving
from all parts oj the-woy.d and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed bv Dr. Pierces
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
BELT. Read the letters:
From Australia.
Mr. W. 11. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W„ writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul Sz (Jo., (Agents for Dr,
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses). 158 Pitt St.,
Sydn,ey: S rs: —l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
(lie statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
the belt as soon as it is placed on his lr. dy. for I frit the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and belieye me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St.. Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can saythatl have felt better, agreat
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not fake any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _ .
From America.
Mr. J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back; also, which came on through a fall mtoq
ship’s hold some ten years ago. X fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I gotupasifnothinghad happened, the back
t rumbled me eversince until I tried your belt. For one year
nenu I have felt as I used to at 20."
B3“Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts,
Call, or write for free descriptive “Pamphlet No. 2, ’ and
please mention this paper when you address: W. H. Soul ‘V Co.,
138 Pitt St.. Sydney; Elliott Bros., Brisbane; or, thq
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San Francisco, U. S. A,
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
(suffering: from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars,.including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST. Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
3XT o Cur e, INTo Fay.
rrms is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
1 cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. 'We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, .we prefer that you should
call and examine (hem, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
- w
GALVANIC suspemsq
electro
Rv
b elt
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. CK ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOIJK STliUl'/r, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Ilall)j
Country Orders by poet .from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
rjIALES or THE SYSTEM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
E
Shipping.
NGLAND VljT~ AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Rod Sea and
the cold df Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
Tiie steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng
land:—
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and ,£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
l ( or time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply rft the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS,
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE; ALBANY, MADE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Dates of Departure.
Steamer Commander Sydney [Melbourne ' Adelaide
1 Noon j 1 p.m, j Ip.m.
AUSTHALIEN G, Didier Aug. 26 Aug. 31 Sept. 2
VAeIaCIOTAT Fiaschi .. Sept. 270 ct, I Oct. 3
POLYNESIAN L. Boulard 0,.t, 27|Nov. 1 Nov. 3
I I
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Kates of passage to London, FIBST SALOON: £66 to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETUHN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
DEDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOABD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
I lie passengers-for Loi don and give them every assisti nje
in landing and passing their Ing-gage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to'Paris and Calais.
jVß.—Passengers' luggage conveyed fipj of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company's Office,
15 Macejiiarie-placc, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
SCM-'.HT-
*
V.O.
CROMARTY
WHISKY,
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRA LIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
o H *
FOR
MOUSTAOH Ell
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Fellow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CRAMS A AITKFN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
r
£ **,
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comforlablc ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
(is« «v «.s* tSoorge Street, Sydney.
IST” NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


BUSffiE
■v
Sim& eST
o&SBST
©6WINS
machine
W9RH3
Before purchasing any other
semd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
JMohnston&Co-
&
BOM
i¥:
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket). SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
SHAVING MACHINE.
These Machines or Razors, 8/6 each, post free. Please see that
the name “ W. Jno. Baker, Sydney,” is on each Box.
Illustrated Booklet, showing accompanying Machine fitted
handsome cases for presentation, forwarded post free on
application.
TV, Jno, Baker , C TITLEB,
3 lIIM'KU STREET, SYDNEY.
Shaving
Machine.
gdf
Bs. 6d.
•ST FREE throughout
the World.
NEWTON & LAMB,
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS OF OFFICE FURNITURE.
LIBRARY & OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. HAT STANDS.
ENCLOSED WASHSTANDS. COPYING PRESSES, ETC.
- •-
PALL FRONT PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAK,
WALNUT, etc. PLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS & STOOLS.
The “Commercial” sft. lioll Top Desk.
THE LARGEST AND MOST VARIED STOCK IN AUSTRALIA.
BOARD ROOMS & OFFICES FITTED UP. DESIGNS & ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Xiimited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALAVAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
US' Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
• Plum ’
InJTPI
THE
‘Plum’
ffIHTS brand of Razor is something superior to anything tliat has ever been offered to the public.
■ Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try tins particular brand.
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Re qi Sieved and sent Pod Free to any of the Australian colonics , Queensland and Tasmania , Is. extra
Sole
ARonts ;
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
A DAY’S DENIAL.
A LIFE’S REST.
YOU MAY ACHIEVE THIS BY THE INVESTMENT OF
55., lOa., or 20s.
r-p-pg —p-i -
MUTUAL FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION SOCIETY OE SYDNEY
145,000 SHARES at £1 each; also, HALF-SHARES at 10s.; QUARTER-SHARES at ss.
(With no Further Liability.)
34:41 Prizes! 3441 Frizes!
A ll SYDNEY * SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
(No INACCESSIBLE BACK-BLOCKS or FLOOD DESOLATED ALLOTMENTS), and largely rent-producing,
Hanging In value from £35,000 to £5.
ARE ISSUING
FIRST
PRIZE,
df
dfg
Value,
5§35,000.
Those magnificent Offices and Banking Chambers, Park and Castlereagh Streets, occupied by the City Bank and the
Mercantile Building Land and Investment Company, Limited, having an annual rental value of £1750.
14 Chances for each WHOLE, HALF or QUARTER Share.
NOTE.—To facilitate the investment of small sums, and to enable
those who might otherwise he debarred to participate in the benefits
of this distribution, arrangements have been made for the sale of
Half-Shares at 10s., and Quarter-Shares at 55,, for which certificates
will be issued.
Apply Personally, or by Letter with Cash, Money Order, Stamps or Cheque (ineluding exchange),
and Two Stamped Envelopes for reply and result.
Bankers: CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
ALL MONEYS BANKED TO A TRUST ACCOUNT,
INTO. X mSTRIBTJTIONr FTT.T.TTVTn- RAPIDLY
Early Application is requisite to secure allotment.
For Shares, Prospectuses, and full particulars, apply to MANAGER, c/o R. Hope Atkinson.
J.P., 24 and 25 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.
A.PFLICA.TION FORM.
To Manager,
(Mutual freehold property distribution (Society of Sydney.
O/o R. HOPE ATKINSON, J.P., 24 and 25 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY.
Please send me Share , for which I enclose two
stamped addressed envelopes for share and result and hy
#
Name
Address
Date
* State whether Cash, P. 0.0., Postal Note, or Cheque. If by Cheque, include exchange.
Teeth.-a complete set, one
GUINEA.-THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-street.—Single Tooth, 2/6;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:—
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes:-“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE
98 KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st.
m
BarrysTricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ano SKIM.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald'
ness, gray hair, ami dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and snralna
Genuine has trade-mark Hare lay* to., blew York.
dfg
ft*
Krr-
trade mark
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
£3T The only thorough!)
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS
A'lD
INFLUENZA.
# ■ J
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
N. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Jity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st
Wholesale el Elliott .Brothers, Limited
dfg
CLOTHED WITH AIK
Cellular Cloth
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs.
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortably and
Durab'e.
A positive Safeguard
njfainst Chills.
When scudiuyr Orders by
Po<t, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pro*
pay carriage. , }
Sole Aifents—
BEAHAM Sc MUTCH,
75 Ki.No Hr., syoNEV.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Pad Office, Sydney, for transmission hy pod as a Newspaper.
tfol. 13—Ko. *706.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 26, 1898.
Price, 6d,
gdf
jsai o
=Signs
o*o^
*S4&'
B»L
CJ ,
THE NEW N.S.W DEMOCRATIC PARTY—TWO WOULD-BE LEADERS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... ... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
(shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not ivish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to AVilliam Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald,
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Talcs or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed.
But ice desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at. the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also is tub Transvaal-: — The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown. South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S, Wales in future will be £l, icilh 3s. 3d.
added fur postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd,
♦
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this oflioe,
SATURDAY. AUGUST 26, 1893.
The Mercantile Bank Leprosy.
For something over a year past the begin-
ning, middle, and end of Victorian politics
have been Matthew Davies. The unspeak-
ably dreary question Avhether that one
essentially commonplace attorney should or
should not be called upon to clearly explain
how his sixteen banks (or thereabouts) went
to utter bankruptcy, Avhile showing by their
balance-sheets that they Avere entu-ely sol-
vent, has already wrecked one Government,
and has disrupted another which will almost
certainly be Avrecked also at a very early
date. It has ruined the political reputations
—or what remained of them —of Patterson,
O’Loohlen, and Graham Berry ; and it
only missed utterly ruining that of Shiels
because he changed sides at the eleventh
hour, and of Speaker Bent because he had
no political reputation which could be made
any worse by any ruin that could come upon
it. It has been suppressed over and over
again in Parliament, Avhere any attempt to
allude to it is, wherever possible, ruled
“ out of order” ; it has kept the nation in a
ferment, and has brought Justice into utter
disgrace. No one Avould ever have known,
but for the existence of Davies, how entirely
the Fat Man owns the Law, the Legislature,'
the Press, and that impalpable thing com-
monly described as the “Crown,” in Vic-
toria. The impossibility of bringing him to
trial, and thereby furnishing him with that
allegedly much-desired fair opportunity of
demonstrating his iimrcen e, is a proof
of such utter and universal rottenness
as no one ever su p ido l before. And
this is taking no. account of all the other
impt sabilities Avliich AV.mld assuredly crop
up if he Avere brought to trial, and of
the final impossibility which would have to
be recl.oued with after the t id if, by any
unprecedented circumstance, his innocence
Avere not proved to the satisfaction of the
ccurt and jury.
No one can remember now how many
months or how many urgent representations
Avere required before the Shiels Cabinet
even began to remotely consider the possi-
bility of making a preliminary inquiry into
the doings of the smellful Mercantile Bank.
The capitalistic press—and there is hardly
any other in existence in Victoria—frantic-
ally blasphemed at everybody Avho even
hinted a suspicion that that glaringly dis-
honest institution was not entirely spotless.
The individual Avho “objected” or asked
awkward questions at meetings of the bank’s
creditors Avas howled down and suppressed
and ruled “out of order,” and the accountant
avlio reported on the bank’s disorganised
finances was threatened by the “respect-
able ” papers with avalanches of libel writs,
and threatened, verbally, with personal
violence. But despite all these things, and
despite Davies’ ex-co-director in the Cabinet,
and his vacillating supporter who held the
Premiership, and his bull-dog “ pal ” who
occupied the Speaker’s chair, it Avas found
necessary at last to make some attempt, or
some sUoav of an attempt, at an enquiry.
Therefore the directors and the manager
of the putrefied Mercantile Bank appeared
at the police-court—where they were not
put in the dock and were alluded to gently
as the “defendants”—and all of them,
except Davies and the aforesaid manager,
were promptly and enthusiastically dis-
charged. The two latter would have been
discharged also, save for the action of one
recalcitrant magistrate, in a bench of twenty
or thereabouts, who committed them for
trial on his own responsibility, amid the
execrations of the aggregate Fat Man of the
province. The death of that magistrate,
which occurred shortly afterwards, was set
down by the Fat Man as a judgment.
# # #
Then Davies’ friend, Attorney-General
O’Loghlen, promptly discontinued all
proceedings, and Solicitor-General Isaacs,
who objected to this unaccountable collapse,
was expelled fiom the Cabinet for so doing.
Here the case would have come to an end,
save for the action of a private creditor, who
obtained from the Supreme Court an order
for a Grand Jury, and started the weary
proceedings afresh. The principal “ defen-
dant,” by this time, Avas on his way to
Colombo—a warrant having been sent after
him when, owing to various judicious delays,
it was just too late ; but he Avas brought
back—or rather a detective was sent after
him to ask him, in an appealing tone of
voice, to come back “ voluntarily,” which he
did. He was not arrested on his return,
despite the existence of a Avarrant against
him, but he called in upon the authorities
per medium of his Lawyer, and promised to
come round in a friendly Avay and be tried.
But, like everything else, die trial fell
through. An alien, avlio it Avas known Avhen
he entered the box was an alien, had been
put on the Grand Jury which found the true
bill against the accused, and the Chief Jus-
tice, despite the objections advanced by two
of his colleagues, held that that alien’s pres-
ence invalidated and utterly Avrecked the
proceedings. Also, it was further decided
by high legal authorities that, Avhile the
presence of an alien on a Grand Jury in-
validated the proceedings, there was no legal
process whatever by which an alien, if once
summoned by the police, could be kept off
the Grand Jury. Which decision Avas calcu-
lated to servo as a solemn warning to any
other prosecutor avlio might want to set a
Grand Jury ill motion, by showing him that
ho was entirely at the mercy of the ignorant
or elaborately misguided policeman by whom
the jurors were summoned, and that the
chances against that body producing any
good results were illimitable.
* • «
As an additional warning to anybody who
might take further proceedings, the Govern-
ment, despite a vague, though general, under-
standing that the prosecutor’s “reasonable
costs ” would be paid by the State, disallowed
nearly two-thirds of those costs, thus leaving
him the loser of over £l2OO by his abortive
experiment in the public interest. Also,
apparently to emphasise the warning, it was
announced that the Law Department would
take no further proceedings upon any
account Avhatsoever, a statement Avhich
practically implied that any future prose-
cutor must pay his own costs amount-
ing probably to many thousands—in full.
Considering that, up to date, the Law
Department had taken hardly any pro-
ceedings except in the direction of quashing
the indictment, this declaration that it would
not take any more proceedings seems in-
congruous and altogether superfluous. It Avas
about this time that an attempt by ex-
Premier Shiels to allude to the case in
Parliament nearly led to the shedding of
blood by the great Conservative party, and
an attempt to comment upon the matter by
a private member was suppressed, the said
member being howled down by the sten-
torian voice of Speaker Bent. Also, it Avas
about this time that the capitalistic press
began to speak regretfully of Matthew
Davies, on the ground that he had been
wrongfully deprived of an opportunity of
“demonstratinghis innocence,”and Premier
Patterson denounced Davies’ critics as
“harpies clamouring for a prosecution.” But
even yet the public was not prepared to let the
matter drop, and a private prosecutor again
took the matter up and appealed to Magis-
trate Panton —the same Panton who so
emphatically endeavoured to dismiss the
case on a previous occasion—for summonses
on a fresh charge. And here a new and
unlooked-for obstacle presented itself, for
the fount of justice shut up altogether, and
entirely refused to flow.
» » •
According, we believe, to all law and
precedent, a magistrate is always required to
issue a summons upon the information of
any reputable complainant, clothed and ap-
parently in his right mind, and after the
document is issued, the responsibility of
proving the case rests entirely on the
complainant himself. But Panton flatly
declined to issue any summons Avhatever,
and still another attempt to afford Davies
and his colleagues of the Mercantile Bank a
chance of demonstrating their entire inno-
cence fell through. Mr. Panton’s reasons
for this course were not based on any ques-
tion of law, but Avere built after this wildly
grotesque pattern:
I have to consider that these people have been harassed,
and the country has been put to much expense.
The irrelevancy of the second excuse lies
principally in the fact that the ne\v pro-
ceedings would have been conducted
entirely at the cost of the private prose-
cutor, and, therefore, the expense to
which the country had been put on other
occasions had no more to do with the matter
than the cost of pursuing the Kelly gang.
And as to the assertion that the principal
defendant had been harassed, so is every
accused person on whom the law lays its
hands. The Kelly gang was harassed for
something like two years before it came to
an end, yet the survivor was hanged all the
same. Deeming was harassed through a
whole series of law courts, and strangled
at the conclusion without the slightest
consideration for his previous anxieties
and his recent bereaA 7 ement. And, more-
over, the harassment of Matthew Davies
lies only in the fact that the magis-
tracy tried to block the proceedings against
him in the first instance, that Attorney-
General O’Loghlen stopped them in the
second, that Chief Justice Madden quashed
them later on, and that Magistrate Panton
was engaged at that very moment in block-
ing them once more. Out of four acquittals,
or attempted acquittals, without trial,
Panton is responsible'for two, and if the
harassing of a defendant is an offence, then
Panton himself has committed more of it.
than anybody else.
# # *
Up to date nearly fifteen months have
been spent in vain efforts to bring Matthew
Davies to a trial—-a thing which the poor or
uninfluential suspect generally gets to inside
of thirty days without the slightest difficulty.
The latest charge against him was that of
issuing a false balance-sheet, and the mere
fact that the Mercantile balance-sheet repre-
sented it to be solvent and flourishing only a
month or so before it Avenfc bankrupt with an
£BOO,OOO deficiency, is sufficient proof that
the document was false, whoever issued it.
Meamvhile, things remain very much as they
Avqre at the beginning, and as nearly every
“representative man ” in Victoria was a land
or bank boomer in the days of inflation, and
no boomer’s balance-sheet could bear too
close examination, and the legal inspection
of one might let loose the horrors of investi-
gation on all the rest, they are likely to
remain so indefinitely. The only remedy
for the Mercantile Bank leprosy seems to
be revolution.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Fat Man and the Lash.
And here is the S.M. Herald Avith the ink of
the old lag-time journalism still running in its
press :
The arrest of the whip the other day, in Darlinghurst
Oaol, reflects the utmost credit on the humanity of
feeling which shrinks from seeing pain inflicted on a
fellow-creature ; but for the matter of that punishment
of any kind is extremely objectionable, more particularly
to the victim of it, and if it could be in every case avoided
it would he well. . . . The offence for which this
arrested whipping had been imposed was a sudden ebul-
lition of ungovernable passion, and it showed the existence
of a lawlessness of spirit that laughs at law. If it is
deemed wise that incipient lawlessness should be checked
by the only means which seems capable of touching the
feelings of the young tigers of society who are in training
for a life of crime, it seems hardly in keeping that, unless
in circumstances of stern necessity, a power should inter-
vene to arrest the hand of the law in imposing its penal-
ties. It is prudent that'medical officers should be present
to see that the punishment stayed at the point beyond
which tt might be perilous to life, hut the idea of 10 or 15
strokes of a whip causing such danger to a strong man is
unreasonable, and its unreason was borne out by results.
“ The results ” in question being that the boy
—aged 17 —though he collapsed at the triangles,
didn’t die as he easily might have done—for he
had been on a bread-and-Avater diet and was
physically in no state to bear the brutal punish-
ment awarded by an angry magistrate whoso
dignity be had affronted. The gaol-surgeon, a
man of much hospital experience, avlio has, no
doubt, seen men die in a hundred unexpected
ways, probably knows his business better than
the smug and ignorant savage whom the
Pharisaical organ of commercialism lets loose in
its saintly columns.
# # #
While The Bulletin is above ground it will
never cease to denounce the lash as a cowardly
weapon of the canting classes so fitly repre-
sented by the S.M. Herald. One thing only is
needed to abolish the lash for ever as an instru-
ment of the law. It is to bring about the
flogging of some “ well-connected ” young
man. One of these days, after men of no
account have been stripped of their Avorkmeu’s
garb and cold-bloodedly flayed in prison, amid
the loud applause of the “right-thinking”
classes, there will come a morning when some
wild youth, born of a silk-attired mother
and begotten by a father avlio goes
abroad to prey in a long silk hat and
a double-breasted frock coat, shall be
brought, for a floggnble offence, before a
couple of Demo ratio Js.P. who will send him
to be tied up and skinned alive, even as the
offending labourer of a day before has been
skinned by order of the sort of magistrate
entrusted with the suppression of labour-strikes.
“ Whish !” says the cat as it tears his back—
and cuts into the soul of his loving and cor-
rectly-dressed mother. “ Whish !” says the
cat as it rips his skin and makes raspberry-
marks on the very souls of his beautiful,
fashionable, accomplished, scented sisters.
“ Oh !” says the father of the young man with the
silver-mounted shepherd’s-crook stick and tan
boots, as he wipes from his brow cold sweat,
while the blood of that son is being extracted
by the Government man-butcher and cuticle is
being scattered all over the gaol-yard to make a
“ special edition ” for the brutal evening press !
Dear public, you can’t imagine such things.
And because you can’t even imagine them, The
Bulletin says, and ever will say, that the Lash
is always held in the hands of the Fat Man and
never descends save upon the back of the mar
whose class is Lean.
“Pnshism” Exploded.
In a few plain words, stripped of all penny-a-
line sensationalism, and cleansed of newspaper
hogwash, Justice Stephen (N.S.W.) has given
the naked history of the clumsy row that has
been variously boomed by the Sydney daily
press as “ the Miller’s Point murder,” “ out-
rage,” or “tragedy.” A common-sense jury
had already found that the two principals in
the homicide had not been guilty of “ murder,”
and a common - sense" Judge has now set
at liberty, on their own recognisances, the
half-dozen other young men who had been
pilloried as “murderers.” Some of Judge
Stephen’s remarks are worthy of embalmment
as an accusing record against the bloodthirsty
spasms of a press that creates its own bogies
and calls upon unstrung citizens to die of fear-
shock. His Honor had studied the notes taken
during the trial by Judge Innes, with this
result:
Before I became thoroughly conversant with all the
details of the case, I had a vague idea that it was one in
which a band of young ruffians, known as larrikins or
pushes, associated together for the purpose of committing
deeds of violence, had deliberately attacked the deceased
man Pert, and kicked him to death.
His Honor’s mistake was natural. That was
the police and penny-a-liner’s argument; that
was the shriek of the “ right-minded person ”
to whom the daily press threw open its
columnar vacuity ; that was the terror-moved
bawl of the fleshy, broad-clothed night-prowler
who prayed for the Bloody Cat and called for
police revolvers. Special chances educated his
Honor out of his mistake :
When I came to study the Judge’s notes of the case, it
was shorn of a great deal of its brutal character. Those
notes showed that Pert, a man of good physique, was
standing one Sunday morning in the street, when he was
attacked by Dooiian, with whom he had a fight.
Doohan, by the way, was, during the trial,
described by Judge Innes as a “miserable
little fellow, somewhat handicapped by drink.”
Doohan was twice knocked down, and Pert was rushed
by a number of young men and kicked I can
quite understand the feelings of resentment that, would
rise in the breasts of the young men on seeing Doohan's
blood-stained face, &c., &c.
By argument his Honor clearly found that there
Avas no preconcerted plan of ferocity—no sava-
gery of “ pushism,” no rampant reign of terror,
no truth at all in the blood-curdling inventions
of the daily press (one of Avhich was that Pert
Avas “ kicked until his entrails protruded.”)
If it bad not ended fatally, there would have been very
little more than a police-court proceeding in the mat ter.
Yet the gore-craving press demanded a special
abattoirs, clamoured for a gallows for eight,
fiercely importuned (in the name of Justice !)
for Blood ! It is still sullenly morose, even
though one man has gone to gaol for ten years
and another for five, and it is quite plain to all,
save those Avho distinctly decline to see, that
Pert died from a fall and not from a kick.
There could be no disorder in the back streets
of Sydney if the police enforced the letter of
the law regularly and stolidly instead of occa-
sionally and hysterically.
■*
The Brand of “ Good Society.”
Mary Gaunt, in an article on Melb.
Women’s Hospital —the lying-in refuge of
local “ pauperdom ” —presses,a rough linger on
a hideous ulcer in the painted flesh of fashion-
able “Christianity.” Speaking of the legiti-
mate and illegitimate mothers—
It is all entered in a book, all written up on a card over
their beds, so that eA'eryone that passes may read. “M.”
or "S.” There is no mistaking the meaning of the letter,
no hiding their shame here. . . . The lady of the
committee who is showing me over the hospital sits down
and touches the baby gently. Then site looks up at the
card over the bed.
“ The lady of the committee !” “Christian”
brutality knows no limit. Not only does the
scented and bejewelled hagdom of “ good
society ” brand each poor devil of a girl, but
it glories in advertising her brands in the very
place Avhere the common qualifications of
destitution and maternity should level all.
“M. or S.”—-Married or Single—that is not
Avhat is meant, but “ B. or L.” —Bastard or
Legitimate, Why do not the fashionable
women by whom this torture-chamber is chiefly
controlled, hang around the neck of each quali-
fied baby a card with the faithful legend-
“ Bastard !”
But honoured well are charms to sell,
If priests the selling do.
The fiat of hag-society that insists on adver-
tising the fall of lovelier, less-guarded and more
credulous womanhood, is almost solely respon-
sible for the tragedies connected with baby-
farming, and for the bountiful supply of baby-
chokers always to be found in open market by
the diligent seeker. Thus the society-revered
S.M. Herald:—
It is to avoid the exposure of shame (hat infants are
smothered away, and the more vigilant we are in drag-
ging every case of shame into the public light, the more
determined will he the efforts to tty from that publicity.
If the child of shame cannot be hidden, the mother will
hide herself and it together. . . . The stern morality
which insists that it is right that one should always bring
shame is the best handmaid to suicide or murder.
The Melbourne Women’s Hospital authorities
stand iuferentially accused, by one of their own
class “organs,” of being patronesses of, and
aiders and abettors in, “Herod Makinism.”
The legend of the institution should read—■
“ This Way to the .Streets.”


Makin as a Poet.
Hurod Makin, baby-farmer, hanged last week
- a fc Sydney in connection with the murder of a
.dozen or more infants, wrote a farewell letter
ito his wife, in Avhich he expressed a hope that
.her future life, whether long or short, would be
such as to ensure her meeting him in Heaven.
But it was not an ordinary prose letter. In
.point of fact, Makin dropped into poetry and
sent a copy to The Bulletin :
“ Self-evident Facts.”
“ Self-evident facts ” are mostly lies. The
Unionist fanatics of Ulster have so long travelled
on the loud assertion that Ulster is the richest
and most progressive province of Ireland, that
Belfast is one of the most enterprising and pros-
perous citiesof the empire, andthattheirprovince
in general presents a marked contrast to the
degradation and backwardness of its three
priest-ridden neighbours, that the statement
has come to be accepted almost without ques-
tion. Here are some Irish-census figures
from the Contemporary Review. The
population of Ulster has declined 766,000
(32 per cent.) in the last 50 3'ears, therefore that
prosperous province is crumbling away about as
fast as the rest of the country. Except Belfast,
every town in Ulster is decreasing, and even
that “great seaport,” counting exports and
imports together, only ranks 22nd among
British ports. In point of wealth, as per
income-tax returns, Ulster is the poorest of the
Irish provinces, except Goo-forsaken Con-
naught, and its wealth per head is only
a fraction more than half" that of Leinster.
It is, again with the exception of Con-
naught, the most illiterate province in - Ire-
land, the number of people who can read
and write being 4 per cent, less than in Leinster
and 1 per cent, less than in Munster. In house
accommodation Ulster comes third among the
four provinces, Connaught being the nly one
which has a larger percentage of mud cabins
than the “ prosperous ” North. The percentage
of small farms—the Irish “ small farm ’’being a
patch of hungry hill or bog which, with its attached
hovel, is valued at less than £l5 annual rental
—is greater in Ulster than in any other Irish
province, Connaught, as usual, being excepted.
I’lie bo'asted city of Belfast pays just about half
ns much in income-tax as Dublin. Belfast, as
on exporting city, in ’9l ranked 41st among
British seaports, just ahead of the frozen,
weather-beaten, wind-racked fishing village of
Wick in the furthest north of Scotland. Ulster
is half Protestant and half Catholic ; in this
Parliament it returns a small majority of
Unionists ; in the last it returned a small
majority of Home Rulers. Even the crumbling,
dead-and-alive city of Derry returned a Home
Ruler in the last Parliament. Ulstpr is a poor
proof of the blessings of Unionism.
♦
The famous Midland Railway (Maoriland) turns
up now and then as a commentary on the
advantages of private enterprise and the
benefits of the land-grant system. A good
many years ago, Premier Stout and his col-
league, Julius Vogel, made a bargain with an
English syndicate, whereby the latter was to
biuhl a railway across Canterbury to the West
Boast, and receive 2,000,000 acres of land for
doing it. That is to say, the Co. was to get the
land for building its own railway, andas the land
would sell for almost enough to build the line
the anticipated result was that the State would
pay for the railway, as is usual in such cases,
while the syndicate would own it. Then the
rouble began. The Stout-Vogel Government
rollapsed, and the Atkinson Cabinet which
aiose in its stead didn't look kindly on the
Midland Railway Co. The Co. presently de-
manded that the land-grant, or a great part of
d, should be handed over in advance, but the
lovcrnvnent flatly declined, and insisted on
adhering to the letter of the agreement. Then
ie syndicate requested Government to guaran-
-00 the interest on certain loans which it wanted
-piraise for construction purposes, but again the
7'J )lue f wasn’t “on.” Next it demanded to be
jeloascd from the agreement to build certain
Ranch lines, and here also the Cabinet re-
.ed to comply. After that, it sub-
mitted proposals for selling back to the
Stdite, at an exorbitant figure, the same con-
cession which the State originally gafe to
it for nothing, and then graciously allowing the
State l to build its own line at its owii expense,
but this offer was also declined. Now, the
Midland has practically shut up, leaving sundry
patches of neglected rails here and there to
mark the scene of its labours, and it spends all
its time in submitting new proposals 'to the
Government for the sale of its concession at
absurd figures, or for the floating of its deben-
tures under a State guarantee, and in howling
dismally in the English press about the manner
in which its rights have been “confiscated,”
and weeping on the doorstep of various Govern-
ment offices and making lugubrious sounds of
woe through the keyhole. No one knows
exactly how things will end, but meanwhile the
Midland remains as a bright example of British
enterprise in Maoriland. It exists, apparently,
only for the purpose of grabbing its land-grant,
and the idea of building the line in return for
its grant seems never to have entered into its
calculations from the first.
Premier M‘lnwraith (Q.) has more than once
announced his antagonism to a land-tax in this
form : “ What is the use of taxing land when
four-fifths of it is the property of the Crown ?
I irst of all, sell the land, and then'talk about
taxing it.” The M'llwraith Government is
now proceeding whole-hoggedly to carry out
the first part of Mac. ’s programme. Special
sales are to be held at ss. an acre, instead of
105..; grazing farms are to be converted into
unconditional selectionsone-man land-boards
are to be appointed (this should make oracle-
working easy), and Crown lands ” ate to be
“exchanged for freeholds.” Which “free-
holds,” having become “Crown lands,” may,
under sufficiently presumptuous administration,
become available at ss. an acre ? After the
MTlwraith gang ,(if it lasts long enough) has
parted with the people’s inheritance, it may
commence to “talk about” taxing land? No
fear. There won’t be a whisper in that direc-
tion. Tiie clan’s energies will then be centred
on founding a feudal landocracy, with a brand-
new law of entail, till the brass plate of the
syndicate shall hide the bruised heart of the
nation.
Thus a vigorous correspondent;—
Dear Bulletin, —Providence, after all, seems to be in
favour of the dreary Old World: What do you think of
this physical fact—ln the Southern Hemisphere, most of
which is covered with ocean, there is much more evapora-
tion than in the Northern Hemisphere, but a large part
of the vapour found in our half is blowm across the
Equator by the winds of heaven, there to be discharged
in rain ; this, of course, works both ways, but the balance
is always in favour of the Old World—thus Australia is
deprived of much-needed rain and Maoriland of the heat
always set free by rain. So is it, thought 1, musing as
the preacher doth, in the political and social world, ywe
export to England the richest products of the earth ;
wheat and wine and oil and wool and the good red gold,
and get in return shoddy articles and pound-notes that
we could have made just as well ourselves. We give
away our freedom for a foreign governor, for foreign
titles, and for the glory of being a dependency of Gt.
Britain. We pay Britain to defend us against our
enemies in war—this billet is a sinecure, for our
enemies never fight and as a return Britain
introduces into our midst the foul and pestilential
plague of Chinese. What then is the meaning of this
loyalty to the Mother Country and worship of the Old
World so rampant everywhere that we can’t mention a
place in Australasia without mentally cursing the name
of it? Must we remind ourselves of the old lady men-
tioned in the National Anathema every time we speak of
Victoria and Queensland, and of some obscure odorous
region in Holland by the name with which Maoriland is
officially branded ?/ What city in Australasia is without
its George-street; Princes street, King-street or Queen-
street or Theatre Royal? Indeed, if a man invents a new
shirt you must ask for the Albert-Edward shirt. When-
ever the Mahometans sit down, or stand up, or spit, or
cough, or yawn, or do anything at all, they are required
to call upon Allah ; we are just as diligent in the worship
of these wretched Quelphs.
' The loyalty of the Briton is the most indiscriminating
and comprehensive thing on earth ; it takes in every-
thing in the island. It is a fact that the true-
born Englishmen take a pride in the fog of Lon-
don, their Polar Christmas, the odorous Thames,
their naval disasters, their blind beggars (Lamb
writes a complaint on the decay of beggars) ; everything
there becomes an institootion and must be kept up.
General Booth, with one section of the people (the Stead
section) is an institootion, so is the Submerged Tenth, and
the House of Lords—even Hell must be kept up because
it is mentioned in the English Bible, and is, therefore, an
institootion. 1 know an Englishman who reverently pre-
serves a little glass jar full of English sand which he
brought out with him to look at. Prompted by the same
reverent spirit, others brought with them such beloved
English institootions as rabbits, hares, mice, rats, the
voracious and numberless small birds, the very vermin of
England—ferrets, stoats, weasels, even fleas (of which
England boasts 30 varieties). It was the patriotism of the
Scotchman that introduced the thistle. It is loyalty
which admits the scurvy Chinese, because they were
recommended by Britain, and indeed Britain made a
treaty with China 50 years ago, admitting Chinese to all
her dependencies.
But courage ! This will not last for ever. We will not
be dependencies much longer; an exclusive Australian
spirit and Australian pride is springing up, and will soon
be a match for the foreign article. A far-seeing Pro-
vidence has indicated the proper attitude of Australasia
to the Old World. Look at the map: Maoriland is the
leg of Australasia raised on high delivering the kick of
expulsion and contempt to the blasted Ancient World,
eloquently saying to John Bull—“ Git out.” Amen.
—Forgive me, Balbus.
Thus a correspondent:—
Dear Bulletin,— Fat Man’s literary jackal is on the
warpath. The New South Wales country press is literally
deluged with column screeds designed to prove: 1. That
“ the number of competent shearers is very nearly double
what it was before the great strike, and unionists dare
not overlook that fact.” 2. “That another shearers'
strike would cause the British investors to withdraw all
the capital out of the country.” And 3. That “ the
prestige of New South Wales will be dragged through the
mire” if the Minister for Lands declines to renew the
leases in the Central Division. These awful warnings are
signed “One of the People,” “ One of Many,” and various
other delusive norns-de-plume, but the trail of John
P is over them all. From their tone it is easy to
see that a reduction in shearing-rates is meditated, and
also that the Fat Man intends to move Heaven, and a
large quantity of ink, to induce the Minister for
Lands to block selection for another five years.
Here’s a fine sample of his argument:—“ If the
cancellation of the pastoral leases were necessary
to the progress of settlement, the future gain might out-
weigh the present loss, hut experience has shown that in-
discriminate selection generally signifies wholesale land
jobbery, and it may fairly he asked what benefit does the
State or the community derive by permitting the pro-
fessional lessee, to whom he will ultimately endeavour to
sell Ids land. The Colonial Treasurer receives little or no
benefit, the cause of land settlement is not advanced,
while the pastoral lessee is impoverished ai d compelled to
increase the amount of his indebtedness to the hanks and
financial associations. Why should war ho so per-
sistently declared against the pistoralist?” Why do
the heathen (selectors) rage ? The Colonial Treasurer
receives from me fourpence per acre rent from
the pastoral lessees a fart hinu up to 2Jd. So much for the
“ present loss ” to the Treasury. Hundreds of men are
waiting for the leases to he thrown open in the Central
Division rather than go in for “ indiscriminate selection ”
among the barren mountains left over by the land-
grahhing pastoralists. And when the leases are opened
let the land be classified. The present Land Act appears
to have been based upon the assumption that God made
N. S.VV. with only 'one quality of dirt—all at £1 per acre-
ridges of road-metal where a goat would starve, and rich
river flats. And the squatters have the gall to demand a
perpetual lease of the river flats at ai farthing per acre.
Shall the Fat Man prevail? No fear. The Amalgamated
Selectors’ Associations intend to be heard in the matter.—
Yours, &0., Cockatoo.
A few phrases from a letter signed “ A Working
Man,” in the S.M. Herald :
A great reaction has set'in against the principle of pay-
ment of members, what the Times has so aptly described
as mob-rale. . . . The labour and so-called democratic
members have been a failure, and are mainly responsible
for the existing distress by frightening away capital.
Now, while all must agree, who have any stake in the
country or value the future of its best interests. . . .
It is to be hoped that, should the next Parliament be
sufficiently ■ representative of the best interests of the
country to rectify the great mistake that was made when
the payment of members'principle was passed. . . . .
What we want to form the Legislative Chamber of this
colony and restore its declining prosperity are influential
representative men of weight and position in the
community, and this is a view that I think all
right-thinking people will cordially endorse
professional agitators and greedy adventurers who live by
playing upon the ignorance of the working classes. . .
Wage-earners ought by this time (o see that their own
interests are indissolubly bound up with the existence of
a Chamber composed of such men, and not by a body of
needy self-seekers who live by setting class against class
and propagating socialistic shibboleths. It is clearly
apparent that capital developing the great resources of
this country in private enterprise of every description
would prove of no greater benefit to any class than to the
working classes. Let the workers be satisfied with a
reasonable wage, and allow the capitalist that return upon
his investment that they would expect were they cha-
pters themselves—a possibility that in this country,
with thrift and sobriety, there is nothing to prevent them
becoming. I would ask my gulled fellow-toilers to unite
one with another at the next election in the formation of
an Assembly of men of weight.
“My gulled fellow-toilers !” When the
fatted capitalist writes a letter to the papers
and signs it “ A Working Man,” he always
makes just this kind of a fool of himself.
Some day the present writer intends himself to
send a long letter to the Herald. He means
to fill it with remarks like “ the down trodden
worker,” “ bloated capitalists,” “ Fat Man,”
“ the monopolist who lives on the flesh and
bones of the poor,” and “the brutal laud-
stealer,” and with demands for socialism, the
abolition of capital, the overthrow of the
Empire, and a general distribution of wealth.
Then he will sign it “ A Bank Director,” and
await results.
Sydney Sunday Times, the fine “ Democratic”
Cockney journal which not long ago advocated
that every man should have votes in proportion
to the sum he was prepared to pay for them to
the consolidated revenue, on the first page of a
recent issue advocates “ the abolition of trial
by jury.” On page 4 (after printing a column
or so of small type about the “ long drop,” the
“ greased rope,” the “kinks in the cord,” the
“ weight of the prisoner,” the “ ignorant hang-
man,” the “lingering agony of suffocation,”
and light Sunday pleasantries of a cognate
kind), the gallows-ghoul croaks virtuously :
Why not reform hanging altogether? There seem to
be only two alternatives-either adopt a more humane
method of execution, or exclude the press, as long as ils
representatives insist on pandering to their readers’ lase
passion for horrors.
Mephibosheth ! The Sunday Times, you see,
doesn’t take much interest in hangings, turns
up its nose at them in fact, because they never
occur on Saturday, but it waxes enthusiastic
over such floggings as do occur on that day in
time for its edition. The virtuous denouncer
of those inkslingers who “pander to their
readers’ base passion for horrors” crowds halt-a-
column with descriptive thrills about the howls
and squirms of a wretch under flagellation, with
fancy type headings reeking of blood-gouts and
raw flesh, and with an indignant remonstrance
directed at Dr. O’Connor, the gaol medical
officer, who, it is more than insinuated, prema-
turely stopped the flogging because he was a
squeamish person “ who probably allowed his
humane feelings to get the better of his sense of
justice.”
Editor Bulletin,— Anent pearl-diving in the
deep waters of Torres Straits, some of your par-
ticulars are incorrectly stated, but the deduc-
tions arc accurate. The divers are paid big
“ hays,” averaging about £2O per ton (the boss
decides how much is “ a ton ”), and small wages
—from £2 to £5 monthly. Divers are perfectly
free agents ? Of course ! But if a diver doesn’t
go down in the deep water out of which other
boats are hauling in the shell, out he goes. He
isn’t compelled to dive in murderous depths ; lie
has “freedom of contract”—to stay unem-
ployed. What do the divers usually do
with the money they earn in “lays”? The
answer is—“ Slop Chest.” “Slop Chest” on
board a pearler is a comprehensive receptacle
and generally consists of the whole vessel. The
principal article sold to the men is Hollands
gin, mostly smuggled, and sold to the brown
man at 15s. per bottle. The maximum cost of
a case of gin, duty-paid, mind you, is about £5.
A case contains 15 bottles, and" is thus retailed
at £ll ss.—a profit of 125 per cent. What the
profit is on smuggled gin may be imagined.
Similarly, for all other articles the men are
charged about 160 per cent, above cost-price.
Here’s the vogue: On Saturdays, the coloured
men go on board the “ fleet’s ” schooner.
Liquor is as plentiful as was the wont at boom-
time land-auctions. The bibbers generally
want to buy everything, and their purchases
are set down against their earnings. When
being “paid off,” a diver has seldom more to
receive than one-twentieth or so of his total
earnings. I knew a good diver who, at the
end of a six-months’ engagement, was found to
be—one penny in debt ! But the manager was
a generous man, and put the penny into the
petty cash out of his own pocket.—Yours,
Honest George.
Righteous Wrixon, with his flabby-dabby
“ moderation,” is the most irritating M.L.A. in
the Victorian Assembly. A bare mention of
scandals brings the respectable Wrixon to ids
feet for the purpose of “ deprecating any dis-
cussion at this stage.” The stage at which
Wrixon could discuss Matthew Davies is
never reached. For 12 weary months or more
has Wuixon been popping up to deprecate.
The oilier week lie shook Ids hollow head at the
Assembly and told everybody to keep quiet
because Matthew was mb judke. That calm,
judicial “gag” had to be dropped when the
Grand Jury’s true bill was pronounced bogus, so
last week Weixon repeated his prayer for
silence on the ground that Matthew minht
be mb judice again. If every legislator were a
■ 110 J u<licl ' al wrong could hope to be
righted by the alleged guardians of Justice. It
ls part of Wrixon’s creed, and the creed of
men like Gillies and Robert Harper, that
nobody should hear, see, or say anything
scandalous.” Wrixon publicly glories in the
lact that he knows nothing about the Davies
case. His mind is a beautiful blank on the
subject, it appears. He wouldn’t form ah
opinion about Matthew’s shameless dodging of
the Law—not for all the world.
iDear Sarah, ere dying I take up my pen
To write you a loving farewell,
Turn pious, and stick to the Bible, and then
You will not be wanted in H—l;
;For that is the place where so many must go,
Unless a kind, merciful God
tCan giv6 them a show of redemption below -
By letting them get into “quod.”
The short out to Heaven is “quod.”
Dear Sarah, if still you were keeping the Farm,
The Farm where we used to make hay,
I might have some dread of your coming to harm
When Death took you off and away;
But since you are fixed up in prison for life—
Reprieved by command of the Gov.—
The world, with its strife, cannot get at my wife,
I think you should meet me above—
I will speak to St Peter, my love.
The babies, kiss-kissie! will also be there:;
I dreamed of them, Sarah, last night—
I heard a soft rustle of wings in the air,
A chorus of crowing delight.
Methought they had fluttered through measureless
space
To welcome the penitent man
Who sent them apace to that glorious place
Before their temptation began—
By-the-bye, that’s an excellent plan.
How pleasant it feels to be “washed in the blood!”
(See 2nd Corinthians —Paul)
There is comfort and joy in the sickening thud
With which I shall presently fall.
The judge asked the Lord to have mercy—you
heard
The cant of that gentleman grim.
Th & judge did—absurd ! I am thinking, my word:!
I had better be praying for him -
There’s no “ drop ” salvation for him.
Now, stick to the Bible, my Sarah, and kneel
Until you are sore at the knees,
There’s a mansion where sinners can’t enter and
steal —
Do lay up your treasure there, p'casie.
You’ve gone from the path that you formerly trod,
So try to be gentle and mild ;
The Kingdom of God, though it strikes you as
odd.
Is just like a dear little child—
A poor little baby-farm child.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
aadi css must, in every case, appear on MS.
Your animosity towards the
local policeman doesn’t make gord verse... ‘■Scribe”
(Sydney); Tale too harmless. If you keep your tale un-
spotted from the world it won’t 5e11.... “ Maori lander ” •
Declined. Your politician was chiefly celebrated because
his wife was the most bruised and blackened lady in his
constituency, and his front window was generally broken
owing to his dashing the dinner through the glass into the
A.D.” (iJourke) : Thereis a great dearth of
excitement about the river’s “gleaming breast,” and so
on. ho man ever killed another in an argument over a
Subject like that “John M'Cann”; Indefinite shrieks
about the proud tyrant,” written on coarse brown-
paper, never did any good. Moreover, the local “ tyrant ”
isii t noted for pride so much as for fat, perspiration, ser-
viiity, and a tendency to guffaw at obscene stories
Overdraft”: You travel on the theory that it is the
poor man who has an overdraft. It isn’t. The poor man
hardly ever gets one. The poor and honest man never
does, unless he conceals his honesty “ J.R.” (Sydney);
Subject played 0ut....“ Subscriber from the First” -
Ves. The limit isn’t fixed yet. But we believfe it will
release all current accounts shortly “ P.X.H.” ; There
is a good ring about your verse, but the subject is stale
and no man shall rhyme a bluey ” with “Paraguay’* intiiis
paper while we are out of the benevolent asylum.
“Kiwi” (Napier): Only a solemn catalogue of sixteen
dead men in a boat.... “Reform ” (Wentwoith) ; (1) \V 0
can’t give you a complete list. (2) Nothing can be abso-
lutely proved. Homicide has diminished in ■many
countries where capital punishment is abolished, and also
in many where it is not abolished. You can’t compel the
man who didn’t commit murder to state definitely why he
didn’t commit it, therefore you can’t prove anything
“ M.E.L.” (Brisbane): Thereis no special interest about
your large-hoofed and unprincipled bush-girl “ Ben
Sun ” : Why should you curse so hard at the new Chinese
church? The dismal grind of the supplication mill will pro-
duce no effect on anybody ; and the Chow is as good to
practise on as anybody else “ A.X.P.” :No “ Pie-
bald ” : Declined for five reasons-(l) It is borrowed ; (2)
it isn’t worth borrowing ; (3) it isn’t true; (4) ir wouldn’t
make any difference if it were ; (5) the subject is plaved
out, anyhow',... .*• A.S.” (Napier, M.L.): Too long-drawn
out. The moral is all in the tail—
“ And I learn with pain and sorrow there that every
Liberal plan
Will (and here comes in the saying) “ pauperise the work-
ing man.”
...“Scotty the W.” : If you are smitten with that
elephantine actress, The Bulletin isn’t. It views her
unromantically as a fearfully over-rated person with bed-
post extremities, and a habit of heaving dishes at her
relatives in private life “M.A.L.”: Poem bidding the
workers, in general terms, to “Arise and strike,” is only
telling somebody unspecified to aim a vague brick at space.
Have you arisen and struck, and, if so, where is the dent ?
“ Murrumbidgee Whaler ”: Received “N.N.” : Measles
is undoubtedly a dangerous raalady—an infectious high
fever on which pneumonia frequently supervenes. WUh
cai e, how'ever, it is seldom fatal. The special danger lo
adults arises chiefly from their refusal to be put to bed
like children. Which probably also accounts for the
fearful death-score with Polynesians in measles-epidemics
....“Croydon” (N.Q.): To hand.... “F.Y.” : Your
“spontaneous doggrel ” is a malarial exhalation from a
brain-swamp.... “ Orara ” ; Clumsy suggestion... “ Aus-
tralian Patriot” (Boggabri): Adjective your adjectives !
....“Mushroom” (Camooweal, Q.): All right; keep on
thinking hard.... “ H.S.R.” : W.P.8.... “ Thos. R.W.C
Shepherd, Prince, and Lawgiver for God and People ”;
You apparently hold a commission in the three-ball line
for the Guelph dynasty.... “ Whybra ” : Social reformers
often discover they are but human, and that there are two
sexes. No cause for w'onder “Oblivion”: Honourable
sentiment in inexcusable verse “ A.G.” (Newcastle,
N.S.W.): Can’t spare space for your friend’s bathos...’
“ R.D.” (Jinderah, N.S.W.); A bad vein of crudely-turned
blank verse.... “Nemo": Your “gentleman friend” is
guilty of an unnatural anti-climax, and violates even the
canons of designed incongruities. Besides, the yarn is
too Hinglish.... “ Old Peter ” : Don’t go to law. Simply
bang his head against a doorstep “Pay Up” - Yes
just lovely... .“C.8.R.” (T.): Can’t tell until we see it.
“A.R.”: You are suffering from gout. You are the first
Bulletin contributor who could ever afford such a thing.
“Gifford H.” : You evidently know Gordon by heart.
Strike out for yourself.... “Jack C.” (N.S.W.): Not vet.
Vide advt.. .“JohnM.” (Fiji): The Columbian is, most
certainly....“ Kookaburra ” ; (1) Totes are not legal in
N.S.W. ; (2) they pay 1,2, and 3.... “Tom Pepper”;
“Princess May’s Patent” loyally declined. “Wom-
bat”; A stereotyped murder....“ The Coo Coo”; To
hand... “Tweedale”: Eight pages of exordium are not
required to prove that a tax on land-values is just and
necessary.... “Ahvyn Bryher ” : Tragedy in doggerel is
like the “ Dead March ”on the bagpipes. MS. returned
.....“Henrique Wilson”: Diluted skim-milk of humour.
....“Cayuga”: Honeymooning joke unprintable
“ J.M.” : You speak only for yourself when you urge that
even a Cardinal’s dicta are worth “ just their weight of
reason.’’ No sectarian religion recognises the fulness of
reason in respect of things theological ...“H.0.C.”:
Your lines on Sheol establish the necessity for such an
institution Ajax ” : Lacks body, also climax.
“ Undine” : Will try and work out your conundrum by
algebra.... “ Neutral Tint ’’: ’Twas old when the world
began....“ Thompson” (Westwood): (1) Yes, monthly
(2) You can invest £5 or 55....“ Weekly Reader ” : It
w ill certainly work, we are told, for two or three years
but it’s doubtful whether it will continue to pay dividends
for that time....“ H.H.” (Marrickville): “Humour” of
the machine-made variety “Decima”: Thanks
Story much too warm-blooded “Wai Rim”: To our
notion, your adopted misspelling spoils the jingle.
“ Gidge Bowers ” (Q.): What you need is hydropathic
massage and total abstinence. When convalescent, take
not to literature but to shaving porkers. A narrow fire
blown from the S.E. doesn’t threaten the N.E ’
“Goody-goody” (Brisbane, Q.): A double-perambuiator
is about what would suit you “ V.S.” (Carlton, Vic )•
We always, when in doubt, spell it “Stuart.” On this
ground: Once, Education Secretary Venables (Vie)
addressed a royal scion as “Stewart,” whereupon the
latter directed his reply to “Mr. Vegetables”
“ M.E.L.” (Brisbane, Q.): Inconsequential trouble on the
part of confidence-thieves “Will G,” (Ab., N.S.W):
Badly-cooked verse, so to speak—burnt round the ed<>-es
and raw in the core..,. “Casmajor ” (Evans River):
Not worth ink... “ Ilistoricus ” : Noted “ T.J.B ” •
Yes, and it was unsuitable “R. J. Phinister (Cool-
garra); That is so. He will write you “ N.F.”
(Geelong, Vic.): There is room for much ingenious
argument in what you say concerning The Bulletin’s
last “missing word teetotal,” but our use of the
word is easily defensible. You cannot cavil, on the
ground of obscurity of meaning, at the use of such a
phrase as “teetotal si at is tics,” Why not “teetotal
facts?” The origin of the word is said to have been a
dovetailing of the two words “ temperance” and “total”
—T. total;” “ teetotal.” A dictionary definition places
the adjective as meaning “ total; entire ’’—only that and
nothing more ; hut the world uses it in a specific sense
“JR - ’ : Should be reported to N.S.W. Minister of
Justice.... “Advocate ” (N.S.W.); Tame enough to war-
rant: the suspicion that you breed vein - own tragedies
“Korero” (M.L.): Jangling jingle. Your only bridit
thought is to rhyme “ ladies ” with “ babies 1’ “Tam
Inurine” (Waggn, N.S.W.); Forced lies are Indigene us
cver.\ whcio.... “t1.P.8.” (M.L.): Amateur verse on “A
Battlefield is audacious, after Campbell and Byron...
“ J.U.M. (Melb.): Verse of indifferent merit, bid other-
wise healthy . “John C. JFK.” (Castlemainc Vic)-
Will endure polishing.... “Cecil Knox Thanks, but the
authorities wouldn’t allow it ... “ Queenslandei ’’ (W \)•
Many thanks—“J.J.M’K ” (Fairlie): Thanks


gpticA to fuit all fight*.
Pitted bp a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
f> per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
t 1 by the Faculty, 10. C per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «Sc ROBERTS,
Jewellery Showrooms,
IS HU NT E U STUEET, SYDNEY.
FROSSARD'S SWISS.
A. CJood and Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
i '
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
pa
Manufactured bv
J, FROSSARD & CO.,
1*.4 V'KI! \ K (Sw iI /o rla n«i >.
inv otf®r bSid 1 ' ty v t h^.? rl r n ‘? I,fsh n P oh^ nilh } 0 - The y longer, better filled and heavier than
.my f trier brand. iliiy them by bundles of 25—they cost yon less, and yon know yon cet the Pennine
article, by seem* onr Name and Trade Mark round each bundle. y g genuine
[? ]
840 Maeqnarie-street North, Sydney,
August 23, 1803.
My Dear Moorabinda—
St. Vincent’s Hospital annual ball, at Sydney
Town Hall, was perhaps the most stylish hop of
them all. At one time St. Vincent’s ball was an
overpoweringly joyous occasion largely pervaded
by the great gold-washed, and the dais people of
the era would look timidly on for an hour or two
and then fly in polite disorder when the stout lady
in green satin began to waltz with her head on her
partner’s shoulder, but that period has passed away.
A ladies’ committee was added this year, headed by
the Admiraless, and as the gentlemen’s committee
absolutely gave them their own way, the greatest
harmony prevailed behind the scenes.
I liked the hall trimmings. The place was artistic
and bowery ; the dais was like a triumphal car;
the sit-out corners like drawing-rooms; and a,sort
of mile-stone on the road to supper, a tea-buffet,
3id a roaring trade under the eastern gallery.
Violets and daffodils decorated the vice-regal
ooard, and the table-dressing all through was
good—the buffet having a large sugar model of St.
Vincent’s Hospital which ought to have acted as a
warning to thoughtless belledom topping off with
aot coffee and cold ice-cream, and then going out
So philander on the marble stairs.
There was dressing enough on the floor to make
a gaudy spectacle for the crowd of sight-seers in
she gallery, who carry opera-glasses as they do at
she {>lay and devour private citizens out for the
Bvening as if they were the waxworks. Lady
Duff’s festive turn-out was a blue-grey satin
Orocaded in pink roses and verdure, and finished
with a dark-grey flounce round the hem; the
Dodice “ faked up ” with strawberry velvet
und fine lace any number of diamonds,
a pink feather in her hair, and a com-
mittee bouquet. Mrs. Bowden-Smith wore a
mnny-ooloured brocade draped with cream lace,
And a piece of lace for a necklace—diamond
Brooches ; Miss Duff repeated her Dresden China-
ish get-up worn at the F.A.L. ball; Miss H.
Duff wore white; Mayoress Manning was
quietly dressed in white silk covered with black
lace, and made with black velvet sleeves—diamond
ornaments ; Mrs. Prendergast, in cream brocade
And blue velvet, sported a snappy diamond neck-
lace.
Mrs. “Tom’’ Slattery’s gown was ciel-blue
oengaline, trimmed with pale-blue crepe and blue
ostrich feathers; Miss Ethel Pilcher wore pale
lulphur silk mixed with sulphur blue; Mrs. A.
Dhamier, black velvet with white silk petticoat
covered with black lace, the bodice heavily
trimmed with jet; Mrs. J. T. Toohey (one of the
hon. secs.), black brocade with white silk sleeves
uovered with fine black lace; Miss M'Donagh
wore heliotrope bengaline; Mrs. John Hughes
was in golden bengaline and cream lace; Miss
Dalton, white rep silk trimmed with honiton
lace. I was amused at a gold-washed lady in gas-
green with a five o’clock tea-cloth of maltese lace
draped across her; and a girl in deep cream lace
Oasque over a very skimpy and short red skirt
looked as if she was parading in her petticoat. A
welter-weight Sydney musician turned up with a
big boutonniere to match his figure, I suppose,
but neither Sir Robert Duff nor either of his
young men wore the vestige of a flower. Can it
be that the only fancy interval in masculine
evening-dress is doomed at Govmentouse?
I am requested to say that an amateur dramatic
show in aid of the much-talked-of Kilburn Sisters
comes off at the Royal Standard Theatre on Mon-
day, 28th inst., under vice regal patronage. There
will be a triple bill, and front seats are four shil-
lings a piece.
One or two people don’t seem to quite know who
the Kilburn Sisters are. They are itinerant
Anglican mins who go about in dismal robes
establishing schools and teaching therein—ladies
who catch on readily in society in Sydney, at
least, and who have no rigid notions of celibacy
like the Sisters of Mercy and other professional
(as distinguished from amateur) nuns.
Whenever I see a Kilburn Sister I am re-
minded of a story a man who knew his
London told me once. He was walking
down the Strand one day when he sighted
a nun whose manner struck him as being not at
all conventional, though her dress (saving her
boots —evidently from Paris) was very correct.
And when this recluse got up to him she gave him
a meaning wink that would have made a chorus-
girl’s fortune, and— but the story ended there, for
me at least. Not that I mem to infer for an in-
tant that the Kilburn Sisteis evi-r wink (.’>•• I'mr
eve—only, you know, they can get married if they
choose, and I was just wondering how they could
encourage a man without producing something of
the incongruous effect of the winking nun in
question.
The latest Y.R. vehiclesarethecommon or garden
omnibus, in which the daughters of the house of
Duff go about from place to place. I saw two of
them—l mean the daughters—taking to the’bus
the other day in the most middle-class manner in
the world, and I made a mental note of it in the
interest of the “ Society ” papa who is teased to
death by his girls over buying a go-cart to get
about in “respectably,” and who has heretofore
had no high-class examplar to quote for the
defence.
What are the odds that Gov. Duff doesn’t start
an expedition a la Kintore along the overland
telegraph-route ere his term of office runs out?
At the present rate of progression—two boroughs
in a week—N.S.W. won’t be large enough for
him in his official capacity in a very little while.
The suburban mayor who recently remarked that
“ we mustn’t wear his Excellency out,” must have
meant his considerate speech to work either way.
Sir Robert is certainly making the pace a cracker
for the man who succeeds him, and I do think
that when some hide-bound municipality begs him
to unveil their new pump he might pause and re-
flect that his amiable acceptance may lead to his
successor being confidentially approached to stand
sponsor to a dog-trough.
It’s evident, from a recent remark by Gov-
Duff, that vice-regal office in N.S.W. isn’t re-
garded at ’Ome as a promising opening for a
Reohabite. “When ei was leaving for Ostrayl-
yali,” said he, “one of my predecessahs (Caw-
wington?) asked me if ei could drink champagne at
eleven in the mawning. And when ei told him
no, he ansahd : ‘ Then you’ll nevah get on in New
South Wales.’” Now, if Australian government
is really government-by-charnpagne, it looks as if
the bottle-nosed swell who wants a berth would
simply have to submit a coloured view of his pro-
file and walk away with the position.
The “Royal,” nee “National ” (what a falling-
off is there!) Horticultural and Pomological
Society sent up a deputation to Government
House, the other day, to ascertain, for one thing,
the particular ways in which Lady Duff (she lias
been in N.S.W. three or four months) wished to
assist in the cultivation and preservation, of our
native flora. Lady D. is understood; to. have
fallen a victim to the charms of the straggling,
spiky blossoms that decorate Australia, and she
has already inaugurated a bed of native flowers at
Government House. On being goaded by the
deputation aforesaid into a distinct patronage of
the conventionally-artistic waratah and all his
tribe, Lady Duff offered a silver cup to encourage
the cultivation of the wild vegetable in all its
branches.
The only drawback is that the wild vegetable
generally objects to be cultivated. You can’t pot-
out even the flaming bottle-brush with any degree
of success, and the wiriest and shaggiest blossom
of them all, if yon start manuring its roots and
treating it with a water-can before sunrise, will
become a floral invalid and expire at the shortest
notice. Contrast the wild-flower beds in the
Gardens and the bush variety, and see which
looks the livelier. I think the most promising
precedent for the silver cup magnates to go upon
is the actonotus, which was worked up to saucer-
size in—halcyon era! —Lady Oarington’s time.
But what a lucky thing Lady Duff has taken
the indigenous flower to her bosom, as it were, in
good time for the spring and summer seasons ! In
my mind’s eye I can see the “ Duff hat ” perched
on a wire in some Block bonnet-shop, and lathered
with every variety of bush blossom that can be
copied in dyed muslin. Blessed is the she-
milliner who has artificial wattle in stock and left
over from the rage of last summer !
Sydney Metropolitan Liedertafel held a V.R-
concert at Sydney Town Hall last week, with
Lady Duff and a large party frpm Govraentouse,
looking as if potted out on a square carpet in the
very surf-beat of the melody. The best Lieder-
tafel effort was the Pilgrim’s Chorus from Tann-
hauser,jwith an effective accompaniment of strings
which was redeinanded; and “Through Woods
and Fields ” was successful too. The Metrops.
are evenly balanced vocally, and Signor Hazon
wields an effective baton.
Miss Lottie Hyam (in a very handsome gown)
and Rivers Allpress really helped the society by
their artistic and sympathetic playing of a duet
for piano and violin from a Gade” sonata. Miss
Trickett sang “Light in the Darkness” very
kindly, and refused a loud encore, but I wish she
wouldn’t flap her music as I have seen washer-
ladies shake a wet skirt; and Mr. D. Clancy,
who has been polishing up his bass abroad, un-
wisely substituted a tender German love-song for
a “Boatman’s Song,” for which he was pro-
grammed, and which would have suited his rather
boisterous and pebbly warblings to a T. Quite a
garden of flowers greeted the assisting ladies, by
the way.
Somebody has said the law is an ass, and it
really looks a very possible assertion when we are
told, apropos of the execution of Mr. Makin and
the life-imprisonment of his spouse, that in a case
where husband and wife are found guilty of the
same crime, the wife is held to be under the influ-
ence of her husband and sympathised with accord-
ingly. But, setting aside the historic adventures
of Adam and Eve, ignoring Lady Macbeth, and
coming down to commonplace, most of the hus-
bands I ever met were more under the influence of
their wives than vice-versa, if I know anything
about the signs iiiethe matrimonial zodiac.
Yes, woman is the power behind the throne—
she pulls the strings and—presto!—the figure
dances. I have intercepted far more authoritative
and withering glances from Joan to Darby than
otherwise—glances that acted on Darby like
forked lightning on a eurl-paper; the person
we read about in scripture who bade a servile
bondsman go and he went lives again in the
modern married woman. And I don’t only mean
the grey ftiares of matrimonial double harness
either—they generally have less real influence over
their husbands than the clinging sort of women
who usually manage to look as if their honeymoon
only concluded yesterday.
It was all cigarette-advertisement dressing in
the “Old Guard,” at Sydney Lyceum, if you
except the striped bodices of the chorus, which
reminded me of etherialised football-guernseys. I
have always thought Florence Young wears the
short skirts of Murielle quite cleverly. A maiden
who stands something appreciable in her stockings
generally sports short skirts as if she was going
about with her knees bent, but Miss Young makes
you forget that she has tucks in her frock. In the
last act she wore a low-cut bridal costume [a la
the Royal marriage),, with a handsome diamond
necklace, but I was rather amused at the shaggy
white cloak she carried in the first act. When she
hugged the Marquis, it looked as if Vernon had
been grabbed by the polar bear. Altogether she
is a neat woman, Florence Young. How graceful
she and Joseph Tapley did their simple dance in
“ The Vicar of Bray.”
Ida Osborne, as Fraisette, wore the sometimes-
fantastio dressing of her role with the air of one
whom, no stage-ward robe-mistress can ever suc-
ceed in astonishing. Violet Varley and Flora
Graupuer were phenomenally neat and military,
and Miss Gk’s last-act dress of heliotrope chiffon
and brocade became her to a buttonhole. And I
thought May Pollard, as a military dandy, was
effective enough to be painted on the posters.
Sydney is going to be treated to a series of lec-
tures in French on the “ Artistic Evolution of
France,” by M. Marcel Deslouis, who writes
burning verses in the Parisian papers. Mons.
Deslouis is- a son of M. Claudius Deslouis, the
well-known baritone, and will arrive in Sydney
dining October.
I am told by an eye-witness that at a certain
recent Australian race-meeting, one of the event-
was won by a horse belonging to a frisky, golds
washed lady of romantic reputation. A solemn
M.L.C. was standing in a dignified attitude in
front of the grand-stand when the animal passed
the post, and guess his delight when the lady
rushed up to him—seized his flabby hand and cried,
excitedly: “ Congratulate me, Johnny!” Johnny
left early.
The massive Madame Sterling was rather
troubled about certain adverse comments made
upon her warbling on her first Sydney appearance,
and on her second visit told somebody that she
was resolved to rest her voice as much as possible,
so as to let people see how large a canary she
really was. Therefore I was amused to hear of
her going to lecture a meeting last Sunday and,
not finding the spirit move her, retire after a brief
say. “We Quakers do not speak unless the spirit
moves us, and I am not moved to-night,” said
Madame, who looked as solemn all the time as if
she really believed in her own humbug.
Additional interest now attaches to Govment-
ouse through the arrival of Captain Geoffrey
Percy Thynne Feilding (he has not unpacked all his
names yet), of the Coldstream Guards, who comes
as superfluous aide-de-camp, to Governor Duff.
Captain Fielding has more of a Family Herald
Duke aspect than either of his fellow-sufferers in
office —his moustache alone is a decided acquisi-
tion to Sydney where the prevalence of the ostler-
shave makes the Block look as if the boy is father
to the man, so to speak, until you get a good side-
light on the crow’s-feet.
Last week was private-view week at the studios
of the Sydney artists. To succeed as an artist
nowadays you must be a showman as well as a
palette-scraper. The time is past when a possible
Titian lurked and worked in a tobacco-scented
velvet coat in his unknown lair, and kept himself a
dark horse until he was hung. The artist of to-
day coaxes society to flatter his. work when the
last dab has been administered, and puts a flower
in his coat and a tea-pot in the upside corner of
his invitation-card, and minces around his den at
Lady Hamfat’s elbow pointing out the excellence
of a sunset like a pound of gravy-beef. But, after
all, his trouble availeth him little when the Gallery
opens. On that great day, unbeminded by tea
and personal attentions, his guests battle round
the walls and breezily air their honest opinions,
forgetful of the fulsome compliments they paid,
really more to the host than the artist, at the
private view, Apd the result is probably one
more Diogenes seeking cynically for an. honest
man.
It is not always the worn-out waif who longs,
for the oblivion of the tomb. A well-dressed girl
in a Sydney omnibus wanted it very badly, the
other day. The vehicle was crowded’ when she
got in, but she heard a female voice near the door
proffering her a knee, upon which she sank, as the
’bus rolled on. AJI through the journey, she had
an idea that her singularly firm support belonged
to a lady whose dress seemed to surround her, and
when somebody arose and made room she thanked
the owner of the skirt for her kindness. “But
you weren’t on my knee at all,” replied the lady,
so sweetly—and then the horrified girl discovered
that she had been sitting on the knee of an utterly
strange man who had’nt even asked her to!
There was more room in the ’bus than ever after
that.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Magistrate Panton explains that he refused,
to issue a fresh criminal summons against Matthew
Davies because the prosecutor declined to say
that any new evidence was forthcoming. No
one acquainted with Mr. Panton’s lengthy
official career would dream of imputing to him
conscious corruption ; but it is deeply to be
regretted that he should have become so hideously
strabismussed in his old age.
At Grafton (N.S.W.) able-bodied appli-
cants for relief are set to labour at municipal
work “such as is required, but is not so absolutely
necessary as to warrant the expenditure of rates
upon it,” and the wages thus earned are paid out
of a general charity fund. In fact, the collective
ratepayers sponge on the contributions of charit-
able people. It might be interesting to analyse
the incidence of this kind of expenditure, lest there
occur a repetition pf the notorious Casual Labour
Board jobberies.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEV SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .. “Confusion.”
Theatre Royal “The World Against Him.’
Lyceum “ lolan,l|ie.”
Criterion “Richelieu.”
School of Arts Steens.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Terry Comedy Co.
Alhambra Variety Co.
Fillis’s Circus.
Alfred Dam pier’s new production, “The
World Against Him” is valuable if only as a
proof that there is something new even in melo-
drama. The novelty in this case is a drunken and
wildly gifted Frenchman with incriminating
documents concealed in his hat, and a hiccup and
the memory of a lost sister hidden away some-
where on the incrustation of his boozed person-
ality. The Frenchman is the principal feature of
the show, though even apart from him it is above
the usual average. There are all the requisite
materials in it, inasmuch as the man who is
wrongly suspected of taking the money out of the
safe in the first act—the crime being proved
against him through a friend having secretly paid
his debts for him with part of the foot —
whereby he falls- into reduced circumstances
and takes to associating with cat’s-meat men.
and similar outcasts, is ultimately proved—after
his wife has shot his eyes out by mistake —to'bo
the eldest son of the baronet whose money was
stolen, by his secret marriage with the sister of
the drunken Frenchman with the incriminating-
documents concealed in his hat, and consequently
the man who tried to kidnap the above gentle-
man’s wife during the excitement caused by air
old woman having a fit outside a pawnshop in'
Seven Dials is blown up by the Frenchman in the
last act, this righteous deed being abetted by tlur
fried-fish man not hereinbefore alluded to.
• # #
But even without these varied advantages,.
Dampier’s inebriated foreigner would command
success anywhere. He is an awful example of
the effects of British beer, pathos, bad tobacco,
sentiment, fog, gin, and underdone beef upon
the Gallic constitution. He is almost as
humorous in his own way as was Boucicault’s
famous Frenchman in the “ Amazons,” but
he is the Seven Dials variety of alien, and his
painfully acquired British idiom has been gathered-
in the wilds of Houndsditch. He is less obtrusive
than is usual in melodrama ; still when things go'
wrong, he generally drops in and breathes an-
odour of strange old liquors on the principal
villain, and breaks him all up. Mr. George
Buller, as a pawnbroker in a large way of business;
is another commendable feature. Mr. Buller’s
premises take fire in the course of the proceedings,
and his conduct creates an impression that he'
isn’t insured. Misses Blanche Lewis and Katherine
Russell also help things along with a vigorous
hand, and so does a very small “ Nipper hisr
total height is about 18in. “ The World Against 1
Him ” is more comic than melodramatic, for no-
one takes the persecuted gentleman seriously, and 1
the villain doesn’t really matter much, and the-
baronet isn’t of any account whatever. It is all-
built round the Frenchman with the fatal evb
dence hidden away in his hat, and he is a great
institution and deserves to be of long continuance.
*# * *
“The Old Guard,” which relieved “Lai
Oigale ” at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday, is one of
those comic operas in which the word-spinner’
leaves a great blank space where the quips ought
to be, and maintains a mysterious silence as to his
intentions regarding the funny man who has to-
evolve his jokes from his own inner-consciousness"
or miss fire in front. The author simply forces
him to state that he is a wag at different epochs in-
the plot, and the comedian has to supply the
waggishness all out of ’is own ’ead. Lanri
seemed quite equal to the strain of Polydore
Poupart’s unwritten eccentricities and put good
fresh business into the second act that got a treble
encore. And judging by the wild approval, the
spectacle of George Lauri in a comical bald head!
imitating, in dumb show, a woman at her toilette,
a billiard-player, and so on, besides facetiously-
catching a high note from Miss Florence Young
and playing “ bawl ” with it, is about as much-
opera as anybody wants.
* * *
Charles Ryley, who re-appeared as Marcel; •
looked Napoleonic, and sang “ When thou art
near ” with enough fervour to make it, if pliono-
grammed, invaluable evidence for plaintiff in a
b.p. case. Tapley’s Gaston was vocally satisfac-
tory, but it is being slowly borne in upon us tliat
Tapley, like Bernhardt, is wedded to his own hair;
and no alteration in the cast changes (Hie out-
ward facial aspect of Joseph. Howard Vernon’s
Marquis was an admirable get-up; Murielle (Miss
Young) and Fraisette (Miss Osborne) repeated’
former successes, and Violet Yarley as Palatout
got all the flower’s, and sang her chorus songs very
gamely, but made double Dutch of her “spokens.”
You detect in Miss Vi. a tendency to jib with the
two first words and then bolt with the rest of the
sentence, and the effect sounds like Welsh to the"
general public. Flora Graupner looked fetching
as a oan.tiniere, and got thro’ a sort of cross
between a skirt and a step dance to loud applause,
although the Jin dc slide ballet had made the
audience critical; and Sid. Deane, as Sergeant
Caramel, made up into a nigged old soldier;
“lolantho” exorcises the Maire of Vandrez-les
vignes to-night (Saturday).
George Darrell’s drama, “Life for Life,”
now pursuing its devastating way at Sydney-
Majesty’s, is an anomalous ekurry of disconnected
incidents and scrag ends of thought, with G.
Darrell himself stepping in every five minutes or-
so, and fixing the different villains with his eye..
It arises, in the first place, out of the suspicious •
death of a bald-headed person in Dunedin-
hospital, and when the wrong man is accused of-
compassing his end Mr. Darrell- who is taking
notes on the premises in his journalistic capacity-
—at. once strikes the key-note of the situation by
fixing the real criminal with Ids eye. Later on -
liq fixes the whole prison .staff with his eye while
the suspect escapes. He is supposed to escape by
changing clothes with Mr. Darrell, but he doesn’t
change clothes—he merely takes off Ids coat and
flies, disguised in his own shirt-front. Mr.
Darrell also flies disguised in his own overcoat.
The next scene is at Hokitika, some nine months '
later, and in that brief period the whole hospital
staff and the police and tiic press seem to have ■
thrown up their billets and migrated. . lie head
surgeon is there as a violent storekeeper; the
assistant surge-in is hiding in a gully near by ; the
dispenser is in the gutter close at hand as a loose
and unattached drunk ; the porter is piesent as-
local funny man and assistant in a store; the
housemaid, the chief nurse and her sister, the
Dunedin police, the crowd about the gaol door,
and George Darrell himself have, all resigned their'


TKe Old Blend
Wlusky
WH |T6HORSE
DIRIOT FROM DISTILLERS. '
«LWMS THE SAME, PURE. MELLOWJ.
matured stolen halt
gdf
Edinburgh.
cf tKe
Cellar
situations and moved unanimously and without
explanation to the West Coast. The only one who
.hasn’t moved is the corpse who probably missed
ithe train and is coming on foot with his tomb-
stone under his arm, but his twin brother is
itlaere instead, and every time the dispenser sees
■him he falls over backwards, and hits some new
substance with his head. The erratic conduct of
four bushrangers, who go bushranging about this
■time with only two guns among them, and the
derangement of the police, who build a fire under
■George Darrell and tie a prisoner in the most
friendly manner to a burning tree, and the reck-
less way in which a sergeant of allegedly sound
intellect combusts a house with a lady inside,
may be excused in consideration of the vigorous
and efficient manner in which Mr. Darrell fixes
everybody with his eye. The company has sundry
good" points about it, Misses Jennie Lee, Myra
iKemble and Rhoda Halkett, and Messrs. Cates
and Stirling Whyte being among them. Mr.
Darrell’s acting has also much to recommend
it in spots, but the fact that he wrote the dreadful
iniquity puts him outside the pale of human com-
passion, “ Confusion ” next Saturday.
** * *
“Our own violiniste,” Miss Bessie Boyle,
and the other members of the D’Ensem-Doyle
company are announced, at time of writing, to
give a series of nine concerts at Sydney Criterion,
commencing on August 23. The company which
succeeds them on September 2, comprises, among
others, Messrs. Bentley, Lachlan M'Gowan,
Stoneham, Albert Lucas, and Mario Majeroni,
Miss Kate Bishop and Mrs. Molyneux. Artist
Spong is fixing up a whole lot of new scenery, and
the Curse of the Church has been repaired and
oiled, and got into good working order. Some-
thing like 26 years ago, by the way, a warrant is
alleged to have been issued for Mr. Bentley before
he was Bentley, and when he was only Begg,
junr., for desertion from a ship in Sydney Har-
bour—the tragedian, in those days, being a very
small boy who was very tired of the heaving of the
grey old sea. The Bulletin sincerely trusts he
won’t be captured before his opening night.
#* * *
The Steens, a weird and mystical combina-
tion of mental telegraphists, second-sight seers,
ghost-raisers, thought-readers, resurrectionists,
and magicians open their show on Saturday at
Sydney School of Arts, where they will proceed
to tell the audience what its wife is doing in its
absence. The Fitzgeralds’ Circus proceeds to take
its lions round the suburbs for a few nights. Also,
various other shows are much the same as they
have been all along.
m* * *
Antoinette Sterling lifted up her cast-iron
baritone in Sydney Town-hall for the last time on
Monday evening in the presence of a sizeable
audience, with Lady Duff and her daughters, pro-
tected by Captain Baird, in the van. Also a
battalion of bath-chairs were rolled in and placed
in the full blast of England’s Queen of Song, but
none of the occupants died on the spot, so far as
one could see. Madame wore an albescent robe
and a snowy hair-tie—Christian Scientific mourn-
ing, I suppose—and sang in the old, stertorous,
gusty monotone.
* # #
Isabel Webster’s pretty soprano seemed
slightly in need of a rest, although her singing of
the “ Jewel Song ” raised the encore fiend. Tenor
Woods has wisely let his moustache grow while
away and sang the “ Death of Nelson ” in a very
“ gentlemanly ” manner ; and Mr. Holder’s sym-
pathetic bass was heard to advantage in “Thou’rt
Passing Hence.” May Habgood accompanied
cleverly and contributed two solos in her usual
clear-cut style. She has overcome the fatal and
common tendency to tickle the piano ere com-
mencing in eai’nest. Wiegand, who got quite a
reception, presided at the organ when Madame S.
was looking for the “Lost Chord.”
** * *
“The Churchwarden” was produced at
Melbourne Princess’s, last Saturday, taking the
place of “Liberty Hall,” a comedy which won
favour for reasons apart from the very negative
success of the “ star ” character. That whist-
party in the seedy parlour, with a view of Miss
Folly Emery’s feet in the foreground, had become
almost famous. However, a strange and un-
natural desire to exhibit Mr. Edward Terry in “ a
round of characters” was accountable for “The
Churchwarden.’ and after seeing that gentleman
as Daniel Chuffy it is easy for Melbourne to
appreciate the shoclc of his Sydney debut. An
actor who comes across the seas to paralyse a
young country with Chuffy can’t complain of
being handed down to Australian posterity as a
second Johnny Toole. In any sort of play Chuffy
would be bad, but in a wire-drawn out-of-date
farce like “The Churchwarden” he is a lot
worse. The story of this weak atrocity was
related by The Bulletin a few weeks ago, and it
hasn’t lost an iota of inanity in the meantime.
The one dramatic virtue of “ The Churchwarden ”
seems to be a housemaid (Polly Rmery), who
explains her hasty conquest of the baker by saying
that maidens as only gets out once a month is
bound to take time by the.firelock and “ smash ”
’em while they can. “ The Nettle,” a clever one-
act absurdity brightly played by Sass and Miss
Watson, served as a lever de ridcnu to “ The
Churchwarden,” instead of following it by way of
apology. A few nights of “The Rocket” and
“Sweet Lavender” will bring Edward Terry to a
close. After that the company will play “On
Change,” with Courtneidge instead of Terry, for
the week before the big “ foreign ” show opens.
** * *
Almost as soon as Mr. George Musgrove
sets foot again on native soil he will forma solemn
committee with Mr. Williamson to consider what
prices must be charged for the coming Italian
Opera-cwm-Spanish - Ballet show. J.O.W. has
hinted to the press that nothing less than a Bern-
hardt tariff will meet the case, but it is a serious
matter to ask 10s. for any theatre seats these
times, in view of the fact that they will not bear
“ marking down ” as the season advances like a
draper’s stock. However, the show, so far as one
can sec, is to be a great and glorious one,
&* * *
Fillis’s airy iron circus has taken to itself
another gallery for the accommodation of an extra
1000 shillings, and the show booms. The Feeleys,
especially Dan of that ilk, and the cheery boy
seem to have developed humour along with agility,
pluck and muscle, and another powerful novelty
is the trim-built Lazel, who does many things to a
nicety. A wrestling match between trainer Cox
and one of his lions is in course of preparation.
Cox, as yet, finds some difficulty in persuading
tlie king of beasts to wrestle a “ schlenter. ” He is
naturally more honest than the performing bear,
who loses a fall with all the hypocrisy of a human
being. Meantime the circus is making things look
rather blue at the halls.
*» * *
“ The Queen's Laco Handkerchief,” at the
Royal, was played before lapidly-attenuating
audiences until Saturday night, ami then the new
season of comic opera breathed its last. There
was no advertised management at the head of this
enterprise, so the sudden collapse was a business
certainty. A really good comic opera never comes
along in a vague manner, and one that is no good
at all cannot be made to pay expenses under the
most favourable of conditions.
#* * *
Brough and Boucicauit are at Adelaide.
Their absence will send up the Sydney suicide-
rate,
«* * *
There is no rest from the übiquitous
Antoinette. At Melbourne’s “Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon,” at the Alexandra, assisted by several
parsons and Social Gimletists, she burst out before
a mixed audience into an impassioned harangue
about the “Age of Consent” and the “Social
Evil,” interspersed with cheerful medical statistics
and physiological facts, finishing up with a flood
of tears and an “Oh, God!” The Melbourne
man will in future hesitate about taking his best
girl to this institution, for there’s no telling but
what Nettie will have pickled specimens handed
round for the edification of the audience next
time. Again, front seats four shillings.
*# * *
Williamson and Musgrove’s Italian Opera-
cim-Spanish dancers company follow Terry at
Melb. Princess’, and the question as to whether
prices will be raised for the short “ foreign ” season
is much debated out of doors. At ordinary fares it
would be well nigh impossible to make such a
show pay. Some of the singers are stars of
magnitude, and the ballet—the ballet!—will run into
a colossal heap of money. Some 40 girls ate already
in training to support the dozen dark-eyed donnas
engaged by G.M. Yet the Eirm will think
long and earnestly about the unavoidable tariff-
increase, and they are bound to make the extra
fee as small as figures permit.
At Poverty Point.
Dear Bulletin,— ln a “Poverty , Point” par. you say
that perhaps “The Amazons” was much better acted in
Sydney than in London. An injudicious afterthought.
Brough and Boucicault company came from “Home”—
with a large H—whereas the London oast for “The
Amazons” included Australian Pattie Brown in a leading
character.—Yours, Rabid Colonial. [Well?—Ed. B.]
Lonnen is the most energetic man ever seen upon the
stage. He works like a steam-engine, and is in an eternal
perspiration. The Bulletin doesn’t worship Lonnen as a
histrion, but it admits that his skin acts well.
One hotel in Adelaide declines to receive “ theatricals ”
as boarders under any circumstances. No exception was
made even in the case of Bernhardt or Toole, both of
whom applied for rooms.
Fillis has a proposal, by a Melb. syndicate, to set him
up in a permanent circus, theatre, and holel, capital
quarter of a million—the old Trocadero scheme revived,
the site by the Hibernian Hall. Fillis won’t see it.
London Standard’s St. Petersburg correspondent:—
“ The event of the present year has been the appearance
at the Aquarium Opera of the new star, Madame Saville,
who has boldly attacked the same repertoire as Madame
Marcella Sembrich, her illustrious winter predecessor on
the same boards. Madame Saville bad been singing with
great success as prima at the Monnaie, in Brussels,
through the winter, but was otherwise unknown to the
Russian public, who awaited her debut with much
curiosity. Being an Australian by birth, and conse-
quently, to all intents and purposes, an Englishwoman,
there was no predisposition in her favour ; but she at once
won over the Russians, than whom no singer could wish
for a more enthusiastic audience. From the first she
pleased both the critics and the house, and in ‘ Lucia ’
the furore was boundless.”
Janet Achurch was offered the part of Mrs. Tanqueray
in Pinero's new play at the St. James’, but refused it
because the manager would not engage “ Charlie ” (Char-
rington) as well. Which accident caused Mrs. Patrick
Campbell to jump at once into the front rank of living
actresses.
On the arrival in London of Jacques Inaudi, the cal-
culating wonder, he held a reception at the Hotel Victoria,
and gave some examples of his talent. Arthur Garner
was asked to give him a mathematical problem, and, after
a slight pause, rolled out in his well-known phlegmatic
way - “ Charlie Warner has made a claim on me for £l5OO.
Gan your calculating phenomenon till him when he is
likely to get the money ?”
Haddon Chambers at latest was lying low. He is sup'
posed to be living at Birohington-on-Sea, the air of which
is said to stimulate the dramatic brain.
The “Much-Travelled” has arrived in London
from Chicago, where he bad a narrow escape of dying
from pneumonia. He awaits in England the arrival from
South Africa of his son, who has been running Max O’Rell,
and who proposes to take Santley to the Cape. Smythe’s
next venture in Australia may be Raymond Blathwayt,
the “champion interviewer,” an admirable lecturer, and
whose discourses are attractively illustrated by Phil. May
and Harry Furniss.
Terry is more like Jefferson than anyone who has ap'
peared in Melbourne, but—quanto intervallol
Olga Nethersole, it is said, takes a London theatre
though she hasn’t a rich uncle—only a brother.
Aim6e Moore benefits in Melb. Her friends cannot
persuade her there are a hundred walking about as good.
Wizard Hercat, formerly a Melbourne reporter, shows
brilliantly in London.
Mrs. Kendal has bought “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray”
for the U.S. The model Mrs. K. !
Lazel is not Zazel, but does the feat which attracted
Beaconsfield when he said “Difficult? Would ’twere
impossible,”
Again—parts make actors. Mrs. Campbell being indis-
posed in London, a Miss Granville has taken Mrs. Tan-
queray equally well. The understudy is a sleuthhound.
Thornton watched Grossmith in vain for 300 nights.
Irving took L. L. Smith behind the scenes. But couldn’t
£, £. take Irving behind the scenes 1
Fillis’s opening programme, Melb., was enthusiastically
dubbed the best ever seen. There really were new things
—the Feeley and Lazel business. No circus performer
ever hit Melbourne quite so hard as Dan. Feeley.
The Argus is losing its Tory dignity fast. Lately, in a
sub-leader, it complained that Ibsen “ made it tired.”
Geo. Selth Coppin, junr , who abandoned the sock and
buskin for auctioneering, has gone into the beer-pump
biz, and now runs a hostelry at Bendigo.
I Johnny Wallace’s Opera Co., at Melbourne Royal, is
evidently going to compete with the music-halls, as it
announces a 6d. “ touch.” And then the names-Olara
Merivale, W. H. Woodfield, Knight Aston, &c.
The Sterling narrowly escaped missing her passage at
Hobart while en route from Maoriland. The garrulous
lady was taken in hand by the local Y. W.C. A. and kindred
bodies, and by them taken to an out-of-the-way lodge-
room, and “gabbled ” until the very clock stopped. Then
there was trouble, for, when Madame looked at the clock
once and saw 3.20 (the steamer time was 4), she com-
placently settled down for another spurt until she was
rescued by the weary Lohr and dragged to the boat, just
as the irate skipper had decided to start without the
“ Queen of Song.” That clock is still at 3.20.
Allan Hamilton, Fillis’ accomplished advance-agent-
will pilot the Myra Kemble Co. through Maoriland, com-
mencing at the end of Sept. He leaves fillis after one
of the happiest engagements he has ever fulfilled.’’
Professor “Richard’s” Maoriland patients have now
taken to writing to the papers and using awful language
about that greasy philanthropist.
“ Not tuberculosis !” was the contemptuous remark of a
doctor, in the death-scene of Duse’s “Camille,” Critics
are critics nowadays.
“ Dr. Muller” is the most successful new Italian play-
As the German Heine became French, and the French
Chnmisso German, so Muller is Italianised, under the im-
pulse of his chum Flavio, and marries a beautiful Italian.
Flavio has strangulated hernia very badly, and Muller is
the most renowned operator in that line. He discovers
Unit his wife has been unfaithful with flavio. He can
save Flavio’s life or let him die. The professional
triumphs over the husband, and ho saves the Lothario.
One of the questions which the artistic ratepayer of
Sydney will be asked at next municipal election is Are
'on in favour of re-engaging organist Wiegand? Tins
Bulletin is, especially considering the meanness of the
attempts made to depose him.
“Bess,” the new play at London St. James’, shows how
a youth who has become the slave of morphia commits a
murder and is screened by his mother, who allows herself
to be arrested in his stead, and actually undergoes ten
years’ gaol. Genevieve Ward and W. H. Vernon have
parts in the drama.
“Poor Jonathan ” (says Tub Bulletin’s London cor-
respondent), upon which so much is being spent in puff-
ing and advertising, is as wretched stuff as was ever
staged. It is a poor imitation of “In Town,” with aheap
of vulgarity of the coster order thrown in. In London
D.T., upon a recent day, appeared three columns of advts.
of the wretched thing.
Snazelle recently gave an entertainment at a hall in a
Vic. country town. There was a “ grand piano in the
hall, and the town regarded the weapon with holy rever-
ence. But it didn’t please Snazelle, and he delivered a
little lecture when the show was over. After expending
a few compliments on the town, the district, the local
scenery, and the audience, he came to the musical instru-
ment. “As to your grand piano,” he said in the kindest
tones, “ I can assure you that it is worthy of better things
than being merely employed at occasional entertainments
like mine. It ought to be carried out of this hall, and
used as a fowl-house.” General satisfaction.
Mrs. Gown Trotter gushes in an Indian paper: “Oh
give me dear, beautiful India, with its cultivated people,
its romance, its colour. AH and everything in that clime
appeals to my nature, and thousands and thousands of
times I feel to cry out ‘Oh 1 for the wings of a dove. 1
know I say this to a sympathetic listener. * t
want to be India’s dramatic child.” The actress who
knows her business always has a fit like this just before
commencing a tour in a new country. It would be just
'' l - same if she were going to do a dramatic season in
Sheol.
Myra Kemble goes on a Maoriland tour shortly, with
George Leitch, Edward Sass, H. Plimnier, and Miss Rhoda
Halkett in her co. Leitch stage-manages, and in view of
the ancestral property at Washington, he will probably
find more friends and relatives and enthusiastic admirers
in Maoriland than all the rest of the co. put together.
Terry leaves for London, Sept. I—Sadder and W.
Judging from portraits in Melb. shop windows, some o
the ladies of George Musgrove’s new “foreign ” company
must be luscious creetchaws.
The Alhambra (Melb. Opera House) Variety Company
gave a performance before the lunatics of Kew Asylum,
the other afternoon, and were “ received with every mark
of approval by the audience.” One particularly
dangerous lunatic sobbed like a child at most of the comic
songs, which seems to suggest that the company struck
this bad case during a lucid interval.
“ Emelie Vousden,” of Auburn-st., Goulburn (N.5.W.,.
writes us concerning someone bearing her surname, who
is now 7 appearing in Melbourne. “Being a daughter of
the late Val Vousden, who gained a w’orld-wide celebrity
in the United Kingdom as an exponent of this particular
form of entertainment, permit me to state that the
Alhambra performer has no right w hatever to associate
his professional name with my father’s ; neither has lie
any connection with the family of the late Val Vousden.
A London paper, commenting on the “ pilling” of actor
Bancroft by the Athenaeum Club, declares that “ too
much has of late been made of actors, and the time has
come when a stand must be made against the over-
whelming advance of the cabotin also, that ‘ their
proper place is the theatre, and not the club-room the
greenroom, not the drawing-room.” Yaas. Sassiety only
doats on actresses ; damn the actors!
“ To him that hath a good engagement, a benefit shal
be given.” . ,
Organist Jude is credited with netting £BO over each
Adelaide Sunday concert.
The average public entertainer has just as much
ingenuity as a cockroach. No manager of Sunday even-
ing entertainments in Melbourne can vise superior to lime-
light views, as a rule about as exhilarating as the good
old family alburn.
The cable announces that an attempt has been made to
shoot Johnl Sullivan. Whilst deprecating hyper-criticism
as a general thing, we also admit holding extreme views of
Sullivan as an actor.
Harwood, writing to the Argus, incidentally mentions
that Income-tax cannot touch him, for the Commercial,
and so on, have left him without any.
Anson writes that he has a good engagement wdth
Beerbohm Tree.
Rumoured that a recent one-week season at a Sydney
theatre was so unprofitable to the speculator that not
even the poor supers were paid !
Minna Fischer (Mrs. Herbert Flemming) is rapidly
coming to the fore as a concert singer, and has lately
received most flattering notices from the London press.
Elton has taken a trip to New 7 York, but will return
shortly to rehearse the new Pettitt-Harris drama for the
autumn season at Drury Lane.
A Yankee dramatist has managed to put a tornado on
the stage. The scene js a peaceful village in Wisconsin.
It is the 4th of July, and the American flag hangs limp
and lifeless from a pole. Then a faint breeze shakes out
its folds. The breeze increases till the flag stands out
straight. Then the trees begin to totter as a howling gale
rushes through their branches. The sky grows black,
and there is a general yell out of the bony throat of the
infuriated elements. Trees come up by the roots and
bound across the stage, to vanish on the o.p. side. Roofs,
fences, and jagged ruins of all descriptions hurtle through
the atmosphere, and in fifteen minutes or so the village is
a mass of wreckage. After that the tornado subsides, and
the hero comes along and lifts a fallen tree off the villain,
who tells him with his last breath where the missing will
is concealed.
Madame Koenig, violiness, spectacled and natty, has
been carving her way into Melb. favour.
The Age says Terry’s strong point is losing his identity.
How opinions differ on a good actor 1
Johnny Toole is now in funds having made considerable
wealth out of “ Walker, London.” All that remains for
him is to retire carefully from the scene.
Boston actors, when interrupted by Harvard College
students, leaped over the footlights and pummeled the
leaders. Precedent for Sydney pros, when University
larrikins get noisy.
George Leitch, having argued with the manager, was
once condemned to play for twelve nights in a farce after
an Italian opesa. The operatics amazedly asked why.
“ Oh, it’s to strengthen the bill,” answered the conductor.
Somebody suggests, as quite a smart idea, that Pro-
fessor Miller should follow the lead of Sullivan, Corbett.
Jackson and Co., and take to the stage. “ The Professor
should make a hit as the wrestler in ‘ As You Like It,’ ”
writes this young innocent. Miller, as it happens, is an
old and experienced exponent of poetic drama, having
played Charles the Wrestler years ago in America, and
again at Melbourne Bijou when poor Phil. Day was the
Touchstone. The last time Miller popped up in Shake-
speare he did an effective piece of work. Mi In had him
as a captive slave in “Antony and Cleopatra’’—the his-
torical captive who once tried to kill Antony, or other-
wise made himself unpleasant, and was thereafter
condemned to tackle every athlete who came along.
Antony, at Melbourne Opera House, used to taunt the
manacled Professor, and the Prof.’s impulse to stoush the
proud Roman w’as dramatically expressed. Miller would
make a capital actor of a good chucking out part.
Histrion; “Talking of Miln makes many think o*
Jimmy Milne, the Australian Danny Mann, and whose
Major B’uss was a hit with the Gougenheims, at Melb.
Princess’s. The last time I saw him he was wending
mournfully to Con Warde’s funeral, Fitzroy.”
Terry is a grotesque, Toole a comic lecturer,
Greenaway has Garrick’s eyebrows, anyhow.
“Composers of comic operas may be divided into two
classes—those who plagiarise from the barrel-organ and
those who write for them."— Ex.
Charles Turner, tenor, has a good s'tage presence—o f
mind. One night in “ Mignon,” in the character of Wil-
helm Meisler, he called out—“ What ho! without there.
Bring me a glass of wine.” Seeing the “ super” advan-
cing with a bottle, he added coolly—“ Or a bottle; I don’t
care which.”
Ibsen, in one of his self-satisfied memoirs, speaks of
“my epigrams and caricatures.” If (he Master put any-
thing like epigram into his dramas, the English transla-
tions must indeed be bad. The dialogue of “A Doll’s
House,” for instance, doesn’t contain one single bright
sentence.
Harry Lyons, at I!) years of age (which was ever so
many years ago) had aspirations for the boards. Heap-
pear'ed at the old Theatre Royal, Launceston, in a, drama
called “Peter Bell, the Waggoner, or th" Murder at the
Wayside Inn,” followed by' the farce “Paddy Carey.”
The local editor was a left-off actor, who scorched and
withered the company in his paper with the following
brief criticism ; “It was hard to say who was murdered
in the drama ; bid it was evident to the audience that the
piece was. As to the farce, it was a farce ! ”
A most degrading style of advt. is adopted by Slelb.
music-hall performers. Actually a man sings a comic
song in a suit of clothes marked, in large letters, “This
style, £2, by , the cheap tailor.” Such things used
to be imagined as jokery, but the most unforeseen are
realised.
Chiarini was the first circus-man to impose the two
shilling Melb. minimum, in defiance of Bayliss’s predic-
tion.
Jefferson’s draw, as Rip, is more powerful than ever.
A London actress, in America, says she could not even
squeeze in by paying.
The chief Melb. theatrical hairdresser sells off.
Argus men say it was a mistake.
The future N.S.W, political fight will be
between the land-taxer and the single-tax Cr—the
statesman and the crank.
Neild, M.P., cherishes hopes of the
N.S.W. Chairmanship of Committees. Can im-
perfect human nature bear the strain of such
voluntary self-effacement? The jawbone gives
place to the padlock.
After years of political sham fights and
petty tactical victories, upon which the reputa-
tions of men like Parkes are built, New South
Wales seems to have reached the stage of action
at last. The political man of action is indispen-
sable for the future, and the party tactician and
mere talker can stand down.
It is a curious and suggestive coincidence
that the controversy between Sydney medical
experts as to the cause of the death of Thomas
Pert, victim of the Miller’s Point “ murder,”
should have distinctly opposed to each other the
Irish and Scotch factions of “ the faculty.” On
one side there gave evidence in Court doctors
Milford, Purcell, M‘Donogh, and Harman
Tarrant—these three latter all with more or less
of a brogue; on the other, with a burr, Drs.
Rennie, Jamieson, Wilson, and Stuart.
Cr. Buxton, of Melbourne City Coyncil,
has aroused the loyal disgust of his fatted con-
freres by objecting to the expenditure of £8 of
public money on a congratulatory cablegram to
the Duke of York on the occasion of his wedding,
and absurdly remarking that the money might
have been better spent in providing food for the
destitute people of Melbourne. If Melb. Council
cuts wages a little lower it may be able to afford to
send an eight-pound cable every time a great-
grandchild is born to Queen Victoria.
Dear Bulletin, —Premier Kingston (S. A.)
is right in concluding that the N.S.W. Anti-
Chinese laws are laxly administered. Contraband
Chinese have freely entered N.S.W, between
Albury (Vic.) and Corowa (N.S.W.); probably,
over 200 within the last half-year. Contraband
commodities also come in with small hindrance.
Parcels, cases, fruit, and all kinds of merchandise
enter Corowa from Victoria without payment of
duty; people who do pay their legal "dues are
badly handicapped. The Corowa Custom House
is situated a little way up the main street; tons of
goods come along the river-bank road which
branches off the bridge-road before the main street
is reached. Some of the N.S.W. border officials,
both Customs and police, have farms of their own,
which occupy much of their time and attention. —
Yours, Reconstruction, Corowa (N.S.W.)
Speaking of the late battle in Samoa, and
the massacre which followed, and the collecting of
human heads as trophies—several dozen of these,
including the heads of young girls, were brought
as trophies—the Age’s correspondent writes :
When one reflects that no Samoan rises in the morning
without taking part in morning prayers, never retires at
night without the same ceremony, that the name of God
is invoked over every meal, that all vie with one another
in subscribing to the missionary hat, that even the blood-
stained wretches who murdered the wounded men at
Vailele as they lay in their helpless agony are probably
communicants and know 10 times more of the Bible
than most educated Englisl men, the reflective man will
ask himself, “ What is the good of it all ?” If this vast
piety mill, which has been grinding away men, women,
and money for 60 years has not altered one of the tew
barbarous practices of these people, it is confessedly a
failure.
Queen Victoria’s silvery voice, which of
yore reduced Bosisto, C.M.G., to a lump of loyal
pulp, has mesmerised Mrs. L. L. Smith rather
badly. Mrs. L. L. came back to Melbourne the
other day (accompanied by the daughter who pre-
sented flowers to Princess May) and gave her
impressions of the Royal Family to a Standard
reporteress. There was a far-away look in Mrs.
L. L.’s eyes as she described the beautiful spec-
tacle of the Queen with “ her great sons grouped
around her,” and the wonderful music of the royal
voice. “I thought I had never heard a more
silvery voice,” said Mrs, L. L. to the gasping lady
engaged in taking notes. Mrs. L. L. was evi-
dently transported back to London for the moment.
Once more she found herself in the Himperial
Hinstitute, and again she trembled in every limb.
Poor Mrs. L. L. Smith ! the Doctor ought not to
have let her see and hear the Gracious Empress
surrounded by her “great sons.” The shock to
her system was such that she lost all idea of
measurements right away. The Queen’s sons are
not great. Tummy is a short, fat man. Edin-
burgh is a fat man of sft. and Connaught is
sft. Bin., or so. But with rest and quiet Mrs. S.
may yet recover.
Speaking for “the great N.S.W. Freetrade
party,” Parkes’s latest announcement is that he
does not believe in sweeping away the Customs
house altogether, but is prepared to put an equit-
able tax on all land, though not such as to check
industry. This leaves immense scope for the
ancient trimmer. He isn’t prepared to sweep
away the Customs houses, therefore he reserves
the right to fix up any kind of alleged revenue
tariff which he may feel inclined to impose. He
also reserves the right to decide what is an
“equitable” land-tax, and it may be anything
down to one penny per .£lOOO. And he further
reserves the right to decide what kind of industry
is not to be checked. Probably he means the
great industry of holding the land for a rise, and
blocking settlement, and getting private roads
made at the public cost. Also he reserves the
right to call himself a Freetrader, and yet collect
as much money through the customs as is done by
See, the declared Protectionist—in fact he is going
to be a Single-tax Pro-trade Ereeteotionist, and
get all the advantages he can out of three policies
at once.


y/~z —
m
>'lkU
Go to HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretl.v .Stamps. Wo
Soil (ho Set of l l, unused, for Is. (Id.
lllusti.alcd I’iioo List of and
Ausl rnlasiui! Sltimps, post tree and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN Si CO,,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.VV.
ADC MAB
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout,
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIYEN ESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASE, and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedies of
the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and re-
nown. Lids is the greatest proof of their merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine articles, as regret and disappointment arc
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “ All-
fading’’ remedies so freely advertised. The
reputation and wide-spread use of Clements
lomc and 1 letcher’s Pills are the greatest proofs
of their appreciation by the public. If they were
not as represented they would have passed out of
memory long ere this; but instead their sale is
greater and they are more esteemed day by day
and week by week, and tins emphatically proves
their undisputed supremacy. Listen to no argu-
ment from interested parties; demand the genuine
articles and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
3 c utsdi-JUr stra I i o'ch c ;j jmi
Lrsohcinfc jcden Sonnabend in Sydney. Prcii aa'.
7m liabeii boi alien Zeitungs-Agenten.
Abonnement 10 sli. jahrlich direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing Office, 20 Hunter Str., Sydney.
Personal Items.
Phil May is back in London from America,
and the Japan trip has been postponed.
Of the 16 Labour-members in Queens-
land Parliament, ten are strict teetotallers.
The present arch-reviewer of the S.M.
Herald is understood to be a denizen of Govern-
ment House.
“Up to date Maoriland has been so
fortunate as never to have produced a millionaire,”
writes a correspondent.
A well-known athlete, employed in a bank,
is under suspension in connection with a little
matter of .£(1000 or so.
I hey have also a Rev. Mr. Gillies in Mel-
He is very particular about having the
Rev.” before his name.
Someone hints that it would be graceful to
once more offer the post of Vie. Parliamentary
Librarian to James Smith.
N.S.W. ex-Chief Justice Alfred Stephen
entered upon his 92nd year last Sunday, and
received the congratulations of many friends.
_ Gov. Kintore celebrated his
birthday on Aug. 12, and the twentieth anniver'
sary of his wedding on the following Monday.
On dit that Max O’Rell sent to England,
just before the smash, a large portion of his gains
in the shape of E.S. and A.C. bank-drafts. Alas !
The Brisbane Telegraph and the Aus-
tralian Star (Sydney) are managerially directed
by two cousins, Messrs. G. and M. 0. Cowlishaw.
_ Mayor W illcox, who in private life is very
pious, took dancing-lessons so as to fit him for the
onerous work of opening his ball at Adelaide this
month.
A queer but not uncommon story is being
told in London about young Leigh, who not long
ago visited Sydney in his yacht, the White
Heather.
The 139th cousin of Confucius has been
discovered buried in a common cemetery near
Cooktown. The body is to be resurrected and
sent to China.
H. Tennant Donaldson, Premier Dibbs’
new private sec., claims to be a nephew of Stuart
Alexander Donaldson, first Premier of N.S.W.
under responsible government.
Abdul Wade, an Afghan hawker, has just
paid off the debt of .£360 on the Mahomedan
mosque in Adelaide, to preserve it from the paws
of an importunate Christian creditor.
Of the sixteen and a-half million acres of
alienated land in Victoria, W. J. Clarke owns
some 178,000 acres. About a hundred other men
own from 10,000 to 100,000 acres each. ! !
_ Since Todd, S.A. Postmaster-General, got'
his bauble, certain politicians have beeriseeking
occasion to slay him. Should lie be retrenched, he
can put it all down to his knighthood.'
Ex-N.S.W. Judge M'Farland has gone to
Norfolk Island. Anybody who knows Norfolk
Island and also knows ex-Judge MTarland will
perceive much humour in the Situation.
London Figaro says that the Rosebery-
Princess Maud marriage takes place next year, and
Rosebery will then, as befits a near connection of
Royalty, retire from active political life.
The explorer Meston is hard at Avork on
an original romance, which he calls “Geography
of Queensland.” More probably geography of
Meston, with a little Queensland thrown in.
The oldest N.S.W. solicitor (save one, Mr.
B. C. Rodd) has just died, in the person of Hugh
John Chambers, ivho was admitted in 1838. Mr.
Rodd’s year was 1835, and Mr. Burton Bradley’s
1840. 3
David Blair and James Smith seem to
spend the greater part of their time lying low for
the wretch who makes a faulty quotation or a
wrong allusion in a Melbourne paper or on a local
platform.
Adelaide newspaper “error”: “ This
church, which has got into low Avater, is now
experiencing the able help of the Rev. Roby
Fletcher, who seems to have griped the people
Avith his oratory.”
An ex-Broken Hill chimney-sweep, Avork-
ing on tribute at the White Cliffs (N.S. W.) opal
fields, recently happened on a pocket of gems
which panned out =£36,000. The finder’s share,
amounted to <£lB,ooo. ‘ •
N.S.W. ex-Judge Manning’s most cogent
deliverance from the Bench was, in the estimation
of his brother Judges, the speech he addressed to
the jury in a memorable murder case : “Gentle-
men, don’t go to sleep.”
Angelo Palmer, the funny attorney, who
appeared for both plaintiff and defendant in a
Victorian provincial ease, and argued the suit out
between himself, is brother of Heller, the conjuror.
Legerdemain in the family.
If Matthew Davies had the courage of an
astral mouse he’d “ chuck ” his cower’d pals in the
Assembly and voluntarily prosecute himself. He’d
get off, and might reconstruct some of his 30 odd
companies on the prestige.
Captain Jorgenson, the adventurous Scan-
dinavian who journeyed from England to Aus-
tralia in the lifeboat invented by himself, and
who afterwards went farming, ip now a first mate
in Huddart, Parker and Co.’s service.
Argus : “ One of the secrets of the Duchess
of York’s success is that she is a severe moralist
and reads her Bible daily.” Anomalous attributes!
The Argus continues : “ She used to look sharply
after her brothers, too.” Alas ! poor York !
The Argus social London correspondent
recalls the aristocratic Holt White, to whom a
Democratic journalist: “You are a most power-
ful Radical agent, for you are always telling US
about the filthy doings of your high-toned friends.”
Justice Stephen’s late conduct on the
N.S.W. Bench rc the sensational clamour against
the Miller’s Point accused, couples him with Jus-
tice Dodds, of Tasmania, whose pol icy is over to
stand between the prisoner and popular excite-
ment.
The Vic. Fall Court avrs recently peli*
tinned to set aside the will of Robert Huddle,
whose “relict” has long enjoyed possession
of his property. Why, widow Hoddle married
a young’ fellow named Buxton more than
10 years ago !
Ninian Melville, N.S.W. Chairman of
Committees, is in his 50th year. We mention
this to contradict one of Parkes’ border stories,
wherein he states that, on his arrival in Australia,
he heard Ninian arguing for Protection from a
stump at Circular Quay.
The “ Yag,” ;
. aln as proud of my companion, James Hamson,
tamer of the Victorian press, as I was of Malietoa and
lataafa when I escorted them through the streets of Apia
tom years ago, in days before Robert Louis Stevenson
wrote of me as “ the man in the bar-room." I forgive
him for Father Damien’s sake.
1 lie death-roll of old Yorickers in Mel-
bourne has run up since boom-days—“ Old Man
Keiley,’ ‘‘Dear Old Bond,” “Good Old Chap-
man “Old Zerbini,” “Poor Willie Hearn.”
Kach man of these a big man in his place, and
that place anywhere in the world.
London gossip asserts that York was really
mairied to the Malta girl and there are two
children by the marriage. Also, that the mor-
ganatic wife is in London and is identical with the
nameless beautiful lady” who has been the
mystery of State circles for some time, past.
A new poet seems a desideratum on the
Australasian. Thus stands the epitaph on the,
tomb of the late sporting editor, “Augur ” Chap-
man :
L ond husband, kind father, Christian sincere.
Faithfully mourned by those he’s left here.
Honniker Heaton, we read, has “com-
piled a collection of all the cartoons, squibs,
satirical verses, caricatures, abuse, ridicule, and
anonymous letters with which lie has been visited,
that is, so far as they have come under his notice.”
A cheeky announcement designed to show that he
is above criticism.
Edward Hamley, the real, victor of. Tel-eL
Kebir, and one of the few recent British army
strategists, is dead. His mejnory will live chiefly
as one of the best biographers of Voltaire, and a
tair novelist. His incurable propensity for telling
the truth earned him the, detestation of many
military self-ad vertising quacks.
Sam Banks, printer, poet, and amateur
acter, once played fago with the Garrick Club in
the old Melbourne Royal, when. Barry Sullivan
was lessee. Sam met Sullivan between the acts,
and said, Well, I’m not doing so bad, ami?”
Sullivan, who never had a word of praise for any
actor amateur or pro., replied : “ Well, you see, I
don t know how bad you can be.”
Antoinette Sterling was very thorough*
Asked one day about drink, she said: “I don’t
mind teJhng yon in striflji confidence that if I did
drink, I am afraid that I should do it, like every-
thing els 6, with all my heart.” And then ! Is any
amongst us vast enough to grasp the idea of
Antoinette having drunk with all her heart,
singing With all her soul?
\ Three months
efore the Duke of
Kent (the Queen’s
father) died, a
vessel named so
was lost; a ship,
The Albert, foun-
dered with all
hands three
months before the
Prince Consort
shuffled off; and
four months be-
fore tjie decease of
Queen Victoria’s
second daughter,
Princess Alice,
the memorable
Princess Alice
d isaster took place
on the Thames.
Now, the Medi-
terranean blunder
—will Tummy be
King of England
before the begin-
ning of 1894?
Ferguson, one
of the released
Broken Hill “con-
spirators” (re-
leased from prison
because of the
York-Teck wed-
ding), lowered
York down a
mine when, as
Prince George, he
visited Australia.
At the time, says
Ferguson, he
thought it really
didn’t much
matter whether he
drew the young
man up or not;
but he has since
changed his
opinion.
Apothecary £. £. Smith’s adventures in
England seem to have been even iiiore extraor-
dinary than EitzGjbbon’s. Smith told an awe-
stricken crowd of M.L. A.s that Carington actually
introduced him to the Prince of Wales as the
“ Honourable ” L. L. Smith, a compliment that
had never been paidsto a colonial member of Par-
liament iii England, (Great cheers.) In future
any member of the Legislature was entitled to be
caljed “Honourable.” (Renewed cheers.)
Bobert Harper, M.L.A., the Yi6. National
Ass driver, is a Presbyterian with the fatal Metho-
dist beard. You know the kind of beard. It
adorns the unwholesome face of the street preacher,
and figures prominently at,Y.M.O.A. meetings.
It is straight, stiff, and of medium length. The
Pharisee of old had it badly. It seems not so
much to be growing from the. face as stuck into it.
A meek, but unforgiving, beard. An absolutely
humourless hirsute appendage. A hallelujah
growth of hair, and an infallible index to the
character of the man.
Ex-Premier Shiels (Vic.) always carries in
his pocket a few pilules of some preparation, for
alleviating hoarseness, and uses them in. the
course of his speeches. The other day, Treasurer
Carter slanged Shiels and. his finances and. his,-
policy and everything connected with him till his,
voice began to collapse, and then his enemy
stepped across the floor and handed him a,few. of
the pilules to keep him going.
Ex-Attorney-General Homburg recently
protested in S.A. Assembly against the Judges
having half guinea dinners on circuit. A few
days later, a return was laid before Parliament
which showed that the Playford Cabinet, of which
economist Homburg was a member, indulged in a
repast which cost 13s. 2d. per head. Homburg,
when this was published, requested the first man
he met to please kick him—kick him hard.
Professor Abel, the chemist to- the British
War Office, concerning whose connection with the
new explosive “cordite” unpleasant things are,
the eableman tells us, being said, is one of “the
South Kensington Gang,” and secretary-of the-
Imperial Institute. He is a capable chemist, and;
the inventor of the electric fuse. His name was •
freely used in connection with the Ordnance
select committee scandals of several years ago.
That accomplished amateur pug., e * Jack ”
Hamilton, member for Cook (N.Q.), was, during
his last visit to Victoria, knocked out in one
rqund. He was sleeping at, a Bendigo hotel and,
finding the air oppressive, got up and opened the.
window The heat seemed to grow-. worse, pot-e
withstanding, so Jack rushed to the. opening to
thrust his head put, but only butted a brick wall,
that had been built up on the other side since his,
last visit.
Lady Jersey, according to a London, paper,
was kissed on the right, cheek by the Queen, the,
other day._ H.M., however, was surprised to see
Lady J. “ immediately wipe tfie royal kiss away.”
The Bulletin entirely sympathies with Lady
Jersey in her inability to conceal her dislike to
being kissed by one of her own sex.- Apropos,
after the Royal splicing Albert Edward gushingly
kissed his son on both cheeks. Gorman instincts
always uppermost!
“Informations” from Fame (London):
The “pioneer” woman, journalist of Australia is Miss
Murphy, the accomplished lady who edits the Melbourne
Punch, and is one of the belles of the colony. She is an
enthusiastic believer in the rights and capacities of her
sex, and has certainly good ground for the faith that is in
her, seeing that her own enviable position as controller of
by far the best of the numerous antipodean comic journals
has been attained step by step, in virtue solely of her own
wit and ability, and in free competition with aspirants of
the stronger sex.
“ Pioneer woman journalist ” is excellent.
Hugh John Chambers, solicitor, who died
last week, arrived in Sydney in 1838, but took up
his residence in Melbourne in 18fl9, and for many
years held a leading professional position there.
He was the intimate associate of all the most cele-
brated members of the marvellously brilliant Vic-
torian Bar of the early and. middle. Fifties—
POST-MORTEM ITEM.
SCENE. —Back-blocks Hospital.
VISITOR: “You’re a long time bad, Jim.”
PATIENT : “Yes, I am, Bill. I don’t think this yer doctor’s much chop.”
VISITOR : “’E is, though. My word! ’E’s a tradesman, Jim, take it from me,,
old man, ’e’s a tradesman.”
PATIENT : “’Owd’ye know, Bill?”
VISITOR: “My missus died up here. Summat wrong with ’er innards. The
debtor ’e’eld a post mortar on ’er. an’ I, was lookin’ in through the
winder. Look yer, the way ’e out up that old woman was some-
thin’ beautiful. Oh, ’e’s a tradesman right, enough!”
Dawson, Ireland, Aspinall, Sewell, Hartley,
Michie, Gray, Molesworth, Barry. When again
shall Australia look upon such a constellation of
advocates I Mr. Chambers, who had long been out
of the running, died poor—as poor as are the pre-
sent times when compared with the golden days
of 1852. J
The fact that M‘Donald, J.P., of Melb.—
who made the hair of the aggregate
lat Man stand on end by refusing to discharge
Matthew Davies—died of cancer in the stomach
seems to be accepted without a shadow of ques-
tion, and no one even hints that he was secretly
poisoned by friends of the Mercantile Bank
directors, or otherwise made away with. And yet
had M‘Donald been Whippingdale Johnson and
his sudden death had taken place when the
Broken Hill strike was in full blast, circumstances
would inevitably have “pointed ” to foul play on
the part of some one among the miners. It is
impossible for the humblest representative of
“law’norder ” to get a bilious attack at a time of
general trouble without a lying tale about how a
stryehnined apple was given him by a unionist
shearer being instantly telegraphed all over
Australia.
“ Charlie” Gox, -who applied last week to
Panton, P.M., for criminal summonses against
certain of the authorities of the Mercantile Bank,
was, 20 ■ years ago, law-reporter on the Age. He
afterwards became a hide-merchant, and found
that “ pelts ” paid better than pars. Then he
went into partnership as a financial agent with
John Macdonald, who, a quarter of a century ago,
was manager of the Age.
MR. C. HUENERBEIN
Charles Huenerbein (whose portrait is :
given on this page) ps an Australian musical
product. His e-ducation and training were con-
fined to Australia, which has developed him into
a master of his art. Huenerbein 1 has been a
resident of Sydney for 18 years, during which time
his name has been prominently associated with
most leading musical events. As a. skilled and '
delicate accompanist he has been.honoured with
the congratulations of many brilliant vocalists.
Ever responsive to the call of charity, he has ’
piloted benevolent effort to many a “bumper”
house, a result which ought to befal likewise the
Sydney Town Hall concert to' be tendered him '
next and in, aid of which all the local :
artists have volunteered their services.
The Adelaide (S.A.) Joker who forged
orders and sent grateful tradesmen to Treasurer 1
Play ford with deliveries of oxrtoiigues, rounds of 1
beef, tins.of biscuits, jams and jellies, a double '
perambujator, a sack of potatoes, a plough, and a '
coffin,, missed bis main point, which should have
been an. assortment of No. 12 boots, Playford 1
being credited with possessing the largest feet 1
in all Australia. Eor a l(i-st. man, Playford’s -
wrath has been merely mousey.
Gov. Hopetoun (Vic.) must spend at least 1
£5OO a year in flunkeys’ breeches, whereof full 40 1
pair blaze about the salons on a grand fete-night,
but he never yet spent one poor five-pound note in 1
the encouragement of Australian art in Victoria.
This is, or may be, Scotch, but it is not after the
manner of the Medicis. Gov. Loch, a poor man,
but with brains enough for a whole clan of Hope
touns,. never let an exhibition pass without glad-
dening some poor artist’s heart by exchanging a ’
few pounds for a picture.
Christie Murray had a story somewhat ‘
against his own elan. It was of the “Glasgee
body ” who, asked about his bairns, said Geordie
and Jock were doing weel—one “ wi’a writer,”
t other in trade, ‘“but Jamie! God guide puir 1
Jamie he’s up the toon, an’ he’s doun the toon, ■
he’s oot an! aboot, a drinkin’ an’ swearin’ an’
roarin’ an’ teariu’, jisjb for a’ the world like a
journalist.” Too true, alas ! but yet not all true.
Look at old Charlie Bright now, going about
Sydney like a granite tower with a silver crown.
i,lprty years ago, Charley was editor of the
Australasian, with the certainty of editing the
Argus on some near day. Dear friend of all the
f«air, moreover, and best after-dinner speaker of
the time. See him later on . a polemical lecturer,
slating all humbug. Next, settled down, chief ■
leader-writer of the Age, and on the easiest of
terms with David.” And now, beginning life
anew at a big salary, as confidential adviser and 1
high-class lecturer to the Mutual Life Assurance
Society of New York.
Will any competent author ever write a
history of the progress of art, as applied to public
advertising? The genius exhibited in this field is
strikingly exemplified by the elegant art-creations
seen posted conspicuously around Sydney illus-
trative of the .sedative, yet exhilarating, delights
of “Frpssard’s, Swiss Cigars,” now so deservedly
popular with all sorts and conditions of smokers.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(PORTRAIT PHOTOatiAPHKKS)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
“■“Messrs. CH ARLEMONT study to keep them-
selves abreast with the various new and beauti-
ful processes in photography.”
WILL YOU BE WISE?
OR FOOLHARDY?
SUCH SYMPTOMS AS
HEADACHE,
BACKACHE,
SLEEPINESS,
INDIGESTION, &c.,
INDICATE A DISORDERED LIVER.
CLEMENTS TONIC IS A
PROMPT AND POSITIVE CURE.
CLEMENTS TONIC DOES NQT
TREAT SYMPTOMS, IT
REMOVES THE CAUSE.
FOR PROOF READ THIS
Mrs. H. Sal way, Cobargo, N.S.W., why writei
on April ID, 1893,:—I have been ,a severe sillier, r
from indigestion for ,a considerable time, loss of
appetite, a continued languid feeling, .exRepi >
weakness; and .restless at night. ,1 had also
advice and attendance of a medical man, Lpt
derived no benefit from either. J was advised to
try Clements Tonic, and the improvement was so
great before J had finished the third bottle that it
.even surprised myself. I can honestly say it did
pie more good than all I had taken hitherto; ip
fact, it performed a cure where all others had
failed. I recommend Clements Topic .to all
sufferers from the above. Wishing you all kinds
of success, ,1 remain, yours gratefidlj', Mrs. H.
Spl way, .Cybargo, N.S.W.
AGRICULTURAL
/IND
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
.STEAM -PUMP?, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES ft BUGGIES’
JJf illmm Fleming,
22 & 21 Clarence Street.
SY3) ' KY.
df
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Bigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,
strata. IVILLIAM
P uEMISG, 22 and 24
Clarence Ct., Sypxet.
dfg
POLITICAL
POINTS
What lias become of the Dibbs testi-
monial?
Duncan Gillies votes steadily against any
f urther action in the Mercantile case.
Queensland has but 255,000 acres under
Cultivation, including the sugar area.
M’Lellart, the Dove of Ararat (Vic.), de-
precates handing the land “ Over to the rabble.”
What a Premier N.S.W. Minister of
justice O’Connor would make were ho only a
Democr, b! . ,
Au Essex (Eng.) freehold agricultural
nutate of 297 acres has just fetched .£sso—about
375. an acre.
A Bill providing for the introduction of
i Ik, Referendum has been introduced into Maori-
-11 i l Parliament;
Henry George,-Iteid-Parkes; IloW does
that look for a compound photograph? Or the
il mo of the next baby ?
Maorilaml has exported to England
£ 1),(.09,000 of gold, an 1 has borrowed from the
same country .£40,000,000—0f notes.
Theo. Fink, Matthew Davies’ attorney,
intends to put up for East Melb., in company
with Zox, at the next general election.
Who is the “ strong man” that is coming
down from N.S.W. Upper House to lead the
party of capitalism in the Assembly ?
The sale of liquor is to be prohibited in all
village settlements in Via, save where an absolute
majority of the inhabitants demand its establish-
ment.
Melb. Age now places side-head indents
in its reports of Parliamentary proceedings, speci-
fying the time when various members address the
House.
An expensive life-size (?) photograph of
G. Republican Dibbs, in his Court uniform, has
Just been executed at N.S.W. Government 1 nut*
ing Office. ,
Some National Ass members of S.A.
Assembly actually opposed Bvooker’s motion
for allowing destitute asylum inmates butter with
their bread !
Premier Kingston was the originator of pay-
ment of members in S.A. Legislature. S.A.
Ms.P. receive <£2oo per annum and a free-pass on
all railways.
Lowe, says the Argus, was a staunch Con-
servative, and it speaks of him as “ the great
fighter of a lost cause.” A lost cause ! This from
the Argus !
Minister for Lands Barlow (Q.) : “These
great colonies were built up long before the cry of
one man-one-vote.” Yea, and so were the moon
and the sun and the stars !
A recent Buudaberg shipping arrival:
Lochiel, nigger-dhow, with 102 male and 5 female
Kanakas. Polyandry, 20 to 1; the surplus pair of
outcasts to be balloted for.
The Kingston land and absentee-tax pro-
posals will, it is predicted, be rejected by S.A.
Legislative Council. The pig-vote, as matters
stand, is in a majority of one.
Yet it moves ! “ What young Australia
demands is Australia for the Australians. We
cannot possibly consent to the creation of a servile
race in Australia.” —The Age.
At a public meeting in Melbourne. Un-
employed orator ; “The chairman reminds me of
the old man and his ass.” Thoughtfully ; “ Not
so much of the old man either.”
After all the Fat Mali talk about the awful
cost of Mercantile Bank prosecutions, it is amus-
ing to find that only <£3ooo has been fooled away
in not prosecuting Davies up to date,
“ Hou.” H. Finch-Hatton, in the Fort-
Nightly, courteously speaks of N.S.W. Govern-
ment as a body of men “possessing the intellect
of a turnip and the manners of a pig that roots it
up.”
Political mouthers fond of quoting Adam
Smith’s “ Wealth of Nations ” might advan-
tageously peruse his other work —“ Theory of the
Moral Sentiments,” and readjust some of their
ideas.
It turns out now that, during a dispute
between ex-P.M.G. Unmack and the Q. tele-
graphers, an attempt was made by Govt, to
arrange for the introduction of Japanese operators,
in the event of a strike.
Again Brisbane Worker changes editors.
The Labour movement in Queensland now con-
sists of three factions, the Parliamentary, the
Worker, and the A.L.F. Perhaps Champion
wasn’t so far out after all.
Joseph Creer, head of Sydney Labour
Bureau, attributes his success in life to the fact
that he never touches liquor. Where would the
success (such as it is) have been had he not been a
good party politician?
Corney Proud, a Socialistic stock-broker,
who was once a journalist, and Medway Day, a
journalist who was once a Baptist parson, are both
mentioned as likely candidates for S.A. Legisla-
tive Council at next election. Little Cohen, a
Radical “ banker,” also stands, hqping to win the
Labour vote.
Jos. Symes fetches his Liberator, into
practical politics, with a daring charge against
the Ring. Farkas, demised, was one of the Davies
Grand Jury. Symes says Farkas told him how
the Ring tried to get at him.
“ Every honest mail must decide whether
lie will be on the side of Property or humanity, on
the side of Oppression or Righteousness. There
is no middle course between the two.”—J; Med-
way Day, in Adelaide Voice.
Ex-shipwright John Watson, M.L. A. (Q.),
would even give every man who owns a buggy or
a yacht a vote for it. If the standard of voting
were “intelligence” instead of “property,”
Watson’s cake would be dough.
Overheard: “I saw one of the now (Q.)
Labour-members going down Queen-street with a
white waistcoat, a heavy gold chain, and sharp-
pointed, new boots. Poor fellow, they pinched
him and ho looked so unhappy !”
What is the political function of the sleek,
insinuating parson ? To inculcate the doctrine of
non-resistancCj and to blasphemously saddle On an
innocent God the disasters brought about by
swindling politicians and directors.
Just so ! A London scribbler says (in the
Age)
Amongst the rumours enrvent in the city on colonial
topics one is fiat a proposal may shortly lie made by a
syndicate to lease the Victorian railways.
Teetotal-lecturer T. W. Glover’s hysterical
cry, “Shut up the hotels first,” shows the ex-
tremity of the intellectual delirium which is
brought about by sympathetic association with the
political cold-water cranks of the day.
Melbourne imports have doc ined from
about seven and a half millions during the first
half of 1891 to a little less than four millions in
the first half of 1893. The stoppage of the influx
of borrowed money accounts for the difference.
Can it be true that N.S.W. Speaker
Abbott applies for a “ lease ” of Parramatta Park,
as a recreation ground for the “well-connected”
youths of the King’s Scdiool? The park is already
a public recreation ground ; wherefore, in the eyes
of some people, the King's scholars are no part of
“the public,” but a peculiar seed —a private rein-
n mt.
There should now
be a Federal Conven-
tion of Labour mem-
bers.
Parkes’ adoption
of the plebiscite prin-
ciple in re payment of
members establishes,
lie admits, a prece-
dent which he will be
bound to follow in a
number of other dis-
puted questions. The
election of an Upper
1 louse, .the election of
a Governor—in fact,
any question which
can be clearly stated
so as to elicit a “Yes”
or “ No ” he considers
competent for settle-
ment, for an agreed-
on time, on the basis
of a plebiscite vote.
In conversation re-
cently, local matters
brought up the pro-
blem of capital punish-
ment, and the Swiss
practice of sanction-
ing or annulling a
death-sentence by ple-
biscite of the canton
was cited, but this the
old man thought both
clumsy and danger-
ous. He protests that
he is opposed to capi-
tal punishment for
murder, and only
voted for it because
N. S.W. Parliament
had, despite his oppo-
sition, made rape a
capital offence ; but
argues that instead of
a plebiscite as to the
infliction of the
penalty in particular
cases, such a vote
might, with advan-
tage, be taken as to
the retention of the
death penalty on the
•Statute-book.
These Bombay Hindoo v. Mahometan
fights give us the key of the Britisli hold on India.
It would be impossible, but for the stupid reli-
gious squabbles of the 150 million Hindoos v. the
40 million Mahometans. Divide and conquer.
The abortive grand jury.proceedings in the
Mercantile case cost <£lBs(i. Several Stock
Exchange men have agreed to bear part costs of
the new proceedings, which are to be kept quite
free from any interference on the part of the
Crown.
A report of a N.S.W., political committee
meeting, held with closed doors, was recently sup-
plied to a newspaper by one of the members who
set himself down as “ the only man at the meet-
ing whose opinions were really commonsense and
practical.”
Six Democratic members voted for Tren-
with’s motion, for giving leases only under the new
Land Settlement Bill, in Vic. Parliament last week.
Yet Parliament in Victoria is called a representa-
itive institution. It is but a speaking representa-
tion of the Ass.
The general impression is that Goy.
Kintore will stay on in Adelaide to the end of
1894. This is the Colonial Office method of avoid-
ing an encounter with Premier Kingston over the
proposed extended appointment of Chief Justice
Way as Lieutenant-Governor.
Magnificent isJP.'po Loo’s bulletin to the
French just on the eve of the election. The
b'tter drop in the cup, though, is the Pope’s
hatred of Italy. Surely his Republicanism, in
,r ;gard to the U.S and France, must tell on Italy,
Belgium, Spain—even Russia.
In an unguarded spasm of rage, the Sydney
bogus -Free trade press lias suddenly repudiated
th i Single-tax ; whereas it has been apparent all
along to everybody but the Single-taxers them-
selves, that the “Freetraders” have been using
the Single-taxers as an organised catspaw.
Yale, the Ballarat M.L.A., says he has
been told the exact amount of capital expended in
procuring the “alien” fiasco ending of the true
bill against Davies and Millidge. Yale also was
given to understand that “a go-between got the
bulk of the money.” Who found the cash, who
went between, and how was it worked?
Melb. Herald, issued on the day following
the discussion in Parliament of the Mercantile
Bank prosecution fracas, carefully omitted all
reference to the previous night’s debate, and ex-
cluded “ The Silent Member’s ” political column.
The Matthew Davies Grand Jury case
stands about thus, according to Chief Justice
Maddeids version of the law : Putting an alietl otr
the jury vitiated the proceedings. Yet he had to
be put on because leaving him out would have
vitiated the proceedings. Therefore -
Payment of members is the thing, the
only thing, to fight for at next N.S.W. general
election. Adherence to tire principle is the test ot
Democracy. He who would pay members would
tax land-values. lie who would abolish payment
would abolish manhood suffrage if he could.
S.A. Premier Kingston will probably know
how to deal witli the audacious proposition of
Win" Cheong Sing, tailor and storekeeper,
Palmerston (N.T.), that he (W. C. Sing), on pur-
chasing 3000 acres of land, may be permitted to
indent 200 Chinese labourers, free of poll-tax !
What a clever man Shakespeare was ! He
even foresaw “ Henry George ” Reid :
Get thee glass eyes ;
And, like a scurvy politician, seem
To see the things thou dost not.
—King Lear iv., 5.
Premier Kingston means to force S.A.
Legislative Council to pass the radical Probate
and Succession Duties Bill. A similar measure
has been rejected by that chamber twice, and a
third offence places them at the mercy of the
Government. And with the Land Values Assess-
ment Bill.
The liquor-bill of England for last year
was £3 10s. 10d. per head of the population : of
Scotland, £3 3s. Jit; Ireland, £2 ss. Id. ; Tas-
mania, £3 os. od. ; South Australia, £3 2s. 10d.;
Maoriland. £3 2s. lOd. ; N.S.W., £4 os. 10d. ;
Queensland, £4os. lid.; Victoria, £4l4s. Od.; and
West A nstralia, £7 12s. lOd. Considering that
the price of liquor in Australasia is just about
twice as much as in Britain, the inference is that
11 io average thirst of England—the most drunken
section of the British Isles—is almost twice as
great as the standard individual drought of these
provinces.
A CHEERFUL BRIDAL-TOUR.
HIS BRIDE NO. 2: “Oh, Mr.—that is, Henry-there’s something awful
cold at my foot!”
EX-WIDOWER: “Oh, it’s all right, my dear, it’s only my first wife’s head-
stone. I thought I might as well bring it along as make
another trip for it.”
Payment of members has not been a
brilliant success in Victoria. But, O, yc gods and
Matthew Davies, what would non-payment of
members have brought the country to by this
time? Larkin and -Taylor would be forming a
coalition Ministry, whilst every newspaper editor
languished in gaol.
Ripon’s despatch conceding the title
“ Honourable ” to Australians in certain condi-
tions as in its phrasing the same as Knutsford’-a on
the same subject, only that the latter contained
“nets” where the former is affirmative. Ilipon
(or his clerk) appears to have written with the
other despatch under his eye.
Every Victorian should cut out the list of
M.’sP. who voted against,(or were 11 unavoidably ”
absent from the division upon) Murray’s funend-
ment—That the Mercantile (Bank .prosecutions
demand the fullest inquiry ’’—and carefully paste
it in his hat. (It was a veritable dividing qf the
sheep from the goats, and it is a melancholy refloc-
jtiou that'the majority qf the Vjc. Parliament are
goats— t rank, fat “(Billies.”
Treasurer Nelson ((%), who was particeps
criminie in the deed and therefore knows what he
is talking about, confesses that ex-Premier Chief
Justice Griffith .reduced t the salaries of Ms.P. by
one-half in order .to keep out labour-members.
Jack Hamilton, who baa moVed to restore.tins old
ratq, is perhaps the .only MTlwrajthiaii .member
who could consistently have dared to openly take
the initiative for the coveted rise.
A tip for Premier Dibbs. Let him obtain
from Collector of Customs Powell all particulars
of the case of .the politician who not sp long ago
literally went down on his knees and begged
Powell not to have him prosecuted for defrauding
the revenue. A full statement in Parliament
concerning this matter would do a heap of good
and relieve the democratic cause from one of its
most noxious and persistent parasites.
Panton, P.M., refused to issue a criminal
summons in the Mercantile Bank case on the
grounds that the defendants had been harassed
and that the country had been put to enough
expense. This, notwithstanding that prosecutor
Cox was prepared to pay all expenses. As a
matter of law, The Bulletin believes that.Panton
had no option but to issue the summons, and mi
application the Supreme Court would compel him
to do so.
The referendum is coming ; already politi-
cians find it a convenient means of dodging awk-
ward conundrums. Parkes wants to leave the
payment of members question to a plebiscite, and
every knock-kneed Parliamentarian is following in
his wake. Presently the average member Won’t
be solid about anything except that lie wafats a
bridge over the local creek, and will be perfectly
willing to leave everything else to the referendum.
Maoriland Minister for Labolir fathers a
Bill to prevent shipowners infringing the ship-
ping laws in strike times; to abolish the im-
prisoning and fining of seamen leaving their ships
because of a strike; to discourage the small credit
system by prohibiting the recovery of any sum
under £lO for goods supplied on retail credit ;
to abolish distraint for rent; and to abolish im-
prisonment for debt under the disguise of “ con-
tempt of court.”
The S.A. Legislative Councillors who re-
tire in April next are Millionaire Angas, ex-
Chief Secretary Copley, Krichauff (who sat in the
first Assembly under Constitutional Government,
and even then advocated payment of members),
Manufacturer Martin, newspaper-editor O’Logh-
lin, Simpson (who every year has given his .£2OO
salary to the S.A. military-forces for shooting-
money), pensioned bank-manager Tomkinson, and
squatter Warren.
The row between the N.S.W. “Free-
traders’’and Single-taxers is a very pretty quarrel
as it stands. The Single-taxer is a freetrader
who is in earnest; the “Freetrader” is a person
who years ago put duties on butter and bacon, and
to-day would not dare remove the N.S.W. duty
on imported corn, which has so stimulated agi n
culture without raising the price of bread. The
Protectionists are far more in earnest about taxing
the land than are Parkes, Reid & Co,
Ambrose Bierce, on Upper House poli-
ticians
If it is impossible to procure an amendment to the
Constitution, making all high office hereditary or devis-
able, it should at least be provided that at the death of a
member of the Upper House no question of succession
should mar the uneventful insignificur.ee of the transition.
There is no reason under heaven why the corpse should
not continue in office.
For that matter, is there any reason under heaven
why the corpse shouldn’t have held the office ail
along ?
A gorgeous free fight, at Bundaberg (Q.)
by 20d Kanakas armed with bows, spears and guns,
is another of the recent blessings of cheap and
reliable labour. A large number of niggers were
wounded, and one islander, who fell over a root in
his retreat, had his head stove in with boulders.
When the cheap and reliable Kanaka becomes a
little more numerous he will sack Bundaberg some
Sunday afternoon, and bang the head of the local
capitalist against his own doorstep, and behead
the Polynesian inspector and the magistrate with
a wood-axe.
In England the candidates for Parliament
jointly pay the cost of the electoral contest in
which they engage. Here the State pays the cost
of the election, and the candidate his own personal
expenses. Should State payment of members bo
abolished, what is to prevent the abolishers from
abolishing State payment of election expenses? Jt
is a faetthatat thelastelectionforMiddlesborough,
where j. H. Wilson, Labour candidate, defeated
Robson, Q.C., carpet-bag Gladstonian lawyer,
Wilson’s expenses amounted to £6OO. This was
merely for the privilege of becoming a candidate 1
We are better off here, but for how long if the
ocher is repealed ?
Dear Bulletin,-— How is it that the pro-
moters of the new N.S.W. Democratic daily cou.’cl
not hit upon a better name than Daily Post :
The word Post has about it a Conservative ring,
for is not the most nauseous organ of Toryism in
Loudon the Morning Post? Surely some title
more suitable and significant might have been
chosen, such as the Australian Citizen, orsimi Jy
the Citizen ? Such a cognomen would be pi\ -
phetic of the coming Commonwealth jpf imb pen
dent Australia, and is no new term for a pai 11 .
It js not too late to change the title ,of tin: pro-
posed daily, “ What’s in a name ?” Well!
everything in the case of such a new departure
Augur.


The report that Chinese cross the southern
oirdor from Victoria into N«\y South Wales,
and disperse at road stations on the Culcairn-
Corowa railway, is confirmed.
N-S'-W I V'ICTOfM
t v*
<v
4^
ShA;f
JlLt>s 15 busj) btulcli93 a boa.r a t a Fiai?*" jirefjar-
aTon/ To $ Trip Up saLt Ki/er. "
Apropos of Mr.
Rise's speech—"lf
there is one thing that -
is gratifying and should '
»e are in tb» right, it I
is that. young men of
Ability and energy to
the **ns* of tree
liberty and yopalar
Gorernaient.”
j>otj
Tronj lash freeffs
Sir Henry said: "I tm in favor of a tax
on land, bnt' only as forming part of an
equitable system of taxation. I don’t be-
lieve in sweeping away the Custom-houae.’’
Mr. Wise says: “I don’t know that the
programme of tho party-could bo'better
described than in these words.”
{9 a y<l ~Jwr-6a/rexL^poy
*0
/V//
s& •p'”
//*• y
TO"
v/
tr
vVO
.
„ Vjf ' oN°
Vi
r /s C
If P s-
sa«»'j 3 '
" £ f
" S' 2 a
o’ (v 2-
s a ■< S
» 3 s r \
»• « | §• **
e lP ~£
a.p s. s
co 3 p tl *-*»
\
C? lo 3.*
■£■ 2|- <S 3
;<> I *» 5' |
C f f g «
P- =||-E ; g'S
IF OR THE
MEMT
e '* ii al } o "huiUi>t% <v
s I
Qb&dr
UOffty
RULES
N»l
Tifr Police
ju.
Tjy Ciul; ,
London - , Tuesday^Night.—Tho Behring
Sea Arbitration Tribunal hare given their
award, which is generally in favor of
Great Britain.
Tho award limits Russia’s jurisdiction
in t(hc Behring Sea to the distance of i
oatmou shot from the shore.
\Muc(j defw/ds otj
\Cflll a " S
c ' h •
CHIEFLY IN SYDNEY.


,US>t A
XWNK'c
\\ D 1 '
Instead of the costly and occa-
sional operations of the excise, there Blight bs
introduced the continuous and immediate super-
vision of a capable police to check ’drunkenness
before, rather than after, the fact.
itfrath 4rom.<^
ict(e»- "W a. .
* r cjfcUrO
‘fefanal ConstallkllPon'r/-**.
i/unk yoiA-hcCcL letter g/re me. |(
~7/)/s drink ? lad t/i7~ee-
A saving of £15,000 1
might be effected by asking the i
infantry, who are now paid £7 10a. a year per I
man, to serve for nothing, but'it is under-
stood that General Tuljoch is apposed to this i
Step,
Defence.
TYeid,—
6 Will fou. comerct
To he an
7ion.oro.rY hero
J 9 ..
Wa rnor. 'Man/'Cy -fear! s*g/~-gn.
is my |jn'ce aWd j wont she
'Vny
ior<?v johnny* /«$$
KILL
%
uiovw
liSftlE
D^p f „
WANTED, bv young lidy, Bookkeeper for
doctor, will collect., ran messages. Orphan
Argus office.
f V*'
&
Sfefcd-fc
/=3 ci-m it-inq 7f/end. J
iJion-ld scarcely Aa\re Anoujn
yoVLi- dfifth tittle, a]rt aa<x<y.
WSmilC D J '
Ll. Srnh'k /c o rij{ <R e riu<i I] y'} •
"Since, she y> es e ycto cL
‘ft/ncess May u/tfA c*-
of jloKjet-s'
f/i e A. <?. j
nd e r f-u 11 y~
C A an JQ aC ."
V\^
T?er\ Wj'M , A<7. , £7_
07-i /
don't sett tzrxy'm ore
CoOTosn. Land Lease.
/t~ -for yff
yba?-s °
v> f
HZS
<0
k^T
* V K
f h t
n .
C/'t lh atthew ~
%..**• ur
irSiJi'*- “/ 7?r
< aU
DOTTLB V. BOTTLE.
Edward Henry Bottle, of Jeparit, fanner,
sought a dissolution of hia marriage with
Jane Bottle, now of Geelong, op the ground
of adultery and drunkenness
df
/■
f
ft:
*->
£
... ~ '* er ik “7
Davig wmt- Cod is . V
-fhe 'fh-aus' y"« v-
ohsJvc /
is Ise g l "*
'tks'fide.' •
learnecj Judge
\Jbonf~ look at we,
V/h'ilt J'm pa.s'zinf
Yooer nose
janel ck'm remind me.
/So muck o\ four deur
a-'U/vvt' ( a ncl f'oiu'k
y'a ia. v -j- oii \et~ s joreK. e <x cl,
j fklnk 3 muf /entace.
io Knock off 3 momik s jor
ik* bo-lie. Of 'llxart jortkea-d.
A LOOK ROUND MELBOURNE.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Cool yard ie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
,£lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout tin! colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be phased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
rob a sets where renuired.
LADIES.
A Pair of onr Handsome Rnsrrnvwl
A ia lian (i--.1l liar It itOOC -I KS
PoiteU to any a klicss for Stnmp)(any Colony), 2s. 6d.
..1i,.,.. ,t. 4.. QOfi nllndowi T.IUU MRT.ROimNR
WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
llii* jJ7eatVi ciicii S, >. ■<• .a I i -1. No nie'liciin s. llis lirali-u
on “ Woman's Salvation ” sent ITIHH, in close envelope,
upon application by letter (or personally) to 45 Collins
Plane. COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
nm
“Won't be Loppy
until be gets ii. 57
or
Every Enlightened. Mon
mid Woman in the
Universe,. , .
BUY WHOLE DOTTLE?.
r;;:3I3T OONT IIPTI3L3 TUITATIOin
Society
The civil servant who, after just serving
a sentence for embezzlement in a neighbouring
province, got appointed to a position in a much-
retrenched N.S.W. Department, and who has
just been , sent to prison for a similar offence,
received his appointment on the strength of forged
credentials and letters of introduction, addressed
to a very old and influential, though now retired,
potentate.
# • *
“Save £2OOO a year in the Governor’s
salary,” said storekeeper M’Donald, M.P., in
S. A. Assembly, 44 and you might as well shut up
all the Rundle-strect shops, for the only way to
make rich people spend money is to put them in
competition with each other in the matter of
equipages and decorative dress.”
* * #
The authorities of Sydney’s most fashion-
able lawn-tennis organisation lately asked Gov.
Duff to let them fence off portion of the vice-regal
Domain for the purposes of a lawn ! The Governor
said “No.” He had no objection himself, but in
the interests of his successors he could not under-
take to diminish the Domain.
# ♦ •
Reported that three members of the old
Sydnev Reform Club (which virtually died with
Jack Robertson), one of them a Sydney barrister,
have been left £2OOO each by a fellow-member,
44 whose evenings they helped to brighten with cir-
cuit stories.” The Bulletin knows a lot of these
circuit stories ; one or other of two minor judges
was generally the hero. Warm !
# * *
In Melbourne, within the last few weeks,
a hulking individual who staved-in a woman’s
countenance with his boots was fined 10s., and
another hog who slit his wife’s nose with a knife
vas charged £2 for the festivity. These were
cases of violence without injury to property.
Meanwhile, Bryan O’Loghlen, who committed a
much less brutal assault while endeavouring to get
away with a few pounds’ worth of goods, got ten
years and two floggings. The horrible callousness
of the average Australian 44 beak,” or Judge, so
long as only some mangled human being is in-
volved and no outrage has been committed upon
threepenn’orth of (hats off!) is the
eighth wonder of the world. It would be interest-
ing to know how much it would cost to scalp a
casual stranger (without robbery) in Melbourne
these times.
A Riverina (N.S.W.)
station elegy. The child of
a married stockman is dead
and the solemn funeral is
being impressively conducted
by the boss. Suddenly it is
discovered that no ropes
have been provided for lower-
ing the little coffin into its
bush hole. 44 Run to the
store, Mister Dolnm, and
fetch down a piece of small
rope off the coil. Storekeeper
Dolum starts off at a run,
but is suddenly checked in
his gallop by— 44 Hi ! Dolnm!
Don’t cut it too short; make
it long enough to do for
reins after we’ve fixed this
job.”
• # •
A true love-story ? Yes.
A true love story ? Perhaps.
Squatter Q., of N.Q., say,
drank himself to death in
the heat of summer. The
nearest township was 30
miles away. The widow and
the overseer travelled thither
in a buggy and pair, with a
light waggonette carrying
the blanketed corpse in tow.
. . . They reached the
township some time that
night. . . Thewiddyhad
needed and had got com-
fort. The overseer married
her the week afterwards.
She had money, and he is
now the squatter.
# • •
Of the funny man at a
recent New England (N. S.
Wales) wake, the sorrowing
widow remarked, “Yerrah,
he kep us a-splittin’ our
soidcs wid laffin’ all noight,
what wid his comical shtoriea
an’ fun. Oi never enjied
mesilf so much in all me
loife. ’ And then that funny
man went consistently home
in the dawn and —dropped
dead. What a wake he got,
44 to be coorse !”
The flogging incident in Sydney, the other
day, concerning which a gore-longing press accused
Dr. O'Connor of 44 squeamishness ” for stopping
the flagellator ere the full dose ordered had
descended on the riba of the fainting floggee,
recalls to a correspondent the 44 good old days ” of
00 years ago. Then Col. Wilson, who lived in a
shingled hut in Clarence-street, Sydney, presided
over the police-court proceedings, which werecon-
ducted in the old Butter Market Buildings,
George-street. Wilson was instinctively cruel,
vindictive, and proud; also, what was then far
more terrible, supreme in bis small zone of official-
ism. The swish of the 44 cat” was music to his
ears, and he kept the instrument playing almost
all the. time. Every morning he would ride from
home to the 44 court,” attended by two constables,
one on each sidewalk. It was the special duty of
1 hese officers to mark that all 44 Gov’ment men ”
44 saluted ” the Colonel, and to order the unready
so to do.
!••*•**
One morning in ’34, Wilson and his satellites
met in George-street, Bill Nash —a convict of
44 Dust-the Queen ” notoriety, and who was an
assigned servant to his own wife. Nash refused,
even when ordered, to doff his tile to the dreaded
potentate. He was seized, dragged to the Court,
and sentenced to 50 lashes. In less than two
hours, Nash had returned to his wife’s home (one
of “ Sam Terry’s ” cottages in Pitt-street) bearing
on his back a skinless raw place about the size of a
soup-plate. Now, Colonel Wilson was cobvvebbed
with debts to small tradespeople ; so Mrs. 44 Dust-
the Queen” set about purchasing the big man’s
liabilities, and at length she 44 went for him ” in
Commissioner (afterwards Judge) Therry s Court:
gained a verdict in every case, and, finally, sold
up all Wilson’s possessions, even to the very horse
he had been riding when 44 Dust-the-Queen ”
refused to 44 salute.”
The old Colonists’ Club in Ballarat puts up
the names and dates of all departed members on
marble slabs in the hall. The aspect isn’t cheer-
ing, but, still, it scarcely found excuse for the bias*
phomy of an old colonist newly elected — 44 Why,
the place is papered with d tombstones !”
J
SOURED BY FAILURE.
LITTLE ETHEL : " Teddy, do you like Miss Broadlip?”
TEDDY : " No; I hate her, she’s a bad-tempered old fing.”
LITTLE ETHEL: " O! you can’t ’spec’ her to be good-tempered
’cos she’s an old maid.”
Mem. for N.S.W. Leprosy Department:—
Was that Sydney schoolroom, in which 400
44 Christian Chinese ” assembled, the other night,
afterwards cleansed and disinfected with corrosive
sublimate ?
* * *
The wife of a prosperous Sydney business
man died, the other day, of leprosy; one of his
daughters is now in the Little Bay lazarette. Ah
Scab is a model domestic servant.
# * *
The Austral Salon (Melb.) ladies fell under
discussion, the other day, and to a courteous
44 What d’ye think of ’em ? ” the reply was made,
44 We11,” Coleridge said, 44 a1l old women (and
there are some of them at least middle-aged, aren’t
they?) come under one of three classifications,
4 That dear old lady,’ ‘ that poor old soul,’ 4 that
d —d old cat.’”
• * *
To be hypnotised is simply to sell to the
devil the ragged remains of your soul. 44 Yes,”
said an Australian hospital doctor, 44 the other
day, five of the hypnotised came in, all mental
and physical wrecks. Fact is, hypnotists only
get a thorough hold of weaklings, and keeping
them in hand for a week or two thoroughly break
them down. They find such creatures in every
city, and use them up, and leave them to drift into
hospitals, asylums, or gaols.”
* * *
As Echo Farm, the Sydney inebriate
home, boasts that its inmates live well on 10s. pot
week, a N.S.W. Legislative Councillor demands
to know what all the bother is about £5 and £7 £l
month being offered to men on board boats, with
food thrown in. Councillor asks the question as
an economic clincher.
In future, S. A. Judges
are to get a fixed allow-
ance when on circuit.
Hitherto they have been
paid what they spent,
however much or little.
It was generally much,
# # #
Barbwire, Jr., had
just returned to old
Barbwire’s station (N.S.
Wales), after a stay in
Europe. Old Barbwire
suggested that his boy
might treat the shearers
to a lecture on his foreign
travels. Agreed. To
ensure a sympathetic
audience, Old Barbwire
served out a stiff nobbier
of rum all round. The
son orated. He was a
stammering, gurgle *in *
the - slot volcano of
“Aws” and “Ahs.” The
audience stood it till the
last bead of rum had
exuded to the cuticular
surfaces. . . . “Haw!
When I—aw—was—ah —
on the Continong—aw!”
“Oh! (blubber) the Con-
tinong? Give us some
more (sanctified) rum,”
mumbled a bass voice,
vibrant with angry emo-
tions.
* * •
A new religious sect
has been formed in Mel-
bourne—the Society of
the Friends of Fraud.
At Sydney, Mrs. Humphreys has obtained
a divorce from Captain Humphreys, lion-tamer,
on the grounds of cruelty and adultery. ‘ ‘ Evidence
was given to show that the respondent often ill-
treated petitioner when drunk.” When drunk —
that’s the point. Mrs. Humphreys musn’t mis-
understand the Oapting’s treatment.
The jury which awarded one M’Ewan £750
damages against a co-respondent in a Sydney
court last week, added a rider. to the effect that
the court should settle £5OO of the sum on
M‘Ewan’s child. Unless some rule be laid down
defining the relative hurt to father and child in
such cases, husbands will never know what value
to put on their loss of peace. If the habit con-
tinue unchecked, it is quite probable that when a
woman gets damages for breach of promise a
thoughtful jury will recommend the court to im-
pound three-quarters of the amount to be divided
equally among her children by subsequent mar*
riage. # ,
A man who lately attempted to hang him*
self because he suffered from excruciating tooth-
ache, but was restored to sanity and health in
Sydney Hospital, has received a billet which
should keep him comfortably for life. The billet
is the outcome of the attention his case excited
when in hospital. This gives a clue to the reason-
ing of those jurists who maintain that attempts at
suicide should be severely punished.
« * •
Typical silver-boom story :—Two Barrier
shareholders some years ago divided spoil to the
extent of .£70,000. One of the pair now
probably possesses far short of 35,000 pence;
the other, his £35,000 likewise fled, died early this
month on the Murchison (W.A.) of typhoid.
• # *
On the night of the glorious 15th August,
when Panton, P.M., refused to issue a summons,
Matthew Davies and Millidge showed up, large as
life, in the dress-circle at Melb. Princess’. They
were there “on the bluff,” apparently, and they
looked like a pair of protected bankers who had
dined well and cracked a bottle to the Law’s health.
It set one thinking of the night, four years ago,
when Davies hired a grand tier box at the Opera
House in honour of J. L. Dow. Dow had been
made a defendant in the Premier Building Society
case, and Matthew, anxious to express his disap-
proval of prosecutions, occupied a commanding
position in the box with Dow at his right hand.
Pat Man trotted around saying, “You see what
Sir Matthew thinks of this shameful persecution of
leading citizens.”
# * *
Apropos of a much-discussed last week’s
event. The hard-headed, practical, commercial
man lives and dies without knowing the love of
any woman save his mother. He thinks he has
from time to time revelled in the tender passion,
between business hours, but he’s mistaken. H«
has novor even dreamed of what it is like. Most
married women dream of a genuine passion for a
man, and that’s as far as they get, unless they run
awa ; with the other fellow. Xove is chiefly sup-
plied and j ns tig a ted by dreadful men who don t
i cave muc h money behind them. In rare instances
th j plenty of money, and the women absorb
' *
- ,
Oil a N.Q. wharf some 14 or 15 Kanaka
women may be seen daily cracking blue-metal for
toad-work, &c. A white man stands over them
as nigger-driver. The gifted Miss London Times
Shaw was not privileged to see this.
* * * ;
Prisoners in Darlinghurst are rewarded, in
kind, for special services. Thus the two prisoneis
w ] lo removed Herod Makin’s strangled Corpse
from the scaffold to the morgue got each two
sticks of tobacco and a gill of ruin.
PROBABLY RENTED.
INEBRIATE (after reading
name of cottage over door-
way): “Mush be firsht
he—hie —ever owned, or
be wouldn’t be so
c-cocky over it.”
One of the big Sydney pubs, has begun to
sell half-pints of beer at Some years ago a
Fitzroy (Melb.) publican sold “colonial ” at Id. a
glass, acquired a widespread fame, and did an
enormous trade.
# * #
Even Deeming wasn’t original. Some-
thing like 12 years ago a selector, reputed to be a
violent and cantankerous old man, and his semi-
idiotic son lived together in a hut near Benalla
(Yio.). The son disappeared unaccountably about
the latter part of 1891, and the hut was burned
down shortly afterwards. Then the old man
withered up and died in the Benevolent Asylum.
Later on a report went abroad that a spectre used
to hang about the site of the old hut, but when
anyone came that way it would rush through him
and disappear down the road without offering any
reliable clue to its identity. Next, an adjacent
inhabitant dreamt that if lie dug among the ashes
bf the burned house he would find a skeleton, and
this dream agitated him for two years till at last,
a few days ago, he went there with sundry friends
and supporters, and from beneath the fireplace they
disinterred a stack of bones, presumably those
of the idiotic son who vanished 12 years ago. The
remains are now being examined by various ex-
perts, and in case they should prove to be the
debris of mutton-chops it is best to drop the
story just here.
• # *
It is related that a Civil servant who lias
lived for the past .three years in a Sydney hotel
never once entered or left by the private or front
door. He effects ingress and egress by the back-
yard gate.
# # *
Apropos the N.S.W. Chinese mission, it is
a curious fact that, with many leading personages,
the “ blood ” of relationship is a long way thinner
than the “ water ” of an alien’s repentance. Chari-
table and quasi-charitable institutions in N.S.
Wales could be named, in which are to be found
cast-off blood relatives of wealthy “shining lights ’■
who rhapsodise over the murky Chinaman mainly
because he is a dirty curiosity that supplies a
seasoning to their tasteless lives.
• « *
It being admitted that the Chinese are
not, from our standpoint, a musical race, why is
it that Australian missionaries, when they “con
vert ’’ a batch, induce them to sing English hymns
for the edification of Australian audiences? Every
parson is at heart a showman, but most of them
don’t know their business.
THEN AND NOW.
Last year, when wattle was in flower,
I stood beside the gate ;
And listened, at the sunset hour,
For footsteps never late.
His soul was mine in those glad days—
My God was in his eyes.
How near divine, before my gaze,
Did that dear image rise !
This year, when wattle is in flower,
I face the world alone.
I would not love, had I the power ;
My heart is turned to stone.
The god I worshipped in his eyes
Has proved as false as Hell.
His tender words were honeyed lies:
They lured me, and I fell.
Next year, when wattle is in flower,
The grave will hide its dead;
Life’s light is dark, the sweets are sour*
I welcome death instead.
I welcome death, and do not fear
To face the veiled unknown ;
Goil of revenge ! my prayer hear,
L' t me not die alone !
M.
Dear madam, men make queer mistakes,
Deceived by glass convivial—
You’ve heard of husbands “seeing snakes,”
A drink delusion trivial.
The Captain’s blows, you must confess,
Made no attempt at maiming you,
Ho took you tor a lioness,
And fancied he was taming you.
Perhaps ypu had a fit of rage—
As ladies will, unhappily—
And pranced around the parlour cage,
Behaving somewhat snappily.
He tapped your nose—you gave a roar,
Such cruelty inflaming you,
With what result ? Why, all the more
Your keeper went on taming you.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is too well-known to require
tlie aid of any exaggerated or fictitious certificate.
Witnesses of the marvellous cures effected by this
preparation are to-day living in every country of
the globe.
To The Deaf.— A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the II -ad after 1 1 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
To Readers of “ The Bulletin.”
Attention is directed to The Bulletin’s
Missing Word Oornpetion (No. 6) announced on
cover of this issue.
Have you a cough ? Sleepless nights need no
longer trouble you. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral will
stop the cough, allay the inflammation, and induce
repose. It will, moreover, heal the pulmonary
organs and give you health.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to de Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
In these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first hasbeen'to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBBL and LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
Tbo raids made on Chinese gamblers in
Sydney are better planned than the public think.
From the very start the fan-tan house is known to
the police, the numbers who go in and out are
counted, and the probable profits to the croupiers
and his associates estimated. But the raid is
always deferred till the bank is rich enough to
pay the fines.
# * #
Sickening to see bow that Aramac explo-
sion is magnified. A piece of an old battered
sardine tin becomes “an article mauufnctun d ex-
pressly for bolding an infernal machine.” Then a
passenger is nabbed—“ a man with one arm”
against whom there is nothing else except that he
has but one arm in his possession, and used to
address open-air meetings. “The police are very
reticent ” about the other arm. Very reticent !
# ‘ «
Four consecutive items from last Friday’s
Sydney Evening News :
TyANTED to Adopt Baby Girl, superior birth.
’ ’ Nurse, Haymarket P.O.
TyANTED, a kind Person to Care a Baby Boy, 8
’’ mths, charge moderate. 190 Elizabeth st.,
Strawberry 11.
"yy ANTED, kind Lady Adopt for life healthy Baby
” Boy, fair. 3 mths. Nurse, P. 0., Mirrickviile.
“tyANTED, kind Lady to Adopt a beautiful Baby
Boy. Fidor, P. 0., Leichhardt.
The baby girl of “superior birth ” is an item that
ought to be looked into. When the unde offshoot
of a noble family is hawked round on the hsiL-shell
in this manner, it seems a base reflection on the
last noble globe-trotter who passed this way.
# # •
When Gordon, M.L.A. (Vic.), tried last
week to get the village settlements made teetotal
Under the Act, John Duffy told the House that
people who visited Mildura said they never saw a
more drunken community, and Taverner, M.L. A.,
added that most of the doctors thereabouts were
convinced of a pressing necessity for all their
patients taking stimulants.
In a certain por-
tion of the earth there
was once a bank-
teller, also a bank-
inspector; Among the
personal possessions
of the latter not under
direct charge of his
wife was a damsel of
golden hair, bella-
donna eyes, and a
forty-two-inch bust-
measurement. With
rise of position and
salary, combined with
lucky silver specs., to
the erstwhile lowly
teller came aspira-
tions beyond his sta-
tion ain bi tions
which were realised
when the beauteous
one transferred her
blandishments to the
subordinate. Months
passed. The inspec-
tor became manager
of the head office
many thousand miles
away, but Nemesis
was upon the young
man’s track. His
specs, failed, and,-as
is usual in such cases,
the bank’s coffei's had
to suffer. When the
embezzlement was
discovered, the local
authorities, seeing a
chance of the delin-
quent’s relatives
“parting” the deficit,
wired the manager
their intention of a
nolle prosequi. A
reply came: “Prose-
cute at any cost.” The
lovely woman with
the cadmium hair has
much to answer for.
* * #
The burning nar-
rative of the seduction
by a local business
man of a young girl,
published recently by
Brisbane (Q.) Tele-
graph, turns out to
have been a skilful
fable concocted by a
precocious runaway
from a girls’ school,
who had loved a
jockey “not wisely
but too well,” and
wanted to provide for
a ’foreshadowed acci-
dent.
Tbe Sydney doctors had a big smoke-
concert among themselves the other night. It was
chiefly notable as revealing the possession by a
suburban medico, an Irish gentleman, of an ex-
tremely fetching tenor voice. Another incident was
the placing of a French waiter at the telephone.
“Tell Doctor Smith that Mrs. Murphy’s tempera-
ture is up.” The waiter: “ Ductcur Smiff, zay
say Mrs. Murphy’s tempaire is up.”
* *> *
A miserly and blasphemous N.S.W. ex-
M.P. used to rigidly catechise the members of his
family concerning the items in each monthly
“ storekeep ” bill. A pen-photo, of one such
scene:—Pater; “2 yards ribbon.” Meek voice:
“I had that, pa.” Fater : “ —... —* ## ! I chest
of tea.” “I had that, pa.” Pater: “!!?()—!”
and so on, till—l case of whisky.” Chorus: “We
didn’t have that, pa!” Pater: “ ***..!!!—
—? ’’
# # «
The proprietor of a Sydney paper invited
one of Ida reporters to dine with him on a recent
evening. The dinner turned out to be a “ popu-
lous ” affair, and the reporter spoiled his digestion
with suspicions as to why he was invited. The
suspicious came right end uppermost, for in an
interval of silence in the drawing-room, later on
the proprietor cried out from the other end of the
apartment, ‘‘Mr. Jones, you had better look at
the music-sheet and take the right spelling of that
piece I ”
* * *
“Pathetic end of an Old Man “ He
laid down to Die,” wore two cross-headings in
Melb. Standard. Any old man who laid any
kind of down might be expected to die, but it
wouldn’t be a pathetic end by any means.
» « «
A colony of rich Victorian TheosopbistS
(mostly women), the publicity of whose ablutions
has raised the rents of all houses which command
a view of the curtainless dormitories, have pur-
chased several houses with a view to closing them
or letting them to Mahatmas.
# #
A lawyer-widower in a Q. country town
lias created a local sensation by taking to himself
a wife, a buxom handmaiden. He used to paint
his future marital ambition as nothing less than
“youth, beauty and gold ; ” but an athletic father
with a stockwhip reasoned him into conversion.
* * *
Vic. Sweating Commission reports that the
increase in sweating is largely due to the collapse
of the Tailoresses’ Union.
# # »
A bumble hodman’s yarn. Tbe mueb-
barbered and magnificently-tailored building-
contractor “Bill” Jennings, erst of Sydney, now
of Salt Lake City, was a perfect terror to spell-
broathiug workmen. Ho visited several times each
day any large work of his, and at the times of his
calls no man dared straighten his back. One
morning he was thunderstrioken at seeing on the
first-storey staging a “ bricky ” loaning against a
post and smoking the pipe of placid contentment.
Up the ladder ran the irate boss. “ Here, you,
what are you ? ” “ Bricklayer.” “ H’m ! That’s
12<. a day.” (It was in those halcyon days.)
“ Well, I'll pay you off, and just you cleat out.
To-day's Thursday ” (Fridays were paydays),
“ that’s five days. Here’s £3 ; now, quit ! ” The
“bricky” took the money and slithered down
into the street. Just then the foreman Came down
another ladder from the second storey, and on
him turned the filming boss. “What d’yon
mean, sir, by employing loafers? I found a great
hulking bricklayer smoking away here. So I’ve
paid him off, and run him out.” “Who?”
REFLECTED CLORY.
MRS. SMITH (of the N.S.W. back-blocks, to Mrs. Hourigan, gorgeously
decorated, of the ditto ditto, whose husband has just been gazetted
a J.P.) : “If you please, Mrs. Hourigan, what’s soap a bar
this morning?”
MRS. HOURIGAN: “You must go up and ax His Worship. You’ll find
him at the back of the shtore.”
“ There, see that fellow swinging up the street as
jauntily as an owned dog? That’s the fellow.”
“You paid him off, sir?” “Yes, the d
loafer.” “Oh, well, that feller ain’t employed
here ; he came here half-an-hour ago and asked for
a job, and I went around to see if I could put
him on.”
• # #
Two Sydney newspapers, supposed to be
rivals from doorstep to roof-tile, exchanged proofs
of reportorial matter on two occasions last week.
# » #
Tbo Sydney gaol-van was built to accom-
modate 18 prisoners, but carries half-a-dozen more
on some occasions. A prisoner the other day
raised a question as to his sitting rights, and
threatened the vengeance of the Constitution on
the overloaders of the ebony vehicle.
• # *
In Maoriland, nowadays, an economical
Government lets out the backs of postage-stamps
for advertising purposes. The gummed side of
the stamp doesn’t hold ink very well, and if you
lick it too carefully the advt. comes off. Recently
a patient, while waiting his turn to see a doctor
concerning some chest-affection, employed himself
in abstractedly licking a stamp and putting it on
a letter. Then he was called in and promptly
instructed to put out his tongue. He did so, and
on it the doctor deciphered with some difficulty,
printed backwards in blue ink, the words. “Stop
that cough. Use ’s pectoral.” Then the
doctor sized him up as a particularly offensive
bagman in the drug business, and rushed him
downstairs into the street with violence and
actionable language.
“Carl Villiers ” asks why the S.M.
Herald “misters” city solicitors in its law-
reports and omits the name-handle of country
ones ?
* « »
The Vic. Government’s grant to Melb.
Zoological Society for the current year is just
about equal to the Crown costs in the Mercantile
proceedings. But to what different uses have the
two sums of money been devoted ! In the one
instance a number of choice specimens were
caged, and in the other there was but a weak pre-
tence of trying to capture a choice specimen.
# # #
It has come to this : A Sydney architect
was lately asked to “ take out ” his bill against a
client in—bacon and cheese !
* # #
Dear Bulletin*— Why do we always de-
spise and laugh at the unsuccessful author? A
man who fails in any other business or profession
is pitied!-It. de S. [Wrong. The rule is that
the world pities no failure, and always applauds
success.—Ed. B. Wrong again. It depends on
the “ respectability ”of the success; What about
a successful hangman ?— Sub-Ed. 13. Query. It
is Only when the ex-hangman applies in his old
age at the door of the Benevolent Asylum that he
knows the full measure of public contempt.—
Literary STaff, Bulletin.]
* * *
One Simpson sued one Fraser at Charters
Towers (N.Q.) for £4, and gained a verdict.
Fraser appealed to N.Q. Supreme Court and had
the verdict reversed. Simpson appealed to the Q.
Full Court and had the reversal reversed. Total
probable costs —about <£2so; What wonderful
“ producers ” the lawyers are ! See also, a tragic-
drama within a burlesque. While Simpson was
appealing to the Full Court, Fraser’s lawyers
presented their bill of costs, .£56 13s. ; Simpson
refused to pay; a bailiff was put in with the
result—“ hu'la bona ;” and, lastly, a petition to
wind up Simpson as an insolvent Was presented.
This was to have been heard on August 5. Luckily,
the Full Court in Brisbane decided Simpson’s
appeal on August 3, forestalling his declarable in-
solvency by two days. The possibilities, had
justice crawled as tardily as usual, embarrass the
imagination.
# # *
An urgent case, from SydneyfE. News :
T ADY, 22, dark, splendid prospects, wishes to meet
with business Gentleman willing to marry within
three weeks. This is genuine. Explain business and
religion. ANXIOUS, Oxford-street Post Office.
* * »
Reeves (Maoriland M.H.R.), in the recent
debate on local option, rose and pointing wildly
upwards, demanded : “ Where is this to end? Are
we also to abstain from flesh meat?” People
naturally looked where he was pointing, and their
eyes fell on a stout, evening-dress female in the
gallery with a square yard or more of her own
flesh-meat exposed, apparently for purposes of
illustration.
# # »
Asked by a member of a S.A. Select Com-
mittee, “ What is the first duty of a guard in the
event of a railway collision?” the interrogated
official replied : “To find someone to lay the
blame on. ”
* * *
A Yankee dentist makes two sets of false
teeth—one for mere show and one for boarding-
house use. The latter is guaranteed (a trial per-
mitted) to bite through a lobster’s claw or a sar-
dine-tin, as equivalent tests to the average hash-
house comestible.
» * a
The latest reported dodge by country
itinerants is the alleged instruction of “soft”
females, at 12s. Gd. per hour, in “the Art of
Electric Oil Painting on Glass ” —warranted to
provide aesthetic girls with a good and easy liveli-
hood ! It is the vulgar “transfer” trick, “two
for a ha’penny,” delighted in by small children,
with the addition of a glued cardboard back and
paint-splashes on eyes and lips.
N.S.W. detective-inspector Camphin, just
gazetted superintendent, has earned his promo-
tion by long and intelligent service. Ho was
wounded in the affray in which bushranger Lowry
was shot by Sergt. Stephenson, and was largely
instrumental in bringing to justice Nichols and
Lester, the cold-blooded Parramatta River assas-
sins. Camphin is a quiet-mannered, easy-speak-
ing, grey-whiskered personage, apparently running
into the sixties, with queer screwed-up eyes that
seem to scan the nowhere; yet it is said that he
never forgets a face, no matter how distant the
time of its reappearance. As a much-experienced
man-catcher, with a turn for observant and reflec-
tive philosophy, Camphin ought to collate and
edit his reminiscences, in view of a future outcry
for just such an Australian book as the one that he
could furnish. Memo, for the average “d.”;—-
No one ever yet saw Camphin pervading a liquor-
saloon, with gaudy vest adorned by a loud watch-
chain, recounting fabulous psychological exploits
and taking ostentatious notes in a bulky pocket-
book.
Naturalist M'Cooey, of Burragorang (N.S.
Wales), is canvassing the Parliamentary district
of Camden with the unslakable determination of a
king-parrot. His debiit at Burragorang was
original, and M'Cooeyish to the core. He got the
local Assembly Hall crammed with “ladies and
gentlemen and bright young schoolgirls and school-
boys,” at whom he orated for three-quarters of an
hour, when a 10-minutes interval of fiddling and
waltzing wasfrenziedly indulged in. Then M'Cooey
waded in again forlh. 15min., after which another
“hop” of 15min. occurred; once more, M‘Cooey
raved for Ih, Bmin. Total ; 3h. Bmin. of M‘Cooey,
at 180 words per minute (local brachygrapher’s
estimate) 33,840 words of M'Cooeyese, relieved by
25 minutes of pirouetted sudorifics. There appears
to be a great call for M'Cooey by M'Cooey, who
has earnestly besought himself to stand and
extirpate the king-parrot. Mac’s candidature is a
mischievous joke, as he will himself see when the
numbers go up. He means well, but is constitu-
tionally unfitted for Parliament, and should stick
to bug-hunting in the valleys where there is plenty
of spring water to keep his head cool.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1-
One of the most Australian of the many
books published on Australia is one by Mr. H.
King, photographer, of George-street, Sydney.
The work is an album of types and groups of
aborigines, taken by Mr. H. King. To th«
ethnologist and anthropologist, an album of
this kind is invaluable. It contains pictures of
blacks from Queensland, from New South Wales,
the great Spinifex desert, Prince of Wales Island,
and elsewhere. Some of the pictures are portraits
only, others show bands of blacks going through
native dances, in the act of climbing trees, going
through various rites which savour much of con-
tortionism, and making (ire according to.the native
method. Of the pictures nothing can truly be said
but in praise: the execution is excellent. On thebare
bodies of the Myalls are artistic cuts and scarifica-
tions which give a realistic character to the whole.
Sundry of the blacks would take first prize in an
ugliness show anywhere.
The champion shearer of the world is Mr.
J. R. Howe, the subject of this sketch. He is
a remarkable, fine specimen of an Australian, and
handsome to boot. With a view to introducing
this brand of Eucalypte Extract among the sheds
in the colonies, Colemane & Sons, Limited, last
season promised two gold medals, suitably in-
scribed, to any shearer throughout Australia
whose record for one day readied the highest tally.
A large number competed, and, after being ex-
amined by the shearers’organ “The Hummer,”
was donated to the same man. One medal is the
size of a crown, and the second of half-a crown;
each bears an inscription very neatly inscribed by
Elkington & Co., Sydney—one medal (the larger
one) reads as follows :—“ Presented by Colemane
& Sons, Limited, Eucalypte Manufacturers,
Oootamundra, N.S.W., for the highest tally of
sheep shorn in the colonies in eight hours, for the
season, 1892, by hand-shearing. Won by John
R. Howe, Blackall, Queensland ; sheep shorn, 321,
at Alice Downs, Q.” There is a similar inscrip-
tion substituting the word, “ machine shearing,”
on the smaller medal. For the season, 1893, the
same company offer three medals, to cover one
week’s tallies by hand and machines. We refer
our readers to the advertisement in these columns
for full particulars.
Australian Federation
Is a topic upon which the most inimical of party
politicians can meet for discussion upon a common,
neutral ground, as the intellects of Australia’s
greatest statesmen are imbued with the idea that
the practical federation of the colonies is “a con-
summation devoutly to be wished.” “Union is
strength,” and who can deny that the amalgama-
tion of the scattered Governments of the Aus-
tralian continent shall not result in a nobler and
purer political arena, where self-aggrandisement
will be subordinated to the universal endeavour to
advance and promote national prosperity. The
life dream of Sir Henry Parkes will then become
a reality, and the veteran statesman may be
spared to see an “Australian Commonwealth”
rise from the ashes of the past. And so we pass
on to the contemplation of one of the grandest
successes in federation the world has ever seen, we
refer to Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. This un-
rivalled preparation is an aggregation of sterling
medicinal properties, which through admixture,
or federation, are rendered doublv potent. It
is an infallible remedy for weakness and lassitude,
and in the spring of the year should be in every
house, as its bracing and invigorating qualities
cannot be over-estimated. It strengthens
and supports the weary, gives energy to the
feeble and timid, and instils courage and nervous
power in the debilitated and despondent.


MSTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame,
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe oases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadia
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Prof. Wm. 0.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS—VoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS,—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch- Hirschfkld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above oilier preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The proposed Federal Bank re construction has
Struck a fatal snag. The British creditors, instead of
taking kindly to the resurrection scheme of Mr. Priestly,
ex-manager and present liquidator, demand that that
gentleman should bo removed from his billet, and talk
about a prosecution of ex-dircctors. The appointment of
the manager of a broken-down bank to be liquidator,
after Its decease is a thing which only the submissive Aus-
tralian would tolerate. Next to the saintly director, the
manager is the man above all others who usually has no
interest in too loudly advertising the exactstale of affairs ;
and the idea of appointing him to track out misdoings—
seeing. that he must have had some sort of hand in them if
there were any—is a ludicrous burlesque.
* # ■
The charge made by the London creditors
against the ex-authorities of the Federal is, briefly, that
they used the bank almost entirely as a means tor getting
unsecured overdrafts for themselves and their relatives —
in fact, that they lent almost the whole bank to them-
selves and never paid it back. And anyone who con-
siders the ghastly list of the overdrafts of the busted
saints must feel that it looks very like it indeed.
* * #
If the British creditors carry out their threats,
then there will be more exciting times in Melbourne
where, for nearly sixteen months past, Victorian politics
have consisted entirely in a frantic struggle to decide
whether Matthew Davies should or should not be allowed
a chance to “demonstrate his innocence.’’ Meanwhile,
so far as the creditors are concerned, the Federal Bulk
seems to be panning out, if possible, a little worse than
the Mercantile.
* * •
According to the cable, a committee of the
victims of the defunct Liberator Building Society—the
concern which shut up with a £6,000,000 or £7,000,000
shortage—is going to Buenos Ayres to kidnap the prin-
cipal robber, Jabez Spencer Balfour, and bring him away
secretly in a packing-case, and hand him over to justice.
Victorian bank creditors should make a note of this. In
Melbourne, a whole assortment of fraudulent bankers
walk about the streets waiting to be kidnapped, and
nobody ever dreams of molesting them.
* * *
Two mysteries of Australian banking which are
urgently in need of overhauling by a State audit depart-
ment are the “inner reserves” and (he unclaimed
balances. The inner reserves, so far as any light has
been thrown upon them, are certain sums of the
shareholders’ money which are kept dark by the
directors for their own purposes. They are ac-
cumulated by protracted falsification of the balance-
sheets —-by overrating liabilities or undervaluing good
assets; and in some banks they have amounted to
£lOO,OOO or £200,000, or even more. As they don’t appear
in the balance-sheet, that document is practically bogus.
* m *
The object of the “inner reserve” isn’t very
clear, but it may serve many purposes. For instance, it
may cover the unsecured overdraft of somebody
at a crisis, or the embezzlement of a well-con-
nected officer,‘or money may be borrowed from the inner
reserve to suddenly swell the dividend to an abnormal
size when the board wants shares to go up with a run in
order that it may sell out. The inner reserve, in fact, is
often a secret service or co auption fund accumulated by
syst< matic fabrication and kept in readiness for purposes
that aren’t explained—possibly because they won’t bear
explanation.
• # »
As for the unclaimed balances, they are rob-
beries pure, simple, and undisguised. When a depositor
dies and leaves no heir to claim his balance, the bank,
instead of handing it over to the Curator of Intestate
Estates, generally annexes the amount and says nothing.
When the depositor goes mad, or disappears, or forgets
the existence of his balance, it does likewise. Gradually
these balances run into millions—how many can only be
guessed at.
# • #
The unclaimed balance is half-brother to the
umbrella that is forgotten in a cab, but while the law per-
mits of a cabman being sent to gaol if he doesn’t send the
umbrella to the Government, per medium of the police,
the idea of gaoling the bank-manager and directors for
misappropriation of lost property has never even been
mentioned. A law whereby all unclaimed balances would,
after a certain number of years, be paid in to the Treasury
would be valuable as a means of instilling certain rudi-
ments of honesty into the banking business.
• * •
The notable feature in the Melbourne banking
returns for the last four quarters is that the Colonial per-
sistently keeps the very smallest reserve of the lot. Its
ghastly average of eight or ten per cent, is a burlesque
upon banking security.
# * *
In one respect the Melbourne bank reconstruc-
tions were better managed than those of Sydney. Except
in the case of the Commercial of Australia, which rushed
its scheme through amid a wild whoop of popular en-
thusiasm (the sort of enthusiasm which sends off a Soudan
Contingent at a cost of half-a-million), the dead banks
which rose again will pay no more big dividends until all
or most of their deferred liabilities have been liquidated.
There is no uniformity about the arrangements, for every
judge went his own road, but still all the restrictions tend
In the same direction. The Bank of Victoria is limited to
5 per cent. div. till its debts are paid ; City of Melbourne
to 5 per cent, for three years, after which it can pay not
more than 6 per cent, till its creditors are settled with, or
till its reserve reaches £500,000; the Colonial is limited
to 5 per cent, for seven years, and the National to 4J per
cent, for the same period. And, as the result, the shares
of even the worst of them arc probably better worth buy-
ing than those of the bloated Commercial, which is under
no restrictions.
« « •
Had the state of affairs disclosed years ago
during the audit of the Melb. Real Estate Bank’s affairs
by the firm of Langton, Holmes and M'Crindle, been
exposed, the burst would have come sooner, and in a
milder form. Yet one big Melb. paper had all the infor-
mation.
• # #
Who stole that <£20,000 from the Imperial Bank
(Melb.) till ?
« * •
Humorous item from a Melb. paper : “ The
Standard Bank re opens for ordinary business to-morrow.”
• • •
The Mercantile Bank has, so far, paid its
creditors 4s. 2d. in the £. The Federal has paid its
creditors—how much?
• • •
A correspondent :—Why are the Queensland
Deposit Bank authorities making flesh of one and fowl, of
another in the matter of calls? Local shareholders appar-
ently have had rope until the 14th Inst., while so far back
as two months ago judgment was obtained against one
country holder. And are any of the authorities them-
selves delinquents in the matter of calls?
* • •
The chief charge against Matthew Davies has
nothing to do with falsification of balance-sheets. He may
eventually be prosecuted on the false balance-sheet ticket,
and Fat Man may make a huge display of concentrating his
serious attention upon that particular business. The
great purpose of Fat Man is to—well, “ generalise ” the
Mercantile Bank case ; to divert the public gaze from the
most striking features of the Mercantile management.
But the real charge against Matthew is—“ Tentacles.”
* # *
If the Mercantile crowd be prosecuted on the
plain, matter-of-fact charge of issuing a false balanoe-
sheet, how about the Heal Estate Bank party? How
about the Imperial and numerous other hanks? Here we
have the explanation of “ the Crown’s ” desperate resolve
to “wash its hands of the whole business.” The Vic-
torian Crown is driven to its last, Anal policy. It has
shut its eyes, closed up its ears and nostrils, and washed
its hands of everything save sympathy with these “poor,
harassed ” individuals.
• • •
Only 56 members out of a House of 95 divided
on the question of the Mercantile Bank prosecutions in
Vic. Assembly. The Daviesites carried the day by 33 to
23. Let their names he remembered at the next general
flection.
There was one wrong note in the dashing Mer-
cantile Bank speech by Murray, M.L.A., for Warrnambool.
Murray seemed to insinuate that Judge Uolroyd had
'willingly presided over “a solemn farce” in the Grand
Jury matter, whereas it is by no means clear that he
thought the alien juror was a “dead bird ” for Matthew
Davies. People generally respect Judge Holroyd, and
would like to hear his opinion on the subsequent quashing
of the True Bill ere arriving at the Murray conclusion
that “ he must be either an ass or a knave.”
* m *
Pressmen at Broken Hill pursue their occupa-
tion under difficulties. It is easier to solve the sulphide
problem than to find the truth re a creep, and though a
reporter can hear the timbers crashing he has to accept
the bland assurance of the Shah of the c ollapsing mine
that it is “a mere nothing unless he happens to
know a man who works below. As for new developments
—there are 50 varieties of managerial prevarication to
cover them.
# * *
The B.H. Proprietary Co. has leased the British
Co.’s smelters at Broken Hill, and negotiations are in
progress for the purchase of the carbonate or. sin the
mine. No doubt if an offer to buy the mine outright were
made the British shareholders would stiffen their backs
and ask a high figure, although the property has not yet
returned them a penny. By taking the assets in detail
the Proprietary can easily acquire all that is worth
having, and the British people can keep their scrip
to look at. Thus all parties will he suited, and it seems
the only means by which the British will ever pay a
dividend, unless sonaething unexpected happen in the
silver market.
# * *
The Tarrawingee Flux Co. has paid no div. for
a long time. The price of flux has not been reduced, and
although the output has been lessened by the closing of
the British and the partial shutting down of Block 14
smelters, the co. ought to he still paying, unless the cal-
culations of the promoters were a long way out.
* * #
The great principle of “ Freedom of Contract,”
which was found so difficult to define in words during the
shearers’and other strikes, has been clearly d fined in deeds
by the Barrier mining companies. The “freedom” in
force at B. H. means that every man employed is compelled
to join a union bossed by the managers, and to subscribe
Is. every week, and sometimes 25., towards what is called
a sick and accident fund. The money is subscribed on
the reconstruction principle, i.c., deducted from the men’s
wages on pay-day, and if anyone objects (the right to
object being freely recognised by the employers) the
additional freedom of being allowed to immediately leave
the town and district is conferred upon the objector.
# * #
Now that the wages-reductiou has come, there
is gnashing of teeth amongst the erstwhile “free
labourers” who first went to the assistance of the Barrier
mining companies. While the reduction of wages was not
yet, but only threatened, these members of that “ better
class of men ” exchanged smiles and winks and subduedly
shook hands with themselves. They would not be
included in any reduction scheme. The directors would
not forget the men who, &c., And the directors
didn't forget them —with their assistance wages are to be
put right down to 6s. a day.
* * *
Barrier mine workmen have ere now discovered
that benefit societies formed under directorial segis have
drawbacks apart from the financial embarrassment to
which they are peculiarly subject. The Barrier mines’
sick and accident fund is a shining example. The men’s
contributions arc higher, and the sick and accid ait allow-
ances lower, than under the AgM.A. regime ; t lie chief
beneficiaries,apparently,are theurictors. The ill-disguis d
object of the society’s formation was to withdraw support
from the A.M.A. and affiliated unions. The sick and
accident idea is one of the most successful methods which
has yet occurred to the capitalistic mind of smashing up
the tough and troublesome fighting unions and pulveris-
ing the pieces, and it is bound to be repeated throughout
Australia.
# * «
The Broken Hill (N.S.W.) sulphides need, it
seems, treatment by water, which means, so long as the
Barrier price for that fluid is ss. per 1000 gallons, that
they must lie taken elsewhere. A similar necessity will
probably be found to exist as regards fuel. It is not cer-
tain that Newcastle (N.S.VV.) will not ultimately be the
locality favoured.
# # #
The Broken Hill strikers have, since their
return to the Barrier, been conducting a unionistic re-
vival. They discovered that the boycott system and other
capitalistic pleasantries had sadly demoralised the local
unions.
* » *
The South (Broken Hill) Co. is to reconstruct
and transfer its liabilities to a new no-liability co. It will
still be the same old mine, however. The shareholders,
many of whom got in at over £B, are just now very tired,
and it seems hopeless to expect that under any circum-
stances an increase of capital could be successfully
engineered. Shares, at present, 2s. 6d.
* * 9
An extraordinary decision has been given by a
warden at Hillgrove. The Baker’s Creek North applica-
tion for labour suspensions was opposed by the shallower
mines behind because stoppage of pumping would compel
them to drain their own ground, therefore the application
for suspension was refused. If so, then they should de-
fray the cost of pumping in the Baker's Creek North.
The time has arrived for the introduction of some sensible
drainage-regulations into the N.S.VV. Mining Act.
# # #
The Adelaide co. have got the nozzle on to that
part of the Shoalhaven River known as Manar, and a
practicable route has been surveyed to Yellow Springs.
It was mainly for the purpeae of carrying the magnificent
gravitation water-scheme to Yellow Springs that it was
purchased. The ground at Yellow Springs is better wash,
the quantity is unlimited, and the get-away abundant for
all time.
• • #
No. 1 North Phoenix is now crushing large
quantities of Joz. rock. Last crushing, 800 tong, 4020z5.
gold ; dividend, 6d.; total in divs., £400,000,
* * *
The public are getting weary waiting for some
definite results from Low's Log Paddock alluvial claim
near Mudgee. It may be all right, but it will have to be a
mighty big thing to reach the local hummer’s predictions.
• • •
Mt. Gahan’s half-yearly meeting was not a
Jubilant gathering. Directors have had to borrew to
complete machinery, which, by the by, has taken over a
year to erect. Since 10 of' the 20 heads started 190 tons
of ore and 396 tons tailings have yielded, gross, 2430z5.
The report: “It has not been found necessary to raise
any stone during the half-year from the main workings,
which have been placed in readiness for supplying the
battery when completed a somewhat remarkable state-
ment.
• * •
Big crushings seem to have ceased awhile at
Baker’s Greek mine. Last yield, 4710 z. from 339 tons.
Too small for divs.
• * *
Mitchell’s Creek (N.S.W.), 6160 z. from 670 tons
last month. Why is mining on this lode confined to one
property,? A big-area one, ’tis true, but the lode can be
seen running along the surface outside their ground. The
gold, too, is not in short shoots, and in this the reef is
distinguished from nearly all others in the province.
• • •
In a largely-displayed advt., the 2s. 6d. div. of
the Hillgrove Antimony Mining and Smelting Co. is
announced. No nuntion is made, however, of the number
of shares, or total amount of divs.
» * •
A Shoalhaven sluicing manager swears warmly
at the number of distressed men sent by Govt, to that
district. None have money, and, as it is next to im-
possible to get gold, they are largely dependent on the
charity of the workers for rations. Ere sending away
hundreds of men with tin dishes, Dowell and Greer should
have instructed them how to “ pan off.” Panning off is
as tricky a feat as making a cigarette with your fingers.
There are hundreds of miners who cannot pan off a dish
of stuff effectively, and what show will absolute strangers
make at it; moreover, there is little or no payable dirt to
operate on. If it were summer-time, and the river very
low, a living might possibly be made.
West Sunlight—3Bo tons, 1240 z. ; stone included
a considerable quantity of mullock. All poor crushings
in N.S.W. are largely made up of mullock ! Why mullock
if the reef is 4ft. wide? Tun Bulletin is tired of mullock
crushings. Next to “seconds” and “thirds,” give us
mullock.
# * *
Westralia’s gold output for last quarter,
23,1210 z.: Yilgarn, 12,0030 z. ; Murchison, 61530 z. ; PU-
barra, 45000 z. ; other small fields nowhere.
* # •
Charters Towers leads in the gold race, and is
well ahead of Ballarat. Bendigo is a close third, because
the Ballarat official output includes dunes, Oreswick,
Egerton, Gordon and Smeaton, whereat Bendigo’s indig-
nation fumes. For the past half-year Charters Towers,
135.7240 Z. ; Ballarat, 106,108 oz.; Bendigo, 96,5150 z.
* * *
Again a lot of people have been tempted to pay
their calls into that treacherous will-o’-the-wisp concern,
the Golden Gully mine, Ironbarks. Just as directors were
contemplating shutting down, news was received that
lOoz. gold had been picked out of two small stringers.
The mine itself is a notorious stringer, and it is a mere
toss-up at present whether the future means more calls or
a dividend, the shock of which would be too much
for some of the shareholders.
* * *
Last week A. A. Gallagher was acquitted at
Sydney on a charge of having stolen a £258 cheque, the
property of W. Chapman and the Mount Costigan Silver
Co. The Judge, while the evidence was proceeding, said
that in the case the most dreadful lies hid been told that
ever mortal ears had listened to. If his Honor had but
known the facts at the back of tile case he would hardly
have wondered at the fine display of plain and fancy
perjury.
• # #
Dear Bulletin,—Some miners are working on
church and school lands at Flyers Creek, near Forest
Reefs, N.S.W. They were doing fairly well, when a
squatter, whose land is about two miles further down the
creek, ordered them off, because they were muddying the
water in washing the dirt they got. There is abundance
of other water, and the creek water is never used by the
squatter, but he needed it for his men to bathe in. —X.F,
* * *
Bulletin readers, in view of the subjoined most
contradictory accounts, will exercise much caution con-
cerning Coolgardie and district. The consensus of in-
formation undoubtedly is that the place is a shockingly
bad “ poor man's field” up to date.
* * *
Editor Bulletin.— Melbourne Herald, of July
1 Lst, published a sensational telegram from Perth,
W.A., under six ‘ e displayed” headings, slating that there
were then 1100 m n on the new gold-find, about 30 miles
from Coolgardie, W.A., that the majority had struck gold,
one man getting 200 ozs. in two days ; that a great many
\ 11). slugs had been found ; that the field is alluvial with
gold almost on the Jsurface ; that several claims were
opening out as rich as Bayley’s original discovery ; that
flour was at famine prices, and not enough of it on the
Kimberley field f ir a month’s supply, the residents sub-
sisting meanwhile on biscuits ; and that the natives were
troublesome and had set fire to a police-station.
Now, I was one of the first men on Coolgardie,
and am well acquainted with the field and its sur-
roundings. Here are facts: Hannan and Flannigan
reported, five weeks ago, a new find, 30 miles E.N.E.
of Coolgardie. With three mates I was at the place
the following day, and stopped there for three weeks. In
this time we four managed to get 2dwts. A few specimens
have been picked up on the surface, but no half-pound
slugs, and most certainly there is no such man in exist-
ence as the alleged prospector who picked up 200 oz. in t wo
days. Further, there is no claim like Bayley’s (Sylvester
Brown and Co.) on the new find, or here in Coolgardie.
Anybody saying to the contrary tells an unmitigated false-
hood. There are about 1200 men on Hannan’s find, few
of whom arc making a-living, still fewer doing well, and
the majority getting nothing but woula gladly leave the
field if they had money enough to do so. Coolgardie is at
present deserted, not 150 men being on the field. A few
are working on reefs, which, in my opinion, arc worthless;
Lire rest are running all over (he field like lost sheep, not
knowing whore to set in. Some are dry-blowing old tail-
ings (a very bad sign) which have been run over and over
again ; others are scratching in abandoned holes for a bit
of sound ground, a few managing to make Idwt. a day—
which is not half sufficient to keep them in provisions.
Flour, Is., lately 9d. per lb.; sugar and rice, lOd. per lb. ;
preserved meats, Is. 3d. per lib. tin ; fresh potatoes. Is.
per lb. ; onions, lOd. per lb. ; butter, 3s. per lb.; jam,
Is. 3d. per lib. tin ; cheese, 2s. per lb. ; bacon, 2s. 3d. per
lb. ; fresh mutton, Is. per lb. ; tea, 3s. per lb., &c. I
might mention English ale, which nobody can afford to
buy, 3s. 6d. per bottle. As for the blacks—l never saw
such wretched specimens of humanity before ; these poor
creatures are only too glad it they are not tormented by
the diggers. This place wants “Tararaboomdeaying,”
and I hope sincerely some speculating boomer will soon
come over and accomplish the deed. —Yours, Truth.
Bayley’s Find, Coolgardie, W.A., Aug. 1, ’93^
The latest from Coolgardie (W.A.), dated Ist
Aug. Editor Bulletin,— Pew diggers are left here. Be-
tween 1200 and 1300 are at the new find, Hannan’s,
25 miles east, where a straight line is to be surveyed
within a fortnight, which will likely measure only 20
miles. Plenty of water yet at the fresh lake, ten miles
from the find. Narrow, but uncommonly rich, reefs have
been found there. Half the alluvial diggers doing fairly
well; few only have returned, and it was for tucker. Now
two stores and a butcher’s-shop there. Numbers of appli-
cations for leases, protection areas, &c., arrive at the
Warden’s office. No sickness on the field. An elderly
man poisoned himself here at Coolgardie last week. Last
month another one got his leg burnt; our German doctor
was not allowed by the authorities to amputate it, and he
had to be taken in a dray to the Cross (130 miles), where,
I believe, the doctor was not to be found at the time.
Fancy, 1500 men without medical attendance ! Here, very
little water left in the Govt. tank. Brackish water was
struck at 96 feet in Bayley’s Reward claim. They are
making the chamber now, and there is 4ft. of water in the
well; total depth to grass, 110 ft. Clay-holes about the
field are pretty well dried up. Water at the store, 3d.
per gallon. Last Friday a party arrived here from Dun-
das, 130 miles south; found beaten tracks all over the
country 100 miles from here. A map showing the Cool-
gardie township, the Reward claim, Bayley’s lease No. 1,
&0., will soon be issued from the Govt. Printing Office.
Several properties have lately changed hands at a good
price. There are several cases of “jumping.” They are
still on rich stuff at Bayley’s. The striking feature of its
“ blow ” has disappeared, as a rich gold vein was found
running perpendicularly beneath. Just now brought in
rich specimens of reef gold, and lodged an application for
a reward claim situated on the 90 miles new north find
track, 45 miles from here. I believe water is scarce there.
Yours, &c., Gallb.
# * •
Editor Bulletin, —In your Wild Cat column,
Bth July issue, you say: “The writer is disinclined to
believe that 9000 ounces of gold was got from 4J tons of
quartz from Bayley’s Reward claim." You can believe
anything you hear about the richness of Bayley’s Reward
claim ; it is next to impossible to estimate its value.
When Bayley sold to Sylvester Browne and Co. was
enough gold in sight to pay for the mine—£6ooo. (Bayley
and Ford also got one-sixth of the shares fully paid up.)
Previous to Mr. S. Browne’s purchase Bayley and Ford took
about 1500 oz. from the reef and only worked a couple of
small potholes to a depth of about 3ft., and dollied the
stone in a quicksilver-bottle. Browne’s first crushing was
done with two quick-silver bottles. The second crushing,
35000 z. or thereabouts, was first crushed in a pianctart,
and then passed through a berdan pan. These machines
are worjted by steam, the engine is a kerosene engine,
alteredfto burn small chunks of wood instead of oil, and
the water for crushing is packed to the mine on a camel.
1 believe the loss is about 12 gallons of water daily when
in full swing. The reef is large, and about 200 tons of
stone (possibly more) is stacked for treatment when a
battery is erected; this stone will go close on 20ozs. to the
ton when crushed. I am not a betting man, but will
willingly wager on lOozs. from the first large crushing.
There is no crushing machine nearer than Southern Cross,
120 miles distant, so there is plenty Of time to takemy wager.
Mr. Sylvester Browne has a shaft on the reef, 35ft. deep,
and has stone at that depth just as rich as the top stone
was when the mine was first bought. The stuff crushed
has been principally a brown ore (gold ore—you cannot
call it anything else, as it is literally a mass of gold, and
frequently chokes ii)) the pianctart). There is also very
rich white quartz. To give you an idea of its richness—
they have in hand at the present moment one piece of
quartz with a mass of gold worked through and through,
estimated to contain over 1500 z., and a smaller piece
containing 50oz. : the balance of the specimens are
something magnificent too much gold in them to
make it advisable to crush at all. The Bayley s
Reward Claim Co. have in hand at the present time
about 35000 z, including the specimens mentioned ; the
co. provide their own escort, and will send down gold in a
few days. lam confident that if Messrs. Browne and Co.
thought fit they could increase their output of bullion
double at least. The reef is six feet (to be within the
mark.) Irm iuc’ined to believe it will average more ; it
is no shoot in my opinion ; if it is, it is a very large one.
This part of W.A., if it were in N.S.W., with the reefs
looking as they do, would have the whole population on
it in less than no time. As it is, we have no machinery
and no water, very little done in development work on the
outside shows, hut everything so far highly encouraging.
To sum it all up : We have the most promising and exten-
sive reefing field In Australia—Yours faithfully, O. H
Chebsbroogh. Coolgardie, Aug. 4.
# # #
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank —
the last of the twelve reconstructing institutions—got
safely afloat a few days ago. Therefore, confidence may
now be considered as finally “restored,” and this time
there is more truth in the gag than usual, seeing that
twelve banks have all successfully grabbed their creditors
by the throat and made them have confidence or die.
The E. S. and A., though the last to get under weigh,
has done better in one sense out of the panic than any
other, for it has eternally fixed £3,120,000 of deposits at 4J)
per cent., while even the hungry Commercial of Australia
only got £3,000,000 on the same terms. The figures of
eleven of the banks are interesting reading.
# # *
Leaving out the North Queensland, which
practically re-opened on the old basis, they have
£6,249,000 of new capital in process of being called up,
and £11,000,000 of deposits have been “fixed” till the
day of judgment, so that, to all intents and purposes, they
become capital also. And as this latter item doesn’t
include the A.J.S., Commercial of Sydney, Q.N., and
Royal of Queensland, which are still in a more or less
unsettled state, the probabilities are that the permanent
additions to the banking capital of Australia will total
£20,000,000 ere everything is finally settled. What a
population of four millions, or thereabouts, wants so much
extra banking capital for passes comprehension.
The Otis Crusher.
Since last writing in The Bulletin, the Otis ore-
erusher has treated at the South Melbourne works
several parcels of stone from Llanelly, Tarna-
gulla, and Warrandyte (Vic). An ounce of gold
to the ton was got from the Llanelly stone, which
came from the great sandstone claim lately taken
up by an English company. The 00. has bought
a big Otis crusher and two Otis concentrators
since the crushing at South Melbourne, and
the machines are now in course of erection
at the claim. The Warrandyte stone gave 2oz. to
the ton from a large crushing, and although the
gold was fine, an assay of the tailings showed only
a trace of gold, and that was in pyrites. An
improvement has been made in the driving-gear of
the concentrator, the result being a peculiar jigger
motion which can best be compared to the motion
of the jaws of a stone-breaker. This gives the tables
a better jigging than the old style of gear, and
shakes up the stuff so that the gold has a chance
of asserting its gravity, which most amalgamators
do not provide for.
By the way, the Cue reefing claim at Murchison
(W. A.) has just sent a manager from Melbourne.
He takes with him a baby Otis mill and an Otis
concentrator to test the reef, which, according to
all reports, lias been pretty fairly tested already.
A small parcel of Cue stone was put through at
the Otis works last week, and gave at the rate of
llozs. to the ton from the concentrating tables.
The matrix is a hungry, deceptive-looking stone,
without any trace of gold to the eye, and yet it
has given the aforementioned yield.


ESTABLISHED 1349.
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A, W. MEEKS, Esq.! RORT.
Tlie Oldest Mutual Life Assuranee Society established In Australasia, and the only one which
®3T- DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors -The Hon. Sic J: th ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.;
J. KINO, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.E.A.
Annual Incomes Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £501,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Olxi.ce l 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERS ALL’S
Grranci HEbzxdxc^xa — Bei»t. o, 1893.
10,000 at 10 10,000
MEXjESOUEIMB CXJI 31 —-Fleiutiigloii, November 7, 1833.
100,000 m~ at 20 100,000
{
xATTKUsAMV’
Care of George Adams,
“ Daily Telegraph ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET*,
BiLsliiine, ii ecus Ist ml.
ADAMS’
| TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ffHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
-i above old-established and popular Hold being’ now
•tompleted, Arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric'Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 pan.
■The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street. Sydney.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These goods are free from Animal Germs and leep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists <$ Stores.
The Best Dressing
AYER’S
HAIR
IVr.'Slfl** 1 "S^hrA’ l -’»'•**"' c,
r lii-Ass"-
ill
oss~:j
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
uriance,
and color
to an ad-
nnced
period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air. and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
supplied by nature, in youth and health, as
modern chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U, 8. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
18 of this issue.
<1 4
t/y
<^V eRY
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
PUO&
*
Bewareofimitations. Thegenuine is signed
TRADE MARK h
gdf
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank (Limited).
THIS Bank will OPEN for Ordinary Banking
Business in New South Wales on TUES-
DAY, 22nd instant, having been constructed from
the old English, Scottish and Australian Chartered
Bank in the terms of the plan of arrangement
recently approved by the shareholders and credi-
tors, and sanctioned by the High Court of Justice.
The SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
of the Bank is .£1,575,000
Of which has been called up (the
final instalment being due
January, 1895) ... ... 1,012,500
The PERPETUAL INSCRIBED
STOCK of the Bank amounts
to ... 3,120,000
In announcing the completion of the legal and
other arrangements for the re-opening of the Bank,
I desire to express the regret of the Board of
Directors and of myself at the inconvenience
occasioned to our clients by the unavoidable delay
in the re-construction, and to thank them for the
goodwill and forbearance that have been shown
throughout the proceedings.
A. URQUHART,
Inspector and General Manager.
Sydney, 21st August, 1893.
£49,460 worth for £l,
MONSTER FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS IN THE
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue —105,000 Shares at £l.
Anyone Can Apply !!
No Liability !!!
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Committee :
Hon. B. B. MORETON, Hon. JOHN DON-
ALDSON, J. J. KINGSBURY, Esq., M.A.,
M.L.A., JAMES HIP WOOD, Esq., J.P.,
AITGHESON OVEREND, Esq., C.E.
Solicitor :-Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
2403 PRIZES Valued as Under :
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking
Chambers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
at cost AMO,OOO ; rental value, Al5OO a year.
Nos. 2to 2403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
Picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
100 of £25
125 of 20
1000 of 10
1000 of 5
Clear Titles!
2 of £lO,OOO 5 of £5OO
lof 5,000 10 of 250
4of 2,500 50 of 100
sof 1,000 100 of 50
Total, <£105,000. No deduction !
Apply to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
Stamped Addressed Envelopes. Register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49 460 worth.
The CALIGRAPH Writing Machine.
W;
*f|S
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by ils peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
In the public offices of Australia than machines of all
Other makes comb hied.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph 1 as two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
ch 1 rafters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, I.udstone Chambers, Collins-street
Hiusi anr, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundlc-slreet; Hobart, J. Walcb & Sons.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
T having come to our knowledge that certain
postmasters have refused to register letters
addressed to “Gala,” c/o H. Alexander, Box 17l
G.P.0., Brisbane, Q., our clients are notified that
the new Postal Act only applies to N.S. W., and
cannot interfere with our business in another
colony.
We shall esteem it a favour if subscribers will
at once notify us of any refusal on the part of the
postal officials in their districts either to register
our letter’s or issue money-orders, so that imme-
diate action may be taken by us.
“Gala” would feel greatly obliged if clients
will circulate this information amongst their
friends.
Drawings will take place in Sydney, and can be
witnessed as usual.
S.EACH.
gdf
5. EACH
gdf
gdf
g
■ On the Following;
Tramway Handicap, Eandwick, 2nd Sept.
At 5 each. 10,000 At 5 each.
Metropolitan Stakes, 19th September.
At 5 each. 20,000 At 5 each.
Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
A DAM BED E’ S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
o^^xT'JCJiodxr.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY
Address
A.dLam Bede,
Post Office Chamber
SYDNEY, N.S.Wi
M>J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler's)
S Y D 2<T IE 3T.
A3T Commissions Executed on following 1 events
Epsom & Metropolitan.
500 to 1.
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out hooks on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5
V-E-0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOURLE;
jj®" THREE CHANCES.
“ Yorkshireman’s” selections
—for—
EPSOM and METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should he obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. Sec Refkhkk, News
and Star. irsT’ “ YORKSHIREMAN,” coW. J; Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
no
n
j MOW HEADY', post free
1M Is. 0(1., THE LIFE,
ADVENTURES, and CON-
FESSIONS ok A SYDNEY
1 BARMAID.
Highly Interesting,
To be had only of And Unique.
MADAME PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
UENIiY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and I I ANO. “ Marllm,” “Robert le Diablo,"
“Crown Diamond*,” “ Lucrezia Borgia," ** William
Tell," “ Faust,” “Un liallo in Maschora,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 0.1. each-Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, \V. PAXTON & Co.,
Condon, and 251 Svvanston Strket, MELBOURNE.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, (hero are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “ TISK ntllSl KVT,’ situated G3I
GEOUGE STREET (liandy (o Railway), and the other i*
the “POST OFFICE,” situated GO KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Propriet. r GI’.O. IV. IIM is,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Englishmen, hatting as they did, couldn’t
lose tlie big match at the Oval, but they stood an even
money chance of not winning it when the Australians
started their first innings. Mold, as predicted by The
Bulletin, was of no use whatever to the Britishers, who
were left to rely upon two bowlers. Lockwood and Briggs
bowled, with very few and short rests, right through both
the Australian innings. They happened to come off won-
derfully in the first innings, and very fairly in the second,
considering that the little man, Briggs, is fat; and the
tall man is notorious for weakening. If either of them
had come to grief with a stomach-ache, bruised hand,
sprained leg, or w'.iat not, the Australians might have
made a “ draw ” in their favour, instead of getting beaten
in one innings. So much for the selecting of “ All
England ” teams. With Brockwell and Richardson
chosen in place of Mold and Walter Read, things would
have looked a good deal worse for Australia at the finish.
# # «
The Australians batted fast enough in their
second “test” match, anyway, and must have slogged
Mold and Jackson unmercifully.
# * *
The Australians have lost the toss in all three
of the “test” matches played up to date. In county
matches Blackham had a not-at-all necessary run of luck
with the coin previous to meeting All-England at the
Oval.
tt * *
Surrey, Yorkshire, and Kent, the three counties
that have scored wins against the Australians, supplied
only two members of the last All-England Eleven, both of
them being Surrey men.
# * *
Shrewsbury and Ward slightly reduced their
averages against the Australians by scoring 66 and 55
respectively at the Oval last week. When the figures for
the whole tour are worked out, it will be found that four
or five batsmen have “come off " with really remarkable
success in the big matches, in marked contrast to the un-
even performances of Lyons, Graham, Giffen, and Co.
And it is the average score, not the occasional tall innings,
that represents batting “form.” A painfully patriotic
daily press affects to consider that an Australian shows
his “true form” when he makes 100 runs, and gels out
through accident, or carelessness, when he doesn’t score
at all.
* * *
“ Affy ” Jarvis is credited with having written
to an Adelaide friend, complaining that he doesn’t get a
fair show with the bat.
* # #
An Australian in London writes The Bulletin,
saying that several members of the cricket team are
disgracing their country by their drunken and disorderly
conduct. Further, Manager Cohen is most intensely dis-
liked sevei’al of the best of the men, which circumstance
has been a powerful factor in disorganising the team.
# # #
Much disgust was expressed at the jockeying of
the ’Varsity men at Lord’s, Oxford, to get a “ follow on,”
and Cambridge to prevent them. The question was
solved by a Cambridge man bowling two deliberate wides
and a no-ball. He was hooted.
# * #
Australia, being a factor in the cricket world of
to-day, should hold out for a say in the next periodical
revision of tile rules by the Marylebone Club. Had the
present team been able to close its innings in the Univer-
sity match when the score was at, say, 450, a win could
have been easily obtained, while, under present rules, a
team could go on bowling wides all day to waste time and
sat e defeat.
# # •
The N.S.W. Government has at last put its feet
down upon the consultation business. Last week the
prominent “sweep” promoters were “ gazetted,” which
means, under the new Postal Act, that letters addressed
to the marked men will not be passed through the N.S.W.
Post Office.
* « *
New address to be pasted in numerous hats :
“Tattersall,” c/o George Adams, Daily Telegraph
Chambers, Queen-street, Brisbane, Q. The sweeps will
continue as of yore, the only difference being that Queens-
land will now pocket the big postal revenue of Which
N.S.W. has held a monopoly for so many years.
# # *
Some of the Sydney sweep-promoters, if driven
out of Brisbane by the parsons, who are organising for
the purpose, will operate from Noum6a.
• * *
N.S.W. Minister O’Connor’s reply to the
clerical deputation which waited upon him witli the
request that he would beetle-crunch all forms of gambling,
but especially church raffles, should have been curt and
incisive—“ This State does not dictate organic duties to
any Church; why should any Church dictate duties to
the State?” On the face of' it, Heaven seems an open
gamble, if the chance is square ; if predestination is a
verity, then you go betting on a certainty, which is
against the gambling code of honour. Minister O’Connor
might do worse than frame regulations for conducting
church raffles “on the square.”
# # •
Colonial Secretary Tozer (Q.) declares that he
doesn’t know the difference between a “double” and a
“sweep.” Let him look in a mirror. He will see that
there’s no difference.
# * *
It seems a contradiction that the A.J.C., which
is striving so hard in other respects to make pony-racing
illegitimate, looks calmly on at its starter, Mr. “Tom”
Watson, wielding the red flag at meetings of the little
’uns'.
* # *
The daily papers stated that the Bros. Miller
stayed away from Caulfield races on account of the death
of a relative, and said that it was rather hard luck, as
their horses won three races that day, that they were not
there to hack them. The Millers certainly were not in
the paddock, but some people say they saw them on the
Flat—and each of their horses was backed at a short
price.
# # *
Football in 1893. At Adelaide, recently, the
crowd knocked the field-umpire down, nearly broke his
leg, and hooted him when he was carried helpless to the
pavilion. The bookmakers, you sec, have poisoned Ihe
game. When a supporter loses his half-crown he takes it
out of the umpire.
# # #
Knowing ones predict that Frank Ives, the
American, will manage to “do” Roberts again in their
next bastard billiard-match. The fact of Frank stipulat-
ing for a further slight alteration in the size of the balls
suggests that he has thought out some more ways of
using his skill at the French game to the fullest advantage
on the pocket-table. Ives seems to be a champion at
everything lie tries—jockey, base-baller, roller-skater,
billiardist, &e. All the same Roberts is a brainy man,
who has gone into the new match with his eyes consider-
ably opened, and will be nerved by the presence of an un-
sympathetic audience when lie plays at Chicago. The
greater the occasion the bolter has Roberts always played,
up to now.
• « |*
To disqualify any horse or owner, no matter
how gross the roping, under the present slate of racing
about Sydney, savours of “kick him hard, he’s got no
friends.” There is a horse running weekly, owned by a
“big” man, who everyone knows can “walk in,” first
time his head is let go. It will be interesting to note if
his reversal of form will be inquired into when he romps
home some fine day.
# * #
George Hough, about the best of the old-time
Sydney pugilists, died at Emu Plains the pother day.
Hough fought the “colonial” giant, NedChalker, and when
a broken man suffered defeat at the hands of the terrible
Black Perry.
• • •
Two bookmakers’ pencillers, Montmorenci Reho-
boam and Isidor de Loanoffis (or names very like them),
who were said to stand to lose about £BOOO over the
double, Tim Swiveller and Trojan, stood themselves a
trip out of Victoria instead immediately the steeple was
decided.
* * *
At Canterbury (Sydney) on Saturday last,
Jeweller, second favourite for the Caulfield Cup, went out
for the Canterbury Handicap at 5 to 4, and was beaten by
Rarnaby Rudge. Mat Harris had the mount on the
favorite and rode an extraordinary race, to say the least of
it.
* • #
The Age, of 17th insb, stated that the Stan-
bury-Gaudaur contest had resulted in a victory for the
Australian by three lengths. In the same issue it said:
“Tire race between Stanbury and Gaudaur will be rowed
to-day.” While the Argus of the 18th gives a quarter of
a mile as tire distance separating the contestants at the
finish. Who is right?


Established 1876^
rr?
write Tor
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON
ASTHMA,
Q/
df
'Sydney Elliott Bros.)
Brisbane: Elliott Bro?t(°"''
e *CL
llingtohNZ. SharlanairC.
Sharland a C? . sits.
Treatise and Testimonials frets'
JiapyAMre^,
V
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.K.C.P. AND a
(Eecjisteked by the Medical Board of js .rf.W.)
Hay be consulted at flic moderate Bee of 2/0,
daily from 0.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of groat depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; wo hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to Our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BY
Dr. H, A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
Surgery.
JO guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth ,
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Db. DaLD'WIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
IMVIOORATg
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“ 1 think them such very
good stays, and those you sent lor my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON.” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. 0. Keli,v L.8.C.P., Ed in., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the hind for
improving' the carriage and appearance of the
flirure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist on
having our now long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtainiug from Diapers* write Patentee, 15,
olarcmout, Hastings, England.
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nenlly, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
CUTICURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skia
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and pob
<« ~r
w
Sp
n
v
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura. Reme
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
How to Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, sc
Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 500,; Cuticura Soap, 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. b. A.
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by Cuticura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap , and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, refl, and oily skin. r>
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C
3 .. r
ELECTRIC LAUNCH ''GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. by 7ft. 3ii).
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager,
.ENHAM. ENGLAND.
ECZEMA,
SALT-RHEXJM,
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when
the remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Bead the following testimonial from Mr. R. H.
Stahd, a respectable citizen of Des Moines, lowa,
U S.A. He says: “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
-
n
&
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Wo tried it, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great change for the
better was noticeable. We continned the treat-
ment, and a thorough cure was the result.”
“ My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheuin,
was comp’etely cured by the use of Ayer’s Sarsap-
arilla."— Maria H. dr Bins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer &Co. , Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
Don’t fish for sharks in a rain-barrel
but print your advertisement where it will be seen. “In
my travels in Australia I found Tub Bulletin every-
where, and everywhere found it powerful,” wrote David
Christie Murray in the London Contemporary Review.
That is true. The universality of The Bulletin’s circula-
tion in Australasia is the envy of all other papers. In and
beyond Australia, THE Bulletin, now' in its fourteenth
year of issue, is the most popular, best-known, best-
quoted, and most widely and numerously circulated of all
Australasian publications.
KIKMAN’S IHIIIDINtiS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
6
ENA M BLEED CABIN BT
PORTRAITS
5/-
Thc Xc\\" Panel Portrait,
Sizp, x 7 in.,
Jos. j‘j: n/>ox /; a. / fjS.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
Magnificent cauliflowers in Molb., Id.
The Australian Agricultural 00. (head-
quarters really London) owns 1,051,040 acres of
N.S.W. land.
Graves decorated with medicine -bottles
used by the deceased in his last illness are common
in many American negro cemeteries.
John Cornier, who awaits the coming of
the hangman in Melbourne Gaol, was suffering
from a slight attack of paralysis last week.
“ Solitude has charms,” wrote Bulwer to
his wife. She dropped in on him unexpectedly,
and found Solitude (in white muslin) sitting on
his knee.
Clayton, the Melbourne City Council’s
substitute for the departed Fitzgibbon, simply
signs himself, “Town Clerk.” The title of
“Recorder” adopted by the former Czar, has
evidently vanished with him.
Nineteen ladies, all of “ unblemished
character” (if their solicitors’ defence is to be
believed), have just been fined in Melbourne for
selling bottled beer at from ss. to 10s. a bottle.
One Hayne, the other day, was run over
by a cart-wheel, unknown, in Spring-street, Mclb.
and was laid out by someone unknown on the
Treasury steps to die, which he did.
A South Melbourne man, who prides him-
self upon his well-kept front garden, rashly
advertised the other day for a complete set of a
a certain book published by subscription.
From 6 a.m. till midnight the place re-
sembled the Divorce Court at the hearing
of a specially dirty case. The man’s gate was
taken off its hinges, his garden was trodden
out of recognition, one of his children was
seriously injured in the crush, and he had to lock
himself in his bedroom and harangue the seething
mob from the window—and get a loaf of bread
thrown up from the street to prevent himself
from starving.
Dear Bulletin, —In these days of forced
economy and justifiable retrenchment, why doesn’t
N.S.W. Minister-Copeland retrench the Inspectors
of Homestead Leases? Their so-called “inspec-
tion ” must, in the very nature of things, be all
bunkum and a work of supererogation. Western
resumed areas are more or less honeycombed with
dummy homestead leases, but has a single one of
them at any time been bowled out ? Never !
Members of Land Boards, in their private capa-
cities, know all about it, and some of them in
private actually allude to individuals as “So-and-
So, Sliprail’s dummy!” Employers of dummies
always seem to know when the inspector is on his
tour, fires are lit in the cold chimneys of the little
dummy lints, old boots and socks are thrown
about, both inside and out, a makeshift
bed is made up, firewood piled in a heap,
and an old billy slung—all for inspection!
Yet the thing is done so barefacedly that some
squatters always make the contracts themselves
with the contractors, who are engaged putting up
the fences on the dummies’ homestead leases, pay
the contractors in their own cheques, and per-
sonally “ boss ” the job themselves ! It's as clear
as daylight, only people won’t see it. Why, I’ve
known an inspector of homestead leases, in asking
his way to one of the isolated “huts,” say—“ I
wonder if he’s at home? He’s So-and-so’s
blank!tty dummy, ain’t he?” The billets are so
ridiculously unnecessary, as the regulations are
never carried out, that on the grounds of economy
I suggest their immediate retrenchment. —P.
A gruesome tale is that from Honolulu
about the recent battle between the local troops
and the lepers of Kalalau. The Government
decided to shift the denizens of Kalalau to the
great leper settlement at Molokai, and the sheriff
went to the valley to give them notice to quit.
But the infected gang declined to move, and
killed the miserable officer, and troops were there-
fore sent to clear the dead-alive horrors out of
their den and start them on the road to their new
tomb. Then the men and the odd scraps of
partially - decayed humanity objected, and a
desperate conflict ensued. Sundry soldiers were
killed, and one family of lepers broke through the
cordon and escaped to the mountains, where they
have so far avoided capture. In Hawaii the leper,
if he realises his situation before the authorities
suspect him, always sets out for the mountains
to avoid the inevitable exile to Molokai. Then
the police start after him—or her—and as there is
a standing reward for such cases, they generally
make a capture. Still, a few sift through their
fingers, therefore the traveller in the lonesome and
picturesque parts of the archipelago, who rouses a
hermit on a hillside, does well not to follow him
up. Hermits, in these regions, are seldom healthy.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Broken Hill (N.S.W.), during its ’9l-’2
water - famine, cooled its parched tongue with
trainloads of water from South Australia, the
authorities of which province declined to deal
with the B. H. Council, but arranged for pay-
ment with the N.S.W. Government. Wise were
they in their generation. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment empowered the B. H. Council to distribute
the water at from 7s. to Bs. per 100 gal., and
collect and remit the money. The Council col-
lected the cash all right and banked it to a
separate account. But, when “a bit short,” the
Council 1 ‘borrowed”.£looo from this trust account;
when “shorter,” it “borrowed” more; and it liked
the new gold-mine so well that it cleaned it
out in instalments. Suddenly, the S. A. Govern-
ment sent to N.S.W. a bill for .£5OOO, “ for water
supplied and carriage of. the same,” and Premier
Dibbs howls at the B.H. corporation for the
amount in question. That municipal body was
equal to the emergency. It met, and promptly
and unanimously resolved that consideration
of the matter be postponed. Two or three rate-
payers’ attempts to audit the municipal accounts
have been bravely blocked, as the corporation does
not wish “ the business of the municipality to be
upset.” Two special Government auditors from
Sydney arrived at the Hill some time ago, and
demanded the Council’s books, but they went
back metropolis-wards with, it is understood, a
flea in each eai.
Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sets £5. AVarranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Be-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations ftee. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (Georgc-street entrance.)
Writes the “National”: “Magazine-news-
papers are the best to advertise in. An advertisement
which is not n ad does no good, and most daily papers are
only half read before they make way for their successors.
The paper that is read from end to end,” like The Bulle-
tin, “is the sheet-anchor of profitable advertising.” A
good, original weekly, not a hideous jumble of reprinted
stale news spiced with observations about horse-colic and
turnip-diseases, is the best medium. Every man knows
that he skims over a daily, at breakfast or on a tram-car.
He never reads it through. But Ids favourite weekly is
mentally laid aside for an hour of leisure, and then he
reads it, and reads it right through. The Bulletin cir-
culates everywhere in Australasia, and even sells 300
copies weekly in South Africa. Let the business man
personally observe, or ask his traveller or his travelling
friend to keep his eyes open and say which paper is the
most widely-circiliated in this continent. There can be
but one answer— The Bulletin.


IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
the skin and complexion
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2a. 6d.
M. BEETHAM&SON, Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
AN®
J{ Perfect Food,
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
>
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of miik, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked.
no milk is to be added ; it is quick!)
an! readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In
fauts. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk,’
—Lancet. April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants. ’
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Jink will keep indefinitely in ar.y climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Eluott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO,, 39, SNOW Hill, Loncon, E.O.
* PALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM
X PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
MATCH IT!
Herb Follows Just a Sample of What the
Greatest Remedy for Pain can do in a
Case of Chronic Rheumatism.
A CRIPPLED BOY.
A few years ago, Messrs. George 0. Osgood and
Co., druggists, Lowell, Mass., wrote to The
Charles A. YogelerCo., as follows. —Mr. Lewis
Dennis, 136, Moody-street, desires to recommend
St. Jacobs Oil to any afflicted with rheumatism,
as he has obtained benefit by using it, but he
desires especially to say, that “ Orin Robinson, of
Grantville, Mass., a boy of twelve years, came to
his house in the summer of 1881, walking on
crutches, his left leg being bent back. He could
not walk upon it. Mr. Dennis had some St.
Jacobs Oil in the house, and gave it to him to rub
on his knee. In six days he had no use for
crutches, and went home well without them, and
he has been well since. St. Jacobs Oil cured
him.”
CONCLUSION —NO RELAPSE.
“Lowell, Mass., July 9, 1887. Gentlemen—
Mr. Lewis Dennis has just csflled upon me, and
informs me of the boy Orin Robinson, who was a
poor cripple on crutches, and was cured by St.
Jacobs Oil in 1881; the cure has remained per-
manent. The young man has been and is now at
work every day at manual labour, a case certainly
which proves the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil._ Mr.
Dennis tells me also that he had rheumatism in
his knee; tried many remedies, but of no use; and
it cured the rheumatism permanently, as it has
not troubled him for years.”—Geo. 0. Osgood,
M.D.
IN SHORT,
By this showing St. Jacobs Oil cui’es the worst
chronic and crippled cases ; cures promptly, cures
permanently; in this ease without recurrence of
pain in six years intervening since 1881. Sold by
all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Too posssess a RELIABLE TIMEKEEPER
at the MINIMUM of COST, you must BUY A
WATERBURY. MR. GEO. BUTLER, of
Moouta, S.A., writing under date June 15, 1893,
states: “I have carried no other watch than a
Waterbury for the last five years, and have
always found it a good and reliable timekeeper.”
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
* BO X
df
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN S SWEET;
OQ7irfJL cJ<xrruz/tstfS. <*
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C.
ANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES’
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
NOTICE is hereby given that a SPECIAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders of
the BANK will be held at the Chief Banking
House, George-street, SYDNEY, on WEDNES-
DAY, the 27th day of SEPTEMBER Next, at
Noon, to consider the propriety of increasing the
capital of the Bank, by the creation of new
shares.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, July 31, 1893.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for £W
19s. Gd.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7 ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for <£so.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTKADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS,
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS,
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVFS (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
M A NUF A CTU RERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 66.] [Established 1860.
WM ; AYTOUN SILVER.-As your mothe r
t » is dead, and your sister anxious to hea r
from you, please communicate with the under'
signed. Any person supplying reliable informa'
tion of the present address of the abovenamed if
living, or certificate of death if dead, will receive
£lO, on application to Manager, Union Bank,
Maryborough, Queensland.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893.
NAMBEOK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of Ml each.
The Only Agricultural Property Distribution!
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments !
“ NAMBROK.”
Scliedule of Properties:
mmk
;■:
-
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated value £12,000
Also, 59 Properties „ each 1,050
5 » it from £560 to 990
>» >» 340
KTambrok House.
On 15th JULY, only £20,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representatives of iho Pre«n
fail in NOVEMBER, and results will be duly advertised. All moneys are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure/ P. P LABERTOTJCHF Fso Ulff,ollf
C. M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J. WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z. EABEKiUUOHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major
The FIRST BALLOT will be from the “ NAMBItOK.” Estate, which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best seWHrm /„„♦ f
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate. P properties ot the best selection (out of a total of
APPLICATIONS for SHARES-should be made by Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
o/o J. H. A STROP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
State amount forwarded, and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply (two, if
results required direct). Do not attach stamps if other than N.S.W, Add exchange if payment is
made by cheque.
N. P. In the case of the extra =£20,700 not being subscribed by November, the best value of pro-
perly for the amount subscribed will bo included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate per-
centage of bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per cent, short, the Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed the Shareholders.
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
• i'w * J!<
PLEASE ALLOT me
.Shares,
Name
Address
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co.
C O J. H. AS T HOP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Conskll Street, SYDNEY", N.S.W.
J-' HEFEKENf ’ICS can bo uiadfe to the well-known Finns ot Messrs, ALEXANDER NVII.SUN it CO., u[ Sydney, aurl Messrs. RICHARD NEWTON & CO., of Brisbane.
Balm in Gilead.
(FOR TH E BULLETIN.)
As a nation wo have borrowed
Every penny we could get,
And wo vainly squirm and wi igglo,
Over head and ears in debt.
Wo have spent the borrowed money,
Wo have squandered our estate,
We have readied the stage insolvent,
And are now repenting late.
We have built expensive prisons
Disproportionod to our crime.
We have raised great public buildings
Scarcely needed in our time.
We have spanned our creeks with bridges
Where a ford would answer well,
We have planted schools palatial
Where the free selectors dwell.
We have made a dozen railways
That were never made to pay,
And resumed, at cost of millions,
Land the State once gave a a ay.
We have given thief and boo.llcr,
Company, and syndicate,
Golden chances to grow richer
By the bleeding of the State.
We have done a thousand wrong things
And but few things passing well,
Though our matchless resolutions
Tesselate the road to Hell.
Is there any balm in Gilead ?
In the cloud is there a gleam ?
Is there hope of any headway
As we pull against the stream ?
Though the pessimist has risen
In his might, and prophesied,
We believe that in the future
We shall see the turning tide.
We shall see our people living
Not on easily-borrowed gold ;
We shall see them self-reliant,
As they were in days of old.
We shall breed in our Australia
Muscles fit for any tod,
Brains to g'uide the nascent nation,
Hands to till the teeming soil.
Wc shall wrest from each outsider
All he cannot fairly hold ;
We shall scorn to sell our birthright
For a foreign people’s gold.
We shall learn to speak with plainness
When a traitor holds the helm ; .
Public judgment shall confound him.
Public wrath shall overwhelm.
He whose aspirations lead him
To the front in court or trade,
Must be metal of the truest
In the public balance weighed.
Does he fight for self?—dismiss him
Of his peacock feathers shorn ;
Is he false to truth or virtue,
Lash him with the whip of scorn.
Does he love his land and virtue,
Does he take the toilers’ part,
Give him, brothers, your allegiance,
Take him closer to your heart.
M.


uiiKi
ilZJiifci.
iyonW WJ
msm
PILLBUACE
m
PilU
yeiOMUWaVEDiSEASES
\Ti
- r <v.' : rc
ikri*
►l*l', % 1
■A
Bwl .
erf 111
'• A/i'v
ll
&T
&=»*
cao
Herr RASSMUSSBN’S,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT;
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-slreet, Sidney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFA LINE
VITALITY FILLS arc without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there'are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigcrator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
say that his Remedies have cured more than al 1 others put
together for the same complaint.
Tlie ALFA LI YE VITALITY FILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. J-S?” A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WAKYlNG.—lmitators will be Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
ho Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
imoisnss!
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ASiFAIaIMEI
VITALITY PILLS.
dfg
AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
MEDALS
PILLS, j
O)
&
Hi
Jr
iy<y\
ILL
ALFA LINE! . . Mcauec
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u MERVES.
Special Powerful Coarse, 435, (id., posted, Ordinary Coarse, 235, (id. Poxes, (is. (tad 12s,
RegisteredL and Ftirely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials
' SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as bis
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all-other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”— N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland."— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfalinc Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3-, 6/-, 12 - and 23 6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3-, 0-,12 - and 23 6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer,
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 8 • and 6-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3 -
and (> '-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1•; posted, 16.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 10.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/-; posted, 1/6 and 26.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6. ■
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD,
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed lo Cure
BLOOD - DISEASKS, SKIX AFFKCTTONS,
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS.
BLOTCHES, AX'D OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD. ~
Boxes —Os. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. Gd.
Special Powerful Course, 433. 6d.
Alfaline Leucorrhoea Powders.
For the Whites. Psstcd, 3 - and 0/- per Box..
Alfaline External Invigorator
Boxes, (i - posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Po-ted,
One Shilling.
Herr HASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT: 547 GCOrgC StrCCt, SydflCy.
-A-HLSO AT HIS BRANCHES -
150 Bourbe Street, Melbourne. ! 160 Queen Street, Brisbane. | 154 Bundle Street, Adelaide, i9l Lambton Quay, Wei’ton, N.
171011 SALE (Cheap).— Quad-Demy Two-feeder
H WHAKFEDALE PRINTING PRESS, by
Dawson and Sons. In good order. Apply
Manager, this office; or to John Close, Engineer,
3U3 Kent street, Sydney.
■n
■#/
».?■
p- /
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
houis”
Velveteen
Rich and rat'd
hew colours for
present wear.
♦♦♦♦♦
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK.
~ The World Renowned
“ T GUIS” VELVETEEN has this in its favour,
I i besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL. —Each yard of genuine “Louis" Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-IJ-I S', and in no other way,
and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject all substitutes.
df
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, ns Well as active
, enough for the strongest,donotafter
wards constipate but by their general action please all wire
tire them. The standard PU of the U. 8. Medical Profes-
: on. ■Ti e smallest and easiest to take. Forty in a phial.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
df
B ACS AM
18 A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 Jd. 2s. 9d.,
4s. Cd., and lls
Prepared only by A. HAVMAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
An ents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung&Oo.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Amusements.
Theatre royal.
Lessee Mr. S. LAZAK.
Under the Management of Mr, FRED. MEREDITH.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“THE WO 111.1) AGAINST HIM.”
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ;
Family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, GEORGE BULLER.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Kignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“ XiICJEI FOR X.IF’B.”
A Cast of Exceptional Excellence includes Miss Jennie
Lee, Miss Myra Kemble, Her Majesty’s Dramatic
Company, and Geo. Darrell.
•Saturday, August 26-“ CONFUSION.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt'Street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA GO.
Last nights! last nights!
of
“The 01 c3L Guar H,’’
Next Production—“ lOLANTHE.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
QRITERION THEATRE.
GRAND OPENING OF DRAMATIC SEASON.
SATURDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER, the Popular Tragedian,
Walter Bentley,
in
BULWER LYTTON’S GREAT HISTORICAL DRAMA,
“ RICHELIEU.”
fcSgr’ CAREFULLY SELECTED COMPANY,
The Performance will be under the Patronage of Plis
Excellency the Governor and Lady Duff.
New and Magnificent Scenery' by W. SPONG.
Gorgeous Dresses.
Stage Furnishing by Wallach Bros.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, opens Monday the 28th at
10 a,in. PRICES AS USUAL.
SCHOOL OF ARTS
Lessee .. .. Mr. Gilbert J. Smith.
Under the Management of Mr. F. E- Hiscocks.
Director , Mr. Travers-Valc.
THE EVENT OF THE YEAH.
Commencing SATURDAY, AUGUST 26th.
Direct from America.
The World-Famed, Marvellous
STEENS 'r Amerir.ii Mystiiicr* i STEENS
The Weird Wonder Workers.
Prices.—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
CHEAP IVI USI C.
PRINCESS MAY WALTZ, with Portrait of H.R.11. The
Duchess of York, and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets,
&c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
QRITERION THEATRE
Proprietor .. .. Mr. George Hill.
Agent .. .. Mr. Mnjnv,
Willi a view of maintaining the reputation enjoyed hv-
the CRITERION for the High Ch racter of its Entertain*
ments, the Management announces with much graliflc •
tion that arrangim-nts have been completed for a
Special Season of Nine Nights,
Which will be devoted to a Series of
Unique (Musical (performances
In which the following Famous Artistes will appear ;
BESSIE DOY EE,
The Young, Charming and Brilliant Australian Violinist e
Together with
Mr W. D’EXSEM,
The Great Baritone, who will make his First Appearance
in Sydney, and introduce his Highly Artistic Enter-
tainment, entitled,
PICTURE, SONG and STORY,
Illustrated by a Series of SUPERB VIEWS by tbe Newest
Process of the OXY ETHER LIGHT.
THE D’ENSEM-DOYLE COMPANY
■* Also Comprises
Miss EDITH MOORE, Principal Soprano,
Mr. HENRY HAWKINS, R.A.M.
Mr. J. G. MARSHALL, Scenoscopic Operator.
Constituting one of the most
NOVEL, BRILLIANT, INTELLECTUAL,
DELIGHTFUL, and HIGH-CLASS
Entertainments ever Presented to a Sydney Audience.
Box Plan Now ©pen at Nicholson’s. Prices as Usual.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, August 22, 18D3.
r I LENDER S FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
J SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazettr.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER fi.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with troh
Piers, over the Murrumbidgee River at Wagga
Wagga
Pipelaying, contract No 5, Moss Vale Water
Supply
Pipelaying, contract No. 4, Nowra Water Supply
Bathroom, Lavatories, &c., Coast Hospita', Little
Bay
Erection of Water-closets, &c., General Post Office
Drainage Works, Sandgate Cemetery, Newcastle
NOTE. —Tenderers are warned not to begin any
work until they receive the official acceptance of
their oiler in the usual way. The Department
will accept no responsibility contracted by a
tenderer prior to receiving the official acceptance
referred to, and any liability incurred, or any
work undertaken, will bo solely at the risk of
tenderers, and will nob be paid for.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Put not your trust in princes, nor yet in
wool-kings, neither in horse-owners, or mine-
owners, or in anybody or in anything, in fact, but
yourself and a safe-deposit. This seems a lesson
of the time. But never was it borne out so
thoroughly as in the case of old Jos. Pickersgill,
now laid by the heels in a ward of Melb. hospital.
Times were when Jos. could keep a city of sick
folk alive, when he was wooed of many a
fat - paunched, heavy - pursed dullard, when,
neglecting all his own proper concerns, he
became jester at a sort of wool-kings’ court,
and a right good jester too. Many a one he kept
alive whom gout had lashed on the rack, or blue
devils held hard in chase. Now Jos. is sick, now
Jo*, is old, now Jos. is abed and adying, and will
anyone of them all keep him merry? Not one.
Old Jos. is dead to all the world, save kind-hearted
Dr. Pat Moloney, who sees that the hospital does
all for him that it may. Old Dick Goldsborough
left the old fellow a bit of a legacy, but that is
amongst the Jews, for Jos. was not wise. He was
a fool, in short, but, more than that, he was at
bottom tender and true. Can any man with sin-
cerity say as much of any of the wool-brained
gambling crew, who now in his last days withhold
from him payment of their just debts ?
The Columbian Land Distribution Co.
have shown us an elaborately got-up circular, con-
taining, amongst other matter, Well-executed
views of the Nambrok estate, Gippsland, from
photographs lately taken on the spot. Iho pro-
duction is a credit to its printers, Messrs, iurner
and Henderson, of Hunter-street, Sydney, and
proves convincingly what a really valuable pro-
perty the promoters are offering to the public.
We understand a very large number have been
posted, but anyone not having received a copy
should apply at once to the Company, O’Connell-
street, Sydney, where shares, which are only <£l
each, and are selling freely, can also be obtained.
For further particulars, see half-page advt. in this
issue.
The London Dental Institute, which claims
to have revolutionised the science of dentistry, has
opened an establishment at 98 King-street, Sydney,
where oocrations requiring the highest skill are
hourly performed at marvellously low rates. Abso-
lutely painless denistry is brought within the
means of the poor, and, although the most
elaborate and difficult requirements are as easily
met at the Institute as the humbler needs, the
much-neglected first principle of dentistry—-the
saving of the natural teeth—is cardinally observed,
wherever possible. All consultations are abso-
lutely free, and a complete “set’ or “jawful,
warranted for five years, can be obtained for
£\ Is. (A “mouthful ”is two “jawfuls,” or two
“sets”—upper and lower.) There is a general
wailing-room, while there are three surgeries-all
magnificently furnished and electrically lighted.
The operators are all men holding the highest
dentistry diplomas, and the best work only—the
latest improvements in “bridge” and “crown”
work, 14 pi vetting,” &c. —is executed at the most
moderate prices possible. There are lady attend-
ants available. Patients can, at pleasure, be sub-
jected to anaesthetics, but the Institute guarantees
absolutely painless operations by the aid of
electrical and mechanical appliances.


Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Pears
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
I
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince «f Wales
The Ghostly Bullock-Bell.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Let’s go on to the next water,” said Dick im-
patiently.
“ Why, it’s seven miles, and one of our horses is
quite lame. No, this place is good enough for
mo,” I returned.
Dick grumbled ; but as there was reason on ray
side he had to give in, and we were soon un-
saddled. Usually a very even-tempered fellow
my companion seemed strangely put out about
something. I did not-take much notice—men
often get “cranky” in the bush. He smoked
silently long after our blankets were down, and
then I dropped off to sleep and left him staring
moodily into the fire.
“ I was only a boy ! ”
1 awoke With the words ringing in my ears. The
moon had risen, but it was a late moon, and
seemed only to make the dark shadows darker,
and add to the general loneliness around us.
Dick was standing near the dead fire with his
hand stretched out as though keeping something
at bay. The sickly light of the dying moon did
not reveal his face, but his whole attitude ex-
pressed supreme horror.
“What oh earth is itV* 1 asked, getting up
with a thumpittg heart.
He laughed strangely and said, “ Listen ! Can’t
you hear them ? ”
1 listened. Some curlews were wailing dismally,
a nd that was all; as I told him. Curlews always
do begin to sing out when the moon rises.
“No, no!” he said, “not that; listen again.”
I did so. Now, whether it was mere fancy stimu-
lated by my companion’s strange manner and my
sudden waking, I don’t know, but it seemed that
I distinctly heard a deep-toned bullock-bell. toll
slowly and monotonously, as when a belled bullock
licks him,self.
“ Pah !” I said, “ it’s a lost worker.”
'“ls it?” he answered with a repetition of his
ipieer laugh., “ Go to sleep again, old man, it’s
hothing to do with you.”
The bell, if it was a bell, had ceased, and as I
still , felt drowsy I drew my blankets over my
shoulders and soon dozed off. When I awoke
again it was broad daylight.
Dick was very silent all that day (we were
on our way back to the station after delivering
some fat cattle at L .)
“ Do you believe in warnings?” he asked, when
we were camped again that night.
“ Presentiments V,’
“ Yes, that’s it. Because I’ve gob one. I
shan’t see this trip out.”
“O, bosh !” I naturally replied.
, “It was at that last camp I killed my young
brother.”
I thought Dick had gone mad, for he was one of
the best-natured of men, but he proceeded, as if
he had to tell his story :
“ I was only sixteen, and he was a little chap of
twelve, but quite different from the rest of us.
Very willing and sweet-tempered, but shy, and
read every book he could get hold of. Well, at
that time dad was doing a bit of carrying, and as
he was laid up with rheumatism he sent me on a
trip with the team, for I was a dandy bull-puncher
even then. He told me to take Ben along and try
and make a man of him. You know what cruel
brutes boys are. I soon found out that Ben was
frightened of going away from the camp in the
dark and made up my mind to cure him, and so
bullied and chivvied him that the poor little beggar
became as nervous as a girl.
“Now, there’sayarn hanging to that place where
we camped last night-something as to murder
done by the blacks in the old time. Ben knew
every story there was about the country and could
tell them well, too. Of course he had heard this
tale. Now the place was haunted by the ghost
of a woman who was always searching for her
child who had been killed by the natives.
“ I made up my mind to cure Ben once and for
all. In the middle of the night I woke him and
told him that we wanted to start early, so he must
go and bring the bullocks up close to the camp.
‘ There they are,’ I said, ‘ you can hear the bell.’
“ The poor little cove looked at me with great
big eyes and shivered, for the bullock just then
began to lick himself and his bell tolled out like
a clock one, two, three, up to twelve, and
stopped. He begged and prayed me to wait until
daylight, but I hunted him off with the bullock-
whip and followed him up for a bit to make sure
he went.
“It was all quiet for a while, but just about the
time he would have reached them I heard that
bell again, toll out solemnly. Then came such a
shriek ! I heard it distinctly, though he must
have been some way off. I tell you I did feel sorry
and ran as hard as I could shouting to him. Half-
way I met the bullocks coming up to the camp
like mad, but the bell was not amongst them. I
had great trouble in finding Ben, for he was on
the grass in a dead faint, and the moonlight was
not strong. I carried him up to camp and he was
an awful sight. His arm was stretched out quite
stiff, as if to keep something off, and the poor
boy’s face was all drawn up with fright and his
eyes wide open and staring.
“ It was a long time before I brought him round,
and when I did he was quite silly, and he never
got right again, blit died soon afterwards.”
Dick was silent and so was I.
“ Did you find the bullook-bell ? ” I asked at
last.
“ No, and I should like to know who rang that
bell—and who rang it last night?” he asked.
“You heard it, too ! The yarn about the niggers
goes,” he went on after another pause, “ that they
sneaked up to the hut ringing a bullock-bell that
they had found so that if the people heard any
noise they Would fancy it was some stray
workers.”
•a•« " • a
Dick did not see the end of that trip. We
stopped next night at a wayside pub., and he
drowned his remorse in rum. Worse still, he fell
in maudlin love with a girl there, and Peter, the
tush-missionary, turning up—he got married.
She is a perfect devil, and when last I saw Dick
he was thin as a rake. Better for him had the
presentiment been fulfilled in the orthodox way.
DELOOMYN.
North Melbourne policeman : “ The
prisoner was coming out the back-door of the shop,
your Worships, and he had a lighted candle in his
hand which appeared to have been recently ex-
tinguished.”
“ Two men took up pastoral holdings in
the back country. One of them, whose rent had
been .£lOOO a year, spent £15,000 in improving
the property, and had his rent increased on re-
appraisement to £llOO a year, whilst his neighbour,
who did nothing, actually had the rent of his land
reduced.” —Ex.
“Well have peace, if we fight for it.”—
Hibernian.
“ I never yet saw a Scotchman wearing a
kilt in Scotland unless he was paid to do it by an
Englishman. Campbell-Bannerman, M.l.
A packing-case-maker suicided lately at
Rotherhithe (Eng.) through want of employment,
leaving this gruesome memo, in his hat: “ It is
hard when you have got to work hard, live hard,
die hard, and go to Hell at last.
One N. B. Downing, lecturing in Sydney
Protestant Hall, said that Leo XIII. was
the leader of the Home Rulers, ,and Cardinal
Vaughan was working poor old Gladstorie, and
was really the Premier of England. Now, Vaughan
happens to be owner of the anti-Irish arid anti-
Home Rule paper, the Londori Tablet, and there
is scarcely a Home Rulet- among the English
Catholics. Also, Lord Morris, a R.C., has been
lately stamping Ulster with Messrs. Salisbriry and
sons.
Among all the eulogistic obituaries on the
dead Guy de Maupassant not one noticed his
great fictional departure, a villain who never
renders himself amenable to the law. In “The
Ladies’ Man ” (a book, by the way, proscribed iri
Victoria by Premier Patterson when Commis-
sionerof Customs), Maupassant portrays a cool,
calculating scoundrel, unredeemed by a single
good quality, but who on no occasion risks gaol,
He makes love to each of his friend’s wives in
succession, with no desire but that of self-advance-
ment and financial profit, and ultimately marries
the daughter of one of his mistresses and her
handsome dot.
Dear Bulletin, —Now that Malietoa has
knocked out old fighting-cock Mataafa, the Apian
creditors of His Majesty by the Grace of Justice
Cedercrantz are having sweet visions. Malietoa,
ever since his boyhood, had ample facilities given
him by the trading firms of getting into debt. He
availed himself of it by “getting at” nearly
everybody. Not two hundred yards from The
Bulletin office can be found a man who,
in ’B2, supplied Malietoa with Winchester
rifles and ammunition to the extent of £4OOO
on his IO U. The consuls knew he had offered
the arms for sale to the king, and forbade him to
sell them. He then fixed up this dodge:—The
whole lot, with 50,000 cartridges, were landed
and stored by an American for despatch out of
the country first chance. A few nights afterwards
the place was burglariously entered, and the whole
lot “stolen.” But the seller had meanwhile re-
ceived a document from the King and Faipule
(Parliament), guaranteeing him the Customs dues
for three years, and the burglars seemed to have
presented the arms to Malietoa, as next day every
man had a Winchester or Snider. These very arms
enabled him to maintain his supremacy till the
Germans exiled himtotheCameroons. About 81000
of the debt was paid in a few months; after that
Malietoa went “broke,” but honourably paid the
interest on the rest for a couple of years, when his
white advisers induced him to cease paying. The
trader in question, not having had any interest
since 1884 from Malietoa, is now beginning to
lose confidence in His Majesty’s commercial
integrity, and during the week of self-denial
offered the writer the privilege of going to Samoa,
collecting the debt and interest, and keeping it.—
Yours, Tupe.
At Cowra (N.S'W.) cemetery is a head-
stone inscribed—“ Mr. I. M‘Dermott, Esq., J.P.”
Lowe Sherbrooke, in opposing Disraeli’s
Government, told a public meeting that Queen
Victoria had vainly tried to persuade Palmerston
and Gladstone to get her proclaimed Empress of
India.
Admiral Tryon’s mother was famous for
pushing her sons on in the Service. She gob
George into the Royal Yacht, after which he was
a made man. One of his brothers was killed at
Sebastopol, and replaced by another, who wielded
a tremendous sword, which no one else could
tackle.
As an object-lesson on the disadvantages
of monarchy, that pre-eminently snobbish bogus
“ Liberal ” paper, the Illustrated London News
(its managing-proprietor has jusj; been tiiade a
baronet), publishes a large? sheet called “ The
Royal Oak,” the branches of which bear portraits
of the Duke of York’s countless relatiohs—mostly
pensioners on the public purse of Great Britain,
£hey are all there down semi-riude little
Battenberg, labelled “ Not yet christened. One
unfortunate mistake has been made-the tree stops
»hort at the ground The roots are not shown-
the harlot court of the Stuarts the gnm-visaged
mistresses of German George, the bastard Fitzes,
and all the rest of the brood of vampires who go
towards making up a royal family !
Dear Bulletin, — He the Morgan-Sleath
affair : “Pistol’s” version confourided the Morgan-
gleath and the Sleath-Howell iricidents. Here
are f ac ts; In a speech, pn July 6, Sleath
alluded to Colonel Morgan as having been “fool-
islily and stupidly drunk ” during some excitement
on the previous day. This was followed by an
ultimatum from Colonel Morgan, which Sleath
openly stated—arid it was never contradicted—
was an intimation that, failing an apology for the
untruth, he would, in good American fashion,
pot the Labour-leader on sight. On July 9 the
two Broken Hill dailies contained the apologies,
In one of them Sleath says he had been misin-
formed by “ a gentleman holding a high official
position,” and it winds up as follows:—“He
(Sleath) trusts that under the circumstances
the British manager will not carry out his
sanguinary intentions against the unfortunate
‘agitator,’ who has no desire at present to quit
the scene of his tribulations.” Anyone who knows
“Dick ” will know what it must have cost him to
apologise at all, especially when he was nothing
less than a dictator in a small way and was
denouncing all and sundry to his heart’s content,
Less than a week afterwards—more trolly de-
quence—Sleath fell foul of Proprietary Howell.
That was a horse of another colour. Howell,
though a Yank, was not one of the Texas-Jack
variety and hadn’t a pistol reputation like Morgan,
Sleath didn’t apologise this time; he would accept
Howell’s challenge, he said, for “ brickbats at 1000
yards.” That Sleath really feared being potted by
Morgan seems incredible, but it is true, neverthe-
less. Sleath’s excuse that he was misinformed by a
“gentleman holding a high official position ” was
weak, as he was present on the occasion he alluded
to and addressed the crowd just after the Colonel
did, and could have judged as well as anyone else
whether the British mine-manager was drunk or
not. Though the strike lasted nearly five months
longer I did not again hear Colonel Morgan’s
name mentioned on the Reserve, though other
managers came in for plenty of comment.—Yours,
Galena, Broken Hill, July 31.


Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
5
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly ‘Berber's Food’ entirely saved
baby s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
44
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co and Rocke Tomp<?itt Sr uiu ~
and the A™.Dane Compaq Sydney; * Co., a’nd
Dunedin; Berk,.ev, 1 avlor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale Retail Houses
A New Girl up at White’s.
A SAW-MILLER’S LAMENT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There’s a fresh track ’cross the paddock,
Through the light woods, to the creek,
An’ I notice Billy Craddock
An’ Maloney do not speak,
An’ The Snag is slyly bitter
When remarking things of Bill,
An’ there’s quite a foreign glitter
On the fellers at the mill.
Sid M‘Mahon’s turned out a dandy
With a masher coat an’ tie,
An’ the engine-driver, Sandy,
Curls his whiskers on the sly,
All the boys climb into collars
An’ their tombstone shirts of nights,
So it naturally foilers
There’s a new girl up at White’s,
She’s a charmer from the river,
But she steeps the lads in gloom,
With her blue eyes all a-quivet
And her hair like wattle-bloom ;
Though she is bright and beguilin’,
An’ so lit up, like, with fun
That the flowers turn to her, smilin’,
J eat es if she was the sun.
But I wish she’d leave the valley,
For the camp is dull to me,
Now the fellers never rally
For the regulation spree,
An’ there’s not another joker
Gives a tinker’s curse for nap.,
Or will take a hand at poker,
Or at euchre with a chap !
Ben don’t exercise his fiddle
’Fore the boilers as he did,
While Bob steps it in the middle,
An’ we pass the billy-lid.
Ah ! we had some gay old nights there,
But the boys now don’t agree,
An’ they sling about at White’s there,
When they’ve togged up after tea.
With the gloves we have no battle,
Now they sneak away an’ moon
Round with White, disenssm’ cattle,
All the Sunday afternoon.
There’s a want of old uprightness,
Too, has come upon the push,
An’a sort of cold politeness
Thet’s not called for in the bush.
They’re all off, too, in that quarter;
Kate goes sev’ral times a week
Vis’tin’ Andy Kelly’s daughter,
Jimmy’s sister, up the creek ;
An’ this dif’rence seems a pity,
Seein’ their chances are so slim—
While they’re runnin’ after Kitty,
She is runnin’ after Jim.
EDWARD DYSON.
From the London Daily Telegraph
(owned by a J ew who, ashamed of his own ancient
name, Levy, calls himself “Lawson ”) romance of
the Royal wedding ; —“ Her Majesty never ceased
to respond to the enthusiastic reception of her
good people of London. It was literally one
magnificent ovation from the palace to the chapel
and hack again. A working-man said, ‘We are
proud of our Queen, and I think she is proud of
vis.’ The confirmation of the first part of his
remark was given by the voices of the populace;
the answer was made by the Queen’s gracious
attitude towards those whom she rules and loves
so well.” D.T. reporters have a monotonous way
of overhearing these remarks by an apocryphal
working-man whenever the Queen comes along.
It is the same apocryphal son of toil on each occa-
sion, but his sentiments seem to grow more
“ loyal’’—which means that the reporter becomes
a bigger liar—as years roll on. Meanwhile, the
real working-man—he whose utterances are never
quoted by the “ great ” papers—is gradually
pushing his way to the front rank of the crowd,
and beginning to talk so loudly that that good
old magnificent ovation often finds a difficulty in
making itself understood.
Speaker Tom Bent, the other night, rolled
out of his gown and hung his wig upon the mace,
and guv the Vic. Assembly a bit of his private
mind about taxation and things. The thing that
chiefly afflicts the soul of Bent is the press, with
its scurrerlus h’articles and himperdent parry-
graphs. As for them papers with pickchers in
’em—pickchers reflectin’ on honerrible members of
the ’Ouse, its ’igh time they was all put down, in
Bent’s opinion. He don’t berlieve in the press
any more than he berlievds in Inkum Tax, and
wot he says is that the name of Thomas Bent ’as
always been an honest one, and no one can’t say
that the owner of it has ever done a dishonest
thing in his life. The railways ain’t raanidged
as bizness men ought to manidge them,
at all. They was manidged proper when
’e was Minerster, because e’s a bizness man
but they’ll “go to smash” the way they’re
manidged now. As regards retrenchment, a couple
of underd thousand pound might be struck orf
the Edyercation hestimate. Hs berlieves in edyer-
cation all right (because, where would yer Bents
be without plenty of book learnin ?) but it isn’t
wanted for the gutter children, and so a lot of
the money ought to be saved. That’s what
he thinks, and he don’t care twopence for the
press. The political awfulness of Bent comes out
quite fresh again nowadays, when the burly map
divests himself of his trappings gives tongue
in the capacity of common or (market) garden
member for Brighton. His once familiar “ style ”
is a fearful and wonderful revelation. Even a
journal that was championing Bent’s “ views ” for
the nonce, said, “ his speech showed that he has
lost nothing in vigour and gained nothing in
refinement since his elevation, and it was interest-
ing to watch the effect on new members who had
not previously heard him “on the floor.” In-
teresting is not a happy word to use in this con-
npction. Bent draws a large salary for sitting in
the Chair, wigged and gowned, with the mace as
his official bauble. And the grin of the un-
initiated wiien they see for the first time what
kind of member “worked hisself up” to the
Speakership, is not interesting. It is just what
one expects of the Victorian Parliament in its
present state.
Only a Hand-Clasp.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
We took the darkest seat in the most secluded
spots, where it was nice and dark. You
couldn’t see anyone a yard away, and no one could
see you either, which was better still. The birds
were hushed, of course. So were we. There were
three of us.
It seems a strange number under the circum-
stances—under the scrub I mean—but I can’t help
that. We were three, and the lady was in the
middle. Mind you, I thought then, and I think
still, that it was very shabby of Jack to hang on
to us as he did. Jack says he had as much right
there as I had. Mean people always say things
like that.
I had to sit close to her because she was near
my end of the seat, and I had only just room to
sit down. I did not like to trouble her to move.
Jack had plenty of room at his end, and I thought
he was up there, but some people never know when
they are intruding.
What could I say to her with that fellow there ?
I took her dear little right hapd in mine. I’m
rather proud of my hand. So is Jack—proud of
his own I mean.
We sat there for two hours in delightful silence.
“Jack little knows I have her hand,” thought
I, and I laughed at him with a sedrnful, inward
laugh, and sneered mentally at him, and pressed
her little hand and was happy. Only once did
she withdraw h’er hand for a moment —(that was
early in the evening)—to wipe her- nose, I think.
She gave me her other hand then. I felt the dear
little fingers timidly stealing into mine, l and I
caressed them silently.
At last her sweet voice spoke her thoughts.
“ What dear friends you and Jack must be ! You
don’t seem to want my company.”
“Your company 1” I answered, “It isn’t your
company that is superfluous here.”
“Well,” she said, “you and Jack have been
squeezing one another’s hands on my lap for-the
last two hours, and .”
Ihat little wretch had first given us one
i j d u ancl then » Pending to change the hand,
had brought Jack’s and mine together, and we
were—but enough!
J. S.
VVhen Napier wrote his history of the
Peninsular War, the voluminous cipher corres-
pondence of King Joseph Bonaparte with Napo-
leon was put in his hands. No one could read it,
but Lady Napier eventually made out every word.
Sydney has now the proud distinction of
running a locally-owned vessel in the Queensland
black-brnding trade. The name of the craft is the
\\ illiam Manson (fitted up to carry 200 niggers) •
the owner is Captain Joseph Vos, formerly of the
barquentine Vagabond, of‘Sydney. Captain Vos
should be the right kind of a man for the labour-
traffic. Amongst other experiences he contested
a seat on the N.S.W. Marine Board, and then
kept a public-house. “Special quarters,’’ we
read, ‘have been provided on board for the
females. At Brisbane the ship will obtain the
necessary license, and fill up with return labour
for the islands. Captain Vos intends to recruit in
the New Hebrides and Solomon Islands, and has
every hope that the venture will prove a success.’’
The attention of readers is called to the
fact that the postage on Tine B'wllbtin to Britain
is now l£d.
Meston writes to correet an unaccountable
error in his paragraph concerning Morton Island,
which was named hy Flinders, not by Cook, who
was not aware that it was an island. The bay
and island are named after the Scottish family of
Morton, witfli no “e” in the name. Stradbroke
Island was discovered to be an island in 1828 by
Oapt, Logan s convict beats, and was named in
honour of the family of Capt. Rous who, in
H.M.S. Rainbow, discovered the Clarence and
Richmond Rivers in the year 1829, and after
whom is named Rous Channel in Moreton Bay.
When J. L. Teole was here he could
sca'rcely be said to have scored a success, either
artistically or socially. He brought out a com-
pany which, save Eliza Johnstone and John
Billmgton, was composed of people of the status
of second-rate amateurs, to whom he paid salaries
that the denizens of “Poverty Point ” would dis-
dam. As to Toole himself, he made the mistake
of imagining that, in coming tb Australia, he was
visiting a country inhabited by barbarians, and
he had only to play off the anhient jokes
which had become familiar to two or three genera-
tions of London playgoers to score a success.
Unfortunately for -him, however, the well-worn
Wheezes and grey-headed gags of the Maddtson-
Morton farces had long since lost the savour
which attached to the period when cricket was
played in top-hats an'd Gladstonian collars. In
a recent number of The Idler there appears a
report of an interview, in winch -Toole is allowed
to blow his own trumpet. Perhaps the most
amusing feature of the article is where ho narrates
to the interviewer the trouble and worry he
undergoes when dealing with th'e MSt plays sent
to ,™' Prom his ewn account, he reads all the
rubbibh he' receives, because he is of so kindly
a disposition that he eannot pass hy an MS
when it is submitted to his judgment. How does
this statement square with undoubted facts ? For
many years the only playwrights who furnished
_Tdol6 with comedies were-H. J. Byron and F. C,
Burnand, both of whom had long before made
their and even when he accepted
J. M. Barrie’s “ Walker, London,” the price he
paid for the piece was simply contemptible, aiicl
the actor has coined thousands out of it, w-hile the
author’s profit has been ridiculously"small. The
truth is that Toole is not, and never was, .a great
actor, but simply'a Cockney fetish, and ’when he
emerges from his natural sphere, and brings him-
self into competition with men like George Anson
Willie Elton and Alfred Maltby—as he did When
he came out to Australia—he rapidly discovered
th&t li6 wsts not &cc6pfc6(3 at his own valuation
but was simply regarded as an eccentric example
of a worn-out phase of London character.
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
me dals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal'Scr the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two yeai-s running. Tallies
to be signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
to Oolemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,


“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 6.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Coupons received to 23rd September,
1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps; when the
latter are sent, a penny to be added for
exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
"The Bulletin's ” Missing Word Competition Coupon.—No* 6.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, “ Hulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to be received by Saturday, 2Srd September, 1893.
The cornered Parkes says he is willing to refer to a plebiscite the question of
payment of members in N.S.W. If payment of members can be settled
by a plebiscite, why not also every other vexed question ? Parkes’ endorsement of
the plebiscite foreshadows the abolition of Party Government and the absurd English
custom of endeavouring to settle five hundred questions at one election.
Name
Address , \ ; ;
Missing Word ; - -
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly yet a cheque for the total amount
received —no deduction whatever being made. Should there he more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
«
Bulletin ” Series, INTO. 2.
“ Tales of the Convict
2
By PRICE WAR UN G.
“ The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of Tub
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke, before
producing c His Natural Life,’ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict system. The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer’s knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘Price Waning,’ as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout : his thorough
acquaintance, even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary ability with which
the subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
“ * The Transportation System,’ said Archbishop Whately, speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a monument such
as I suppose was never before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity.’ How true
this is Marcus Clarke’s great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung’s ’ stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not be given to
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are narratives of the
blind brutalism of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the torture of
death, noble efforts of truly Christian clergymen to stem influences which deformed body and soul, pathetic records of lives
wrecked by savage laws and men scourged into kinship with devils. ‘Price Waning ’ has taken this material and, choosing
the most suitable to his purpose, placed it with dramatic force before his readers. The stories, although connected by a thread
of general sequence, are so written that each is complete in itself.”—Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“ Bulletin ” Series, No. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
-OF-
cc
A Golden Shanty”
By
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
“ BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNEY N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
It the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World,
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in Thb Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-"
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues tlie one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla ; ms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not- been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently retnailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shilling* and Sixpence- per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maoleoij, Managing Director', to whom
all remUfanc, s are payable. Editorial corntnuni-
aliens to be .ui dressed to <S. F. AkcHIBALU.


Box 1034. Ci.l'.O.
Telephone
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND —
CTTX
EEETS"
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sliow Rooms ; .
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
NOW PUBLISHED.
THE LAST OF SIX:
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
J 5
ERITEST PAVEITC,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Scale of
THE
Advertising’
—IN—
BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent.
Os. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
allowed for cash in advance.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price st*£3. od.
4$
vh>
df
gOffl CCTOO&
/IENRY^EAUfU
TRADE MAH*
Sole
gents for HENRY HEATH
JPrice Os. 6dL.
A Splendid Hat for Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three niglige shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the textuie of velvet.
Gr. 3BC. S3MCXT3E3! & SOIST,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGS STREET. SYDNEY.
Look Out for
“THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tiepics.
Price, Is.; . .. .... per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
True Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee lor Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY CO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY op EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlie “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
Y
# lr OP
<>Ur
dfg
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
•Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT I
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip —ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
'Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one's health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little, things
which all-good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nie-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duffs or Bibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES,^tc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Pov. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud *aud contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, las assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYDKTEY.
[Established over a Quarter op a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
EE- Tcrms-ios. Cd. per Pay. aItGP SidllSy < late of Newcastle), ‘" Pf Of. ’ ’
-PEIVATE HOSPITAL-,
CAMDEN HOUSE, Wilson’s Point y SYDNEY.
. i.
mi.
■\
Jii
,_ r
J at
*"!• ■'
Resident Medical Officer—Dr- LEIG-HTON KESTEYEN, MR-OS., Eng., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Governmyit Medical Officer, Brisbane, etc.
3E3 JSL DE» JES 3FL I 3E3 3XT CJ S 3 13 IKT XT H S 3 I ZKTj G- S 3 T A 3F* DP".
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYNAECOLOGICAL OASES.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
