

$
©
m
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS « 5 EACH.
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (For Hof
Only)
20,000
50.000
20.000
5 Each
5 Each
10 Each
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose—one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
H. Alexander, Furniture Warehouse,
67 Oscford-St., Sydney, 3XT S W.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent: Street, Sydney,
vf 7- ’ 4-;." ’ ' '■■■■ ‘ »• —JTOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
i
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
ZX3
>
So
o
O
cv
5T
<RAck'Ar6cK>
o
o
c
o
S'
**
o
a
v
It. A. Hervey, Agent, 98 Pltl-M , Sydney.
. Free Frescriptions
Are ,to be’ found in the “flight su»«l Ijil'o.'
for Uk* Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will he sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
-\T OTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
J. s( cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
of
o*l
fHi
»oj*2
K:
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ■ ... ... Proprietor.
'-THB-v
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD Sc ICE CO.
{LIMITED)
m
>8 ILK „ .. The Purest Country.
CREAM .. „ Double or Single.
ICE .. The Clearest Crystal.
HITTER .. "Golden Star” Creamery, Eegd.
ITBH ’ .. .. Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
GARB .. .. The Choicest Sorts.
POULTRY From the famed Farms of the Colony
IMSTKY, Ac. .. The most Exquisite,
IW The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
Tlie splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony;—
MILK, ICE, BUTTERS
FISH, GAME,
3PcLa , fcx‘y, etc.
; Julv, 1893.
11. IMTESO*,
Manager.
WALKER'S WHISKY. llUOff’S ILL
JOKKT WALKER, 24: BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
J
Sole Asents New SoutH Wales
and.
mesarß.
for
Clayton
SliuLttlowortli.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND -GOVERNOR SIRE RAGE,
. Also iu Riding'.
r-
i
SK
IM PRO VIP PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27.000 MADE AND SOLO.
Sgmd
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Benn-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all k'nds-
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Ldgh'ness m Draught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for fid. each.
Convertible to ordinary ploughs if desired.
WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. tsr Full Catalogues of
Howard, 280^
Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
tol 13.—N0. 703. j
[Saturday, August- 5, 1803.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlslo Brighton of OXTe-w Soutlk 'Wa,les.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
flitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
o-
Mrs. tttt.mxktster .... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESLAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
i
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia—' T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
3*»
V¥i
ì
sfor
tHa^
s
Med i cal.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from hashfulmss, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the Ivet m ans of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Ltuo House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital. Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich .
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr,
M. PERRY,
M.R.CaBa, Ij«B<A< 9 Sc o»
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PE KEY’S
| Book® Ei
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
hirii to undertake the treatment .of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Gkncinb
Electric Belt, from which the current can he ms-
KNCTLY PELT, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
EPPS’S
OEATEFOL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS AM) INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. PiesSe,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. War. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.CiS., &e.„ Public Analysts.
I. ON DOW, ENGLAND.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
DI; EIDGE'S royal food mills
PRTOE—ON E SHI L LING.
3b3HMX y 3A 3V/
mm Qlb 4 Jl
í
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. tST” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious
K
I
w
T
*
She : “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S! ’
Hu: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes ? ”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
mHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
I Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
.£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion. Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Hotel.
IMPERIAL arcade hotel
(From Pitt-Htreet to
Caallereagli-street),
Between King Jc Market Sts.
IN THE VERY HEART OE THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board ob Apartments at Option.
S&WS €5OM}, Managen,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
"Men I have Smiled with.”
E STAY, at 3riz t o n’s,
r jsmuni*3C'sno-E>
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Grated #o7^
MELBOCTBNH.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking?
Treas iry Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto. 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne,
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR. .
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atkinson’s. Beware of Imitations,
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
is one of the mostrefreshingPerfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Markka “ White Rose”
and address in full
i>l 1 fi O O I>.
HEALTH, ■STR'li'S'iitH HAD VIGOR RESTORED
In hour Weeks by the use of
i
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Us, or four quantities in one for CSs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitxroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul, & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney,
To Newsagents, etc.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
Medical.
i
ROSE'S
i
THEONLYI
RELIABLE
i
i
'THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EVES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the, leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
EC, A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
»*"' Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and'
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
EUREK
ELECTRIC
>*T "
3?
//
M
u
m
BELTO
\:
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what « e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to w.ear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
AddressVOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 91 Pi, G.P.0., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beechaiu’s Pills
w
i
PATENT
PILLS.
&
*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disordere,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, ” disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring, about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
iheir use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecham’s Cough
PiiiLS a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeohann, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Bs. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


Medical.
D'JECKELL VINES
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
•Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
.prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on _ “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. Thi s
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
Weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; lie will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.rn. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.in. to 9 p.m.
gW Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE quote this paper when writing
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
Isi?
I.
□
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a Ufa- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly Well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case send for his famous medical work, the pr ice
of which is but Cd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially itr describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nolhuig but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has pet-mission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
id dressed :
Dr.RicliEn's
34 CODE MG E STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULT AT fON FREE.
Hotel.
WI6.
it V;
; c >•«*
i
" pie Sydney feoffee palace ” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
uimitimvE,
Position in the very centre
of the City.. ,
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
‘premises.
ladies’ Tea Rooms.
ipHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a greit boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
- 1 - cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
Will positively and effectually remove freckles, Moth
Patch) s, Brown S| ol*. •Sallowness, Tan, Ulackbenls,
Extr( me Redness, I loiches. Pimples, Ki ngliness, Evces
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and W rinkles not cans d by-
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most deliede
cf mplexinn, and keeps t lie skin soft and fifte.
L sed by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s G<l.. or, llnte b(. its '< y tbit, ,J 1 12*. (id.
Valuab e new I'.ook on "NATURAL BEAt J \ . iven
; way for a «!•< i t ine <> yt■ ... .i. r-.
Head Office—S9 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australasia—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
SYIirJ TONIC
Business Announcement.
ì
ì
W. C- ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonics promptly
attended to.
ALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
v Shipping.
England via America
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea arid
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OP SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia tSainoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Farr's, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land '
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d*
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office,-15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Steamer
A USTR ALIEN'
V.deIaCTOTAT
YULYNESIEN
Commander Sydney
! Noon
Dates of Departure,
G. Didier .
Fiaachi ,
L. Boulam
. Aug. 27
. Sept. 27
Oct. 27
Melbourne ( Adelaide
1 p.m. f 1 p.m.
31-Sept. 2
X Oct. 3
i Nov. ■ 3
Aug.
Oct.
Nov.
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON-BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English' interpreters meet
the passengers for Loi don and give them every assistant
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed fiee of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
m
CROMARTY
Whisty
Greenlees Brwheiis
QUSCOWICWCN AND
AR&YLESHWE*
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
IW~ The Lightning Moustaciib Producer. TEI
R»liahle, Safi, u <1 Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Mniistacln will u-sult, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarlae —los. cd., l ost Free.
<’K«IG ,V UTK ». sole Agent*.
680 and 682 George Street, brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
‘‘THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comforlrb'e ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a idee, light-looking chair, and is
a d'> ( ided improvement upon any other chair. Used hy
ns in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKExM,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
OHO it 68‘J George Street, Sydney.
“ The Last of Six.”
FROM
Ca.pll 1 arine!
ST NOW PUBLISHED.


i
OME
i
í
i
J>lP
*
.Molinston&CQ-.
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET* MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
SHAVING MACHINE.
These Machines ot Razors, 8/G each, post free. Please see that
the name “ W; Jno. Baker, Sydney,” is on each Box.
Illustrated Booklet, showing accompanying Machine fitted
up in handsome cases for presentation, forwarded post free on
application.
W. Jno . Baker, C TITLEB ,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY^
î i
Shaving
Machine.
Bs. 6d.
POST FREE throughout
the World.
NEWTON & LAMB,
Cabinetmakers* Upholsterers and General House Furnishers*
AUTISTIC FURNITURE AT MODERATE PRICES.
S.
mm *
CHIMNEY PIECES, INGEE NOOKS, etc.
Designs and Estimates submitted. Architects’ own Desigrils for Fitments and Furniture accu-
rately carried out.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stea m Engines, Boilers, Gas Sngin.es,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tS" Write, us with regard to any find every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
‘ Plum ’
i
THE
‘Plum’
TIT'S brand nf Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand,
i > • , j Smg e ly >zor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; I’air, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 ~cf> (Single Razor, in ivory handle, los. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
R<yjistcrtd and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra,
AiSltt: CBAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEV'.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Columbian Land Distribution
■
FOR REASONS GIVEN BELOW, THE PROMOTERS OF THE
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION
HAVE DECIDED TO POSTPONE THE BALLOT.
The recent banking crisis necessitated u very large amount
of cheques being returned,
And the depressioh existing throughout that petiod greatly influenbecl the salb of Shales.
The Promoters greatly regret having to disappoint the Shareholders with regard to keeping the
date of ballot as originally arranged, and assure them that every preparation was made to carry blit
the same on a pro rata basis. Immediately, however, it becaihe knoWn that thefe was insufficient to
include the First Prize in its entirety, a strong feeling set in that the
LIST SHOULD BE KEPT OPEN FOR A REASONABLE TIME
to enable this to be done, and, in submitting to this opinion, the Promoters trust that the Share-
holders will co-opetate to their utmost.
It is computed that, by extending the CLOSING OF THE BALLOT TO NOVEMBER, the
amount required will easily be subscribed, but should this not be the base, the best value of property
for the amount subscribed will be included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate percentage
of Bonus money allowed as originally fixed.
The Subscribers will be consulting their own interests by in-
ducing others to paitioipate in the distribution,
Afid it is hoped that, in nearly every case, they themselves will increase the number of their Shares*
The Promoters beg to draw public attention to the absolutely unforeseen difficulties that
have had to be contended against during the last four months*
They have never failed tb recognise their responsibility to those Who have entrusted them with
their money and confidence, and every precaution has been taken to protect investors, the Whole
amount received to date now being perfectly secure in the hands of trustees. Shareholders are also
assured that, on the part of the Promoters,
Neither trouble nor expense will he spared to bring the Columbian
Land Distribution to a successful termination.
ONLY .£27,000 NOW REQUIRED TO INCLUDE THE £30,000 PRIZE,
m- THE FIRST BALLOT WILL BE WHOLLY FROM THE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
Which is universally admitted to be much the mote valuable, and which itself comprises 285
out of the 351 Properties offered. This, it is hoped, will in some measure recompense Share-
holders for the delay. See future advertisements.
The Columbian Land Distribution Co., c/o J. H. ASTROP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Columbian Land Distribution properties are honafide Agricultural and Pastoral Freeholds,
Their position is clearly defined, and intending Shareholders are invited to make every enquiry.
YOU
MAY
WIN
For
Half-Share,
Quarter-Share,
This Building’
fm
rOl-
-
ss.
First Prize— Value, £35,000.
ANNUAII RENTAL, £1750.
3\T.B. —To effect th.e realisation of Bank am
Building Societies’ effects, rendered unsale-
able by the present commercial depression,
T ZEE IE
Mutual Freehold Property
Distribution Society of Sydney
Are issuing 145,000 Shares at £1 each, with no further liability.
3441 PRIZED.
All Sydney and Suburban. Properties, and largely rent-producing. No unimproved back-blocks or
inaccessible squatting prupoi ties.
First Prize, £3s,ooo.— Those Magnificent Offices and Banking Chambers, Park and Castlereagh
Streets, occupied by the City Bank (Castlereagh Street Bran h). and the Mercantile Building
Laud and Investment Co., Limited, having a rental value of £1750 per annum.
I PRIZE of £15,0011
•» PHIZES of UM'i.O
ï i
10 PRIZES of £l,OOO
1) Pit IZK' of s<* •
10 PRIZES of £2io
50 PRIZES of: i«!>
100 PHIZES of S.'O
•oo PHIZES of !fj
Apply personally,
00 PHIZES Of £:» 10>i(l I’l l 'lvS of £lO 201)0 PHIZES of £5.
14 CHANCES Ft) it EACH SHARE. IRft
or send Cash, .Money Order, Stamps or Ch qnefadd exchange), and two stamped envelopes for reply.
Bankers ; CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
For Shares,. Prospectuses, and full particulars, apply to
Zr\. v ’ JE’S ,
Co R. HOPE ATKINSON, 2a linpeiial Arcade, SYDNEY ; or LOG AT. AGENTS.
NOTICE TO SMALL TWKSTOItS.—To facilitate the I n restineut of small sums, and I"
enable those who hi ii/hl otherwise. be debarred to participate in I.' e benefits of this dislribu-
lion, arrniif/enients have bee A made for the note of Half-Sham , at 10s. mid Oaarter-Sharc »’
at fin., for which certificates will be issued.


The Bulletin
Tol. 13—Ho. 703.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1893.
Price, 6d.
A/
A/
4
f
# '
oL
l O VE.
i
ì
\
X<? A
<*»
\
/m
PLAYING TO THE ASS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians. 0
PROPRIETORS ;
bulletin newspaper co., limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
terms to subscribers
(payable in advanoe, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly... 0 6 0
' NOT ICR.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
'« year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of s uch MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal : -The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-,
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny,
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with Us. lid.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be prer
paid. There v:ill be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGER ALD BROS., of Launees-
stou, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 5, 1893.
Pay versus Plunder.
Premier G. Republican Bibbs, of New
South Wales, announces that he will fight
the next general election with abolition of
payment of members as the principal issue.
Mr. G. R. Bibbs is an ardent Republican
who sold his Republicanism for a title and
then denied his past principles somewhat
after the fashion of Peter, one cold night
in Judaea—a Protectionist who sold the Pro-
tectionist party, either for want of courage
or want of sincerity—and a Bemocrat who
now sells the very last remnant of his
alleged Bemocratic principles. That political
disease, the Bibbs of to-day, is a Tory
bigot, the slave of the Fat Man, who is even
pow busy getting him up a cash testimonial,
and the humble agent and instrument of
the National Ass. The one principal pur-
pose with which he goes to the poll at next
election is to make the Legislature—as it
was before—a close corporation of capitalists,
lawyers, and landlords, and to extinguish
the Bemocratic party in politics. Therefore,
G. R. Bibbs is a public enemy, an individual
in whom there is neither political faith nor
truth nor honour. The country has already
abjured him. It would rather attend Bibbs’
funeral, and that of all his Cabinet, than
surrender its only safeguard against the
return of the Fat Man’s political monopoly.
# # •
The reasons advanced by Bibbs for the
proposed abolition are the same old asser-
tions which have been utterly disproved a
hundred times over in the past. The follow-
ing fragment from his late speech at Penrith
will explain them in full ;
I! they would compare the amount of legislative work
done in the past with the legislative work done since the
enactment of payment of members, they would find that
not only in regard to the quantity and quality but in
character the work had seriously depreciated since pay-
ment of members came into operation. Besides, it was
too great a burden for a people of one million and a
quarter to hire 141 persons, and pay them £40,000 a year
to do nothing- but talk. They had had to pay £40,000 a
year for the last three or four years for the legislative
duties of members of Parliament. It should be felt that
it was an honour to represent a constituency, and there
should be some sacrifice of time and labour and money on
the part of those who offered their services to make laws
for the people. He intended to make as one of the elec-
tion cries at the next general election, to be held under
the new Electoral Law—“ Who will support payment of
members?” £40,000 a year would pay the interest on a
million of money, and they wanted that million, and a
good many other millions before they could square the
yards, and he believed the people of this country, having
tried the experiment of the payment of members, had
condemned it. He knew that many of those in the House
who had voted for it were now deadly opposed to it,
because they could get men of ability and character who
would serve the country honestly without payment. He
would point out that there might be a case where a man
might be without any lawful occupation or means of
obtaining subsistence, and it might be very desirable to
have that man assisting to make the laws of the land. If
there were such men, and their services were required by
the people, let the people contribute to the payment of
their member. They had divided the countrv under the
new Act into electorates of from 2300 to 2500 people.
Taking an average of 2400, a contribution of id. per week
per man of that electorate would pay a member £5 a
week. If payment of members was necessary in certain
cases, then the power was in the hands of the electors
requiring the services of members to pay them for the
time they gave in Parliament.
* • #
All the above is based on the same old
assumption that there was once in New
South Wales—in the days when none but
rich men, or men who could “live on the
game ” by underhand means, were eligible
for the Legislature—a pure, noble, patriotic,
and self-sacrificing Parliament which talked
little, and worked hard, and left a good
name behind it, and was deeply regretted by
the country. But the assumption is all a
blatant falsehood. There never was any
such Parliament. Hell is paved with the
records of the old, unpaid (i.e., self-paid)
politicians of New South Wales. The system
which Bibbs and the National Ass want to
see restored was the same which loaded the
province with over fifty-two millions of debt,
which refused to pass a Local Government
Act because it would involve the taxation by
local bodies of wealthy landlords, which
refused to abolish plural voting and will
restore that ancient corruption at the earliest
opportunity if, by the abolition of payment
of members, it can wipe out the Democratic
party in Parliament, and which made N.S.
Wales the Paradise of hangmen, gaol-
floggers, larrikins, quack doctors, bogus
banks, building societies, and financial insti-
tutions, fraudulent “totes,” fortune-tellers,
lottery swindles, and other varieties of
sharks. It was the same, grand old system,
which burdened, the country with the ex-
pense of the Soudan Contingent, and the
naval tribute, and the. enormous cost of
making roads through Burnsby Horns’
private estate ; which refused constantly and
unanimously to levy a land-tax, which
created the nominee Upper House, and
which gave rise to, Parkes, John Davies,
G. Republican Dibbs, Lyne —who wants to
hand over the New South Wales railways to,
“private enterprise”— Abigail, and every
other public leprosy with which the province
is afflicted. Even the hideous deficit was
handed down from these same good old days.
• • # t
And these bygone Parliaments talked:,
wrangled, drank, swore, and blasphemed
more, and filled more Hansard, and had
longer sessions, and did much less work than
the Parliaments of to-day. Only like
Paraguay and the Kimberley diggings, and
the times of feudalism, and the barren pas-
tures which look green by reason of their
remoteness —they are far off", and, therefore,
i,t is possible for any mendacious politician
to persuade the people that the ancient
system, which laid the foundations of all the
ruin of the present day, is actually a thing
to be envied.
# # 9
Premier Dibbs is now, or was within the
last few weeks, a bankrupt, and the hat and
the begging-letter man are going round on
his behalf. Nor is he the only member of the
N.S.W. Ministry known to be in serious
financial straits. These men have large
salaries, which, so far, they have not included
in the general retrenchment scheme, and yet
despite this they are not all apparently
capable of “ that variety of honesty which
consists in promptly paying 20s. in the £.”
Yet they are better than the average of their
kind, for other men, created by the same
system, lived by founding sham banks with
faked balance-sheets, and robbing the
widow and the aged, and by manipulating
strange mining transactions and being a
“ red-hot, burning brand of shame ’ in con-
sequence, and by conducting bogus insurance
companies, and doing weird and villainous
land-swindles. When G. R. Dibbs, with
an insolvency schedule in one hand and
a public subscription-list in the other, and a
cheque for his Ministerial salary in his hinder
pocket, and his knightly gewgaw on his
abounding chest, rises to assert that law-
makers should serve their country without
pay or reward, and should live on their
private means, his assurance passes all under-
standing. He is himself, in his present
financial circumstances, a horrible example
of the gratis and purely patriotic brand of
politician, and the idea of reverting to a
system which makes all law-makers men
more or less of his variety is indeed a
lamentable prospect.
• * #
The country has to choose between two
varieties of law-makers. One is represented
by the “professional ’’politician, who can, if
he pleases, be honest because he has a sufii-
cieut salary to live upon, who gives all or
most of his time to the public service, and
who is chosen for his office simply because
his constituents consider him the best man
they can find for the position. The other is
the amateur politician, selected because he
is believed to be the best man out of a very
few who are rich enough to work without
salary, or clever enough to make money out
of the position by lending their names to
wild cat companies, and floating bills, and
getting drinks on credit at the Parliamentary
bar, and who gives the fag-end of his time to
his duties, and drops in now and then to
attend to the State when his own business is
quite finished or there is a syndicate-bill to
be engineered into harbour. The difference
is much the same as that between being
attended by a professional surgeon who is
paid for his services, and having one’s leg
sawn off by a wealthy amateur who saws off
legs for amusement.
* * *
The sardonic suggestion that members
may live, if necessary, by passing the hat
round among their constituents, will pro-
bably be answered with sufficient distinctness
at next election. The country has seen the
hat passed round for Parkes and Dibbs, and
it hasn’t in either case been favourably im-
pressed by the process. Payment of mem-
bers has been tried for three years ; the
other system has been tried and found
wanting for half a century. When the new
policy has lasted for even one-fifth as long
and has produced equally ghastly results, it
will be possible to draw a fair comparison.
Meanwhile, it is hampered by the fact that
the race of politicians reared in the dishonest
atmosphere of the bygone system have not
had time to die out. The Upper House—
which belongs entirely to the old order of
things—blocks almost every attempt at
reform, and the Assembly is three-parts full
of relics of the unpaid era, some of them
bankrupt, some suspected by the police, a
good many suspected by the husbands of
wives who don’t belong to them, and most
of them strongly suspected by each other,
arrd by the nation at large, and by everybody
who sees their names at the foot of a joint-
stock company’s balance-sheet. When the
country has attended the political funeral of
the last of them, then the new system will
begin to have a fair trial—for the first time.
It was established because the men of the
old system were a public misfortune, and
till they are gone it cannot be accurately
judged. But even under all disadvantages
it has done more in three yea,rs than wa,s
formerly done jn, thirty, inasmuch as it has.
abolished plural voting, and ended the reign
of bricks and mortar —it is to. be hoped for
ever. And even the fact that the country
could pay the interest on another borrowed
million with the money now spent in Parlia-
mentary salaries will not induce it to risk
the loss of what it has gained, or to postpone
Dibbs’ inevitable extinction by a, single day.
The country doesn’t want to borrow that
other million. Moreover, it hasn’t yet
finished figuring out ho.w many millions it
could have paid interest upon with the public
money spent on the estates of members of
Parliament, in the era when there was no,
Democratic party in the House to, inquire
into the jobs of the unpaid patriots who are
now yearning to cp,me back and job some
more.
Professor Scott’s Yarn.
A good many of the things said by Professor
Scott in his recent address on “ The Function
of Capital,” before the New South Wales Insti-
tute of Bankers, the other day, were true. But
those things were not so generally unknown as
to require special statement by a Professor.
School children, special constables, and Ms.P.
have the common characteristic of knowing in a
general way that the function of capital is to
assist production—that the term “ capital ” is
applied to wealth so, employed to differentiate
it from wealth put to any other use. This was
practically all Professor Scott had to tell the
assembled bankers, but he put it before them
as a new discovery and a big thing, and they
seemed to feel better after knowing, on such
authority, that they were benefactors of labour.
# * #
When Professor Scott got off the three-chain
macadamised road of economic knowledge, his
voice became that of a bushed guide coo-eeying
from the wilderness. His utterances sounded
“like a wind from the vaults of the past.”
One might think they came out of an
epoch before Adam Smith delved in economic
fields, or Ricardo spun a theory of rent
which has been tested and found all w 7 ool.
If he had kept on to the end of his hour
enumerating reasons why capital, according
to the proper meaning of the word, can only
exercise a beneficent influence upon production
and cannot injuriously affect distribution, he
would have told half the truth—the only half
which bankers want to hear. But he felt called
upon to explain the position occupied in the
economic plan by the wage-earner, and imme-
diately fell to pieces. His conclusion regarding
labour and its rewards is the conclusion of
every self-made Bounderby, and the moral of
every good book for the young. “ The only
way to prevent poverty,” he said, “ was by
putting in the hands of the poor the weapons
they would find effectual against it —
character, intelligence and trained skill.”
If every artisan and producer possessed these
attributes, “ his work being of the highest
class would be worth, and would fetch, a good
price. So much more wmiild be produced that
there would be plenty for all, and the bargain
between labourer anil employer could lie made
on terms satisfactory to both.”
# # •
Now to anybody without a university train-
ing, yet possessing the Divine gift of gumption
it is quite clear that “putting info the hand’
of the poof the weapons they would find effec-
tual against it,” would enable them to overcome
poverty if they felt so disposed, as most of them
seem to do. This is a self-evident maxim, and
there was no need for the Professor to mention it.
But he prescribed the wrong weapons. It is
not because people do not produce enough
that they are poor, but because they do not get
enough of what they produce. Those who don't
produce get most of it, and, consequently, not
being poor, lend money on mortgage and join
the Institute of Bankers. It is not the increased
ppwer of production the labourer now requires,
but increased power of securing for his own
enjoyment his own proper share of what he
already produces. Learning to do more pro-
ductive work in a given time will not enable
him to get a better return than he did before.
It will enable his masters, the owners of the
vast and infinitely varied heap of natural raw
material which his labour transmutes into
form in use and value, to exact a bigger
return from him in payment for their permis-
sion to exert his increased intelligence and skill
—that and nothing more.
# # #
Professor Scott’s economic fable is based on
the thin delusion that has for a long time
deceived a thin proletariat, that, men receive
payment in proportion to the services they
render. In odd nooks and corners of the
world, especially where “ Squoire ” and
“t’parson” are yet powers in the land, and
where respect for royal and titled persons is a
kind of aggressive disease, this barefaced,
brazen lie may be believed. But no one who
isn’t a born ass developed to the top
notch of possibility by his surroundings
believes it. If the farmer, the carpenter, the
wharf-lumper, the engineer, and all other
working producers get, according to their
graded productive services, all they should get,
where does the mighty pile come from that
those who don’t bother about producing manage
to get ? There are men in every populous
country that is what we call civilised,.not one
of whom could earn more than a bare living in
any branch of production or service, yet each of
whom obtains an annual share of wealth
greater than is distributed among thousands of
wage-earning families. In the United States
about fifty men can be instanced who
could each buy out an Indian Maha-
rajah’s kingdom, lock, stock, and barrel, for
cash and live in royal state on theft of serfs
and ryots, but who “ have a softer thing on”
where they are. They form railway, steel,
coal, iron, water-power, and other monopolies,
they fleece and throttle and blackmail right and
left, scorning to produce anything and only
devising measures to prevent anyone else
doing so until they have been bought off. These
are typical “ enterprising Democratic citizens.”
They are despots of the financial and commer-
cial world, who grind the faces of millions
of American workers, taking an off-night
once in, a way to gather at a Bankers’
Institute meeting and hear men like Pro-
fessor Scott impressing upon the masses they
rob and murder the lesson that to each is
given according to his work, that more work
must be done, and done more intelligently at
that,
n * *
Fortunately, all professors are not exactly
alike. One of them who died recently in Eng-
land, Thorold Rogers by name, devoted a
remarkable intellect and unique gifts of analysis
and comparison to the task of determining in
what degree the power of wage-earners to enjoy
their products had kept pace with their increase
of productive power. He made an exhaus-
tive inquiry into the industrial condition of
the last six centuries, and proved there-
from that the average British labourer is worse
off now than when he worked with a wooden
spade. As a producer he is equal to at least 25
men of six centuries back. A boy to-day sits
•tending a machine which does the work of 500
men. Railways, telegraphs, steamships, chemical
discoveries, marvels of intricate machinery,
every one of them the product of labour, have
made labour a colossal giant compared with the
pigmy who used a timber plough and ground
wheat by hand between two stones. But that
pigmy was, on the average, more content, more
certain of obtaining a livelihood, less likely to
be trampled to death in fighting at dock-gates
for a casual job at sd. an hour, or.to die in
the swarming hell upon earth of London.
# # #
All Professor Scott has to say is, “ Keep on
as you are ; learn to produce more, then there
will be more for you per head.” There will not
be more while monopoly has strength to exact
toll in proportion with the power of workers to
pay. One/illustration is enough to show the
kind of stuff Professor Scott’s argument is
made of—an illustration familiar.to every-
body. Take the case of a tenant whc
works hard and well to render servica
to the public as a shopkeeper. Let
that tenant get together a paying business.
Will not other tenants soon offer more rent to
the land-owner for this opportunity of earning
a living? Will not the working producers—-for
every shopkeeper is as truly a producer as the
man who guides a lathe or builds a house—thus
be kept at a level of hard work and mere sub-
sistence, sometimes failing even to pay their
way, while tire land-owner, who, as land-owner,
never produced anything, grows wealthier year
by year? Professor Scott knows this will be
the case, or if he doesn’t he might
drop in and ask a tenant shopkeeper
or two. The Bankers’ Institute knows it,
and knows, too, that when the people have it
brought fully and clearly under their attention,
there will be one of the ghastliest and most
enduring “slumps” in bank shares that ever
made a Scotch depositor snort.
* * •
The Bulletin doesn’t think banks are to
blame particularly because their profits are
largely derived from the use of wealth, not as
capital to aid production, but in securing
tribute rights, or the monopoly power of pre-
venting production and levying blackmail on
producers. The laws allow individuals to do
this, and because the masses have not yet come
into the full inheritance of their senses they
allow the law to allow it. And what an indi-
vidual may do a corporation may also do. If


iliere were no banks, owners of wealth would
; ulividually possess themselves of the surface of
Hie land, by purchase or mortgage, and have
tenants or mortgagors working for them as
slaves without knowing it. The banks merely
facilitate this business, which will go on one
y or another while the ownership of land
eiVes the owner power to reap the advantage of
that increased productiveness which Professor
S 'orr and the Institute want the worker to
assiduously cultivate, leaving tiie w'orkcr as
hungry and naked as lie was before. What the
worker needs is not to produce more but to
receive more. And the sure and certain way
to do this is to see that the land-owner, the
man who doesn’t work, receives less.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“H’m.”
The benefits of Government by Contradiction
ft re set forth to advantage by New South
Wales Premier Dibbs’s decision to cut himself
utterly adrift from the Democratic party, ally
himself with the National Ass and declare for
the abolition of payment of members. Dibbs is
Ihe head of the New South Wales Protectionist
party, and as there is no available means of
shifting him from that position without tem-
porarily wrecking the party, it has to put up
Ivith the misfortune as best it can. If the
province wants Protection it has, for the pre-
sent at least, to endure Dibbs. If it decides
that Dibbs is unendurable it has to sacrifice
Protection to get rid of him. Also, if it wants
Protection so much as to endure Dibbs for the
sake of it, it must also endure the abolition of
payment of members, which he has, on his own
responsibility, tacked on to the other principle,
despite the "fact that there is no earthly con-
nection between the two. Supposing the
country wants Dibbs and Protection, but not
the abolition of members’ salaries, or wants
Protection and the abolition of salaries without
Dibbs, or desires Protection without either
Dibbs or the other tiling, it has no possible way
of "iving effect to its wishes. Or if it wants a
Land Tax and a State Bank, with or with-
out any or all of the three, it can’t say so.
And if it takes Dibbs and Protection and the
abolition of members’ salaries, it has also to
take all Dibbs’ colleagues, however much
it may want to get rid of some or
all of them, and Dibbs’ sinking fund scheme,
and his proposed land-sale policy. Dibbs, as a
Protectionist, has been a dire and awful failure,
but the nation must either accept him and the
pallid shadow of Protection which goes along
with him, or else go bald-headed for Foreign-
trade. It can’t inform Dibbs at the poll that it
wants genuine Protection instead of the present
enlarged revenue tariff, for there are absolutely
no means whereby it can express that desire or
any other desire. In fact, it can’t coherently
express anything. When the election comes on
the question put to the voter is : “Do you
want George Dibbs and all his friends, ten per
cent, revenue duties which he calls Protection,
the abolition of payment of members, the Colo
Valley job, the revenue deficiency, the proposed
Land Bill, no Land-Tax, the sale of land in
large blocks to big monopolists to reduce the
National Debt, and any thing else that may turn
up ? ” And the bound and gagged elector is
thereupon permitted, under the provisions of
the Electoral Act, as a free and independent
citizen, to waggle his head and make an indi-
stinct sound like “ H’m ! ” And on the other
side of the case the question is : “Do you sup-
port George Reid, and any colleagues he may
choose to appoint, with another heavy
revenue tariff’ which he calls Freetrade, the
abolition of payment of members again,
no Land-Tax, no prospect of Federation, more
big loans, the old Parkes leprosy in the back-
ground, and anything else which may happen?”
And again the gagged elector is permitted,
under the provisions of the Electoral Act, to
shake his head and say indistinctly, “ H’m !”
And until the Referendum is introduced so that
he can vote on one question at a time, and can
vote on one question only without 10 or 12
irrelevant politicians being attached to it, and
until Cabinets are elected by the Assembly so
that he can choose his Ministers for himself, the
elector will never get a chance to say anything
more definite than “ H’m !”
A Word in Time.
Editor Bulletin, —A bad feature of the New
South Wales Labour-party in Parliament is its
members’ mutual jealousy and mistrust. Capi-
talism’s avowed representatives do not thus fall
foul of each other, even if on opposite sides of
the House. The internal troubles of the party
were very apparent during last session, and the
hasty feeling which obtains amongst certain of
its prominent supporters, apparently ravenous
for seats, was strikingly manifested at the
recent celebration of the second anniversary of
the electoral triumph of Labour. At next
general election the utmost discipline will be
required in the party’s ranks, for, just as the
single electorates in Great Britain have, to a
large extent, fallen under the influence of the
caucus and politicians of the Chamberlain
stamp, and the wards of New York are com-
pletely dominated by party bosses, so will the
single electorates of Sydney and suburbs be
largely controlled by popular aldermen and the
wire-pullers of various benefit and religio-
political societies—lmperial Federationists and
blind followers of such political back-numbers
as Parkes and Dibbs. The only chance for
Democracy to defeat such candidates lies in a
firm front and solid voting. Take West Sydney,
for instance. This electorate is likely to be
divided into three, if not four, small constitu-
encies. The Miller’s Point end could easily
return a man solidly supported by the workers,
but should there be disunion among them it is
inevitable that the seat will be jumped by an
alderman of the Playfair type, or a popular
old resident [like George Merriman —from
whom Labour can expect nothing but “ cokum.”
At the Pyrmont end the same danger will loom
up. Smith, secretary of the Seamen’s Union,
has declared war against A. J. Kelly, the
sitting member, and Alderman Landers, who
has been doing local road-and-bridge work
will assuredly beat both of them. If in the
new Redfern constituencies Labour-members
Sohey and M'Gowan oppose Labour-members
Sharp and Hoyle, not one of the four will see
the inside of the House. At Balmain, workers’
representatives talk of opposing Murphy and
Johnson. In Canterbury, South Sydney, and
the populous end of Paddington may be wit-
nessed similarly disastrous internecine war.
The single electorate system, all in favour of the
National Ass, will be utilised by capitalism to
the fullest extent. Labour’s victory at the last
general election created a scare in the ranks of
Conservatives, who will now work, and are
working, ami have been working silently and
with all the force money can command, to bring
about a capitalistic reaction. Great problems
are immediately ahead. Division in the Labour
ranks and consequent victory for the National
Ass means the adoption of the Federal Conven-
tion’s Imperialistic constitution —abolition of
payment to members —and the sale of the State
railways.—S.
Wanted —the Abolition of Retrenchment.
Within the last five or six weeks a kind of
chronic Black Wednesday has pervaded the
Victorian and N.S.W. Civil service, and some
500 or 600 men have been sent adrift to add to
the innumerable unemployed and aggravate the
general destitution. It is the hideous peculiarity
of all the Australian Governments that they
always turn their employes loose just when the
possibility of finding work outside is practically
non-existent. When the country is reasonably
prosperous the Civil service is filled up with
hundreds of useless officials, chiefly as a con-
cession to the department-trotters of the Legis-
ture, and as a means of buying political
support. If the Government refused to supply
sinecures for these multitudinous encumbrances,
they would probably, amid the general pros-
perity, find the means of livelihood elsewhere,
but the State takes them in and keeps them till
some period of general disaster arrives, when
the chances in the outer world are nil, and
then it turns them out to shift for themselves. It
is a refuge which furnishes shelter to all-comers
in the summer, when shelter is not required, and
systematically teaches them to be helpless and
dependent, and then throws them out in the
snows of a hard industrial winter to take their
chance. The latter half of the process may be
dictated by a sincere desire to save expenditure,
but the same noble result would be arrived at,
with almost as much honesty, by shunting the
ancient cripples of the Benevolent Asylum into
the highways in order to save the Government
grant when the Treasury is low. There is
something profoundly rotten in the entire sys-
tem, and ere long retrenchment will have to be
abolished from motives of sheer economy. Times
are bad, and the country has to do without
many things from hard necessity, and among
the rest it will, sooner or later, have to d.o
without retrenchment. This alleged virtue is
becoming too expensive. For, in order to
retrench, it is necessary, first of all, to appoint a
large number of useless officials at an immense
cost in salaries and other expenses, in order that
the Government may afterwards buy popu-
larity by dispensing with them, and the appoint-
ments are as essential a part of the retrench-
ment system as the dismissals which follow
later on. The appointments buy the political •
support of individuals and the after economies
buy the political support of the people en masse,
therefore the scheme works both ways.
Economy, as practised by most Governments, is
the art of adding a needless million to the ex-
penditure this year in order to reduce the ex-
penditure by £BOO,OOO the year after, and, as
the natural consequence, economy is only
a thing which the State can afford in
times of prosperity. It is too expensive
a luxury for periods of depression. As far as
the Civil service is concerned, one way to effect
the abolition of this ghastly virtue is to make
entrance to the service possible by competitive
examination only, and when any Minister over-
rides the law by appointing some politician’s
relative without examination, to make both
the Minister and the appointee liable to a
penalty of £2OO or more, to be recovered
summarily by any informer. Considering
the hideous illiteracy of political nominees in
general, this would practically shut out the
w hole tribe, and thus the temptation to use-
lessly overcrow'd the public offices, and have a
great outbreak of retrenchment later on, would
be almost entirely removed. In these times of
depression it is absolutely necessary to abolish
something, and retrenchment, which costs more
than almost any other single item of expendi-
ture in the national balance-sheet, should be
the first thing to be sacrificed.
Judge Wilkinson, now finally disposed of as
far as N.S.W. District Court Bench is con-
cerned, has throughout his judicial career held
stoutly to the opinion that perjury is more fre-
quently committed in the lower courts than in
the upper, because less ceremony is observed
in the former than in the latter. That “ be-
cause ” betokens obliquity of judgment. Spec-
tacular ceremonial does not deter the perjurer ;
it is his estimate of the probabilities of detection
which affects him ; and if he perjures himself
more glibly in a District than in a Supreme
Court, and before a J.P. still more glibly than
elsewdiere, it is because he is imbued with the
general belief that the higher he goes the keener
is the intellect of the presiding Judge, and the
greater the probability of his being detected.
Judge Wilkinson took the occasion of his last
days on the Bench to give a parting push to
his theory, but The Bulletin hopes he will
live to see the oath, not surrounded with addi-
tional ceremony in courts of law, but absolutely
abolished.
.*
Editor Bulletin, — A wrong impression pre-
vails re the deep-water diving off Darnley
Island. Pearl-shellers are blamed and called
murderers for sending divers down only to
become paralysed. Many men possess and
work from their own boats. The others are
paid on the “ lay ” system, and in any case the
diver is master of the vessel, even if the owner
is aboard. The diver is boss, goes down only
when and ivhere he likes, and naturally so, as
he is paid by results. There is no scarcity of
divers, though over 200 boats shell from this
port, and whoever wrote so regretfully that the
Rotumah boys were indented for this trade,
wondering how many would be left alive in 12
months, need not be afraid. Divers cannot be
imported in this way, and even supposing the
whole 16 eventually learn the business, they
will not be sent into the dangerous depths.
The fatalities at Darnley have been fearfully
numerous—two this very week —making about
20 since February last ! These men have lost
their lives from exactly the same cause
that has led so many miners to their deaths in
the fever-stricken gullies of Sud-Est and else-
where—the hope of success. The one in search
of pearls and shell, the other of good, red
gold. No, sir, write it not down Murder when
Suicide is the word.— Max. Thursday Island,
July 8,1891 k
Dear ‘Bulletin,— The Age publishes a long
article re Paraguay by one who “ has been
there,” and which alludes disparagingly to the
New Australia scheme. The strongest points
against the newsettlement are the unsuitability,
both from geographical position and climatic
influences, of Paraguay for productive purposes,
and the fact that the descendants of the immi-
grants will not be exempt from military
service and will have no political rights other
than those which the natives themselves possess
to-day. The writer evidently did not stay very
long in the country, or he would not have re-
ferred to the Paraguayan as “a lazy brute
willing at any moment to cut your throat,” and
to the English and Portuguese as “the only
two nations worthy of respect.” On the contrary,
the Paraguayan is the most fearless soldier and
hospitable host in South America, and the only
matter for regret is that there is not enough of
him, the war with Brazil having resulted in the
slaughter of nearly all the adult male popula-
tion. The Portuguese are the most treacherous
and spiritless of all the Latin races, and, as for
the English—well, as far as others see us, we
are classified as on a par with the brute species.
“ Nobody but a dog or an Englishman would
do so-and-so,” is the way wherein the South
American refers to any discreditable action.
Such words as “estancio,” “ enstrangero,” &c.,
are not Spanish or anything else, but, for all
that, the article is well worth the attention of
those New Australians who have not yet cashed
up for the visionary Promised Land. —Yours,
&c., Charles Jxinor.
■ ♦
The case of Messrs. Matthew Davies and
Millidge was still sub judice at time of writing
—so very much sub judice that not a word
about the coming trial was breathed by the
Melbourne press. The ignorant outside public
hangs on to the hope that these gentlemen will
be afforded a fair and square chance to prove
their oft-told innocence, but a certain mystery
which surrounds the situation seems to perplex
even some of the Judges. On Thursday week
the manager of the Standard was prepared to
appeal against the contempt of Court sentence
passed upon him by the Chief Justice. It had
been perfectly well understood that he would
appeal at the time stated, yet the counsel
representing “defendants” (D. & M.) applied
for a five days’ adjournment of the hearing.
Odd that after being in such a hurry to get the
Standard silenced they should not be prepared
to renew their arguments as per previous
arrangement. Said Judge W illtams, “I am
afraid there is something behind all this,”
referring to the unreadiness of the Davies and
Millidge side. Which pertinent remark was
reported in the Standard only, not in any
other journal. This, too, was odd—very odd.
New South Wales ex-Treasurer M'Millan, the
man with the Sunday-school voice, is opposed
on high moral grounds to payment of members.
He says ;
It may be a very good thing in one sense as a conserva-
tive measure to prevent too frequent dissolutions, but at
the same time, it has a demoralising effect both upon
members of Parliament and upon the public. No matter
how honest a man may be, especially a man not in very
good circumstances, if he gives a vote not quite in accord
with his previous actions, which vote has the effect of
preventing a dissolution, the vote is bound to be construed
as a corrupt one. This practice of paying the members
has to my mind thrown an air of suspicion over the actions
of a large number of members, which has tended to the
degradation of our public life.
M'Millan’s theory apparently is that if a man
is in good circumstances then there is no room
for suspicion—he won’t go crooked to preserve
his Ministerial salary, or to get a private bill
(say one of the Colo Valley syndicate descrip-
tion) pub through, or for his free pass, or to get
a profitable billet for a relative, or a railway
through his land at a cost of £250,000 or so,
or to keep out a fiscal system Which interferes
with his importing business, or to prevent some
Ministry getting in which threatens to interfere
with the great legal monopoly op to impose a
land-tax on his big estate, or anything else.
But Mr. M'Millan needn’t worry about that
“air of suspicion;” it has been there for the
last quarter of a century. The Fat Man has
always been giving votes which weren’t in
accordance with his previous actions —or,
rather, which were horribly in accordance with
his previous actions ; bub he generally did it to
get as much from the State in one lump as pay-
ment of members costs altogether in five years
or more.
«.
A paragraph in James Munro’s insolvency
affidavit deserves special notice. “ Shortly
after the Real Estate Bank was placed in
liquidation, the whole cf the uncalled capital
on the shares held by him, £37,515, was called,
up, and while he was holding the office of
Agent-General they issued a writ against him
for the amount and obtained judgment. He
then returned to Australia, resigned his office
as Agent-General, and sequestrated his estate,
because he could not make any satisfactory
arrangement for gradual or partial payment of
the moneys due.” Every one remembers the
miserable farce of Munro’s return to Mel-
bourne, and subsequent resignation of his post.
He took the trip for the benefit of his health,
according to Cabinet fiction, and decided
to stay after he had arrived, because the
“ English climate didn’t agree with him.”
Jimmy must have forgotten all the miserable
humbug that was officially flung in the
face of the public, six months ago. Let
that pass. Munro sequestrated his estate
because he could not make arrangements for
gradual or partial payment of £37,515. Now
he is made a “free man” on the basis of
sixpence in the £. One would like to know
what has become of Munro’s recent possibilities
of gradual payment. A little while ago he
wanted to arrange with the Real Estate Bank
(not to mention other large creditors) to dis-
burse £37,515 by degrees. Now he closes t’.o
matter for good and all, at a total cost of, say,
£2OO0 —being a “ tanner ” dividend on £BO,OOO
odd. The difference between what a busted
financier says and what he does is great indeed.
Thk Anglican Bishop of Brisbane has gone
’Ome on a begging expedition, the local church
being comatose and parsonieal salaries heavily
in arrcar. This abject variety of ecclesiastical
mendicant is a standing disgrace to Australia,
lie can’t get sufficient support in this country
because believers are few and churches many,
and it costs so much to keep up the array of
portly prelates that there is little left over f< r
the inferior clergy ; also because the Anglican
Church isn’t vigorous enough, and its hell isn’t
sufficiently real to make anybody take any
genuine interest in it, and its pallid curates
have a lisp and say, in a falsetto voice, that
“ Bawabbas was a wobbaw.” Therefore, some
bishop or other authority goes ’Ome every now
and then and tries to raise money by depicting
the lamentable state of the Australian heathen
—the British philanthropist is so accustomed to
powerful lies about cannibals and other horrors
that the only way to move him is to create a
general impression that the white Australian
stalks naked about the streets gnawing raw
bullock’s liver and blowing horrible melodies
through a cow’s horn. When the bishop comes
back the vastness of his libel on this country
may be judged by the amount of the subscrip-
tions ; if he adheres to the solid truth, he won’t
get enough to cover his whisky-bill.
Regina versus Kops.
Editor Bulletin, —The New South Wales
Judges have, after much deliberation, affirmed
the principle that the failure of an accused per-
son to tender his own evidence on his own
behalf when “allowed, but not compellable ” to
do so, affords presumption of guilt to go to the
jury, Mr. Justice Innes strongly dissenting.
Judge Innes is logically right, but he failed to
advance the strongest possible argument in sup-
port of his position.
An innocent man may be subject to appar-
ently incriminating circumstances. To state
the whole truth would be to invite undeserved
conviction in some cases, and then to rely on
the weakness or uncertainty of the case for the
prosecution would appear the only course open
to avoid being made to suffer unjustly, unless
not only direct evidence of the dangerous cir-
cumstances can be given, but also sufficient
explanatory evidence to destroy the incriminat-
ing effect of these circumstances —which is not
always possible.
A guilty person having anticipated the charge,
has been from the first in a state of “ relevant
observativeness.” He may, therefore, be in a
position to testify, and while corroborating the
incriminating evidence adduced by the prose-
cution, nullify its incriminating effect by evi-
dence of apparently explanatory circumstances
deliberately brought about with that end in
view, or fortuitously occurring to his advantage.
On the other hand, an innocent person has not
been in this condition of “ relevant observative-
ness,” and, under the disadvantage of apparent
incrimination, may be actually unable to indi-
cate rebutting or explanatory circumstances
which have occurred. And, whatever may be
the expectation that an accused person can, if
innocent, adduce evidence to rebut or explain
away his apparent incrimination, it is merely
inferred, and not known, that he can do so.
It is, therefore, not to be presumed that an
accused person’s abstention from giving evi-
dence in his own behalf to combat the points
formulated against him, proceeds from a con-
sciousness of guilt, unless, indeed, evidence can
be adduced on the part of the prosecution to show
plainly that if innocent he must be in possession of
knowledge to enable him to give such evidence.
The utmost construction that can be placed on
his abstention is that such evidence, if any, as
he could give, outside a mere sworn reiteration
of his plea, “ Not guilty ,” appears to him from
any came (which it is begging the question to
assume is his guilt) more likely to prejudice
than to clear up his case, in view of the pro-
bable eagerness of the other side to make the
most of “damaging admissions,” It is con-
ceivable that, as an innocent person, he may
have no knowledge of the origin of the damag-
ing circumstances, while he knows them to be
facts ; and that his only chance rests on the
indefiniteness or iuconciusiveness of the case
argued against him, which indefiniteness or in-
conclusiveness his only possible testimony would
destroy.
Moreover, it is legally presumed both that a
man will adhere to his own interest, and also
that he is possessed of ordinary intelligence and
capacity for prudence. Surely, then, when
circumstantial evidence of, superficially, a most
damning kind is found against a person in a
case where a reasonable presumption exists that
the exercise of ordinary prudence on the part
of the accused, if guilty, would have caused
that evidence to be non-existent, there is ground
for inferring that such circumstantial evidence
has arisen out of some cause other than his
guilt, and is really irrelevant to the question of
guilt. This inference must weigh commen-
surately with any other.
J. A. ANDREWS.
Melbourne Argus, whooping for G. Re-
publican Dibbs, says, amongst other things:
“ Without 'payment of members the representation
of the working classes is practically impossible.”
(Bulletin’s italics.) And then asks: “What
have the Labour-members done in Sydney?”
That is easily answered. They have pushed
through One-raan-one-vote, which is not yet law in
Victoria nor in Queensland, and never will be if Fat-
man can help it. They have passed many demo-
cratic measures, since strangled by the House ot
the Glutton’s Snore. Their influence has been a
strong factor in the prompt prosecution of the
land-bank and other brigands who fattened on the
savings of the people—the class of frauds who are
apparently shielded from punishment by all the
forces of Victorian society. The Argus joins the
political burglars who persuade the Australian
taxpayer to poison his watch-dog.


pticd to ||uit all l|ighb.
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS,
Jewkllbry Showrooms,
IS III! STICK MTItKKT, IVOSKV,
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
I"
A. Q-ood. axxdi Clieap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
i
Manufactured bv
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
IWYEBVE (Switzerland?.
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and yon know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
August 2, 1893.
Mt Dear Moor.vbinoa—
I certainly think Lady Duff is over-doing the
patronage-trick. If an abnormal dahlia or a
special tomato turns up at a fashionable florist’s
or a leading apple-stall Lady D. swoops down on
those places and gushes over the freak while the
crowd flattens its nose on the window-pane and
isn’t let in to buy a button-holer or 16 bananas in a
bag until her ladyship goes away. Other vice-
regalities usually made the prize-pumpkin or the
premature primrose wend its way to Government
House for social encouragement.
And Lady Duff’s minute inspections of the
charity laundries where reformed characters work
out their repentance in clear-starching, led to a
rather funny situation at a fashionable dance the
other night. “ Lady Duff said she admired the
way my shirt is ironed,” said a wicked youth to
an astonished damsel who gaspingly asked him
what he was talking about. “ Well, she said so,”
he insisted—and then, after an effective pause
(which the damsel filled in by wondering if it was
correct vice-regal snip to make complimentary
remarks about your he-partner’s linen) he added :
“My shirt was on top at the Forgiven Flossies’
laundry competition, don tc her see ! ”
An Australian Minister of the Crown (not to
put too fine a point upon it), who se. ms
to have lately written a voluminous and
occasionally ungrammatical, but always elo-
quent and always ungiiardedly-amorous, letter to
the wife of an ex-actor of very small parts, is
doubtless delighted at the fact that the blushful
effusion fell right into the husband's clutches.
But the worst of it is that hubby is now hawking
the mistaken erotic impulse of an undisciplined
official round to various newspaper-offices and
offering the interesting spasms of ministerial sen-
timent at so much per page, with marginal com-
ments by the enraged husband thrown in to
enhance the effect!
Considering the great moral toboggan upon
which it is evident (from the sighings and yearn-
ings of the frisky people) the distinguished author
is ready to embark, the enraged husband should
make a fair cheque out of his enterprise, and care-
fully-marked newspaper's ought to fall like hail on
the Hon. Dash, at Blank Club, for months to
come. But it just strikes me that the husband of
a (presumably) pretty woman who doesn’t object
to advertising his wife’s —er —magnetic attractions
by haggling over the newspaper-value of her
naughtiest billets-doux is, regarded from a manly
point of view, a very, very inferior being to the
gay Lothario who writes them.
Mrs. Dr. Potts’ first lecture to “ women only,”
at Sydney Lyceum, the other day, was over-run
with females—principally of the married variety
—but one or two male officials of the theatre
lingered to guide the audience to its chairs and
lend variety to the scene. I shall not soon forget
the damask blush that mantled to the very ears
of one unfortunate youth whom fate had driven to
the front with a (managerial) bouquet for the
lecturess, and who couldn’t get an opportunity to
present it and flee until Dr. Potts stopped on the
very brink of her peculiar confidences and glared
over her spectacles at poor Peeping Tom.
Another of the ushers delicately kept his back
turned to the stage for the first yard-and-a-half of
lecture, but when the atmosphere began to look
distinctly blue for a mixed crowd, the bashful
youth left late-comers to sort themselves out and
modestly bolted for the door. One or two women
brought wool-work, and several brought babies—
indeed, the lecture had most point for ladies with
a quiver-full, it seemed to me.
Dr. Potts is a nervo-fibrous, dead-earnest-seem-
ing little woman, somewhat past middle age. who,
like that amusing gusher, Antoinette Stirling,
“doesn’t wear corsets,” and is filled with a solemn
conviction that Woman can never hope to toe
the same muscular scratch as Man no matter how
much swagger she carries and how much starch
bristles in her dickey. The athletic girl she
regards as merely the ground-plan of a toast-and-
barley-water invalid—in spite of modern gym-
nasia and the apparently aggressive health of the
lawn-tennis girl. Riding, rowing, skipping,
shooting, jumping, if too ardently enjoyed, are the
damsel’s way to doom, according to Anna Potts—
especially riding, unless the Amazon takes her
horse-exercise pick-a-back. And I must say the
notion commends itself, especially when you
remember the chipper little figure Brenda Gibson
presents (in the “ Amazons ”) with her cut-a-way-
ooat, corduroy breeches, tops, spurs, and so on.
I thought the lecturess had a rather monotonous
voice-from-the-tomb-like delivery. Her remarks
leave the impression that it is the slowest thing on
earth to be a woman, unless you are content to
regard yourself as eggshell china or a sort of
human “glass—this side up—with care.” One
humorous thing in an infrequently humorous
talkee-talkee was when the lecturess declared that
women ought to be “egg-shaped ’’—widest at the
hips and tapering to both head and feet—and it
struck me as being quite a waste of time to talk
about feminine outlines from the Lyceum stage
with Addie Conyers’ tights still unforgotten.
And another tiling that tickled me was when the
learned doctress urged women to tell their own
•stories, and not let their husbands tell them. Mrs.
Potts is said to be a better raconteur than most
men (you see, she gets her living at it), but the
average woman can no more tell a story than she
can hit a house with a brick. In nine oases out
of ten-she doesn’t even know a good story when
she hears it. By the way, the Pottsian stage-
arrangements are shockingly funereal—a table
covered with grisly legs and arms and skulls,
among which she tosses the flowers that come over
the floats. It reminds you of the grinning funeral-
wreaths that the widow keeps putting atop of the
grinning skeleton in the buried bone-box.
I wonder how the crowd of women who attended
Mrs. Doctor Potts’ first “free lecture —to women
only ” would have felt had they known that a
number of brazen he-reporters were concealed
among the scenery at the wings taking expur-
gated notes of the proceedings ? I haven’t heard
whether any lady scribes of a Feminine Suffrage
tendency haunted the flies on the occasion of Dr.
Harrison’s address to men only, but if the sexes
are going to be equal they ought to have been
there, just to show that they had the courage of
their opinions. But what a magnificent nerve
Mrs. P. [must have to wade calmly through her
boudoir confidences with all these men clustering
at the prompt side! —though, mind you, from
what I remember of the audience of hard-faced
women, some of them calmly knitting all through
the most alarming part of the lecture, like Dickens’
citoyennes at the foot of the guillotine—l don’t
tliink many of them would have been nonplussed
by a man or two, either.
A rosy time—while it lasts—is in store for any
lions and lionesses of the stage who may be roar-
ing in Sydney for the next six months. A society
couple who were wont to keep open house for any-
one whose name was printed moderately large on
the bill at any “ possible ” play-house have again
turned up in Sydney—the lady picked out with
diamonds and her spouse in (apparently) the same
white weskit wherein he set sail. They come
“ charged with remembrances from Lord and
Lady Carington to many friends in Sydney whose
acquaintance is cherished,” according to the local
D.T.
But that sort of veiled compliment doesn’t do
anybody any good that I can see. What society
yearns for is a carefully-compiled detailed list of
those “cherished” friends. As it stands, the
Oaringtonian messages lose all point by being
more collective than individual. Any departed
Governor might say airily, “ Give my love to the
mob.”
At the Sydney Liedertafel’s Town Hall per-
formance there was a huge and gaily-dressed
audience, but the programme was another thing.
The “Long Beard’s Saga,” presented by a con-
fessedly musical president, turned out to be a very
dismal affair. In a Schubert Serenade the
“skirling” of the Liedertafel was affected by the
failure of the first number, and it was only in the
second part that they got back to their old form
in “Peace” and “They Kissed.” The Lieder-
tafel orchestra’s chief bit was the overture from
“ Rosamnnde,” which was, I thought, very
daintily played.
But isn’t the Liedertafel getting too much out-
side assistance for its shows ? Ada Crossley in
blue and gold (tvhy did they stand her upon a
little double platform, as if she was being weighed-
in or put up to auction ?), Miss Baber and Ernest
Truman were too many soloists for what was to be
the concert of a society. As matters stand,
people want to know whether it is the
Liedertafel or the outside assistance which
really is the Liedertafel. It was Mr. Truman’s
Sydney debut, by the way, so perhaps the dis-
appointment one felt on hearing him was due to
the performer’s nervousness. But he certainly
made hay of a song without words, and a per-
sonally sub-edited bit from “Samson and Delilah”
seemed simply the careful and Well-counted pei-
fonnance of a much taught student. However, it
is said that Mr. Truman is more of an organist
than a pianist.
“The Vicar of Bray,” at Sydney Lyceum, isn’t
a desperately much-tailored opera, for 'almost
everybody wears the same clothes from curtain to
curtain. Florence Young looks well in grey gown
with pink bars and a bonnet lined with pink, but
her white wedding-dress doesn’t become her;
Mrs. Bracy wears a pleasing combination of
biscuit and sky-blue, and pretty Violet Varley
(are all of those twinkling diamonds genuine ?)
looks very engaging in lemon-coloured accordeon-
pleats. The ballerinas’ frocks are made very long,
in deference to the Church.
There is no “ water fly ” dressing among the
men of Bray-though the red huntsmen enliven
the mise-en-action. Mr. Tapley, the new tenor,
wears sober clerical attire followed by a tourist
suit, sothed.c. cannot yet sit in full judgment upon
him. The funniest thing among the he-actors of
the caste was that Howard Vernon’s near-side
stocking had a Jacob’s ladder in it, and that his
clumsy white spats made his feet look like the
hoofs of a trotting horse in full panoply. But as
the talented Mr. Vernon (an Australian native,
by the way) wasn’t posing as a stage beauty, these
little things only helped the effect.
The first burst of Australian melody dedicated
to Lady Duff is the “Heather Waltz,” of Miss
Maud Eitzstnbbs (Mrs. Harry Woods), who, it
seems, can write music as well as play it. The
work (which, at Lady Duff’s request, the composer
is to play at Government House) is a very dashing
thing, in swinging time, and might be given either
as a concert or a dancing-waltz with equally good
effect; it is a much more virile composition than
usually comes from a woman’s pen. “Fitzgerald
Brothers’ Circus Gallop ” is hardly worthy its
title, although the speaking likeness of the Fitz-
geralds and “Commodore” on the front page
make it invaluable as a souvenir.
I was amused the otherjday at the advt. of the
new Criterion play, “Lady Bountiful.” There
was a verse of poetry in it :
My masters, will you hear a simple tale?
No war, no lust, not a commandment broken
By air or madaine—but a history
To make a rhyme to speed a young maid’s hour.
But then came the terribly significant announce-
ment:—“N.B. — This play can be given lot jive
nights only ” !!
That one should not believe quite all one
hears was exemplified in my remarks in last
week’s issue of The Bulletin on Miss Colborne-
Baber’s singing at the Sydney Quintette Society’s
concert on the 22nd ult. It is unnecessary to
repeat the exact words of the paragraph, as
they are proved to have been quite fouuda-
tionless, but I was not present on the occa-
sion, and I admit unwisely wrote the notice
on what was undoubtedly prejudiced infor-
mation. As a matter of insurmountable fact,
Miss Colborne-Baber received a ringing encore for
her singing of “Salve Maria,” and as no encores
were supposedly permitted at the concert, the com-
pliment had double value. Governor Duff also
sent round and congratulated Miss Baber—
through Mr. Kellermann —on the success of her
vocalism, and especially asked if she was an
English singer—which is the highest compliment
an Englishman can pay anybody without hurting
himself. Miss Baber is a Maoriland lady, as a
matter of fact.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITTH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .. “ The Doable Event.”
Lyceum “ The Vicar of Bray.”
Criterion “ Revivals.”
Theatre Royal. .. “ The Miner’s Right.”
Rkwern Railway Station... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's.. “ Sweet Lavender.”
Opera House Variety Show.
Buou “David Garrick.”
George Darrell’s “Double Event” started
on Monday at Sydney Her Majesty’s. There are
two lords in the “ Double Event,” one black-
hearted and utterly demoniac publican, one book-
maker of the most fiendish description, a three-
card man of low character, about twenty horses
one of which is nobbled, a skirt dance and an
apparition. It is strictly Australian, mainly by
reason of the horses. Ihe way to make a drama
Australian is either to have horses or a football
scrum in it. The sole end and aim of the pro-
ceedings is that a certain animal shall win the
Derby and Cup, and the demoniac publican, the
bookmaker, the apparition and the three-card man
are “ agin ” him. When the wicked trio aren’t
nobbling the horse, the bookmaker and the three-
card man are blasting each other, and the publican
is cursing both of them.
* • #
All through the drama the publican pur-
sues the wife of one of the lords with brutal
execrations, a large, dirty fist, and an Irish accent.
Therefore, when he and the dreadful bookmaker
are arrested on the evidence of the three-card
man, and the three-card man presumably marries
the barmaid, the feeling is one of general relief.
Miss Jennie Lee, as the barmaid, is the brightest
and most distinctive character in the drama. Miss
Myra Kemble plays the heroine gracefully and in-
telligently, but she has little of serious importance
to do except scornfully cast off the publican.
Sterling White, as the publican, is a flinty ruffian
with a fierce, ash-coloured countenance, a flattened
nose and a truculent roar. J. W, Sweeney is an
unctuous and fruity bookmaker; Joe Tolano, an
unstable and shifty three-card man, and Albert
Norman makes a decent kind of lord. As for
the energetic George Darrell, he is absolutely un-
changed, and plays with the same deadly calm
and the same shiny belltopper as of yore.
** * *
“For the Term of His Natural Life,’’
that tale of blood and elaborate misery, was
revived on Saturday at Sydney Royal with good
results. Whether the old convict yarn is entirely
suited to the present depressed condition of things
is an open question, but a large number of people
always like their misery neat, and “ His Natural
Life,” like “ East Lynne,” is eminently adapted
to the damp and tragic section of the community.
The “ Miner’s Right ” follows on Saturday.
** m m
“Lady Bountiful,” produced at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday, contains a young mother
who dies miserably and sorrowfully, a motherless
infant, a youthful aristocrat in a vain search for
work, an elderly person whose memory gives way
through grief over his bankruptcy (said bank-
ruptcy having been brought about through backing
a bill for a broken swell), a lady with a lost lover,
and an aged person who spends the autumn of his
life waiting for a woman and loses her at the
altar. And it doesn’t even end happily, for the
curtain falls on an interrupted marriage, and the
aged person’s dejected white head in the distance,
and his lost bride weeping on the floor ; and there
is a general understanding that the poor old man
with the lost memory is spending his old age in
Nebraska, along with the swell whose bill was
his undoing. Nevertheless, “Lady Bountiful ”is
a play that will prosper. Dot Boucicault has
steadily developed into the best character-actor in
Australia, and one of the best in the world.
His rendering of the ancient swell who lives on
artistic borrowing and is shocked at the ingratitude
of the people he borrows from, is perfect. Mr.
Brough does a fine piece of acting as the ruined
man with the lost memory, and the only jarring
note was the brutal, unfeeling laugh of the fat con-
tmgent in the dress-circle when it found that h«
had gone crazy over a mere bankruptcy, Tither
ior^ e ’Jf ran k Cates, Mrs. Brougli, Missßomer, and
Miss Emma Temple are the other leading features
ot the play, and are all commendable. The latter
lady’s death-scene deserves particular mention as
a natural kind of death, and very different from
the long-drawn-out and maudlin “ East Lynne”
variety. “ Sophia ” will be played on Friday for
Cecil Ward’s benefit, and “A Village Priest” on
Saturday. Cates has a matinee benefit on Tues-
day.
« *K » ’ W
Both the circuses are doing their last week
in Sydney. Fitzgerald’s show is now adorned by
the lady cannon ball, who is shot out of a piece of
ordnance and is caught by a gentleman suspended
from a trapeze. Generally this performance goes
all right, but on Saturday the lady hung fire and
then went off sideways, and butted the trapeze
gentleman into an insensible state with her head.
* iff 5K *
A movement is on foot to tender a big
complimentary benefit to Mr. W. J. Wilson, a
gentleman who has been known in Sydney for
over 32 years as a scenic-artist and. theatrical
manager. Mr. Wilson was a partner with the
late Signor Majeroni in the ill-fated Opera House,
and with Mr, F. Hiscocks in the once almost
equally ill-fated Garrick, and he lost a moderate
fortune in both specs. Since then the world has
gone none too well with him, and a benefit in his
case would be well-deserved.
iff iff iff iff
“ The Vicar of Bray,” at Sydney Lyceum,
is a two-act operetta bearing a faint resemblance
to a moral tale of the middle ages, and for a nice
change in the theatrical weather it answers charm-
ingly. It is doubtful, though, if the average
audience would stand much trousers-opera in
which the ballerinas’ frocks come down to their
insteps, and the tenor only once relapses into
visible half-way hosiery put on as a sop to the
dress-cirole. Joseph Tapley is the tenor, and is
remarkable for looking less like a tenor than is
usual, and more like an ordinary stage vocalist who
doesn’t yawn and dawdle through his business
and then rush forward with a piercing shriek and
wait for the bouquets to fall. Mr, Tapley acts
Henry Sandford, besides warbling him in a sweet
and easy, if somewhat spft-sawdery, voice; he
probably considers he dances him, too, but Mr.
T.’s dancing simply looks as if he were squinting
with both feet, and in this one department the
circle longs for its bounding Ryley.
* * *
Lauri, as the Vicar, is the dancer, and
several other attractions of the show. The smiling
George has a rich and fruity voice, and the Vicar’s
music appears to fit it to a quaver; Florence
Young (Winifred) keeps on improving herself;
Mrs. Bracy, as a “ widow of thirty-three,” has a
part which suits her, and her eccentric dance with
the Vicar raised the roof. Violet Varley, as
Nellie Bly, a “ premiere danseuse,” gave a millen-
nial aspect to the opera—a sort of the last-shall-
be-first expression—for the fetching Violet dances
a pas sent as if it were a sack-race. Howard
Vernon has a good vocalised ditty in the
first act, and then fades away until the last
scene, and Sid. Deane, as Tommy, wisely
tells the audience that there may be some
tears in bis voice for fear, perhaps, they
should think he had swallowed a nutmeg-grater.
A sketch of the “Vicar” plot is held over until
the first blue moon, but the music is quaint,
pretty, and eccentric, if not of the easily-whistled
sort. Ballerinas, huntsmen, Dorcas maidens and
curates occur in shoals, and a chorus of little girls
and boys, dressed like the little boy from Manly,
aren’t the least popular part of the show. Leon
Caron is conductor, and his massive head is thrown
against some very pretty scenery in the course of
the opera.
** * *
Madame Antoinette Sterling is to give a
series of farewell concerts throughout the Austra-
lian capitals. The Bulletin is glad— not about
the concerts, but about the farewell.
** * *
Melbourne, being reduced to one solitary
theatre just now, is very glad to see “Sweet
Lavender ”at the Princess’. Pinero’s play is not
a new sensation, unfortunately, and those who
have not forgotten the charm of its first Australian
production, at the Bijou, will criticise the present
company. Miss Watson, in an important part, is
scarcely as light and joyous as Miss Gilmore used
to be. The banker’s discarded “ victim ” was
effectively played by Lucia Harwood, but Miss
Gwytme merely looks like a tear-stained landlady.
If Brenda Gibson had her drawbacks she was at
least a more spontaneous Lavender than Hilda
Spong, who happens, also, to be too tall for the
text. The author wrote for a long Minnie and a
short Lavender. Now we have the original state
of girls completely reversed. Minnie twits her
cousin with idolising “ such a little tiling,” who is
larger than herself all the time. As for Mr. Cos-
grove, he bristles with reasons why no stage
maiden ought to lose her appetite for his peculiar
sake. Now his predecessor, Cecil Ward, looked
equal to inspiring a larger quantity of romantic
passion than this world could contain, and when
Cecil sighed one almoft expected the universe to
explode with a great bang. Certainly the all-
round performance at the Bijou was better than
this.
* # *
However, the play chiefly consists of Dick
Phenyl, and people who compare Thornton, the
slavish imitator, with Edward Terry, the original,
will be quite satisfied with Terry—provided they
are not misled by advts. into expecting a “great
comedian.” Terry was never reckoned very great
in his own country ; this is the first time he has
acted outside of it, and his magnitude has not
increased. Terry is a good comedian within
certain limits; some of his mannerisms are very
amusing; his attempts at pathos are apt to be
whiney and unreal, as they ever were. His con-
ception of Dick Phenyl seems thoroughly con-
sistent, whereas Thornton seemed to forget, from
time to time, the performance he was copying,
and to drift into a third person. Terry has been
discounted by more than one imitator. His rapid
utterances were familiarised to Australia by Fred
Leslie, and so it follows naturally that he suffers
through coming after the dreary Lonnen, who
imitated Leslie. Giving Terry his due doesn’t
make him a great comedian. Anson might have
built a stronger Dick Phenyl; yet it may be
doubted whether Thornton, Leslie, or Loiinen,
could have produced anything equal to Terry’s
work in this play. “Sweet Lavender” is likely
to run for a few more nights, and “ Liberty Hall ”
mav follow.
# # •
The over-rating of Edward Terry by the
Melbourne dailies led to ridiculous notices. An
evening print, starting on the assumption that
Terry was “ world-famed,” endeavoured to explain
away “whatever disappointment might have been
felt” by discovering that “Sweet Lavender”""
evidently new to the ingenuous critic—was lh«


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,292,016 ss. Id.,
and its SURPLUS over all liabilities <o £3,457.808 Ss. Id., being the LARGEST
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Notr.—This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
Insurance Department. The Assets, Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
the State by the Insurance Superintendent.
The Old Blend
WMsKy
°f .< i Ho r se
Cellar
WHI'
direct «om distillers.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. ME! LOW,
lAATKBSB SCOTCH MAT,
"V
Edinburgh
sickest of plays, only made tolerable by the arts
of tlie marvellous actor from Hingland. The
comedy, it appeared, was stupid, dull, and com-
monplace in all respects save Edward Terry. This
ghastly notice was subsequently amended, and it
re-appeared in later editions with most of the
blatant ignorance left out.
«« « «
Other Melbourne shows are what they
were before, or rather less. The Greenwoods
faded away from the Bijou one night last week —
tlie curtain forgot to rise, and Marwibel was seen
no more. Greenaway is now putting in three
nights of “David Garrick ” at the same ill-fated
house. Gloom gathers thicker over the struggling
side-shows, and there is nothing new except an
“electrical piano” which plays itself by phono-
graph, or some other myst rious agency. They
plank a piece of music in front of the keys,
whereupon ghostly hands thump out the melody,
and the pedals fall beneath the tread of invisible
boots. And all for sixpence.
# * •
The man who owns the soul of this same
piano spends much of his time on his knees pray-
nm for the annihilation of the King of Slam by
the French forces. A while back be ran a circus
in the capital of Siam, and besought the patronage
of royalty. The King duly came along, “on the
nod ” with a guard of 300 soldiers who surrounded
the tent whilst His Majesty sat weeping at the
funny clowns inside. Each soldier made a hole
through the tent with his bayonet in order that he
might stand at ease and watch the performance,
consequently there was not much tent left at the
finish. Next morning the proprietor waited upon
the King to ask his intentions concerning a
lump sum for damages, and His Majesty
said “No savee,” or Siamese to that
effect. Being pressed to “savee” the miserable
despot offered to let the circus man take it out of
the army with a bludgeon, but the lessee of the
tattered canvas replied that mere vengeance
“ wouldn’t mend his tent.” Then the King
told him to pick a few of the fattest soldiers and
wash out his grievance in their flowing gore, but
the circus man refused this compromise, and de-
manded cash, point blank. The effect of “ cash ”
upon the King of Siam was electrical. He climbed
upon the throne, thumped his head thrice with
his jewelled sceptre, and in one brief instant the
circus man found himself chucked out of the
palace by a large body of troops. Hence his dis-
like for the reigning monarch.
»« « «
“But a violent shock from the strings
brings us back to the central idea, and from this
point we seem to see the struggle in Egmont’s
mind between his duty and life with its pleasures
and love, the allurements of which (bars 115-122),
typified by the plaintive wind passages, he rejects
with ever-increasing vehemence (be the emphatic
chords of the strings noted.) This antithesis
reaches its climax with the passionate phrase of
the violins, by which all further hesitancy seems
to be brushed away.” (Extract from Marshall
Hall’s gratuitous explanation of Beethoven music.)
’Tis a pity that a shock from a garden-hose can’t
bring Marshall Hall back to the central idea that
he’s a passionate phraser of fiddledeedee. How
comes it that a man of average ability can con-
sider himself qualified by a musical education to
insult common-sense? What a warning is Mar-
shall Hall to the people who would have State-
school children saturated with the theory of
music and the land flooded with professors that
“feel” the allurements of love in their plaintive
wind passages. Enough of these bogus phantasies
of mechanical art. Let Marshall Hall be dropped
down tlie bell of a heroic trumpet and laid aside
until his mind has hardened.
At Poverty Point.
A London journal asks, talking of the success of Mrs.
Gown-Trotter: “ But who cannot evoke plaudits from an
American backwoodsman or an Australian squatter?”
Weil, Toole couldn’t, for one.
According to Japan Daily Mail, “Mrs. Brown Potter has
had splendid schooling, through having Mr. Btllew, the
greatest purist on the English stage, to watch every word
she uttered.” Great Kyrle, that he should live to be
called that 1
The most insufferable creature in Melbourne at present
is the professional amateur; tlie long-maned crank who
travels on the strength of his performance in some
suburban tenth-rate hall. He frequents the Block in
shoals, and is understood to he “ writing a play."
It is remarked how much better Melba sings when she
is on the stage with Jean de Reszke. The Australian
diva, by the way, has a formidable rival as a songstress in
Madame Calv 6, who is immensely popu'ar, and, in addi-
tion to being a perfect artist vocally, is a magnificent
actress.
Frank Thornton, when the mail left, was still nibbling
after “Charley’s Aunt ” for Australia. As a last week’s
cable says he comes here towards the end of the year, he
has probably succeeded.
The farewell appearance of the Gaiety Co. at Adelaide
was the occasion for another demonstration in favour of
Alice Leamar. When Alice wouldn’t or couldn’t give the
boys another verse, they' howled for half-an-hour and
threw oranges at the next person who dared to take the
stage. This, unhappily, was Courtneidge, instead of
Lonnen. Tw o oranges tell upon the little man with a
sickening thud whilst he was trying to soothe their feel-
ings with a comic song. Then Courtneidge solemnly
cursed the fiend who smote him with fruit in this un-
called-for manner, and order was gradually restored.
Edward Terry says truly that “ Kate Vaughan was the
model for skirt dancers, and no one else has ever been
able lo touch her.” Kate had the ideal figure, as well as
the face, for the business, and, moreover, she had acquired
the poetry of motion in the delirious can-can, and knew
how to dance with her legs. Most of the Alice Leth-
bridge tribe would be seen to cut preposterous cap-rain
short skirts. Tlie few glimpses that one gets of the legs
of these long drapery-manipulators are anything but
entrancing. Tlie darlings straddle around tlie stage, and
get their limbs into such positions-especially when
crouching at the finish of a “dunceas the limelight
would blush to look upon.
False music enthusiasm is perhaps less sickening than
the farce of manufacturing poetry from wild streaks of
paint, or of finding a secret meaning in each Shake-
spearian sentence. 6. C. Miln used to say that he would
dearly like to meet old Dixine William, and ask him what
he thought of the fools who formed societies for the
discussion of a doubtful line in act 2, scene 5. Miln's
idea was that Shakespeare’s involved meanings were the
result of drink in most cases. “The bard must have been
a boozer,” said Miln. Tiiough, mind you, he thought
none the worse of his patron saint on that account.
A correspondent tells Tub Bulletin that the Theatre
Royal, Hobart (where G. V. Brooke played for two lengthy
seasons, the first concluding in July, 1858, and the other
during 1862), is the oldest place of the kind in Austra-
lasia, having been used continuously for theatrical
business since it was built, verging towards 60 years
ago, during which long period nearly all the star actors
and actresses (lyric and dramatic) who have visited Aus-
tralia-especially in the earlier dates—have trodden its
ho irds.
Nellie Stewart is not in a convent.
Orleans wasn’t at the Savoy supper Melba gave after
the Pa- iiacoi prdmiiire.
Melbourne evening papers are growing bitterly sarcastic
at the expense of the Gaiety Co. and “dear old Teddy'
Lonnen.” “ Speak ill ot no player till he’s gone.”
“My song is my life; it is part of my existence,”
asserts Mine. Sterling. Unhappily, other people exist,
too.
Some birthdays:—January 7, Marie Carandini; March L
Bessie Major; April 16, Nellie Farren ; May 10, Battle
Browne ; May 23, Dion Boucicault; July 13, Robert
Brough ; August 8, Hosina M. H. Palmer ; September 11,
Marian Burton ; October 5, Essie Jenyns ; October 28,
Emma Temple ; November 4, Florence Brough.
Recently' a well-known actor took a room for himself
and wife in a city coffee-palace. Scarcely had they
retired when an angry female hurst into the room and
battered lady No. 1 for enticing her husband away. Tlie
funny part is that there is a lady in England who has a
proper legal claim to the histrionic Lothario.
Santley gave up the operatic stage in middle life simply
because he was converted to Roman Catholicism, and,
like most converts, got it had. Certain enjoined morning
abstinences, following so close on supreme nightly efforts,
were too sex ere a strain, so histrionic glory was given up
in tlie interests of religion.
Editor Bulletin,— Re recent pars, O. V. Brooke also
played a season,;including “Hamlet,” at Beechwoilh,
Vic. The hall and stage are still intact and constitute
the theatre of tlie town. We played a season there.—
Albert Bailkv, J. A. South and Duggan's Dramatic Co.,
Toowoomba (Q.), July 24.
Purcell, of “ Wild Australia” fame, sues his late part-
ner, Meston, for false imprisonment, malicious prosecu-
tion, and slander.
Fetching Jenny Opie, the Adelaide contralto who go*-'
so mixed up in the “Lord Leamington” business,
is hack in the holy city again with Worth’s Co., at Tommy
Hudson’s Bijou.
Martin Simonsen is very superstitious. He won’t start
a season on a Friday, nor hold a final dress rehearsal on
that day.
According to George Musgrove, Leumane would have
had the tenor part in the original production of “The
Mountebanks,” had he been in London at the time. Leu-
mane and Cellier were friends, the tenor having sung
under the composer at London Royalty.
Hamilton Clarke, like Marshall Hall, alway'B placed
music first and his audience second. At one Saturday
(Melh.) orchestral concert, the audience during the last
item began to escape in sections for tram and train.
Clarke brought down his baton on the d sk witli a
thundering thud, and every instrument stopped dead.
“Shut the doors!” cried the conductor. Those who
hadn’t moved, but were just going to, cheered. Those
who had moved, tried to look as if their change of position
was an accident for which they were in no way res-
ponsible. Then the orchestra started afresh at the be-
ginning of the item. /
The Wild-Cat Column.
Tlie market for the deposits of re-constructed
banks is a solemn commentary upon a good many things.
Leaving out the Federal, which isn’t a re-constructing
bank, at least not up to date, the lowest quotation is
that of the Queensland National—buyers, lls. in the
£ ; sellers, lls. 6d. The next lowest is the blatant Com-
mercial of Australia—buyers, 12s. ; sellers, 15s. After
them come the National of Australia, the A.J.S., the
E.S. and A.C., and the London Chartered, while the N.Q.
and the Commercial of Sydney still head the list.
# # *
The two banks at the very bottom are those
that have made the most vociferous row about their un-
doubted solvency, yet, apparently, those “in the know”
don’t think it good enough to rush in and buy their
deposits, and thereby make about 9 per cent, interest on
their capital in the present, with a bonus of 80 per cent,
in the future. And the two at the top of tlie list have
re constructed in a silent sort of way, and have hardly
been heard of.
* * #
The buying quotations for deposits in the
Sydney land and building societies are a rageed list of
figures. The deposiis ot the Anglo-Australian, the Mutual
Provident and the Australian Banking Co. are wanted at
Is. in the £ ; and after that the figures straggle upwards
till they reach 12s. 6.1. for Sydney Permanents. But the vast
majority of them aren’t wanted at all, or at any price, and
never will be wanted until the sea gives up its dead build-
ing society, and the sepulchre surrenders its defunct land-
bank, and ghosts with deposit-receipts in their hands rush
athwart the blackened sky at the final judgment.
* # •
The balance-sheet of the City Bank of Sydney
is a document which does not improve on closer acquaint-
ance. The item “notes in circulation” which, six
months ago, stood at £33,780 is now £176,217 10s.—
the odd half-sovereign is unaccountable which
proves that the bank lias been shovelling out paper
since its rag-money was made a legal tender. But
while the note-issue has increased by £140,000, the coin
on hand has only increased by £16,00u, therefore the
bank’s position in case of a run appears to be £124,000
worse than it was. However, under the Bank Issue Act
there is no possibility of a run at present.
# * #
When the notes are met, then the cash reserve
is just about 8 per cent, of the liabilities, and, as a
security for depositors, this is about as humble as a cash
reserve well can he. And the old, old disease which
afflicts every bank equally is conspicuous in the City’s
balance-sheet. The good assets and tlie bad and middling
—mortgages, bills, loans, dead men’s overdraws, scrip in
solvent companies, or in companies that are not quite so
solvent, and everything else is lumped together as “ Bills
discounted and other debts due to the bank, £1,582,887
4s. 2d.” As all the bank returns are built on the same
plan, a balance-sheet is of about as much use in proving
the safety of a bank as the Koran is in revealing when the
next train starts for Cow Flat.
* # #
You can often prove that a bank isn’t sound by
its balance-sheet, but you can never absolutely prove that
it sound. In fact, the ordinary balance-sheet doesn't
even profess to prove that the bank is sound. It merely
states, in the assets column, that certain amounts are
owing to it, and leaves the matter there. And when we
remember that certain amounts are still owing by John
Vann-alleged to hive been last heard of in the Govern-
ment Soup Kitchen—to the Australian Banking Co., this
information is somewhat less cheerful than it might he.
# # #
City Bank of Sydney shares (<£B paid up and
£2 to be added from reserve fund, making £lO in all),
last sales, £4 10s. ; latest buyers offering £3 10s.
# * •
The spectre of the Federal Bank’s “ reconstruc-
tion’’scheme was again heard of last week, when the
liquidator got permission to go to Adelaide and do some-
thing With that cold, dank wraith. Therefore, it would
really appear as if the Federal directors have an idea that
their bottomless bank can somehow tie patched up and
made watertight once more. Considering the ghastly
revelations about how the cold-water gang got more thaii
the whole capital of the Federal on overdraft, and how the
arch-cold-water-man himself pans out for 6d. in the £,
and many others are being retorted for 9d., The Bulletin
would suggest the following as the only scheme whereby
the institution can ever be put on a solvent basis again: ’
« * •
Let all the capital and the reserve fund be
written off as lost. Let all the unpaid capital he called
up and written off also. Then let a new capital be created
of a million, fully paid-up, and let about £400,000 ot that
be written off with the rest, and the new hank can after-
wards make a fair start with the balance. And, providtd
it sacks and utterly renounces all the old teetotal and
strictly pious crowd, who will want to rally round it
again and give it their warmest support—just as the
blow-fly warmly supports the dead bullock—there is no
reason why it shouldn’t prosper. The relations between
the old Federal and the new one will be much the same
, as a partnership between a man who has £lOO and another
who owes £OO, so that they have £4O clear between them.
The advantage to the man with the £lOO isn’t very appar-
■ ent, but it is a remarkably good thing for the person who
owes the £6O.
# # #
Of one thing The B lletin ,is sure. The
Federal can’t raise among its present proprietary the
money required to pay off its old liabilities and to S'art a
new bank on a sound basis, for its big shareholders are
among the most utterly bankrupt saints and land-boomers
in the community. The m >ney must come in part from
outside. Which means that someone is expected to buy
the shortage and the had smell of the former institution—
to pay for the privilege of making up tire deficiency—-to
rush for au interest in that valuable connection which
oonsis ed so largely in granting a prominent saint an in-
creased overdraft.
• » •
No doubt anyone who wants a valuable and
salubrious deficiency, in a healthy situation, will find the
Federal deficiency just the deficiency lie wants. Bit
there is no special demand just now for a good, upstand-
ing minus quantity.
• # •
Union Bank shares (£25 paid up) got down last
week to sellers £32—a fall of £l3 lOs. since lasi March.
Bank of N.S. Wales (£2O paid up), when last heard of
were being offered at £27, buyers, £26 ss. Y« Hi ■ N.S.
Wales still pays 15 per ce it. dividends, and its s lares,
only three months ago, were wanted, and badly wanted
100, at £6O. If nothing happens to the div d nd the
buyer at present prices gets a little over 11 per cent, for
his money, but either the buyer lias no money' or els- Hie
bottom has fallen out of his faith and he no longer believes
in anything.
# # #
The N.S.W. banlc-“frauds ” (i.c., such of them
as can plead with any pretence of reason that they were
comparatively weak and innocent and were deceived by
the scoundrelly other fellow) will soon, The Bullktin pre-
dicts, all lie out of gaol.
* * *
The Bank of North Queensland was successfully
reconstructed and re-opened for business last week.
There was never any reason—except blind panic—why it
. should have closed. It could hgve called up enough
capital to pay off its depositors to the last man—there
was only a hatful of them, anyhow, and could have
afforded to insult its biggest current account customer—
who wasn’t very big in any case—with impunity. It had
an immense cash reserve, very few notes in circulation,
and very few troubles of any kind. But when the Q.N.
Bank went down with such an oppressive (hud the
general feeling up North was that the end of the world
had arrived, and the directors of the Townsville institu-
tion—like those of the Ballarat Banking Co. earlier in the
panic—let go everything and went with ashes on their
heads to conceal themselves in a cave.
« » *
The Ballarat Banking Co. —a solid little in-
stitution, which is the special pride and joy of the Garden
City—pays a 5J per cent, dividend (absorbing £2337 10s.),
and adds £3OOO to its reserve fund. This little bank has
a paid-up capital of £85,000, an unpaid capital of £115,000,
and a reserve of £44,000. It has no Ensrlish depositors
and no note-issue. It hasn’t any palatial premises; its
freehold offices and all furniture and fittings therein are
only valued at £3650. Nearly half (£20,000) of its reserve
is kept in Government securities. The entire deposits are
£278,000, so, in case of necessity, the Ballarat Banke r
Co. could pay them off almost entirely out of capital.
Also, the cash on hand equals 34 per cent, of the liabilities
—a remarkably good record.
• * *
Melbourne trams, which for many weeks re-
mained stationary at about 9'-, have taken another
plunge, and are now quoted at 82. If the call comes the
eight will probably vanish and only' the twopence will
remain. The call in question has long been suspended
over tlie he ids of the shareholders by a single hair, and
the hair is looking pretty thin these times.
*’ * *
At the annual meeting of Metropolitan Gas Co.
(Melh.) last week, the chairman announced that the divi-
dend of 14 per cent, had been partly obiained by reducing
wages and staff to the tune of £lO,OOO per annum. It
was stated at the same time that there are now 12,000 un-
occupied houses in the city and suburbs of Melb.
* * *
The country customers of one of the unregener-
ated Southern banks, are being screwed up all round
good, had and indifferent accounts alike. In the bankers’
handicap, the banks which have been “ born again ” are,
compared with the unregenerated ones, as Cremorne
would he in the Melh. Cup at live stone.
# # *
Manager Warren, of Broken Hill Block 10, in
an interview in Adelaide gave the first official intimation
of the contemplated general reduction of wages at the
Broken Hill mines. Meanwhile, pars, in the Adelaide
papers describe a model of the Block 10 mine of solid
silver, weighing over 2000 z., in which poppet-heads,
tunnels, tanks, engine-houses, ore-floor, and saw-mills,
with all details in the way of saws and machinery, have
been faithfully reproduced, mad 1 to the order of the
Block 10 co. for presentation to their manager—Mr. John
Warren. Two items of news which somehow present a
contrast.
• • •
The Associated mine-owners of Broken Hill,
being now “in an assured position,” mean to cut wages
to £2 10s. a week.
# * #
When silver collapsed, the British Broken Hill
directors reduced hands from 500 (approximately) to 68,
the employment of the latter number beimr requisite to
comply with the labour conditions of the leases. Appli-
cation was immediately made for a suspension of the
labour conditions of the gold leases which cover the pro-
perty in addition to the ordinary mineral licenses, and
when that had been granted another 13 men were gleefully
sacked.
• • #
The employes of the Broken Hill mines now
know definitely that their wages are to be reduced, and
their hours increased. The Proprietary Co. magnates
wished Lane to set the ball rolling on Block 11. Lane
declined, saying that he had to take all the abuse over
the strike business, and it was time someone else had a
turn.
• « «
Broken Hill is profoundly disturbed over the
rumoured wholesale removal of smelters to the S. A. sea-
board, and the threatened agitation for a ss. per ton
export duty on ore is met by a counterblast from S.A. of
a retaliatory increase of railway freights. The S.A.
freights to Broken Hill are already' a fearful and wonder-
ful study. For bullion, from Broken Hill to Port Ade-
laide (333 miles), £2 4s. per ton, is charged ; to Port Pirie
(253 miles); £1 15s. 6d. per ton, while ore is carried for
£1 Is. lOd and 18s. 2d. per ton respectively. Notwith-
standing that 10 out of 11 trucks which carry ore down
have to return empty, the freights for coke are: Port
Adelaide to Broken Hill, £2 os. 7d.; from Port Pirie, £1
15s. Id., or nearly twice as much as the downward charge
on ore. Timber and other mine-requisites are charged
proportionately.
* * #
That fattest of fat corporations, the A. A.
Company, announces that its profits for the year have
been reduced by £30,000.
Thk Bulletin hears that Mr. Henry Gorman,
auctioneer, of Sydney, adjudged bankrupt some time ago,
but allowed his furniture by resolution of bis creditors,
has since sold the furniture and with the proceeds and
portion of current income paid his unsecured creditors in
full.
• « •
The N.S.W. Sapphire Syndicate is being incu-
bated. capital 1800, of which vendor takes a good slice.
“For the protection of the discoverer of this magnificent
deposit of precious stones, the locality will not he divulged
until the whole of lire ground required I)3’ the syndicate
has been secured.” Streeter, on the Australian sapphire,
is quoted. If” has often—alas!—been quoted on the
N.S.W. emera.J.
* * *
In the only humorous sentence in the Broken
Hill half-yearly report the directors express regret that
the sulphide problem is still unsolved. The solution of
the sulphide problem with silver at 2s. 9d. is a mighty big
contract.
* * *
It transpires that the unusually big 1 cake from
Baker’s Creek mine was largely made up by cleaning the
copperplates from the 40-head battery after a six months'
run, and to the absorption of gold by these clean plates
the falling in the succeeding yield is accountable.
• # w
Mills United is one of the few great and regular
output mines of Australia. Last month, 1700 tons for
17370 z.; div., 3d.
# * *
Croker’s Mint is regarded by many hydraulic
m-'i as one of th ■ best sluicing shows on the Shoalhaven.
A> it commanded no gravitation waiter-scheme, and the
wash was considered good enough for lifting water, a big
Worthington pump was purchased a few days hack. The
pump was being lowered into ihe shaft when the tackle
broke and the pump went to (lie bottom, probably ruining
shaft as wed as pump. There can he no possible excuse
for such an occurrence.
* * #
As usual in mining, the N.S.W. Government
is doing the right thing the wrong way. Hundreds of
men without a sov. in their pockets are being despatched
haphazard to Shoalhaven and other alluvial drift mines
provided with picks, shovels, and tin dishes. This is the
maddest of wild eat schemes, and will fail miserably,
because the men are not property equipped. Instead of
calling to their assistance a man who lias been identified
with such failures as the Oban tin and gem mine, the Ml.
Galena, the D epwater tramway, and the Australian
Banking Co., the Government should have appointed an
executive commission of practical mine managers—men
who between them know all the auriferous country in N.S.
Wales. With time and money, work might he found for
10,000 men, and if their work was well-conducted, the
£20,000 the scheme must necessarily involve would be
repaid Government out of the men’s earning-. As it
is, the business will end in disaster, and gold-mining in
N.S.W. will, of course, have to bear the curse of the
failure.
# # #
The N.S.W. Mining Bank is liquidating.
What has become of the mines it controlled; United
Bluey, where thousands were spent in machinery to test
one small, ill-defined half-oz. reef; Chandler’s Creek,
Dalmorton, where £l5OO was spent in further proving one
claim a duffer, and so on ? Like its mines, the Banktnade
many calls, but never a dividend.
# • «
A shareholder complains of the fees paid to the
directors of the Ml. Allen gold-mine, and many other
things connected therewith. A gold-mine should pay its
directors and the Mt. Allen mine is a good one, hut in a
waterless country ; last crushing, 260 bzs. from 170 tons ;
lode big, and consists of red oxide; gold fine, hut free ;
battery 10 heads, with 10 others going up; crushing
ceased for want of water.
# • •
Has N.S.W. Solicitor-General O’Connor yet de-
manded from the Official Assignee in the ca-e of building
society manager Fogarty, a report on the remarkable dis-
closures made during the examination of Mr. Fogarty’s
brother-in-law in the Bankruptcy Court the other day?
These matters, affecting as they' do the characters of lead
ing citizens and the management of the Government
Printing Office, loudly call for the closest and most inex-
orable official examination.
* *
The persistent newspaper-mining references to
the Great Mercury and Vermont Co.’s (M.L.) makes one
tired. Every new fin'd is exaggerated, while every poor
feature is left religiously' alone. Each mine has made
many calls and never yet paid a div. One has liquidated,
and tlie other has forfeited thousands of contributing
shares. The ore is low-grade, and the gold extremely
fine and costly' to extract. A yield of 14oz. from two tons
from the Vermont tunnel over a month ago saved it from
death, hut it the reef is sft. wide why have they not
crushed 200 tons? It should also be known that this reef
has been struck in the Kapai ground, and that in the con-
ditions of amalgamation the Vermont Co. has to furnish
all the machinery. Wanted - move solid work and less
puff.
* # *
The trial of Matthew Davies and Millidge will
be watched with eager attention. People are especially
curious to see whether the full strength of the connection
between the Mercantile Bank and the Davies companies
is to hq brought out in evidence, whether Gyles Turner
will maintain his former opinion regarding the “technical
correctness” of the last Mercantile balance-sheet-, and
whether William Simpson will this time be fully examined
and cross-examined ?
» # *
The lawyer of Matthew Larkin (who is to
be tried on another charge of fraud) actually at-
tempted, the other day, to have the Aon publisher
attached, on the ground that he had printed a paragraph,
stating that Larkin had now a nice easy' hillet as librarian
in P.’ntridge prison - and that this statement was ealeu
lated to prejudice his trial !
'* * #
The rent of ordinary business premises in Sydney
has fallen 20 to 25 per cent, since the depression set in,
A well advertised lady poisoner, now in
an English gaol for life, will shortly add to the
population.
The N.S.W. yield of raw sugar this year
will be worth about .£750,000, £400,000 of which
will be distributed amongst the farmers for cane.
‘ ‘ ‘ Parkes and Prosperity ’ v. ‘ Dibbs and
Di saster.’ Parkes in office means prosperity—
for Parkes ; Dibbs in office means prosperity—for
Dibbs.”—Ex.
In the appropriately-named Robb (Q.)
railway-arbitration, Griffith got £2778 fees; his
Ministerial colleague, Byrnes, £2969; Drake
£1963; Shand, £1479.
“Ex-Freetrader, ex-Republicau, and ex-
Democrat, the best service Dibbs can render his
country is to turn yet another somersault and
become (politically) extinct.” —Ex.
As The Bulletin predicted (and as the
police expected when pistols were officially put
into their hands), the Sydney burglars are now
arming themselves with revolvers—and using
them.
The work of “settling” the unemployed
goes on down South. Charles Currie died in
Melb. Hospital last week from the effects of priva-
tion and exposure suffered at the Kardella Village
Settlement.


m
wWV*
Go to TT-rt.t..
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (id.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN Se CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STKEET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
nwny
s
/SiBADE MASiiJi
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
(-•I'AKAXTKKD SPLKXDID CONDITION’.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the Work’.
Purveyors to Vhicayo Exhibition,
Ealchin, Johnston Sc Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Th* Bulletin's » ■Mkssi’kf} iV&rd
iJompeiilion—Xo. "S’,
Any purchaser of Tins Bulletin who can correctly
supply the vyord missing from the paragraph on the sub-
joined coupon—which coupon is to be cut out and for-
warded to The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in response to this
advertisement. Should there be more than one successful
competitor, the total* amount received will be diVided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons received to August 5, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope in the
custody of the manager of the Bank of New Zealand,
Sydney, and the contents are known only to the manager
of this paper.
ord is not named . the money will be added to
that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by t’osl-offico
°j , er . °. r Bt amps ; when the latter are sent, a penny to lie
added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
The Bulletin's” Missin; / Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 5.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward
coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to
Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney, in time to be
received by Saturday, sth August, 1893.
“ Women are employed at railway switches and
crossings in Italy because they do not get intoxi-
cated.” This, cut from a Sydney paper, is trium-
phantly hurled at the world in general as a
fact. But it’s a lie. Women are so employed in
Italy because they are cheaper than men. Why
are men employed at Australian railway switches,
pray ? Because the lines have not vet been collared
by Fat Man, and it isn’t policy "for the State to
employ Chinamen or females.
Name ,
Address.
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received— no deduction whatever being
made. Should there be more than one successful
competitor, the total amount received will be
divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies ivill be admitted except contained on
this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure
absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise conduct
the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of
the paper.
Personal Items.
The Davies trial will bo the biggest since
the Eureka*
Salmon Wilson is said to be owner of St.
Stephen’s Review.
David Syme looks ten years older than he
did six months ago.
Jenkin Coles, Speaker of S.A. Parliament,
is a native of Sydney.
Frank Myers (“Telemachus ”) has turned
bushman again down Werribee way.
N.S.W. Railway Commissioner Eddy’s
term of engagement has nearly expired.
Plaintively said Professor Marshall Hall
the other day : “ The ideal in man never gets fair
play.”
One of the most successful of Westralian
mercantile houses is that of Hogg, Bacon, &
Fryer.
Witnesses must beware of saying anything
calculated to bias the minds of the jury against
Davies and Millidge.
Mr. H. C. L. Anderson, the newly-ap-
pointed chief of Sydney Public Library, is the
wearer of three University gold medals.
T. P. M‘lnerney, LL.D., was elected
Warden of Melbourne University Senate as a
means of putting the cloture on his garrulity.
Can Pastor Fitchett have dropped the
church for good ? In the City Newspaper Co.’s
share-list his occupation appears as “ Editor.”
The absurd black - and - gold millinery
assumed by N.S.W. Equity Judge Owen on the
first day of term cost him something like <£2oo.
Cardinal Moran is expected to bring with
him to Sydney a Chinese priest. The experiment
was made in Archbishop Folding’s day, but with-
out success.
Shiels, when Premier of Victoria and
Minister of Railways, used to get many of his
notions for railway reform from a guard on the St.
Kilda train.
The latest London Independent has a
portrait and biography of Pastor Jefferis, erst of
Sydney, who seems to have grown thinner. Re-
construction ?
Traffic-manager Syder, of the Vic. rail-
ways, was formerly a weighing porter in the
Melb. goods-shed. Commissioner Kibble began
in ’62 as a messenger.
Professor Martin H. Irving, of Melb.
Public Service Board, is a son of Carlyle’s friend,
Edward Irving, who, after marrying Carlyle’s
best girl, founded the Irvingites.
The Mayor of Adelaide publicly said, last
week, that if Gov. Kintore left South Australia
at present, the Zoological Society would regard
his departure as a national calamity.
Lord Sudeley, it is cabled, has called a
meeting of his creditors. Liabilities, <£800,000;
assets, .£43,000 a year. Five percent, on <£Boo,ooo
is <£40,000. Sudeley is in a tight place.
What became of H. M. Stanley’s threatened
libel action against Bartellot’s relations? Two
years have passed since the exploiter announced
he was going to “ vindicate his character.”
Leon and Theodore Fink, who appear for
“ Matthew,” are related by marriage. Leon
allied himself to a Fink—or perhaps it was that
Fink entered the den of Leons in search of a wife.
Little funniment by Purves, Q.C. ; “ That
is near a mountain called after my learned friend,
Mt. Blowhard.” Unfortunately “the learned
friend ” (Duffy) did not recollect Mt. Bore-Bore.
The senior partner in a certain Melbourne
library is the real censor of Victorian morals. He
barred “As in a Looking Glass” from the
library, yet sold “The Kreutzer Sonata” in the
shop.
Bertrand, the N.S.W. murderer, has now
served much over 20 years in prison. But in
Westralia one O’Donnell, who now asks for
liberation, has served 27 years for the murder of
Forrester.
A few years ago, the clerk of a certain
Melbourne Court had a mild tussle with the
Judge, in wig and gown, to prevent his Honor
going on the bench. On this occasion, the clerk
overruled the Court.
Alfred de Lissa, the brainy Sydney
attorney, has converted himself into a barrister.
By the way, Mr. de Lissa has drafted the new
N.S.W. banking-bill for the Government for a fee
of something like <£7oo.
When Q. Attorney-General Byrnes was
a humble milk-boy up North he was often chaffed
for being a one-handed milker. Judging by the
Robb case, “Tommy” has since learned the art
of milking with both hands.
Mr. Frederic Harrison asserts that the
recently-elevated Lord Drumlanrig (over whom,
it is cabled, the Queen and Gladstone have
squabbled) is “the only perfectly sane adult that
his family has contained for a long time.”
W. H. Gray, the S.A. millionaire, boasts
that he is worth <£1,500,000, and has never touched
mining scrip or gambled in land values. Gray
works hard on his farm at Reedbeds, near Ade-
laide, and personally collects all his rents.
Douglas Sladen, who has taken Australian
poetry under his wing, attributes Dickens’popular
poem, “ The Children,” to Zachariah Sutcliffe, of
South Melbourne, an author who used to sell his
own doggerel from door to door at twopence a
sheet.
Ex-M.L.A. Glassey, the (Q.) Democrat, is
hard-up and suffering from lung affection. The
doctors order him abroad as if he were a million-
aire. Glassey fathered the political phase of the
Q. Labour-movement, and it shouldn’t be for-
gotten.
“ Dick” Ireland, Q.C., when at his zenith,
was once briefed to appear in a case at Auckland
(M.L.), for which he got as fee £l2OO. All he did
was to go to Auckland, advise a man to plead
guilty to a charge of “ cattle-duffing,” and return
by next boat.
Ex-Gov. Carington still figures in the State
finances of Britain as the baron with the greatest
number of relatives salarised by the country. The
Hastings crowd go in, of course, in the calcula-
tion. Carington’s own salary as Chamberlain is
.£2OOO a year, but half-a-dozen, all with salaries,
help him to do the work.
R. H. Francis, Chairman of Victorian
Railway Commissioners, has twice been “ indis-
posed” for examination in the case of Speight v.
Syme. Cold ham asked him, “How much is four
times 33?” Not having a piece of chalk handy,
he rashly attempted the solution by mental arith-
metic : “ 120.” The court “roared.”
“Why, man, who on earth is your tailor V’
was Col. Fox’s remark to a Maoriland volunteer
who, as he stood in the ranks, looked as if his
uniform had been simply “flung” on. A laugh
ran along the ranks, in which the captain of the
company did not join. Next day, the captain
resigned. He was the “ regimental tailor.”
Alfred Deakin in an article in the dead
Australasian Critic, once called “Ivan” Fair-
field, of the Argus, “criticaster, new Munchausen,
erratic Daniel, disguised troubadour, swearer at
large, advocatus diaholi , rattling propagandist,
untrustworthy and incompetent, as incoherent
as unfair, pelican in the wilderness.” Alfred
always had a pretty turn for verbal mud.
Frank Smith, ex-M.L.A. (N.S.W.),
whose case was under discussion last week and
whose sentence will be considered when two years
of his term are up, will emerge a skilled musician.
He was a good performer on several instruments
before his conviction and since then he has had
the prison harmonium to practise on and plenty
of time to study musical treatises.
Rev. J. W. Inglis, who died at Parramatta
the other day, was a very clever man, and over-
A REASONABLE EXPLANATION.
“Editor AROUS,— Sir, I contend that the trustees of the said
cemetery have no alternative but to allow sheep to eat the rank grass
growing there, as it is impossible to mow it, and it would be very
dangerous to burn it.....As to the sheep eating or destroying
flowers on unfenced graves, I beg to state that it is not correct, as
notice is given the trustees when sheep are likely to be put in, and the
friends of the deceased have the chance of protecting the graves,— I
am, &c., A 26 YEARS' RESIDENT."
came terrible bodily affliction. The historic
plagiarism alleged against him was of a sermon
called “ Mutual Help,” preached by an American,
Dr. Hutchinson. The prosecutrix was the wife of
a brother Presbyterian clergyman—she had short-
handed the discourse. Poor Inglis apologised,
with tears, before the Melb. Presbytery.
A well-known sporting barrister, of Mel-
bourne, asked a Victorian Judge when a certain
case would come on. “Next Friday,” answered
the Bench. “Will you consider, your Honor,”
said the barrister, “that Friday next is Good
Friday?” “ I don’t care,” replied the Judge, “the
better the day, the better the deed !” “ That may
be so,” retorted the Bar, “but if you sit on that
day, you will be the first Judge who did business
on that day since Pontius Pilate !”
According to the London correspondent of
an Adelaide daily, the late Duke of Clarence
committed suicide. He was recovering from the
illness which had kept him in bed, when, in a fit
of depression, he swallowed a quantity of carbolic
disinfectant. All the servants who knew of the
occurrence were pledged to silence. At the
bottom of the trouble is said to have been the
death of the Gaiety girl with whom the Duke’s
name had been so much associated.
The descent of a Davies is more Jewish
than Welsh, as a rule. Leaving Sir Matthew out
of the question, it is sufficiently apparent that the
Melbourne land-booni was run by Scotchmen and
Jews. Now the famous bank-holiday legislation
was the work of three Irishmen—Madden, Patter-
son and O’Logblen. Paddy became pre-eminent
as a “restorer of confidence,” on a truly deplor-
able system, after the boom. The Englishman
has done most of the aside shouting for prosecu'
tions.
Our late visiter, Brigand Stanley, is now
completely obscured in England by Mr. Selous,
the unobtrusive African explorer and huntsman.
Selous prides himself on having penetrated Dark-
est Africa without sacrificing the life of a single
nigger. Stanley, annoyed at the popularity of his
rival as a lecturer, lately accused Selous of
killing off the big game in Africa. H.M. feels
secure in the consciousness of exterminating un-
important savages. He did not kill the elephants,
but he got the ivory.
When John Dillon was down in Maori*
land after funds to relieve evicted tenants, he
stopped one night at a Tuapeka pub. While the
patriot slept, after a hard night’s talking, one
Duffy annexed his trousers and substituted for
them a pair of slops of similar pattern, bought a't
the adjoining store. The pants were put up tb
auction in the bar-parlour, and, after animated
bidding, were knocked down to anothet Irishman
for <£ls, which was handed to Dillon next day as
a contribution to the CaUse.
George Australia’s premier rowing-
coach, Sergeant-at-Atms in the Vic. Legislative
Assembly at .£450 a year, owes everything to
athletics. Originally apprenticed to a Geelong
saddler, his athletic powers presently made it
worth his while to come to Melbourne. He got
into the Civil Service, where his phonography
eventually made him shorthand-iivriter to Premier
Gillies. From the Premier’s department he passed
to that of Crown Law, whence, in less than two
years, he emerges to be Sergeant-at-Arms and
sport his shapely leg in silken hose.
The poet Fitz Gi-
bbon, of Melbourne, thinks
of publishing ah autobio-
graphy.
Professors tucker
apd Morris, of Melb.
University, both write
leaders for the Argus.
Morris’ may be recognised
by the short, choppy
sentences, while Tucker
is always quoting Mat-
thew Arnold, and call-
ing him “ the inevitable
Matt.”
Princess May, by her
marriage with George of
York, has at one bound
ascended from seventy-
second to second place in
the order of succession to
the British throne. The
Empress Frederick, of
Germany, stands nine-
teenth, and the present
German Emperor is
twentieth.
“When I was a
young man,” says Dr.
Neild, “tar-water was
the universal panacea for
aches and pains, but was
presently superseded by
brandy and salt. Now-
adays, there seems a
general tendency to omit
the salt.”
Victorian Astrono-
mer Ellery has in his
room at the Observatory
a big photograph of the
moon, popularly supposed
to be the finest in exist-
ence. A Riverina squat-
ter one day stared hard
at this picture of the
rugged, cold-looking
planet, and, being told
nothing lived there, re-
marked that it didn’t
matter much, for it
looked like “ domned
poor sheep-country,”
The late Professor
Hearn got the biggest
fee for writing a leader
ever paid in Australia:
the Argus paid him <£so
for a special leader in
connection with the
downfall of the M‘Cul-
loch Ministry.
Melbourne Evening Standard is far
behind the times in journalistic enterprise. The
imprisonment of “Jimmy ” Thomson, its manager,
was recorded in as hard a matter-of-fact fashion as
a potato-market quotation. An American paper
would have had inch-long letters heading the
columns of descriptive booming. “ Does it on his
head!” “Horrors of Hominy!’ “Stone walls
and iron bars !” “The Standard’s manager in
Melbourne Gaol.” It was the chance of the cen-
tury and they let it pass idly by.
Mr. Buxton, a young English brewer,
having been converted to teetotalism, has just
forfeited his (inherited) brewery-shares, valued at
a million sterling, rather than continue to make
profit out of the accursed thing. This young man,
whose brewery turns out such excellent tipple
that it may still be in full blast on the eve of
Judgment Day, is apparently egotist enough to
think that the influence of his great act of self-
abnegation is calculated to do more for the cause
of lemonade than could be done by the interest on
a million at three per cent.—say, <£30,000 a year
or £lOO per working-day. If he believes this,
then he has very few brains—like most of the
fanatical teetotallers.
It is quite settled, according to the Yankee
papers, that the Earl of Rosebery (the only visit-
ing English grandee, by the ‘way, who ever
impressed his Australian hosts with his ability)
is before many months to marry Princess Maud
Charlotte Marie Victoria, the favourite daughter
of the Prince of Wales, and 24 years old. “ The
earl is 46, but his smooth, clean-shaven face and
youthful air make him seem but 33 or so. He
was married in 1878 to Hannah, only child of
Baron Meyer de Rothschild, and got with her
enormous wealth. The wife, of course, became a
nonentity, her redeeming traits being unfailing
good nature and a passionate desire to please help
husband. Upon her death, on November 19,
1890, it was declared that Rosebery’s indifference
killed her. The Princess Maud, it seems, ts
warmly attached to the earl. They first met
socially three years ago, but it is only eight or
nine months since a genuine attachment atosp
between them. The royal maid is fond of social
and scientific studies, and the affinity of the pair
appears to be genuine and thorough. The wed-
ding may not take place until September. The
earl will become a ,duke and the pair will make
London their home.”
The New Australia Movement.
The sails of the Royal Tar have at last been
loosed to the breeze that is bearing away from us
the pioneer settlers of a new country, colonised
under new conditions. “The world will be
changed if we succeed, and we shall succeed !
We cannot help succeeding!” These are the
words of the leader of this little band of emi-
grants, and who can read them without silently
acknowledging the resistless power and resolution
they convey. Under such a captain how can
defeat be sustained ? Casting behind them the
vices and follies of civilisation, they are deter-
mined to tread the virgin soil of a new land, un-
fettered by the chains that have bound them
down so long, and
O'er the glad waters of the dark blue sea,
Their thoughts as boundless, and their souls as free,
they are speeding onwards to the goal of their
hopes. Every care has been taken in the selection
of candidates; an experienced surgeon accom-
panies, the medicine chest is complete, and last,
but by no means least, a consignment of “Mar-
shalls Tonic Nervine,” the original and favourite
Australian antidote for all forms of nervous dis-
orders, has been shipped. The vigorous nervous
and muscular strength resulting from the use of
this superlative and unapproachable tonic must
assure success.
With the coming of spring the seaside and
mountain hotels advertise. Each and every one
is better than all the rest —so the keepers thereof
say. But the weary and overworked man of busi-
ness, or country families, can really depend upon
being well looked after at the Clarendon Hotel,
Manly. Rates are low and the accommodation
good.
Golemane& Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
New photographic studios have been
opened by the Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
at Kidman s Buildings, corner of George and
Market-streets, Sydney, where a number of fine
portraits are on view. These include one each,
life-size, of Cardinal Moran and Edward Terry.
By the aid of a new machine, the company claims
to be able to produce 2500 portraits from one
negative in 24 hours.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Once again attention is drawn to the con-
ditions of the Mutual Freehold Property Distribu-
tion. The intention was to have the drawing on
the 31st July, but from a combination of circum-
stances the company managing the distribution
has decided to postpone such drawing until
November 7th, Melbourne Cup day. Prizes are
offered amounting to .£145,000, and shares are ill
each. Applications may be sent in to the
Manager, care of R. Hope Atkinson, 25 Imperial
Arcade, or to local agents.
Exhausted and drowsy feelings indicate an im-
pure and sluggish condition of the blood, which
may be remedied by the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla-
It is the most powerful and economical blood-
purifier known.
ToThk Deaf.— A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 3!) Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
7Am
(Portrait Photographers)
Hoyal Arcade, Sydney.
JX,
Messrs. Charlemont specially commend their
PI/AT IN OT VPE PORTRA ITS
on account of their being so PERFECTLY
PERMANENT.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad.,
£8 EACH £8
Dailey Estate, Manly Beach.
Allotments, £8 Each.
10/- Deposit. 5 - Monthly. No Interest.
FREE DEEDS (free of all costs) to Purchasers who pay
up in One Year from clay of sale.
Messrs. STEPHEN & ICKERSON, Solicitors,
86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
irsr Five psr cent. DISCOUNT for CASH.
A Good Spec, for Surplus Savings.
Deeds can he made out in names of Wife or Children.
Postage Stamps taken for Deposits and Instalments. No
forfeiture if buyers are unable to keep up payments
through sickness or want of employment.
Plans from E. C. V. RROICIIITON, 301 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Free Plans sent to any address.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MILLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES & BUGGIES’
ilham Fleming,
22 & 24 Clarexck Stebkt,
tiVOXEV.
i
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various
strata.. - WILLIAM ‘
FLEMING, 22 and 21
Clarence St., Sydney.
i
POLITICAL
POINTS
National Asslfalians !
S.A. deficit for year ending June' JO,
J179,43110'5. . iU
Election query for Dibbs ; Do yob loally
lielieve in Qne-mah-one-vote?
Ministers seem’ ttf have a’s many
“ nephews ” as a holjf Cardinal.
Income-tax principle: Iboui 1 huh '-lib
hath most, most shall be taken.
“North Queensland is fast becoming a
miniature Chinese Empire. Ex.
Does B. R. Wise support payment of
members? By this sign shall we know him.
It is probable enough that M‘llwraith’s
Income-tax will be killed in the second act.
Parkes, senior, is the only survivor of the
first band of N.S.W. Protectionist politicians.
M‘llwraith once promised the Queensland
workers “ a big loaf.” They are now getting it.
Tasmania has at present the largest deficit,
in proportion to her revenue, of any Australian
state. ... .
Awe fell upon the Vic. Legislative Assem-
bly last week— Punch MTvinley ' opened his
mouth, and spake.
Should MTlvvraith get half a chance,
triennial Parliaments and payment of members
are doomed in Queensland.
Parkes says that Federation must come,
and that he is the only man who can bring it.
Wrong. He can’t even prevent it.
The Q. Labour-party, 15 strong, and “ the
Opposition” of seven have coalesced. IHE Bulle-
tin congratulates “ the Opposition.
Dibbs : “The province is too poor to pay
its members of Parliament.” The province is so
poor that it cannot afford to do otherwise.
Tasmanian Budget shows a deficit of
<£312,019. New taxation proposals include a
land-tax, probate duties and an income-tax.
Nothing has been said lately about the
intention of Service, Deakin and Co. to get James
Mi rams whitewashed by the Vic. Parliament.
“To abolish payment of members would
raise in another form the old property qualifica-
tion,” remarks F. A. Wright, M.P. Paste this up.
There is now a distinct line of cleavage
between the Sydney Sunday papers. Truth sup-
ports and the Sunday Times opposes payment ot
members.
Should the Victorian Labour - party
support Patterson’s Income-tax they destroy all
chances of a Land-tax and of their return to
Parliament.
Griffith, the baby of S.A. Assembly, has
sat in Parliament only two months, during which
time he has unwittingly submitted two no-eontid-
ence motions.
Dibbs hcis heaps of letters from all kinds
of people, including freetraders, approving of his
proposal to abolish payment to members. 1 tmeo
Danaos, &c.
There are two expert stenographers in the
0. Labour-party. Their pencils will be of account
to the outside world when Fat Man shuts down
on Hansard.
The Patterson Ministry will probably
carry Income-tax in the Assembly. The time is
inopportune for a general election, say the limpets
and Idgrollers.
Abolish payment of members—and sell
the State railways. That is what it all means.
The big syndicate is at work alongside every
printing machine.
Rumoured that during recess ten new
appointments are to be made to the N.S.W. Coun-
cil. And never a Democrat among them, predicts
The Bulletin.
Three of the biggest political wrecks in
Queensland are Billy Paul, his pal Billy Little,
and “ Ten-bob-a-week ” Unmack. The nickname
shattered the ex-P.M.G.
Thomas MHlwraith has committed suicide
in Sydney. Alas ! it was the wrong Thomas. Also
Bryan O’Loghltn has been sentenced to death.
But it was the wrong Bryan.
The Brisbane Courier borrowed Hansard
formes from the Govt, printing-office to print its
seven columns of Budget matter. Kindly lent for
the occasion by Mr, Tozer again !
N.S.W. Treasurer See denies that he is a
member of the Steamship Owners Association.
You see, he is only a director of a steamship co.
which belongs to the Association.
The rejection by the House of Lords of
London County Council’s Betterment Bill is fortu-
nate for Gladstone, in whose mouth it places a
tattle-cry for the English Radicals.
At the Victorian Convention, held in Mel-
bourne in 1857, Wilson Gray maintained that
Democratic Government without payment of
members would be found a nullity.
The N.S.W. hangman, whose salary is
,£156, lias not been retrenched in accordance with
the Civil Service scheme. Why? He is as much
a Civil servant as is an Under-Secretary.
Queensland Labour organ : “ With the
exception of some half-dozen men of ability—the
MTlwraithians are mere political cyphers.” Yes,
but even cyphers count —in the right place.
It is interesting to observe the Australian
Star trying to hunt with its Ministerial manipu-
lators on the subject of payment of members, and
at the same time pull with the Democratic party.
The refusal of the Argus to support a tax
on land-values has greatly affected it in popular
estimation. Unless the Argos will give up
trying to sell tuppeny politics for a penny hard
times are in store for it.
The N.S. W. Ministerial organ howls for
the retirement of Chief of Police Posbery and the
appointment of a young and strong man. Now,
who is that young and strong man, and whose
niece has he married ?
Payment of members helps the Common
People to' share in governing. And it is for us, as
Democrats, to see that it is the people who govern,
even if, on every day of the week, they again vote
fof Barabbas and re-crucify Christ.
According to a contemporary the R.Cb
authorities of Maori land intend to close all their
schools, ini so far as general education is concerned,
which will mean art extra expenditure to the
Government of £250,000 per ailnum.
The Yic. Treasurer, Carter, supported the
Govt.’s income-tax proposals by gushing about
the dear, old mother country that has an income-
tax.” Some Jingoes would abolish quarantine
beoause they have smallpox at ’Ome.
The most recent utterances of B. B. Nicoll,
president of the N.S.W. branch of the A.N.A.,
show him to be a trimmer, who sits on a fence, and
who means to get down into the paddock where
the Ass is grazing as soon as it gets dark enough.
The Central Q. Separationists must be
wooden-headed people if they cannot see through
Archer, M.L. A. Both the Northern and Central
Separation movements have now been exploited
to death by men of the Cowley, Philp, and Archer
type.
Grainger, once
ultra-democratic, has
gone over to the
N ational Ass ap-
parently because of
the failure of Pre-
mier Kingston, to
keep an alleged pro-
mise to make him
Treasurer.
N.S.W.- Opposi-
tion leader Reid is
again on the fence.
Does he support, or
does he oppose, pay-
ment of members ?
Payment is not, as
he argues, an “ ex-
pedient,” but a bed-
rock principle. It be-
longs to the theory of
a free and open Par-
liament, justas“ Give
us this day our daily
bread ” belongs to the
Lord’s Prayer.”
Premier Dibbs
(boileddown): ‘‘l met
Jimmy Tyson re-
cently. Said I ; 4 I’m
the poorest and you’re
the richest man in
N. S. Wales let’s
federate.’ . . That
illustrates the present
Australian Federal
position; all the
other provinces want
to federate with my
province because
N.S.W. is the rich-
est.” That is the
sort of thing by which
Dibbs seeks to pro-
mote Australian
Feedration ! It is as
if two people engaged
to marry began to
haggle in public
about their respective
bank-accounts.
Brooker, M.P. (S.A.), assisted by the
Government and the Labour-members, carried his
motion in S. A. Assembly to abolish the distinctive
o-arb worn by Destitute Asylum inmates—the
badge of charity. Downer, the head of the Ass,
opposed.
The English Conservatives complain that
it is impossible to command the attendance of
members of their party in the House of Commons,
and talk of payment of members as a possible
balance to the superior attractiveness of society
functions.
Parkes’ latest protege (and-—er bene-
factor) the ingenuous young man who follows him
round the country and hopes to get into active
politics under his wing, has, as the first open and
visible sign of his intending candidature, debuted
as a newspaper-letter writer.
Sir John Gorsb, Conservative member for
Cambridge University, has joined ‘'the Australian
partv ”in the House of Commons. What hideous
gammon is all this ! We shall hear next week
that Labouchere and the G.O.M. have joined the
“ party ” as honorary members.
On the Protectionist side of N.S.W. Par-
liament there are but two authors among the
members who can be classed as probable Ministers.
There is but one in the present Cabinet. On the
Freetrade side there will be at least six authors in
any Ministry likely to be formed.
Miss Shaw in the Times: “Australian
plutocracy has no ideal and rallies no public cry,
and this is the most dangerous feature of the
future outlook.” Men of Australia, the rallying
cry of local plutocracy just now is “Abolish Pay-
ment to Members and sell the State railways.
Naturally, nearly every lawyer opposes pay-
ment of members. The nominally-honorary
system embastions the monopoly of the lawyer,
who can always get a living by belonging to L ar-
-1 lament. A seat in Parliament enables a lawyer
to advertise himself in the papers, to use backdoor
influence in the public departments, to personally
“ barrack ” for his clients or get other members
to “ barrack ” for them in public without commit-
ting contempt of Court. Altogether, as a lawyer
told The Bulletin six weeks ago, a seat is worth
every penny of JloOO a year to an attorney with a
country connection.
J. Inglis, M.L.A., hits a nail which some
bigger man should drive home when he says that
children should not be taught to beg money for
prizes and school treats. They should not be
taught to beg at all—even for money to pay for
lithographing an address to the Ministerial head
of the N.S.W. Education Department.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. has secured
the freight of 40,000 tons of Queensland sugar
through competition with the A.U.S.N. 00,
Between the two co.’s there is now uncompromis-
ing war. This sugar-contract was the original
cause of the present maritime strike, and black-
labour was responsible for the sugar. Ergo.
Several of Premier Dibbs’ Ministerial col-
leagues state that they do not endorse his anti-
payment-to-members’ policy and wish the Question
left an open one. Too late! Any N.S.W.
Minister who doesn’t want to go down with the
Dibbs ship must jump overboard now. Admiral
Try-on Dibbs has given the fatal order; his ship
will be rammed and sunk.
The most forcible objection to an income-
tax in Victoria is founded upon official corruption.
“Capital” will so shirk the tax, one way and
another, that the paltry amount collected will
increase the British money-lender s alarm. Am
whilst a country is in a financial mess it can
afford to exaggerate its weakness to the party who
holds the national “ paper.”
Several Australian Governments hint at
abolishing payment of members. The Bulletin
would like to see a Ministry abolish payment while
small-debts verdicts were being returned against
members of it—while a Minister hopelessly owed
,£2OO for drinks and lunches at the club, and had
to change his residence because nobody within 10
miles would give him any more tick.
‘•Some hundreds of civil servants, many
of whom have grown grey in the service of the
State, are being ‘marooned to enable tne
Government to stave off insolvency, while the
Political Overdrafters’ Personal Relief Bill, lately
rushed through Parliament, authorises this Idol
(the Q.N. Bank) to hold in its grasp £2,360,000 ot
the people’s money.”—Towers Eagle.
O’Neill, talking absentee-tax in the Vic.
Parliament: “ Samuel Wilson, after almost
buying a title, was enabled by his vast fortune
PATRIOTISM-WITH A COLLECTION.
GOOD ROYALIST DIPES : “I am opposed to a franchise which pays
members £3OO a year, when they should give their services to
the country out of pure patriotism
to secure titled noodles as husbands for his
daughters.” Whereupon Armytage, the gilded
scion of a blown-up squattocracy: “That is very
vulgar.” Nobody ever thinks Mr. Armytage
vulgar—he would make a model shopwalker.
The first Vic, land-grant railway has
miserably collapsed, and is left for the State
to finish. The promoter, however, receives .£9OOO
for work already done, while the Government re-
ceives back 100,000 acres of mallee and £2OOO
worth of material. The line, from Beulah to
Hopetoun, is but 16 miles long, and might well
have been undertaken by the State in the first
instance.
Interesting little item from a Sydney
daily :
Mr. S. E. Lees, M.P., has returned to the St. Mary’s
Council £1 95., the interest on a loan advanced by him tor
three months and recently re-paid. The money is to be
distributed among the deserving poor.
Just think of it! This twenty-nine-shi'lling chari-
table-general-election advt. for "Mr. S. E. Lees
actually telegraphed to Sydney !
It seems to be pretty well taken for
granted that the Sydney newspaper man who
boards at the house of “ A Forced Striker’s Wife.”
at least looked over the shoulder of that lady as
she wrote the anti-labour epistles which have so
well-advertised her nom-de-plume. The anony-
mous letter from the bogus-Conservative workman
is one of the most elfecbive, as it is one of the most
cowardly and often-used weapons in the hands of
the great capitalistic conspiracy against the com-
mon people. Unless the N.S.W. Democracy gets,
and soon, as a rallying centre, a daily paper of its
own, it will be bound in chains for a decade.
N.S.W. Minister Suttor’s defence of hia
all-round reduction in teachers’ salaries merely
holds a light to the unparliamentary character of
his action. He was authorised by Parliament to
take 10 per cent, off salaries over a certain figure,
but maintains he is acting more justly by taking
five per cent, off all salaries. The justice may be
arguable, but the direction of Parliament is nob
arguable.
An old Queenslander and an early admirer
of Chief Justice Griffith, hearing that that un-
stable statesman has taken up the study of modern
socialism, cut out of a Griffithian letter written and
published five years ago the following sentence and
forwarded it to him as a refresher :
By whomsoever such competition as reduces wages
below the point at which European labourers can live in
decency and health is carried on—these people are the
enemies of the public.
Amen!
Fat Man writes to Melb. Aegus on the
subject of Australians in the House of Commons.
He has noted, has Fat Man, some talk of one or
two “ Austral-Irish ” representatives forming a
“ party ” in the House, and the news alarms him.
Unless Australia “insists upon choosing its own
representatives in the old country ” there is a
danger of disloyal persons passing themselves off
as typical Australians, therefore Fat Man would
like action to be taken. This is a matter for
Premier Patterson’s earnest consideration, The
Bulletin thinks. The “ colonies ” cannot pre-
vent two or three persons calling themselves a>
party, but a despatch to the Gladstone Govern-
ment pointing out that no party is genuine unless
it has Grovel stamped on the cork would, no doubt,
assist to tighten them there silken bonds.
HOW DID THEY COME TO DO IT?
Only to think that any man — in the daytime,,
with his eyes open, not being crazy and not want-
ing to commit suicide —should walk straight into
a canal or a river ! Only to think of that, I say !
Yet a good many did it in and around London in
Christmas week, 1891. The dense fog it was, of
course, that made them. People could hardly seo
six feet ahead of their noses ; maybe less at times,,
and in some spots. For you understand the
difference between mere darkness and a fog. In
the dark, no matter how black it is, you can
always see the lights if there are any. But a fog !
A fog is to have your eyes put out; it is blind-
ness. As for shipwrecks and other calamities clue
to fogs—why, there’s no end to them. The
London papers have wondered why somebody
hasn’t invented a way to scatter fogs. Ah, yes*
why?
Here’s a women’s story about a fog, one of those
thick mists that hang over most of us twelve
months in the year. She says that from April to
September, 1889, she was too ill to have any
pleasure or comfort. This was a thing to notice*
inasmuch as her disposition was naturally cheerful
and lively. The trouble, whatever you call it*
came on her gradually, much as a fog rises. At
first she simply felt languid. Very little exertion
made her tired. Her breath came to be very
short, too, and she often felt faint. She couldn’t
eat; that is, not with any relish, and her sleep
was broken up into naps and snatches instead of
being solid and straight away, as good sleep
always is. Her spirits were dull and depressed.
To be sure. "What else could they be?
She had great pain in the region of the heart,
which frightened her, as it would you, for the
heart is a vital organ and we are properly scared
when there’s anything ailing it. Every morsd
she ate distressed her. Even the swallowing of a
mouthful of water was a painful matter. For
several weeks she went on in this fashion. She
kept on with her work in the house and shop (a
bakery), but it was as much as ever.
Simple-medicines, such as we all know of—these
she tried, but no good came of it. So she next
consulted the family doctor, a man who has a
large practice and is considered very clever. He
examined her carefully and then said, “Mrs.
Plowright, you are suffering from congestion of the
liver, heart disease, and debility.”
This was a statement fit to make the poor
woman give up in despair. Indeed, it nearly did.
But the doctor was right; that is, from his point
of view. He treated the patient for some time.
For a short space, occasionally, he relieved her;
then she was as bad as ever. “ Once in a while,”
she says, “my heart almost stopped beating, and
I looked and felt like a dying person.” This, she
was told, was the incurable complaint called
angina pectoris; but it wasn’t, nor anything like
it. Still, it Was serious and dangerous.
Her letter ends in these words : I had read in
a book about Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup,
and my husband had taken some of it and thought
highly of it. But I had not much faith in it. I
began by taking fifteen drops and followed the
directions. This dose suited me, and after having
used up the bottle I felt better. I could eat and
digest food, the pain in my chest and side gradu-
ally went away, and after taking two bottles more
I was well, and have been well ever since.”
(Signed) Mrs. Plowright,
wife of Mr. William Plowright, of the Lincoln-
shire Bakery, 23, Cheetham Street, North Street,
Cheetham, Manchester.
What are we to think of this case? We are to
think that this lady’s “heart disease” was what
is called “functional,” not “organic” disease.
In plain English, the heart’s action was disturbed
by the blood poison created by indigestion and
dysnepsia— her real and only malady. The liver
trouble and debility were parts of the same puzzle.
And so was the asthma.
Now, what is the worst fog that ever darkened
England ? It is the fog which keeps doctors and
people from seeing that nearly all the complaints
they suffer from are nothing more or less than
symptoms of indigestion and dyspepsia, and
curable by the remedy mentioned by Mrs. Plow-
right. By reason of this fog folks walk straight into
open graves—every day.


°y" ■
,<1> D
r ">;
rV-f
\
(jyfiriyed loliienj a)
"Share,as'
d'jdjc'K tyo^jp
(Rtyoay ca>Tfd 4
Toorce OipclaU
//<; L'iaujJ
'-y' ■
i*f 1 1 /f rp 1 ’
3<h
*( i
/
/£
or cl
ltd
C
o^ v
tkd 'hjts’
Gi- fen cl 11 btCj C.pcu f.ptAo. -Tisr.
io»# bollefj c c UJJ C .
oX ) f 1
4*
y* _
airy irj
prefouhd imbi-essm* . „ K (
s
u In the Modern He view for June', Ethel Stokes argues
R cogently in favour of the establishment of volunteer
I corps for women. “ Women, arise,” -says Ethel Stokes,
I “and play the man.” It is an untortunatqjphrase, for
I) it suggests the retort that it will only be play.
Jesting apart, however, the suggestion is a
[thoroughly good one. There is no reason in the world
that women should not serve as light cavalry, and it
would do them a world of good if they were accustomed
Jto the discipline and exercise which military service
entails
j' LECTURE!
JUWBOId
JJfrA teTTU
Centaurs coats • • e
aUc bee ° r re9 -
U 7 cUr Rfe ftUhatfic iy-
of ,
'V
I
it) i 1 •
—j/r .
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


soivj 13"
N B 1
r<) Al l CHI T 41 '
11,11':
CON c£RT
z ‘go
fts &
czgahijT 1 of*n tom
of scurri/ouz t-jevcrf>cf>e.r ha.c.6s
WarsAall Mall urill dedicate. An tt e let
Concert" XT
Al/m seAf--
fax. fo//eefor.. — Wo Ur
'fvfK 7e/l
hour
■m a. M.jf''”
Yo M. lX^
Tn e. n.
iuxue n' t~
felt- welt
tk‘ s U
j£*> M
t ??t-ci<f<! 3. C 'ons7i/* e >-rf — '' L'ooA Ae/-e/ /a.A/e AS O Yl / 1 lO.it
K }s.utyosc
it
'7aY4ef- / us/ '// /o u Aat/e ~/o~A?atS Jn 7a k. A/ffl
nr&nsfsV" y nlHll
'r
\J/ec*sur<r
Courier ss
CK-f- 1-0-1 cl — ~fo~ _
fra.lk. cLoitrn do Wn~-
!Co llin S x/>7 ca 7^e
\'3udQe.t' fo /-o^ooiOL.li
'ive/'€. C/A.bh j kd\
-fe ha,<i loe e.om<2-
fcL-m. o vf-. joi'
a\fo idln(J~
witk
ixml re II•
_OW/
w\
/ Spe. C?7%e f- £Lye_
Z.at<ryP/- Zeorx ._ IScxyTVnfc 7/?e
eye. o 7 7/i e cot* yiTiy /* hoslt/ifely
-vv'/ >-\ 7c / 7i y . 1
\ 'T'ZeocLore Tte // A<*
~i7ie -uf> or
{•onTemf°7oj7 i*
z* /-T^ -
Li
'O
4
u.l
*o
Or
i
Hali^yer
WfoME.
fA*
DZ)oci/or Cur/eD. u. Dover
T?7£ To £./<o.y> ~/A/s s/o/e rx clicL /
on yox4.r C/i e s 7.
CHIEFLY VICTORIAN.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &e., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
JEIO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
the great French Specialist. No medicines. His treatise
on “Woman’s Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope,
upon application by letter (or personally) to 45 Collins
I’lace, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
J} e utsdt-JUistra Ikcht
Kiwhcint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis
Zu haben l»ei alien Zeitungs-Agenten.
Abonnement 10 sh. jithrlich direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing OJjicc, 20 Hunter Sir., Sydney.
Society
Dear Bulletin,— -The enclosed very badly
Informed article, from Sydney Sunday Times, is
sent you so that you may correct the public error
that the new N.S.W. Governor is a rich man.
As a matter of fact, his estates in Scotland are
only worth about £5OOO a year, and, like those of
many other English and Scotch landlords, they
will be improved by his absence. lam sure the
Gov. himself must be greatly surprised at the
spurious reputation he has obtained of being
immensely rich.— One Who Knows.
* # «
A number of well-meaning white ladies of
Bathurst (N.S.W.) have undertaken to teach the
local Chinese reading, writing and English, and
have already enrolled nineteen Chows as pupils.
In view of the results which, in California, have
accrued from a similar association of white ladies
and Celestial scholars, it strongly behoves the
fathers, brothers and husbands of Bathurst to
Bee (if only to prevent the world from “talking ”)
that the bland and thick-lipped Cow Fat and
Duck Yeh, also Loo Ki and Sing Hop, get taught
by white males. Beauty is only skin-deep—and
so is Chinese ugliness.
• # *
Mayor Willcox, of Adelaide, has retorted
on press critics by leaving them out of the list of
invitations to his ball. He Is economising over
the dance because he has to entertain the inter-
provincial delegates to the September meeting of
the Australian Association for the Advancement of
Science.
* * #
A Australian public official, receiving
£lOOO a year, absconded with some thousands in
1886, having first obtained from the Crown Soli-
citor, ostensibly in the interests of his office,
information as to countries with which no extra-
dition treaty existed. He went first to Mexico,
but, in the following year, the conclusion of
arrangements for the interchange of criminals
induced him to pass on. Last mail the U.S.
Govt, informed the Si A. Premier that, if expenses
Were guaranteed, they would catch the absconder
and hold him till a detective came along, and this
is now being done. Had he stopped at home,
gaol-time would have expired ere now.
• * *
S; Australia has had bad luck with hef
defaulters. A former clerk of Adelaide Police
Court vanished with a large assortment of fines
hnd fees ; a Land Titles clerk and Anglican lay
leader is now in Europe with some short-
age; an erstwhile big light in the church and
Secretary of a church institute will be Welcomed if
he returns ; and several minor notorieties ate also
still missing. Probably a thorough search of the
Church choirs in foreign parts would produce im-
portant results.
The Tyson drun-
kenness alleged cure
has got hdld of the
Pall Mall Budget
“properly.” In a
reeent number it gives
an account of the visit
of Dr. Tyson to Aus-
tralia and his adven-
tures there. Now, is
there anyone in Aus-
tralia who has seerl
the Dr. ? Here he
Was always under-
stood to be working
out some giant prob-
lem at his laboratory
at Cleveland, Ohio
(most Murkans come
from either Cleve-
land, Ohio, or Ver-
mont, Mass.) and too
much occupied to
leave the States.
Also, the English
journal aforesaid in-
forms us of a con-
versation between him
and Mr. Panton,
P.M., of Melb.
« *
“ Unpremeditat-
ed indiscretion,” has
taken the place of
good old ‘ 1 klepto-
mania ” in England,
where accused is
“ respectable.”
Miss Jessie Middleton, daughter of Mr.
Cecil Middleton, of Goulburn, N.S.W., having
just finished her course of music at Leipsic Con-
servatorium, has been presented with a certificate,
signed by all the professors, stating that she is
the best pupil of the day, and predicting a great
career for her. Unfortunately, this prediction is
not likely to be realised, for the young lady has
now promised her hand and heart to a young
German gentleman of the legal persuasion in
Leipsic, and as Frau von Blank she may have
to devote her time to the nursery instead of the
piano. Miss Middleton will return to N.S.W.
for a while at the end of the year, when the public
may have an opportunity of judging of her ability.
550 x, M.L. A., attended the Royril Huvrtane
Society’s annual at Melb. Tdwri Hall, arid sptike
with one hand in his pdoket. There he stood,
jinglirig his siDef, and firing off nun arks
At the vice-regal party. Lady Hopetorin visibly
bbjected to the uri-Hinglisfi demeanour of old Zox
oil such a special dooasiori.
# # •
A Northern lawyer, notorious for dis-
honouring his _ signature, persuaded his client,
who was committed for trial on,bail of £2OO, that
the erring one would, have to find the bail in hard
cash. • Prisoner found the coin, handed it to the
lawyer, who promptly procured two friends to
go bail, stuck to the £2OO, and had the satisfaction
of seeing his client sent up for four years. Query ;
What interest will the eminent one allow his
client on this very fixed four years deposit ?
• # *
There is a change in Victoria’s Supreme
Court now that George Higinbotham is dead. All
writs are issued in the name of “His Honor the
Honorable Sir John Madden, Knight, Chief
Justice.” Contrast this with his predecessor’s,
“ His Honor George Higinbotham, Chief Justice.”
# # #
So many Victorian J.P.’s are out of work
and hard-up now that a cute lawyer might pack
any suburban bench at a .“ long-sleever ” per head
and rail-fare. In a recent case where the de-
fendant was a Wesleyan parson, so many of his
co-religionists were on the bench that an intelli-
gent spectator audibly asked, “Is this ’ere a
Perleeoe Court, or is it a Wesleyan Conference?”
The verdict justified the question.
* • •
Meston and Purcell’s Queensland niggers
are put to base uses in Melbourne. A Bourke-
street draper puts up a couple of the poor devils
(our countrymen) to grin in his window, without a
horse-collar.
# # »
The Melbourne Austral Salon, which
wept over Kipling and Antoinette Sterling, has
just forwarded a fulsome illuminated address to
George and May. And one of the Salon’s promi-
nent members always distinguishes herself by
ostentatiously sitting down while the Anathema
is played. Wonder which way she voted ?
• # #
Baby heiress Kathleen Macpherson was
before the Melb. Court again the other day, step-
father Barton (nephew of the N.S.W. Attorney-
General) appealing against a previous order that
Kathleen’s maternal grand-aunt should be a co-
guardian along with himself. The Court took the
opportunity to say that the famous law-suit, out
of which Barton came triumphant, had been
instituted by the other Side for the sole purpose
of “kidnapping” Kathleen. She inherits £70,000
on her marriage, or at the age of 25, and Mr.
PurVes, Q. 0., fixed her up in his nursery to be
trained and educated along with all the little
Purveses. ’Twas hard to part with Kathleen.
• * *
Query : Did the publicity given to mur-
derer Page’s ease (S.A.) affect Hamilton Arm-
strong, who, like Page, went to the police and
gave himself up for murder, saying “I did it—l
must have been mad ?” Exactly the same words.
# # •
The N.S.W. railway department, in argu-
ing through counsel that it should not be obliged
to pay £l2OO to the little girl Forsyth who had
been injured on the railway line, as the parents
and not the child might use the money—gives
cause for questioning its possession of even a
rudimentary sense of decency. The argument
THE “S,M. HERALD” PUPLET.
Old GRANNY: “Well, I’m sure I tried everything, and now I have to
give him up after all.”
amounted to this—that because there was a possi-
bility that the parents might defraud the child, it
(the department) was to be empowered to defraud
her.
* m *
Foreigners in our hospitals are badly and
irregularly supplied with the literature of their
own countries. A German who knew no English,
but desired something to read, was given the other
day his choice of the “Sunday At Home,” the
“Leisure Hour,” and “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin”—all
in the language of the Cockney wardaman.
* • «
Ex-Treasurer Bruce Smith introduced
women type-writers into the N.S.W. Works
Department when he ruled there, and ex-Treasurer
J. F. Burns, when at the G.P.0., first introduced
women employes into the clerical branch of that
department.
# # *
Now that Judge Windeyer’s decision in the
George Lepherd case throws on Master-in-Lunacy
Barton the sole local duty of moving to make
sons support lunatic fathers or mothers confined
in public institutions, the current talk about the
negligence of certain fashionable Sydney people,
whose septuagenarian and octogenarian parents
are believed to be taken care of at the public
expense, should be set at rest.
in Half the cases in which alimony is sued
fdr in Australian courts, the wife’s affidavit de-
clares the husband’s income to be over £lOOO a
year, vfrhile the husband’s affidavit ill reply sets the
income down at under £l5O.
# * 8
xs- , ,
Bishop Camidge raises again the conten-
tious point that the Anglican See of Grafton
should be tilled by a University man. That, in
effect m f ns an imported mam The Graftonites
should stand fast by the material in Austra iri.
Ihe results of systematically dpnying promotion
to local clergymen cannot fail to be disastrous.
#*i * , ■
A number of the Melbourne Trades Hall
men found 300 Chinese working in the furniture
factories:on Sunday. The Chows work 14 hours
on the day of rest, and the white cabinetmaker
has a day of rest every day.
# m #
For the information of Melbourne City
Council and the Vie. Railway Department, which
Kri o o „,, j „
contra ntnr writoa In lliA \nr inti tier
cart ng contractor writes to the Argus, pointing
out that the proper care and feeding of a horse
costs quite £1 a week. Query-Where does the
u 9
driver come,n?
Townsville (Q.)
hospital nurses, on
race-days, sell flowers
on the course in aid
of the hospital fund.
• #
A Sydney press-
man, who lately at-
tended a lunch and
was left to bite his
pen while the com-
pany ate, “cut up
rough ” on his return
to his office. But
why? There is in
Sydney at present a
newspaper man to
whom it frequently
fell some years ago to
attend such spreads,
and who never once
confounded the reason
of his presence with
the object of the com-
pany. There is an-
other Who gave up
that class of work
because his office in-
sisted that whenever
unknown people who
did not know him
asked him to eat, he
was to sit down and
do it. No newspaper
man worth his salt
should accept food or
drink from persons
who only know him
as a newspaper-tout.
Charles Dickens says
something about this
somewhere, which
every reporter whom
instinct does not
guide, should cut out
and commit to me-
mory.
# #
It may interest a
lot of N.S.W. people
to learn that Mrs,
Dalglish-Bellasis, the
lately re-married
Broke nhillionairess,
had convalesced after
providing her new
English husband with
an heir.
We have been reading in the Oldham
(Eng.) Standard of a public meeting held to con-
sider what steps should be taken with a view to
the local celebration of the York-Teck marriage.
The citizens crowded the hall, and emphatically
and almost unanimously decided to take no steps
whatever. Aldermen and representative Fat
Men present were furious at the disloyalty of the
ratepayers, but the latter could not be persuaded
to even “ feed the poor ” on the wedding-day.
The most wonderful thing about the matter is the
fact that the paper mentioned, although Conser-
vative, does not insist that the meeting was
packed by the riffraff and the “lower class of
Irish.”
* * *
Several jewellers in Sydney have been
notified that they will be expected to keep a
record of names and addresses of persons from
whom they purchase melted gold.
* * «
While there is hunger in N.S. Wales sheep
by the thousand are being boiled down for tallow
within a mile of Sydney. At places like Inverell
flour is going at 15s, per bag, and prime mutton
at per lb. Food abounds ; the difficulty lies
in keeping open a line of communication between
the food and the hungry mouths.
• « *
The furnishing of the Melbourne Govern-
ment offices is on an extravagant scale, exceeding
the Sydney fashion, condemned by Dibbs. For
instance, the cost of a table, in the Customs Com-
missioner’s office, is said to have been ,£l4O.
• # »
Queer occurrence in Victoria last week. A
bridal trousseau, cost .£3OO, was ordered for the
Western District, from a Bourke-street shop, and
duly forwarded. The 14 dresses, including the
bridal one, were forwarded in two boxes, one con-
taining all the bodices, the other all the skirts.
The skirts have apparently been absolutely lost.
« # #
A Melbourne Independent parson declares
that very few of his brethren are paid more than
£l5O a year! But the pickings—the little inci-
dental pickings.
* * *
Wanted for Australia : A Patron Sinner.
» # #
The cable has sent a palpably “thin ” yarn
concerning the valour of the King of Portugal.
His Majesty was walking through the streets of
Lisbon when he saw two drunken men fighting,
and “ intervened.” One of the ruffians thereupon
“stoushed ”■ the Lord’s anointed, but “he suc-
ceeded in capturing his assailant, whom he
handed over to the police.” That’s how the cable
puts the case. Now, when his Majesty was laid
low by the inebriate he said, “Behold your
King!” or words to that effect, and the mob
thereupon held the man of wrath until his
Majesty arose from the gutter and formally made
the capture. A Lisbon mob is the most impe-
cunious mob in Christendom, and would allow no
man who looks good for five shillings (let alone a
king) to struggle with anybody whilst there were
a hundred able-bodied loafers ready to earn a
copper by seizing hisj victim. The chances are
that they killed the drunken man before calling
upon his Majesty to come and capture the corpse.
* * #
A few Melbourne snobesses have started a
subscription for a village settlement, to be called
the “ Princess May Settlement,” At the end of
their first Week they had raked In £lO 145.,
The Bulletin must protest Against the idea of
Australia facing parcelled off into' soißh'nits Or thfj
Royal Family upqri any such terms.
can have a monopoly of princesses’ settlements.'
,■ » *
, “Mr. Neptune Scott, of Warrnambpol, has
taken the degree of, .doctor of medicine,at
University of Glasgow.”— (Gable.) And, .flip boy
at the boot-shop round the corner has, taken
measles. If Neptune Scott were living over the
boot-shop instead of being stuck away in Eng-
land he would have a show to get his first patient.
We are weary of the young Australian who takes
his degree. It’s much easier to take a degree at
Glasgow. W the way, than at Melb. University.
A SAFETY-VALVE.
ETHEL (who thinks her country cousin nervous) : “Can’t you find anything
better to squeeze than a felt hat.”
COUNTRY COUSIN : “Wait a bit, I’m only reducin’ my energy for fear I
might hurt you.”
One of the doctor’s at the Board of Sydney
Hospital last week said that many of the pool
people treated at the Regent-street dispensary
would be better if they got a bowl of soup and a
bath, instead of physic.
• • #
Good name for bush inn—Lambing-flat
Hotel.
• * •
The history of the Speight v. Spite case is
written by the two Melbourne morning papers on
a “ one down, t’other come up ” system. The Age
gives a full report of each witness’s examination-
in-chief, and then collapses for a time, whilst the
Arous supplies faithful details of the cross-
examination. When either journal speaks of an
“off-day ” as regards public interest, it means an
“on ’’-day for the rival journal.
* * *
The old A.J.S. bank building at Broken
Hill has been reconstructed, and is now used as a
chemist’s shop. The room in which Sleath and
Cotton broke one another’s heads is now devoted
to the compounding of boluses and lotions.
• * *
There is an increase in Melbourne of men
who mutter in the street.
• • •
A Northern J.P. lately sentenced his
mother to a week’s imprisonment for riotous
behaviour on a recent occasion.
# # •
It is said on good authority that a journa-
list on the staff of a Sydney newspaper is in the
pay of the police department as a private detec-
tive. As the name of the individual is known to
more than one, he cannot expect his identity to
remain long a secret.
# • #
Vanity and the competitive spirit com-
bined, instigated a N.S.W. professional man
recently to offer to take 5000 copies of a Sydney
newspaper, provided a biographical notice of him-
self, written by himself, were published in the
issue.
# * *
Bartlett, M.P., wants to do away with
autocrat Hartley, S.A. Inspector-General of
Schools, and appoint in his stead a Board com-
posed of “ five men and five women, mothers of
children !”
* * #
It is the fashion for the college-boys of
Adelaide to wear the initials of their Alma Mater
upon their hats. The youngster of the recently-


ARE YOU AFFLICTED
with
DYSPEPSIA,
CONSTIPATION,
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
BACKACHE,
ACHING LIMBS, or
LIVER COMPLAINT?
If so, safe remedies are within your reach at a
nominal cost. CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS have never yet failed to
cure the worst oases. General debility, nervous-
ness, weakness, and general complaints of the
digestive ana nervous systems are promptly cured
by these reliable remedies; They are prepared by
scientific processes, and are not merely mechanical
mixtures made only to “gull the public.” The re-
nown CLEMENTS TONIC and FLETCHER’S
PILLS have won in Australasia is proof of the
fact that they stand pre-eminent for their special
classes of diseases. No remedies ever sold gave
such entire satisfaction to their patrons, and
evidence is forthcoming from every city, town, and
village to prove their virtues. No doubt can now
exist as to their value, but purchasers must be
careful to get the genuine articles as many un-
scrupulous traders will attempt to palm off a
substitute, if possible, for the sake of extra profit.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none hut thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALINGT Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL AND LECHLBITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “HELLING.”
Pianos h>j a'l Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
established Way College; however, by deputatiott
desired immunity frdrrt the custorrt’, 4nd the
authorities, after consideration, agrtted that the
request Was teasottable,
fc * *
fhe managing clerk of an Australian soli-
citor died the other day, leaving a penniless wife
And large family, and a deficit in his cash. Tfie
solicitor, bn being asked for help to bury hi? late
'employe, paid this touching tribute to the
:“ No ——-- fear ! Tlie only
satisfaction I have is that the crimson thief is dead
and rotted’.” , *
One of the North Quay (Brisbane) board-
mg-house keepers lately opened her door to the
knock of two of the local female fashionables.
Could they ascend to the balcony and watch the
funeral pass? “Well, it’s this way,” said the
hash-lady; “we’ve had so many things missing
lately that one can’t be too careful. P’r’aps you’d
better not!” , '
* m #
Yours merrily, John R. Rogers, parted
from his Minnie Palmer these many months, is
about to sue that well-seasoned, fluffy little
darling for a divorce. At the same time he will
sue the other man—a wicked baronet—for -£lO,OOO
damages, and if he gets anything approaching
that comfortable sum it ought to temper the wind
to the shorn Rogers. The thought of Minnie as a
respondent is rather disillusionising. She was
so hysterically young and innocent on the stage,
and she used to have such a girly-girly scorn for
the bold-faced adventuress whose lovin’ husband
waited round the corner. And Rogers lied so long
and fervently for Minnie’s sake. The Bulletin
never expected a decree nisi to come between John
R. and the woman he advertised. But seemingly
there dawned a day when John was of no more
use to Minnie’s professional career. The papers
ceased to print his stories of how Minnie nearly
fell under a cab, and how thieves broke in anil
stole six tons of her jewellery, leaving only six
sacks-full behind, and so forth. Then the baronet
(so Rogers is understood to allege) came in at thf
door and Rogers flew out at the window, 'i en
thousand ducats ! A round figure.—
A proposal to name one of the new wards
of Adelaide hospital after Princess May was
sturdily opposed by John Colton, who, albeit a
knight, objected to “that sort of .tiling.” Eventu-
ally, the names of Flinders, the navigator, and
Light, who laid out the city, were selected. A
suggestion to christen one after chairman Graves
was rejected, as calculated to depress patients.
* *
A policeman now lives in Deeming’s Mel-
bourne house, the scene of the crime.
# # *
The N.S.W. Equity Court people, judges,
barristers, and all the rest of them, form an in-
teresting cdterie, well wortli studying. They all
live close together on the Parramatta river. If
a Sydney barrister doesn’t live on the Parramatta,
that is a sign that he is not making his pile out of
the Equity Court.
* * *
Purves, in the Speight v. Syme case,
“Mr. David Syme has nothing to do with this
case beyond paying tremendously heavy costs.”
• # #
Two young men are suspected of having
stolen a dead Chinaman from his sorrowing
delations in a Victorian toWnship. The thin whb
\VcUlId steal 4 dead Chow would have 4 career
before him itt the National Association.
* #
Melb. newspaper circles are much con-
cerned over the strange disappearance of a poduM l
reporter. On the evening of : 14 th tilt, he handed in
his “ and has not since been heard of.
* *, * |
i “Dagouet” ,Sims, iiv a recent Referee,
ridicules the arrangements for the public at that
gorgeous monument of flupkeydom, the Imperial
Institute. This is what he foresees in the near
future:—■
10 a.m.—lnstitute openi free to the, general public on
payment of sixpence, entitling the bearer to half a pork-
pie and a glass of ale; I i
IL—Selection frbni popular music-hall songs on the
great organ. . , . r
1 L —Collections closed to all but Fellows., .The refresh-
ment kiosk and dining-rooms open to the general public
4 s usual. | Use of table to parties bringing their own pro-
visions, 2d. a head.
2.--Institute reopens to general public on payment of
one shilling, which includes admittance to the performing
fleas and the boxing kangaroo.
8. Tight-rope performance in the grounds. Fellows
admitted free to the swings, steam circuses and razzle-
dazzles.
4- —The Salvation Army hand in the kiosk of the Wes-
tern Gardens.
®- — Collections and gardens closed to all but Fellows.
7. —General public re-admitted on payment of one
shilling.
8- —Turning on of the gas and lighting of the electric
lamp*.
9. —Grand display of fireworks.
10. Public entrances closed.
10.30. —Bars closed.
10.45.—Everything closed.
H- —Police, waiters and attendants leave the building
by special exits.
* # «
The wife of Herod Makin, now “doing
time”—life-time—in Bathurst gaol asserts that
there was a second woman involved in the baby-
farming business, and thinks it very unfair that
she should be allowed to go scot free while John
Makin goes to eternity and she—the wife—suffers
a living death.
* # »
In the Old Colonists’ Home, at Melbourne,
not one of the present residents arrived before the
gold era.
# # «
“ AForced Striker's Wife,” bogus author of
the historic letters to Sydney D.T., is somewhat
of a capitalist. She has a large, well-luruished
4 V\AW I(4 411 s
y\)»v* Theh
BO'/?
0M E TWO
/<sl'
X ■ V E. '
“Tiger Inglis, M.P., advocates the establishment of glee clubs and musical societies to
minimiss larrikinism.”— DAILY Papes.
boarding-house, choke-full of lodgers, everything
paid for, and a ten years’ easy lease from her
landlord.
# # *
Whose island in the Hawkesbury River is
to be bought by N.S. W. Govt, for an inebriates’
home ?
# * *
Women’s clubs are drinking-shops.— Dr.
Anna Potts.
* # *
Dr. Anna Potts’s lectures to “women
only ” are also to married men. But the latter
have to get ’em second-hand. However, Dr. Har-
rison’s lectures to men only don’t reach the married
women. Not through their husbands, anyhow.
* * *
Charities Superintendent Maxted suggests
that N.S.W. Govt, should found a home for ine-
briates on a desert island—this, no doubt, that the
patients should be surrounded on all sides by
water, which, by the way, would be handy to
drown in, in case of melancholia produced by
isolation. No toper can be reclaimed unless he
wishes to be reclaimed and aids in his own reclara-
mation. The motto of Courtenay Smith, of Echo
Farm Home : “ Come in by the front door, and if
you don’t like it, go out by the back,” is best.
The end of the razor is near, W. Jno.
Baker, cutler, of Hunter-street, has brought out a
shaving-machine, which is guaranteed to cut less
skin, cause less “cuss words,” and leave the
human surface smoother than anything else in the
market. Descriptive booklets will be forwarded
on application.
In spite of the assertion of a reverend
gentleman that until man returns to the fig-leaves
of Adam and Eve he will not be happy—nor
comfortable Sydney mercers continue to
bombard the city with “new shipments” of
various articles of attire. Possibly, the fact that
the authorities object to the fig-leaf costume has
something to do with this state of things. How-
ever, by a recent steamer, Messrs. Braham &
Mutch, of 75 King-st., have received sundry
novelties in cellular underclothing. The special
feature of the latest goods of this class is that
they are positively unshrinkable. Descriptive
pamphlets and price-lists may be had on applica-
tion.
Attention is drawn to the fact that The
Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition closes
August 5.
Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations tree. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (Oeorge-street entrance.)
The Story-teller of Australian .Pioneers.*
In “The Last of Six,” Ernest Favenc publishes
in a collected form those tales of the Austral
tropics which have from lime to time appeared in
the columns of The Bulletin. The volume is
evidence of how much a man , gains by a total
presentment of a number of i scattered efforts ; for
no matter how effective an isolated story may
prove, it is only when a number of such stories
are gathered together that the versatility and
power of a writer can be adequately appreciated.
In the little collection in question the distinctive
note of Australian scenery is struck with no un-
certain sound. The local colour is direct, vivid,
vehement, The author’s compass ranges from
ttiangrove swamp and the northern creek, to the
gulches, the iron-bound ranges, the spinifex, the
stony deserts, the boundless plains, the cattle
camps, the sheep stations, and the boundary huts
of the lone interior; it embraces the pearling
waters of New Guinea ; and the serpent-haunted
jangles of Borneo. It fervidly delineates that
desolate, dreary, deadly expans .>f wasted west-
land, vaguely known as the “Interior,” with its
blasted scrub, its sandy, barren, blistering
soil burning beneath a scalding sky.
* # *
In his vein Ernest Favenc stands to the fore
among writers distinctly Australian. Here is no
copy of the language of the canons and the
sierras; nothing of Bret Harte and California,
and Joaquin Miller, or Arizona Bill and Jack
Hamlin. Faulty or faultless, he breaks new
ground—and breaks it in pioneer fashion with
much energy and vehemence. His limit is marked,
but the limitation is not a niggardly one. He
treats of the weird, the tragic, the pathetic, the
humorous. Among the first stands pre-eminent
the story styled “ Spirit-Led.” To the same class
belong “ The Track of the Dead,” “ The Spell of
theMas-Hantoo,” “ Malchook’s Doom,” a story of
the Nicholson River, “ A Haunt of the Jinkarras”
—an uncanny sketch which reminds us somewhat
of that lately-published book, “The Earth Girl ”
and “The Cook and the Cattle-stealer.” Favenc’s
tragedy is sombre and powerful. The condensation
of horror in the “ Last of Six ” is truly masterful.
It is, however, hard to classify these tales under
separate headings, most of them partaking of the
weird, the tragic, and the pathetic together. “ A
Cup of Cold Water ” is a vividly-told story of ven-
geance unconsummated; “The Missing Super”
is a horror of aboriginal retribution. Among the
humorous sketches are “ The Rutnford Plains
Tragedy,” “ Tranter’s Shot,” and “ The Parson’s
Blackboy,” while “ The Mystery of Baines’ Dog ”
alternates between tragedy and comedy. “That
Other Fellow ” is the pathetic gem of the book ;
but “Pornpey” is a story that provokes a strange
gulp m the region where gulps of feeling should be
strangers. “ The Story of a Big Pearl ”is a study
in the logic of events that Rudyard Kipling might
be proud to have written, and “ A Lucky Meet-
ing ” is a sermon preached in prose for the benefit
of the back-blocks prodigal. The style of this col-
lection is -.terse, the language graphic, the vision of
the author -accurate, and the local colour highly
artistic.
* “The Last of Six, Tales of the Austral TroDics,” by
Ernest Favenc: Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co.. Ltd., Sydney, Australia. One shilling, by post Is. 3d.
WANTED-A BETRAYER.
TTiyOULD Gent, kindly lend young lady in trouble
s'' few pounds, pay with interest. Esther, G.P.0.,
Syd,—Sydney E. News.
,Poor Esther ! Here, men, read the tale
Of hpw a base, deceiving male,
Presuming on your want of sense,
made a wreck of innocetioC;
Some youth—immaculate perchance
In tflosc respects Which .most enhance
Matt’s manly beauty ;: s/ptless, high,
jEat-reAchirig collar, cascade tie,
Artfl 411 those subtle things which Hell
Urdaitted should sound weak Virtue’s knell.
Rut who, when “ trouble ” loomed ahead,
Op other girls his lustre shed,
On other girls his linen shone,
And other forms he gazed upon.
Minnie Palmer, te l us truly—
Have you carried on unduly?
Is the wife of John R. Rogers
E’en as one who loves the lodgers?
Swear now, by your silken stocking,
You have not been rather shocking!
By your’lilili airs and graces,
Perky ways and fancy faces,
Swear you've nothing' to regret
As regards the baronet!
Tell us, tell us, Minnie Palmer—
That our spirit may be calmer—
Are you not as lustrous white
As tiie diamonds at night
Seen upon your bosom gleaming?
Isn’t jealous Rogers dreaming?
He who once was, O, so merry ;
Painful situation, very—
Johnny, in a fume and fret,
Going for the baronet,
Minnie, when your name was looming
Large, you needed lots of booming,
John, with paragraph and story,
Built the halo of your glory.
By his labour unabated
Minnie was, in fact, “created” ;
John’s cigars, at five a shilling,
Made the coy reporter willing
To besmear with marmalade
All the silly parts you played.
Did he want it spread on thicker—
Johnny came and shouted liquor ;
All your fortune you are owing
To his putting and his blowing.
Craving payment of the debt,
Must he sue the baronet ?
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and.
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Battle-Axe’’: An unattractive ditty. Try
again... “Sugar Cane”: Unprintable, of course....”/.
Phillips” (Vic.): As indecent as Dibbs’ apostasy “ c'.
C. Kelton”: Thanks. Over 50 copies of “The Tramp”
the verses .enquired for, have reached The Bulletin,
“ Percy S. ’: Life too short to read your hieroglyphs.
“ E.E.S.” ; When next you send sketches please also send
statutory declaration of originality sworn before seven
J-’sP “J- Lawless”; Makin’s confession, if any, will
not be divulged by the authorities “ Harry Hill ”: To
hand—“D.W.”: Have, for obvious reasons, cut it in
half . “Damper”: Only of local interest... “H.R.P.”:
You must make your grievance more entertaining, f..
“ More.” : Unless you have a malicious end to serve, why
seek to localise the story ? It is, from a public point of
view, equally good and characteristically Australian,
whether told of J. Smith of Cooktown or J. Smith of
Melbourne. .." A. A. M.” : We don’t print bald, unin-
teresting announcements just to “oblige” people. If
you can send us any short, bright thing of public interest
we will print it even if it does happen to incidentally do you
a good turn. But nobody except Smith is interested in
hearing 1 hat “ Smith’s Opera Co. ” are now at Johnsonville.
“OG Man” (Back County): Letter posted.
.J R” : A cable is 120 (not 200) fathoms. Therefore, the
distance between the Victoria and Camperdown was 1440
(not 2400) yards, and if each vessel required 800 yards to
turn in that settled it.... “V. Desmond ” : Hardly good
enough. The beautiful aboriginal maiden is a graceful
dream, but a very angular and bony awakening “C C ”
(Logan, q.): We fully agree with the friends who advised
you to send your “ amusing yarns ” to London Punch
“ 8.R.” (Croydon); If you got your fine repaid after
calling eleven times for the money—be thankful. We
know a publican who has called thirteen times to collect
a Minister’s drink-bill, and hasn’t got it yet “ F.L.”
That joke was first used in Judaea when a cross-eyed
Hebrew aimed a brick at Barabbas.... “C. Stratton ”: A
strike is like a blockade—no good unless it is effective.".
“Lost All”: Received. By the way, did you “lose
all ” through the workers that you curse so hard, or
through your own foolishness, or how? “Frank B.” :
Good verse... ~“T.T.” (South, Melbourne);. ifpu are
hereby not “encouraged to bpntribute pnythiiig more.!*
J. i. Keenan”: Ypur blood-and-raw-meat-and.
Strangulation poem is again rejected “ J.S.”: Football
is a curious game. If you get in the way of the ball some-
body kicks the top of your head off and throws your ear
over the fence. If you avoid the ball you are disqualified...
"Auditor” (Hamilton River): The reconstruction scheme
of the Q.N. Bank is a thing that has been explained so
often that it has now become as clear as a black hog at
midnight. The depositors and new shareholders will
probably begin to fully understand it when the
reconstructed bank takes them by the throat
“ 8.J.” (Melbourne): Leave the holiday question over till
some time when there aren’t quite so many people enjoy-
ing a perpetual holiday in the Domain. Just now it is 4
mere mockery....“ Paddingtonian ” : You were correct,
without any possible Shadow of doubt whatever..;.'
M Auditor ” (Sydney)-: The present public opinion on
Dibbs can’t be expressed in song, unless you have learned
to sing with a harrow or a shark’s-tooth club “Alexi
Johnstone”: The man who finds on the dressing-table A
note that explains everything is played out “Tim
Bobbin"; In short, the'parson wired to his old hash-
house for accommodation, and then walked in with his
portmanteau and was hugged by a lady of easy virtue on
the stairs ...“Thorne” (Bass Straits): It isn’t exactly
poetry, nor is it any other recognised institution that
we ever heard of. Perhaps it’s the missing link...
“ M. McQ. ”: Unhealthy and partially illegible musings
by a “fallen girl” interspersed with occasional yells of
“O God ! ” “ W.J.H.” (Melbourne); Not good enough
to print, and not bad enough to damn “ K.W.”
(Aramao) : We are sorry your poem didn’t sink in the
Victoria along with the rest of the subject. The worst
of a great disaster is not the slaughter but the poets who
write about it afterwards... “Man in the Gap”: You
evidently mean yourself when you speak of “ Nature’s
gifted child.” What do you call this ?
And sing the waters that haughtily do flow
By the Hut in the Paddock of Bando
Say proud Thompson how often did I view
Your echoing floods sweep through Maneroo ?
Nature’s gifted child will now take a back seat
“ Federation ” : The balloon, you say, is Federation, and
the two dogs that bark at it are Freetradeand Protection.
Well, when the balloon rises, what becomes of the dogs?
“D.B.N.” (Herberton); Too lengthy “Allwon "
(St. Hilda): The story of “ Hamseed Hogstock, Esq.’*
reads like a Fat Man’s nightmare decorated with grease.
.... “W. J. Orr ”:It is essentially a landlord’s poem, and
suited to the “right-thinking person.” Send it to the
Argus, labelled “Oriel.” “ Pannum”: Yes, it does
pay expenses, and more....“ Marcello A.”: We believe it
to lie right, but can guarantee nothing .. “ Anon " S
“ Pickles ” only fit for a child’s paper. “The Diary ”is
of the “Mrs. Caudle’s Curtain Lectures” school, and we
cannot afford to be so funny “Aromet”: It pretends
to be a narration of fact. Now, everyone knows that it
never occurred “Oyster J.” : Dreadfully thin “E.
O. Swainson ” : All minerals on private lands are reserved
to the State, and that which the State owns it should
control “ E. J. Bris.” : After the Worthington Temple
of Truth case who will say Molibre’s Tartuffe is exaggera-
ted ? “ Wai Rim ” : On that story have been founded
a thousand novels and plays. Besides, we don’t care for
translations....“ H. Beech ” (Bunbury): Sorry we don’t
know “The Black Pearl”: A French translation
which could only be taken with deodorant...." The
Loafer”: “As told by the camp-fire.” No—not in this
paper! “ Advocate ” : Nothing in it.... “ Sass ” : Now
what does it mean? “ John D.” (Box Hill): Too tearful
for us “ The Pidgeon ” : To hand. . .“ Charles T. K.”
(Wynyard): Horribly hackneyed—and English ; the frame
round which the budding amateur has been building from
all time. Will G.” (Aberf) : Will consider....“ Helio-
gram ” : (1) No, 24. (2) Either is right, but “ who ” is
much the better. (3) Yes. (4) It’s usual to go first for
obvious reasons. (5) Don’t know. (6) Can’t say for cer-
tain ; we haven’t seen his name lately. (7) A celebration
—a razzle-dazzle —a church tea-meeting—anything
“Med.”: The Bulletin doesn’t believe in the b ona-jidet
of the alleged sailor’s wife who writes to a capitalistic
paper, the enemy of her husband’s Class; “ I dare not
sign my name to this. I dare not even tell my husband t
am writing it, but send my name and addressin private. ..
“ Charles S.” (Manchester): We’ve permanently abolished
Gentleman Jim, the Stockrider, who tells his story by the
camp fire. No gentleman habitually drivels about his
erstwhile grandeur, anyhow. ..“Grin”: You are an
Irishman and solemnly send us a “dirge” beginning
“Weep, Albion, weep.” After all, it is the Scotchmen
who are the humourists “Joe the Turk”: Send us
envelope “Red Mud” (T.): The post will be closed to
him hut he will still carry on ... “ T.R.H.” : Address?...
“ 11.5.” : Thanks. Will send you the papers “6id
Man ” (Back country): Stick to your land like grim death.
Letter posted ... “J. Postlethwaite ”: He can’t, so far as
we see, effectively interfere without special Act of Par-
liament ..“C. W. Messiter” : Tiie'Rulletin is connected
W’ith no other paper, and doesn’t propose to be “ Edgar
Croft ” (Drummoyne): We don’t deal in that brand. Try
the Christian World.. ..." Pat P.” (Melb.): -Partially
anticipated ..." Malolo ”: They dbn’t stick to their
hooks. One Sydney bookmaker has often lost over £soofi
at hazard in a single sitting.
Editor Bulletin* —Re that ingenious
Gardiner-captnre yarn. Is it likely that a travel-
ling photographer would have a “fogged” nega-
tive in his possession “years afterwards?”—W.
Jawbone Neild, who, we think, has never
yet voted for payment of members, now ap-
parently believes in the principle, for he says that
he knows more than one useful member who, bub
for payment, could not have effectively held his
seat. Perhaps he includes himself—for to him the
province is indebted for at least two enormously
important social reforms—the Divorce Extension
and the Protection of Infants Acts, which latter
has, in a year, according to the N.S.W. charity
authorities, saved the lives of at least 500 infants.
FALLEN.
Reactionary, friend of error,
All the world’s old follies blab,
Holding the good fight in terror,
Backward sprawling like a crab !
When they damned thee with a title
Perished pride beneatli the ban.
How unjust was the requital—
Such a knight for such a man !
E.D.


MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established In Australasia, and the only one which
l&r DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors —Thu Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL. Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.;
J. KINO, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A,
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling.
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT
Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1592 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head omce: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
noaelxlll August X3Lsn.xxt3Lxcsk.TZ> —ICosehllJ, Aug.ial IX.
5,000 i'lT - at lo „M 1 5,000
SPRING HA.M'DICA.F’ —Bsimlwlelt, September f.
25,000 at to 25,000
f REGISTER TO
4»ams,
Owner Tattersall’a Hotel &
Old (Jlub Premises, I’itt-st.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-GLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
BBS
i
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD.
N
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the LABOUR
you can produce more polish with TWO Packets
of the "RISING SUN ” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
B
ì
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria;
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
I -Z -
pfy, rf
u
M
./ys
¥
sat
mm
FOR COLDS,
COUCHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
jt DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
lor children, an ever-ready remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, Influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A. c
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and ia
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
i
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
ì
'am
ISOd
AVMV
H3AID
\BROOMES:MUSK
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOMS, IS, Holborn, London, Eng.
JOURN ALISTIC. Experienced Journalist
editor, sub., or reporter,desires engagement.
Address—“ Scribe,” Bulletin office.
ADAMS'
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
„ PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
-A- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hdte DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
mtt Street, Sydney.
City Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, Limited.
HEAD OFFICES .. 95 PITT STREET.
Chairman ;
Men. John. See, M.P., Colonial Treasurer.
Capital Subscribed ... £150,000.
DIVIDEND AND BONUS.
The INTERIM DIVIDEND and BONUS to Shareholders,
at the rate of TEN PER CENT. PER ANNUM, is now
payable at the COMPANY’S OFFICE, and the Bonus of
TEN PER CENT, to Policy-holders is now payable on
renewal of their Policies.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney, July 1, 1893.
TTENRY FARMERS OPERATIC SELEC-
TIONS for VIOLIN and PIANO.
“Martha,” “Robert le Diable,” “ Crown Diamonds, ”
“ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William Tell,” “Faust,” “Un
Ballo in Maschera,” “ II Trovatore,” “ Les Huguenots.”
Is. 6d. each— Of all Music-sellers, or from the Pub-
lishers,
W. PAXTON A < «., London,
AND
251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Amusements.
Theatre royal
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
FOR THE TERM OF HIS NATURAL LIFE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 5,
The Miner’s night.
Founded upon Rolf Boldrewood’s Famous Work of the
same name.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ;
Family Circle, 6d.
_____ Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRES
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
Until Further Notice,
GEO. DARRELL’S GREAT RACING DRAMA,
‘ THE DOUBLE EVENT.”
A Cast of Exceptional Excellence includes Miss Jennie
Lee, Miss Myra Kemble, Her Majesty’s Dramatic
Company, and Geo. Darrell.
PRICES as USUAL, BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM theatre
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets;.
Sole Lessees and Managers, WilliarhsOn and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Grundy and Solomon's New Opera,
“The Vicar of Bray.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
£1 RITE R X O N THE ATR E,
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucieauit.
LAST 7 NIGHTS OF THE BROUGH-BOUCICAULT CO.
To-Night (Aug. 3) Last Night of “LADY BOUNTIFUL.”
Friday, Aug. 4, Benefit to Mr. Ward—“SOPHIA.”
Saturday, Aug. B, one night only—A VILLAGE PRIEST.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, W. H. Wallace.
CHEAP MUSIC'.
PRINCESS MAY WALTZ, with Portrait of H.R.H. The
Duchess of York, and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets,
&c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO„ LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Scene Painting and Stage Decorations.
Mr. ft. J. WILSON,
Over 80 years Scenic Artist and Theatrical Manaprer in
the principal Melbourne and Sidney Theatres, and late of
the Theatre Royal, Opera House, and Ganick Theatre,
having just built a new Studio, is prepared to take
Contracts eoh Soeneny & Stage Fittings
at the lowest possible estimate, from a single Drop Cloth
to a Full Set of Stock Scenery, Pantomime, Burlesque,
Ballet, and Opera Sets complete, also Drop Curtains and
Act Drops, with or without framework.
For particulars and price, address (with dimensions of
stage, width, depth and height, also shape of roof and
proscenium opening) to
W. J. WILSON, Scenic Artist,
161 DOWLING STREET, EAST SYDNEY.
Large hall, singleton
MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE,
Vacant 23rd and 24th August Next.
Annual Show on the Dates mentioned. His Ex
the Governor visiting the town.
Full particulars on application to the Librarian.
B. R. DENNING, Hon. Sec.
ADAM B ED E ’ S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CAUTIONT.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a PERSON SENDING OUT CIE.CULAES pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
i
A.dam. Bede,
Post Office Chambeis,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M>J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
S TT ID IKT IE I£.
tfgf Commissions Executed on following events :
Epsom & Metropolitan.
500 to 1.
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup-
straight-out books oa the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
Y-R-0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
THREE CHANCES.
“Yorkshireman’s” selections
—-FOR—
EPSOM AND METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should be obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Referee, News
and Star. “ YORKSHIREMAN,” o/o W. J. Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
*****
I
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,*’ situated 63]
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE," situated 50 KING STREET
and near the General Post Ottice.
Proprietor CFO. AV. E 1,1,15.
RUPTURE CURED!
ì
Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag*
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture in all parts of the
world and givingrelief to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
oouldbefilled withletters likethese;
A Resident of London.
Mb. John King, of No. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’sEstate.S.E.,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Truss I
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. Itfitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have gota
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses.l can j ump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; i t holds everything firm and sure.
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mr. J. Tomaselli, of the Government House, under date
of December 9, 1892, writes :—“On the 17th of last Apri 1 1 got
one of your trusses and i t has already nearly cured me of a
very bad rupture of about 26 years’ standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me woase. Your Truss has
done what doctors and t russes have not been able to do in
26years. You may publish my letter for the good of the
afflicted.” _ _
Latest from New Zealand.
Mr. T. W. Narbey, of A karoa,Canterbury,in aletterdated
Feb. 21,1893, says: “I received the Truss in good orderand am
gl ad t o say it Jits me like a glove, I can ri d e wi t h ease, 1 i f t,in fact,
do anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while I can get one of yours,”
BtS'Oall or write to-day for our free “111 ust. Pamphlet No.
X,” and please mention this paper. Address the Australian
agents. Messrs. W.H. Sou 1& Co., 118 Pitt St.. Sydney' Elliott
Bros., Brisbane: or, the Magnetic Elastic Trues Co.
<fs. 704 Sacbamknto St., San Fbujcisco, Cal... U. S. A
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The cable announces that the Duke of Con-
naught visited Lord’s and “chatted freely with the
Australians.” Think of that—he chatted freely ! There
was no side about him. He wasn’t stiff and constrained.
He was quite affable and gentlemanly. He talked him-
self, personally, by mouth, without any outside assistance
—that is to say, tie didn’t make his remarks through a
chamberlain or a lord-in-waiting. He was quite friendly
ana communicative and entirely agreeable. In fact, he
talked FREELY. Just think of it! What a wealth of
toadyism can be expressed in six letters !
tt • *
M‘Gregor, the English wicket-keeper, seems to
play very little, and has to work himself into form during
a match. He didn’t even turn up to support his county,
Middlesex, against the Australians last week.
# * m
There must have been some reason, not apparent
on the surface, why five leading members of the Middle-
sex Eleven didn’t play against the Australians. Anyhow,
their absence had a damaging influence on the “gate,”
in which respect the Australian team have had cause for
complaint on several occasions. The “North erf England ”
Eleven was not nearly as strong as it should have been,
the Players were only moderately represented, and other
counties, besides Middlesex, have not done their level
best to make a fight of it. A few years back the pro-
gramme for the tour included several matches with
Elevens of England, and the visitors were chased all over
the country by players of A. G. Steel’s class. This lime
we have a more powerful Australian combination playing
far too many matches that are foregone conclusions before
the stumps are pitched.
* « #
A well-known backer of horses was being touted
in a telegraph-office. The tout was looking over the
backer’s shoulder as the latter wrote out a message.
First of all appeared the word “Back ” “Back,"
whispered the tout to himself, “ that’s it. I wonder
what?” The backer wrote on and the tout turned away
disgusted as he read—“ at 10.30. Don’t wait dinner."
• * »
One of the results of the visit of the M.L.
football-team to Brisbane is the suggestion that the
Northern Rugby Union be abolished and the members
thereof establish a battledore-and-shuttlecock club.
Queensland footballers have yet to learn the advantages
of co-operation and the uselessness of each member play-
ing to his best girl. Nothing could be more hopelessly
absurd than the play of the local team on the 22nd ull.,
when the Maotilanders simply waltzed over them with 35
points to nil. The Queensland teams must in future be
chosen by more than one man.
* # •
“ I’m full of the whole business. Men who turn
up with swelled head at five in the morning don’t play to
win ’’—writes one of the Australian cricketers in England
to a relative in Melbourne.
# * *
A leading Melbourne barrister is thought to
have a special sporting pique against Jack Cohen, the
bookmaker. He always “bucks agin Johnny” at
billiards, or what not, say the fraternity, and the frater-
nity affirm that there is nothing a wily Hebrew likes more
than to have a wealthy, impetuous person of distinction
always “bucking agin him.”
# # *
Two hundred and fifty pounds is offered by the
Tasmanian Axemen’s Association for the championship
prize.
# # #
The big Melbourne v. Fitzroy football match
culminated in a free-fight in six inches of mud. The
papeis are, of course, full of “Disgraceful scene,” “ Ill-
feeling should be repressed,” &c., but the truth remains
that with ill-feeling between clubs is corps d’esprit and
non professionalism. The real lover of the game would
sooner see players pulling each other’s heads off than
selling their services to the highest bidder.
* * *
The Sydney trotting horse Statesman and his
rider, Gus Wilson, are proving as good a combination as
Wilson and the deceased champion pony, Childe Harold.
The first-named have carried off several good trots in
Melbourne recently.
# * *
Morpheus was considered the deadest of dead
things by his party for the Warwick Farm pony double
last week. M. Griffin upset the pot by winning the
Welter from Morpheus with Cricket, w hen Morpheus was
withdrawn from the Warwick Handicap, also won by
Cricket.
# ’* #
The comp, fiend was in evidence last week, when
he made Narellan of the writer’s copperplate Mirabeau,
in connection with the pony carrying 12st. 121bs. to
victory at Lilliebridge.
• • *
Popularity-hunting Melb. traders offer prizes
for the kickers of most football goals. In view of the
sanguinary developments of the game the prizes should
be awarded to the gentleman who shows most ears, teeth,
noses and eyes captured from his enemies during the
season.
• # #
A Victorian jockey who never bets was
eagerly hunting, last week, in Melbourne, for the highest
bid for £4500 of Bank deposit-receipts, and £6OO
stuck up on current account in the same institution.
• • •
A hint to the M.L. footballers. Don’t goon
the lawn at half-time. Everyone can’t get to w indward,
you know.
• • #
When the Chester mare, Medina, who ran well
up amongst the horses, joined the galloway ranks, horsey
people asked “Whatpiice Medina as a pony ?” Racing
the other day in the Warwick Handicap, 14li. 2in., under
her new name of Lady Duff, she was unable to get “ a
place.”
« « •
Before the advent of the weekly pony-meets,
and the training of the Lilliputians by such past masters
as Earnshaw and O'Connor, an undersized aristocrat was
next to worthless and could scarcely be given away, a
matter of no small moment to breeders, who now require
to play the game very low’ down to make both ends meet.
This is a fact The Bulletin would like to press weekly
upon voters of the A. J. 0., in the face of Mr. Melbourne
Macnamura’s proposals at next meeting of the club.
* # •
However, a comparison of the times will show
that a galloway race is no “soft snap ” for the best of the
horses, which is scarcely to he wondered at when Mar-
vellous’, Chester’s, Nordenfeldt’s and other crack sires
stock are becoming plentiful amongst the little tins,
• # #
The enthusiasm raised in Sydney football circles
by the victory of N.S. W. in the second match versus Maori-
laud, subsided rapidly on Saturday when the Maori-
landers won by Ifi to nil. The best team won without the
shadow of a doubt, but had it been a close thing, the
faulty umpiring would have told largely in favour of the
Maorilanders. The victorious team left for home on
Saturday night. They won nine out of the ten matches
played in Australia.
# « #
Tommy Corrigan says that that wonderful little
horse, The Agent, was tlie most perfect hurdler he ever
rode. If the writer recollects aright, Mr. “Bill” Long
made Corrigan a present of The Agent when his racing
days were done.
* * *
Britishers are not so easily persuaded as Aus-
tralians to expatriate the cream of their blood stock.
Offers from abroad of £15,000 and £20,000 respectively for
Marcion and Orme have been refused.
# # •
The Maoriland victory was chiefly by dint of
superior forward play.
# # #
In England the thoroughbred originally imported
from Arabia has gradually increased in size. In Australia
the tendency is quite the other way. Tlie average stan-
dard in England is 15.3. In Australia it would be 15
hands. Hence the popularity of pony and galloway racing
which is bound to flourish, despite the ban of the leading
clubs.
# * *
To be convicted a second or third time of running
a “ tote ” in Sydney now usually means going to gaol.
At this rate, the day of the tote will soon be over—but
it won’t. Tub Bulletin knows of one tote-man w'ho,
starting with next to nothing about six years ago, has
now over £16,000 invested in Sydney city property.
* * *
Larry Foley has taken the old Gymnastic Club
in York-street, Sydney', and is having it fixed up as a
model gymnasium.


ESTABLISHED 1876.
i
write For
D 1?
r HAIR’S
TREATISE,
ON
asthma
O/
i
'Agents
_ "MELBOURNE: I
IbckeTompsitUft.
~ "SYDNEY: ElllOtt BfO?
Brisbane: PTiottßronC?
k PIl/vioF: F. H. fa uldi n ft » ft
Wellington. ftz.Sharland &(r.
» (»■ sxrs>.
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.R.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board oe N.S.'W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Pee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS' SUNDRIES
—AT—
LOUDON & HEW YORK PRICES.
CDR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College op Dental
Sukgebt.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upuer or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from JBI Is.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists fonoarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O; “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back,”
Dr. O. KellV L.R.C.P., Edin., says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED,
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist oB
having our new long waist- Tf any difficulty in
Cotaining ftwrn Draper#’ write Patentee, IS#
Olarcinont, Hastings*, England.
j
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
i her hard day’s work !
| Now ready, post f ree Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To bo bad only of
M-'in. PANZA. Hon <m
tliT.O,, Hvcincy,
YOU
MAY
WIN
A CITY PROPERTY, value .635,000, and 13
other prizes, ranging in value from =615,000 to =£s,
by the investment of =£l in a Share of
The Mutual Freehold Property Distribution
Society of Sydney,
YOU CANNOT
alter your advertisements in Tub Bulletin unless you
stay up all night and attend to it in the middle of the
week before last, owing to the demands on their space,
and the immensity of their circulation. Consequently,
we were prevented from announcing in our ordinary advt-
on page 2 (which see for particulars) that the
Date of Drawing
has been fixed for
POSITIVELY NOT LATER TUAN
7th NO VEMBER
(MELBOURNE CUP DAY).
The Mutual Freehold Property
Distribution Society,
C/o R. HOPE ATKINSON, J.P.,
24, 25, 26 Imperial Arcade, Sydney,
or Local Agents.
Carter & Co?
i
J3uau Table-
WON REVERSIBLE
mu IS Ingeniously Constructed KIIXIAItIt
TtßLßis acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction. Billiards have no equal, combin
inggentleexeroise with an elegant and scientific recreation
The PRICES—‘iS to S7 l A Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
N ESTLE’S FOOD
FOK
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
F rame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ltiui/er, of the University Coif eye,
London, says Nettle's Food is the best oj all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziem=sen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. Vlf.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.’’—Prof. Wm, 0.
Lkube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which arc so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience. ” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS. —Vol. XVI.
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” - Prof.
Bikch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes ;
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
fhiajO
Lancet.
' —"a
ait, John's Worlts, London, W,C.
In five years Mr Turri has
taken out over 1000 Patents, in-
cluding some of the most valuable
issued. His skill was Certified
to by the Attorney-General of
Victoria, in these words :
“I hereby certify that G. G. Turn has satisfied me of
his ability, fitness and general qualification to practice as
a Patent Agent. Given under my hand and seal this 13th
September, 1887.”
Mr. Turri is also a Commissioner for taking Declarations
and Affidavits. ~
Two thousand copies of Mr. Turri’s “Inventors’ Guide
have been sold at a shilling each, evoking a remarkable
number of letters expressing warm appreciation of its
value. A new edition is now issuing—not at present for
sale, but post free to inventors, and to patent owners
only, upon,application.
A large portion of Mr. Turri’s business is conducted by
DIRECT correspondence with inventors all over the
colonies and with persons abroad. Great savings may be
effected by this means, whilst securing the highest skill.
Mr. Turri is prepared to give full and intelligent advice
and information to all who consult him on Patents, Trade
Marks or Designs. Whether answering enquiries, or carry-
ing out instructions, each matter receives his Personal
Attention, and is treated confidentially.
His Patent Office is at Sun Build-
ings, corner Bourke and Queen
Streets, Melbourne, Victoria.
£49,460 worth for £l.
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
THE EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
105,000 SHARES at LI.
Anyone Can Apply ! !
No Liability ! ! !
2403 PRIZES valued at L 105,000.
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
First Prize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, value L 30.000. Rental value,
Ll5OO a year, and other prop rties valued as
under :
2 of L 10,000; 1 of L5OOO ; 4 of L 2500 ; 5 of
LIOOO, and 231)0 of from L 5 to L5OO.
Clear Titles ! ! No Deductions ! ! !
See particulars in advertisements in other issues
of th is paper, or apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or CORK IE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Remember ONE SHARK (LI) may win 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, valued at L 49.460.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
ì
£3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
iei:o\<imis
AMD
IyF\iU F X A A
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor ;
T, H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Dity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited
es MaiglbckcheP
' Ul/oflheW
GUSTAV LOHSE :
*eriih
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILETSOAP
are tlje most fashionable in +f?e world.
Sold by all Ijiglj class'ferfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, July 31,181)3.
r I TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9.
Construction of Timber Beam Footbridge or Sus-
pension Footbridge over Moonan Brook, at
Denison Diggings, alternative tenders to be
submitted
Bridge, Chambigne Creek, road Grafton to Glen
Innes
Construction of Four Boats for Nautical School-
ship Sobraon
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23.
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King-
street to Ocean-street Tramway
Erection of Engineer’s Cottage, Parkes Water
Supply
Bridge over Farmer’s Creek, road Bovvenfells to
Wallerawang, at Coberwull; fresh tenders
Manufacture within the colony, Supply, &c., of
Pumping Machinery, contract No 4, Jeril-
derie Water Supply
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER G.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with Iron
Piers, over the Muirumbidgee River at Wagga
W affga.
WILLIAM JOHN JANE,
Dozens of covered waggons, such as were
used in the early gold-days, are to be seen on the
roads between Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo and
Maryborough. Alarmed at the prosperity of the
carrying industry thus developed the Vic. Govern-
ment last week reduced the railway freights
between those places from 15 to 20 per cent.
Mrs. Frank Leslie Wilde, we read, found
most fault with “ Willie,” whom she is divorcing,
because he would put his teeth on a table and go
about without them. London Hawk believes that
if Mrs. Leslie at any time returns to England
Wilde can still claim her as his wife.
The gorge of the good Democrat rises at
the slobbersome idiocy of the men who unharness
the horses, and act as ass-power for Labour leaders
by hauling them round the town. The workers
should leave hysterical and servile nonsense of
this sort to the toadies of the Fat Man and of
Royalty.
Sydney Daily Telegraph shirks the poli-
tical issue s§t by Dibbs, and declines to say
“straight” whether it has renounced its adher-
ence to payment of members. But the D.T. need
make no pronouncement on the subject. It is
owned and controlled by the Fat Man —by the
syndicate-promoter, the sharebroker, the mining-
speculator, the commission-agent, and soon. Figs
don’t grow on thistles.
Labour - Member M‘Pherson recently
pointed out in S.A. Assembly that South Aus-
tralia has parted with 8,000,000 acres of land, and
received for same .£10,000,000. Borrowed money
to the extent of £20,000,000 has been expended in
creating land-values, of which one half are
owned by eight absentees! And the victimised
S.A. public are toiling to produce ever-increasing
interest. The workers begin to see the snake in
the nest.
A property-tax, too, is something which
Premier Patterson could not entertain at the pre-
sent time, he says. And then he goes on to
“ remind the House that an income-tax has the
advantage of comprehending every kind of pro-
perty.” An income-tax in Victoria just now
would fall mainly upon salaries, whilst the pro-
pertied classes, pleading that their land brought
in no present income, escaped paying anything.
But that doesn’t alter the brazen stupidity of
Patterson’s assertion that he is supporting a pro-
posal which he couldn’t possibly entertain.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs :
We have been harassing the pastoral class in the laud-
able desire to put the people on the land. . . . The
owners of stations had been harassed. If they wished to
restore their industries, and give confidence for the
future, they should let the pastoralists know that . . .
no Parliament should be called on to destroy their powers
of production and their homesteads merely for the pur-
pose of allowing people to job with their lands.
Land Minister Copeland (a few days previously):
If I had the power, no man should he in the position of
a tenant either to the State or an individual.
These two deliverances are irreconcilable. A Pre-
mier who says he will improve and perpetuate the
leasehold pastoral tenure surely cannot retain in
his Cabinet a Land Minister who avows his wish
to abolish it. On the other hand, the latter can-
not, with any regard to consistency, retain office
under a chief who gives him such a slap m the
face.
The invariable “right-thinking person,”
signing himself “ Another Elector of Canterbury,”
writes to Sydney Telegraph declaring that
nothing but the abolition of payment of members
can ensure “a permanent return to prosperity.”
A number of other right-thinking persons strongly
corroborate this view. Now a “return to pro-
sperity ” implies that there was some former pro-
sperity to return to. When was it? Nobody
ever saw any prosperity in New South Wales
except when a big loan had just been floated and
Crown lands were being auctioned wholesale, bub
even that wasn’t prosperity—it was only drunken-
ness. The country was festive in those times
because it was receiving £2,000,000 a year of
borrowed money. Now it isn’t festive because
this inrush of cash has stopped and the interest
payments remain, but the blatant Fat Man pre-
tends to believe that the £35,000 a year or so
expended on payment of members is the sole
cause of the ruin.
The bone-grinders of Melb. City Council,
perhaps the most ignorant, gluttonous, and
callous-souled body in Australia, have accepted the
tender of a contractor who undertakes to supply
drivers, horses, and drays, at 6s. sd. oer day the
set ! The strenuous objections of Cr. levers, who
pointed out that this arrangement meant pauper
wages for the labourers, called forth all the
viciousness of the council. One member remarked
that “it was the’ duty of the Council to look
after the interests of the citizens.” “In a couple
of years,” he said, “the wage of a labourer will
not be 6s. or 7s. a day, but 3s. or 45.”
Hear the wheezy spoiler chuckle: •
We have done the worker brown,
And the lower class must knuckle
To their lords and leaders down.
Men are hungry, lean, and humble,
And their wives are weak and sick—
We are masters ; if they grumble
We may safely turn and kick.
In the street the black-browed father
Seeks the work that we can give,
And we’ve got the rascal, rather,
For his kith and kin must live.
Once he scorned with muttered thunder
Such a wage as we allow,
But starvation’s worked a wonder—
He is very grateful now !
For the citizens capacious
We are here to legislate,
And to work this city spacious
At the very cheapest rate.
If this principle were shaken
Wroth those citizens would be—
Nay, we cannot be mistaken,
For the citizens are we.
We would violate the standard
Of good business management.
If to workers’ wants we pandered,
And we raised the wage a cent.
There’s our proper price for labour,
’Tis the lowest rate at which
You can hire your hungry neighbour
To mend roads or dig a ditch.
If the worker who engages
Starves on all that he can earn,
At this natural rate of wages,
That’s the worker’s own concern.
We are actuated purely
By the only right we ken,
For the laws of heaven surely
Must be those of Business Men.


y
v
%
H
\i
V,
S'
>\
mN
“GRATEFUL RESULTS”
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennyslvania, U. S. A.
A Life of Suffering and Misery, without
Sleep, without Appetite, with Bowels al-
ways Out of Order.
Restored to Health by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Spring. 1 was grievously afflicted
with Biliousness and Laver Complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every morn-
ing, my tongue thickly coated, my breath was
offensive ; food distressed me, I suffered much
from headache, my skin was sallow, and my
bowels were always out of order. Sleep did
not refresh me, nor did the many remedies,
recommended do me any good. At last I com-
menced using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and my im-
provement began almost from the first dose. It
relieved the distress about my liver, regulated
my bowels, caused food to set well on my stomach,
cured mv headache, improved my complexion,
and restored my appetite. These unlocked for,
but grateful, results were accomplished by only-
two and a half bottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.”—
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, Altoona, Pa., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A,
Has cured others, will cure you*
\<P'
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
>
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX l
.FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer
.33ns ptt os>
eA **
Beware of imitations.
TRADE MARK;- MUSK DEER. '
í
CASCARA HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
Full directions.
All Chemists.
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of tho
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsules.
CAPSULES
• :
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS”
Velveteen
Rich and rare
new colours for
present wear.
♦♦♦♦♦
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK.
The World Kenowned
“ T OUIS” VELVETEEN has this in its favour,
I I besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “Louis” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-TJ-LS), and in no other way,
and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. /.
Ladies should reject all substitutes. j
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
ii'T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
I nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
H. d, MOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery
NEWEST DESIGNS, at Makers’ Prices, all Government Hall-marked, DIRECT from their HEAD ESTABLISHMENT, LONDON.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
Ladies’ 18-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 10.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
513.—G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 9/6.
Dit o Silver, 2 6
TGli
True
Lover’s
Knot
Brooch.
With Chann Lucky Bell.
614.—G.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, £1; 15-ct., £1 15.
-3
-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 15/6.
Ditto, Silver, 4/6.
i
The
New
Lucky
Bell.
516.—Brooch of unique design,
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 12,6.
IT j
518.-O.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, £1
385.-Suite Studs, G.11.M.
Very Stroup:,
9-ct. Gold, 12/6; 15-ct. £1 5.
Silver, 3s.
226. —Set G.H.M. Links,
9 ct. G 'M, 15/6 ;
15-ot., £1 10; Silver, 4 6.
The “ Nuptial ” Brooch.
505.-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, 13 3.
227.—Set Q.H.M. Links,
9 ct. Gold, 18/6;
15-c'.,£l 15; Silver, ss.
224 G.H.M. 15-ct.
Gold, 12/6; Silver, 2/6.
225.— Combination Pin and
Stud, Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Gold, £2.
The New Lucky Hells. Latest London Novelty.
756. G.H.M. O ct. Gold 5-Hell Bracelet, £2.‘
755.— 6.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 3 Bells, 7/6.
(V
506.-G.H M.
Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Brooch,
£1 15.
■ .
757.-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-ct. ditto £4 10.
/Li
TO
vni
IPST
UWGqQ
“against
Fascination.’
Ebgant Brooch, New Design.
G. H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 18 6 : Silver, 5 6.
ì
75S.—G
.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £1 10.
Ditto Silver, 10 6.
-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, Set with Fine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
i
106.—Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 15; Silver, 15 6.
107. Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6: 15-ot. £5 17 6; Silver, 13 6
m
H
Ifu
il
m
1
í
35. -Single Stone Diamond
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10s
Special Value.
36. —Ladies’ 5-si. Diamond
18 ct. Gold Ring, 4.5 5.
32.—18-ct. Gold Ritisr,
Diamond, 2 KuLi> s, £2.
33 —lB-ct. Gold Ring,
7 Diamond*, 2 S'ipniliros,
14 10.
25.—18-ct. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/
18-cf. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, cut hole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
5-ct. Gold Earrings, 15/6.
50.—Electro • Silver Break-
fast Cruet and Spoons, 10/6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
601.—G.H.M. Stiver Match Box, 11 6.
A size smaller, 8 6.
G.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, t'2 10.
G.H.M. 15 ct. GoM Brooch, hnndsrmf
design, Bimncnti Centre, ±S 5.
SOVEREIGN
m
PUIJSE.
605 G.H.M. Silver, 96. Plain cliitn, 8 6
G.H.M. Oct. Gold, engiavid. £2 10.
521.—Elesrant- Bow Brooch.
G.H.M. 9-ct, 17 6; 15-ct., £1 10
Silver, 5 -.
51.—Magnificent Oak and S'lver Electro-
Mounted Liquor Frame, ;j Fine c u |
Botllis (11 inches long, 13 high), £3 10
Delivered Free, 2 0 extra.
NOTE.—The Lett i'> G.11..M. si and for ‘‘Government Hall Marked.” Each Article being
Add to Remittance for I’cst and Register; One Article, 6d.; Two, 9d.; Three, Is.; Six, Is. 6d.
We despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address—
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, NS W.
The Duchess’s Daughter-in-law.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
After the Tanini had sighted the North
Cape light, “the Duchess” became “rortier”
than ever, and swelled so visibly that the Major,
the second-saloon humourist, expressed concern
for her bodice-buttons. She had earned her title
of “the Duchess” early in the voyage, had
accepted it tacitly and acted up to its implied
altitude.
Madame Zernini—a songstress of doubtful re-
pute, and with the dimensions of a rnoa —who
might otherwise have enjoyed some small sway,
was depressed at the Duchess’s matter-of-course
authority. Madame herself was chiefly remarkable
for “ dressing” for the ship’s concerts, her “dress-
ing ” consisting of. getting squeezed and rammed
down into a black-lace dress, with a bodice whose
author had written on his plan “To be continued,”
but had forgotten to continue. When dressed,
Madame was so perilously bosom-logged that—
well, I dare not tell the story of that embarrassing
calamity.
Nobody knew Madame Zernini’s mission to
Maoriland. Everybody knew the Duchess’s.
She was going to transplant her dead son’s wife
and child from Auckland to England. And, in
her expansively inferential way, everybody knew
somehow that the Duchess’s son had owned Maori-
land, or invented it, or advised the Almighty
about it, or was somehow altogether responsible
for it. Also that her daughter-in-law was quite a
personage there —a Governor’s chambermaid, an
A.D.C.’s nurse, or something equally rare. So
that the Duchess’s “ rortiness ” was regarded as a
natural concomitant of her position, a just and
righteous privilege.
• • •
There was “a man from Auckland” on
board.
One night, he and Madame Zernini had quite a
confidential chat on the poop-deck.
From that hour, Madame Zernini’s spirits arose
and she became painfully deferential to the
Duchess.
• # *
One fine summer morning the Tanini
slipped through between Tiri-tiri and the main-
land, giving the North Shore its signals a couple
of hours ere the boat was swung up to
Auckland wharf. Consequently, a large crowd
had assembled to welcome the incoming steamer,
whose passengers gathered on the poop to return
the gaze of the people ashore.
The Duchess was audibly wondering at hazard
which of the prettiest and most stylish girls to be
seen was her daughter-in-law.
The gangway was put down and an interchange
ashore and aboard took place.
The man from Auckland whispered to Madame
Zernini, who nodded, laughed, and disappeared.
* # *
“ I am so disappointed,” clacked the Duchess to
her special court, “ that my dear daughter has not
come to meet the boat.”
“Allow me to present to you your grandson,
my lady,” said a voice triumphantly.
It was Madame Zernini, who was dragging
along an unwilling, sallow-skinned lad, while a
Maori woman, clad in a rainbow costume, waddled
smilingly behind.
The Duchess addressed the latter :
“Is this Mr. Duke’s boy?”
“Yes.”
“And you, I suppose, are the child’s nurse?
Where is his mother?”
“Me his mother. Me Mrs. Duke. Me your
son wife, and this lie child.”
The ship there and then sank at her moorings—
for the Duchess.
THE GOAPIR.
Since his election Pope Leo has not crossed
the threshold of the Vatican.
An old lady stopped York and “ May ” in
the street a few days before the wedding and
tendered a brown-paper parcel containing a patch-
work quilt for “ Mrs. York,” and a pair of worsted
stockings for hubby.
Oolemane k Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
The Jesuits are to get back to Germany,
after 21 years’ expulsion, dating from when Bis-
marck fought the Pope. Their restoration is
political, and is the price of Ultramontane support
of the Army Bill. In other words, religion is
prepared to serve its imaginary ends by cut-
throatery.
M undid Miner (Q.) has a column headed
“ Movements of Aristocracy,” Sample item :
Mr. Walter Hooker arrived in town last Saturday, per
oxen conveyance, and looks well after his sojourn in the
city of stink and Separation.
Marmaduke Wood, celebrated for his con-
nection with the famous Belle Bilton case, was
leading spirit in a ball given in Chicago last
Queen’s Birthnight. He started with a speech in
which he volunteered the assertion that Queen
Victoria was 74 years old on that day, and that
any man in the party who refused to consume
74 drinks would demonstrate his unworthiness of
the name of Englishman.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
The promoters of The Columbian Land
Distribution are plucky people who, after ex-
pending a good deal of capital in putting the
machinery of their venture into working order,
received a sudden check by the fact of so many
shareholders’ remittances being drawn on banks
which had stopped payment. To allow things
financial to mend, as they at present show un-
doubted signs of doing, it has been decided
to extend the closing of the ballot until November.
By that time it is confidently expected that
sufficient shares will be taken up to ensure a
successful ballot and in any case a pro rata draw-
ing will then take place. Further details in our
advertising columns.
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to be signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
A purgative medicine should possess tonic and
curative, as well as cathartic properties. This
combination of ingredients may be found in
Ayer’s Pills. They strengthen and stimulate the
bowels, causing natural action.


Don’t fish for sharks in a rain-barrel
Gut print your advertisement where it will be seen. “In
my travels in Australia I found The Bulletin every-
where, and everywhere found it powerful,” wrote David
Christie Murray in the London Contemporary Review.
That is true. The universality of The Bulletin's circula-
tion in Australasia is the envy of all ether papers. In and
heyond Australia, The Bulletin, now in'its fourteenth
year of issue, is the most popular, best-known, best-
quoted, and most widely and numerously circulated of all
Australasian publications.
/
/
/
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
Tie most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, HE TIC ATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”— Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds—
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
'mmm.
etc. a a*
''yfcfWS&t -
FOR ITCHING. ECZEMA
ROUGHNESS A SKIN 1
oo n i| London, Paris&NewV
°A <T~ eA'“'J
ROADcjo LoNOON.N.W.cXjr)
For Toilet, Nursery&?
SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
A SANITARY, SOLUBLE ROSE-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes—in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN
BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
i
EHS
CE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
A sic for Lea & Perrtns’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export t>y the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <£ Plnckwell, London, s•<?.,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents; Messrs. VIRGOE, SON an!> CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively tire Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS “HARLENE
\WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
AFTER Udß
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned TT* F> F> U ¥ fA WT IT* O O From whatever
Remedy a v/ A A 3 .t\. JL*4 JLr AM Lu )I3 i>3 cat/se arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and Mousiacliios it has never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoi*iixg Gvey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
oooooo
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World'
Bar W one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the production of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you.'
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.—There ia
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taker
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov
mg all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day aftei
meals diluted with same quantity of water. Foi
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E, Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of youi
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
_ “I, George Hbwett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“ (Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Baron Berzilius’— =—
-Bucliu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting i<
when deranged, and restores healthy evacualims in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find thrsj Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D. —It is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
i eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’P WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute
EDWARD “ROW & CO.,
Sydney.
Westward [?]!
( FOR THE BULLETIN .)
There’s a damper in the ashes, tea and sugar in
the bags,
There’s whips of feed and shelter on the sandndge
for the nags,
There's gidya wood about us and water close at
hand,
And just one bottle left yet of the good Glenlivet
brand.
There are chops upon the embers, which same are
close-up done,
From as fine a four-tooth wether as there is on
Crossbred’s run ;
’Twas a proverb on the Darling, the truth of wdiich
I hold :
“ That mutton’s aye the sweetest which was never
bought nor sold.”
Out of fifty thousand wethers surely Crossbred
shouldn’t miss
A sheep or so to travellers —faith, ’tis dainty
mutton, this—
Let’s drink a nip to Crossbred ; ah, yon drain it
with a grin,
Then shove along the billy, mate, and, squatted,
let’s wade in.
The night’s a trifle chilly, and the stars are very
bright,
A heavy dew is falling, but the fly is rigged
aright;
You may rest your bones till morning, then if you
chance to wake,
Give me a call about the time that daylight start
to break.
We may not camp to-morrow, for we’ve many a
mile to go,
Ere we turn our horses’ heads round to make
tracks for down below.
There’s many a water-course to cross, and many a
black-soil plain,
And many a mile of mulga-ridge ere we get back
again.
That time five moons shall wax and wane we’ll
finish up the work,
Have the bullocks o’er the border and truck ’em
down from Bourke,
And when they’re sold at Homebush, and the
agents settle up,
Sing hey ! a spell in Sydney town and Melbourne
for the “ Cup,”
THE BREAKER.
At a recent out-back N.S.W. sessions, in
the case of a man charged with assault and, sub-
sequent perjury, prisoner’s counsel urged that he
was deserving of acquittal, on the ground of his
exemplary character, “ he having been the first
‘free-labourer’ to take work against the unionists.”
Y erdict—guilty.
A man tried to get for Chicago Fair exhibit
50 of the world’s handsomest women. Of the
number wanted he could get but 12. The most
beautiful were an English girl and a French one.
The former drank like a fish; the latter had a
fiend’s temper. Moral .
The Bulletin is told that an Austra-
lian Bishop, who owns considerable house-pro-
perty in a mining town, was interviewed during a
recent strike by a tenant who was in arrears and
asked for time. The Bishop consented, but next
morning the well-known “ seedy-looking person ”
entered into possession in the good old-fashioned
way. Subsequent search proved that the Bishop
had departed from the town a couple of hours
previously.
A verse from Kipling’s- latest poem, “ The
Merchantman ”
New we have come to' youward-
To walk beneath the trees,
And see the folk that live on land'
And ride in carriages.'
Oh, sure they must be silly gulls-
That do with pains desire
To build a house that cannot move'
Of sticks and bricks and mire.
Ye gods I-
“ Steady your leaders, Australia ! In
floods and droughts, sheep and kangaroos, oars-
men and prize-fighters, ballot laws and land
registration methods, public borrowing and bank
failures, you come very near Ifeading the worldl
For an out-of-the-way, youthful, and not very
populous country, it is cutting a very large and
not particularly graceful figure in the affairs of to-
day.”—Man op the World.
Colemane & Sons’ Vio. Ointment is-marvellous;
£ £ Smith, “ representative of Australia,”
at the Imperial Marine Store, has another griev-
ance ; he was not permitted to have a select com-
pany of singers to chant “God Bless the Prince
of Wales,” as Tummy passed through the courts-
on the night of the reception. It was pointed out
to the Smith that there was no precedent for such l
a thing, but, as he resolutely observes, “pre-
cedents have to be created sometime or another”
The good apothecary straight
To dear Old England went,
Inspired by ambition great
To make a precedei t.
True loyalists their for Wales
Had shown in manners novel,
But he’d eclipse all former tales
With an ecstatic grovel.
Through calm and storm whilst on the sea
He pondered o’er the freak—
He’d break the record and he’d be
A crawler (juite unique.
Some men might lick the royal shoe,
A more artistic mode he
Must try, and raise a grand shivoo,
And pose as leading toady.
A choir of singers in the loft
He’d fix amongst the bales,
To sing in voices sweet and soft
“ God bless the Prince of Wales,"
So that when Tummy waddled by
He’d hear and every Tory
That sweet refrain from up on high—
His pi’aises sung in glory.
The bosses of the “ Institoot ”
They wouldn’t hear of it—•
Poor L.L. went upon a toot,
And also had a fit.
Smith’s even with the scheming elves
By whom his wish was spited :
The plan they wished to steal themselves—-
He's had it copyrighted.


Deafness Completely Cured I Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds, l ull
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AUKAI.
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.VV.
The Mammoth Distribution of Property
amongst the Shareholders in
The Mutual Investment
Building Society,
Hr isbane, Q aeensland.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament,
Proposed Issue of 85,500 Shares of £L xwh,
gp- 2781 PRIZES, valued at £85,500.
As per Schedule at Society’s Office.
EACH SHAREHOLDER for every Share held by him
will have 18 SEPARATE CHANCES, or a possibility ot
Winning Prizes to the value of £48,153 for £l.
£1 MAY SECURE £48,153 WORTH.
First Prize, £20,000,
Prospectus.
Worth of
Freehold Property,
—AND—
1 PRIZE £20,000
1 „ 6,500
1 „ 6,000
1 „ 5,000
1 .. 2,500
1 2,200
ì
ì
Ist PRIZE. —Those magnificent Chambers, situate
corner CRKEK and ELIZABETH STREETS, BRISBANE,
close to General Post Office and Queensland National
Bank lately occupied by the Royal Bank of Queensland,
Limited, at a rental of ATOM per annum.
PAYMENT of the sum of £1 will secure ONE SHARE
in the Society, upon which there will he no further liability.
The. DRAWING will he by Ballot, according to rules,
and will tike place not later than NOVEMBER, 1803.
TRANSFERS will be handed to successful shareholders
immediately after the ballot, free of all rates, taxes,
mortgages and any deduction whatsoever.
INTENDING *IIAKEHOLOER* are invited to
make the fullest inquiry as to the value of the properties
for distribution. ... „ . . . ,
Application for Shares in the Society must be
made to the SECRETARY, 186 Queen-street, Brisbane;
or T, A. BOND, Broker, Queen-street, Brisbane ; or to
esre -1. M. rigs* Oeorge-street, Sydney, front whom
»«v (mibn wsy gtrtfttaefh
Itching Skin Humors
Torturing, Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
•is '■
vx
///
NS
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospitals, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and ini-
lalcd surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cl uaJKA
Soap, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased sun aces.
Cuticuka Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. Hence, the
Cuticuka Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp,and blood, vuth loss ot hair.
to Cuke Diseases of the Skin and Blood" 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 5° b'.us-
tratious. 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticuka K esolvent.
Cuticuka Remedies are sold throughout the world. 1 nee, Cuticura ; 50c., Cuiicura > a ,
2-c.; Cuticuka Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Core n, Boston, U. S. A.
Pimply Skin
red, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails
are prevented and cured by Outicura SOtip, iu*
comparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps-
The only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin, and simple humors of infants.
aw
Cl
'yr head
B.MOCNTCASTLE&SPHs
OIR£CT IMPORTERS & MANO'FACtORERS
of H.AT6 & C^ p 5
í
í
rm
i
î
i
ï
i
i
i
• r-*
ì
i
i
ì
. I.'.
í
î
ï
ĩ
ī
ĭį
i
ii
i
ì
(00K5EY& [VS [ELEBRMED [OjiDON j|Al3
iVhen ordering number of' hoi wii) &g suCllcicnl
“Lrger” Tobacco.
“ Leger” Tobacco.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
“LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O
divided
£5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER. 1893.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESSI
Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893*
DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING I
“ LEGER ” has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success “L EGEB . the manufacturer's have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to HITY POUNDS.
£5O
£5O
£5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows ;
te* «.ituw»
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS
£l5
10
7
Coiimetiiion closes December 17, 1893. Tickets must be sent in not later than December 21, 1893.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address instill. Each parcel will be opened on December 23, 1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, a
the pl smoke« It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Trj it, and judge for yoursehes. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, but of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. 3d. and often
Is. 6d. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for the “ Leger ” Tobacco Price, Is. per Block.
lieger ” lxa<s cauglit
on I
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week's-supply 25 per cent, cheaper.
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised bv the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY,
Km*!.tvs R 1 iMHXiiS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
ENAMELLED <'A I!I NET
POUT I! A ITS
The Mew Panel Portrait,
Size, !)x 7 in.,
/ ,),v. !>(>/ I\.
A (ITA KM TNG PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
6
5 -
RELIEF FROM GOUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
0™
î
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CU EGS COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 id. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. KAYHAN & CO.,
16, Albemarle Street, tendon, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnmig& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
j/eve*
i^ QL) (^R?NDING
Jr Pleasure T 0 u
Pleasure to use
ï
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Seizors excel-
lent.”
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUNO
RAZOR
MILWARD’S
i
Y%
SHARPS
HROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARDI.NI
emmltir
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d,
M BEETHAM&SON, Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
AND
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing
EOR WINTER COMEORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated UashTitifcablo Merino
Singlets and Pants just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (i sleeves), 7s. 6d.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 78. (id.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and include in' Postal Order or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address-
Sole Aoeeisl
3BASUU k MyTCH, 75 ftT9IIS¥»
The system of payment of members is
theoretically perfect, but it has worked badly in
practice, says the bogus - Democratic N.S.W.
Ministerial organ, Australian Star. Up-end the
Kosition. “The system of unpaid members is
eory bad, and in practice corrupt.” Let us
stick to Democratic ideals.
Under the recent N.S.W. Electoral Act—
as Jawbone Neild, M L. A., points out in Sydney
Telegraph —the Commissioners appointed to fix
the boundaries of the new electorates must pre-
sent their report to Parliament by 13th Septem-
ber, provided the House is then sitting. If it
isn’t sitting at that date the report is to pre-
sented within seven days after its meeting. Then
the scheme is to be considered and sanctioned by
Parliament, the electoral lists compiled and
revised, and the electoral rights forwarded to
voters before the end of the year. If the work
isn’t done by the end of the year the
Bill apparently lapses as completely as if it
had never been. Considering Dibbs’ new
National Ass attitude, and considering also that
the Freetraders have always had their strength in
the great plural-voting districts, there is just a
chance that the House will greet the scheme, when
it comes up, with the warmest approval, and dis-
cuss it so enthusiastically, and so cordially, and
with such a rush of approbation for principles but
so much anxiety about particulars, that it will be
talked out in the end. The Democratic party
must keep both eyes fixed on this danger, and
shut down violently on all useless debate.
Last Friday the British House of Commons
broke into a historic row, and there were riotous
times among the gentlemen of England. The
House had previously been in an aggravated
mood, and the members were calling each other
“ Judas,” and “ Liar,” and “ Old Dog Tray,” and
other language calculated to cause a breach of the
peace. Then a Liberal member went over to
speak to a Conservative member, and one of the
gentlemen of England seized him by the neck
while another grabbed his feet, and he was
slung out with violence. The rest was a
general football scrum. When the riot was over
it was found that one bench had been wrecked,
sundry members had had their hands stamped
upon while going about on all fours, the floor of
the House was littered with battered hats, torn
vests, and shirt-collars, broken jewellery, and
wrenched-off coat tails, hair, ears, small change and
neckties. The gentlemen of England then hauled
off to repair damages, or were forced to let go
their bite by the sergeant-at-arms —the cable isn’t
very explicit on this point; and the rest of the
sitting passed off in peace, except that the fine
old aristocracy insisted on yelling “Old Dog
Tray ” at Gladstone. After this The Bulletin
hopes to hear nothing more for a week or two
about the dignity of unpaid Parliaments in
general, and the surpassing dignity unpaid
British Parliament in particular. Even Crick
and Haynes only fight in the lobby.


i
ì
ABSOLUTELY
PUKE,
THEREFORE THE REST.
1
II
m
VL
m
m
'SSSS*
s'SS//.
m
w/m
W&
m
m
Uty
m
5852
Coco^
m
%
v.w
%
The Spectre Q.C.
( FOR THE BULLETIN )
It was very hot, and the dingy, stuffy court-rooms
looked even dingier and stuffier than usual. It
Was a divorce-sitting, and the Court was insuffer-
ably crowded as it always is in divorce-sittings.
There were the barristers ill their wigs looking
important; black - trim - bodiced women,
about to face the music as respondents ; here and
there a handsome, good-for-nothing, shifty-eyed
dandy, about to “perform” as co-respondent;
there was the inevitable parson on the same
errand, with the usual sprinkling of reporters,
briefless barristers, and baldheads who always roll
hp to this kind of entertainment. One ease was
jiist finishing, and when it was concluded and the
bustle made by the lawyers and parties engaged
in It leaking the rdom had subsided, the clerk
balled the next ease : “ Hicks v. Hicks 1”
One df the barristers at the table, Mr. Sharp,
Q. 0., lose—a stout, Ted-faced man With a keetl
eye and sandy whiskers. “ If yout Honor pleases,
I appear with my friend Mr. Smithers for the
petitioned.” Mr. Smithers being indicated to the
Court bowed familiarly—a rising junior with a
projecting chin and a high forehead.
“Any appearance for the respondent?” en-
quired the clerk.
No one answered.
“Any appearance on behalf of William Free-
man, co-respondent?”
Again no answer.
“Any appearance dn behalf df Warburton
Dudley, co-respondent?”
“That co-respondent is dead, if your Honor
pleases*’' said Mr. Sharp, Q.C.
“Even so,” replied the Judge, “he must be
called. Every co-respondent, whether dead or
alive, must be called. Have you an order to dis-
pense with service on him ?”
But* before Sharp, Q.C.* could reply, a strange
thing took place. Though the court-door re-
mained closed, a procession of barristers advanced
to the lawyers’ table. At least, they looked like
barristers and wore wigs, but there was a shadowy,
unreal look about them ; they were clearly not
of the earth. More and more they poured in, and
though there were certainly thousands of them,
the court did not seem crowded. They appeared
to occupy no room, although each man was clear
and distinct to the vision of all present. Then,
too, among them were men of all climes and all
nations —aye, and of all periods. There was an
old grey-bearded man clad in long, sweeping,
Oriental robes that spoke of the earliest times of
history. There were black men, yellow men,
Egyptians, Turks, Russians, Indians. With them
came a wigless fraternity, attorneys and their
clerks. At the tail of this singular procession was
a modern dandy, smirking, and looking super-
ciliously round the court
“Good God!” said Sharp,’ Q.C., in an under-
tone, “ that’s Warburton Dudley.”
The leader of this spectral band advanced to the
table, and, bowing to the Judge, remarked, “ If
your Honor pleases, I appear with my learned
friends” (and here the whole ghostly crew bowed
to the court) “for the deceased co-respondent,
Warburton Dudley,” whereupon the individual
thus indicated bowed to the court.
The Judge was thunderstruck. “ It has been
suggested to the court that Warburton Dudley is
dead,” he gasped.
“So he is dead,” replied the Spectre Q.C., with
a confident air. “ In fact, we’re all dead. But as
Warburton Dudley, though dead, is cited to
appear, we put the case in the hands of such of the
profession as are Down Below ” (here he pointed
to the ground), “and we have undertaken his
defence. It created some Considerable interest
Down There.”
“But do I understand,” said the Judge, “that
you and all these Oriental and other gentlemen
nave come back from the—the—Lawyers’ Here-
after to defend this case? Are there so many of
you Down There?” and he shuddered slightly.
“ Many !” replied the phantom. “ Why, all the
lawyers go there. We’ve got attorneys and special
pleaders, and Q.C’s. —yes, and Judges, too —lots
of ’em.”
His Honor turned visibly pale,
“ As I was about to explain to your Honor, this
case caused much talk Below. How many counsel
had we at that consultation ?” he asked of a grisly
phantom of an attorney who was busily sorting
out a number of odd-looking books.
“ How should I know ?” snappishly responded
the attorney. “ Millions, I should say. And
they all grumbled because the case wasn’t worked
up properly, and the fees wererl’t high enough.
They always do.”
“ Yes, your Honor,” continued the Q.C., “there
must have been millions, not couhting attorneys
and their clerks. Besides, we have the advantage
of having pretty well all the lawyers that have
ever lived, so our information as to cases goes a
long way back. And I hope to be able to con-
vince your Honor, notwithstanding the ability of
Iny learned friends on the other side (here he
bowed to Sharp, Q.C., who nervously returned the
compliment) that our client should be exonerated
from further appearance in the suit ”
“And allowed his costs,” interjected the phan-
tom attorney.
“Yes, and allowed his costs,” went on the
Spectre Q.C.; “ and I will cite cases in support of
that contention. I argued the same point in a
case in the court Below. Your Honor may not
know, but when we get a new batch of criminals
down, all the lawyers get together, and a good fire
is raked up, and we try them over again. ‘Nisi
Fryus sittings’ it is called.” Here the crowd
laughed a hollow, spectral laugh. “However,
eternity is passing away, and we had better get to
business. As already intimated, we appear for the
co-respondent.”
“I rise,” said Sharp, Q.C., who had at length
collected his faculties, “I rise to object to these
gentlemen appearing on the short ground that they
are dead.”
“ How do you meet that objection, Mr. Spectre?”
said the Judge.
“Very easily, please your Honor,” replied the
Spectre. “Grant we are dead; then we are
spirits—ghosts, if you like. And what is a ghost
for except to appear ? Ghosts always appear, they
never exist. Therefore we can ‘ appear ’ for this
co-respondent. We don’t ask to exist for him.”
This was unanswerable, and the ease was
begun by calling Mrs. Hicks. That lady, who
was alleged to have been unfaithful to her husband
was proceeding to the box when she suddenly
gave a scream, fainted, and was carried out in
strong convulsions.
“Iseed him a winkin’ at her,” said a boy in
court, indicating the ghostly co-respondent, Mr.
Warburton Dudley.
“I admit,” said the spectre-counsel, “that it
is apt to discompose any woman to have a
dead alleged lover come back and wink at
her, but her evidence will not be neces-
sary for the purposes of my case. I propose,
your Honor,” said the Spectre* “to take a pre-
liminary objection, in support of which I will cite
a case that is no doubt familiar to your Honor*
It is the first reported divorce case* I allude to
the well-known case of Potiphar v. Potiphar:
Joseph co-respondent*” Here he turned to a
noble-looking, olive-skinned man, clad in flowing
robes, and evidently an Egyptian lawyer : “Where
is that sun-dried report of yours?”
A book was handed to him*
“The case is reported, your Honor, in 9
Raineses and Ormuz, page 204. My learned friend
here, who was alive at the time ” —indicating the
Egyptian, who bowed profoundly—“was counsel
in the case and perfectly remembers the circum-
stances.”
The Judge looked hopelessly at him. “Where
did you say the case was reported?”
“In 9 Raineses and Ormuz,” said the Spectre.
“We haven’t trot that report ih the Supreme
Court library,” said the Judge. “But it might
be reported in Tarleton. Does anyone know ?”
Nobody knew. “ It doesn't matter,” said the
spectre. “ I have the report here. My Egyptian
friend can explain the writing, which is somewhat
curious. The facts of the case, so far as they are
material, are that this co-respondent, Joseph, who
is described aS an Isratdite —— ”
“That was only giving him his Jew,” inter-
rupted Sharp, Q.C., who was recovering his self-
confidence.
“ It is-real-light on the subject, anyhow,” said
the Spectre.
“This Joseph, 1 say, was sworn to have been
seen in Mrs. Potiphar’s room. Potiphar there-
upon sued for a divorce. Joseph set up the plea
that Mrs. Potiphar was the guilty party. It was
decided —I am now reading,” said the Spectre,
impressively, “from the judgment of Pharaoh,
Chief Justice, a very able lawyer—that this
amounted to no defence, and the co-respondent
was cast in damages and imprisoned. Here is the
report.” And he handed to his Honor a papyrus
manuscript.
The Judge scanned it for a while, and then he
said ; “ This is not a law-report; this is a picture-
book. There’s nothing here about Pharoah, or
Potiphar either ; nothing but pictures.”
The Egyptian ai'ose, smiling suavely. “ He
can explain,” said the spectre Q.C. “ He knows
all about it.”
“ Well, to begin with,” said the Judge, “ Here
is a picture of a female, in profile, holding the end
of the garment of a figure running away.”
“That,” said the Egyptian, “is the statement
of the matter at issue between the parties. That
symbolises the allegation of the petitioner, Mr.
Potiphar, and the explanation given by Joseph.”
“I see,” said the Judge ; “and now what’s
this ? The next thing is a picture of a crocodile.
I suppose if the last was the allegation this is the
allegator.”
The court, as in duty bound, was convulsed with
laughter.
The Egyptian with a weird, unearthly smile
upon his grave face replied : “No, your Honor,
that figure symbolises the opinion the court formed
of Joseph ; that is the summing up, as it were.”
“ Oli, ” said the Judge, “ it must be a very handy
way of reporting when you can put all the sum-
ming up into one figure.”
“Now, after the summing up,” continued the
Judge, “ there is a picture of a big pile of money
and a small pile of money. What does that
mean ? ”
“ The small pile,” said the Egyptian, “is the
damages that Joseph was decreed to pay Poti-
phar.”
“ And what is the big pile ? ” said the Judge.
“That is the amount of costs he had to pay,”
said the Egyptian.
“And what’s this—a flat-headed man with one
eye scruffing along a man who is holding out both
arms in front of him ? ”
“Joseph being taken to gaol because he couldn’t
pay the costs,” was the ready response.
“And this? —a crow sitting on a man and digging
his liver out.”
“That is Potiphar’s attorney, making him
bankrupt because he didn’t pay his costs. Your
Honor will find that nearly all the cases end
with that symbol.”
“Very interesting,” said the Judge; “I must
advocate some such system here. It would save a
lot of time. But I don’t see how this case, even
if I admitted its authenticity, helps yofir client in
any way.”
Here an interruption occurred. It has been
mentioned that it was a very hot day ; but after
the spectres came in it had grown a thousand
times hotter. The heat was fearful. At last a
smothered voice was heard in the croWd of spectre
counsel: “ It’s d d cold. Can’t we have the
window up?”
“ Cold? ” said Sharp, Q. 0., who was nearly melt-
ing. “Cold! It must be pretty hot where you came
from.”
“Ho !” said the counsel, “ I guess it is I myself
have a particularly hot corner, because in life I
was renowned for taking fees for work I never
did.”
Sharp, Q.O.* said nothing, but turned ghastly
pale, notwithstanding the heat. He had occa-
sionally taken fees for work he never did.
The court resumed. “How does this case help
you ?”
“I propose to show,” said the Spectre Q.C.,
“ that that case was afterwards overruled and the
co-respondent, Joseph, liberated on a point
reserved at the trial. Your Honour will find all
the circumstances fully gone into in the report in
this book. You will see several pictures there,
such as a man being put into a hole in the ground.
Joseph was on one occasion put by his relatives in
the pit.”
“That was because they did not want him in
the family circle,” said the Judge. The crowd
again laughed.
“Well,” continued the spectre, “after many
vicissitudes he got into gaol, where he found
Pharaoh’s chief baker, who had been put there for
making heavy bread : and the baker dreamt that
the crows came and ate the bread.”
“ What raven lunatics they must have been !”
said Mr. Smithers.
“They had no caws to crow afterwards,” said
the Spectre; “ Your Honor will see the whole
purport of the case from that report.”
“Ha ! yes,” said the Judge; “I see that it ends
up with the usual simile, the crow and his victim.”
“Yes,” said the spectre, “and the decision I
have cited has been followed in two very impor-
tant later cases. I allude to ‘iTriah v. Uriah,’
David co-respondent, reported in 9 Abednego; and
the case of Solomon v, Solomon and others, where
there were upwards of a thousand co-respondents,
and I hope to convince the Court.”
Here the Q.C. faltered. It had been noticed
that his voice had been growing visibly weaker af
he went on.
“It’s fearfully cold, your Honor,” he muttered.(
“ Would your Honor mind allowing us to have a


A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
(Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.')
“The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears* Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
Cnd the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps.
H
m
w
&
t
fire?”
“If you wish it,” replied the Judge.
A fire was accordingly made, and the Q. 0., to
the horror of the Court, went over and deliberately
sat in it. The rest of the jostling, unruly spectre
crew surged over towards it and began to pull out
the coals and fling them at one another. Sharp,
Q.C., and Mr. Smithers fled the scene in terror.
Seeing this, the Spectre said that he would not
occupy the time of the Court further, but would
at once ask tliat Warburton Dudley be discharged
from the suit and allowed his costs. As no one
was there to oppose, the .1 udge had no option but
to make the order. And the gentlemen of the
long robe—client, attorneys, Egyptian, and all-
filed in a long procession to the door. Here the
Spectre halted for a moment and, addressing the
Judge, said, “ Well, I had hoped to see more of
Mr. Sharp, but all in good time, and when your
Honor and I next meet I can finish my argument.
Till then, au revoir. We must return to our
trials Below.”
And the shadowy crowd melted away, leaving
an odour of sulphur that perfumed the Court for a
month.
To a Devil-doctor.
( FOR THE BULLETIN )
You shall not stain my child’s white soul
With horrors of “ Hell ” and ‘‘Devil,”
Nor weight the wings of her spirit down
To your Calvinistic level.
Let the lily soul drink life and light
From a clear and sunlit well;
Quench not its bloom, nor its beauty blight,
With your vitriol-pump of “Hell.”
My child shall behold in earth and sky,
And in all Creation broad,
No ghastly print of a Devil’s hoof,
But the big bright hand of God,
She shall laugh by day in the golden sun,
And when his beams are sped,
Her sleep shall be fanned by angel wings—
Not blasted by phantoms dread.
In the music of birds and laughing brooks
Let her learn and love God’s law;
Not one sweet string of Nature’s harp
Shall be jarred by your “ Devil’s ” claw.
And then, when the sand of life is run,
And her Maker recalls her breath,
She will look with a smile in her father’s face,
And welcome a friend in Death.
As a slumb’ring flower let her eyelids close,
While over her stainless breast
She folds white death as a sleeping-robe,
And sinks to her dreamless rest.
J.M.W.
“ Man does not live by bread alone, but
by catchwords.” —Stevenson.
The big Sydney brewers have been hard
hit by the action of the licensing authorities in
closing so many low-class houses. The publican’s
business is a poor game now in Sydney, despite
the marvellous facilities for buying cheap uncus-
tomed grog made in city cellars. The publican is
as completely under the thumb of the brewer as is
the average retail chemist under that of his whole-
sale house.
His Colonial Oath.
( FOR THE BULLETIN )
I lately met an old schoolmate of mine up-
country. He was much changed. He was tall
and lank, and had the most hideous, bristly red
beard I ever saw. He was working on his father’s
farm. He shook hands, looked anywhere but in
my face—and said nothing. Presently I remarked
at a venture:
“So poor old Mr. 8., the schoolmaster, is dead.”
“ My oath !” he replied.
“ He was a good old sort.”
“ My oath i”
“Time goes by pretty quick, doesn’t it?”
His oath (colonial)..
“Poor old Mr. B. died awfully sudden, didn’t
he?”-
He looked up the hill, and said : “ My oath !”
Then he added ; “ My (blanky) oath !”
I thought, perhaps, my city rig or manner dis-
pleased him, sd t stitek iriy Hands ill my pockets,
spat, and said, td set him at his ease: “Its
blanky hot to-day. I don’t ktldvtf how ydd blanky
blanks stand such blank weather ! It’s blanky
i well hot enough to roast a crivrtsdrt carnal bullock ;
ain’t it ? ” Then I took out a flake of tobacco, bit
off a quarter, and pretended to chew. He replied :
“ My oath.”
The conversation flagged here. But presently,
to my great surprise, he came to the rescue with :
“ He finished me, yer know.”
‘‘Finished? How? Who?”
He looked down towards the river, thought (if
he did think), and said : “ Finished me edyerca-
tion, yer know.”
“ Oh ! you mean Mr. B. ? ”
“My oath—he finished me first-rate.”
“ He turned out a good many scholars, didn’t
he?”
“My oath. I’m thinkin’ about going down to
the trainin’-school.”
“ You ought to—l would if I were you.”
“ My oath.”
“ Those were good old times,” I hazarded, “ you
remember the old bark school ?’*
He looked away across the siding, and was
evidently getting uneasy. He shifted about, and
said:
“Well, I must be goin’.
“ I suppose you’re pretty busy now ?”
“Mv oath. So long.”
“ Well, good-bye. We must have a yarn some
day.”
“My oath.”
He got away as quickly as he could.
I wonder whether he was changed, after all! or,
was it I ? A man does seem to get out of touch
with the bush after living in cities for eight or ten
years.
Henry LAWSON.
The Victorian Hansard reporters are
allowed to sit at the Speaker’s table, because they
have grown deaf, listening to Parliamentary ora-
tions. Nature’s revenge is inexorable.
Sydney D.T. lately published a map of
the island of Updlu, entitled “The Island of
Samoa.” Geography seems to be one of the Tele-
graph's weak points. As a matter of fact, there
are seven islands in the Navigators’ Group, of
which Savaii is the largest. Upolu is second in
size. But when it is remembered that the D.T.
talked about the Victoria going down off Sicily,
a seaport on the coast of Syria, one does not
wonder much.
th the seamen’s cases heard recently at
Sydney, attorney M Laughlin, in defending the
sailors on strike, casually alluded to the fearful
Induction of the men’s wages. “ Well,” chipped
in Stipendiary Deloh'ery, the presiding magis-
trate, “you can’t expect the owners to run their
ships at a loss, can you ? ” Later on, allusion being
made to the,owners having refused conference
with the men, he interjected—“ No, conference
was refused with the union, not with the men ; ” a
remark which evinced a very good idea the
situation from the owners’ point of view. These
remarks were both reprinted in the daily press,
but called forth no action on the part of the Min-
ister for Justice. And letters written to the daily
press by labour members, drawing attention to
these remarks, were refused publication.
Dear Bulletin, —Your quotation from the
Woman’s Herald, in re organised prostitution in
military cantonments in India, though the facts
are undeniable, has a tendency to mislead. The
truth is that prostitution, though an evil, is an
inevitable one, and the Indian military authorities
have no choice but either to shut their eyes to an
evil they cannot prevent, as our self-righteous
Australian legislators do, and pretend not to
believe in its existence, or to control and regulate
it so as to make it as harmless as possible. At
least it may be said that the women are
not recruited by seduction as would be
the case in England and America. In India,
prostitution is a part, not only of the social, but
the religious system. The priestesses of the
Hindu goddess Kali are prostitutes by virtue of
their office, and there are some Hindu tribes in
which the young women claim a hereditary right
to follow the same calling, and are not ashamed of
it. It is, under the circumstances, reasonable
that the Indian authorities should take precau-
tions to protect European soldiers against the
dangers they might otherwise incur in native towns.
Similar, and even more stringent precautions are
taken in France feir the protection of the civil
population, brothels are licensed and inspected by
the police, and women of the town are made to
wear a distinctive dress. The difference is that
the Frenchwoman feels her trade to be infamous,
the Hindoo woman who is born to it does not.
That’s all. We must not estimate people of other
races according to our own habits of thought.—
Yours, J.R.
[The above is another horrible example of the average
correspondent’s incapacity for keeping to the point, and
his tendency to sprawl all over the place, instead of walk-
ing a straight line. The Bulletin didn’t “estimate
people of other races according to our ovyn habits of
thought,” in fact, it hardly dealt with the Hindoo aspect
of the case at all. It didn’t deny that the evil was incur-
able, or object to its being “regulated.” But it did
object to the Anglo-Indian’s snuffle about how he
“elevates” the native, and inculcates purity and
morality, and leads him to better things, when, instead of
“ raising ” the Hindoo, he cheerfully descends to the
Hindoo’s level, and apparently enjoys doing it. The
Bulletin doesn’t specially object to the Anglo-Indian s
immorality, for he is no more immoral than the average,
but his hypocrisy is disgusting.—Ed. B.]
The All Right 'Un.
( FOR THE BULLETIN .)
He came from “ further out,”
That land of heat and drought
And dust and gravel,
He got a touch of sun,
And rested at the run,
Until his ciii-e was done
And he could travel.
When Spring had decked the plain
He flitted off again
As flit the swallows,
And from that Western land,
When many months were spanned,
A letter came to hand
Which read, as follows :
“ Dear sir, I take my pen
In hopes that all your men
And you are hearty.
You think that I’ve forgot
Your kindness, Mr. Scott;
Oh, no, dear sir, I’m not
That sort of party.
“ You sometimes bet, I know,
Well, now, you’ll have a show
The books, to frighten.
Young Billy Fife and me
Up here at Wingadee,
We’re training Strife, and he
Is a all right ’un.
“ Just now we’re running byes,
But, sir, first time he tries
I’ll send you word of ;
And running on the crook
Their measures we have took,
It is the deadest hook
You ever heard of.
“ So when we lets him go,
Why, then I’ll let you know,
And you can have a show
To put a mite on.
Now, sir, my leave I’ll take,
Yours truly, William Blake.
P.S. —Make no mistake—
He’s a all right ’un.”
• •••«»
By next month’s Riverine
I saw my friend had been
A bit too cunning.
I read : “ The racehorse, Strife,
And jockey, William Fife,
Disqualified for life—
Suspicious running !”
But, though they spoilt his game,
I reckon, all the same,
That I can fairly claim
My friend a white ’un.
For, though he wasn’t straight,
His actions indicate
His heart, at any rate,
Was an all-right ’un.
THE BANJO.


“ Bulletin ” Series, 3STo. 1.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SECOUD ZEIDITIOItT
OF
:fi A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Yerse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WEITBRS.
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
Bulletin ” Series, 3NTo. 2.
a
of
By PRICE W A RUNG.
“ The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of The
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. Tnc late Marcus Clarke, befoie
producing « His Natural Life/ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict system. , The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer s knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘ Price Waning/ as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout : his thorough
acquaintance, even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary ability with which
the subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
“ ‘ The Transportation System/ said Archbishop Whately, speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a monument such
as I suppose was never before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity. How true
this is Marcus Clarke’s great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung’s ’ stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not be given to
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are narratives of the
blind brutalism of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the torture of
death, noble efforts of truly Christian clergymen to stem influences which deformed body and soul, pathetic records of lives
wrecked by savage laws and men scourged into kinship with devils. ‘ Price W arung ’ has taken this material and, choosing
the most suitable to his purpose, placed it with dramatic force before his readers. The stories, although connected by a thread
of general sequence, are so written that each is complete in itself.”—Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
Price/ ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
«
Bulletin” Series, ISTo. 3.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENG.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood.
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under Arms” :—ln these “Tales of the Austral Tropics ” will be found the
strange romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Aus-
tralia. That they are not less true than terrible, I take it upon myself to affirm. That such is far from being the case with the
larger proportion of literary manufacture professing to describe Australian life and character, I must distinctly assert. “ Those
who know seldom write, and those who write don’t know,” remarks the veteran colonist with accentuated emphasis. But this
author’s name is a household word among bushmen and bookmen from Albany to Thursday Island, from “The Gulf” to the
Snowy River— ' " .
“ Alike to him the sea, the snore,
; The pen, the bridle and the oar.”
To him, familiar as highways are the endless solitudes of the “ Never Never Country he has tempted Desert Sphinx, gazed
upon gold matrix and opal hoards which gleamed in mockery of the exhausted wanderer. Trusted for dear life in forest glades
to a steady eye and a true rifle. Listened in a canoe on the Coral Sea to the moaning of the approaching tempest.
Lon" a leading actor upon Dame Nature’s stage, he has tin ned scene-painter for the nonce, and limned with lifelike
effect the drama of the Waste. ' ■■ ■
... “ Rolf Boldrkwood,” Albury, N.S Wales, Nov. 10, 1892.
Price ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Ausiralla's Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tlie Bulletin,"
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
It the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy .
The Bulletin favours—
A. Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System —one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
sin p of Laud.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital bub brains,
and has become the representative Australian
Journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established A us-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
' The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla : ms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
fey the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
Bransferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, ©f all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
tothebushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. ' A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of Ihe Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal ufiicial—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, Ihe Bul-
letin is the one most frequency remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the baldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPEC I Al< NOTICE
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence pet Quarter, or One Pound
per A nmnn.
Business- commimioations- to be addressed, to
Willi aM' Mao lkod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. AiichibjVLH.


“The Bulletin’s”
MISSING WORD
COMPETITION
(SERIES, No. 6)
Will Close on Saturday,
Stla. AU&X7ST.
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX : ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
IE !R. IST IE S T FAVEISTC,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A PROPHECY.
DON’T BE DISTRESSED. Depression will won give place to prosperity by thoughtful economy
and good laws. The lands of the colony should be its source of wealth, but this can only be
practicable by a profitable market being provided for the products of the land. The railway rates
should b© adapted, somewhat upon the Zone system, to the wants of the inland districts. By carrying
rates to the sea-board, so that the tillers of the soil may have a profitable market provided (America
owes her great prosperity mainly to this), emigration would then flow into the country, population
increase, and a natural boom the result.
LEYER BROTHERS, LTD.,
Are doing their best to encourage Trade in the Colony, having, since January,
mr2ooo TONS OF Sydney.
Value, £50,000.
This benefits BUTCHERS, SQUATTERS, WHARF LABOURERS, CARTERS, etc.
This Tallow goes to make the far-famed
S-o.zilig'lrt Soap,
WHICH IS USED IN
Her Majesty the Queen’s Larmdiry,
And by all who believe that THE BEST IN QUALITY IS THE CHEAPEST BY RESULT.
Lever Brothers, Limited, Sydney.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
l*rice Os. 6d.
$(!&£ t£(fm r
/Jewry HtATifS
.TRADE MARK
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. Gd..
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They (all into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will ol
the wearer. Unlike ; many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have (he texture of velvet.
GK XX. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGS STREET. SYDNEY.
4ST Look Out koe
“THE LAST OF SlX:’’
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of ikmerican Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites,
Proprietor of tlie “ Pioneer w Ore Treating Works,
PYRUONT, SYDNEY, lor the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wot Crashing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
i
i
ì
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT!
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip—ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what ajhome should
be—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your , boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duffs or Bibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. lam FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man -a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard. Square, SimSTSIT.
[SSTABUBBU OTMM A QUARTAB Or A CSNTVRT.j
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. M ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
Teruu-10«. m. per Pay. Walt©! Sidney Me of Newcastle), “Prop.”
PRIVATE HOSPITAL,
ZE3Zoulso 9
MIZSON’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Resident Medical Officer-Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-E-O-S., Eng., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical
Officer, Brisbane, etc.
SXPERXXISgrOZID wxtrsiktg staff.
Terms Strictly Moderate—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For Medical, Surgical and Gynaecological Cases.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
'.■--I
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. a
NOW PUBLISHED.
T
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
