

&
o
C/J
&
&
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A TTKEN’S ALE TUCKENS’ WHISKY
■A* TTCJT7TA T »V 'TTTT? T.ATT7. PTIATM/RS DICKENS.
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
HARRISON* &'aTTWOG3, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PRINCIPAL CLUBS IN SfDNEL
O
•9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Twining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
° EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS' and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW asp SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AA AILAb
I3V
FRY’S MALTED
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
CKAWFOKD’S
CELEIt HATED
I*. & o.
Scotch Whisky
m
O
Xj
- " /j j.
N
hi
O
O
<o
£4d aixJz
JULES RENARD & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
r*-
- r
A
f?
o*
■r h£
S>£
ttt
'(*»»,,«""I rriz!.-
"“'Uillllll' ■ Oj
\^ r^mw m^voaamaaa^
The Oxford Hotel, 3SL±rx g Street > Syd “ ey<
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FfiESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
135 KING SIKEET, SYDNEY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of DIET
may be had at
MODERATE PRICES.
The successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISH of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Special Attention.
fUIEE’J WEISKI. ALUIPP’S AIL
JOHN WALKER, 24 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Sole
iri
New Soiiitlx Wales fox* Messrs.
Clayton and Slmttlewortlx.
vOmpotni) I'ormitut Knb*isk, with tu\:on ratio expansion
gear, steel boiler ami water-heater.
1M H! O VED PORT AI iLE~ E NH >IN K.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
5
m
\ •
IMITIOVBD PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD
Sing* Cylinder, Double Cylinder and Compound Portable and Semi-Fortable
snnes.
Corn Shelters
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGTNIS, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION
J. & C. Howard,
ENGINES itS' Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
2SOJ Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 13.—N0, 679. J
[Saturday, February 18, 1893.


TALES of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “ PRICE WARUNG*'
O
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
PIERCE’S
belt
Chain
TRADE HAH*
WEAK MEN.
‘•l>r. Pierce’s Ualvanie
Chain Beit” (with Electric
I Suspensory) is the latest im-
I proved and only perfect BODY
battery now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
parts and restores them to
Health and Vigorous Strength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best!
Send for Pamphlet No. 18. Wash. H. Soul&Cc.
, Sydney, and Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents.
MAGNETIC ELAS. TRUSS 00., San Francisco. U.S.A.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
'V
"f-
-tr
OLD
RMs
SUNBU
FIMg
r*i
HA
N
&.C
£/V£
!
Y
p *o
p f?
s'; : : ‘
tTORS
Edward How & Go.,
SYDNEY.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
MALTO-
QUINIA
WINE
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AS
A Cure for
AGUE.
DEBILITY,
INFLUENZ
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
Wholesale Agents;
LANGE <sc THONEMAN,
M i: I, It O 1 K \ E.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS A¥D INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
v.o.
CROMARTY
Whisky:
Creeniees Brothers
QIUCO* IONOON MO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FZ3RR 3E3,
Successor to Broil) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Cmr MATTEI’S
MARVELLOUS
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address—The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atkinson’s. Beware of Imitations.
ATKINSON'S
EAtT DE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
isoneof the mostrefreshing Perfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTio;;! -Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Mark—a “ White Rose ”
and address in full
XIO Ol>.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four H'eeks by the use of
o
The only Infallible Remedy far DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Records Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important dements of the human frame.
In cases of Lis, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <fc Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales— W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
(otfMAW * Sons
V
A
* Ml *
/
w
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamimdra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
EXTRAORDINARY CLEARING SALE OF GUNS HI
ONLY
£2 13 6
CARRIAGE
PAID.
DOUBLE-BARRELLED
GUfIS
BREECH-LOADING
ONLY
£2 13 6
CARRIAGE
PAID.
Beal twist barrels, best steel locks, beauti-
fully engraved, walnut & chequered stock, double
grip, quick handy lever action, steel heel plate.
The entire stock of a European gun-making
firm, now in liquidation, comprising of this one line
upwards of 1,000 guns, which we have secured at a
figure that enables us to sell them, carriage paid, at
the ridiculously low price of £2 13s. 6d. each,
being less than the cost of manufacture. These guns
if bought in the ordinary way would cost at least £5,
but as we have secured them in one lot for cash and
are always on the alert for special and cheap lines to
offer, we are willing to sell them at the low price
asked that they may serve to introduce other lines
of our importation. Never before in the history
of the gun trade has such a remarkable bargain
been offered to sportsmen and as our supply is
limited and we wish to distribute them as far as
they will go one at a time, we will not sell more
than ONE gun to a single individual; and in
order to protect ourselves from dealers, &c., ordering
in quantity, we require that this advertisement shall
becut out and senttohs with your order and £2 13s. 6d.
in registered letter, post office order or cheque.
This advertisement may never appear again
and is made for a limited time only, hence we must
refuse to accept any orders sent later than May Ist,,
1893, as we cannot guarantee to supply them after that
date. Order at once to secure one of these grand
bargains.
We guarantee each and every gun to prove
perfectly satisfactory, and to be grand killers at
long distances, or we will cheerfully refund
money. Our firm is well established and reliable,
and we do just as we say. Remember these guns
will prove quite as serviceable and have as good an
appearance as any costing from £lO upwards.
They are 12 gauge, central fire, using cartridges
which can be purchased everywhere, Eley’s or any
other 13 gauge central fire.
This advertisement must be cut out and sent
to us with your order not later than May Ist, 1893,
Send money by registered letter, money
order or cheque to
THE BRITISH GUN COMPANY, 34 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
“ Tlxo Bulletin’s ”
MISSING-WORD COMPETITION.
The FIRST COMPETITION CLOSES FEBRUARY 18.
For Particulars see Inside Paper.
The Person who fills in correctly the Missing-word will promptly
get a cheque for the total amount received,
No Reduction Whatever Being Made.
|s./WwAYsfH& Best
Scale o f Advertising 1
-IN-
U
THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Ad vertisements
An EXTRA discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance
Gs. per inch per insertion, nett
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.'
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ Tlie LAST OF SIX:”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
—BY—
fp-dRy iJ&J Ju w JLa'J hU Q hJL mJim mmmmbm \S JCd ■JUNi W
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Anns”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


Medical.
Assisted by Dr. BIiMSLIE,
M.D., L.F.P.8., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 820.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
»(!« and N.Z., and lias devoted Sixteen Years
the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
nlaints' No experimenting ;no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothin"- hut an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot he removed with the
proper remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
Is particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all .
Office Honrs s 10 to 12 a.m.; 2to 4 and
J to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
lo those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
bis charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
O.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
pLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
1. AMERICAN “ VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 65., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. PILLS, for irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURB.
Mention this paper when writing.
“Men I have Smiled with.’
W E STAY at ru. -fc on’ b,
W E
NHnginog
stay at the royal.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
CHILTERN, VIC.
TJ McS WINE Y’S STAR HOTEL
*“* Is th|! Best.
v WAGGA.
Gr ive B. TXT aughton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A -CALL.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
&F Under New Management. TES
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
° 3 - P er Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager .. Geo. lly. .lames
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
ALBURY.
the globe hotejl
(T. K. EROWN, Proprietor)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
New Sample Room just Added.
Opposite ParJianient’House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Grated Ho w
iIICI.UOUHNH.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. i
eluding- Breakfast, 55.; Double
inents for large families. A.
Drand Hotel, Melbourne.
er week. Single Bed, in-
litto, 10s. Special arrange*
'. BEKER, Manager, The
I ales of the convict system.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
England via America
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Frarfcisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land ;
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d,
STEERAGE £3O IBs. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Gompany’s’Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
fi OMPAGNIE DES MESSAGERIES MAIU-
V TIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 400 C
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
ns follows:
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines and Suez Canal dues on passengers.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B. —Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London. For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
Ee BLANC, Principal Agent.
qIl a MOUSt'AOH Ell
Capillarixie!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. TSt
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely asijight follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
Muir, A AITKK’V, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
o
/BAKIRES
P O W DtR
w
m
Sh®: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S !”
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He : “Ah ! Dem that make me love.”
ses MaiglSckeh
tusiwiofl**
LOHSE’S
MAID LOGMEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are tbe most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all class'f'erfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE. Berlin.
THE
OPTIMUS SYRINGE.
The latest and most complete Syringe ever offered.
Price, 255.; sent on receipt of P.O. Order.
ADDRESS- D I*. A. YOUNG:
Box 958, G.P.0., Sydney.
Medical.
m.
L.R.C.S..L.M.R.C.S
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On. returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE/HO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skiu
Complaints,”
PRICE, OHE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and oven though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and I lustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intend! iff
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Brea.th, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. Th s
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed,to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Fatients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Ilnurs of Coiisiillatiou :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
£2T Address all Communications ;
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
S
m
&
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading collages and hospitals of Europe,
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualification!
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hij
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practico
embraces diseases which probably cause more un
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send Gd. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing;
CONSULTATION TUNE.


Y
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
('HOICK SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
*• An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”— Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds—
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) -and Vestal.
mmmm
tymmi
' mmm
X°Z°Z
-, -•, ...
FOR
r o UGHNESS.& 'mmMMr* "
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
&
&
u*
mm
Cif
LONDEAU
o on be„ London. Par is & New York,
S>* oCV3s> PL ft
e,«7yr-\«>
(dßyiand RoADcfc LqnDON.N-W.c/3)
■y&c
A SANITARY, SOLUBLE ROSE-
DUSTING POAVDER.
In Three Sizes—in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
0
s'
EQELEBRA
i
Leeds
THE
MOST
DELICIOUS
SAUCE
IN
THE
WORLD.
It makes cold meat a luxury.
Makes the plainest viands palatable.
Agrees with the most delicate digestion.
Possesses a pleasing piquancy.
Blends admirably with all gravies.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦>♦♦♦♦♦
SIMPLY PERFECT WITH CHOPS, STEAKS, FISH, &c.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Tillock & Co., Kent St Liverpool Streets, Sydney.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE,
A perfect smoke—G- NUN Darlings.
Paradise—smoking' aGNUN Darling.
Great and small smoke G N U N Darlings.
Beginning the Year.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
He lay on a moth-eaten mattress, thrown upon
the floor of a rat-eaten house in a suburban lane.
And she —the wife upon whom he had not set
eyes for five years —sat by his side, waiting for
him to come to his senses. For the fires of fever
burnt fiercely in his breast, and his life had
almost flickered out.
The tawdry blind flapped against the window,
as though the hand of Someone waiting outside
were stirring it. And the wind blew the flame of
the guttering candle to' and fro, and moaned
around the head of the dying man as though it
came from an unseen world, and whispered in his
ear.
He babbled in his delirium of many things.
The name of the wife he had deserted came often
to his lips. And then the woman by his side
would cover her wasted face with a no less wasted
hand, and silently rock herself in the shadow.
But more frequently he talked of gullies in the
ranges, where the beds of creeks glittered with
gold, and where thirst-tortured travellers, braving
the dangers of the bush by night and day, stumbled
along and threw themselves upon their knees,
dipping their arms into the golden stream, only to
groan despairingly when their hands came up full
of flakes of mica ! Always the same, the Dream
of Fortune and the Awakening.
It was in the pause after one of these cries of
despair that he came back to consciousness.
“ Where am I ? ” he asked faintly.
The woman, leaning back in the shadow,
answered him.
“ Who is that ? ” he asked again.
The woman came out of the shadow, and the
candle-light fell upon her wasted face and her gray
hair.
“ Do you know me, Jim ? ” she said.
Then there was a deep silence in the room, and
that Hand shook the blind again, and the wind
whispered, and the candle burnt lower.
“I’ve been a brute to you, Alice,” said the
man’s voice, more faintly than before. “But,
please Cod, we’ll be happy yet. How long have
I been here ?”
“ Nearly two weeks, Jim, and to-morrow is New
Year’s Day.”
“Then we’ll begin the year together, Alice.”
The voice was very faint now, and the candle had
burnt very low. “And we shall be rich. Fori
know where gold lies, in a gully in the hills. It’s
very dark, wife. But dark—or light—we’ll begin
the year—together.”
The wind brought a new sound now. It was
the ringing of bells, peal on peal, tolling for the
Old Year that was dead and rejoicing in the New
Year’s birth.
And in the room there was a whisper.
“Forgive me, Alice, and let us begin the
year .”
“ Oh ! Jim ! Jim !”
The candle flickered and went out. The wind
fell to a hush, and the sound of the bells came
softly from afar.
He had begun the Year.
B.
Dad’s Fault.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
“I drink; yes. But it’s Dad’s fault. Can you
blame me? Just listen a bit. What can a man
like me do?”
“What can others do? It isn’t every man’s
father is captain.”
“ That’s one way of looking at it, but the fact
that he’s captain is against me. Take the others
—every miner gets his pay and lives as he likes.
I don’t. I’ve to board with Dad. And he makes
his own charge, and the charge varies with the
number of days I work. He just cuts it to leave
me a trifle on pay-day. Is it any wonder I drink?
The heart is taken out of me.”
“ But the board and so on are good.”
“ Are they ? There are three hundred copper-
miners on the field, and any one of them can have
my boots. You see, boarding with Dad, I must
wash myself. He calls it behaving like a gentle-
man. See here, I must actually put on a boiled
shirt on Sundays. Do you wonder I drink ?
I’ve no objection to behave like a gentleman if
I’ve anything for it, but Dad won’t bleed. Do
you wonder I drink ?”
“An educated man
“ Educated ? There it is again ! Dad’s in it
on that side also. He gave me a bit of education,
but not enough to make anything out of. I know
enough to see these fellows’ ignorance, but what’s
the good of that? I don’t know enough to be
happy with myself. I count that a crime. I’d be
all right with the boys if I didn’t know so*much.
As an ignorant man I’d be as sober as-a judge ;
in fact, I’d likely be a temperance preacher ; and
as an educated man I’m sure I’d be sober. But
Dad dragged me out of ofte class and didn’t shove
me into the other. Thus I’m nowhere. Is it any
wonder I drink ?
“ Fine feelings ——”
“ Fine feeiings, nice manners—they’re”just like
the rest. Dad gave me scraps and shreds of these,
and where am I ? I’ve just enough to disgust me
with the fellows around. If I were rougher and
worse-mannered my stomach wouldn’t rise as it
does. If I were perfectly well - mannered I
wouldn’t notice or could successfully distract
mySelf. As it is, I’m in a hole. Do you wonder
I drink ? If I had the manners of a miner I’d be,
sober ; if I had the education of one I’d be sober ;
if I had the pay of one I’d be sober. But at eyery
point Dad sits on me. Do you wonder I drink?”
“ Well, marry and make a home of your own.”
“There it is. Dad’s there again. I had a
notion of Cissy. You know Cissy—long nose, big
byes, long hair, long fingers—just my style. Wfell,
what docs Dad do ? ”
“ But if you like the girl you needn’t mind
Dad.”
“ That’s all yon know. Why, Dad cut me out.
They’re engaged. Is it any wonder I drink ? ”
“ But you’ve been drunk now fully two years.”
“ And do yon wonder ? ”
CURRAGH.
The tape telegraph, in Jay Gould’s bed-
room, began ticking out the news of his death a
few minutes after it occurred, the instrument
working automatically with others. The incident
had been forecast in Bronson Howard’s play,
“ Henrietta. ”
The warship (of “Our Squadron ”) Mil-
dura’s boiler has been sold to the Newcastle
creamery. If the boiler was none too large for
the ship, and not in any Way defective, as the
officers declared, in contradiction to the men’s
assertion, why was a change necessary ?
AN EFFICIENT CURATIVE
For disorders of the stomach, liver, and bowels is
found in Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is effectual and
perfectly safe.
The Splitter’s Song.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
What ho, when the keen blade bites the H
And the chips on the dead leaves dance 6 *
And the bush gives us bac.k, boys, merri/r
' Blow for blow as the sunbeams glance °
From the axe when it sweeps—oh then m,, 1,
Is the soul of the splitter gay, ' ’ b °ys
And he feels that his graft has got its iovs
And the work is not toil—but play. J ’
Chorus—
Ho he grips his axe, and he grasps the maul
And his blows in a tuneful cadence fall • ’
For his life is the freest and best of all ’
And he looks not behind or before him
Swinging free with a stroke that’s stramlu ,
strong b lt aru)
To the heart of the messmate sent
th e tune of the magpies’ morning
With the ring of the steel is blent. S g
See the birds in their terror scatter high
When she falls with a rush and bound ■
And the saplings shatter and the splinters flv
And the ranges all roar around. m. ’
Chorus—
Who is lord when the splitter mounts his sn;i v
, e breeze on his brown breast blows ’
W hen the scent of the new wood floats afar’
And the gum from its red wounds flows’
With the bush at his back he laughs at Care—
With a pipe and a right good mate
There’s a drink in the billy, and grub to spare
And a bunk in the ’
Chorus—
On the hills or in gullies dim and sad
Where the stringy is straight and tall
You may hear any day his chorus glad ’
And the clink of his wedge and maul.
For the life of the splitter is free, is free
And the heart of the splitter’s gay ’
When his axe drives the chips up tnerrifee
And the hills echo back his la^.
Chorus— i
Ho, he grips his axe, and he grasps the maul
And his strokes in a merry measure fall, ’
And he scorns the joys of the townies all
When the ranges respond to his chorus.
Melb.
EDWARD DYSON
It is only fair to “J.L.P.,” who has
written much over the signature “Bakblox” in
many newspapers, to say that he is not the “Back
Blocks” who lately wrote a letter to The Bulletin
in favour of encouraging camels in the far West
Shortly after the completion of the tele-
graph line through a nigger-infested part of
Queensland a black'-boy was shot by one of the
station-masters just in time to prevent him
spearing the lineman. The S.M., being noV to
the homicidal portion of his duties, wired to head
quarters, as follows Accidentally shot black-
boy in station-yard—what shall Ido ?” About an
hour later the instrument ticked out: “ Bury him,
you infernal fool.”
The last duel fought between. British
officers was in July, 1853, between Captain Nolan,
ridingJnaster of the 15th King’s Hussars, and
•Captain Johnson, H.E.1.C.5., near Bangalore,
Madras. The duel was fought with swords, and
Captain Nolan killed his adversary. This Captain
Nolan was the same officer who carried the order to
Lord Cardigan to take the guns from the Russians
on‘Balaclava day. Nolan was shot dead in the
charge. It was of him that Lindsey Gordon
wrote; —
So he rode to death with that careless smile
In the van of the Light Brigade,
"So, stricken by Russian grape, the cheer
Rang out while he toppled hack
From his shattered lungs as merry and clear
As it did when he roused the pack.
Let never a tear his memory stain, give his ashes never a
sigh, > '
One of many who perished, and not in vain,
As a type of our chivalry.
Dear Bulletin, —You are dead against the
introduction of Kanakas'and other forms of cheap
labour. I wish you would start sugarcane-grow-
ing, and have to depend on the white labourers to
get your eane planted', weeded, and stripped.
You would "soon alter your views. You would
consign the whole of them to perdition before a
month passed. They—the white labourers—are a
cheeky, lazy,unthankful, worthless kit of wretches.
I am a workihg-raan ; have earned my own living
since I was 12 years of age. I hold a rented farm,
and grow sugarcane—about the only profitable crop
that can be grown at present in my part of the
country. I pay my men—for lam compelled. to em-
ploy—6s. a day, and provide them with firewood,
water, and sleeping accommodation. They work,
on an average, nine hours a day, and the work is not
heavy. It is nothing compared with navvying— }
speak from experience—fencing, or digging. I®,
child’s-play, or work, if you like. If the day is
hot, I allow the men to take from two to three
hours off in the middle of the day. Well, a
forlorn-looking individual, “ humping his blttey,
comes along, asks for a job, rolls off a fairy tale
about being ddad-beat, etc., etc., etc., and begsm
the name\)f God for employment. Perhaps lam
full-handed (I have six or eight men at work), but
out of pity I put him on. The. first week he will
work well,"the second week he flags considerably,
the third week he assumes a gp-io-blazes de-
meanour, and if I speak to him about his .
work, he throws down his hoe at once, lets -
|oose ’his flood of lingo at me, and winds-up
with a demand 1 for his sanguinary money. B®
gets it, and for a'few days he haunts the local,
pub., with a pair of black eyes and a patch of skm-
off his nose. Not that 1 mean to insinuate that L
or anyone at my suggestion, give him the said
coloured optics. I haven’t been at thiscane-groff-
ing business very long, and never had men in my
employ before, and am fast coming to the con-
clusion that I treat them too well, and speak top .
kindly to them. For the future I shall treat them
with very little consideration and no courtesy»
and when I have occasion to remind them tha
their hoes are not moving fast enough, I siia
intersperse my remarks with allusions to purga-
tory, blood, and other things dear to the heart 0 .
the working-man. And if half-a-dozen stray ,
Kanakas happen to wander along this way 1 sli»
hire a coach-and-four, and a brass band— u ■».
Bulletin— and go out to meet them. AO
although I shall continue to read The Bulleii.\
any articles dealing with the white working-ma
as against employers will be read in a scoffing) un-
believing spirit. I liavo sent you this on >
to relieve my pent-np feelings, for I tia ' ‘
been worried, harassed, annoyed and vexf-k.
more during the past busy planting season
than ever in my life before, and all by ,
protegtS the poor, down trodden shirking man.
A CoiINSTALK.


nrm mim.
CAUTION.
IT IS HEREBY NOTIFIED that legal proceedings will be immediately in-
stituted against any Chemist or person discovered infringing Frazer’s Tablets’
Labels or Registered Trade-marks, or Selling Fraudulent Imitations of “ Frazer’s
Sulphur Tablets” or Sulphur Soap.
REWARD!
Will be paid to any person giving such information as will lead to the con-
viction of any Chemist or person selling an imitation put up in a fraudulent
wrapper —in particular, one bearing the representation of a “ Yellow Tablet
on a Black Ground.”
Attorney for FRAZER'S IT A BI!ETS'( Limited),
$6 Margaret Street,, Sydney,
-AND—
-231 Elizabeth Street^Melboume.


IKTSTRTJMBKTT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Tapes, Band Chains. Scales, Plumbobs.
H. A. ALEXANDER Ik CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
vz
V - ; ir*H
■■■ ■
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. IiUOIV.V, Proprietor.
o
rj^oBST/
&W2Ri©
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
Dip
a
oML
•m-
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PREMIER BRAND " BOOTS & SHOES,
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
“PREMIER.” They stand alone for style, quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECT TO THE WEARER —there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carnage Paid.
jmi Try Them,
DEPOTS—32O George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“Mhen slovens gel* Mdy they polish the
bottoms of the p&nsT-when
o
o
bxe given They m
never tired of cleaning up-
SAPQLIO
o
Two servants in two neighboring houses dwelt,
But differently their daily labor felt;
Jaded and weary of her life was one,
Always at work, and yet ’twas never done.
The other walked out nightly with her beau,
But then she cleaned house with SAPOLIO.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
!
Russian
Brand
o
o
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia— T. JT. Mac’William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
OEI3INAL and BEST TONIC, OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED.
Captain Fisher, Stipendiary Magistrate, writes“ I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and I am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of-excellent Tonic properties.”
Captain Hcsclton, J.P., Chairman Port Jackson Steamship Company, writes For many years I have
used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE, and I can therefore personally testify to its many excel’e it strengthening
properties. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of (he company, and always
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative, a
thing which even the robust sometimes require. I gladly subscribe my name to endorse the merits of a remedy like
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.”
J. M’Farlanc, Esq., M.L.A., writes" Having been a great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number of
years, and having used a number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks’use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed for'your
Tonic has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to all t hose similarly afflicted.”
N.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
N.B.—MARSH ALL’S .TON 1C NKRVIN Ris warranted to be absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs.
On Kale Everywhere al is, and .Tm, <sil. a liniile,
JMCARSHCAT »T« BROS., Sole Manufacturors.
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT A KODAK.
ZMI A, ZD IE
FIVE SIZES
o
PULL the
STRING!
PRESS the
BUTTON!
We Do the Rest!
SZEIDTnD FOE FTEW ILLESTEATEE CATALOG-EE
-A-EsTIO ZMIOZETTIHIX/Y- CI^GTJLA.E,.
BAKER and ROUSE,
375 —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY— 375
Directly Opposite SYDNEY ARCADE.
SAYWELL & CO.
depot-
“Of?
VEL
AC C O
££oacE S r
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
MA
T
O
B
Vo
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam IE ngines, Boilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING * MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better thap send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We aje the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
LADIES.— Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fix them up equal to new.
■ ii i) ——
Orsuig' Sz
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
Al LEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
meats and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY* Managing Director.
Cutlery
o
Cutlery
Ity Post.
By Post. A
This RAZOR, black handle, 7s. 6d. each (post free). Pine-finish, Ivory Handle, 12s. 6d. each (post free;
W. JNO. BAKER, Wholesale, Retail, and Practical CUTLER,
3 HUITTEB STEEE T, SYD IRT IE "ST IsT. S- w <
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
“TALES or the CONVICT SYSTEM.


The Bulletin
Vol li-Kc.67©.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1893.
Price, 34.
/<L.-// &&* /& C° ■’S’’ > \^V
/J/ / '* \ AV,* v^>vf "JJZ'
/&/ s J#\ X^>'^
/ y o? / 4* % s>° v .o 1 -.
' WM/4;M
, <(f „-fl O' S? £
<J> c# <*' ~ <f> C . 4°^
444 V ///^y
«- X> ,* V l, /Lp V
»V-‘ 4# # 4*-
#4V <44
H4v
V/
Q>
o
o
QUEEN VICTORIA'S CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTION—AGAIN.
Queen Victoria has sent to Queensland her “sympathy” (unaccompanied by a cheque) and here you have a flooded-out family making use of it. The father is seen in
the foreground keeping himself and children dry with it, while in the middle distance may be seen the mother cooking some of it for their frugal meal, crooning in an
undertone “God save the Queen!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0^
Half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, ivith whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 toords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
ivhen the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.- The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with Is. 2d.
added for postage. , ,
No papers will he sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY. FEBRUARY 18, 1893.
The Coming of Israel.
Last week theallegation, cabled from England,
that a shipment of some 400 destitute Jews
was en route for Australia, with the pros-
pect of an unlimited number to follow,
awakened this country to some disagree-
able possibilities of the future. The policy
of the United States, which has grown
weary of being the dust-bin of Europe, has
practically closed up the place of refuge to
which the superfluous humanity of the Old
World has mostly betaken itself for at
least half a century, and thereby has
come a sudden realisation of the extreme
smallness of the earth, and the increasing
lack of new countries to which immigration
can be directed. The globe looks large upon
the map, but the unoccupied regions are
very few, and those which are fitted for
European settlement still fewer. The latter
can be counted on the fingers of one hand—
South Africa, Australia, Maoriland, Argen-
tina, that is about all. Europe and Southern
Asia are already full of men and of misery.
The Canadian Dominion, Iceland, Siberia,
and Patagonia are all more or less frozen
and inhospitable, and the two latter are
practically impossible for political and other
reasons. From Mexico southward to Brazil
is mostly a sun-blasted region where there
is little wealth and many strange diseases,
and where the prospects of the settler are of
the poorest description. The same descrip-
tion applies to all Northern and Central
Africa. The South Sea archipelagos are
already overrun by that universal scavenger,
the Chinaman, Beyond the four countries
already named the world is practically closed,
and of these four Argentina is bankrupt and
lawless, and South Africa is swamped with
the curse of cheap native labour, so that, as
an opening for pauper immigrants, it is prac-
tically worthless. Of all the Promised Lands,
Australia and Maoriland are very nearly the
only ones that are left. And of the 600,000
or 700,000 pauper immigrants who used to
annually raid the United States, as many
as can pay their passages will probably one
day make for these provinces. It is more
than likely that nine-tenths of them will not
be able to pay their passages, and that half
the remainder will be deterred by the appar-
ently infinite distances to be traversed, but
even then the prospect is sufficiently awful.
• • *
r The proposed consignment of Jews may
yet prove the advance-guard of the great
army. If they are admitted there are more
and still more Jews to follow, and after
them more Jews yet, and where or when
the avalanche of Israel will cease if
once started —there is no telling. There
are, on a rough estimate, 6j millions of
Hebrews in existence ; of these, three
millions are located in Russia, and Russia
has given Israel notice to quit en masse.
One-half the tribes of Judah and Benjamin
are seeking a new location, and the country
that takes them in will become the greatest
Jewish power on earth. Australasia can have
half, or more than half, the Chosen People
for the asking, or without the asking. And
not only is the second exodus quite willing
to come this way, but along with the Chosen
we may have hordes of Poles, Hungarians,
Bohemians, and other illiterate paupers
who, being shut out of America, will pre-
sently join in the great movement south-
ward. The beginning of the pauper influx
is like the first small breach which the ocean
makes in an embankment; when once the
stream begins to flow it will never stop
until this country shuts its ports, and declares
that not one more outcast shall find refuge
in Australasia. Soon or late cheap labour
immigration must be absolutely prohibited,
and the sooner the better.
. * * *
/
The possible immigrants from Europe are
almost all objectionable, but of them all
the Hebrews are the most objectionable.
The Bulletin does not object to them
on account of their creed, for it has none
itself, and to it all faiths which do not
grossly outrage either sense or decency are
very much the same. Neither does it object
to their nationality ; to it all civilised white
races are practically alike. Moreover, it
fully recognises that, in many senses, the
Jewish race is the greatest the world has
ever seen, or is ever likely to see.' It has
more vitality than all the rest of the nations
combined. It has outlived all its conquerors,
and they were many ; it has seen the
Egyptian, Canaanite, Philistine, Phoenician,
Syrian, Assyrian, Babylonian, Persian,
Saracen, Scythian, Ethiopian, Parthian,
Greek, Roman, Norman, all die and go down
to the dust, and still it has lived on almost
unchanged, and practically unchangeable.
It promises to outlive the Teuton and the
Frank, and the even more enduring Spaniard,
and to buy and sell on the tomb of the last
of the Anglo-Saxons, and to see even the
Chinaman wither away into his native dust.
The Jew, the Pyramids, and the unspeakably
ancient city of Damascus are probably the
three oldest things in the Eastern hemi-
sphere, and, to all appearance, the Pyramids
will crumble into the voiceless desert, and
Damascus will wither by the shores of its
dried-up rivers before the sons of Abraham
vanish from among the nations. The Jew,
if he would come to Australia, and marry
and give in marriage, and sink his lonesome
identity among the people of this land,
might lay here the foundations of a nation
that would one day own the earth. He
is head and shoulders above all other
men in energy, brains, perseverance,
and everything that goes to make
success. In proportion to their numbers,
the Jews have done ten times as much for
science, art, and literature as any other tribe
or race in all history. It has been truly said
that there is to-day no German literature—
only a Hebrew literature in Germany, and
the same assertion is more or less true in
every land where the vulture beak of Israel
has ever loomed on the furthest horizon.
And with all this, and despite all this, the
Israelite is, next to the Chinaman, the most
undesirable immigrant who ever reached, or
is likely to reach, these shores.
• • •
For the Jew, wherever he goes, remains a
Jew for ever. Immigrants of all the other
nationalities of Europe may be absorbed into
the mass of the population, but this one in-
domitable Asiatic stands apart to all time.
No matter where he goes he is in a strange
land ; he has no land of his own, and is a
foreigner everywhere. He never, or hardly
ever, voluntarily fights for the country in
which he lives, no matter how extreme may
be its peril ; it is not his country and he has
practically no desire for its welfare, except
in so far as his own personal interests are
involved. Since the days when John of
Gischala and his Robbers defended the
crumbling walls of Jerusalem against Titus
and the Roman legions the Jew has practi-
cally abandoned the art of patriotism. He
never toils and, apparently, he never will.
He is essentially a trader, banker, usurer,
sweater, a being of commissions and per-
centages, a past-master in the mystery
of living on the labour of others. Also,
he is incidentally an artist, litterateur,
or politician. Wherever he goes wealth
somehow drifts slowly but surely into his
hands ; wherever he is left undisturbed the
population gradually divides itself into a
small Hebraic plutocracy and a vast multi-
tude of beggared Christians, who labour in
order that the Chosen People may pile up
more and still more riches. The date of his
emancipation is so very recent that the pro-
cess is nowhere complete, but in every
country where the Jew is placed on the same
political level as the rest of the population
things arc steadily moving towards that in-
evitable consummation. Wherever he goes
the aggregate wealth of the country increases,
but its diffusion becomes more and more
unequal, and the line of demarcation between
the rich and the poor becomes more and
more marked. In every land the Hebrew
is a commercial freebooter, a plunderer, an
atom in an army of occupation, one among a
flight of locusts who come to devour and
then, if necessary, to pass on. Nobody was
ever further removed from the ideal settler
in a new land than the typical son of Jacob
and of his brother Cohen.
* • •
It may seem, on the surface of things,
absurd to apply this description to the
illiterate, beggared, toil worn Hebrew of
Eastern Europe—those incarnations of ab-
jectness and misery who are even now
knocking at the door of civilisation and
humbly craving admittance. But the blood
of Abraham is in their veins, and there is
not one of the sons of that indomitable
patriarch who is not a potential danger. Ihe
Jews of Britain, France, Germany, Spain
and Italy were all, at one time or another,
nearly as hopeless, as wretched, and as
down-trodden as those of Russia are to-day,
but the instant the weight of political
oppression was removed the old Israelitish
spirit flamed out once more, and the people
who yesterday were slaves, to-day reach
forth their talons to grasp the earth and all
its contents. The reason why all Anglo-
Saxondom must close her gates against the
wholesale coming of Israel may be summed
up in a sentence —she dare not do otherwise.
This world is already suffering because workers
are too few and traders and speculators are
too many, and the very existence of a
nation which is nearly all traders and
speculators is a calamity. We may offer
a certain measure of barren sympathy to the
persecuted exiles from Russia, but more
than that we cannot afford to do. And even
that sympathy is somewhat tempered by the
knowledge that the brutal Tartar is only
retaliating, in his own unspeakably brutal
fashion, upon a people whose methods of
finance weighed upon him like a mountain
for many years. The 160 per cent. Hebrew
took enormous risks in his dealings with the
Russian, and the results have proved
disastrous —as might have been expected.
He who practises extortion upon a tiger is
always torn asunder by his debtor sooner or
later. y
Francis Adams to “The Bulletin” on
English Politics.
Dear Bulletin, —I have long intended to write
you a letter about some things in the last general
elections in England, but the opportunity only
conies now. Also, the necessity for telling you
the truth, or something more or less approach-
ing it, concerning the more visible phases of
English politics is not great.
* * #
The result of the elections can only be looked
upon in one way by any candid, unbiassed and
intelligent observer, and that is as a great Con-
servative victory. The English feeling in favour
of giving each party its turn is, perhaps, the
most potent factor in the whole system. After
the Tories have had a good innings, then let
the Liberals take the bat, and we will see what
the Tories can do in the way of bowling
and fielding, so reason many Englishmen.
Gladstone’s administration of 1868 lasted five
years, and was followed by Beaconsfield’s of
1874 for six, which was in turn followed by
Gladstone’s of 1880 for five years again.
Salisbury’s of 1886 lasted six years and
fourteen days. It committed blunders, many
and gross, one of them, the Parnell persecution,
peculiarly offensive to English sentiment. Yet,
with by far and away the most powerful living
political personality against them, tjie Tories
have been beaten by a bare majority of 40,
which has now fallen to 38. Several reasons
are assigned for this—the Irish expose over
Parnell’s deposition being the chief—but some
of the reasons which owjht to be assigned for it
are thrust into the background by the miserable
exigencies of party polemics.
# # •
The simple truth is that, take it all round,
this Tory Administration has been a really
good one in many ways. It is not only that it
has “run” the country, within and without,
on a direct line of policy which could be
honestly apprehended and justly judged, but it
has done more genuine democratic work than
any of the Liberal Governments which imme-
diately preceded it, Chamberlain and Dilkb
and the Radicals generally never, in the old
Liberal Administrations, had any real influence.
Chamberlain and his Liberal Unionists of the
Midlands have practically controlled the Tory
Government, and, instead of the Gladstonian
“ high-ialutin ” platitudes about Liberty, Jus-
tice, Humanity, Civilisation, Christianity, the
Almighty, and all the rest of it, a little actual
democratic work has been got through in more
than one province of the national life.
Gosohen’s conversion scheme is the biggest
thing that has been done in English finance
this century, and it is astonishing how little
credit he has got for it. As usual, it was one
of Gladstone’s perennial promissory baits, but
when he had the chance to carry the thing
through he funked, also, as usual; and now the
old rascal has the effrontery to deny and be-
little it! Had Chamberlain and Balfour had
their own way—had the last measures of the
Parliament been to entirely divorce local from
Imperial Governments —had England, Ireland,
Scotland and Wales been given at one
and the same moment a full and just con-
trol of their local affairs, then Gladstone
would have been permanently euchred at last,
or I am much mistaken, and the most stupen-
dous political fraud of our time, or any time,
have at last been definitely exploded.
# * #
Pray do not think I have become Toryfied.
This is not so. For, to me, both parties are
equally indifferent, equally hateful rather ,
1 cannot see the very slightest reason whv it,
should not bo judged, absolutely as they'd y
leave undone, something for democrat ® r
the nation. There is this at least m i y 111
for the Tory. He i, for r,m„i„“
avowedly, first of all, in the interests of fi gS
classes (that is, of himself), but, after that i
shows (or so it seems to me) some real care f ' 5
England and the English masses, and u
fam do a little (not talk an infinite ainom r
both. At any rate he doesn’t cant pern e >
about Liberty, Justice, Humanity, Civile y
and Christianity, and he leaves the Ai mt,.!?"’
alone in that dignified repose which bec( HTV
Him as the Great Absentee Landlord of Creation
• * #
The sterile Liberal tall talk is utterly sick
ing. It means nothing, comes from nothing
leads to nothing, ends in nothing. Of (u
stonk personally I find it as impossible tosrS
with patience as every Australian Democrat
does of Pakkes. But the Englishman is by f,I
the worse of the two. Parkes, at iLf
doesn’t humbug himself.\ The Old Man of tl
Antipodean Sea has at least the saving clause
humour behind the scenes. Gladstone In..*
befool his bedpost. He is a fetish. Every 011 °
must bow before him, or renounce all hope of
preferment in the Liberal camp. He h- 1
garotted all initiative and ability there. IV
liament found him out in 1874, and was so
weary of him that it drove him oft'. But
the country hadn’t found him out, and the
country forced him back on top of the political
world in 1880, just as it did Pakkes in Kew
South Wales in 1887. Sections of the country
have found him out since then, and know him
for the verbose and fiddling that
he is, but new sections arise to be
fooled by him still, and as I went away
from England a few months ago I was made
violently sick on land by a tremendous dose of
the old Liberty, Justice, Humanity, Civilisa-
tion, Christianity, and the Almighty stuff
before I was made more moderately sick on sea
by the waves of the equinoctial gales. He has
exceeded the measure, this man ! He has lied
too much and bamboozled too much ; he ought
to go. He blocks all progress. So long as he
lives Radicalism will be muzzled and Demo-
cracy a farce. It is he, and he alone, who has
made it possible for “ the stupid party ” in the
State to advance before the progressive party.
He is the Spurgeon and Pecksniff of politics
rolled into one. He leaves a democrat in
England no possible political action except that
of dynamiting the Liberal-party. Frightened
as he has been by the revolt among the last
arrivals in the Radical camp in Parliament, and
by brutally outspoken scepticism concerning
his veracity and sincerity on the part of
the Labour men, he still clings to his
crooked ways and trusts devoutly in the pur-
blind English middle-class, which he knows
how to flatter and cajole as no man in all our
history has ever known how to cajole or flatter
any other preponderating section of the com-
munity,
* * *
But he will not put through Home Rule, all
the same. I freely prophesy that. He will
not put through Home Rule either next year
or ever. With Parnell alive, and in his full
power, he might have done it; but Parnell is
dead, and, were he alive, it would not be as the
ally of the man whose slow 7 , malevolent hatred
was born and bred of the scorn he knew the
other held for him as a shuffling rhetorician
and a cowardly, canting trimmer. Home Rule
matters nothing now to Democracy. Michael
Davitt, the honest Michael who left Parnell
in order to turn back upon him with a savage
ferocity becauseP4RNELL nad “lied,” has taught
us that. I know no liar among the 600 or 800 liars
who sit in the thieves’ kitchen at Westminster
more foul and contemptible than Michael
Dayitt —no, not even Tim Healy, the hell-cat
of Leinster Hall and Committee Room No. 15.
Davitt, for years and years, has preached
passionately to us all the gospel of the unity
of the English and Irish peoples. He has
appealed to us for justice and sympathy, and
he has assured us of trust and gratil ude. Yet
this was the man who, when John Morley was
about to receive a lesson which he richly
merited for having smitten the democracy in
the face in Loudon, rose up and, with match-
less impudence, flung off the mask at last, and
told us that, if Morley were not returned for
Newcastle, the Irish would block every
democratic measure in the next Parlia-
ment. Liar ? No, Davitt ; that name
is too good for you; that name you
gave to Parnell. Impostor ! Charlatanj.
cheat ! Choose among these, Davitt, anyone
you please, and think that it is prefixed by all
the loathing and hatred and contempt which
will follow you into your grave for what you ve
done,
• # •
No, Michael, you won’t get Home RnD*
Gladstone is going to fool you, and betray you,
just as he has everyone else, and you have now
also the temper of the Democracy to deal wi i
the Democracy you have fooled and betrayer.
Oh, foolish Michael, why not have kept up the
mask a little longer ? Why not have used
till you’d actually got what you wanted out
us? Oh, foolish Michael, do you think we sna
shatter ourselves now against the U nl °n „
phalanx for your and Healy’s and M als
sweet sakes? You mistake vastly, Micba •
Nothing like that is going to happen,
are going to get just as much as
rest of us get—just as much as England » >
as Scotland gets, as Wales gets—just as mu >
and not a jot more ! Do you imagine y°l* “ g ,
to have special terms, you and the other <- fc •
Is there anything so special about you, un >
indeed, in your capacity for pulling down
men who fed and reared you ? Are
Michaels and the Tim Healy’s so wonder
that ? No ; far from it. When they get as iniua
as—just as much as, and no more than
other people they will have got more than
deserts, I fancy. The game is up.,MICHAEG
the game is up ; you’ve got to go under. , fc
one man had the brains and nerve to vwy ’
and you killed him, Michael, because lie * ,
“ liar ” and loved somebody else’s wife.
now no one cares whether you bark or
You are going to be whipped back m


mtter again, Michael,, out of which you came
nleas vou are good and do what you are told
and don’t trouble us with too much begging.
# * *
That is my prophesy concerning Home Rule,
1 i, v this time next year you will all know in
Australia whether it is right or wrong. Mean-
time dear Bulletin, I remain as always, very
.truly yours.
FRANCIS ADAMS.
.Cairo, Egypt, 20th Dec.,, ’92.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Queensland Floods.
The last of many calamities has just descended
pou unhappy Queensland. No such flood has
occurred within the memory of local man as
ihat which has desolated Brisbane and the
adjacent towns. The damage is vaguely
estimated at £2,000,000 ; the loss of life is an
unknown quantity, and the misery involved is
beyond calculation. Brisbane to-day looks like
a fragment of the world the day after the
deluge; it is a steaming wilderness of fallen
bricks and slime and debris and unspeakable
rottenness. One half the Queensland navy and
various other vessels are stranded among the
trees in the Botanical Gardens. Another lost
vessel has been discovered inland among the bush.
Most of South Brisbane has altogether vanished.
The Victoria Bridge, valued at £140,000, has
mostly gone on a voyage down the river, and
its remains will probably be found at a future
date stranded somewhere in far-off Polynesia,
Xlie great railway-bridge has vanished into
nothingness. The houses of the poorer class of
the population—chiefly weatherboard structures
supported on four posts after the cheap and un-
gainly fashion of Australian architecture —have
been washed away bodily by hundreds. For
nearly two days a continuous procession of lost
homes was speeding down towards the sea,
and the cottages of innumerable starving
families are now tossing about in the
Pacific, How many of the inhabitants went
down the river along with the debris of
their fortunes is a mere matter of conjecture ;
probably, for years to come, the melancholy
“ Missing Friends ” column will be occasionally
haunted'with inquiries after people who were
ff last heard of in Brisbane about the beginning
of February, 1893,” Meanwhile, almost every
public structure in the city has been turned
into a refuge, where hundreds of outcasts—
whose goods and prospects are afloat on the
ocean are considering the evil days to
come, A month ago, Brisbane was the most
utterly bankrupt and poverty-stricken of all
the Australian capitals; now its condition
is akin to that of China in a year of famine.
The adjacent towns are almost equally desolate;
probably more than one-third of the population
of Queensland has been involved, more or less
directly, in the general disaster, and the
remaining two-thirds are too insolvent to lend
anything like efficient assistance. The occasion
is one when all Australia should come to the
rescue, and everything that Australia is likely
to do, in its present poverty-stricken condition,
will not be much more than a drop in the ocean
of calamity.
__— -
A Flea for tlie Republic.
Thus Walter Bagehot in the “English
Constitution
It is easy to imagine, upon a constitutional throne, an
active and meddling fool, who always acts when he should
not, who never acts when he should, who warns his
ministers against their judicious measures, who encourages
them in their injudicious measures. It is easy to
imagine that such a king should be the tool of others;
that favourites should guide him ; that mistresses
should corrupt him ; that the atmosphere of a bad
court should be used to degrade free government.
We have had an awful instance of the dangers of consti-
tutional royalty. We have had the cass of a meddling
maniac During the greater part of his life George lll.’s
reason was half upset by every crisis. Throughout his
life he had an obstinacy akin to that of insanity. He was
an obstinate and an evil influence ; he could not be turned
from what was inexpedient; by the aid of his station he
turned truer but weaker men from what was expedient.
He prolonged the American war,
perhaps he caused the war. So we inherit the
vestiges of an American hatred; he forebade
Mr. Pitt’s wise plans, so we inherit an Irish
difficulty. He would not let us do right iu time, so now
our attempts at right are out of time and fruitless. Con-
stitutional royalty under an active and half-insane king is
one of the worst of Governments. There is in it a secret
power which is always eager, which is generally obstinate,
which is often wrong, which rules Ministers more than
they know themselves, which overpowers them much
more than the public believe, which is irresponsible
because it is inscrutable, which cannot be prevented
because it cannot be seen. The benefits of a good
monarch are almost invaluable, but the evils of
a bad monarch are almost irreparable
A constitutional sovereign must in the common course of
government be a man of but common ability. I am
afraid, looking to the early acquired feebleness of
hereditary dynasties, that we must expect him to be a
man of interior ability. Theory and experience both
teach that the education of a prince can be but a poor
education, and that a royal family will generally have
less ability than other families. What right have we
then to expect the perpetual entail on any family of an
exquisite discretion, which, if it be not a sort of genius, is
at least as rare as genius? . . . The great abilities and
good intentions that are necessary to make an efficient and
good despot never were continuously combined in any
line of rulers. They are far out of the reach of hereditary
human nature. Can it be said that the characteristic
qualities of a constitutional monarch are more within its
reach ? I am afraid not. The characteristic use of
an hereditary constitutional monarch greatly surpasses
the ordinary competence of hereditary faculties.
, • ■. • ■ It is idle to expect an ordinary man
born m the purple to have greater genius than an
extraordinary man born out of the purple ; to expect a
man whose place has always been fixed to have a better
judgment than one who has lived by his judgment; to
expect a man whose career will be the same whether he is
discreet or whether he is indiscreet to have the nice dis-
cretion of one who has risen by his wisdom, who will fall
ii he ceases to be wise.
*
The Sacred Pocket of the Taxpayer.
There are some questions on which the Sydney
Morning Herald is hopelessly befogged;
others on which it attempts to befog its readers.
On the latter occasions its attempts are only
likely to succeed with those who are willing to
lie deceived. As a sample, take a late leader on
the unemployed difficulty, and the ideas of cer-
tain labour members that it might he solved by
means of village settlement. Even Parties—
in a sentence that almost paraphrased the
words of the labour member who first brought
village settlement before the Assembly’s notice
—has declared that “in a country where we
have untold acres of crude, unoccupied 'land, it
is a shame to have unoccupied human'creatures
without an effort to enable 'them to turn this
land into a fruitful region of the State tto which
they belong.” But the Herald— not objecting
(that money should be borrowed for the pur-
pose of constructing railways, whose chief pur-
pose was to enrich the land-grabber over whose
estates they ;ran— objects to money being
borrowed for the purposes of “relief works,”
as it disingenuously styles co-operativ'e settle-
ment, on the grounds that it (the money) must
■come out of the pockets of the taxpayer. Now,
we would ask the Herald to carry on its argu-
ment to its logical conclusion and advocate that
the unemployed should be allowed to starve. At
present the poor wh® can’t find remunerative
work are supplied “ out of the pockets of the
taxpayer,” publicly and privately with relief;;
hospitals, benevolent asylums and soup-kitchens
are constructed and maintained, also “ out of the
pockets of the taxpayer,” 'as are gads, for those
compulsorily made sick, feeble and criminal by
compulsory idleness and the evils that follow in
its train. In the interests of ** the pockets of the
taxpayer,” these persons should fee hurried out
of existence by being absolutely 'denied subsis-
tence ? But the Herald’s argument even more
disingenuously mis-states the case. It has
always been one of the main arguments of those
who favour village settlement, after stating
their desire to give men, willing to work, an
opportunity to be self-supporting, that it
would lighten the burdens of taxation. Those
to whom all the avenues of labour are closed
year after year (the numbers yearly increase
though the components may change) remain a
burden to the State; provided with fixed
employment by village settlement their first
charge, when the land became fully capable of
sustaining life, would be the repayment, by
instalments, of the State loan. That accom-
plished, the acres and the hands, once un-
occupied and a source of expense to the whole
community, might, under the leasehold system,
become a yearly source of revenue that would
amply repay the community for the initial
expense. Meantime, in the sacred name of
“the pockets of the taxpayers,” in the holy
interests of cash down, we ask the S.M. Herald
to be consistent and to call on the Government
to abolish at once all these charitable institu-
tions that never can by any means become
reproductive and self-supporting.
-*
A Word to the N.S.W. Democratic Party.
Now that the N.S.W. Legislative Council has
passed the Electoral Bill with the addition of
the Argus vote for “ Thrift,” there is a very
plain and logical course open to the Hires
Ministry, That is to accept the Bill as it now
stands, and then resume the fight on the man-
hood suffrage principle next session. The
measure, even as botched by the House of
kidney-fits, contains many great improvements
on the present system ; among other things, it
reduces the bulk of the overgrown Assembly,
and it cuts down all the twelve and twenty-vote
properly-holders to two votes only, thereby
reducing the total voting power of mere bricks
and mortar very materially. If the Govern-
ment declines to accept it, the whole elaborate
scheme will have once more to be talked and
wrangled over next session from the first
clause to the last, and when another year has
been wasted, the Council may reject it al-
together, and the valuable advantages now offered
may be entirely lost. And, on the other hand,
if the Government accepts, at least three-fourths
of the great reform will be definitely secured.
Then, as the first public business of next session
(the House can be prorogued and another session
begun within ten days), it can introduce a bill
in one clause, providing that the last semblance
of the property-vote shall be abolished. Such
a bill could be passed through all its stages
in the Assembly (where no man dare oppose
it) in three hours, and if the Council thought
fit to reject it, there still remains the resource
of swamping that conservative institution with
new nominees. If the Ministry refuses to
accept the measure of success which it has
secured it can only be because it wants an
excuse for wrecking the manhood suffrage prin-
ciple indefinitely, and is glad of a chance to do
so and strike a noble, unyielding attitude at
one and the same moment; or else because it
wants the Electoral Bill as a war-cry with
which to stump the country in view of a coming
general election ; or—as a third alternative —
because it wants to spend next session in
wrangling over that weary, ill-fated bill once
more in order that it may not have time to
revise the tariff and attend to certain other
measures on which it might ultimately be
wrecked.
A correspondent sends to The Bulletin the
following cut from Walter Besant’s “ The
Captain’s Room,” written before the apostate
Griffith legalised the Queensland South Sea
slave-trade :
A man may carry Chinese coolies to Trinidad, Peru, or
Cuba, but under what pretences he inveigles them aboard 1
what promises he makes them, and how much he gets for
each, no one outside the trade, which is a limited com-
pany, knows or discovers. You might sooner hope to
learn the secret of the Roval Arch. Again, you
may ship cooliis for Reunion. They are British
subjects, but they are taken on board at
Pondicherry, which is a French settlement. And
the like mystery surrounds each transaction in Hindoo
flesh. Lastly, there is a delightful pastime still carried
on in Polynesia, known as 11 the labour traffic.” Opinions
differ as to the beneficial results of a few years of coolie-
dom in Queensland. For, whereas some authorities say
that the Polynesian learns the blessings of second-hand
reach-me-down-suits with a smattering of Christianity,
with which to astonish his relatives, the Browns, on ids
return, others declare that the extra garments are dis-
carded as soon as he lands, the rudiments of the
Christian faith forgotten, and only the taste for ruin
remains. I know not which is right, because, in
order to decide the point, one ought to live along
with the native Polynesians and with Australian
colonists, in order to hear both sides of the question, and
no controversialist has as yet done that. One thing, how-
ever, is quite certain, that the coolies embark for various
reasons, among which no one has as yet pretended to find
a desire to toil on the Queensland sugar plantations. Toil
of any kind is indeed the last thing which these children
of the Equatorial Pacific desire. Rest is what they love,
or, if any exercise, then a languid swim in tepid waters,
a dance.
Hear Bulletin, —The greatest troubles in
Australian politics seem to lie that every
Government promises to have a surplus at the
beginning of the year and pans out with a
deficiency ; and every Cabinet starts the session
by promising to pass Urgent measures and never
does pass 'them ; and every member promises
his constituents that 'he will dh his utmost to
support certain principles, and then goes back
on them. Nebody—'until now—has found any
remedy for this accursed inconsistency, but it
is unanimously agreed that a remedy is urgently
wanted. Therefore, I wish to offer the follow-
ing suggestion, which, ; I think, not only pro-
vides a positive cure for almost every kind of
political inconsistency, but is also calculated 'to
appeal Strongly 'to the instincts of a sporting
community. Let'every politician be required
to back his consistency with a bet. Fdr in-
stance, the Treasurer must, in the first place,
be required to bring out a visible cash surplus
every year-—when he doesn’t bring out a sur-
plus ihis billet 'thereby becomes vacant. When
he produces his‘estimates and states the amount
of the prospective surplus he should be'required
to lay the Consolidated Revenue £lOOO to £5O,
which, I think, are reasonable'odds,that the said
surplus will be forthcoming. He must depend
to some extent, of course, on his subordinates,
but they should also be required to bet on the
accuracy of their departmental estimates, which
would probably keep them straight. When
Government promises to pass 'certain measures
■during the session,, it should be compelled
to back itself separately on each item, and
if it fails to pass any measure, it must
pay tip. A special official, to be called the
State Bookmaker, could collect the bets and
keep the accounts. In a similar fashion, the
candidate who promises to vote for certain
principles should be made to back Ihis con-
sistency with his constituents at reasonable
odds, and put the money up with the nearest
reliable bank; all lost bets to go to the
local School of Arts. In this manner, a con-
sistent and energetic Ministry could make con-
siderable additions to its salary, and a Cabinet
which was a chronic failure would presently be
sold up by the State Bookmaker and abolished.
Ministers who hadn’t the ready cash to put up,
could give orders on their salary. The Minis-
terial bets would, of course, apply to the
Assembly only ; the Government represen-
tative in the Council would have to back
himself separately. In consideration of
the extra difficulty of his position, he would
necessarily give much shorter odds than
the Ministers in the Lower House —in
fact, the Consolidated Revenue should lay
even money to the representative of a Radical
Cabinet in the average Council. Any member
moving a no-confidence resolution should be
required, as a preliminary, to back himself to
win for, say, £lOO at sto 1. Also a “ tote ”
should be open in the House every night, and
every member desiring to move an adjourn-
ment, or divide the House, or make any similar
interruption should first of all have to take a
£5 ticket, the member whose motion is carried
to scoop the pool, less 10 per cent, which might
go towards reducing the State debt. This pro-
position, I hold, is strictly constitutional.
When a man wants to stand for Parliament the
Treasury compels him to gamble £4O to nothing
that he will get a certain number of votes —in
other words, be is required to bet that he will
get in or somewhere near it. Why shouldn’t
he also be required to bet that he’ll keep
reasonably straight when he is in ?—Yours, &c.,
Titus Salt,
Dear Bulletin, —In the last will and testa-
ment of the late Charles Dickens are the
following emphatic words : —“ I direct that my
name be inscribed in plain English letters on
my tomb, without the addition of ‘Mr.’ or
‘ Esquire.’ I conjure my friends on no account
to make me the subject of any monument,
memorial, or testimonial whatever. I rest my
claim to the remembrance of my country on
my published works, and to the remembrance
of my friends upon their experience of me in
addition thereto.” The meaning of these words
cannot be mistaken. They were set down a
year before the novelist’s death, whilst his
faculties were undimmed. This desire of the
great novelist has been scrupulously regarded
by his countrymen in Britain. In Westminster
Abbey a plain slab in the floor denotes his last
resting-place, and his name is plainly carved on
the slab. There is no monument, bust, or
statue, such as invariably mark the resting-
places of England’s other illustrious dead. A
proposal to erect a statue of Dickens was
recently defeated in London County Council, on
the ground that it would be a violation of his
last plainly-expressed desire. It remained for
Parkes to flout the injunctions of Dickens.
That poet’s eye, in a fine frenzy rolling,
lighted upon Sydney Centennial Park, and
the gifted statesman and poet proceeded to
set up there statues to other gifted statesmen
and poets ; and now the landscape is spoilt by a
series of frock-coated, trousered, vulgar, marble
presentments of Disraeli, Gladstone, Lin-
coln, Thackeray, Dickens, and other victims.
To call these works of art would be absurd.
They are worthy neither of the men they
represent nor of the Australian nation. They
are worthy only of Mr. Henry Parkes. And
especially the stumpy, stodgy statue of the
dead novelist, Dickens, whose last sacred in-
structions are thereby grossly violated, is a
double insult to the dead and the living—a
disgrace to the Government of New South
Wales which sanctioned its erection, and a dis-
grace to any Government which allows it to
remain standing after public attention has been
called to it.—Yours truly, Savage.
The 6th March will be the centenary of the
Australian newspaper press.
The Victorian Railway Department issues
a printed monthly record of the names, mis-
demeanours and punishments of all offending
officials. The latest thus notes among the “ mis-
demeanours,” two offences—(l) “Allowing four
passengers to miss their train”; (2) “ Fcrmittimj
carrier to take goods away without his (mis-
demeanant’s) knowledge. ”
Nine members of the N.S.W. Ministry
claim .£5OOO each, or, in all, <£45,000 libel damages,
in respect of an allegation of corruption said to
have been made by Sydney Daily Tkleorai'H.
The journal, however, strongly denies that the
article complained of will bear the construction
imputed, and avers that it has never in any way
challenged or wished to challenge the personal
honour of the Government.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS,
“ 0.0.” : We muchiprefer shoift stories to long.
Try something of sixty lines, not of six thousand
“ Kyrle Nutt ”: Very rugged. One verse will satisfy thf
ipublic yearning:—
Trillahn “Midnight” seems to be a cheap clearing
sale of damaged pathos and inferior job sentiment....
“ Absolom B.”> Very good item.. .. “Sganarell”:
Thanks “ Abel Jones The man who went to utter
ruin through drink is overdone. Can’t you write the
story of the bulky teetotal glutton who was beggared by
roast turkey and soda-water ? “ Plebeian ” : Only the
poet who has hanged himself and been cut down at the
last moment by a policeman, and fined 40s. or seven days,
can do justice to the suicide’s story. You haven’t hanged
.yourself.... “(Logwood Chips”-: Will possibly use
•‘Foyle” (Melb.): Your “jokes” were invented by a
neolithic humorist, and written with a bone implement
on a rock... “N.W.”; A good little Sunday-school story.
The Bulletin, alas, isn’t a Sunday-school... ."Charles
C.” (Alexandra): We have heard 'enough about Giffen’s
brother in prose. The man who sends us ill-spelt and
blotted verse about him does it at the risk of his life. ..
“The -Smoker”; It would take longer to patch your
literary style than the style is worth “The Orphan ” :
Cut it short. The horse bolted. A red-headed, coatless
man stopped it just as it was going over a dirty small
boy. The red-headed man was injured. She nursed him.
He afterwards asked her if she loved him, and she said
she didn’t. He then decided that he didn’t, either....
“ M.V.” (Armidale); Thanks “Walter Goodwin”
(Murrumbidgee): You are woefully ignorant of law. The
object of Botany Bay law is to hang the right man if
possible, but anyhow to hang somebody “R.E.D.”:
Such things as “Bitter gourds on her grave are growing”
sound well, but they don’t mean any more than a pump-
kin sprouting on a sepulchre “ The Seer ” (Carcoar):
Nobody in this world ever reads massive hexameters
about Beauty and Terewth and similar abstractions....
“A.C.T.” (Perth): Many thanks....“ R.A.8.”: That tale
has been here so often that it could find its way to the
office a10ne..,, “Dead Finish”: There is no sense in the
beginning of your “ reminiscences,” no reason in their
continuance, and they lead nowhere and never get there,
“Madge, Kitty," &c,: The Bulletin is edited by a
man, and it’s no good applying to a man for instructions
about capturing a husband. What do you want one for
in any case? The average married woman is a drudge
with her mouth full of clothes-pegs who gets prematurely
old trying to keep the flies off the baby “ Billybong ”;
The one-legged man with his left boot on his right foot,
who sits on his naked enemy’s head in the bath, is a
coarse, inartistic horror “B. Green”: We know
nothing about baby-shows. Write to Melbourne Leader
or Australasian. .. “C.L.S.” (Woollahra): A tale needs
to have at least a semblance of something unusual about
it to be worth publishing. Yours is dreadfully usual
“C. J. de la L.” (Melb.); “Sarcastic dialogue” to hand.
At least the dialogue is to hand but the sarcasm
hasn’t arrived “ E.E.” (Paeroa): Good verse
“Such a Nailer”: There is no climax “Horizontal
Scrub ” : “ Possum Flat ” utterly belies the promise (and
performance) of “Our Musical Neighbour.”....“ Toni
Collins ” ; Thanks.. . “Pnaon” ; Condense, condense
“J. T. M‘C.”: Good subject, if original, but irrepro-
ducible as it stands. You should study at a life-class
“Whylea” (Fern., Melb.): Very nicely written, but
founded on snips of several hackneyed plots “ J.G.”
(Cam., Mel.): Take your Chow cabbagee-man’s patter-
song to a theatrical manager and get him to engage Lance
Lenton to sing it in co. with a coster. It’s well enough
for stage purposes, but not for print “The Wood-
adder” : No material is too slender for a tale, but ycu
haven’t succeeded with “The H.” “Helix”: You
seem to have enclosed the wrong cutting, .<.“ Fitzjohn
H.”: The parable of the wolves and the sheep is stupid
and misplaced. If the workers are “ sheep,” what is the
good of telling them to rise and assert themselves? The
sheep never rises until it is dead and elevated on a hook
“ Corinth ” : Good verse. We will lend you the book
you copied it out of if you like “Lavender” : The
N.S.W. Government, we believe, does not intend to pro-
vide for the retrenched Civil servants in the Income Tax
Office. We will bet one high collar against a set of false
teeth that they will be pensioned out of the bankrupt
Superannuation Fund, while the new office will be filled
by the unemployed relations of politicians “ Omega”;
Amusing, but over ■ coarse “Queensland Chips”:
Excellent.. “H.W.”: “The Shrimp” smacks not of
Australia, but of the Californian Sierras.... “ Wandering
Jew ” : You wander all right enough. Boil it down by 99J
per cent “W.R.R.": Yes, certainly persevere.
“Taramung” melodious, but too closely on the heels of
some verses by John Farrell, “ The Bell of the Ly-ee-
Moon.” “R. de S.” : Is “Plunket” factor fiction?
“Jerry Grumble”: Bulk official statistics are more
reliable than detailed newspaper reports. The Bulletin
is not Irish. Nor is it (like you, apparently) North of
Ireland “S. Djrtsg”: Thanks. . “Grey Gunn”
(G.E.): A good subject “W.F.G.”: Things labelled
“tit-bits” are invariably stupid. The word always
pictures a fat man with a napkin tucked under his chin
breathing stertorously into turtle-soup “Herbert
C.” : The ground of your thoughtful verses fully covered
by Randolph Bedford’s “ Cry of a Clod,” lately published
in Bulletin “J. A. Andrews”; Letter for you at
Bulletin office “F. T.” (Arc.): Thanks. The ground,
however, has been pretty well covered— “A. Conway ”;
We are now tired of the “warrigal” controversy
“T.L.F.” (O.): Thanks “ W.J.8.” : To hand.. ..
“ J.H.C.” : Bans Igr. gold to 20cwt. mullock “ R.S.”
(Parkville): Not quite m our way “H.R.8.”: “Iphi-
genia ” merely a roundabout statement of fact; conden-
sable into eight lines “J. Fellows”: They weren’t
designed to represent anyone in particular “The
Worker”: Several at least are not original “Sassa-
fras ” : As in your story there is little to tell, everything
depends on the telling. It could be profitably condensed
by two-thirds—yea, even, perhaps, by three-thirds. Try
again ... “The Wanderer ” : Some rather old, all weak-
“Bob. W.”( Vic.); Same old story of the same cul-
chawed young man from ’Ome, who comes out to manage
his uncle’s station, and finds the station hands a lot of
savages “ Marguerite ” : Unsuitable, if only because of
its length ;it would make 40 columns— “Aluminium ” :
A good thought. Why not put it into less rugged verse ?
...“Anti-Humbug”: Of course we can’t print your
libels ...“Signor Fabian”; Letter posted to E.M., P.O
“ Walkabout Ned ”: Thanks.
“ Wellington will never be forgotten—nor
Pilate.”—Heine.
Bismarck, in a recent interview with a
French journalist, hints the possibility of a
Franco-German alliance, as “the struggle of the
Governments of Europe against the rising wave of
Socialism is far more important than any terri-
torial question.”
Said a Belgian Jew banker at the recent
monetary conference : “The world itself scarcely
suffices for our activity.” The Israelite is already
looking forward to the time when he will foreclose
on a'l the earth under his bill of sale, and is won-
dering what he is to do next to get shecurity for
his monish.
If e’er I journey dut of towh
To plant some dear departed,
I note the weeping- -widow there,
The children broken-hearted.
But finer feelingsall are crushed,
And I am quite unnerved,
When I hear it whispered softly: “ HoW
The Bishop’s legs are curved !”


THE DEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid to Policy-holders in Forty-nine Yeais
—BY
MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK
Funds Exceed £33,150,000.
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Profits paid to Policy-
holders. litmuses larger than in any otlier company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and
we will foi ward you an illustration of the benefits to ho obtained under modern forms of life and
investment assurances, in which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
innne Lately upon receipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Company’s
agencies !' r ighout the world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
Principal Agency: ... ... 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCUKs: 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE; QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
The Oldßleful
W!\isig
of i*iu ITE H° rse
WH I' p Cellar
.JMffISSS?'
Edinburgh.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
OYAL “ The World Against Her.'
Hek, Majesty’s “Hoodman Blind.”
Lyceum “Miss Esmeralda.’'
Criterion “The Times.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WE Eli.
PRINCESS'S “ Dorothy.”
Theatre Royal Natives’ Opera Co.
Fillis’ Circus and Menagerie.
A new and somewhat stragglesome com-
pany opened at Sydney Royal on Saturday night
in “The World Against Her,” a big, solid drama
in six massive slabs, with great quantities of dis-
tressed heroine in it, a large, healthy villain,
sundry unshaven under-villains, a stolen che-ild
ill-used in a damp cellar, a funny man, and a raw
hero. The drama is based on the well-known fact
that when a devoted and happy wife calls at her
husband’s place of business at a time when he
happens to be out, that husband’s affection
immediately fades away, ho becomes eaten up by
dark suspicions, and presently gets a divorce.
With this well-known and old-established circum-
stance for a' basis, the piece prospers remarkably.
The divorced wife is driven back and forward
over the face of England until the soles of
her feet get hard with much travelling. Ou four
separate occasions she haughtily orders the villain
to leave the house, with her arm stretched out in
front of her and tho hand pointing slightly down-
wards ; on one occasion he laughs a bitter laugh
and goes, and the other three times he smiles
triumphantly and doesn’t go. The funny man
once engages in mortal combat with the principal
hired ruffian, and knocks him out. The hero three
times walks rapidly out of the room in a broken
voice, driving the door violently in front of him,
and once he stands in an unnatural calm amid the
ruins of his lost happiness. On eight separate
occasions the suffering mother clings fondly to her
only daughter; and twice the
Inst girl laughs the reckless laugh
of despair and refuses to quit
her life of gilded sin. The
troubles of the wronged wife
end in an ivy-c'ad cottage with
creepers over the front porch,
and the villain wears evening
dress most of the time.
# * #
The company consists
largely of tail. Mr. Baker is a
light and smiling villain who
seems supremely happy in his
wickedness, and he can be highly
recommended to any family
which wants a really agreeable
scoundrel about the house. The
lost girl is Miss Edith Blande,
who plays much better than
she used to do, but who looks
so dreadfully and utterly lost
that her reformation is practi-
cally hopeless. Mrs. Molyneux
is evidently unhappy in the
uncongenial character of the
damaged wife, though she does
good work in the traditional
black dress; but that joyous
comedian, Harry Leston, Miss
Flora Anstead, and Mr. Plim-
mer (as a brutal ruffian in a
cellar) are all commendable.
The rest of the company con-
sists mainly of a feeble and
sketchy young lady, a dreadful
person with uncertain legs, a
banged and ill-used woman in
a damp place underground, a
wobblesotne individual with a
dreary countenance, like the
countenance of a horse, and
another man. The hero is
p'aved by the other man, whose
distressing woo dullness was
never so apparent before, and
who grits his teeth dreadfully in
moments of emotion, and seemingly tries to hois
tuT Hell- the „' V T Bt - , ? ome , day or ol ! ,er
The Bulletin will be betrayed into saying
something severe about the other man.
# 4* 4* 4.
In consequence of Lionel Rignold’s early
departure Bull wards, there will be no more of
“ London Day by Day ” at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney) after Friday. On that memorable even-
ing Cousin Lionel takes a benefit, and “Hoodman
Blind ” will occupy the stage on the ensuing night,
Cousin Lionel would have been a bigger success if
it had not been that the previous advent of Mr.
Riguold's big brother Bill had led the public to
expect*too much.. There is seldom more than one
Bill in a family—in fact, very few families have
one. Still the ilepat ting Lionel will be favourably
remembered as an individual who could extra t
more humour out of the howling cockney than
auy other c ickuey humourist of recent years, and
the soul of the gallery will pine after him when
lie is gone. The al»ove remark may not be unmiti-
puff, but at least it is better than nothing,
and when Lionel is very ill in the lee scuppers,
Wit!i the tails of his wonderful fur coat flying iu
the gale, it may po sibly bring some measure of
coinfoi t to his troubled sou).
_
“The Times,” afc Sydney Criterion, are
not out of joint, and that tragic comedy is doing
about as much business as the house will hold. It
looked exceedingly well the first night, and it has
looked even better since. There is a powerful
moral lesson in every one of the characters, from
the elevated draper and his cub down to old
woman Hooley. Titheradge’s faint and shambling
old fop grows more wonderful day by day; and
the problem of how such a person could continue
to live, and wobble on his stiff legs over the face
of nature, and daily bounce the Scythe-bearer
with the hollow pretence that ho was still too
young to die, is past explanation. The awful
drunkenness and ponderous stupidity of the cub,
and the fatuousness of young woman Hooley— old
woman Hooley’s daughter—and the derangement
of the broken and shattered draper, have lost none
of their interest. In fact, “ The Times” is as good
as new and promises to continue indefinitely.
*« * *
A benefit performance—the biggest, it is
hoped, ever given in Sydney—will eventuate at
Her Majesty’s next Wednesday (22nd) in aid of
the sufferers by the Queensland Hoods. Among
those who will assist are the Criterion, Opera
House, Her Majesty’s, and Gaiety Burlesque
companies, Messrs. Mayne, Goodman, McDonald,
Bailey and Spong, and most of the other members
of the profession now in Sydney. Mr. Rignold
gives his theatre for the occasion, and Messrs.
Rolf and Marcus and Andrew undertake to do
the printing free. Every local individual of im-
portance, and many individuals who want to look
important, will be present or will lend their
“patronage.’’ Messrs. Titheradge, Courtneidge
and Phillips arc the committee in charge; Mr,
Bailey acts as secretary, and Mr. G. L. Goodman
as treasurer.
* * -M »
Next Monday evening the Gaiety company
will commence to farewell some more at Sydney
Lyceum, in “ Miss Esmeralda.” The cast includes
Misses Clara Meri vale, Alice Leamar, Conyers,
Lethbridge, Kate. Barrie, Messrs. Lbnnen, Court-
neidge, and Bert Haslem.
** * *
Sydney Garrick is next Saturday to be re-
christened the “Tivoli,” and Harry Rickards
establishes himself there as a permanent institu-
tion. The Bulletin wishes him every success ;
and at the same time it begs to state that it regards
the new name as stupid, meaningless, and suffi-
ciently hackneyed to bring ill-luck on any theatre.
FALK, PHOTOGRAPHER.
MR. G. L. GOODMAN (Treasurer, Sydney Lyceum Theatre).
Mr. Geo. L. Goodman, whose portrait
Appears in this week’s issue, is probably about the
best known man in N.S.W. theatrical circles. An
Englishman by birth, and a Hebrew by religion,
he was born in the Commercial-road, London, in
1 845 . and first came to Sydney in ’54. He finally
sett l e d in Australia in ’GO. He appeared with
success as an amateur actor, in 70, at the
Frmce of Wales Theatre (now known as Sydney
Royal), and for nine years afterwards was recog-
pised as the leading amateur of the city. In ISJ9
“ e made his first theatrical venture, when he
tourcH the country with Camilla Urso, the famous
violinist. In June 1880 he became acting-manager
and treasurer at Sydney Royal, then under the
management of Mr. Arthur Garner, and con-
tinned in that position until the old structure
was burnt in ’O2. During that period he
represented Messrs. Williamson, Garner and
Musgrove (individually and collectively), Allison,
Lazar, Majeroni, Hiscocks, Dampier, Bland Holt,
Simonsen, Brough, Boucicault, Wybert Reeve
and loole. He has received valuable presenta-
t'ons from almost all the leading actors and
actresses wdio have visited Australia of recent
m’. jndiiig Dion Boucicault (senior), Fred,
Lt-sli' l , S ira Bernhardt, Nellie Farrell,
Bei-re, Mrs. I’ojtcr, ami several dozen others, also
rc.-ently from the citizens of Sydney, and (in
Rom the Hebrew Philanthropic Society, of
which he acted for 11 years as secretary. His
marriage with a charming young Jewish lady is
anticipated at an early date. Mr. Goodman is
now noting-manager and treasurer at Sydney
Lyceum.
** * *
On Saturday last a swimming carnival was
held at Manly for the benefit of Mr. E. Cavill, the
well-known swimmer. There were 12 events on
the programme, including a children’s swimming-
match, diving exhibition, all-clothes race, polo
match under water, and the famous rescue of the
drowning man. The drowning man, Mr. R. A.
Luckham, of Thk Bulletin, fell overboard in his
bell-topper and jewellery, and being captured by
Mr. Cavill was towed ashore in haste by the hair,
his rescuer pouring water over him from the
top-hat as they went along to revive him.
The amateur championship was won in fine style
by Mr. W. G. Anslow, The “ all-clothes race,”
for swimmers in full dress, fell to Mr. F. Smith, a
person burdened with a bell-topper being left far
in the rear. The net profits amounted to <£3s.
Dr. Molyneux acted as referee, and gave every
satisfaction.
* * tic- *
The doors of Melbourne Royal didn’t close
with the pantomime season after all. On Satur-
day night the public were invited to roll up and
whoop in a patriotic manner for a company
described as “an Australian Natives’ Association,
consisting of descendants from old colonists, who
formauy years were popular, talented and well-
known members of the dramatic and musical pro-
fession.” For the sake of their alleged ancestors
The Bulletin withholds its everlasting curse
from the principals of this weird, peculiar com-
pany, without acknowledging the claim of any
young person to trade upon the fact that his or
her grandfather was in the same line of business.
The Natives’ Association now under notice would
seem to have started off with an idea of being a
juvenile opera crowd, and to have slightly departed
from its first resolution in consequence of chil-
dren being scarce. As compared with Tom Pol-
lard’s chickens these are old birds, innocent of
stage art, but no longer remarkable for joyous
infancy. Generally speaking, they are neither
young enough to interest, nor sufficiently
seasoned to be worth consideration in
strong acting opera like “ Rip Van Winkle.” A
lanky, treble-voiced stripling, oppressed by the
necessity for seeming a reckless inebiiate or a
pathetic ruin, is not much of a dramatic spectacle,
especially when he hasn’t a full allowance of face
or nose. And “Rip Van Winkle,” either as an
opera or drama, is entirely dependant on the per-
formance of the name part. Seme of the young
girls engaged are promising vocalists, noticeably
Minnie Sexton, Evelyn Harte, and Cynthia
Cary, but taken seriously, the show is rather a
regretable incident, the chorus and orchestra being
as thin as the ankles are thick. The best points
about “ Rip ” are probably the scenery and danc-
ing, in which latter department a Miss Ada
Lempriere showed a good deal of agility and
grace. The attraction of a little free and easy
kicking will scarcely establish this Natives’ Asso-
ciation on a paying basis, however.
** * *
Next Saturday the Royal Comic Opera
Company proper will come back like the prodigal
to Melbourne Princess’, bringing their fatted
calves with them. It is so long a time since
beautiful Ryley and the rest went away that they
will open out quite fresh on this occasion, and are
sure of a warm welcome from a city which has
had to subsist upon two pantomimes and a circus
for weeks at a stretch. “Dorothy” is appointed
to lead the way through a series of short revivals,
and the appearance of a new Lurcher in George
Lauri promises a spice of excitement in the hear-
ing of this oft-told tale,
** » *
Meanwhile ‘‘The Forty Thieves ” is ebbing
away in a succession of complimentary benefits.
The Faust Family farewelled on Tuesday, and
Lonnen enjoyed an extra special matinee the fol-
lowing afternoon. To-morrow (Friday) the last
night of the season, will be dedicated to Snazelle,
who, at time of writing, was making extensive
preparations for a grand programme. Not that
there is an instance on record of any programme
being other than “grand.”
** * *
The Circus thrives as before, in spite of
the unlooked-for amiability of the four lions and
their distant acquaintance, the Bengal tiger. One
day last week a violent hot wind blew holes in
the tent and necessitated a cessation of business,
but with this trifling exception, Fillis has been a
constant boom. The Water Pantomime appeals
considerably to householders whose supply of
temperance liquor is limited these times, and
although this novel item is decidedly weak in
aquatic low comedy, the fault might be easily
remedied by emptying a barrel of whisky into the
stage, and allowing the elephants to dive under
the pantomime until they became drunk and dis-
orderly. In their present condition, the elephants
are somewhat tiring. Also the educated pig
would be all the better for getting beastly intoxi-
cated.
** * *
To-day (Thursday) the National Baby
Show commences operations at the Exhibition.
Two or three hundred pledges of affection are
coloured on the card, and it is rumoured that the
sale price of each cherub will lie marked in plain
figures. The Gaiety and St. George’s Halls
struggle along bravely, but the usual Saturday
night concert at the Exhibition will this week be
replaced by the groans of disappointed parents
who haven’t scooped a prize.
** * *
On Friday the Circus gives a matinee for
the relief of the Queensland flood sufferers. Mr.
Fillis will hand over the gross receipts, so people
paying their money at the pigeon-holes can con-
sider t hat they are making a contribution to the
Flood Fund, and getting a free-pass to the show.
•T. C. Williamson, also, is already to the fore in
this good cause, and a meeting of the purfesh to
organise a gigantic day performance at the Prin-
cess' was held last Monday. For the outcome of
which meeting see advts.
At Poverty Point.
Naught can parall 1 the vanity of your star actor. He
goes up to the girl who sweeps out the dress-circle and
asks, “ Do you like me?”
I'illis lost £3OO last week, through a wind-stricken
circus and a show missed.
A well known Sadney actor loudly boasted in public,
the other night, that there isn't a woman in all Australia
whom he couldn’t bring to kneel before him. The Inu-e
lout, with the big teeth he bought in the shop !
Madame Fillis has the finest hair ever seen in the circus
ring, and has a trick of letting it down, by accident, when
her hat falls off, and the lovely auburn tresses wash the
horse’s flanks.
The great and only Verdi keeps a small pub. just out-
side .lohannesh rg. Emilio Meh ille is much to the fore
there. Apart from the liquor-trade Verdi and Emilie
knock cut a good thing in connection with opera. It
sometimes happens that companies of but limited
repertoire arrive at Johanncsherg. lUg runs being un-
known there, when the one or two Opel ns are plavrdOUt
Verdi and Co. come to the rescue, and for this they get
big pay, sometimes as much as £SH a week.
The Australian' Star, commenting on the “ thrifti-
ness ” of tlte late 1" red. Leslie and of distinguished modern
comedians in general; ‘.‘-They tow make their art a busi-
ness. The gifted genial vagabond favourite of the gods
has gone, and in his stead there is a man who recognises
his duty to his wife and children.” Unfortunate com
tnent Leslie also recognised his duty to the O tW
fellow s wife.
In Brisbane once, Morton Tavares, the tragedian
complaining to Johnny Hydes, his stage manager about
the drunkenness of some member of the company, p/
plied Johnny—“l never knew a clever man yet wlm
taller” r i" k ‘ tlle * J - ve ’ Tavares, you are a tecto-
The Bijou is sadly missed in Melbourne. Brough’s
Terryism and out-Tooling Toole, Mrs. Brough’s delbqit.fni
intimacy, Ti:heradge’s worldly'wisdom, Ward’s neck-nanp
scratohery, Bouoy’s pert versatility, Pattie Brown’s uerkv
piquancy, Anson’s good old sturgeonism - why, the sun’«
gone out. This is the real gap in the Paris of the South.
Lven before the boom, Melbourne kept five theatres in
full fig. What has become of Thespian appetite ?
Louise M. Pomeroy Elliott died at New York of mien
monia, Jan. 7. Sha was the divorced wife of “Brick’’
Pomeroy, the howling Western editor. Mrs. Elliott was
40 years old, and was the wife of Arthur Elliott, foitnerlv
Of Australia. •>
Annie Leaf, once well known in Maoriland as a kind of
pnma donna, is now married to one Edwards, the leading
tenor in Carl Rosa’s provincial companies. She does not
, no " appear on the stage herself. She and Charley Hard
ing don’t speak. ’ ''
Walter Bentley is resting in Sydney, where Lohr is
gathering him a co. tor his Adelaide season.
T. V. Twinning, now in India with Mrs. Shaw the
nffleuse, has been making dates for Mrs. Potter and Kvrie
Bellew. J c
Wiegand found it almost impossible to land in Brisbane
on account of the flood, and quite impossible to give bis
proposed organ recitals there. Therefore, be is back in
Sydney, £lOO out of pocket, so he says.
Some misguided person advertises in a Sydney paper
for someone “ willing to form a company for the produc-
tion °f a new sensational colonial drama for the benefit of
flood sufferers.” The individual who proposes to
‘ benefit” anyone by such means is a fit subject for
Gladesville Asylum.
The apology in that Melbourne theatrical scandalising
would more discreetly have been kept private.
Somebody hands us an essay on “The Long Girl.” She
is St. Alelanoholia, a vestal priestess of the sacred lamp of
burlesque. With lack-lustre eye, and legs devoid of all
feeling of their business, she stands like a clothes-horse-
says the author mixing his metaphor a bit. He defies
you to find a sft. lOin. St. Melancholia that ever hadarav
of voice, or could really dance a step, or do anythin" but
caryatidize. ' °
Marie Halton has re-opened the Shaftesbury Theatre
(London) with a new comic opera. Elton and Frank
Thornton in the cast.
A London paper: “ It is a notorious fact that Mr, J L
Toole’s admirers are to be found chiefly in the provinces'
several of his London seasons, even in the tiny theatre m
King William-street, having been bj r no means remunera-
tive. But ‘Walker, London,’ is too laughable a piece to
be missed by playgoers, and respect for a time-honoured
and blameless servant of the public may for once be
associated with genuine entertainment.” Rather rou'di
on time-honoured acting.
Correspondents to Melbourne Standard think “the
announcement that the Speaker was present at a Rotunda
Sunday concert is calculated to send a thrill of horror
through the community.” And this of a comraunily that
has stood Bent for all these years without any particular
qualms ! Bent at a Sunday concert is comparatively inno-
cuous. He is only a howling infliction in the House.
A diving-dress and life-belt will doubtless be amongst
the wardrobes of the next showmen visiting Bananalatid.
Several of Walshe’s Co. swam into the Gaiety Theatre,
Brisbane, during flood time, and rescued some of their
props. One of them said it beat Fillis’ water pantomime
out of sight.
Mrs. Langtry, writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, has offered a reward of £5O for the discovery of
the person or persons who originated and circulated the
report that she had been ejected from the Savoy
restaurant and requested to take her patronage else-
where. A very pretty piece of bluff. The story was that
she was dining or supping at the Savoy with young Peel
and another man, and became so obstreperous that she
was requested to leave the place. She says she did not
give a supper on that day, and therefore the whole tale
must be a fabrication. This is said to be what did
happen. The Lily was supping with Reel and another
man or two, and in course of the evening Peel
made some observation which eiidenlly gave of-
fence, for Lily said, “If you say that again, Bobby,
1 will throw this in your face holding up a glass of
champagne. “Bobby” repeated (he remark, and forth-
with she let fly the glass, which he, by deftly ducking his
head, escaped, but the wine went over the dress of a lady
who was sitting at the.next table. There was a rumpus,
naturally, hut apologies and explanations followed and
were accepted, and the incident was closed, as (hey say in
diplomacy. It was a pure accident, though somewhat an
unpleasant one for the lady whose dress was spoilt.
The English now do not take their pleasures sadly.
Nothing suits present taste, says The Bulletin’s corres-
pondent, that has no fun in it. With the exception of
three houses, all the London theatres are now running
either farcical comedy or comic opera, and it looks as if it
paid, for good audiences are the rule. At the Opera
C( miquo they have put up “ Trooper Ohirette,” described
as a musical-farcical-comedy, though it has few, if any, of
those elements about if. Willie Edouin and Fred.
Mervyn are in the caste, and Alice Atherton is leading
lady. The Shaftesbury will shortly open with “La
Rosihre,” said to be an adaptation from the French by
Harry Monkbouse. Frank Thornton has a part in this,
hut is sadly put out because be lias no song. He plays
instead of Monkbouse himself who cannot get a release
from bis engagement with Horace Sedger. From what I
hear, the piece is not likely to niter the fortunes of the
unfortunate Shaftesbury.
Latest advices mention “The Lost Paradise,” which
was more or less produced at Melbourne Princess’s, as
likely to be a Xmas attraction at London Adelphi. Chr.s,
Ftollmann had arranged to take over his Yankee adapta-
tion of the German plaj- from New York, and if it makes
a hit we are bound to bear more of this interesting matter
in Australia. There’s a lot of money to be mr.de out of
“ The Lost. Paradise ”by any manager who g( e 1 1h -■ l ight
way to find it.
Sara Bernhardt scores her latest ghoulish advertisement
off the tombstone of a dead lunatic. He fell in love with
iier 15 years ago, and pestered her with love declarations
written on officially-headed notepaper. Sara at last
brought the nuisance under th£ notice of ins chief, win
promptly prohibited further mooning. The corking up
of the swain’s fires sent him into an asylum, where he has
just died. Until the last lie believed she would one day
call and abduct him io her boudoir. ■ rfS
“The Man with the Iron Head,” who puts a pavinr-
stone on bis dome of thought and lets another man break
it by ten or twelve tremendous whacks with a sledge-
hammer, is doing good business in London. Also, the
person who drives a nail through a two-inch boaid with
his brawny fist, and the man who splits a (hick board by
smashing it on Ids cranium, are both doing well.
An actress writes, even from such a first-class stand as
Brighton, Eng., about Hie frightful exactions in rehearsal.
She has been working, one way and another, from nine m
the morning till two next morning. Where are the illu-
sion* of the stage-struck? Then there is the beautiful
stage-manager, Mr. Pta igq amide Langwiige.
Paderewski’s recent recitals in London brought him
close on £lOOO each. Yet, in ’S)O, when I e made his debut
there, ids audience was hardly worth jfXO.
It was proposed at one time to have a railway
every day in the grounds of Chicago Exhibition, but «•>
idea was over-ruled. Why not send a modern Australia
Parliamentary row as an exhibit, with nal members pa-j
ing a real bill, and using the customary langum
“You’re a liar!” “You’re another!” “You may
have got any of your relations into the Civil Service,
your father’s In the State Benevolent Asylum. *->
outside!” Riff! bang!


TEL HU
newyork life insurance company
(OIM'AMSiO I SI,-,)
A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Phofits belong to the Assumed.
1802 ’ U * accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SUIiPLVS
/ ' a aahtlilies to £3,115,436, heimj the LARGEST Surplus held, by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Co. in the world. J J
„ tlie LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
ciusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
bond street chambers, svdney, n.s.w.
St. Julien (Boar’s Head Brand) is tho
name given by Messrs. Times and Co. to their
finest Australian claret. This wine was pro-
nounced by tho late French Consul as the finest
Australian wine he had ever tasted. It can be
obtained from all the leading wine merchants and
grocers at 3(is. per dozen Insist on gottuig the
proper brand. The wholesale cellars are at 03 and
051’itt street, Sydney.
Baron Carington sends his sympathy to
the Hood sufferers in Brisbane. His right hand
lias not forgot its cunning.
BUR ROUG H E S
AND
WATTS,
BILL T ARD TAB L E
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
fi'S’ Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Awkward for Y.D.L. Bank shareholders. It is
•a that a careful inspection of the old charter of the
jo, net bank has revealed to cunning legal eyes that the
e t,i tv is un limited. The authorities are keeping this
1 ,’ miiet but it will have to come out. The lawyers
'Tn drew ’up the latest existing deed of incorporation
itted to have the “limited” liability so stated in the
bond ; consequently, “ over goes the show ” again.
# * *
THder Smith & Co., Limited (S.A.), extended
■!• operations to Victoria last year and lost £60,000.
a a result they have sliced £6OOO a year off their salaries,
fhVheavv reductions ranging from the managing director
i £2ooo'to clerks at £2OO, and amounting to 50 per cent,
•most cases. A call of ss. per share is now being made.
L n . co numbers among its largest shareholders Thomas
Flder Barr Smith, and A G. Downer, who are reckoned
wu . ’ t | le wealthiest men in Australia, and it still seems
, r than many banks, despite the hard knock.
811 ' # # *
The Savings Bank of N.S. Wales has paid
, 1892, in interest, £147,828, Xls. 2d., and has now a
ro«prve-fund of £227,127. The trustees estimate that they
have made a loss of £ll,8(0, or so, through the New
Oriental Bank stoppage. It is an evidence of their busi-
ness tact that they never appear to have risked any
money in Munro’s ill fated Federal.
# * •
We have received a lob of interesting informa-
tion about the position and prospects of the Maria Island
Co recently floated in England for £250,000. The British
shareholder having parted with his good red gold at the
instance of the smart Melbourne men, it would be cruel
to say anything which would cause him uneasiness. As
thing's stand, the omnivorous British capitalist has got
Maria, who is now pretty ancient, and has seen many
vicissitudes, and some more British coin seems likely to
take root out here for the benefit of Australia. We have a
strong impression that the place is a very ordinary island,
and has little to recommend it barring the ozone and the
scenery.
* * »
It is tolerably certain that the Melbourne
Tramway Co., which snorted at the public when the
dividend was 72 per cent., will soon be starved into reduc-
ing its rates. Whereas short-distance railway travelling
is still cheaper in Melbourne than in London, the local
tramway fares are 33 per cent, higher on an average, some
of the cockney’s twopenny rides being longer than any
you can get in Marvellous M. for threepence. If the
trams are to hold their own with the trains the private
00. must reduce fares or else the national company must
raise them.
• * *
For a considerable time past it has rained in
Sydney every Sunday, and been reasonably fine all the
rest of the week. This is believed to be Heaven’s only way
of getting level with the hull-headed Port Jackson S.S.
Co., which has just raised the return fare to Manly by 50
per cent., and which in no small degree depends on its
Sabbath excursion trade.
# # •
The Anglo - Australian Investment, Finance
and Land Co. of Sydney—it is generally the company w ith
the longest name that makes the most lamentable collapse
—reports upon its prospects, or rather, on the empty
place where its prospects used to be. When it closed up
a very short time ago it was understood (hit it had
abundant assets and was entirely solvent, only it was
I difficult, to “ realise.” Now it appears that there is about
£3BS,(LG nominally available to be called up, and even
when this is realised, so far as it can be, there will not be
“ nearly enough ” to pay the depositors and debenture
holders. Which, to the unofficial eye, reads as if the
Anglo-Australian &c., &c. Co., in.its “solvent ” days, had
lost all its paid-up capital, and over £300,000 of the
deposits as well. Anyhow, there is such a black and
horribh discrepancy between the liquidators’ reports and
the balance-sheet that a whole lot of independent investi-
gation appears to be wanted.
# • #
Sydney Assets Realisation Co. quotation:
“Seller, one penny no buyer; profit and loss account
and reserve fund both absorbed to meet bad debts ;
further balance of £14,800 to the debit of bad debts
account; call of Is. per share; Is. 6d. per share to be
written off ! What next?
# # *
Can anyone remember when there was last a buyer
of Queensland Nat ional Bank shares quoted on the Sydney
market? The Bulletin can’t. The eternal quotation,
“seller, £5,” “seller, 975. 6d.,” “seller, 945. 6d.,” and so
on means practically nothing ; there may he no buyer
above 995. Cd, or half-a-sovereign, orhalf-a-crown, or three-
pence, or £4 13s. 9d., or anything. In Federal Bank
shares the same eternal seller went right down the scale
from about 40s. to 7s. Cd., and all that time no buyer
turned up.
* * m
It is now claimed that James Munro owes the
Federal Bank a debt of £130,000 ; that a relative of
another director let the unhappy institution in for
£100,000; and that a third influential citizen had it to
the extent of £37,000. If this is true it means that
nearly three-fourths of the capital went in these three
fatal bites. Some day or other Tub Bulletin will start
ii hank on the following lines: (1) No director
shall be allowed to have any relatives; the board will
consist entirely of orphans, unmarried and absolutely
hiendless, foundlings preferred, and, a further preference
given to men of s.ioh hideously forbidding aspect that
tney are never likely to make any friends ; also, they must
ail be old and suffeiing from incurable complaints when
a man is dying he hasn’t so much interest in getting
money, knowing that he can’t take it with him. (2) No
uirector shall get an overdraft unless he puts up security
,P, 5 X t* 11168 the value, and provides 47 good sureties,
iv , 0 man shall be eligible as a d rector unless he has a
oitter personal encniy in the accountancy business, and
an ttie said enemies shell be appointed auditors ; prefer-
,.ein? given to auditors whose wives have bolted
tn directors. (4) No obtrusively religious man, teeto-
taler, philanthropist or other saint shall be employed on
any account whatsoever.
* # #
en *'-G' enera 'I James Munro has filed his
scnecune. Nominal shortage, £50,106 4s. 9d. The awful
lunepence 0 < * ames Scares forth conspicuously in that
* * *
Brewery (Melb.) shares are quoted at
n °nody is able to buy them at that price, which
m . 5™ ls the rumour that the shares are beared in the
infhicA • a powerful ring, which possesses considerable
influence in the company.
* * m
°f the busted boom the Queensland
hnwi ® al) k ai ?d Building Society closed its doors. Its
pMo..^ aB „V ai " t ly Cl ' ew > comprising the elect of the
Hnn i'i For a time, after its founda-
roi„'. e ..'herd s anointed divided among themselves
dividends. Now the crash has come, they have
cattail a t°te- To evade the payment of further
Fm,u U ?? n • eu s,m 'es a new building society, called the
i S to be floated. Its capital is to - he £105,000
fiwpoii iirft s * lai ' e being a ticket in the monster
105,000 sweep-tickets it will buv the pro-
™ °/, the Queensland Deposit Bank, and raffle them
ccaalf the subscribers, after which the Equitable will
to exist. If the capital is over-subscribed the prize.
list will be augmented by properties belonging to the
stone-broke land-boomers who have “friends” on the
board, and then these godly speculators will give thanks
to the Lord for their safe delivery from the jaws of the
busted boom.
# * *
Why does the Commercial Bank, Melb., pay
12J per cent. ?
* • •
The attention of the N.S.W. Minister of Justice
has been directed to the affairs of that extraordinary
institution, the Trans-Pacific Insurance Co. of Sydney, now
in liquidation. It is indeed marvellous that so flagrant a
case of commercial crookedness should for so long have
escaped the eye of the law.
* * •
The writer fears that a N.S.W. Miningon Private
Property Act, though admittedly needed, will not do one-
twentieth the good the enthusiasts predict. There are
few places, where payable gold is known to exist, that are
closed to diggers. The rush to two recently-opened
estates (one at Rockley, the other also in the West) has
been shortlived, because they soon proved failures. Yet
these were described as rich so long as they were closed.
Others will be opened in a few months, only to be closed
again. Already all land, alienated in any gold-district
since ’Bl, is open to mining under the present system of
free-and-easy title. An Act is required to deal with
estates previously alienated.
* * *
The difference between the prices obtained for
Vic. Treasury bonds by the present and late Governments
respectively, is too slight to warrant the “ blow ” made
about it.
# # «
It is alleged that “ the family ” in that Southern
softgoods business annually draw in salaries the sum of
£4300. An effort was made by the shareholders recently
to put one off the directorate by issuing a writ for £lOOO
for unpaid calls, but he paid up the thou, like a little
man.
* * «
One of the directors of a Victorian mine,
recently floated in London, was credited on the prospectus
with the affix 11. A. From this gentleman’s airy disregard
of all rules of orthography and syntax nobody had thought
he possessed a University education, and enquiries
elicited the fact that the letters signified “ Mining
Agent.”
# # #
A backblock selector lately came to Sydney to
get a loan on his property. He went to one of the finance
companies, and while waiting to see the manager heard
the “click, click ” of a type-writer in an adjoining room.
“ What’s that noise? ” he asked a man who sat near him.
“ That’s the mortgages bucking about in the safe while
the interest is accumulating on ’em,” was the reply.
“ Jee-rusaiem ! ” exclaimed the backhlocker reaching
for his hat.
# * *
He came, saw, and left the countfy disappointed,
if not disgusted—Who? Mr. T. A. Bennett, perhaps the
strongest mining man who ever left England for
Australia. He was rich himself and represented
millions ; he arrived, fortunately 7 for himself, unheralded;
as far as was possible he travelled alone not only over Queens-
land, but also over nearly every N.S.W. mining field,
nevertheless he was besieged with men who had mines for
sale. Those lie would have liked to buy were not for sale,
and those for sale he did not consider worth purchasing.
On the principle that the first loss was the best, he spent
big sums of money in prospecting undeveloped propenies
only to meet with disappointment in one form or another.
His aim was, of course, to purchase a going concern which
would give a greatly-increased output with a proportion-
ate reduction of cost. He declared that a big body of
lOdwt. rock would satisfy ipm, and it says very little
either for the country or its judgment that he was unable
to find ore in N.S.W. Of course, owners condemned his
judgment after he condemned their mines, but those who
gauged him as a fool with money never made a sadder
mistake. He did not want the lOdwts. in impalpahly
fine gold or sulphurets, such as would require chlorination
or cyanide to treat; he did not want it in a narrow shoot,
but in a big reef that would average so much in free gold
throughout. If found to his satisfaction, money would
not have slopped him. If such mines exist ami are for
sale, the writer confesses that he knows not their where-
abouts, though he expects now to hear of many who
“ have just the thing.” For the True Blue Block mine,
Croydon, he made an offer of £20,000 cash, which was
declined. He was prepared to purchase the Mitchell’s
Creek mine, near Wellington (N.S.W.), hut not at the
price asked. The result of his visit will not help to boom
Australian mines in London.
# * *
Editor Bulletin, —Your par. of Jan. 14 rc
revolving stamp is, I think, not quite correct. The im-
provement to stamps was patented in Melbourne, in ’Ol,
by a man now living here, and was worked by him at
Maldon (Vic.) for several years in the Eaglehavvk Associ-
ation’s claim. He received £5O from the firm of F. N.
Russell & Co. (Sydney) for the right to use it; afterwards
lie sold it to Webster Bros, for £3OO. He thinks they took
it to Maori land in ’6S or ’Of). That was all he ever received
for ids simple but clever invention. He has now fallen on
evil days, his eyesight is very bad, and, although a good
mechanical engineer, is almost destitute through inability
to obtain employment. Even one pound of the million
lie foolishly missed would be very acceptable at present.
H's only hope now is an improvement in steam injectors
for which lam trying toobtain a patent. He has.nothing,
and i haven’t much. I could manage the thing in N.S.
Walls or Victoria, but I have been advised that it is
worth patenting in Great Britain and the U.S.—Yours,
W.F., Blayney, N.S.W.
* * *
The Duchess Tribute, Bendigo, has crushed 15
tons for 1700z5., most of which came from less than a
single ton. There is not much probability of the rich
gold lasting long, as any shot may show that it has gone.
It would he refreshing to hear one of the many rich
N.S.W. patches so described. The moment gold is struck
in most N.S.W. mines the manager wires to Sydney the
discovery, with an estimate of what it will go per ton, and
in many oases fails to get a ton to crush.
# # #
The Franklin Harbour Co., a Sydney-owned
mine in S.A., has held its meeting. Usual story: no
funds available ; obliged to suspend work, but no effort
was being spared to induce investment of sufficient
capital.
• * #
The worst-paid mining-managers in the world
are probably those of Bendigo, with the result that the
best of them are constantly leaving, and many others
would have gone long ago if unanchored by family ties.
Five pounds weekly is considered a big wage there ; many
a man has left £4 a week on Bendigo for a £lO berth else-
where.
• # #
Manager Clapp, of Melb. Tram Co., reminded
the hands that a strike would alienate from them all
public sympathy. Meanwhile shareholders scoop 10 per
cent, dividends and let the public go hang with its sym-
pathy.
# # •
Gympie, which has had a bad spell for the last
three years, was just commencing to look up when the
flood filled all the Monkland mines, and did £lOO,OOO
worth of damage.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
15th February, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Lady Jersey having consented to act as Presi-
dent of the Australasian Home Reading Union
until the end of the current year, that rickety in-
stitution will probably hold out for another 18
months. But ’twill then utterly fade away, for the
thought that 500 or more Unionists are fagging
through the same tome at a given time will fail to
sustain the interest in a grass-widowed concern
with its president 10,000 miles away.
“O for the touch of a titled hand!” How
many trusting societies have had their esprit dc
corps taken away by an enhandled lady among her
luggage? Lady Jersey hasn’t done the right
thing by the Bowdlerised Home Readers in under-
taking to preside in spirit so long after her depar-
ture. For if (such things have happened) the new
Governor’s spouse is touchy about being a mere
vice-president, the fact of Lady J. hanging on to
the post simply signs the Society’s death-warrant.
Without the light of Lady Battersea’s (oris it to be
Lady Brassey’s?) countenance the Union will die
the death.
Judged from the standpoint of Caringtonian
history, Gov. Jersey’s following of one Earl, a
Captain, an Honorable and a plain Mister
(you can’t count young Villiers, who is
fenced in, as it were), haven’t been very ardently
attracted by Australian beauty. Only one en-
gagement amongst four, unless you believe all the
girls who were engaged, or as good as engaged, to
the unfortunate Lord Ancrum —after he was dead.
Perhaps if Gov. Jersey had stuck to office as long
as the Baron did, Australian belledom would have
stood a better chance, but, as it is, the Jerseys’
term hasn’t done much for local spinsterhood.
The Carington regime was responsible for the
settlement of three local belles—yes, three members
of his suite found bliss in the beastly kawlinies,
and ii fourth tried very hard to settle down, only
the rich woman he haunted wouldn’t take him
(altho’ the ring was bought), and the other girl’s
dowry wasn’t up to expectations. By the side of
these connubial sparks, the small Jerseyan social
score of one engagement looks very little indeed.
Let us hope it is the brief visit that is most to
blame.
The Jersey children are being packed ’Ome by
the Ophir, and Gov. and Lady Jersey propose
leaving by the Catterthun early in March. The
vice-regalities evidently don’t intend to prolong
the sweet sorrow of parting, and the various com-
mittees for harassing the poor Earl, who, accord-
ing to London Times, is simply weary of the
incessant ceremonials, have to rush about at a
tremendous rate, and all talk at once so as to get
matters arranged in time. Of course there is to
be a big Town Hall dinner, and a huge illuminated
address is to be given the Earl as a reference from
his last place. I wonder how many emus they’ll
put in it ?
I don’t know why “The World Against Her,”
at Sydney Royal, should be described as the
ladies’ play. The one thing needful in a ladies’
play is a wardrobe, and the leading lady in “The
World,” &c., is sadly persecuted, and shows it in
her garments--which is as good as saying that she
begins in an innocent pink frock; gets on to
mousey grey; sinks deeply into black; and
emerges in the final scene in a half-and-half smile-
and-sob sort of garment that looks anything but
frisky, so that the hero may turn up his eyes and
say, rapturously, “She has not been led astray !
That frock is too unbecoming !”
Mrs. Molyneux (bouqueted after the second act)
as Madge Carlton looked best in the babyish
frock of pink worn in the first scenes—but why
did she top it off with so wicked-looking a Paris
hat? A cluster of extremely saucy roses dancing
on their stems seemed to augur that the villain
might have a chance after all if there was a
spring-bonnet-shop in the neighbourhood. Edith
Bland, in the white-silk ball-robes of stage-
iniquity, accentuated the fact that heelless white
satin shoes may be easy, but they seem to crowd
the stage too much when a tall lady’s “daisy
roots ” are in natural proportion to her height;
also, I must object to the way Miss B. treated her
feather boa—she whisked it about as if she was in
the habit of skipping with it.
How very like all one’s preconceived notions of
the Prince of Wales ! “Do you notice any change
in the physique of the women in England,” asked
he of Premier Dibbs. Mr. Dibbs did, now that his
attention had been called to it. He found them
finer and larger than they used to be. “Yes,”
remarked the heir-apparent, “we have been
wondering greatly about it during the last 10 or 12
years.” When the nation observes Albert Edward
lost in profound meditation it isn’t the State that
is absorbing him. He is worrying about the
physique of his lady subjects—he lias been wonder-
ing about the breadth of Miss Johanna Bull’s
shoulders and the lovely fall of her back for the
last 12 years without being able to make them out.
Amybody would see in two winks that theathletio
girl must develope into a stronger creature than
her vapourish grandmother or novel-chewing
mamma—but H.R.H. has been so profoundly
engrossed in merely admiring the result that he
had to enquire the reason of it, e'ven after 12 years
cogitation. By the way, the Premier’s shoppy
little mot as to “Australian mutton having only
been largely obtainable in England within the
last 12 years,” strikes one as a little illogical.
First, he found English beauty ahead of Austra-
lian, and then he attributed the improvement in
Bull’s daughter to our mutton ! Is even a sheep
not without honour save in his own country?
I hear that it was dismally funny on the morn-
ing the Federal Bank failed —to see the demeanour
of the “society ” depositors (especially the feminine
variety) who thought that in a bank smash, as in
a social function, you can be smuggled in somehow
before the doors are open and have first pick of
what’s going if you happen to be Anybody.
When you know the manager in his evening-dress
moments and everything has been so pleasant, it’s
quite to be expected that he will at least hand
you out your little nest-egg without any fuss—no
matter how impossible lie may find it to pay the
ordinary mob which bangs on the counter and
doesn’t burst into the sanctum. To give the
gentlemen their due, they, I believe, restricted
their illegal endeavour to get ahead of the rest by
putting their excited formula in a feeling way:
“I suppose you can’t get my cash out of the
affair?” But the ladies were more beseeching
and resorted to little sobs, deep sigh's, and the
usual gentle arts which, while they often succeed
in getting money out of the pockets of the male
individual, fall off companies like water off a duck.
One society lady, of rather mature attractions,
who came to pluck her banking-account out of the
burning, had designedly backed herself up with a
pretty girl, in the hope, presumably, that the
manager’s heart might be melted left-handedly.
“Am I iiot to get my money?” (with a 40 h.p.
emphasis on the I), she said, in a high voice, rush-
ing in upon the manager, closely followed by her
decoy-duck. “ You know you can pay me if you
like! Won’t you pay me/” And then, as the
poor man perforce remained obdurate, she
plumped on to a chair. “I shall stay here till I
get my money,” she almost screamed. “ I know
you’ve got it in that safe there, and I won’t
stir until you give it me!” But, of course,
she didn't get it. It’s not a bit of use being pretty
by proxy.
A “risen” Southern family of studied tastes
are awaiting the arrival of an English mail-boat in
a cold perspiration—the family, not the steamer.
On board is a lady relative who wrote before
starting and described the very dress she would
wear on her arrival, so as to lessen the worry of
identification. Here is the description :—“The
dress is red, with dotted about on it little groups,
in shades of blue and yellow, of kangaroos, emus,
lions, unicorns, and true lovers’ knots ”!! ! The
family are praying earnestly that the boat may
arrive long after dark.
The pale, spectacled aristocrat who comes out
to Australia to batten on vice-regal relatives, and
who Seeks to obtain “colonial experience ” with-
out taking off his gloves, is merely a thorn in the
flesh of the long-suffering station-hands most of
the time. One storyette about a certain Governor’s
latest-imported brother-in-law, who went to gain
experience on a Southern station, is a case in
point. He was sent to tally bags of wheat with
the farm bailiff, who left him to count a stack,
and, returning in an hour, asked the unhappy
stripling how many there were? In stammering
tones came the reply : “ I kuk-kuk-eounted up to
one hundred, bub-bub-but got mixed. You’d
bub-bub-better count them your s-s-self!” The
spectacle of an Honorable who can’t keep his
mental grip in the bewildering presence of a
hundred numerals, discounts 10 per cent, of the
convincingness of Onida’s heroes.
I hear that the divorced wife of a well-known
Australian politician is living very quietly just
now near Cambridge Terrace, London. She con-
templates seeking “fresh woods and pastures
new,” and will shed the lustre of her presence on
the Chicago Exhibition. Americans are impres-
sionable and like a pretty woman.
This is the pause of fashion, and the luckless
woman who has to get a new dress would do
wisely to buy a cheap stuff, because nobody knows
how skirts are going. The “ Bell ” skirt—gored
at the top and spreading out towards the hem—a
regular haven for big feet—promises to have a
run, and some people fancy the “granny,” full
all round, but it’s pure guesswork what will lead
local style, and that’s the main point, after all.
What is the go in Paris only makes you look like
a mountebank in Little Pedlington, unless every-
body happens to know about it. But so long as
the new sleeve given in Madame Weigal’s last
journal doesn’t come in, we can hope to be happy.
This horror has a full top ending in a swelled,
pointed bag at the elbow, highly suggestive of
goitre. Fortunately, I only saw one at the cricket
match.
I have thankfully received from Edwards.
Dunlop and Co. a copy of Fashions of To-Day—
a beautifully illustrated paper. It seems a pity
from every but a dress-worshipper’s point of view
that so much artistic work should present merely
the last eccentricity in bonnets and the very latest
snip.
Just as I thought! The awful Brisbane floods
have ended in a wild and savage rush of women
to the bargain counters of the local shops,
“ Damaged by the flood ” will for a year or so be
to the Brisbane tradesmen what “ Salvage ” is to
Sydney, where the water never rises and gives
commerce a chance, and for many months you will
be able to “ spot ” the Brisbane bargain-hunter by
the water-marks on her bonnet-strings. But the
flood damage is a reality and not a delusion.
Brisbane’s leading drapers, Finney, Isles, & Co.,
have, I am told, lost fully =£20,000 through the
rush of water.
If Lord Brassey does get the N.S.W. Governor-
ship, will that high office be lightly considered as
a trap to catch a Sunbeam ?
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.


s^rv/-v/V'VA.
BBSSSEI
m
m
■ OitlM.N .1 AISiKALASIW
STAMPS.
100 different Foreign, 2 '0; too different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Alliums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, (1/10 — all post free.
Price-list gratis. rnused stamps
accepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN <sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
A certain individual who calls himself a
“statesman” publicly boasts of never bavin#
dumped any relatives or friends into, the Civil
Capital and labour unite in praising the excel-
knee of fJNUN Darlings.
Personal Items.
New Victorian reading: “Another Qh\e
J ustice from Ireland !”
Higinbotham’s last will and testament
consisted of only 108 words.
(( Parkes : “I am self-made.” Dibbs :
You see, he don’t blame anybody !”
“ H Death, auctioneer and valuator>■
Wall send, N.S.W.” Going! Going! Gone!!'
, Mr. C. Walker, librarian of Sydney
I ree Public Library, has had but one month’s
holiday during 31 years service.
Perhaps the most heavily-insured l life in.
Sydney is that of Mr. T, H. Kelly, the well-known
mining man, who carries .£55,000.
Edmund Mitchell represents Sydney
Daily Telegraph, Melbourne Aoe, andiAdelaide
Advertiser at Chicago Exhibition.
The most charitable supposition is-that the
T’io.c mani.itre scheme was originated, by tire
greedy pauper parents.
Henry Lawson has of late been out West,
humping his swag to the Paroo and the Queens-
land border, and gathering literary material by
the way.
“Bob” Wilson, who married one. of the
Carandinis, and was formerly a stock-agent in,
Brisbane, has set up in the same line of business’
in Chicago.
Queensland Chief-Engineer Stanley has a
large family, but the Indooroopilly railway bridge
was bis favourite child. He cried when thy flood,
swept it away.
From all we hear, it will suit a, certain,
aggressive Western member to keep v,ery quiet in.
N.S.W. Assembly. Next time he launches out at!
his special enemies he will be bit, by a political
melinite bomb.
An erstwhile brilliant qratov qf S.A.
Assembly is now forced to do temporary wprk in
a Civil Service department at labourer’s wages.
Talk at a discount. ■
Cricketer Barrett is distantly connected .by
marriage with Joseph Clarke. That is tp say,
Barrett’s mother-in-law found a second husband
in Clara Parker’s brother.
Patrick Duffy, who died at. Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) last week, landed ip Sydney in 1841 as’
a pioneer farmer. He was born Dec. 22, 1792. and
had therefore passed .the century. ‘' ~
The President of a certain Australian
Legislative Council is the son . of a‘ country
publican, and iii’ his youth used to play the fiddle’
to attract'euitpniers to hi's father’s bar.
The only South Australians who have
refused knighthoods atee.LPreinier Tom Playford,
who despises the bauble, arid Chief Justice Way,
who thinks he ought to get something better.
The N.S. W. Rail-
way Commissioners
are so thorough in
their economical
policy that one of
them has actually
abolished two of the
initials of his official
signature. It is esti-
mated that this will
mean a saving of, at
least, twopence yearly.
It is rumoured that
the doughty Chief
Commisioner, wh o
sports three intials,
also meditates cutting
them down to one,
but this will only be
done afte a heavy fall
in railway revenne.
Sheriff Seager, of
Tasmania, swears he
won’t hang Havener,
the Llandaff (Tas.)
murderer, come what
may. Then comes
the question, “ Who’s
to do it?” —the Tas-
manian Jack Ketch-
ship being vacant at
present. Nobody has
ever been able to dis-
cover for certain who
acted as hangman
when Cooley, the
Richmond murderer,
was executed. Sheriff
Seager says he didn’t
do it. Others swear
he did.
By the will of
Alfred Arden, a Vic-
torian crank, certain
bequests made to his
relations were, if his
wishes in one direc-
tion werenotcomplied
with, to descend to the
children of the abori-
gines who first owned
the land he occupied.
This clause was
promptly rubbed out
by Judge Holroyd.
Ex-Premier Shiels married a daughter of
“Poor Man” Robertson, one of the wealthiest
squatters in the South-Eastern district of S.A,
Shiels was tutor in the family and, drew up the
will.
Griffith’s subscription to the Hood, relief
fund was ,£25. Jodrell, holding llis brief, in the
great Robb arbitration while 1 he was away in Tas-
mania, earned about ten time& as much for him
from the Government. ’ 1 1 1
Solicitor-General Isaacs (Vic.) is a member
of N.S.W. Bar. Hp was admitted a few years
ago to conduct a big border case upon a 500-guinea
fee, but professional jealousy kept him oiit of the
case though he got the fee.
Arglis re' the Prince George and May
Teck mhtcli : “ Tt is undesirable for many reasons
that the descendants of George 111. should inter-
marry.’’ The Argus fears intellectual decadence.
We can find no room for uneasiness on that score.
Melbourne Herald made Madden, on his
first appearance as Chief-Justice, say that lie
intends to “ administer, justice according to jaw.”
There may be something in this. Brother Williams
“ claims ” that, the 0. J. is not a lawyer but only a
jawyer.
The early speeches of at certaim Australian.!
Premier, which first got him into prominence and
Parliament, were written for hiin, by a certain,
well-known goldfields lady journalist. And she
never forgot in later.years to remind him, of the
fact, either.
Gascoigne was one' of the South, Sea
mysteries, 40'y,ears ago. He used to, go away
yachting, and return to Sydney and Melbourne
with rich hauls from, somewhere. He ultimately
foundered right out in parts unknown, Some
fancied he hadifound gold.
“Jack,” Watson* reported as- killed' by
blacks at Florida Station, N.T., is related;to the
racing Watsons of Sydney and Melbourne.', In,
the bush, he was pluck right up.to foolhardiness,,
it lid he could put a revolver bullet through a,small,
übuilli tin on a nigger’s head at 40 paces..
Gov. Norman was wiiH ( Nelson in. T6o-
Vvoomba when the great, floods.came., He was ope
bf the first, tp get into, the beleaguered! capital,
crossing the. river in, a, small' boat* at the risk of
his life,, before the water had half subsided.
Nelson is Scottish, ye ken, and waited two days.
‘•‘Mr. MacCtdloch, of Victoria,” is much,
sought after just now in London by painters,.as
he is supposed tp be “on, the feed 1 ” for works of.
art. He is going to,buy pictures by the square
yard, and it, has been announced'that he will only
consider six to nine-footers—just, as if he were
buying,a fishing-boat.
A patent-medicine, advertisement tells us
that “Mr. H. G, Rowell, the popular proprietor
of the Great Western, Hotpl i at Katoomba,.
N.S.W., is .one,of tyiejupst, steadfast believers in,
- oil, and is untiring in recommending it
for numerous distressing complaints. Mr. Rowell’s
success and enthusiasm in administering the oil
have induced his friends to call, him, ‘ Rector.’ ”
Poor Rowell! ■He has now beep dead,.six or seven
years, and is very lucky if he lias,got to a,place ,
where o;l can be safely handled.
Frpdj Maccabe, saying, an, occasiqnal' ap-
pearance at London Savage Club, has, writes a,
correspondent, quite dropped out of th? world.
He has retired.into the couptry, and;decided to,
spend hi? declining years in rustic , qipet. F f red.
has had many ups and downs. After making a,
nice little fortune as an, entertainer, hp dropped it,
all ip electric-light sharp speculations. A’success-
ful tour in Australia set hpnpnce moi;e upop,his
legs, and,he has made up his mind never again to,
risk his little all in 4 wild-cat, schemes,, He is, of
course, writing his reminiscences..
Thus the Review .0? Reviews on Parke,s’
book, “Fifty years in the Making of Australian,
History ”
The book offers sore temptations to a critic. is
marked by so innocent, and yet so huge and
/I:/-
BARBAROUS.
BARBER: “Your hair is very thin on top, sir; wants strengthening. I
have a special preparation of my own for strengthening the hair,
sir, which I can recommend. It is an entirely new Australian
concoction, sir, made principally from the leaves of the eucalyptus
tree.”
OLD GENT ([?] up): “Thin on top!” (Looks at himself in glass)
“So you-clipped-this all off in order to-." (Then the trouble
began.)
exasperating, that, the most benevolent of critics finds
unaccustomed pall stealing into Ins ink as he writes about
it. Tin* book is not literature ; for, though Sir Henry'
llarkes is an orator and a verse-maker, he has no iterary
style, and no'sens? of perspective, and nothing of the
story teller’s gift. His book is one-half a political pam-
phlet, and the other half a mere waste-paper basket put
mtb pript. the reader can only get through its many
pagt’s as a kangaroo crosses a plain—by ex routing,, that'
is, a series Of, gigantic jumps.’ But the quality in the
book, we repeat, which is most entertaining or exasper-
ating, according to the point of vie\V of thfe readyr, is the
iHnocent, happy, aiid unashamed egotism of,the writer.
Dear Bulletin, —I sincerely hope that
your appeal fot sufficient, fund? td erect a small
Memorial over the grave of Bgrorbft H. Boake
will meet with a sympathetic response. Had hte
lived lie would have made himself a world-famous
name, and interpreted the voice of the Australian
bush worthily and well. What you have already
published of his verses prove him to have pos-
sessed that intuitive knowledge of his kind and
good fellowship with Nature which at once appeals
to the heart and brain of humanity. Fur my
part I think that when he died Australia lost its
coming poet. I should think that all your bush
readers, at any rate, would willingly contribute
something, however small, for such a purpose.—
I)KI.COM VN. j 1 UK Bur.LETiN has in hand various
amounts, which will be duly acknowledged, and
will be glad to receive further contributions.
—Ed. B.]
Service. Some, at least,, of that man’s virtues are
the vices of more grateful men-. Years ago the
statesman was arrested for debt by a bailiff. He
liad come to the end of his tether, but lie actually
succeeded- in borrowing money from- the bailiff,
assuring the latter that if possible he would d'ohiirn l
a good turn whenever asked todo-so; Years after-
the bailiff; who.- wanted l ' to get an appoint-
ment for his growing son, waited on the great man
and somewhat timidly started to. indirectly remind
him of aoertain,small obligation, he had: incurred
in the long ago; But the great man could not
remember ever having' seen-the bailiff before —was
sure file flitter Had' made a' mistake. Perhaps,.,
after all, one could'hardly expect him to recall a'
single individual outofi the many bailiffs to whom
he was beholdbm
From-Vienna- comes tlie story of a, stone-
bliudilmsband whose young,wife used to go out “on
the mash ” for- hours at a. time, leaving a hired
deputy to impersonate tier- and 1 answer the old
man’s-questions. Yet he was-angry when he found
o«t the swindle. Many husbands would like to -
Ir blind on the same terms. .
The - BHuce- of: Wales’ secretary- declares
“ there is-no vice his Royal Highness deprecates;
so -much .as drunkenness —there is no public-house
on. the Sandringham Estate.” Nobody ever-
accused ithe Heir Apparent- of wishing to go out
andget-drunk in,a neighbouring pub. What the
world l wants to, know is—hpvv much does he.
deprecate, vices in, genera), and how much better;.
than.beer.does he consider baccarat?
Prof. Morris
is bringing out a,
memoir-ofi Higin-
botham, .who was.
ills father-in J&w.
There is ope,
man in the N.S.
Wales Upper
House - who • is in-
deed entitled to a
“vote for thrift.”
When,a Minister
of the C r °wn hp.
Ijvedi in,, lodgings
on £l' a week,
and ’ saved t h,e
balance (on which
he ,is n-pw living),;
fpr his . old age,
A dye , Douglas,
npw Chiefi Secre-
tary, of Tasmania,
and! generally un,
derstood to be over,
100 years of ■ age,
h]as just had born
to him No. 4. baby
of the third brew.
The old man is so
proud of the fact
that tlie announce-
ment is kept as,a,
standing advt. in,
the local press.
Mr. Justice.
Foster’ (N.S.W.),
is again ill, wp are .
sorry tp .hear. Mr.
Foster, will, no,
doubt, shortly
retire with a pen-
sion, of £lBOO a.
year, This is the.
r.esnlt,of appoint-
ipgtotjie Supreme
Court Bench,
veteran, political
backs instead of,
vigorous, riuddle-
aged men.
Early in,the, Seventies, in, the Far North,
poor old T-. —- had a terrific spree on the proceeds
Of a snrfae'e crushing, which proved to be hi$ last.
The mine was exempted from work for a month,
T——'Was induced, to make his will, apd he left
his share, a quarter of the mine, to ,a relative in,
the oldjconptry. When the month was up, there,
was no money to carry on his interest, and as the
executors (both since dead) covdd.not,risk paying
£4 per week to work the shpre, they tried to sell
for Yd 00,. with a view tp forwarding the,.money
to England and the matter. But as there
were no buyers at, any price,, thpy ultimately
found a man who agreed to work the share for
£\ per,‘week or such proportion of it as might
come out of the he had the right
of taking over, tjie share foy .£100 within a given
time. In a couple of .£100 had been,
sent tp England. Two ypars later the share-
hold ersTried tp sell .out for <£1000,, but failed as
the show only,ppid a trifle oypr wages,. Hpwever,
they plodded on,’ and ,1'iavp sipjje.iliyftiHJ. 30Q,Q00,
among thorp.
W hen Nelson M‘Lean, of r London, ,(now at
work, on a bust t of latp millionaire Walker, of ,
Cjon.cbrd, Sydney! received the cpmmipsion, for a
statue of Petpr, Lalor, for, Melbourne, Graham
Berry, told hirp, had, only one arm, but
h(b cpulpn’t,say,foryerfaitj,,whj.ch, although, be had,-
for, ypars been his fippnd and,; cplleagup. My
M'Lean then applied, to, the present writer, who
tpld him what he thought wap tlje facf, but ad vised -
him tp consijjt Heaton’s Men Of; the Trpr% This
wap done,, and it was fpund tbit- Be ter had lost
hjs r/f/ht ftrin. There was a second reference,
how 4 eyer, in the book, and, oji looking it up, it
Was found to.be stated, that the fe P arm was
missjng, and wfien Hyat.op, who -to .be
a kjn(l ; of Australian encyclopaedia, wa,s.referred*
to, he first said onp t,hing and tlipn,. another. The
completion of the statue was thus, delayed,* for
somf tinie. !£. seems strange, yet it is true, that
amongst all LaJbrV friends in England:) nphody
seemed.to know positively which of his arms was
missing. this, \yfiat is the value of the
evidonpe of, the average witness ?
Says ex-Justice. Win, Manning, M-.L.0.%
the bebaubled-and doubly-pensioned N.S.W. State
pauper
There is a party which would swamp,,this. House i§ it
could. But if the House were swamped) .with persons of
the same class as the present members*— leaving alone
labour members, the object of appointin'/ whom, -would bo
Simula and purely with the view, of insult —there is no
doubt that I hat could he done under the Constitution.
Mr. Manning acknowledges then that the N.S.W.
Council is a class body. When lie talks of “in-
sult ’’ done to men who gladly consort with John
Davies and John Lucas—some Condy’s fluid,
please, to rinse our pen—then lie talks Glades-
villese.
Whether on land or at sea, on the prairie or in
tlm crowded city, Ayer’s Bills arc the best ca-
thartic, being convenient, efficacious, and safe.
For torpidity of the liver, indigestion, and sick
headache they never fail.
Politicians and Statesmen all smoked N UN
Darlings.
Commissioner of Police Peters tv aid (S, A. <
has a chamber of horrors in his official office, The
latest addition is th.e murderer Gin Gab’s blood-
stained knife.
The one insurmountable objection whiclii
always turns up. when a land-tax is proposed it?
that it is a measure of “confiscation.” Nobody
ever seems to dream that the same term applies to"
every tax. Why doesn’t some politician point out
that an income-tax is also a 1 confiscation (of
income) 1 , that the present tax on tbbaeco and 1
cigars-practieally means that, at least, three-fifths
of everybody’s “smoke” is confiscated, that tlie
tremendous taxes on liquor are a brutal confisca-
tion of grog, that when the State levies a do-*-
tax it is confiscating a certain percentage of every;
body’s dog—in short, that the State confiscates at
bit' of everything except land •?" And why if
shouldn’t confiscate land' as well is a problem
which passeth all understanding,.
‘-‘No- estate, real or personal, shall he
bequeathed or devised to any charitable or benevo-
lentl society, or corporation, or to any person or
persons in trust for charitable uses, except the
same be done by will duly executed at least thirty-
days before the decease of the testator ; and if so-
made, at least thirty days prior to such death
such devise or legacy, and each of them, shall be
valid ; provided that' no. such devises or bequests-
shall'collect! vely exceed one-third of the estate of s
the testator leaving legal'hei rs, and in such case a*
pro-rata deduction.from.such devises or bequests
Mt.
CERTAIN SMASH.
SMITH : “Hallo, Jones, you look out of sorts, what’s the matter?”
JONES : “Oh! I’ve just been to the races. Went to back a certainty.
I suppose you know what that means.
shall be made so as to reduce the aggregate lljgrcol
to one-third of such estate ; and all dispositions of 1
property made contrary hereto shall bo void, and)
goto the residuary legatee or devisee, nextmf kin;,
or heirs, according to law. ’Civ ilf Coda of the State?
of California,
Almost every time- an.- exciting debate
arises in an Australian Legislature some member'
calls another a liar, and?' then “withdraws and!
apologises.” When be has withdrawn and apolo-
gised the incident;closes. Yet, if one man meets
another in the street and calls him a liar he is <
promptly assaulted* —if the other man is big'
enough—or.else sued for “ words calculated. ’ Ah 1
M.P., in fact,; is the only man in Australia who-
be called a liar with impunity, and the Legis-
lative, Chamber is the only place where the- term"
cap safely bo used*. And yet this-country worries-
a lot about the. “ dignity of .Parliament,” whereas,.
in reality, Parliament-is the only place in Aus-
tralia which hasn’t any dignity at all. Even"
Little BourkerStreeb or Wool loom oolrto is ahead off
it; you can’t call a man a liar there without being,-
smacked in the eye.,
That sitake iaa, pel'sk in,, the wretched Johns
Davies, underground engineer, organised the-
rejection by Mj.S.W. Legislative-Council of pure-
mgnhpod, suffrage. Party politics have never run'
SO nigh, ip the Council as since the appointment-
of Davies —the man who, years ago, publicly
threatened) Parkes with mysterious “ disclosures,’.
a,nd| whp, t« the eternal disgrace of the Parkes-
afopesaidi, was shovelled into the Council after he
had, for personal reasons well within public-
knowledge, been ignominiously deprived by the-
electors of his former municipal and political pose
tions. This greasy apostate in broadcloth now;
feeds fat the- grudge he bears the- class from'
which ho sprang. However, it sort of consoles*
the; workmen to,, know that when the slippery
ex-blacksmith did spring be sprang so far.
Dear Bulletin, —“ Bob” Murray, the-
lately deceased telegraph station-master at' the 1
Katherine River on the Overland Line, N.T., was-*
one of the original staff of’that part; He was in
very active fellow, a good' and a keetn
judare of horseflesh. He was the soul of hospi-
tality, and | thy stranger was always welcome atf.
the Katharine. During the big flood of ’Tff, 1 .where
the Katherine rose 35ft. in one night; ho started'
out next morning, crossed the river, and what,
between wading and swimming, ran the line along
towards Pino Greek and restored communication
before nightfall, single-handed. He was a first-
class operator. Many years ago when 1 was on-
the station we were amusing ourselves with cards
one night. Murray was just in the act of playing
when lie stopped and said, “What’s that?” He
put down his cards, went over to the table where
the instrument was ceaselessly ticking, and stood
there jotting down something on a piece of paper-
Then he came hack and read out the news’ of ttie-
defeat and massacre of Isandnla. Most of the-
messages, of course, go through in code, but this-
ono did not, and his quick ear caught the start-
ling tidings speeding through whilst in the act or
playing.-F.


o
(Portrait Photographers)
-A-rcadle, Sydney,
and
StREET, MELBOURNE.
Price for Cabinet Photographs, 15s. per Dozen,
Messrs. Charlemont strongly commend to the
public their Platinotypo work, it is absolutely
Permanent and has with it all the beauty and
delicacy of an engraving.
PE MELT/S
WHISATENA.
The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Juggles,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
Ji A 24 Clnrcncc-aircot,
SYDNEY.
V-;
_ ARTESIAN
Wells filled by contract a<
lowest rates. Complete Drill,
ing Bigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various
strata. WILLIAM >
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
o
POLITICAL
POINTS
“Patriotism is territorial sectarianism.” —
Bagehot.
Therd were 10*544 births and 3711 deaths
:n Si a. last year. . ~ a .
Chaffey Baker is the only lawyer m b.A.
Legislative Council.
“Why should Democracy hdtcll A nest ot
Caesars ? ’’—Bellamy.
“Freedom of Contract is a license to
engage in the slave-trade.
“The saviour of New South Wales !
Bah ! The impenitent thief.
The population of South Australia has
only increased by 9000 since 1881 !
Victorian Treasurer Carter says that there
are £20,000,000 lying unused in local banks.
J. M. Stuart, S.A. Crown Solicitor, prides
himself upon having the finest beard in Australia.
When Capital willingly reduces its own
profits to meet bad times the millennium will be
here.
The Democratic Unities : One man, one
Representative (House, one principal tax, no one
governor.
Premier Dibbs says that the N.S.W*
general elections of 1891 cost the State no less than
£15,490 3s. 6d.
In a certain Australian Ministry are both
the prosecutor and the defendanTm a bribery case
of a few years ago.
Although the S.A. elections do not happen
till April, in one provincial electorate eleven candi-
dates are already out.
To what depths has the N. S. W. Legislative
Council sunk when a man like John Davies can
openly threaten to count it out!
During 12 years the election deposits
forfeited by unsuccessful N.S.W. Parliamentary
candidates totalled £2519 10s. 4d.
Premier Patterson labours to show how
Scotch, Irish, even Australians become Ministers,
but the poor English are always out in the cold.
The three most dangerous opponents of
the Kanakllgriff were Drake, Black and Nelson.
Drake is hobbled, Black nobbled, Nelson gobbled.
Economy to the rich man is to cut down
the wages of his servants. To the poor man it is
to take the butter from his bread or to sacrifice
the loaf.
Premier Patterson’s first act after the
Castlemaine election was to order an expensive
new carpet for his office in the Chief Secretary’s
Department.
Premier Patterson’s announcement that
he will not appoint an Agent-General for six
months is simply a barefaced bid for certain
Opposition support.
The Federal Council is a national excuse
for a little privileged free-feeding. It has been
estimated that another 20,000 gallons of gold-top
will float United Australia.
Graham, M.L.A., who has of late been
“performing” in N.S.W. Assembly, was for ten
years a shining light and prominent speaker
amongst the Good Templars.
The succours needed by indigence are a
debt contracted by the rich towards the poor; and
it is for the law to determine in what manner this
debt shall be discharged.—Robespierre.
The Downer (S.A.) Ministry is fearful
that there will be a big deficit on June 30 to injure
its election prospects. Already instructions for
retrenchment have been privately issued.
The Acting-Governor of N.S.W. receives
one-half the Governor’s salary while acting. Thus
•Judge Parley will get at the rate of £3500 a year,
in addition to his salary as Chief Justice.
Sydney Daily Telegraph has evidently
renounced belief in payment of members,, i.c., it
has renounced gammoning to believe in such pay-
Ri‘nt. But it doesn’t dare to say so right out.
The floods are a godsend to the Griffil-
wraith gang, They have been trading on the
shearers’ strike for a long time, but it was getting
stale. Now they have an excuse for everything.
Lilley condemns tides for Australians, but
says he accepted his own knighthood “ because he
regarded it as an official distinction.” Mr. Lilley
had better beg to be excused than try to excuse,
_ p l ® Bulletin repeats it—the N.S.W.
Labour-party has nothing to gain but everything
1° ICB3, by a dissolution of Parliament. A dis-
anict 11 "* n ° W w su *k Property- party to
The Melbourne press has started slobber-
ing over J. B, Patterson, as though he had
vi descended from Heaven into the local
hopeless j?° lt * cs ’ ’ nst ead of being an oft-proved
Seven thousand pounds of loan funds spent
Tf Parkes on a statueof Governor Phillip, Botany
«ay convict-gaoler, while N.S.W, was going head-
? ' )o 'y insolvency ! A mist of suspicion
shrouds this wasteful statue business.
The Bulletin is unreservedly gratified at
the issue of the N.S.W. motion of censure. The
choice lay between Parkes and Dibbs. They are
both bebaubled, and, therefore, both objection-
able, but Dibbs, at all events, never wrote a book.
The Melbourne papers that beslaver
Patterson and his rag tag and bob-tail majority of
three, affect a red and righteous indignation with
Dibbs, because that gentleman (also with a
majority of three) refused to bring about a dissolu-
tion.
Under Victorian law, all the part-owners
of a piece of land are entitled to vote in that con-
stnency. What is to prevent the members of any
Trades’ Union from buying a £lOO-allotment
among them and swamping the ballot-box with
their votes?
The Federal Council meeting, just brought
to a close at Hobart, was the most dismal of
failures. Members just yawned away the time
arid talked rubbish to fill up the weary hours.
Every effort was made to get up steam, but
unavailingly;
The “ gag ” has been indved successfully
on two Occasions lately in the N.S.W. Assembly
from the cross-benches. It was the Parkes crowd
which adopted the “closure” in N.S.W; John
Haynes now finds his muzzle turned into a respi-
rator by Dibbs;
An English syndicate is negotiating with
S.A. Government for a large tract of land at
Milang (S.A.) upon which to form an irrigation
colony. S.A. Assembly has frequently rejected
such overtures, but the Downer Ministry is likely
to overlook the fact,
Vice-vice-Royalty Madden at the Melb.
Federal banquet: “ During the last few weeks it
has been my good fortune to occupy the honour-
able office of Acting-Governor, and it is a
complete revelation to find I have so many
friends,’’ Sarcasm?
The maunderings of Murray Smith and
his fellow fossils about the revival of Freetrade in
Victoria, remind the Age of Dickens’ picture of
the old grandfather wandering around the grave
of Little Nell, murmuring ever and anon, “She’ll
come again to-morrow.”
Purves, Q.O. : “Though Australians, if
we went to Japan or Africa, we would call our-
selves Englishman, not Australians, and we ought
to have the sarpe responsibilities and privileges as
those who live in the mother country.” Which
SW|lA*i
if A f* i jotcky 1 jtadrferte !
Lti" qs
0 Llj^d*4.s
o
l\)U Ijtj do Jtcfuolly
means that because Purves would try to palm
himself off on a lot of ingenuous savages as a
bloated Briton, Australia should keep a standing
army for the benefit of the Empire, and go halves
in'The keep of Queen Victoria and her brood of
cormorants.
Premier Patterson (Vic.) has started by
expressing his desire to do anything possible to
soften the lot of James Munro. A truly “states-
manlike ” remark, considering that the history of
Jimmy’s dead financial companies has not yet
been by any means completed.
A syllogism. Major premiss ; The loss by
the Queensland floods is estimated at £2,000,000.
Minor premiss : The Government money in the
hands of the Q. N. Bank, on which the bank
averages a clear five per cent, profit, is estimated
at £2,000,00®. Conclusion;; Draw it.
At 10.15 p.ra. -on Wednesday, Feb, 8,
during the discussion in committee of the Elec-
toral Bill, there were just five members present in
the N.S.W. Legislative Council, and they were
half asleep. And yet John Davies says the Upper
House is the “ Voice of the Country.”
It has been discovered that -one <©f the
selected labour candidates in S.A. was dismissed
from the police force for being drunk on his beat.
Several sympathisers with the National Defence
League have been drunk in Parliament, but 'capi-
talists can afford to do this sort of thing.
Five years of Queensland history :—lBB9 •:
Mount Morgan boom. 1890: Ruinous floods.
1891: Coalition Ministry. 1892: Kanaka trade
and land-grant railways re-introduced. 1893:
More floods. It would be hard to find five more
disastrous epochs in the history of any country.
Frank Stephen, Chief Justice Madden’s
father-in-law, was author of the renowned political
expression, “Old hats.” As a M’Cullochite and
Higinbothamite, be fought Duffy, at Dalhousie.
He said he knew he wasn’t Duffy’s equal, but “ all
M'Culloch required was old hats at the end of
sticks.”
The Civil Service lifts its ugly head in
Victoria. Whom the wish to ruin they first
■dement. The Association meditates such a strdke
as the issue df circulars to the candidates on
the eve of the general election. The Service
threatened once before with its 30,000 votes, and
Shi els was furious.
Governor Kintore lately returned from a
two weeks’ cruise in “H.M.C.S; Protector.”
This annual jollification costs Kintore nothing,
but it costs South Australia £15,000, and indig-
nant, hard-up citizens want to know how long
the luxury is to last. The Protector has cost
about £150,000 outside the Original outlay;
Parkes was unspeakably furious afc thd
matter-of-fact way in which the N.S.W. Opposi-
tion agreed to confirm G. H. Reid in the Opposi-
tion leadership. His offer to leave Parliament
and retire altogether from politics was but the
outward and visible sign of a savage resentment
which he dared not more directly manifest;
John Wane, Q.C., M.L.A. (N.S.W.), is
rarely in the House. As he doesn’t earn his Par-
liamentary salary his conscience probably pricks
him, and so he wishes to abolish Parliamentary
salaries, as if that would absolve him from his
duties. The man who does not fairly earn his
£3OO a year is not fit to be a representative.
John Davies did not work harder in
N.S.W. Council than Trickett, Pigott, and Jacob
for the insertion of the “ Thrift ” clause. . But his
stonewalling, unintentionally, played into the
hands of Dibbs by delaying its insertion until the
Parkes motion was disposed of. He saw this too
late, and the “conspiracy of silence” came at the
wrong time.
Thus Dangar, M.L.C. (N.S. Wales) :
I deny, with all the strength of which I am possessed,
that election mobs represent in any degree the views or
wishes of the people. When I speak of the people I
speak of the people who have votes and who have interests
in the country.
Could bigotry, ignorance and class-selfishness go
further?
Purves tells the A.N.A. that they must
aspire to make Australia “a noble and grand
appendage of the British Empire.” An
appendage ! A pendulous wart!
Let your country e’er be trotted
’Fore the world, whilst nations rail,
Like a tin-can firmly knotted
To the British Lion’s tail.
Editor Bulletin, —One of the largest
retail drapery, etc., establishments in Sydney, has
retrenched to the extent of 12£ per cent, on all
salaries, from the shop - boy upwards. The
upholsterers and such trades belonging to the
establishment, only get work, on an average, for
a day and a half in the week, and are paid accord-
ingly, minus the reduction. Yet the snivel servants
ery out at a proposed reduction of 6 per cent, on
their full-time salary I—E.H.
The utter incompetence of the bulk of the
members of the N.S.W. Labour-party to under
stand varying situations and their duty in each, is
clearly shown by the fact that only three or four
of them assisted the candidature of Fred. Flowers
for South Sydney. About half-a-dozen of the
party compare favourably with any other six men
in the House, but if the balance have any ability
it is carefully concealed beneath mountains of
apathy, laziness, and disinclination for mental
activity.
Zola airily assumes that all public life is
necessarily rotten. In some countries the oorrup
tion is always covered up, and in others it is
brought to light periodically. Political business,
says the French moralist, is in itself a very dirty
oeeu,patron, and will always remain so, wherefore
he “believes i«a the ultimate victory of the
Socialists, but their day has not dawned yet.” In
the opinion of Zola, then, and of ail intelligent
thinkers, it is the decree of Nature that “repre-
sentative ” men must hate the very name .of
Socialism.
Victorian Premier Patterson is going the
way of all the rest. Patterson's one alleged good
quality was that he said what fie meant, and said
it with a yell which was distinctly audible from
the Treasury all the way to Spencer-street railway-
station, that he spoke straight out, and told the
truth, no matter low disagreeable, every time.
Yet, when he appeared at Castlemaine t® explain
his policy, he maundered for two hours and ex-
plained nothing;. It was a mere buzz of plati-
tudes. Even that dheap Sphinx, SI id els, was never
so misty as the once bull-headed man of Castle-
maine.
The Madden (Vic.) Chief Justiceship ap-
pointment makes an amazingly awkward prece-
dent, which has much alarmed some of their
Honors who have hitherto fully expected to be
asked to sit up higher. Puisne Judge Dodds
(Tas.) would not get the Chief Justiceship were it
vacant to-morrow. It would almost certainly go
to Solicitor-General Alfred Dobson, or Inglis-
Clark, the ex- Attornoy-General. Dodds hassome
idea of doffing the ermine and returning to tire
Senatorial Chamber. He had better not. As a
politician he was a mere flash-in-the-pan, and his
short-lived fame is forgotten.
The “ thrift ” vote, inserted by the N.S.W.
Legislative Council in the Elections Act, is an in-
ane absurdity. It gives the landowner a vote
only for property held outside the electorate of his
residence. Thus a wealthy man, owning much
land only in the electorate where he resides, will
have but one vote, while his poor neighbour*
with an allotment outside, will have two. It
only shows the absurdity of the “cash” vote*
Another absurdity of the property vote is that it
may only give a choice of two votes. A man’s
property vote may be so distant from his resi-
dence vote that it will be impossible to exercise
both.
The Electoral Bill, as parsed by N.S.W;
Legislative Council, reduces the proportion of the
property-vote to the total vote from 7.0 per cent;*
at which it has previously stood, to probably less
than two per cent. The Ministry should accept
this reduction and immediately draw up a bill td
absolutely abolish the property-vote; Such a bill
could, Under Parliamentary rules, Hot be dealt
with this session 5 but it could be after a ten days’
prorogation; The issue will then be clear and
distinct—one vote or two. The Council has cut
the wind-pipe of its clients; let the Assembly
now complete the job by slitting the Council’s
Carotid artery;
“Price Waning *’ is henceforth to edit the
Workman (Sydney). The N.S.W. democratic
party had better hurry up and establish a daily
paper of their own—each shareholder to have one
vote and no more. Every daily paper at present
issued in N.S. Wales has over and over again
demonstrated its readiness to “ turn dog ” at the
most critical periods. The existing daily press
appears to represent syndicates and bricks-and-
mortar, not flesh and blood. As we have said
before, the workman puts a penny in the daily
paper’s slot, and gets in return nothing but
the most poisonous insults.
On last censure vote the N.S. Wales
Government had a majority of six—“ Six pounds
a week,” remark the enemies of payment of
members. This time they got a majority
of only three —“Three hundred a year,”
sneers the National Ass, which in its general
election programme includes abolition of pay-
ment to members, or at most the paving
of £lOO a year to each representative. How-
ever, no amount of sophistry will upset the
democratic principle of payment to members,
which is the corollary to universal suffrage. Those
who believe in one must believe in the other, and
vice versa. The National Ass, being vice versa , is
perfectly logical.
That “ overwhelming triumph ” of Patter-
son at the Castlemaine poll was a poor affair. An
old-established fetish in the district and a billet-
provider of long standing, the blatant sectarian
was furthermore appealing to the electors from
the lofty elevation of the Premiership. Patterson,
as Premier, is such a dazzler for Castlemaine that
one would scarcely expect his opponent to poll 20
votes. Yet Longmore, a stranger, with no politi-
cal influence to recommend him to parochial
minds, no good war-cry to raise, and no recent
prestige to stand upon, found 617 supporters as
against the 1441 who shrieked for Patterson.
Considering the “ tons of weight ” that Longmore
was giving away, The Bulletin considers that lie
ran the better horse of the two.
"Only One of Thousands."
Mr, Matthew Laing, clerk, Carrington, who
writes on January 9th, 1893 : —With thousands of
others I feel it my duty to testify to the many
good qualities of Clements Tonic. For the past
three years I have suffered from indigestion, pains
between the shoulders, &c. I have tried the
principal colliery doctors, but their medicines
never had any beneficial effect. One day whilst
sitting at my desk, totting up column after column
of figures, my attention was drawn to a pamphlet
containing some testimonials bearing upon the
curative powers of Clements Tonic, and I tried it
with the gratifying result that after taking two or
three bottles all pain left me, and X felt an
entirely new manand, needless to say, I have
continued to take Clements Tonic, and I would no
more think of going to my work in the morning
without my customary dose than I would
endeavour to convince Sir George Dibbs that he
did not do right in spending that ,£lOOO for his
trip to the .old country. Were Ito write pages of
foolscap £ could not say too much in praise of
Clements. Morning after morning I have arisen
from my bed with a sack and languid feeling,
almost unable to go to my work. As I said before.,
that feeling has now entirely disappeared, and I
can go to my work as fresh as a proverbial daisy-
fit, in fact, to show Treasurer See how to put the
finances of this young country on a sound and
prosperous footing. Already I have recommended
Clements Tonic to scores of my friends, and rest
assured, Mr. Clements, as long as I live and I
have the power to “ wield a quill ” in the interests
of your really wonderful medicine I will do so,
believing as I do that it is the duty of every man
to do so who has been permanently cured. In my
case you have beaten five doctors, and it is with
no end of pleasure that I send you these few lines
of acknowledgment, knowing that you will give
publicity to the fact that I am only one of thou-
sands who have been benefited by your marvellous
Clements Tonic. It is my desire that every
sufferer from indigestion should read this entirely
unsolicited testimonial, and then, and not until
then, will X consider I have done my duty to
suffering humanity. In conclusion, Mr. Clem-
ents, I look upon you as a public benefactor, and
your name will never be'obliterated from my
memory,—Wishing you and your truly marvellous
remedy every success, believe me, yours truly,
Matthew Laing, Colliery Office, Carrington, New
South Wales.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla was the first successful blood
medicine ever offered to the public. This prepar-
ation is still held in the highest estimation both
at home and abroad. Its miraculous cures and
immense sale show this.
The Euoalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.


t
ftp |
i ? <*>? KM y*
Thf (Jf tF*
tr«M.—*
ij /£> //
tali./-.
o
o me 1 D °N£jr/(
£fffCTS„ OF EATINC, AUSTRALIAN FROZEN MEAT ON ENGLISH LAPIFS.
Ot What Dibbx fold Vje friyce of iVdlcs.
Rir. Heaton denies that the colonia l
Governments disinclined to have the
reform instituted, and offers to visit the
colonies, if necessary, to obtain their
assent
ljT«
Vv/oaU o?«
t*. ,r
/ letfeVj Carrie
foh |
c ;*w •.
> 4 >.
JBefo re >lus-
Wviat) froze* njeaf
Aft*
rf-R-H .P/bhsey, frzycefotffr
I will Us< /4us(>a-
llfth 1 "
Qaod Boy - Pa V\)» l\ juvx
buy 'Jjca *}<>yey-bo/ ?
)a )*5 fJ'K *
(joo*/ */<u,t
■fo (fdtrp fa ()£ tt/ot
J (yay l/ifej
T
iJaMTtf 'aj ty
IUtfILSS
>- fA
y~ >
£ u
c
o ca
z
/[■ oo m
kfti/V* Started for
- Ruryor5 vc 7
/\f 5 Iv fc' 7**K*V- Ij ere
old / We.rc area b<>x *} tr ) (^c ) t S
ajd a luiy/> oj. inrjytojG., o(oia^
3* ii 4r '
s3««i •/ /•*' o,;> >
——— Af y f~ CL .
J'ljKf i> r ‘~
c!octfd ”Re 3 aj U«*fr
I "irj/epofj ft ?farh 0.
lfji'V*£l)oUr ifi Quptrj
a*a J’erfy '5 i') I 3"
■i, </«for r a 'T ,J>
fsoK^eh
The next business of importance which the
Government propose to deal with in'Parlia*
( mcnt is the Income Tax Bill., If the Govern-
ment manat'* tp ;get this measure through it
is probable that on attempt wilf be mode to
pass the estimates.
N oh* ,
•• (To/- Pye Tr^
'l-'Wlb.aw U ' d f er f/ U^,^*“-
Vere Ur Ciw 8..J.1. Jo-jbwiy'J* f»' ’’ J “
to urji } Ucli,
* /
CRINOLINE—AND OTHER MATTERS.


(NSouveNx r
COURT.
I \\\S 'W
v
x \ao " '
ijflSBK. - v ”
I er <f I 5 a.{ d. 1 l\a.cl com^
IruxcH to to
any cljaryes tt\cCt cou.]d lie '
asTairv^t~~me,
-h «•
i #\rs ineeTs en\.
Tre.h Trf\dl
V
T?-ev/iVecl Skeleton.—
S Could onAj
find a to
Stand uporxl
PROFESSOR ■RICHfIRDS.M.E.
Uewsft after \ejoo rfer. - h
(t trus. J Processor 't/iat you. arc
sorncbocfty else ?’’ *
projesso r. Doo ! How rCa-rxJUe
impost are ven 3 cxm. -under ■zee
pciProrvge z.€€ Qov-oun ever ?"
o
CflPlTFl L,
V.K
NO TIC EL •
Sr.KILOft LINE
(ONLY)
Of-
"Petio AitcuL
j Ticket Holdei's~'c"ar^
I obtom similar lick«ts H+---
\ at a 50 joer cent rectucfi<jn_ : -
w ij-e of a Ticket Holder ?
arshinTeNiflLt. Tmlfje -urij-c
of Two ctricl I want a-
I i o I
■free |?a5S- j
Ounur.- Wijat7
bucking <*■ <g ain_ ! We
<fe~ts 'too imcl\
C orru"
o
u "Well
Vm free,"
( Trescnfoti'oiv-fo
B e rx j a i m*n 9enJ ct^^.)
Sir IS-mjamin Benjamin briefly replied. For
some time past be had bad a great deal of
worry and troujble, but lie bad now got through
all his troubles and difficulties and stood beforo
them as freo a man as he had ever been, both
»s regarded financial and other public matters.
Tames Service,
at-'Ti a evocl
T) o. w cty u. elt
- fle regretted ex-
tremely that circumstances would prevent the
great federal movement from bar*
! ing his assistance in the future.
However, when he saw sa many new faces
coming to the front he did not despair, and he
felt sure that with the earnest co-operation of
the younger generation of politicians which was
rising up, federation would become an accom-
plished fact before many years had passed.
Tedcrau ,„
Yiiz - ■
Tor It-ulr'C
"CENtte-"*
7 F
i
TEOEfIAt- ~=Y
CHRMVfUjNZ
CHIEFLY IN MELBOURNE.


EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
"SPECTACLES* their i nr, when Required,
and how In I’nrchaHo,”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should he
read hy all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly Qualified Opticians, and shall he
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists' Opticians,
4C2, 474 & 687 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PEM ELL'S
SNOW-WHITE
ItOLLRK FLO UK.
O O D 8 P P C..
SAFE, PROFITABLE*
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands* Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
publicrvvorks. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW*
£35 (PROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SIJIHfUrtAN BLOCKS/ PERTH, PtUM JSICJ
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title,
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company* Ltd.
(Ratal). 1885), .100 , Sydney, N.H.W.
W. .1. DOUO T* A S,' Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Society
Dear Bulletin, - A delightful piece of
society intelligence appeared in a Sydney paper on
Monday week re Lady Jersey’s malaya (excursion)
to Apolima, one of the Samoan Group. Owing to
the heavy surf running it was impossible for Lady
J. to land, whereat she was “distressed, not only
on her own account but on account of the natives
themselves who had made elaborate preparations
to do honour to the occasion.” To allay the
poignant grief of the darkies of the little crater
isle who had been denied the vision of the Koruna's
fa’c tua, Mr. B. M. Haggard, the British Land
Commissioner (brother, by the way, to “my
brothah Rida.li) ’ was sent last December with
‘Lady Jersey’s portrait, suitably framed, to be
presented as a souvenir of her visit to Samoa.”
Brother Bassett, we are told, was accompanied by
J'ii atulia, the wife of the High Chief Se’umanu-
tafa. It sounds romantic! but the writer well
knows poor, bony, old 1 a’atulia! also her liege lord,
the Bird Snarer, who isn’t High Chief at all. He is
only the local chief of Apia littoral, and Fa’atulia
is, and has been for the past twenty years, the
swell blanchisseuse of Apia—does washing at 2dols.
a dozen, and in soliciting custom displays with
pride her testimonials from various naval officers.
One, in particular, a very tender-looking docu-
meat, is from a U.S. Vice-Consul, stating that
r a atulia, High Chieftainess of Samoa (sic),
washed (sic) the officers of the U.S.S. Resacca
and Jamestown very efficiently.” All the same,
Fa atulia is a very decent old lady, even though
she does occasionally sit in a much undressed
condition up to her stayless waist in the limpid
waters of the Yaisigago and batter the white
folks’ dnds about with a wooden mallet on a
flat slab of coral. And Se’u is a hospitable
old pirate, too, always ready to summon his bevy
of aua luma to chew a bowl of kava for the
str.mgec within his gate. However, it is just as
well that Lady J. didn’t land at Apolima and be
entertained, the which means much feasting,
long-winded, beastly—flattering orations by the
native speakers, and, as a wind-up. a po'ula, or
dance, in which the Taupo, or Maid of the
Vdlage, exhibits her dexterity with a naked mob
of howling young manaia (anglice “bucks”).
Before the dancers are half through, the white
lady visitor generally makes a bolt outside if she
can’t cover her head with her dress or a floor-mat.
Even Commodore Goodenough couldn’t stand the
latter part of a Samoan ballet, but fled in the
midst of the revelry from Matafagatele to Apia,
a good two miles, at dead of night, and vowed
ne’er to look upon such again. Also it may be
safely wagered that the “ picture suitably framed ”
will, after hanging upside-down for six weeks in
the local faipu/e house, be traded away to the
Mmono crowd for three baskets of taro and an
unhealthy pig. Then it will go to Apia, or Mata-
fele, and be swapped for a bar of soap, a tin of
sardines, and two bottles of gin, finally adorning
the walls ol* a local sailors’ boarding-house
kept by some greasy Portuguese individual with
curly hair and ear-rings.—F,
On an average
day at the Sydney
registry offices, there
are required about
nine white men, 20
coloured, and 30 mar-
ried couples for
stations. Recently
the writer received
two letters from
station hands stat-
ing that they had
been dismissed, as
the employers were
engaging married
couples. Evidently
tli e squatters find
that married couples
on £6O per year never
join unions nor go on
strike.
* • #
Miss Mary Stock-
dale, of Oollingwood,
Melbourne, has The
Bulletin’s dee pest
sympathy. Mary is
aged seven months,
and is the young
lady with the tail.
We understand that
Miss Stoekdale does
not care a great deal
a bout the noise
created over her
caudal appendage
justlnow, but we are
thinking of the time
when Mary will be
18, and sqhtimental
and sensitive how
painful it will be to
have t dl cast in
her teeth, so to speak.
And tl|e strictly
orthodox mint always
reg a r d her with
horror, as a living
testimony against
Genesis in favour of
the Darwinian hypo-
thesis. Mary 's parents
say her tail is growing, but, as yet, it betrays no
indication of developing a barb.
Chief Justice Madden, of Victoria, is to
be formally dined by members of the Bar
“proper,” and no amalgams need apply for
tickets. Thus the Bar Proper seeks to recommend
itself to litigants whose cases are likely to come
before the Chief. “I rise to pulverise the argu-
ments of my inferior learned friend, who, by the
way, was recently debarred from banqueting in
our company, your Honour.”
# # #
A bombshell fell in Hobart Supreme Court
the other day. A sweet young thing of seventeen
summers was being cross-examined as to her
amours with an Assyrian hawker. “ Was he the
only man?” asked Inglis Clark. “No,” said the
girl, looking straight into the well of the Court,
“there was two or three of them lawyer gents—-
’speshly that one witii the bald ’ed.”
* * *
Gov. Glasgow (M.L.) visited Dunedin, the
other day, and overflowed to a deputation about
the old Scotch associations of the city. He said
that its very name awakened pleasant memories
of Caledonia, and that the kilts of the local Rifles
were a comfort to his soul, and the accent of the
people, and the names on the signboards—said
names being chiefly Donald —and the architecture,
and the pibroch of the Hielan’man at the corner
by the Colonial Bank, all made him feel as if he
were once more at home, and even the drizzling
sky was suggestive of the murky shores of the
Hebrides. Then he congratulated the deputation
on their common Scotch origin, and having got
all this off his chest he glanced at the deputation’s
signatures at the foot of the address and found
that they were mostly Solomon, Joel, and Rabbi
Chodowski, also a gentleman named Moss.
There are now no less than six journalists
in Mr. Courtney Smith’s Echo Farm (Sydney)
Home for inebriates. However, the farm isn’t
named, as might unreasonably be supposed, after
Sydney Echo.
# # *
N.S. Wales has seven Supreme Court
Judges, with aggregate salaries amounting to
£19.100 and perks. Yet, on Saturday last, when
NO WATER.
HIS WORSHIP : “Six months. How will you have it—with or
without hard labour?”
DRUNK: “I allus takes mine neat, yer Worship.”
Judge Foster was ill, no other Judge could be
foimd to take Chamber business.
• • #
Have any of the great Symo family been
marrying lately ? The editor tag.s the following
on to a letter in a recent Age, complaining about
a bogus advt. for labourers ;
Next to what is known as tinkettlimr, our social system
is disgraced by no grosser act of barbarism and brutality
than the practice to which our correspondent has been a
victim.
## _ «
In the inquiry as to the Picturesque
Atlas it will, we hear, be sought to prove that a
certain official was over-ready to give the company
verdicts, and that lie was a salaried contributor to
the Atlas.
• » *
Binjy Binjy’s schedule “showed” 12s. Bd.
in the £—he paid a modest shilling and obtained
his release. If the odd lls. Bd. was pure irnagina-
tion The Bulletin rises to suggest that the next
knightly “broker” be requested to lay bare his
unknightly condition at the start. The highly
tinted schedule is evidently got up to please polite
society, which, no doubt, gazed dreamily in
the opposite direction when Binjy’s nominal
<£30,634 of assets were boiled down to a payment
of £2350,
# * #
The saddest scene of the Queensland
floods : Three poor women at Ipswich, dripping
wet, trying to dig a hole through to where.their
husbands lay drowned like rats, in a mine-tunnel
30 feet below. The motive was so grand, the
workers so earnest, the pot-holes so pitiful!
The latest nonsense
about the reformation
of society is a novel
by the notorious Lady
Florence Dixie shadow-
ing forth the coming
equality of women with
men—in every way. The
heroine, the daughter of
a divorcee, insists on
being sent to Eton
dressed as a boy! In
this garbshe goes through
her college course, rides
andwins races, goes into
Parliament and leads a
party, &c., &c. This all
to pi-ove that the differ-
ence between women and
men results solely from
their different training.
The book is a mass of
absurdity; where it is
not absurd it is prurient,
and where it is not
prurient it is nas t y.
Consequently, it is likely
to be very popular in-
deed.
* * *
A low, common kind
of a correspondent writes
to suggest that it would
tend to materially
strengthen those silken
bonds if one or two of
Meston’s “ Wild Austra-
lian” blacks were married
to sprigs of British
royalty. No doubt, Mes-
ton has a king or two in
his crowd, and if the
princesses took a few
lessons in carrying dilly-
bags and smoking there
seems to be no obstacle
to the union—provided
always that the blacks
are agreeable.
• * •
The Argus re the
Melbourne tram trouble:
“ It would be an act of
refined cruelty to suspend
dividends so long as
they cart be paid without
unduly .oppressing the
employes.” At the time
this was written, the
Argus did not consider
10 per cent, off about £2
for 70 hours’ work undue
oppression.
The Queensland floods made good “copy’’
for the papers. An Ipswich reporter recorded
that “a voice which even floods must obey,” said,
“Thus far, and responsive to-day as of old in the
Galilean storm the waters bowed as it were to the
behest of their Creator.’’ This is just like
Ipswich. “As it were” is splendid. A Too-
woomba scribe tried to beat it by picturing Bris-
bane residents gazing on the scene of devastation,
on a pitch-dark night when the gas was cut off,
by the light of “flashes from the foaming river.”
# # #
The Vic. Executive Council has appointed
a Parliamentary Board to solve the mystery of
the missing mace.
For women who paint their faces. “ A
woman who buys her colour wants to sell it.”
—Chinese.
* # #
“ Calico is needed for 50,000,000 African
women,” is the burden of a letter just received
in Melbourne from Nyassa, written by Joseph
Booth, a Prahran milkman, who went as mis-
sionary. Evidently 50,000,000 poor women go
about in a ballot poor state.
# # #
A N.S.W. paper publishes a story about a
man who Hanged himself. Being discovered four
hours later he was cut down, and “the usual"
means of resuscitation were employed, but without
success.” The methodical woodenness of the
daily paper reporter looms forth in that last sen-
tence. The man Who Wrote it would rush to put
a hot flannel on the stomach of Raineses the (Treat
when his mummy is unrolled in the museum, in
the hope of bringing the monarch round.
• # #
The “Queen City of the South” has
pawned its crown.
From Sydney Ma.il editorial 21/1/93 •_
At the sarae time it is cleai . that the mother waa
altogether at sea in her diagnosis, and, of course i„ hf!
treatment. She thought the girl was suffering from liver
disease, whereas the flatulent symptoms were the result
of dyspepsia, due to the want of tone in the system. The
treatment, however, was not injurious, if it was not
beneficial.
There we discern the master-hand of the patent
*" “•«
* ■ *
Why doesn’t one of the hard-up Australian
Governments put a moderate tax on beauty ’
There would be no difficulty in collecting it, and
not one woman would demur to being so taxed.
CONVINCING HIS COUSIN.
OUTSIDE PARTY (to up-country Postmaster) : “Would yer be afther
shtamping that parcel whin yer send it off, sir?”
POSTMASTER : “Yes; oh, what does it contain?”
O. P.: “A thermomiter.”
P.: “A what?”
O. P.: “A thermomiter, uv coorse; me cousin down in Sydney won’t
believe that the heat is 110 up here, an Oi’m just sendin’ him
down the thermomiter for him ter see for himself.”
Much adieu about nothing—Gov. .Ter
sey’s departure.
* # #
Is there, we wonder, any country on earth
besides Australia where this kind of advertise-
ment is practically kept standing in the daily
press ? These are all out Of one issue of one
paper:—
T HEREBY publicly APOLOGISE lo Miss ELLEN
x lor having- assaulted her and used obscene
language to her, and I also swear that I will not
molest her again from this time henceforth, (Signed)
ALEXANDER .
TF Mrs. does not stop slandering my Daughter,
x I will take proceedings at once. Mrs. .IANE .
I HEREBY warn any person or persons against
miking unfounded and slanderous charges
against me after this date, the same being untrue.
SARAH
"I HEREBY retract the slanderous language I used
against ELKLAND SMITH, the same having no
foundation, in fact. JOHN OSOOTT.
TF Mrs. —— does not stop using foul language to
■* my BOY, I will take proceedings against her after
this date. MARIA .
We meet this sort of thing so regularly in the
Sydney papers, that it would seem as if half the
community spends most of its time abusing the
other half. Why doesn’t the lady who is thus
openly accused of using bad language to the other
lady’s offspring, sue the paper for libel? It almost
always is a lady who has used the language,
by-the-way. When the case lies between two
men, they probably batter each other with road*
metal instead of advertising.
* # •
And here are some more from Sydney R. News !
TF Mr. and Mrs. 8., of Crown-st., do not stop scan*
x dalising me, I shall take further proceedings at .
once. A.O.
T CAUTION all Persons against Slandering my name
x after this date, ns I shall take legal proceedings.
Mrs. W. Klein, Guildford.
TF Mrs. ——, of Charles-st., Liverpool, does not
x Apologise to Alice Campbell for slander—the
apology to appear in this paper Thursday—further
proceedings will be taken. WILLIAM CAMPBELL, .
jun., Charles-st., Liverpool.
A POLOOY.—I, J. L—- hereby Apologise to Florence
xx Flannigan for the Words' used, there being no
truth in them.
THE PHANTOM VALENTINE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
If Father Time were younger, Flo,
By twenty years or more—
If you were living long ago,
And I, the boy of yore,
In crudest song of “ stars above,”
And ‘‘eyes that brighter shine,"
I would have begged my lady love
To choose her Valentine.
But valentines are not for now,
Old sentiment is dead ;
The lines are deep in Cupid’s brow,
From which his hair has fled.
The day went by-you didn’t know
What joy there was in store
Had you been living long ago,
And I the boy of yore.
I sent a valentine, ’tis true —
In fancy, not in fact;
A lace-edged box, addressed to you,
The lid a little crack’t.
Last Tuesday would have seen it, Flo,
Delivered at your door,
Had you been living long ago,
And I the boy of yore.
I hope you kissed it many times,
And held it to your breast,
And learned by heart its tawdry rhymes
Before you went to rest.
I long to hear you tell me so—
Alas ! the dream is o’er ;
We are not living long ago,
I’m not the boy of yore.
Melb.
EDMUND FISHER.
A Board to track Sir Matthew’s mace,
Ri-tol-de-rol-deray !
Pray will they search each shady place,
And ask a girl with painted face
If she has aught to say
Upon this most suh-rosa case
That has perplexed the human race?
O, cleanse the ’Ouse of all disgrace,
Ri-tol-de-rol-deray !
Now’, if the mace was never seen
(Ri-tol-de-rol-deray !)
By anyone—it can’t have been—
To figure in a festive scene
Since first it went away,
VVhat does a fresh enquiry mean ?
VVe read the statement in between
The lines and cry, “God Save Hie Queen—
Ri-tol-de-rol-deray!”
No gentleman, or lady fair,
Ri-tol-de-rol-deray !
Will come and take an oath and swear
The mace was shifted from its lair
In legislative play.
The world will ne’er be made aware,
The bauble mutt be white-washed—there I
Ri-tol-de-rol-deray !


EOSE ; S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
TH E BE ST DRINK FO R AL L.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold by n'l Storekeepers, etc.
General Agents:
JULES RENARD <Sc CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Incomparable—G NUN Darlings.
On the ’bus* smoke O N IT N Darlings*
PEM ELL'S
A.B.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAT,.
“To
"THE BULLETIN’S ” MISSING WORD
COMPETITION COUPON.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by ISth February, 1893.
The action of George Giffen, in insisting
that that second-rate cricketer, his brother
Walter, shall accompany him to England as
a member of the Australian representative
team, may be charitably construed as a
touching illustration of fraternal affection.
But it may, on the other hand, be regarded
as an evidence of
Name...
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
a clear night,
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold-
W.H. PALING & CO.
(LIMITED),
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS EEURICH,
UEBEL & LEGHLKITEII, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “CELLING.’
Pianos by all Good Makoiv.
ESTEY ORGANS, Uoosey’s RAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
A lady critic in a Melbourne weekly :
“ Even the dress of the Highland lassie has un-
mentionable peculiarities, but these peculiarities
by no means detract from the merits of the show,”
jjnmentionable peculiarities never do* dear.
• * *
Next to the bdttle-gatherer and fruit-
hawker, the baker’s man is the least trustworthy
Visitor to one’s premises. This peculiarity of
human nature is probably connected, in some
mysterious manner, with a superabundance of
alum in the bread.
© • •
A Sydney coftin architect assures The
Bulletin that since the Makin revelations the
demand for “babies’ shells” has increased
enormously. # #
Constable' Spillane,- of Melbourne, who
“justifiably hdmicided ” a larrikin with his baton
last week, magnanimously “ shouted ” the corpse
a fufieral. # #
Editor Bulletin;—The applause at the
Organ Recital irt Sydney R.C. Cathedral, the
other day, Was a novelty. No such proceedings
Were ever heard of in Ireland or England, and
Won’t be again in N.S.W. —Tip per ary.
* * •
Queensland makes another attempt to
float alone.
# # *
The Bulletin has received an advance
copy of Explorer Lindsay’s plans of hisexpedition-
toute; Much of the slavish nomenclature adopted
is to be placed to the debit of the Geographical
Society and of Goyder, C.M.G. (Surveyor-
General). It is more than probable that Mr.
Thomas Elder will send Lindsay out again, but
he won’t have anything to do with the Geographi-
cal Society this time. Even the womankind of
the members of the Council have been honoured
in knoll, glen, creek, hill, and range, the only
member whose name is omitted from the map
being Mr. Bonython, proprietor of the Adver-
tiser, and thereby hangs an amusing tale which
may one day be told. The range which Lindsay
named after Forrest is called “ Einlayson ” (pro-
prietor of S. A. Register) on the map, and a little
mount close by is christened after his wife (Alice)
—another alteration. Kyffin Thomas (of the
Register) has a bilk
Editor Bulletin, —The foundation-stone
of a new hospital has just been laid on the
Murray by Masons, and with Masonic ceremony.
Is this fair to the Catholics who contributed tc
that hospital? Is it fair to the general rate-
payers of the province, who have contributed 8(J
per cent, of the cost up to now ? Is it fair to the
contributing men, like myself, who hate Masons
and Oddfellows, and Hibernians, because they
wear aprons and bibs and sashes and such-like
old womanities ? B.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Your Queensland corres-
pondent, in re sugar-making by lepers, reminded
me of some North Australian experiences of
mine. At a certain plantation, when refining
was going on, you could see naked aboriginals
standing knee - deep in the vats shovel-
ling out molasses into the refiner. If these
noble savages could not expectorate out of the
vats from where they stood—well, they had to
spit into them. And North Australia has pro-
vided a black leper or two, with the promise of a
good crop later on.—G.
# » «
In the Northern Territory the Govern-
ment pays £5 for the defence of a blaekfellow
charged with murder, and £lO for the defence of a
white man similarly arraigned. Justice melts
before the light of economy.
* * *
A (Mabriland) love-story, late in life. An
old soldier and wife returning to their suburban
home, after drawing his pension and spending
'Portions of same at various wayside pubs. Scene,
after leaving last hostelry; time, about 8.30 p.m.
Pensioner (beerily)Come on, my dear.’’ Wife
(savagely): “Don’t call me your dear, you old
beast!” Pensioner (with military intonation):
“Come on, my devil.” The next scene is full of
sticking-plaster.— Waitemata.
* * #
The seven miners drowned by the flood in
the Ipswich coal-mine left 27 children !
# * *
One morning the week before last a Sydney
merchant advertised for a clerk. By 3 p.m. he
had received 132 applications, 98 delivered per-
sonally, 34 by post; 120 of the applicants were
apparently competent, and the best was selected.
He claimed proficiency in shorthand, English,
French, and German. His credentials covered 20
years of European and Australian experience—
and lie offered to work for 355. per week. The
average commercial experience claimed by the
applicants was 12 years. Twenty - eight appli-
cants claimed Continental or British experience,
four said they could speak and write English
and French ; three English and German; three
English, French, and German; one English,
French, and Spanish; and another English, Ger-
man, and Hutch ; and five on their credentials
were shorthand and type-writers. Five said they
had had businesses of their own which the bad
times had ruined ; 40 definitely stated their ages—
the youngest was 19, the oldest 43 years; the
average age was 29 years. One-half of the appli-
cations were written on good note or business
paper, one-third on paper of poor quality ; 10
came on pieces of foolscap, eight on Coffee Falace
note, one on a butcher’s bill, one on an Iron-
monger’s, and one on the bill of a timber-merchant.
Ten said that at time of writing they were in
temporary employment; three said they were
single; six, each with first-class credentials.
Owned to the married state. All the married
applicants had a sentence like this : “I have A
wife and family and I will gladly commence on a
small salary.” Seventeen others, 12 having excel-
lent references, were willing to take wages rang-
ing from £2 2s.- to 255. per week. “Being
destitute, I will be thankful to accept any offer.”
“As being out of work does not suit my consti-
tution, I will gladly take 255. per Week.” “ I will
take, any salary and Work any hours.” One
applicant said he had been “ honoured with the
predicates gifted and industrious,” and yet he
“ now toiled 85 hours per week for a butcher.”
# # #
Bear Bulletin, — He. the 4t warrigal con-
troversy,” let me say that the word “warrigal”
was current aboriginee ere the British Lion
deposited “our forefathers’’ here. Since then,
the word has been applied, both by blacks and
whites, to anything wild, from the warrigal steer
to the warrigal cabbage, exactly as the familiar
combination “old-man” is used to denote any-
thing large or formidable, from a kangaroo to a
swindle, from a species of salt-bush to a hammer-
ing ; or the adopted corruption, “ picanniny,”
to denote anything small or insignificant, such as
the church-collection currency. But during the
idyllic era of Australia—extending from the year
1 A.M. to 1788 A.D. —“warrigal” signified “out-
o
A PROBLEM.
ONE MAN : “And do you always pay as you go?”
THE OTHER MAN : “Well, when they won’t let me go without, what’s a fellow to do?”
law,” or, more properly, what tho Anglo-Danes
called “ wolf’a-head," a judicious nbscoiuhr from
such law'norder as prevailed under tin- simple
rttjiine of the House of Bugaboo. Tribal enmity
precluded the foregathering of the homicide, or
busted boomer, or co-respondent of those clays
with any clan but his own, and the fugitive was
constrained to eat in solitude the bitter ’possum
of banishment, till the memory of his transgression
waned : then the Warrigal returned, sadder and
\viser f to the redolent. Itosom of his tribe. 1 am
MirpriHnd that this explanation should be neces-
sary, when I remember how common, in the days
of my childhood, was the harmless bravado of any
strange blackfellow on being asked his name:
41 No name —warrigal.” But history soon becomes
ancient.—Tom Collins,
# * •
* 4 What, price the Education Act ?” ejacu-
lates a Bulletin correspondent, “ Last Sunday
afternoon, in Sydney, I saw a young fellow ami
his girl, who bad a letter to post, carefully scru-
tinise the tire-alarm on the post at, ‘banner’s
Corner.’ After a fruitless attempt, extending
over several minutes, the innocent pair failed to
get the letter into it, and walked away towards
Elizabeth-strect, where they fell in with a.
street ‘orderly bin,’ Having carefully looked
this over, they opened the slide, dropped in the
letter, shut it up, and walked off in the full and
happy belief that their letter Wilts in the careful
ouso
totalled JG7f)O.
Thousands of people who suffer from in-
digestiem swear against patent medicines, beCSUsc
tlmy have trim! so many nostrums, from which
they obtained but little (if any) relief. Boot’s
Indigestion Cure is the only absolute and per-
manent cure in Australia, it is no quack medi-
cim\ but is prepared from the prescription of a
legally-qualified medical man now practising in
Australia. 41
Tiie mmi and their conskkvation.
We dt-slre to call attention to the dental practice ol Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade ((iearue-slrcvt
entrance). He is the author of that popular t reatise on
“The Teeth,” mid tils 1* also the-only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are act on gold, silver, plnilmini,
vulcanite, xyonito, etc., from t? 5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are detracted Under pine nitron*
oxide gas nr cocaine, dally. Only address - Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon. King-street Arcade (flporgc.
tipciiimnos)
Signor Nerli, just returned from Samoa,
after a three months’ sojourn in that Paradise of
the Pacific, has not been idle. The numerous
landscapes he has brought back with him show
that he has distinctly caught the peculiar atmos-
pheric effect of the tropical climate in the South
Sea islands. This is specially noticeable in his
view of Apia; and his painting of a banana-grove
when the fruit is flowering, with the half-length
portrait of a native in the foreground, shows that
the artist is equally at home in landscape and
figures. But, beyond question, the best work
done by Signor Nerli during his visit to Samoa
is his portrait of Louis Stevenson, the novelist.
This is a remarkably fine piece of painting, the
■strange, dreamy expression of the clever brown
eyes being admirably caught; the broad, firm
handling of the subject is beyond praise; In this
instance Nerli evidently had a subject worthy of
his brush, and even his greatest admirers in Syd-
ney, who know only tdo well that he has been in
the habit of wasting his powers irt putting
on canvas representations of nonentities, who
look like nonentities, will be surprised at
this manifestation of his skill. It is to
be hoped that his Samoan experience will lead
him to attempt more earnest work than goes to
the production of pot-boilers, over which he has
frittered away his undoubted talent only too
long.
Spoug’s new drop - scene at Sydney
Criterion is a meritorious work of art, especially
when one takes into account that the painting
was bound to follow out the somewhat novel
scheme of decoration adopted in the new theatre.
From time immemorial, for some inscrutable
reason, the only style held to be suitable for a
play-house was that of the Renaissance, but the
decorator who was entrusted with the embellish-
ment of the Criterion determined to discard
tradition, and there can be no ’doubt that the
result has justified his decision. Hence we have
at least one playhouse in Australia for which it
may be fairly claimed that the interior decoration
is distinctly original and a scheme of colour and
design carefully and conscientiously worked out.
Mr. Spong chose for his subject a courtyard in a
Moorish palace. The bright blue sky in the back-
ground serves to throw into relief the rich reds
and greys of the intricate architecture in the
arches, while the yellow floor, with the geometrical
tiles, gives the necessary light to the whole. The
figures, which were painted by Mr. J. M'Cubbin,
of Melbourne, are unquestionably above the
average, more especially the dancing female,
in the centre of the composition. On one point
Mr. Spong is to be particularly complimented.
He has made his picture fill the whole of the can-
vas, instead of, as is usual in the large majority of
drop-scenes, being satisfied with painting an oval
or square, surrounded with lace, fillagree, or satin
curtains, which, however clever they may be from
a technical standpoint, are artistically meaning-
less. It is to be hoped that this new departure
will form a precedent for those scene-painters who
may be called upon to produce drop-scenes for
Australian theatres.
An aboriginal was observed the other 1
day, near Redfern station, giving a penny to a
blind man ! The average Australian black is
good-hearted enough to lend you his teeth, and
chew his food with his gtlms.
Gem of unconscious humour from one of
Dr; Wilford Hall’s testimonials j—“ I had tried
almost every variety, and taken bUcketfUlls of
Various drugs and medicines; I took ’s
twice every day for over a year, also 11 bottles of
—“*’s -- ——, four large bottles of-■ ■ -’s —■,
and still I was getting seriously Worse, and
thought mV end Was near.”
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure Mt ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Encalypte Honey or Eecalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. JTW For external use try Coi.emank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S. W
“ A library is a morgue, where each
searches for his beloved corpse.”—Heine.
There are now said to lie over 1000
inmates in Liverpool (N.S.W.) Benevolent
Asylum !
On a stone-slab in a Sydney suburb is the
legend : “ Sample stone from my quarries at
Hell’s Hole, Purgatory, Paradise and Bowral.”
One W.A. potentate, who now sits in ft
high place, in days gone by thought it no harnt
to brand his particular nigger on the bgck of
the neck !
On Ist February Brisbane Courier came
out as a penny paper. Next day rain started and
never stopped Until scores of people Were drowned,
hundreds made homeless, and thousands ruined;
Buzzy should be more careful;
THE WOOING O’ ’T,
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He was a bachelor, gallant and gay
She was a spinster prim—
Pretty and prim, with a wonderful way
Which had captivated him.
Oh ! well knew she what he wished to say,
So—never frigid nor freezy—
Molly M.iginnis managed that day
To make his saying o’’t easy.
“Bob, I shall get you a wife,” said she,
“Find some nice, dear girl for you ;
Bob! please tell me the sort she must be,
Shall her eyes be brown or blue?
“ Must she be of the ‘ plump and the pleasing ’ sort ?
Will the 1 slender and willowy ’ do?”
Here Robert the Bachelor, cutting her short,
Said ; “ She must be just like you !
“And to me, sweetheart, ’tis distinctly clear,
There is none in the world like you.”
This fell in the fall of the finished year,
They are married now in the New.
Warrego.
THE BREAKER.
A FRIENDLY WARNING.
L. L., old party,
Though loud and hearty.
With spiciest anecdotes and such replete.
There’s one thing lacking
If you’d be tracking
To Marlborough House to give Wales a treat,
Your style and diction
Will cause no friction,
And Blue Blood will roar when you wink yottr eye,
But you’ll drive ’em mad, sir,
And they’ll call you cad, sir,
If you move among ’em witKout e’er d He.
OLD DROMORE.


TATTERSALL’S
3\Tewnaarltet XXaxxdicap —Flcmlngton, March 4, im.
100,000 at ao 100,000
Australian Cup —Fleinliigtoii, March 7, 1893.
25,000 at 10 25,000
'ONLY ADDRESS:
“tatteksall.”
C/oGeo. Adams (Owner). Tatter
sail s Hotel & Ola Club Premise*
Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W, '
OFFENSIVE TASTE UPON AWAKENING
Is a disagreeable symptom of indigestion. Wolfe’s
Schnapps is as admirable for impaired digestion
as it is for kidney disease. Buy whole bottles.
Always the same—G NUN Darlings.
Boon to the suffering—Gf NUN Darlings.
After dinner, smoke a G N U N Darling.
On the ferry, smoke G N U N Darlings.
At Botany you can buy GNUN Darlings,
Gr N U N Darlings draw free and burn even.
Sporting.
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over SO Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN :
Newmarket Handicap— Flem., March 4
SYDNEY GOLD CUP.
BIRTHDAY EVP.
ox
Htj
00001
Be sure and register your letters and lake care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
" ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
Pboobammes Sent on Application.
“ Southern Cross ”
GENUINE
PRIZE CONSULTATIONS.
RELIABLE DRAWING AND PROMPT PAYMENT.
m- NOW OPEN TEA
on the
Newmarket Handicap
(4th March), and on the
SYDNEY GOLD CUP
(3rd April).
10,000 at 5 10,000
as follows:
o
20 at 20 100
20 at 10 200
20 at 5 100
50 at 1 50
Less 10 per cent.
110 PRIZES 110
In the event of not tilling, prizes will be pro rata.
An independent committee of gentlemen who
conducted the drawing on the Standish certify,
among other things, as follows
In this drawing, as conducted, collusion or fraud
of any kind was impossible, and every ticket had
an absolutely equal chance for a prize.
SPECIAL~PLEDGE.
We undertake that each Consultation will be
conducted by a committee of disinterested gentle-
men under “ The Sportsman ” Check List System,
which renders fraud impossible. For further par-
ticulars of this, send for prospectus, or see Sports-
man of January 4, 1893.
State clearly the amount enclosed, and send two
unattached stamps with addressed envelopes—one
for reply and the other for result. Make sure and
register your letters, and retain your receipts
until you receive a reply.
NOTE!
the }-
Address j
SOUTHERN CROSS,’
Care of J. S. WINTER,
P. 0.. Alhurr. N.S.W.
Sporting.
-THE-
§sst Thing ever Offered to the Public!
“ UNION ”
FINANCIAL CONSULTATION
—ON—
The Australian Cup - 80,000 at Is each
7th MARCH, 1893.
The Champion Stakes 80,000 at 1 each
9th MARCH, 1893.
The Sydney Gold Cup 80,000 at 1 each
3rd APRIL, 1893.
Each 4000, as follows :
First
Second
Third
S. (d.) .
N.-S. (d.) .
.. 1500
500
250
200
150
3 at 100
6 at 50
10 at 20
40 at 10
40 at 5
800
300
200
400
200
Less 10 per cent.
Please state amount forwarded, and send two addressed
envelopes, with stamps enclosed (not adhered) —one to
sendi your ticket in, and the other for result. Starnes
"’ill be accepted in payment for tickets, but one penny
stamp must be sent in addition for exchange on every
shilling worth. y
IST PLEASE NOTE !—The drawing will be under the
personal supervision of a committee of representative
commercial men of New South Wales, as a guarantee of
good faith. *
~ w ® guarantee to pay 10 per cent, of nett profits to
the Trades and Labour Councils. Read prospectus.
ADDRESS— ‘ 4 XTIQ'TOIXr,’*
C/o D. E. COLTS, 8 Mercantile Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Southern Cross.’
GENUINE PRIZE CONSULTATIONS.
Reliable Drawing and Prompt Payment.
NOW OPEN,
NEWMARKET HANDICAP (4th March),
SYDNEY GOLD CUP (3rd April).
10,000 at 5, as follow's :
First
Second ..
Third ..
S.(d.) ..
N.S. (d.)
1000
400
150
150
150
I 20 at 20
I 20 at 10
20 at 5
50 at 1
.. 400
... 200
.. 100
.. 50
Less 10 per cent.
110 EXTRA 110
In the event of not tilling, prizes will be pro rata.
An independent committee of gentlemen who
conducted the drawing on the Standish certify,
among other things, as follows
In this drawing, as conducted, collusion or
fraud of any kind was impossible, and every
ticket had an absolutely equal chance for a prize.
SPECIAL PLEDGE.
We undertake that each consultation will be
conducted by a committee of disinterested gentle-
men under “The Sportsman ” Check List System,
which renders fraud impossible. For further par-
ticulars of this, send .for prospectus, or see
Sportsman of January 4, 1893.
State clearly the amount enclosed, and send two
unattached stamps with addressed envelopes—one
for reply and the other for result. Make sure and
register your letters, and retain your receipts until
you receive a reply,
Note the Address:
“SOUTHERN CROSS,”
Care of J. S. WINTER,
P. 0., ALBURY, N.S.W.
5. EACH.
MV
5, EACH-
o
NEWMARKET HANDICAP.
March 4, 1893.
At 5 each {37“’ 20,000 *«* At 5 each
First .. .. 1500
Second .. .. 500
Third .. .. 250
S. (d.) .. .. 600
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
Other prizes see circulars.
State amount enclosed, and two stamped-addressed
envelopes with application one for receipt and the
other for result. Register your letters. Stamps will be
received if 5 per cent, exchange is added with full amount.
Address: GALA, 0.0. 11. Alexander, 07 Oxford-street,
Sydney, N.S.VV. Printed circulars free.
*** The only genuine one at 5 each in the colonits.
pONSTE^
PRIZES
CASH
CONSULTATIONS
CfIRE ” MA ioW4 LB o u F' NS - w '
NEWMARKET HANDICAP
FLEMINGTON, MAECH 4.
10,000 Subscribers at 5 each.
First ... 1000
Second ... 225
Third ... 100
; oo'M,
! M M r— 1
I .
' J -
T3-OJ
grc-g
CO tou,
o
I0 ’ 1S * 100 Consolations at 1
<slo Extra Cash Prizes.—Every 1 invested will have
a chance of 20 separate prizes.
Also on similar lines to the above
Australian Cup. Enn March 7 10,000 at 5
Champion Stakes, Enn Mar 9 10,000 at 5
Sydney CSold Cup, Enn Apl 3 10,d00at 5
State amounts enclosed, and send two stamps
with addressed envelopes, one for reply and the
other for result. Be sure to register your letters.
The CONSOLATION PETZES are a Specially
favourable new feature, and are solely originated
by me.
The CONSOLATION PEIZES largely increase
the chances and minimise risk. HEAD my
MANIFESTO sent with circulars free.
I earnestly advise you to beware of all IM«
POSTOES, who are
Copying *'Robin Hood’s" Original System.
Note address carefully—
“ EOBIN HOOD,”
C.o. Manders' Telegram Agency.
DEAN-STEEET, ALBUEY. N S W.
i#9,460 * orth for JBl.
See Amusement
Column.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
If all the “fat ” of the tour be not reserved for
the M.C.C. “cracks,” Mr. Coningham, of the kangaroo
methods, will very probably come out just about top of
the bowling list, and perhaps of the batting list also.
» * *
Take the names of the 13 cricketers picked by
Australian Eleven selection committee, and the letters
thereof w ill give George Giffen’s reply to the criticisms
upon his brother’s inclusion. Thus —Bannerman, Gregory,
Turner, Bruce, Trumble, M'Leod, Blaokham, Graham,
Trott, G. Giffen, W. Gillen, Lyons, Jarvis. “Men bar
brave brother, affirm bring ducksegg ; Callaway unjustly
left. Gammon ! No regret, nor fear, men !”
# # #
George Giffen’s last three innings : 185, 172 not
out, and 136. Yet his last innings of 136 brings his club
average down from 199 to 178 for three completed innings.
# # #
George Giffen gets 12 months’ leave from S.A.
Government without pay. On his last tour he received
full pay “owing to the advertisement to the colony.”
# * #
Charley Bannerman says that Coningham is the
best bowler in Australia.
* # #
Graham’s last innings in Sydney proved him to
be what A. Bannerman and Gregory said of him—“ a per-
fect batsman.”
* # #
If the mistakes made by fieldsmen were noted
in the scoring book it would do much to simplify the task
of ciioosing interproviucial and international cricket
teams. In American baseball, every time a man misses a
ball within bis reach counts as an error against his name.
• * #
The Australian boxing boom is dying. Like
pedestriaiiism and sculling, it has had its day—and has
done more for blackguardism than either.
« * •
Entries for the V.R.C. Autumn Meeting are
below- the average in quantity and quality. Such a
“classic ” race as the Loch Plate has only three first-class
horses on the bill—St. Hippo, Camoola, and Autonomy.
• • *
It must be fifteen years since Hanlan first
astonished the Britishers in a sculling-match on the Tyne,
and now the poor old young man is going over to pit his
ghost against Bubear. Probably the very second-rate
Bubear will “ do him bad.”
* * *
Otto Hug’s (East Melbourne) St. Bernard bitch
Empress has littered 10 pups by Lord of the Manor, a le-
centlylimported dog, bred by Jno. Speight, of Bingley,
Yorkshire. Lord of the Manor is about the biggest Sc.
Bernard ever seen in this country, and is just three years
old. He has only been shown twice (in England), and
secured prizes on both occasions. The sire was Plin, and
his grandsire Plinlimmon, who was sold to an American
fancier for 1000 guineas. The latest descendants of Plin
are fairly-built puppies, and are a distinct acquisition to
the stud dogs of Australia.
# # #
Why don’t they run Melbourne steeplechases on
the old English donkey-racing plan ? Every man to ride
another man’s nag, and the last past the post takes the
prize. It would promote straight running, anyhow.
# # *'
Bowls are not in such fig in Melbourne as they
were when Beaney and Mark Moss used to vie in the mag-
nificent trophies they got from the Denis silversmiths.
# # #
The N.S.W. Assembly wouldn’t have the
Totalisator Bill at any price, and dismissed it ignomini-
ously. The hill, by the w ay, was vigorously opposed by
Labour-member Andy Kelly, now a distinguished orna- j
ment of Tattersall’s Club.
* • *
A disqualified-for-ever galloway mare spent a
pleasant and lucrative racing season in the North, not
long hack. Which recalls the fact that a pony, tied up
for 12 months in Melbourne, raced at Brisbane during his
enforced retirement from Victoria, and starting as a
maiden finally won about a dozen races. When his time
was up he returned South. And perhaps the fastest
American trotter that ever came to Australia went North
and under a new’ name ran as a maiden and won.
* • *
There would be no reason for the Victorian
jockeys to form a union in order to recover riding fees
from “long-winded” owners were the Y.R.C. to formu
late a rule similar to No. 29 of the English Jockey Club,
viz.: “ A horse shall not start for a race unless there has
been duly paid before weighing out the jockey’s fee,
under rule 53.” The last-named rule merely refers to
amount of fees, &c.
# * *
Paddy Q., a Newcastle cricketer, bowling at a
clergyman, shivered his leg stump. “My G [’’ex-
claimed Pat, throwing up his arms with a howler’s
demonstration. “Mind your stops,” said his rev. “So
help me —— ! it nearly howled you,” said the irrepres-
sible. Which recalls how a leading English bowler was
ordered off the field for the remark, as he clean-bowled
"parson ” Studd—“ There goes his pulpit!”
• * #
Many persons in Australia to whom he was not
personally known will regret to hear that Lord Londes-
borough is very seriously ill. A more open-hearted,
generous man never lived, and his kindness to Trickett
and Laycock, when they were at low W’ater in England,
will surely never be forgotten (says our London corres-
pondent) by those who knew the circumstances of the
case. He found the whole of Laycock’s stakes when Elias
rowed and beat Boyd on the Tees ; and when Trickett was
so ill after the Hop Bitters regatta, when he rowed in a
snow-storm, Londeshorough had him and his trainer
Kelley down to stay at Lyndhurst, where he put a cottage
at their disposal, with servants, carriage and coachman.
He also found part of Trickett’s stake when the latter
rowed Kirby at South Hampton, and he took about £5O
of steamer-tickets for the race, and brought a large party
of friends from London.
# # #
Mr. “ Billy ” Auslow may now take his place
with the evergreens. At Manly, on Saturday, the old
Sydney R.C. oarsman won the Swimming Championshin
of the Village.
* * *
Mr. Clarence Hannell, of Newcastle, thinks of
taking a health-trip to Europe. Newcastle sport and
Clarence Hannell have walked hand in hand for many a
long day. Mr. Hannell was the champion amateur oars-
man of his generation, and there is a tradition in the
city of black diamonds that in a race on one occasion the
burly Clarence pulled the top-streak clean out of the
skiff he was rowing. Next!
• # •
An American joke: “’E call ’imself a prize-
fighter !” exclaims a pugilist, in accents of scorn. “ W’v
I could lick ’im with both jaws tied
• • •
Joe Thompsm, aided by a few second-class
hookies, and a section of the “professional backer”
element (the curse of the English turf), succeeded in
defeating R. 11. Pry’s at tempt to get the Jockey Club to
license bookmakers. It was thought that the amount
produced by the license might have been devoted to the
payment of a special body of police to protect the
habitiffis of Tattersall’s ring from the raids of the black-
guards who somehow contrive to obtain admittance. This
successful opposition of Joe’s will not tend to enhance
Fry’s love for him. It is thought that Joe was most ill-
advised to take so prominent a part against a movement
which had, tub rosa, the approval of the Jockey Club.
Jack Hall has been beaten in America. When
Hall was at his best in Australia, he was at the top of the
lightweights, but was too uncertain a personage to inspire
confidence. He went down on one occasion before Peter
Newton, when such men as George Hill and the late Jack
Thompson lost heavily on the deal.
# * #
L. Moore, in whose interests the match N.S.W.
Metropolitan v. Northern Districts was arranged, did not
“come off,” and was disposed of for three. The
Northerners, however, have the satisfaction of knowing
that they have given their M'Glinchy a chance of showing
Sydney his claim to rank as a batsman of the first order.
M'Glinchy, by sterling all-round play, scored 58 in the
first innings, and 58 not out in the second.
» * #
The Sydney galloway Streak of Light has been
entered extensively for the Victorian big-horse events.
On paper, it looks like money thrown away, but she must
have shown her owner something good for him to under-
take such an expense. The Oakleigh Purse, in which she
is weighted at 7st. 101 b., appears her most likely chance.
Streak of Light was an £8 pick-up at Camperdown sale
yards.
The Bulletin’s current Missing Word
competition (for particulars of which vide page 15)
closes this Saturday, 18th Feb. The result will
be announced in next issue.
The best testimonial which any firm ot
safe-makers ever received was the little note left
behind him last Monday in a Melbourne drapery
warehouse by a burglar who had failed to get into
the cash. “Safe too good. Can’t be opened.
(Signed) Expert.”
At time of going to press it had just been
“officially announced,’’ according to the cable-
gram Ananias, that George of Wales and his
Cousin May were formally engaged. Last week
it was officially cabled that they were not en-
gaged. Next week ? Also the week after
Charles, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), says that
“ n°t one out of every eight of the unemployed is
really an honest man willing to work for his own
maintenance.” If there be an Inferno, may
Charles, M.L.C., be condemned throughout
eternity to look for work which he is doomed
never to find, as the price of his unobtainable
salvation*
Ex-Justice Manning, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
objects to inmates of charitable institutions re-
ceiving a vote, but thinks that to deny a vote to
the_ charitably-aided “would disgrace many by
their birth and former position as good as our-
selves, and to whom it would be a great disgrace
to have it dragged from them at an election that
they were receiving charitable aid.” Mr. Manning
obviously sees the weakness of his own position.
Mayor Manning, the elect of South
I Sydney, got in with the joint support of the Cor-
poration labourers, the beer vote, the National
Ass., and Father Mahogany. Foxall, single-taxer
and land-agent, was only 23 behind, and he got
the block Orange vote. (The Bulletin has seen
the Orange-lodge circular). Between the two,
Labour-candidate Flowers got left. A temper-
ance advocate, he doesn’t seem to have got even
| the temperance vote. He certainly alienated that
of the publicans. The workers will have to eat
grass before their political education is fully com-
pleted.
The irony of fate. When the victorious
French entered King Behanzin’s capital the first
rush was for the palace where the famous “ golden
throne ” of Dahomey was waiting to be plundered.
The palace was undefended, and the golden throne
was captured. It proved to be a wooden chair
covered with gold varnish, and when the captors
turned it upside-down with a view to mashing it
furiously against the pavement they found under-
neath the legend, “ Made in Germany.”
Amongst the passengers for Sydney by
the Himalaya is Captain (Militia) E. W. Mar-
shall, son of the late Frank Marshall, well-known
as a dramatic critic and playwright, who was a
bosom friend and “pal” of Clement Scott, 25
or more years ago. Frank Marshall married, en
second noces, the then popular actress, Ada
Cavendish, who is not, however, the mother of the
young, rich, unmarried and good-looking globe-
trotter. .Young Marshall possesses one of the
best private menageries in the world, and his col-
lection of pheasants is unique in its completeness.
He used to walk about at Marlow (where he has a
house) followed bv a huge lion cub, to the great
perturbation of the peace-loving inhabitants of
that sleepy little Thames-side town. He is just
too late for the circus.
London edition of Detroit Free Press
now gives small prizes for smart original para-
graphs. Appended is one of the prize-takers. It
is really an excerpt from Victor Daley’s “Be-
tween Two Bottles,” written for The Bulletin
years ago. In our mind’s eye we see Jamie Nicol,
of Glaisnock-st., Cumnock, Ayr, passing off the
Song of Solomon on a music-hall manager for a
new patter turn :
A Cumnock man gives the world his scheme for be-
coming a teetotaller. He said to a friend : “ I feel a lot
better since I took those two drinks. After all, it is
absurd nonsense for a man, when he has been drinking
‘to put a plug in’ suddenly. More than that, it is
dangerous. I read in this morning’s paper of a man who
dropped dead through having—after a long bout-given
up his liquor all at once. I can tell you it is a warning to
m?. The thing should be done gradually. Say six drinks
on Monday, five on Tuesday, four on Wednesday, getting
down to one (big one) on Saturday. So beginning and
ending each week until you end it altogether.”— J.N
Glaisnock-strect, Cumnock, Ayr.
I Mayor Manning, Protectionist candidate
for South Sydney, was returned last Monday by a
majority of 23 over Freetrade Foxall, and at
latest advices all the Freetrade press was busy
explaining that this was a “ virtual ” defeat for
the Government. As for the Labour candidate
the melancholy apathy of a party without a
leader left him nowhere —he received 814
votes against no less than 2017 polled by the
same man at last general election. If the
party had possessed a capable leader the results
might have been different, for it is the first busi-
ness of a leader to get as many followers as
possible. As it is, it was the interest of no Labour
member in particular to organise the campaign,
and among the dozen or more who want the
leadership the addition of a new supporter might
only mean a new rival for the coveted billet.
Therefore, it is quite possible that some of them
would as soon see a new Labour candidate de- I
feated as successful. As a matter of fact, a lead- I
mg Trades-hall official openly worked for the I
successful candidate, }
“ Hundreds come over the ocean to vote
for the Presidency, while thousands at home
don’t bother.” —American Paper.
That solemn paper, the New Zealand
Herald (Auckland), is not too proud to steal from
The Bulletin. It is only too proud to acknow-
ledge its piracies.
Sixty-six taxpayers in Adelaide own land-
values amounting to .£2,000,337, and four absen-
tee landholders own 77 properties valued at
£922,844 unimproved value.
Some briefless barristers, sucking attor-
neys, and others are organising a “Young
Patriotic League ” in Adelaide on similar lines to
the Melbourne crowd. It will be indirectly con-
nected with the local “Ass.”
Dear Bulletin. —lt is quite true that the
body of Richard O’Hara Burke was buried at
Innaminoka (S. A.), but, together with that of his
companion Wills, it now lies under a magnificent
block of granite in Melbourne General Cemetery.
When quite a little boy, away back in 1863, I
tolled a school-bell in Beechworth, where Burke
was once a police magistrate, on the day when his
funeral was taking place in Melbourne. I also
stood beside the open grave of his fellow-explorer,
King, who was buried some years afterwards in
the Wesleyan portion of Melbourne Cemetery.
The inscription on the tree at Innaminoka was cut
by Burke himself before he lay down to die under-
neath it.—Yours, &c,, W.
“ New Australia ” item by our old friend
“John Miller,” of Brisbane Worker :
For it is not political bonds that bind men together ; it
is the common thoughts we think, and the common
tongue we speak, and the common aspirations that are
ours. And when in our Paraguayan villages our boys
and girls woo each other in our own dear mother-tongue,
sweeter to us in its harsh strength than the softer utter-
ance of Castilian speech ; and when we drink our fill
from the matchless poetry of our people, and in our old
age ponder there over the sublime thoughts which are
open to every man who speaks with English lips; and
when we sing our English songs, and work in English
ways, and have learnt to live again in the stern, strong,
English fashion, far off though we be, we shall be Aus-
tralian still—Australian of the Australians, as here we
could never be. The same stars, even, will gleam down
upon us. The very sky will be still of the Australian
blue. To and fro between us all kindly words will pass
and repass for the sake of the blood-tie between us,
blotting out all present irritations, but never blotting
out the heart-felt remembrance of those true friends who
shook our hands and blessed us in our going.
When we read this it seemed to remind us of
something, and after thinking all night it sud-
denly dawned upon us what that something was
—lt was General Scadder selling allotments in the
City of Eden. Meanwhile, and altogether apart
from the memories of Scadder, The Bulletin
wishes to point out that the above eloquence is a
hunk of black ingratitude. The Paraguayan
Government has agreed to take in the “New
Australia ” wanderers, to give them a decent-
sized principality gratis, and to be a brother to
them generally. And in return, instead of throw-
ing in their lot for better or worse with the people
who took them in, they propose to adhere through
all the ages to the country which, they say, threw
them out. The least the colonists can do is to
become Paraguayans heart and soul, to forget the
“mother-tongue” and the “ poetry,” and to give
up pondering over the sublime British thoughts
above-mentioned, and to forget that the sky is
Australian blue, and remember that it is Para-
guayan blue instead. No man, not even a “New
Australian,” can serve two masters.


o
CLOTHED WITH THE
Cellular < lolli
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab'e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
TO't, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM Sc MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING and BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Cool and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ac.
And preserves the TIIR PKTN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually t v an any other f reparation.
It is delightful! v Cooling and Refreshing if applied to
the Face or Hands after ben ; out in the Sun, Tennis-
playing, Yachtin'", &c. It removes all Heat and Irritation
I caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price i.i England, la. & 2s. (Id. Sole Makers :
i M. BEFTHAM & SON, Chemists, Cheltenham, England.
AND
c£49,460 wo,th for <£l.
See Amusement
Column.
At all suburbs you can buy 6NUN Darlings
At North Shore you can buy 6NUN Darlings'
At Balmain you can buy GNUN Darlings.
Real enjoyable smoke, G N U N Darlings
o
Mr. JAS. E. NICHOLSON,
A well-to-do Farmer of Florenccville, JV. 8.,
Canada, suffers for seven long
years with
CANCER OF THE UP-
Agonizing torture relieved, Disease Cured.
“I am 55 years of age, and until 1884 had al-
ways enjoyed good health. About that t me, a
little hard bunch, like a wart, appeared on my
lower lip. Finally, the bunch gathered, broke,
and formed a sore ; then it began to eat into the
flesh. The Cancer—for that is what the doctors
finally called it—kept getting worse and worse,
year after year. It caused me great pain and
uneasiness. During the last year, I would wake
twenty times in a night, suffering intensely
from twitching pains. It was as if my flesh
was being torn from me by pinchers, bit by bit.
v y
"A
m
At last, I began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
In the course of a week or two I noticed a
decided improvement. The twitching and the
pains were very much less, and the sore began
to look healthier. In three months my lip
began to heal, and, after using the Sarsaparilla
for six months, the last trace of the Cancer dis-
appeared, and left very little scar.”—J. E. Nich-
olson, Florenccville, N. 8., Canada.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
BRIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGOS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
rnellick Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
AH the above Books, containing upwards of 700
Designs, hound in One Volume, post free, Is. 9d,
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
H32@ Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
6 6 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & C©. 5
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
H. (*. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Tales of the convict system.
Price —One Shilling.
ASK FOB
SGHWEPPE’S
TABLE WATERS
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(BEST IN THE WORLD.)
tfar To be obtained from all Grocers and Stoke-
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
o
ò
I
SHARPS
EE_3i
THROUGHOUT
THE *
■ .V-. \
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
BROWN’S PATENT
DERMATHSSTIC CORSET.
ELEGANCE! COMFORT!! DURABILITY!!!
m
n
“ The actual wearing out
of such a Corset as this be-
comes an absolute impossi-
lity.”— Lady’s Pictorial.
“ An ingenious method of
insuring durability.” —Myra
“It seems, indeed, as
though one pair would last
a wearer the whole course of
her natural life.”— Sylvia.
SPECIAUTE.
BONES, BUSKS,&BTEELS,
PROTECTED BY LEATHER.
Principal Colours;
Black, Cardinal, Tabac,
Gold, Ruby, Terra Cotta,
Apricot, Dove, & White.
The Registered ‘ Coach Spring
Busks' with which these
Corsets are now fitted are
Warranted Unbreakable.
Every Lady should try
them. Order at once.
ó
£2T Caution.-Do not take a Substitute;
of Worthless Imitations.
Beware
NEWTON & LAMB,
MANUFACTURERS OF HIGH-CLASS ARTISTIC FURNITURE.
LIBRARY and OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. ENCLOSED
WASHSTANDS. HAT STANDS. COPYING PRESSES, &c
BPil HP Bill bn HEh Efflil K
■
sft. Oak Roll Top Desk, £lB 10s.
FALL FRONT PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAK,
WALNUT, &C. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLTING CHAIRS and STOOLS.
COMPLETE SELECTION OF OFFICE FURNITURE IN STOCK: SPECIAL
DESIGNS MADE TO ORDER.
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Plum’
o
Plum 5
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price * Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 ( Single Razor, in ivory luuidle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
eg isle red and sent Post Free to anil of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole'
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKIN, GBO George Street. SYDNEY.
IT’S GONE, ALL GONE, AND I'M GOING
TOO.
Foe many a year did the same man sweep a
pertain street-crossing in Hampstead. Through
0,11 seasons and in all weathers, there he was,
sweeping the crossing and taking such gratuities
7 were given him. Time wore away, and ho came
to be eighty years old. Ho appeared at his post
no more! Aladv district visitor looked him up at
his lodgings. What a picture of squalid destitu-
tion No” fire, no food, no friends. Wife and
family he had nono-never had. The poor old
fellow was perishing of starvation, of want. Some
money was raised for his benefit and he was re-
moved to a London hospital. Here ho lay several
weeks, sinking daily. One night he was clearly
very low. Near him stood one of the hospital
nlivsiciaiis and a nurse. Seeing him clutch
nervouslv at his pillow, the nurse, supposing the
natient desired to be raised up, put his arm
beneath him to perform that service. In doing
„ t [ le nurse’s hand came in contact with an
obiect which he withdrew. It was a dirty little
canvas bag tied with a leather string. As it was
laid aside the old man perceived what had been
done lifted his skeleton frame partially from the
bed and, trembling with excitement, said in a
shrill whisper, “Ah ! my treasure, my treasure !
It’s gone, all gone, and I’m going too !” and sank
back' 5 dead. The bag contained <£soo in notes—
the savings of his miserly life. And he, there,
dead of starvation, even more than of age. Well,
what of it ? yon say. The wretched old man was
better dead than alive. Quite so, but most
human events have a moral, a lesson, about them,
if we keep an eye out for it.
What, for example, can we learn from the
following facts ?—One night about ten years ago a
man, w I lose name we can furnish, went to bed as
usual, apparently in good health and spirits. A
few hours later he lay unconscious on the floor.
In explanation he stated that he had been seized,
suddenly, with a pain of such violence that he was
compelled to rise—a pain in the chest. After
rising he lost his senses and sank down on the
spot°where he had stood. His wife, aroused by
the noise, struck a light and saw her husband in
that situation. She afterwards declared he had
gone black in the face, and that his eyes looked as
if they were starting out of his head.
Restoratives wore applied which brought him
to, but he was not as before. So quickly and un-
expectedly do we cross the boundary line between
two opposite bodily conditions. It is like
stepping from the broad blaze of day into a damp
cavern packed with darkness. He felt weak and
sick, with a strange “all-gone” sensation through-
out ’his whole system. His mouth tasted badly,
and was filled with a slimy sort of phlegm, his
head ached, lie was unable to draw a deep breath,
lie walked with difficulty, and went about his
business like a man who is haunted by a para-
lysing dream.
Perplexed and alarmed he consulted physicians,
who prescribed for him, without, however, pro-
ducing any noticeable improvement. The strong,
clear-headed man of previous years was gone—
changed as by the wand of a vicious magician into
the feeble being he now was. Even with this
dismal prospect before him our friend travelled
not on level ground ; his path led downward ; he
grew worse. In December, 1888, he had a dis-
tinct and bad attack, gave up business, and went
to bed. There he remained for a weary painful
month—Unity days, as long as thirty years of
power and occupation. The doctor said there was
something wrong with the stomach and bowels.
After ho once more rose from his bed he still
suffered dreadful pain and could rest neither day
or night. Indeed, some nights he never slept a
moment. So weak had he become that when he
attempted a short walk he was obliged to
don the effort, return and go to bed.
His own words are these: —“To give you an
idea how reduced I had become I may mention
that I lost over three stone weight and was wast-
ing away, I kept on like this until January,
1891, when Mr. Everson, of Occold, told me of a
medicine called Mother Seigel’s Syrup and the
good it had done. I tried it and in three days I
felt bettor. Cheered and encouraged by this I
continued to use it, with the result that I wholly
recovered from my mysterious malady. lam now
strong and hearty, and business is again a
pleasure. The Syrup did me more good in a few
weeks than all my ten years doctoring put to-
gether.” (Signed) Albert Thorndyke, Proprietor
of the “Grapes Inn,” Church Street, Eve,
Suffolk. May Ist, 1891.
What do we learn from this? We learn that
while a miserly fool like our crossing-sweeper may
starve for money, a wise man with more reverence
for his bodily temple, seeks and finds a remedy
for a tendency to starvation, induced by disease^ —
that the disease was indigestion and dyspepsia,
and the remedy Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
Special Biographies.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
There’s some sense in Hazei.l’s Annual. I have
just looked up Dibbs and Parkes. How nicely
the compiler has struck on the salient points of
the lives of these great men !
I don’t care much about politics, but I wish to
balance the pair and find which is the more
remarkable. Judging by points, and the maximum
being 100, I refer to my Hazkll and give marks
as follows:
“George Dibbs has served twelve mouths in prison.”
(N.B.—Tub Bulletin has also been there.)—Marks, 20.^
“ He received the honour of knighthood in ’92.”
Deduct those 20 marks.
“ He is an eminently handsome man.”—Marks, 50.
“ G.R.D. teas a Republican.”—Marks, 50.
“ G.R.D. is now not a Republican.” —Minus, 100.
Result, nil.
Now for Parkes.
“Parkes is the son of an agricultural labourer.” —
Nothing for that: not his fault.
“ He has been distinguished for his successful advocacy
of Freetrade.”—Nix for that: not true.
“ He is one of the remarkable men who have risen to
political eminence through journalism.” (What does
Milton say of Satan ? “By merit raised to that had emi-
nence.”)—Give him credit for 50 marks.
“ His autobiography ” —Forfeit his good-conduct
badges.
But the last item, taken with the first sentence, is
good.
(а) “Was born in 1815.”
(б) “A son was born to him in September - , ’92.’*
Subtraction sum—92 minus 15, equal to 77.
Judging the pair as I would sheep, or horses, or
game fowls, or pointers at a show, I should give
them, each of them, a leather medal with nicks,
as first-class shufflers.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
— t
It is estimated by a labour authority tha
21,000 persons are now out of employment in
Sydney.
Official minute concerning the charitable
institutions of N.S.W. ; “ There is hardly enough
money for food this year.” And 50 sick are
lying on the ward floors in Liverpool Poor
Asylum.
Mr. Henrici, who died a few weeks ago*
aged 88, was founder of the town of Economy)
Pennsylvania. There are 500 inhabitants, aP
celibates. Their property is in common, and re'
ported as high as £2, 000,000 sterling.
When the s.s. Ruahine’s freezing-chambe 1 ’
was opened at Townsville, the apparently dead
body of a fine collie dog was found lying against
the door, at which, in life, it had vainly
scratched to attract attention. It was dragged
out .and thrown on the wharf, where, in the
tropical heat, it soon thawed, and, to everyone’s
astonishment, after being in the sun for about an
hour the dog feebly raised its head and began to
moan. Restoratives were applied, but poor Tyke
died of exhaustion a few hours afterwards. The
dog belonged to Brisbane and had accidentally
been shut in.
o


MEDICAL.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S medical.
CELEBRATED BLOOD and NERVE REMEDIES.
Vitality Pin a
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted),
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
WENTE^
4
decernee
A
A
iipv
S*i
GOI,D MED AG.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—AWARDED—
GOLD MED /K T. f
SYDNEY and PARIS,
S - CURED 100,000.
rrrrr r
r
r/_ U n Dupianrorii Cr*r> X_\t <»S
. H.P. Rasmussen Esq
m;/o &
OTA NIST
o«
2
oAsaTOKEN ofCRATITUDEc
FromNlNEofhis PATIENTS 171 It §
for Having Restored Then
wm
u
9)
SPa?W*
l^vrsEP.^
'k*=:
LOCK 3PILX.S
(REGISTERED)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials.
ff What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain T'
Indisputable Evidence.
'V
GOLD MKUAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
o ò
Declaration.
IIHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL f ‘ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Balv, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmusseu.—l have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderfid Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. 1 shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial,—
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derfid skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all,—Yours gratefully, R.
Albuby, 61 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.—A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st,, Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
.A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3a. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., Os. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Fills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
Mid Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Pills
CUKES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CLUES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6; Special Powerful Course, 43/6,
remedies sent duty free.
HERR RASSMESSEX,
J he Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alkaline
Remedies. Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
1 ana and Sydney ; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris :
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer & Proprietor
OF TUB CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
Which have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
Hex'i* iriassmussezi’s Diploma,
isnsi
nrre
off-ca:?:
p!
%
H afiS& V v INDUSTRJELS etEXPOSANTS '
mteiiii saliMjiULE wm ®mi muli Mg
Q)eceuul G-i,
m
\rjf/7 I AVEC LE TITRE DE
&m/ / yjl''l 7> Coitti^dcmX'^
mvmmvt.M
Si
e&JWcanioue
A
• • /
1
Wnoi
LAUyfiriIEPVBLIOVE PROTEGE LE TRAVAIL
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
he Genuine,
Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per’
forming' many great cures during the last few years as his
numerous testimonials will prove,”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
Drated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Stab.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
Ir Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales
Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown Courier (Q t ).
“It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill ho possesses as a Herba-
list, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to be well
established.”— S. A. Register, Adelaide.
‘ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease,” —Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Xeßtimoixiala,
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq„
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rass-
mussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your Adfaline Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured byfheir qse.—Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and mou staches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff'Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s.
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
■ ■■
Alfaline Lock Fills
CUKES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
All PACKETS SENT INOItSEKVEI*.
“Tli.© Natural Doctor.”
A. valuable Herbal Work, by Herr Rassmussen, which contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Trice, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register all letters containing money
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved,
tw
Beware of Imitations !
HERR
RASSMUSSEN'S GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS FOLLOWS:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide,
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


W'f
The Hair, when not properly cared for,
loses its lustre, becomes crisp, harsh, and
dry, and falls out freely at every combing.
To prevent this, the best and most popular
dressing in the market is
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
j
It removes dandruff, heals
troublesome humors of the
scalp, restores faded and gray
hair to its original color, and
imparts to it a silky textura
and an agreeable fragrance.
By using this preparation, the
poorest head of hair soon be-
comes
Luxuriant and Beautiful.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a toilet article much iu
favor with both ladies and gentlemen, and
the latter find it of the greatest service in
restoring and preserving the youthful ap-
pearance of the beard and moustache.
Prepared by Hr* J. C, Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,
U. S. A. Sold by Druggists aud Perfumers.
THIS BE TRUE?
A
8
K,
F-i
0]
B
A l
N
D 1
Nj
o
k
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss,Borax, Gum, "Wax. &c.
PREVENTS : The Iron from scorching or sticking.
PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVESTime, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Agents: T. H . MATE & Co., Ld., ALBUR V:
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
A pare and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-parasitic and slightly alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth where decay originates, removes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath ; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2s. 9 d.per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes red or grey hah’ a permanent Brown or
Black, 4s. Ask any dealer in perfumery for
Rowlands’ articles,of 20,Hatton Garden,London.
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIRah°SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
■ eruptions and diseases of the skin.
J Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Parclay & Co., New York.
j
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
, enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by thgir general action please all who
me them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
sion. The smallest and easiest to take, . Forty in a phial.
k
J{ Perfect Food
HORLICK’S
MALTED
j
kj
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
MILK.
For INFANTS.
for the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and mailed barley.
| MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
, AuL no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
, and readily prepared for instant use
, by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
-1“1 fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
■l*l valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
rn England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.O.
£49,460 worbh for «£l,
See Amnsetpenb
Column.
What is a home without GNUN Darlings ?
In your buggy, smoke GNUN Darlings.
Sportsmen all smoke GNUN Darlings.
At Parramatta you can buy GNUN Darlings
On the block, smoke 6NUN Darlings.
At Redtern you can buy G N U N Darlings.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Taken at regular intervals in cases
dyspepsia affords permanent relief,
and persistent.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
of chronic
Is prompt
Widow Welch’s Pills for Female Complaints-
Tl/TRS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
be careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receipe. The genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAPER, and signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smithers, and the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“ W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,"
formerly of 07, Sr. Paulis, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by
most chemists.
Why Suffer One Moment
From Torturing Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
rest and sleep, speedily heals the CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifier, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cure every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” €4 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustra-
tions, and 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Cuticura Soap, 25c.:
Cuticura Resolvent, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U.S. A .
r
1
ca
r
&
m
■f
Bad Complexions,
pimples, blackheads, fed, rough, and
oily skin and hands are prevented and
cured by that greatest of all Skin
Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other
skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of
toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive of inflammation
and clogging of the pores , the cause of most complexional disfigurations , Price, 25c.
LEA & PERRINS]
■ SAUCE.*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
j
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse Blackwell, London, d'C.,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents : Messes. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively the Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS “DARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
m
AFTER UcJB.
positively forces
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
m.
AFTER USE.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and Moustachios it has never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
oooooo
Physicians ami Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of KTew South Wales.
——
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c,, BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mr*. KILMIISTSTEiri .... Proprietress.
"The Greatest of Australia’s Dead."
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Non onmiu mortar, multaque pars mei
Vitablt Libitinam
Horace Odes, Bk. HI., 30.
There is a life that buds but after death,
Then quickens, careless of the idle tomb
Where sycophants lie gathered in the gloom
With those poor gains their treason purchaseth ;
So when a hero dies, 10, each one saith :
“This narrow space is neither time nor room
For such a soul to reach its fullest bloom.
His life has not gone out with mortal breath.”
Then, look not back, nor idly shed a tear
For him who’s gone, nor cypress glean, nor rue,
But strive we stalwart with him, onward, who
Won wreaths that fade not and can never sere,
That, should the nation call, “ Are any true ?”
Again; that we may say “Yes ! some are here.”
Lane Cove.
A. C. FONTAINE.
From report of the proceedings at the
Richmond (N.S.W.) Borough Council From
Henry B , drawing attention to the condition
of Mr. W. J. Kelly’s pig-sty, near his garden.
Aid. Kelly admitted that the place was not as
clean as he would like, but it was only since the
recent rains. Anyhow, he could tell Mr. B—■—
that it didn’t stink any worse than his breath.’’
This Kelly man is on the high road to the N.S.W,
Legislature.
“ Tommy Walker,” the best known of the
few aboriginals who now pervade Adelaide,
astonished a gaping crowd the other day by com-
plaining thus : “ It’s a strange thing that a (Aus-
tralian adjective) gentleman can’t walk down the
street without being followed by a lot of damned
larrikins.” It was Tommy Walker when
asked by Stock, M.P., how he came to be travel-
ling in a first-class railway carriage, answered:
“Just the same as a member of Parliament:
got a free pass.”
What a State Church can lead to was
shown in the case of Read v. the Bishop of
Lincoln, which was decided by the Privy Council,
in 1892. It was decided that although mixing
wine with water during the Communion service is
an offence against the law, and savours of Popery,
yet using a cup containing wine and water which
had been mixed before the service is quite legal
and sound Protestantism; and, further, that
lighting candles on the altar during a day-light
service is an abomination which must be stopped,
but if the candles are lighted before the service
begins, everything is 0.K., and the congregation
has no right to howl. It cost about <£3ooo to
settle these important matters, and the Church
feels much better now.
The N.S.W. country editor goes for his
loathsome contemporary once more :
What old journalistic fornicator is it that stole a man’s
wife 16 years ago and passed her off as his own? What
snuffle-busting old cur is it that, while living as a double-
edged adulterer and bristle-haired fornicator, became a
churchwarden, and palmed another man’s wife on to the
toffs’ wives as bis own church-blessed lovey-dovey, and
then, when the parson-bowled them out as a broomstick
family, persuaded the poor wretch of a woman to commit
bigamy by marrying him? Who is it; can anyone tell?
He, the old dog, he is a nice cup of tea to talk about
people. The drunken old gutter-snipe, the cowardly old
skunk ;he is not game to fight like a man—he never was
half a man. He has always been a pretendedly sancti-
monious old hypocrite, who has made his living by journa-
listic prostitution. Pooh ! get out, you filthy old dog,
you stink in the nostrils of decency !
This is equal to the very best American, and re-
minds one of Parliament.
The city of Ban Salvador (Central America)
is reported to have had two or three earthquakes
recently. San Salvador is a curious and unsettled
city. It has been destroyed three times, and
once it was visited by 80 earthquakes in 60
minutes. On that occasion a monument which
stands in the principal square was shifted 30 yards
and left standing. The ground on which San
Salvador stands is hollow—it is planted on the
thin roof of a series of stupendous caverns, and if
the roof ever goes the city will never stop falling
till it reaches Tophet. About a year ago a man
was digging a well there, and he went through
the thin crust and vanished. He has never been
heard of since. Whether he fell 1000 feet or 1000
miles is a matter of conjecture. Yet a careless,
joyous race lives and dances and makes love and
takes its best girl out at night on the sheet of
tissue-paper which hangs over the great vacancy,
and no one seems to worry in the least about the
void below.
Old Sproule lived by himself ou a selection
40 miles from Bowen, N.Q. The other day, for
the first time in over 20 years, he put up at a pub,
in town for the night, and being of temperate
habits went to bed at his usual time—dark,
About nine o’clock the publican’s dogs started a
row in front of the “ loose boxes,” as the detached
bedrooms are called, and half awoke the old man,
who ran into the main street shouting, “ Sool him,
Snap! Sool him, boy !” under the impression
that he was at home, and that dingoes were at his
fowls again. A yell of laughter from the hotel
verandah and half-a-dozen female shrieks having
thoroughly awakened him, he grasped the situa-
tion firmly with both feet, and made straight for
the bush. Next afternoon a stockman who had
met him 35 miles out, attired simply in a Orimean-
shirt, left word that Sproule’s horse and swag
were to be sent to Burke’s Crossing by first team.
Visions of arrest for indecent behaviour troubled
the old man for some time, and he had a couple of
blacks camped at the “turn off” for weeks so
that he might be duly apprised on the approach of
a trooper.


All civilised races smoke G N U N Darlings.
At Manly you can buy GNUN Darlings.
At Coogee you can buy G N U N Darlings.
At Waverley you can buy G N TJ N Darlings.
MISSING WORD
Competition.
CONDUCTED on the same lines as those so successfully
. carried on in England and America, with the excep-
tion that a Commission of One Penny will be deducted
from each answer sent in, and which amount will be
handed to the Treasurer of the Queensland Flood Belief
Fund, less expenses.
Send X/-, or 13d. in stamps, register your letter with the
missing word contained in it, your name and address,
and POST IT before 9th MARCH, 1893, to
The “ KI-TA" and “TI-TA” INST. BOX,
Park Strkrt Post Office, SYDNEY.
The missing word has been placed in a sealed envelope,
and entrusted to the care of O. E. R. Jones, Esq., the
well-known solicitor, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and the
day after the competition closes, the packet will be opened
In his presence and a few members of Parliament, by Mr.
J, Macnamarra, the discoverer of “Ti-Ta.” The sentence:
It it reported that the Earl of Jersey
would have remained in Sydney if the
Premier had not started
tW” All you have to do is to find the missing word, pur-
posely left out at the finish of above sentence.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY
40 Miles from Sydney.
The First Section Comprising tooo Acres,
subdivided into from
6 TO 30 ACRES HORTICULTURAL BLOCKS,
is now ready for Sale.
Five Years’ Terms. Torrens Titer.
Every Acre has a water right attached under the
provisions of the Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
£7 Per Acre Deposit.
Apply to the Manager, Mulgoa; or the Sydney Agents,
_ _ 13g PITT STREET.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY.
THE TOWNSHIP.
Every Lot can now be Supplied with Water.
£35 PER EOT £35
with water rights attached under the provisions of the
Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
Two Years' Terms. Torrens Title
A Visit to the Irrigation Colony may be made in
ONE DAY.
Sydney Agents; HARDIE and GORMAN,
133 PITT STREET.
CASCARA-HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR'S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Kestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
CAPSULES
Full directions.
All Chemists.
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsules.
Business Announcement.
JOHN LAWLER A SONS,
608 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
3- COTTAGE FURNISHED for
.£l9 19a. 6d.
4- HOUSE FURNISHED for £32
17s.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£5O
10-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO
DEPARTMENTS:
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY,
„ . BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
and IRONMONGERY,
GLASSWARE and CHINA,
ELECTRO PLATED GOODS,
SPECIAL LINES IN EVERY
DEPARTMENT.
Suites in all colors and materials. Prices begin at
£7 10s.
We upholster our own Suites, and can give the
best value.
Early English Suites of 9 Articles, in Tapestry
and Plush, £lO 10s.
Suites are quite a speciality with us. We generally
have between 10 and 20 to select from, uphol-
stered in all the pretty patterns and styles
imaginable.
Our Occasional Suites are exceedingly pretty, and
of good value; they have a ready sale, and our
stock is always nice and fresh.
We have exceptionally good value in Walnut
In laid Cabinets and Sideboards and Occasional
tables; also, Bedroom Furniture.
In fact, we are enabled to do the best for our cus-
tomers throughout, simply because we are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues
(Free by Post.)
Communicate freely, you will be promptly
answered.
JOHN LAWLER A SONS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Land Building Co., Limited.
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
As an illustration For a Block, 5 acres, at
£lO per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
£ll7s. 6d., £2 10s., £3155., £s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the £5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate ; or,
WATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS !
Bought and Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW \
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
Mi■
A iftfA RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC will positively re-
jrXm move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter how
long standing), acne (so prevalent in moist clima,tes),
salt rheum, oily ness, excessive redness, etc., soon dis-
appear after its use. This SKIN TONIC is a healing
remedy. Every bottle is guaranteed to be as represented.
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan,
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientific
and healthy ; it opens the pores of the skin, so that all
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving the net-
work of the skin clean, fresh and youthful ; hardens
flabby skin—in fac.t, gives a new appearance. ANNA
RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively than
all other skin preparations combined. SKIN TONIC is
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Every
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands of
letters are coining in, and arc loud in their praises of this
SKIN TONIC; old cases of acne, ecz.ma, coarseness of
skin, etc., are being specially cured when othjfer remedies
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. OcL;
three bottles together (usually required), £ll2s. 6d. All
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamped
envelope. Consultation at office free. Valuable new
"Book of Beauty" post free on receipt of 4d. stamps.
Call or address the celebrated American Complexion
Specialist,
RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia:
IIW SI rami, Sydney,
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, ato.
Amusements.
A P S R A HOUSE,
w King and York Streets.
Soiiß Lessee and Manager ... Me. Harry Rickards.
CONTINUED SUCCESS,
But Positively the LAST WEEK of
| Mr. HiltKV It lOKAIt P 8 |
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
Positively Biosing Friday Next, Feb. 17th.
MILLION PRICES : 25., Is., and SIXPENCE.
Business Manager, JOHN 0. LEETE.
Tivoli theatre
(Late the GARRICK) Castlereagh Street.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Grand Opening Night SATURDAY Next, Feb. 18th.
45
BRILLIANT ARTISTS
4:5
New Sliding Roof, Fairy Fountain, New Fantastic Ballet,
The Mashers up to Data. Million Prices, Dress Circle and
Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
Sims and Pettitt’s Famous Play,
“LONDON DAY BY DAY.”
(By arrangement with Mr. Bland Holt.)
PRICES as USUAL, BOX PL AIS at THEATRE.
iTIHE LYCEUM THEATRE
* (Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD, and BOY BLUE.
MONDAY, February 20-‘‘MISS ESMERALDA.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman
CRITERION THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucioault.
EVERY EVENING ! EVERY EVENING !
A, W. Pinero’s Latest and Greatest London Success,
“ THE TIMES."
Interpreted by the Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company,
and Miss MAGGIE MOORE (specially engaged).
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
rTIHEATRE ROYAL.
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, Amory Sullivan.
EVERY EVENING (at 8 o’clock) EVERY EVENING
Instantaneous Success of the Ladies Drama !
“THE WORLD AGAINST HER.’’
Received Nightly by Crowded and most Critical Audiences
with the utmost Enthusiasm.
Calls and Recalls after Each Aot.
Undoubted Triumph of
Messrs. HOWE and BAKER’S
Most Powerful Combination of
E3=F“ Dramatic Artistes Ever Seen in Sydney.
Including Mrs. MOLYNEUX
(Late of Messrs. Brough and Boucicault’s Co.),
Miss EDITH BLANDE, and Miss FLORA ANSTEAD
(Late of the Bland Holt Company).
Business Manager .. Mr. Christie Simonsens.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE : Hon. B. B, Moreton, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq,,
Achkson Ovkrend, Esq., O.E.
SOLICITOR : Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. 1. —Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000;
rental value, .£1,500.
.Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of .£lO,OOO
1 of .£5,000
4 of .£2,500
5 of <£l,ooo
osy jo oox
ooiy jo 02
0223" JO OX
Jo 2
100 of .£25
125 of .£2O
1.000 of .£lO
1.000 of £5
Total, .£105,000, no deduction of anv kind,
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & GO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
o EVER? SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49*460 worth*
j
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Aecordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. Od., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 25s
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss’
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 1 Os., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 655., 755., 955., and £7 10s
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets"
£2 ™, 8 ;. £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s!
J.ERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in live minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD-immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. .1. ALBERT & SON
ng-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
Jr REE.
E
ASTERN ART EMPORIUM.
353 GEORGE STREET,
almost opposite the General Post Office.
ARCHIBALD MTNTVRR
begs to inform the Public that having bought the
STOdKdV-TRADE it GOODWILL
of the late
C. T. J, BROWNE, of 17 HUNTER STREET,
he has
Moved into more Commodious Promises,
at the above address,
Where he has on view a Magnificent Display of Eastern
Art Productions and Fine art English Wares.
Inspection Kindly Invited ,
8
TICK
Medical.
PIN HERE;
This is a business announcement, and that
just the reason why you should read it rkrht
through. One of the greatest
SECRETS OF THE DAY
is to successfully combat diseases and attain
gSest COmf ° rUble old Strategy ia \l
ART OF WAR.
By the aid of strategy you can get the enemy into
a fog and lose him there. Of course it is not
sidered strategy to find him again. But n
matter. A vegetarian tract recently
imparts the cheerful intelligence that more peoS
are killed or disabled by 1
EXCESSIVE EATING
than by drink. This is, doubtless, true. Taka
rhe tramp for instance, who lives principally
suction, and see how hardy he is. His excuse W
drinking is that it aids digestion. You can 111
from eating pork, he tells you, but not
DRINKING BEER.
About the only thing you can drink that L
really injurious to health is water. When von
move into a strange city you are generally advised
to look out for the water.” The best way to
carry this instruction into execution is to inouira
for whisky at the threepenny bars.
NO SANE MAN.
however, will think of drinking St. Jacobs Oil
because it is not a beverage for internal use. But
if he is troubled with neuralgia or rheumatism or
is the.possessor of ’
AN ACHING TOOTH,
a cold on the chest, or a sprained foot, reason will
dictate to him that an external remedy such as St
Jacobs Oil, which never fails to effect a speedv
and permanent cure, is worth ' ■
A MILLION OF MONEY.
No other specific ever placed in the trade has
met with such unprecedented success, a fact which
is _ verified by the numberless testimonials re-
ceived proclaiming its sterling value. It is bevond
doubt the
BEST DOMESTIC REMEDY
that can be kept in the house, whether the home
be that of a merchant prince or the humble son of
toil.
WHAT IS
A WEEK BACK
WHY, LAST SATURDAY!
A Woman’s Back.
It is the mainspring of her life.
What can she do, where can she go, so long as
that deadly backache saps every particle of hei
strength and ambition '!
She cannot walk, she cannot stand ; her house-
work is a burden ; the hours behind the counter o r
in the factory are crushing ; she is miserable.
The cause is some uterine derangement, or
other phase of debility.
The backache is the sure symptom.
VIM, the great Phosphated Elixir, is the Sure
Cure for cases of this kind. VIM will correct
and cure; VIM will invigorate and build up;
VIM is a Nervine that soothes and strengthens.
If your druggist does not stock VIM, send
direct to the VIM Laboratories, Golden Key
Pharmacy, 229 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
VIM, VIGOR, VITALITY are Synonymous
Terms.
T \/| a Phosphated Elixir. The most
T 9 powerful remedy for DEBILITY,
Pulmonary and Wasting Diseases, from whatever
cause arising. As a bracing and invigorating
1 onic for the human race, this medicine reaches
a degree of perfection attained by no other com-
pound yet discovered. It affords relief and per-
manently cures all who suffer from wasting and
withering of the Nervous and Muscular Tissues,
Kidney and Bladder Diseases and Liver Com-
plaint. It never fails to regenerate the most
important elements of the human frame. Prompt
and certain relief will be obtained in all cases of
Kidney and Liver Disorder, Rheumatism and
Urinary deposits, to be followed by Permanent
Cure.
Vim, the Vigoriser.
Of all Chemists in Australasia, and of the
Manufacturer,
H. WESTALL GUEST,
At Vim Laboratories, Golden Key Pharmacy
220 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE. _____
GOLD ! GOLD * GOLD I Western Australian
Goldfields afford to Investors and others a certain
opportunity of recouping all recent losses. Information
can be obtained by apply ing to THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
MINING SYNDICATE, Salisbury Buildings, Bourke
Street West. MELBOUNRE.
Government Not Lees.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 13, 1893.
r I VENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22,
Completion of Bridge, Wilson’s Creek, road Lis-
more to Brunswick
Manufacture, within the colony, Supply, &c., of
Driving Gear, &0., Ocean-street tramway
Bridge over Railway Line at Lithgow
Concrete Arcli Culvert, over Black Creek, road
Cobargo to Bermagui
Construction of Service Reservoir and Dam,
Nowra Water Supply
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8.
Bridge, Wallaga Lake, road Bermagui to Tilba
Tilba
Erection of Police Buildings, Fernmount
Bridge, Moruya River, at Kiora
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
VVagga Wagga
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal*
lerawang, at Coerwull,
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
<£4-9,4-60 worth for JJ“I,
See Amusement
Column.
Business oracle: “ Property has depreci-
ated so enormously, sir, that the richer a man was
two or three years ago the poorer he is now.”
Somebody says of Labouchere that he has
such a hatred of humbug that he would kick him-
self if he were able to reach the right spot with
his boot.
The Bulletin’s current Missing Word
competition (for particulars of which vide page 15)
closes this Saturday, 18th Feb. The result will
be announced in next issue.
Judge Boucaut (S.A.), at present in Eng-
land, is most ec momical. In a recent S.A.
Advertiser article he says that a London waiter
absolutely refused—monstrous !—to accept the
penny tip the Judge offered him !
The other day in Melbourne a young man
went to the police station and asked the help
of the police to find out his name. He had entirely
forgotten it, also where he lived and who he was.
The authorities could not help him, and the
doctors certified him sane and sober. He is in
the gaol hospital endeavouring to arrive at a solu-
tion of his identity.
We were in a Sydney mercer’s shop one
day last week when a Chinaman called in. He
carried a doubtful-looking singlet in his yellow
hand, and explained that he had bought it there a
few days previously and now wanted to change it
because it was “too tightee.” The transaction,
as it happened, didn’t come off, but The Bulletin
would be glad to know the address of any mercer
who habitually changes underclothing for China-
men in order that it may warn the public to keep
clear of him.
Spagnoletti; “ One of your galls, travelling
in England, is afforded by the trespass notices,
but a beautiful English feeling comes o’er you,
like a myriad-minded vision of imagination, when
you travel by the Y.R.C. racecourse, Flemington,
and see the abundant notices to trespassers.
What is this but Byron Moore’s try-on, paving
the way to a charge for admission ? Good old
Fitz Gibbon has always been the best friend to the
people, resisting the encroachments on reserves,
parks, and gardens.”
A tired-looking woman, runs the story,
managed to obtain a private interview with a
London sassiety man, and promptly began to
worry him for the loan of a “fiver.” The male
personage, however, was adamant, and after
grovelling on her knees in vain for a considerable
period, the weary fragment retired to the gentle-
man’s sofa with the avowed intention of taking
poison from a small black bottle. “ I will die
here,"’ she murmured, as she slowly removed the
cork. The sassiety man cashed up the necessary
sum, and his melancholy visitor went silently
away to the capitalist next door. It is supposed
that they must be making at least .£3OOO a year
by threatening to leave her corpse in the mansions
of the rich. Also there is & unanimity of opinion
that the “ fragment’s ” fee for departing in a live
state is extremely moderate.
KEEP YOUR SYSTEM CLEAN,
and diseases of the kidneys and liver will be
obviated. Wolfe’s Schnapps is a useful purgative,
and has a pleasant flavour. Buy whole bottles.


How can they make them ? Tour G- N U N ’
Darlings, Is.
"They have all got ’em. What ?
Darlings,
GN UN
Dibbs cables ; “ Send me box of GNUN
Darlings, ’
Melbourne paper : “ Many Melbourne
men who were wealthy three years ago now go
bootless. ’’ Worse than that —many have not been
able even to keep their feet.
I lAt Woolloomooloo you can buy GN'UN
Darlings.
j
ĵ
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
U*iS
mm.
m
am
m
m
m
m
////-!
7
m
m
m
m
m
c
m.
CncO^
ss~
m?
■m
fifi'
%
/////
“Bully" Hayes, the Pirate of the Pacific.
A CHAPTER IN SOUTH SEA HISTORY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
No. 11.
Before detailing my own first experiences
of the 18-stone pirate I must mention some other
incidents in his career which will give a fair
illustration of the notoriety he had acquired and of
his keen sense of humour. Long before these two
gentlemen (Bully Hayes and Ben Peese) had com-
menced to exploit the Ellice, Gilbert, Kingsmill,
Marshall and Caroline Groups, Bully, then owner
of a small, fast-sailing schooner, had made unto
himself a name—particularly as a connoisseur of
Island beauty—among the Marquesas, Society,
Hervey and Paumotu Groups, from Nuka-hiva to
Rapa-nui (Easter Island), that ethnographical
mystery of the Southern Seas, whose gentle and
amiable people, 27 years ago, met with so dreadful
a fate at the murderous hands of the Peruvian
slavers.
• * *
Soon after the slavers had gone a story
was current in Eastern Polynesia that Bully had
landed armed boats’ crews at Aana, in the
Paumotu Archipelago, and seized a number of
girls whom he sold to Chilian and Peruvian
buyers. But, as a matter of fact, Hayes never
sold a native girl,.though he was always willing to
barter for a new charmer any member of his harem
who had palled upon his fastidious tastes. And
if the other man in these little matters evinced the
slightest want of trade-reciprocity, he generally
regretted it, for he would lose the household
chattel and get nothing for her, save, perhaps, a
bad pounding and many lumps and excoriations,
or, perhaps, a sarcastic note informing him that
the writer could not afford to waste time haggling
over so trifling a matter as the price of a native
Venus,
* * *
While two of the fleet of Peruvian slavers
appeared among the Elliee Group, the other
two remained to “ work ” Easter Island, the
which they did successfully, carrying away
all the able-bodied men and comely women
they could seize (300), to die miserably
in the guano-pits of the Chincha Islands.
The vessels which “ worked ” the Ellice Group
were a barque and a brig. The brig was
commanded by a big Irishman, and simply
because he was a big man and spoke in English to
the natives it was reported in the Hawaiian mis-
sionary press that the slaver captain was Bully.
The natives of Nukulaelae, an island which
suffered severely from the slavers’ visit, always
maintained for long afterward that it was Hayes,
whom they had never actually seen, becaus'e the
iki vaka (captain) was a tall, bearded man who
kept knocking his sailors down every minute if
they were not quick in their movements; and
didnt “make fast” ( i.c ., iron) any of the young
women.
* * #
But at the time the two Peruvians were
cruising through the Bllices, Bully was exploiting
the Paumotu Archipelago and arousing the anger
of the great Tahitian firm—the Maison Brander—
by his irregular business methods. For instance, he
would “buy” pearl-shell from their traders and
kick them over the side if they had the audacity to
ask for payment. In accordance with his custom,
Bully, on this cruise, devoted a good deal of time
to studying the soft-eyed Pauraotuan vahine; and
after filling his schooner with a fair amount of
plunder he did take away some ten or fourteen
young Paumotu women—not to Chili or Peru, but
merely on an extended and indefinite pleasure
trip. Most of these young ladies were desirous of
getting to Tahiti, where they believed their
charms would be better appreciated than in their
own island homes. In his characteristic way II
capitano [/(ilunluoino offered them free passages.
Passing through the Society Group and not enter-
ing Papeite Harbour (possibly on account of his
strained relations with the house of Brander and
the French naval authorities) he made his way to
the Marquesas. Here some four or five of his
lady passengers elected to remain with newly-
found lovers, either white or native ; and Bully
always blessed the union of two happy hearts by
recording the affair in his humorously-kept log
and giving a spree. If the bridegroom was a
white man, Bully would also “ buy ” his oil,
fungus and cotton, make him very drunk, place
his laughing and blushing bride in his arms, and
then, in his absent-minded way, see him over the
side into his boat and sail away without paying.
Bully used to say that his defective memory was
the cause of all the malignant slanders set afloat
about him. And, as regarded women, he used to
remark that he also suffered from the curious
complaint of “moral astigmatism.” The rest of
the girls reached home somehow, after undergoing
a pleasant and varied experience, each being the
happy possessor of one of his peculiar and char-
acteristically-written testimonials.
* # #
It was Bully’s humour to give these
precious documents to the time-expired members
of his harem, in the same manner as an English
mistress would give a certificate of character and
efficiency to a departing maid. Some of these
papers are still extant in Tahiti and Mangareva.
Many years ago when buying turtle at the little
island of Rurutu, I saw one pasted on a bread-
fruit post in a native house. In the Western
Carolines and the Pelew Group, when whale ships
were plentiful and prosperous, the native girls
preserved these “characters” by gumming the
paper (often upside-down) on a piece of pandanus
leaf bordered with devices in bead-work. When
a fresh ship arrived, the damsels would bind these
around their pretty little foreheads after the
manner of phylacteries—and they were always read
with deep interest by the blubber-hunting skippers
and mates and the after-guard generally. Bully’s
“characters ” ran somewhat in this wise :
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
I, William H. Hayes, hereby certify that the bearer of
this, Marutahina, of Vahitahi, was with me for four or
five months, and I can confidently say that I can recom-
mend her to anyone in need of an active young wife,
general help, or to do chores. She is a very good girl
and the sole support of her mother—an old thief with a
tattooed back who lives on Reka Reka.
• * *
About 1871, while in the service of the
North Pacific Transportation Co. of San Fran-
cisco, I heard and read a good deal of Bully’s
doings. The Daily Alta used to speak of him as
a venturesome and high-spirited American gentle-
man upholding the honour of his flag in the South
Seas by disregarding the hateful tyranny of petty
British consuls; while the San Francisco Bulle-
tin called him a vile and brutal miscreant who
be hanged on the same gallows with Ala-
bama Semmes and Shenandoah Wardell —to whom,
it is interesting to remember, the Melbourne Club
gave a ball at which the adoring women cut off as
souvenirs the uniform buttons of the gallant pirate
and his officers. The spitfire Chronicle, edited
by Charles De Young (afterwards shot by Kal-
loch, jun.), “claimed” that Captain William
Henry Hayes was one of Nature’s gentlemen, and
was certainly not the cause of a terrible domestic
affliction that had befallen the editor of their
esteemed morning contemporary (the Bulletin
man’s wife had bolted with someone).
* * *
Leaving the Co.’s service with a good deal
of saved pay, I went to Tahiti in a coffin-barquen-
tine called the Constitution. I soon got a berth
as trader in the Gambler Islands, and, while there,
saw some young girls whom Hayes had bought
from the King of Aana (one of the Chain Islands).
I hey were very young, very scantily dressed, and,
without doubt, as beautiful as any Mexican girls
I ever saw in Southern California. They were
always shepherded, day and night, by two old
women. One of these chaperones, named Tuna
(the Eel), told me that, by-and-by, the “ big
captain ” would come and take them. This old
Madam Maquerelle Tuna had quite a fund of
anecdota about Bully, whom she regarded as im-
measurably superior to any white man she had
ever seen. When Tuna was a young and giddy
girl of sixteen, she had been much admired, so
she said, by Lord John Townshend (Te ariki
Tauseni) and the officers of His Majesty’s ship
Blossom (1828). Bully Hayes was Lord John’s
spirit returned in another and much stronger
body and better shape; and just as she had fallen
in love with the man-of-war captain, so had all
the Aana girls with his latter-day double.
• • #
At this time, I was the only white man on the
island, and Tuna and her long-haired, dark-eyed
“boarding-school ” came daily to my house, where
they sat on an upturned canoe and drank stone-
gm (luna took her’s neat), while teaching me to
pronounce properly the Paumotu language. Ye
gods ! what eyes those girls possessed ! What is
it —that soft glow of slumbering liquid fire one
sees in the women’s faces of quick-blooded races ?
Any one of those five island girls would have utterly
demoralised even a Trappist monastery, had the
holy brothers seen her face peeping in during
their orisons. This island, Nukutavake, had
but fovv inhabitants, most of whom had boon
brought there by Hayes, who, they said, would
come again in a year or so and take them back to
Aana and Maga-Reva. They were all political
offenders, and to escape death they besought Bully
to take them to Nukutavake until “ the wrath of
the chiefs was dead.” Bully, who had an idea that
there was a lot of pearl-shell on Nukutavake, gave
them all a passage, and also the two old women
and the girls before mentioned. One of the latter,
lalalua, told me that the captain would have taken
her with him, but the ship was too small and
he had no more room, and there were two girls
from Huaheine—dogs with much gold in their
ears with him, who threatened to give her to the
sharks if she came aboard. After I had spent
some months at Nukutavake, one of Brander’s
vessels came for me and I went to another island
called Vairaatea. My departure was marked by
the tearful farewells of Bully’s beauties and old
lima, who embraced me and rubbed noses, and
wept gin-odorous tears of unalloyed gratitude
when I gave her three bottles of liquor. To each
of Hayes’s nymphs I presented a piece of book-
muslin (12 yards each) and a bottle of musk valued
at two dollars a bottle. Talalua and Marami each
gave me some splendid pieces of hawk-bill shell,
and the others contributed among them a silver
ring. Poor girls ! they had no more to give—a
grass titi round their shapely loins and a few silver
or gold rings and ear pendants being all their
worldly wealth and clothing combined. I was
solemnly cautioned never to let Tapeni Esi (Cap-
tain Hayes) know about the turtle-shell and other
gifts or his anger would “eat them up.”
* * *
On hearing of this farewell testimonial busi-
ness, the skipper of Brander’s schooner became
greatly excited—Hayes, he said, would put his
own construction on my gifts. To this, in my
youthful innocence, I replied that X didn’t care, as
it was my business to make a present if I chose;
whereupon the skipper, a jolly old sea-dog named
Tom English, told me that that was all very well,
but that he (English) would be looked upon as an
accessory, and Hayes would make him suffer for
it when they met again.
“ Accessory to what ? ” I said.
“ D your thick skull, you voting ass, why
accessory to makin’ love to his girls.”
Which tickled me immensely, but as I saw that
English was serious, and I was equally determined
not to take the presents back, I wrote a note as
follows, and, after showing it to the old fellow, he
said it might possibly pass with Bully :
Capt. Hayes.
I)r. to , Agent for Maison Brander.
1 piece muslin, 12yds., per Talalua ... $3.00
J » i> >i ~ Marami ... $3.00
} » )> »• „ Sara $3.00
1 » )> » „ Louise ... $3.00
J. » .. ~ Tamarua ... $3.00
5 bottles scent (musk), at $l.OO $5.00
Below this I added s2 °' o °
Capt. Hayes. Dear sir,—The above-mentioned I have
supplied as per bill. I will feel obliged if you will pay
the $20.00 to any of our firm’s vessels on my a/c. I hope
that, as I have not charged you native prices, you will
pay me soon.—Yours, &c., .
I handed the bill to old Tuna, and told her
that she must give it to the captain when he
reached Nukutavake. When I did meet Bully, a
long time afterwards, he paid up like a man, and
two hours afterwards won it back from me in
Charley Cook’s saloon in Apia. X may here men-
tion that old Tuna gave him my letter, and Hayes
wrote me the following epistle, which was lying at
the American Consulate at X 3 apeite, in Tahiti, for
nearly two years before I got it
Mr. ———. Dear sir,—l received your note and bill
for supplying some of my girls with some rotten chetse-
cloth out of Brander’s store, which you have the infernal
impertinence to call muslin ; also, 5 bottles of slinking
bilge-water, labelled musk. I don’t know who you are
but you can tell old Brander, from me, that I will see hint
roasted before I will give him my good money for his
filthy and disgusting Oahu trade goods ; and when I drop
across you, you will get a head put on you that-will teach
you not to meddle with my women, as it they were beach
girls.—Yours very sincerely, Wm. Henry Haves


j
Premier Dibbs owes much of his success to
QNUN Darlings.
Caution:
" G N U N.
Each SNUN Darling is branded
” Refuse all others.
Five-pound gold coins are being issued in
England. They should be able to get into one of
these a fairly realistic bust of Queen Victoria.
Men, women, and children all do say G N U N
Darlings the best smoke of the day.
A splendid example of the beneficial
effects of “ freedom of contract ” may be seen at
a wool-scour in the Goondiwindi district. Black-
fellows, half-castes, Chinamen, and white men
may be seen grafting away all together on equal
terms, at wages which would maintain a bandi-
coot in fairly comfortable circumstances.
A well-invested 3d.—a GN U N Darling,
rpoiEa
TOILET & NURSERY.
— ll 1 1 i>»m« ■■■
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer), lledness,
lloughness and Chapping prevented.
)..(
FAIR WHITE HANDS.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOFT HEALTHFUL SKIN.
Ml*. LANGTRY.
"I have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your .Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other.” 9
(Signed) LILLIE LANGTRY,
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best.”
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdmo. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
‘‘For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world.”
(Signed) MARIE ROZE
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion.”
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Rov. M. WARD BEECHER.
“ If cleanliness ia next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a moans of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. I am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER.
Sir ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of '
England,.)
Writes in the Journal op Cutaneous Medicine :
“ use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles , , . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
H
m
9$
as
s«
1
Pj
i
m
&
■
A School-Teacher’s Idyl.
THE SLAPPING OF SAUNDERS.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Some people pin their faith to one crop; some to
another. Partly, of course, it is a question of
soil and climate. But wherever there is room for
it, you will see the play of predilection. One man
grows nothing but maize and potatoes; another
prefers wheat; a third, up North, says nothing
will pay like sugar. For my part, I pin my faith
to children. They are the best crop Australia
produces.
On the whole, the various Departments of Public
Instruction cultivate them very well. They create
teachers, male and female, in the image and like-
ness of the Ministerial ideal for the time being,
and send them forth to “whale” and to preach.
Perhaps the female teachers are the more attrac-
tive—to a male. You may discern differences in
the different provinces, but in each the teacher is
the better for knowledge which her sex does not
generally possess. Caught young and tender, she
is easily trained, and by the time she has a school
of her own she is worth knowing—if she has not
lost all her sap in the process. Those who, being
female teachers, remain females, are fit help-
meets for the best of men. Their intuition is
elevated by intelligence; their v. 1. bus are chastened
by discipline ; their acquaint;)u; o with capes and
mountains the lore of unman.
The things I have to tell happened in Queens-
land. They might just as well have happened
anywhere else; but they didn’t. It is better to
speak the truth.
A mixed school occurs in places where there are
not enough boys and girls to make it worth while
teaching them separately. Nowadays, mixed
schools are always placed in charge of a married
man. Not many people know the legend of the
last mixed school in Queensland taught by a single
man.
His name was Saunders, and he had “a down
on ” his assistant. There was no doubt of that.
Her name was Jane; and he would annoy her by
calling her in his petty, paltry, punning, peda-
gogic way “janeyus.” “My compliments to
Miss Janeyus,” he would say, “and ask her to
step here a moment.” The boy would repeat the
message literally, and Jane never failed to squirm.
But she always came. She had to. Her applica-
tions for transfer were fruitless.; her complaints
to the inspector wasted breath. After three
years’ torture she made up her mind to resign—
and changed it, hoping against hope.
Then the crisis arrived. She was giving a
sewing-lesson with which, of course, Saunders had
nothing to do; and he came to worry her. He
walked round sniffing and sneering. “ What on
earth’s this?” he suddenly cried, seizing a
sampler and holding it aloft ’twixt scornful finger
and thumb. Then he threw it down before the
child. She was the best girl in the class, and
seeing how affronted the mistrgss looked, she burst
into tears. Jane went as red as fire, then as white
as a ghost. Then she turned on Saunders, and
slapped his face—hard.
He and she cowered, expecting a
blow. The school stared breathless with ashen
faces. But he did not strike her; he did not even
speak. He controlled himself by a visible effort,
went back (■- h' n class, and was vety quietfor
therestof tin* .d -moon.
At four o’clock there was a message that Miss
Wilson was wanted in Mr. Saunders’ room. She
went. He placed a chair for her, and she sat
down.
“I suppose,” he said, formally, “that after
what has happened to-day you will wish to send
in your resignation at once?”
She bowed, and there was a pause. Venturing
to look up, she thought she saw a red mark on his
face, and hastily looked down again.
“It will prevent further unpleasantness,” he
said.
She could not trust herself to speak ; all the
energy had gone from her.
“If you will hand it to me in the morning,” he
said, “ I shall be glad to transmit it.”
She rose, and tottered to the door. He politely
held it open. She crossed the threshold, took a
step—and fainted.
He just saved her from falling, and she lay in
his arms unconscious. Her face was deadly pale.
He called loudly for water, but no one answered.
He cursed himself for his brutality, and prayed
her to recover. She was a long time coming round,
and when her eyes at last opened, he smothered
her with kisses, and she nearly fainted again. But
not quite.
When, a fortnight later, Saunders got a letter
from the department, saying that owing to the
representations of residents it had been decided to
establish a separate girls’ school at the beginning
of the year, he was able to write back and say
that he had arranged to marry Miss Wilson, his
assistant, and recommended her for the post of
head mistress.
Singularly enough, Saunders worships the
ground she treads on.
S.
What’s in a Name?
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
Speaking of the gallantry, urbanity and many
gentlemanly qualities of Peter Jackson, the re-
nowned coloured pugilist, reminds me of an in-
teresting incident I once witnessed in a smoking-
carriage on a Southern line.
The carriage was one of those roomy affairs
with a single seat running right round and a
range of spittoons down the middle. Besides
myself, there were in the compartment three
bumptious “ drummers ” and a large, complacent,
neatly-dressed coloured gentleman, who lolled
back in his seat, and dreamily consumed a cigar.
For some time the commercials amused them-
f flves playing euchre on the end of a sample-box,
.nud juggling with three adult spirit-flasks, but in
a while their natural and carefully-cultivated
“ cheek ” developed into truculence, and a broad,
stiff man, with a port-wine stain and a feline
moustache, begin to “ pick at ” the nigger. He
told several of those charming little anecdotes
peculiar to the craft, the last of which reflected
seriously upon blacks in general, with a strong
inference towards the darkey in company parti-
cularly.
The latter appeared to pay no attention what-
ever to the talk of the drummers ; he lit another
cigar, spread himself all over the seat, and wore a
look of ingenuous felicity as the smoke rolled from
his capacious nostrils. Finding inference of no
avail, the man of commerce became more direct
and personal.
“Say, old man,” he said, “that's a good cigar
of yours. Got any more ?”
The sable stranger rolled his eyes slowly towards
the speaker, and surveyed him for a moment;
then he leisurely drew a cigar-case from his pocket,
opened it, and offered smokes all round. The
drummer was distinctly pulled back, but he had
set himself to do something smart, and so made
another try presently.
“I never yet came across a darkey who could
play euchre,” said he, flirting the pack ostenta-
tiously.
Once again the whites of the dark man’s eyes
began to revolve. He removed the cigar, knocked
the ash off with exaggerated deliberation, restored
it to his mouth, and then as deliberately drew a
neat case from his vest pocket. From the case he
took a genteel, enamelled card, which he tossed
on to the box in front of the drummers.
“ I play euchre now’n again,” he said ; “ that’s
my trump-card.”
The commercials examined the card. During
the next ten minutes three silent and dreadfully-
surprised men occupied the end seat of that car-
riage, and literally stewed in their own juice. At
Seymour they stepped off, but only to take a com-
partment up near the engine. The’ darkey
watched them as they went, and gradually Ids
face relaxed and his mouth expanded into a
copious grin.
I picked up the card that had dropped from the
drummer’s fingers. It was inscribed “P. Jack-
son.”
“ Why didn’t you give him a smack?” I asked.
“Most likely he’d a-licked. me,” answered Mr.
P. Jackson. “My name’s Paul Jackson. I can’t
fight for sour apples.”
Melb.
E.D.
The Reward of Politeness.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
He was strolling down that walk in Hyde Park,
Sydney, which leads towards Market-street tram
stopping-place. He saw something fall, and
looking up, observed a handsome young woman,
carrying a shawl, making for a tram. When he
reached the fallen article he found it to be a
teething-ring. You know the things I mean.
Humanity, in its crawling period, is deluded by
them into believing that cutting teeth is a pleasant
process. The tootn-ring was of no use to him, the
young woman was beautiful, the shawl must have
contained a baby.
Politeness, that is to say the outward and
visible expression of the quality called politeness,
chiefly consists of what in France is called
“ front.” No truly polite man, for instance, ever
picked up and publicly handed to a girl the flaring
red garteT she had dropped. This is but a side-
reflection.
The tram was now half-way to Park-street, yet
after it he went.
Trams are never very fast until someone
is chasing them. That young man thought
he’d caught it, but he hadn’t. The tram
might have been going still, with its panting
Sursuer in the rear, only for a block at the top of
•xford-street. Dashing along the cars he saw the
young woman, saw the shawl, but look for
the baby. The baby didn’t strike him as being
important. Between his struggles for breath he
gasped :
h our—baby’s—ring,” and he held it out.
Ihe young woman shrieked, as only voune
women can, and nearly fell out of the tram. 6
There wa»no baby !
Ihe guard came along and helped everyone
within reach to abuse that young man.
He d made an awful mistake, and “ cleared ” a (
quickly as possible. But how was he to get rib
of that ring ? He dropped it stealthily, but some-
one picked it up and handed it to'him with a
malevolent leer. Several times he endeavoured to
part company with it, but it was always restored
to him. He hadn’t the pluck to deny its owner-
ship, so at last, in desperation, he put it in his
coat-pocket.
When he got home, his mother found it there
and was shocked. The hope of her life had gone
astray ! Explanation was useless.
“ How do I know all this ?” you ask.
I was that young man.
PAUL LEGON.
Why?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The Push” had gone through a country
“bloke,” J
We are told in the Scripture story—
The way they mauled him it was no joke,
They blackened his eyes and his ribs they broke
(So runneth the legend hoary);
And with many an ancient Hebrew curse,
Which to point would defile my elegant verse,
They snatched his watch and snav'elled his purse
And left him bashed and gory.
So flat on the Jericho road, ’mid the stones,
His banged head throbbing and humming,
He lay with a shirtful of broken bones,
Girning his deep and dismal groans,
And crying for help in feeble tones
To the police, who were slow in coming.
A Levite came by that self-same day,
And a fat priest, sleek and ruddy—
They viewed the man as he moaning lay,
Stiff and sore and soiled with clay,
And battered and bruised and bloody ;
And they hurried by on the farther way—
Perchance they had not time to stay,
Or had a pastoral call to pay,
Or mayhap the road was muddy.
Now, why did that fat priest pass him by,
And that Levite, so sleek and steady ?
Why were they deaf to his dismal cry ?
Why did the good men draw not nign
To slobber o’er him, and pray, and sigh ?
The man had been robbed already I
Boorhaman, Yio.
J.M.W.


Here at Last t
Some seven years ago a strange thing happened to the Udy
whose photo, appeals herewith; whereby she became
-A. MI Y STERY
Which no one carl explain or account for so far, not even her
husband. How it happened was this : She lay dying of a compli-
cation of diseases ; often she would faint off, and lie unconscious
as ‘OhR as 30 hours at a stretch—frigid as a corpse and apparently
aead. The leading medical men of Melbourne Were in attendance,
often at a cost of Five Guineas a day, yet she sank lower and
lower. Everything that medical science could suggest was tried ;
even morphia failed to give enough case for two hours’ sleep
daily. At last, in desperation, some said, “ Try Mesmerism.”
Mr. Harle; as a Mesmerist,
Had been very successful on the public platform, and had also
saved life by private magnetic treatment; but Mrs. Harle, being
a lady of very pronounced opinions and strong mind of her own
never could see anything in it but a hobby of his, and so, when
urged to try it, she ridiculed the very idea ; but they said, “ Try
it lor sleep only— you will go mad for want of rest.” For a long
time she could not bring her mind to submit; at last, after much
prayer to God for guidance and help, she was willing to try. '
Alter about half an hour’s mesmeric influence and passes, she
went off into a peaceful hypnotic state, which lasted, as was
intended, from eight at night till ten next morning; and she
awoke rested and refreshed. The experiment was repeated, when
Lo! Everyone was Startled
3
Mrs. J. N. HARLE.
n! , tS 't \. Pur P °ses she was asleep, yet in another sense, the mind was far more awake,
mile awav «"hq^fa t hn k^L i ) boU - W^ufct^, e serva ' lt vvas doin - 0,1 the giound floor, what an acquaintance was doing a
rennPstpH’tl ! ha PPemng th ®. home of a dear friend some few blocks away, and so forth. Then she was
thi oansp of t Cr m'T. b ° dy M tb,s ? he dld ’ and was surprised herself, and surprised everyone else, by tracing
the cause of her tiouble, which proved to bo mainly an internal cancer. She then told them how to cure her.
Crowds of Friends Came to See Her*
to°Le drcle °i acquaintances. She astounded all by her iharvellous powers of visidn-
about thM/onmmpifai f - they "-f e of t ra ' )S P a rent glass, to see the members of their families, to know all
about their commercial affairs, seemed quite easy to her ; England, America, New Zealand, etc., seemed just like next
. The Sensation was Immense!
aSomenon' Dinin S; rool « and Bedroom were crowded with inquisitive people, and the invalid became
lance s ate - TT® ,10 " ( P ' USS '; d wit V h . eir P a tmnt-she gave directions how to soften the cancer to the
mesnmrism whdst Drs tl’ ’ r . a S J hey dar ' e . n . ot % iv . e chloroform on account other heart, Mr. Harle put her under
peTr- » ,I C ,O lnS Street ’ lan f d't.. She awoke without having felt anything that had hap-
peneu. r.v aryone said : Start and use your powers for doing good, you can 1
Save Lives hy Thousands.”
driveson h the Es'ldanade uT'w f he ? ur f d herself-in three months’ time she was again taking her accustomed
pUop,!o OI J r hspianade in her phaeton, to the astonishment of the whole district. To properly torte the sVstem a
was known WaS £ eeded ’ and she . came to N - Wales. For a short time she resided inMaitland; her reUedt
afro M•« w , h-° V re avvare of u her powers, and she got no peace till she agreed to start practice. Five velrs
o rS * opened in Newcastle ; three years out of the five hrlve been spent travelling in the Northehi district
and away in the bush discovering gold mines, and she seems to be able to find gold as easy as trace dlseale ’
. . Seven Thousand People Have Consulted Her
In her mesmeric state ; some about business, but most about their health. Not one can sav •“I am worse for vonr
treatment, whilst all who have followed the advice and treatment, rejoice in restored health Mrs Harle describes
vfsion LTmear o s 'i g m’p fin n th b dadSe ° f e . very Uouble » and Prescribes remedies and treatment Herwonderfulmental
*"• how ions 11 *■ >° —fc—**» a»
niZv* 18 5 o? Mortally offend Mrs. Harle, jiist class fvlth the card-reading, palm-scannino- fortune-teilino-
N S°he U e^ biSh ! A rs ' Har,e is r^ erised by her hus’ba P nd wbrnTin the Hy^nodS
the meSiPmdsm"is l umform * q>!p n Sh ? cann °J open her eyes, yet she hears, talks, asks and answers questions, etc. When
or dead undone, she awakes, and knows no more of what has happened, than if she had been chloroformed
It Causes a Terrible Mental Strain,
ite Fee is half ? 6n she j las doiie *"<*>**• a " d ">a.v refuse any or all at such times,
tropm. U 1 fo , “i' examination, and a guinea for business advice. The half-guinea includes a
£5 and even a ” d a statement of how to cure j ou. Business men have voluntarily paid as high as
Vnr, a i ® ! /. 0r the arrangement of a business tangle. She guarantees in all cases a full value id the treatment
bowels how 3e "u £s “ wlt , h a^e - sex . occupation , all symptoms, particularly state of
Pub^and Xre f< peopkmfy oil! and t t 0 iho
SYDNEY ADDRESS-200 PITT-STREET. SYDNEY (between Market and Park-Streets).
One minute from G. P. Office. HOURS :-10 to 12 a.m. ; 2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
Newcastle Address: HARLE’S BOTANIC HALL, Tram Terminus (City), Newcastle.
Wholesale and Retail Botanic Remedies, and all Druggists’ Sundries.
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY
AND THE
Greatest Show in the Whole of Australia.
IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED ON BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
as far asa sovereign spent elsewhere.
the Government will be chafed to our patrons heretofore. Not 1 cent of the duty recently put on by
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
(Magnificent (Stock of jewellery.
ALL AT FREETRADE PRICES.
™ ART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
ana Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches-birds, butterflies
w'aj e nnovelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday 1 resents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
inexpensiv e Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
ot the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings Sets
Linksand Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6si 6d., Bs. 6d. and 10s.
OR. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
oi Ladies and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
bedding and 'Keeper Rings, a special variety.
All at Freetrade prices.
i u D I UV ’ S °N ar| d CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tirul Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
hiost. tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen s la and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
Stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidenced the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
Appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises thie most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets. Afternoon
Tea Sets Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies ; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children s Birthday Presentations, A very
extensive variety of Salts, Peppe. Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers. Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Causes, Portrait Frames,.Thermometers, and other fancy
ar a l 'Si?uV » 4™? Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STL WART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s
6d. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-niqunted Long-shaped Purses (portmdnnaies), Card
Cases, bitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
ab ' c , f r or presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
faSeinnlueS, m ° Bt ele * ant des * ns > is the
Stock of Finest Silver
Llectio-pJate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles
Dish Covers, Entree Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Bouflsf e iv Vy -ffV 10 ' So ,l ld Sl, sar and Pickle Dishes,
80w15,,&c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
St ?"? s ’ Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, truit and Fisli Knives, Carvers Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
r<m T i! iVV f Aß iv J ? AW S° N and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 25s
to ±lO. \Ve have several special registered designs
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we°are
selling them daily \ our attention is most respectfully
invited all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney. la
W ate ii e s,
ZD I E.E G T IP
otid s, J o "vst" eXx g r y gj ■
THE MOST RECHERCHE stock in the southern hemisphere.
EOM THE MA2ZUPACTUBEBS TO THE
ver-pxate.
PUBLIC.
SfBWARf DAWSON & CO.’S
• WORLD-FAMED
ENGLISH LEVERS.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
£3
G S, r,?;£; a ” d CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
LLVJEIi. Lasts a lifetime.
Well worth £5.' Highest quality.
£3 ?23® rand Liverpool ENGLISH
i npn f PaU i i ‘ Ni iv . every known improve*
n d )a a r ". ce : Defies all competition. Cheap at
AtSihs. Beware of imitations. 1
£4 J OS,W®t0 S, W®t I T X i aar ! CO-’S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
„ , , LiiiV LitS. Three pairs extra lewplq
and real chronometer balance. Perfection.
££ I OSj0 S jj 1 j^ T j ) <; ) ,-£3o’ S .‘ Keyless
£8 'Ss. 1 ' 1
1,4 « ■ ujii>;iiniuenc Jveyiess
jEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£5 , 10*1 ENG-
£6 1 OS-^0 S -^T S - D ' and C - S s:rand Three-quarter-plate
. Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER-
thousands in wear; without equal.
£1 0. -£• D - and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER.
£I I I O’ 5, and CO.’S English Double-minute
r pvm . „ and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English.
£l n S -~, S -J; ) ; T i lud CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
, WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £l - 12s. (id.
£5 I OS-0 S -^ S ', D - and co -’ s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
- Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable.
£8 ‘ 1 0 S ” £ . 10 „ 10s -. and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
X 1. u Everlasting 18 carat
I.nghsh GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
£I 0 I l^ s -> £l5 10s., to £25.—S. D. and
~ ~ , , , CO. s Stock of Gentlemen’s Pine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals.
£45 AlN ' > £5O - L S ‘ ]) ' . a,,d CO.’s GOVERNMENT
.. , / * I KEW A'Oertiflcate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
We hold the largest stock of these to be found on the
Australian continent, and we ask every reader to compare
ours with the prices you have been paying. Notwithstand-
ing the duty of 15 per cent, recently put on by the
Government, the following will be found from 121 to
40 per cent lower than Waltham Watches have ever
been sold in Sydney;—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate ..
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .. ”
Ditto ditto, compensation balance T.
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, f-plate, 7 jewels"
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
T :i pairsextra jewels, compensation balance
Ladies Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat ..
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat "
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat .. ’*
AH the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
I Low Prices.
£2 7
2 12
3 0
3 10
4 4
5 10
7 10
12 10
9 i)
14 10
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter
plate, key-wind mg and keyless, in gold and silver eases
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.'
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per nosl
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance^
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Denari
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals Lockets
&c„ and the special value we offer defy all compeUtion ’
NOTE. — Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work-
o order We hold a very large Stock ofLoose Dia.onN
Run.cs, Sapphires Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in ti, . . I .
possible time at lowest prices. ReSKvsrv
tion by the best WORKMEN. P Ever > D "3cnp.
GEORGE STREET, and STRAND ARCADE.
aai Jewelory
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE and
Palace,
AUCKLAND.
“In Four Seasons.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
Fomi times I saw her in as many years. The
first time was in Summer, and she, beneath a
gigantm fern tree by the creek, was washing
clothes. Her age, not 17. Her face with childish
innocence was sweet, as was her voice which
raised in song, mingled with the notes of whip-
bird, black-cap, and a hundred more. She was
happy. He had not yet come,
* * •
’Twas Autumn when I saw her once again. In
a theatre crowded hot and close. The healthy
colour of the bush had gone ; her dress was gay,
her face wore a charmed look. She was still
happy. He was by her side.
* * *
One wet, cold night in Winter was the third.
She stopped me in the street. The wreck of what
had once been innocent and sweet. But when she
saw my look of horror, she started, drew her thin
dress tightly round her form and hurried on
facing the driving rain. ’
* * *
In Spring, the last and happier than the third—
and yet 1 saw her not. Upon a marble slab a
something lay. A jet of water washed away
the river mud from out “its” golden hair. The
birds notes sounded by the creek at home. The
ferns and trees put forth fresh fronds and leaves
Enough the epitaph she had : “Found drowned.”
lor she had sought a greater change than is the
loveliness and warmth of Spring from cold and
cheerless Winter.
Vic.
THE PAUPER.
To Memory Dear.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A Queensland town, which need not here be
named,
Where ironbark woods do closely hug' the
clearing,
For showers of sand and leaves ’tis somewhat
tamed,
And there the red sun gets the biggest share in
Hemmed by a run where great king squatter
reigned—
The small selector generously sparing—
Although by greed impelled his ardent wish is
io bolt him as a shark would smaller fishes.
A string of straggling shanties built of bark,
With here and there a roof of sultry iron
1 hat stood above the rest as if to mark
greater from the smaller that environ
J ust as the parson stands above the clerk ’
T When preaching of the devil, piling fire on.
Just so each whited corrugated roof
Above the humbler bark ones stood aloof.
A broad, bleached, sandy stream-bed mid the flat
OaJJcd up the ghost of a departed river,
VV hereon the shimmer of the noon sun sat
_ lose again to cast a dazing Quiver
Between the bowed-down files of tea-trees, that
beeped praying to the great Almighty Giver
Hi ram His blissful water on the land—
I was mostly twenty feet beneath the sand.
A spanking line of coaches, four-horse power
. twl ? fc this torrid township and the coast
And sometimes brought—enveloped in a shower
.Uf dust—two sweating “ insides ”at the most.
They’d scurry up the street at sunset hour
nd rein up at the shanty’s corner-post,
ouch was the object wondrously exciting
lne natives weekly saw and saw delight in.
At times a flock of travelling sheep would pass,
A drove of cattle or a mob of horses,
rm 1 , f .°. r the South, perhaps, for stress of grass—
A T ir of the squatters’ crosses,
A Stung °f bullock-teams with drivers “flash ”
Ut objurgating arts, the very bosses
Wh. L!: anch and Jabo, ; r through the dusty town
itli mtions up or wool or copper down.
And now and then a brace of swagsmen came,
,tt, gentle shepherd or a mob of sliearers,
Wild knocked their cheques down in a jocund
as sad as coffin-boaretft,
With chequered memories as of a dream,
w f° ! WeU tke ?ai| k.s of river-bend wayfarers
A,fH°^ P6d th f ‘hstrict round in grand divisions
And on the squatters levied requisitions.
blacksmith, grizzled, bronzed and grim,
hammer bar!c ' for^e swung his clanking
And made the curfew toll of workday din
mid the rasping locust’s dying clamour. j
A staid, foot-trooper with a languid grin,
Tn ~°,? mg tIie shade-spots in a listless manner,
W St 11 a mo P e ;hawk from its darksome camp, •
Would come and glare upon the shanty lamp.
And yet this very sultry town could claim
teature strange to more pretentious places;
JNo business rivals worthy of the name
1 hiew opposition filth in other’s faces ;
IN o publican was ever heard defame,
Or doctor ever damn his brother’s cases ;
rhe fiend of ill-feeling found defeat
.Because of—only one side to the street.
No rival newsmen vented inky spleen,
riii ea ch other with incisive leaders ;
l lie social atmosphere was even clean
i<rom lawyers wrangling over interpleaders !
Nor even travelling parson there was seen
supplying pabulum to gospel feeders •
But somewhere else, mayhap, with arms’akimbo
Anathemised it as a thirsty limbo.
It may be that the enervating air
Induced a kindly mental constitution,
It may be that a fight requires a pair,
m 7' (i P ea P e Prevailed from very destitution.
Whatever be the cause, ’tis very clear
nf 1 r^i nat - lV - < i S ne ’? r had kn °wn the fell intr usion
Ut little civil war’s contentious bone
To vex the normal quiet of their home.
.Such was the place—if memory serves aright—
that haunts our mind with dismal recollection ;
lire name is gone, and in our present plight
aw 1 °, nly lives the f? or y valediction ;
We left there in a fit of whisky-blight,
And somewhere, somehow* compassed resur-
rection.
We suffered from an all-pervading thirst there.
And this we know—we had a fortnight’s “burst”
there.
Tasmania.
GAMBUSINO.
The copper plate erected by Captain
1' linders at the head of Memory Cove, near Port
Lincoln b. A to tell future travellers of the fate
o Mr Hustle and the boat’s crew drowned near
Cape Catastrophe in 1 eb., 1802, is now in Adelaide
Museum, but the inscription cannot be read


Here is an incident from the South
“—Mississippi, written in April, 1890,
just after the Grippe had visited that
country. ‘‘l am a farmer, one of
those who have to rise early and
work late. At the beginning of last
Winter I was on a trip to the City
of Vicksburg, Miss.,where I got well
drenchcyl in a shower of rain. I
went home and was soon after seized
with a -dry, hacking cough. This
grew worse every day, until I had
to seek relief. I consulted Dr. Dixon
who has since died, and he told me
to get a bottle of Boschee’s German
Syrup. t Meantime my cough grew
worse and worse and then the Grippe
came along and I caught that also
very severely. My condition t]jeu
compelled me to do something. I
got two bottles of German Syrup. I
began using them, and before taking
much of the second bottle, I was
entirely clear of the Cough that had
hung to me so long, the Grippe, and
all its bad effects. I felt tip-top and
have felt that way ever since.”
Pkter J. Brians, Jr., Cayuga, Hines
Co., Miss. ®
Established 1876.
j
I VVSITE F
r d?
HAIR’S
f TREATISE
ASTHMAj
*1
ĵ
Rocke.
Welbourhe
ejcrnpsm»p^
SYDNEY: DllOtt BfQS
Brisbanj; 7 Elliott Bro?»(«
Adelaide nTFauldinjyC?.
JWeli imjton NZ SharlancTirC. ,
- AucKi.Ann iC? . S)rS>.
JJW.'f.-y Trztf.'Se W Testimonials fnfc*
JsjmfAddres^
& £/>
<c?.o^ ery F * c y<s>
\ v O'"
•Q, •/
°^<z-
from
' every flower that u
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
0/any Chemist or
Perfumer.
street
Bewareo/imitations. The genuine igeigned
TRADE MARK is M USX DESK.
ĵ
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
INVICORAto^
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’OO, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “ It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, aud give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and impearance of the
fig.irc without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don't be put off with old shapes; insist on
having onr new long waist. If any di.liculty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
Hallo, there ! smoke GNUN Darlings.
At Forest Lodge you can buy GN U N
Darlings.
Sweet; as honey. Mild as milk. G N U N
Darlings.
Special Advertisements.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
£s^
£Sr The only thorough!}
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS.
BRONCHITIS
Aim
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
-Jity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers. Limited
COLLEGE, MEDICAL SCHOOL-
Glasgow, 16. th Nov., 1892.
To Messrs. Bosisto and Co.,—
It is with pleasure that I write to state
my opinion of your Eucalyptus Oil. It is de-
cidedly better than any other similar oil which
can be obtainedjn this country.
It is a lighter, clearer and more ethereal oil
than any I have hitherto used, besides being free
from the heavy, nauseous odour characteristic of
others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is
sprayed into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally,
which places it above other preparations and con-
siderably enhances its value.
(Signed),
GEORGE BELL TODD, M. 8., Pro-
fessor of Zoology, Anderson’s Coll. :
Assistant Physician, Samaritan Hos-
pital for Diseases of Women, Glasgow.
The above is a most valuable testimonial. It
was entirely unsought, and was freely sent to
Bosisto and Co., of Richmond.
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND”
EUCALYPTUS OIL is sold in all the colonies
at Is. per bottle.
Beware of inferior articles now offering. Many
of these so called “ eucalyptus oils ” are produced
from messmate and bastard gums, nauseous in
odour, and almost worthless from a medical point
of view.
Ask for Bosisto’s “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus
Oil. Look for the words, “J. Bosisto, Rich-
mond,” blown on bottle. None other is genuine.
Is. per bottle.
KRUSE’S
INSECTICIDE
CLEARS
the house
THE CONSERVATORY
AND THE GARDEN
OF ALL. INSECT PESTS.
For Destroying Aphis, Kruse’s Insecticide should
be lightly sprinkled over the Blighted Plants in
still weather and when the leaves are dry. It
also destroys Wood Lice, Ants, and other Insects.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE is far more effectual
than Tobacco Smoke in Conservatories and
Ferneries, while it is perfectly harmless to plants.
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
Harmless to animal life, and can therefore be
applied with best results to Dogs, Cats, Poultry,
AC. ; AC.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
Kruse's is the Original and Only Genuine.
Sold in Tins at 1/-, 1/6, 2/6 & 5/- each.
j
Full music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
j
e %
j
or
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B,
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
569. Maggie Murphy’s Home.
585. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in C.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 in F.
618. Remember now thy Creator.
619. Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. Thecountry wedding Barn Dance
W. H. BROOME,
15 Holborn, London, E.C. ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock-
How to Learn “ Ihe Banjo in 8 jSasy Lessons.” Post free, Is-
Est. 18451 TRADE BUITUED. [Est. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
Sold by Confectioners an'd Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S sweet)
Lancet.
(THE CEL
S SWEET)
tO A
zA
St. Joint’s Works, London, W.C.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World 1
Bar KTone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as Siany new arrivals
have lately made New South ffalea their home it
may be as well to let them know tliat there is snob
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproduotionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUPPER PROM PILES
when one application will relieve you? ’
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your Josephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
I remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES'-of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight.— There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSONS
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known,
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two ©r three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak ILoudkr than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows ;
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking_ two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE ! S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
. “(Sigted) G. HEWETT,
f “ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll-Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
arid comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BfTTERS than any cough medicine tried before. '*
Baron Eerzilius’— -
~ Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Qlands, and Retention dr Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the huiban frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it al§o assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy Uction of the secretions and
inducing perspiratiw.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome, tonic, being pure and
strengthening: a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
O. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed bv greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a dpsire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed. *'
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask fo»
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney.
Old Death’s-head.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Our wardsman was morose, sullen, mysterious.
Warrego Jack, vainly struggling with phthisis,
swore he was mad. I christened him Old Deaths-
head.
Our side of ward B had eight beds, and eight
patients, I among the number, groaned in them.
We seemed a doomed lot, as first one and then
another went off, until only I and Ginger Wat-
son, a Barcoo man, remained.
Old Death’s-head was as merry as a marriage-
bell whenever a man “ turned it up,” as we used
to say. As he drew the screen around the cadaver,
he would whistle the while, and then, turning to
the man nearest, would say : “Your turn next.
Have the screen round you soon.” We grew to
hate him.
Watson at last died, and I alone remained.
“Good record!” muttered Old D. “Seven
gone—one more, and then I’m off, too. All dead
—dead as Julius Caesar !”
Once I awoke to find the doctor and two nurses
at my bedside.
“ Feel better ? ” asked the doctor.
“ Pretty weak. What’s up ?” I asked.
“ Lie still—how did you get the bandages off ? ”
“ Must have had the nightmare,” I thought.
A week passed and I gained strength rapidly.
“You’re going to slip through, after all,” said
Death’s-head. “Why don’t you die like the rest? ”
“ Get out! ” I replied. He laughed, muttered,
and moved on to wax the floor. Next morning,
bandages off again. I half dead, providentially
found bleeding to death in time. The doctor
talked of a strait waistcoat. The thing was a
mystery to me.
One night, as I grew stronger, I lay awake.
The ward was in darkness and silence, save for a
groan from the opposite side. Suddenly I heard a
stealthy step and felt the inexplicable feeling ever
attendant on a material presence. I was about to
speak, but a hand gently felt my face and I
refrained. Then the hand slid quietly down
beneath the bedclothes, and deftly, softly, the
bandages were being manipulated. This could be
done easily as my limb, mangled and torn by the
reaper, was slung in a wicker-work arrangement
clear of the bed. With the strength of rage and
fear combined I seized the wrist and held on
while I cried loudly for help. I was dragged to
the floor suffering tortures, but held on. Pre-
sently a rush of feet and lights, and as a flash
showed me the face of my ghostly visitant, I
muttered, “Old Death’s-head, by !” and
fainted. I eventually got well,
I don’t think they allow Old D. to attend the
sick patients in Callan Park Lunatic Asylum.
One of the results of the depression in
Queensland is that the number of boys doing
men’s work has been largely increased during the
past twelve months. In stores, in offices, in
factories, and everywhere, men are told to stand
aside and boys are put in their places. The press
is silent on this matter for the best of reasons.
Boys (“ improvers ” and apprentices) have ousted
many men because they are cheaper in the com-
posing-room.
After Solicitor-General Isaacs had leapt
over the heads of his legal “ seniors ” and offered
his tribute to Higinbotham on behalf of the Bar of
Victoria, he got a “nasty one” from junior
Purves. The smarting Q.O. observed that Isaacs
had left little for him to say, but he thought he
might venture to suppose that “if the shade of
the late Chief Justice were present nothing would
be more abhorrent to it than stilted eulogy .”
Purves was not quite right there, however. An
open display of ill-feeling between learned brethren
would have offended the good man’s spirit most of
all.
Dear Bulletin, —You seem to think that
camels are an absolute necessity in Western N.S.
Wales. I’d like you to name one track, from
Bourke to any part of N.S.W., that is impassable
for horse or bullock teams, even in the driest
seasons. Certainly, ere Government tanks and
watering places were constructed along the dry
roads, the camels would have been a boon. But
now their proper place is not N.S.W., but the
sandy wastes of Queensland, Centralia, and \Ves-
tralia, where they are almost indispensable. You
off handedly suggest that the horse might be
abolished in favour of the camel. So it will, when
N.S.W. is handed over to the Asiatics, which, at
the present rate of progress, will be sooner than
you expect. You say the fittest is going to sur-
vive. Well, the camel is not the fittest now in
N.S. Wales, whatever it might have been 20
years ago. Camels don’t take kindly to waggons ;
they are too-slow and stubborn, and thejr feet
were not designed for heavy pulling, and if you
advocate the present system of camel-loading you
advocate barbarous cruelty in many cases—in
carrying wool, wire-netting, boring-pipes, and
timber, all of which the poor brutes have to
struggle under. The constant friction causes
frightful sores on their backs, which their kind
masters, the Afghans, sometimes endeavour to
hide from the public gaze by sewing basil or can-
vass on to the live skin; but, as a rule, they don’t
bother about it at all, as they aren’t liable for
cruelty to animals, the camel not being an animal
“ within the meaning of the Act,” according to our
local magistrate. For the same reason they have full
possession of the Bourke Common free of charge,
whereas carriers and others have to pay stiffly for
having their horses scattered in all directions. If,
as you seem to wish, the camel gets possession of
the roads, half the public watering-places will be
non-revenue-producing, for the wily Afghans use
the camel’s great powers of endurance to escape
payintr water charges. Also, If you were com-
pelled to live on some of the flour that is carried
on that smellful animal’s back, your enthusiasm
would cool considerably. Supposing there is any-
thing to be gained by substituting the camels for
horses and bullocks, how is it to be done, when
there are more teams now than there is employ-
ment for? Scores of teams are either camped, or
travelling, waiting or looking for something to do.
That being so, how, in the name of common sense,
are the white carriers going to sell their teams and
expensive waggons in an already overstocked
market, and buy camels at from .£4O to .£7O each ?
The thing is absurd, especially when there is no
benefit to be gained, but a decided loss, to this
district, which is the most important carrying dis-
trict in N.S.W.—P. A., Bourke (N.S.W.), 28th
Jan., 1893.
MOST OF THE DISEASES
Of the kidneys are caused by overwork and
exposure of the person to cold. Wolfe’s Schnapps
is invaluable for kidney ailments.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Son’"
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.


Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
$
CESS/
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAtJZE-
UNDEKVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments,
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Wooden System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Send lor List
‘Tales of the Convict System/
BY
“PRICE WA.RUNG."
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
HOT IIfEATHER
A.T W EA.R.
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. 6d. & 5s C5c3L.
2^>
&
e?'
3s. 6d. & ss. 6 cl.
G. H. SMITH & SOX, SOLE AGENTS.
Gr. I3C. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEAF
NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck's Invisible Tubular Kar Cushion*.
Whispers heard. Successful when all
remedies fail. Write lor book o i prooil
‘isvrnnf
49 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
[FREE,
j
JM}
.0
W HISKY
X
"'M
■SiK
B£St on Earth
Sole Agents—
Hit's Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited,
LADIES I
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
Female PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
‘Tales of the Convict System/
—BY—
* e "W aLana/rag,»
from The Bulletin, are now published and
way be had of any bookseller; or will be
Posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d, in stamps.
Boated to any English address for Is. 10d.
in stamps.
Hotel.
IHE IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pltt-street to
Fustlercagh-strcot),
Between Kin<j & Market Sts.
SYU,\KV.
ill
i
W
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
60tcE[,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
'PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin," disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
aufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Fills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S 1 PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Brfeath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bebcitam’s Cougu
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
6EATEFOL—OOMFOETIN6
COCOA
ĵ
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
j
Sco
IE
Whisky
pAMr
?Menzies
scow
DRINK
“AULB
SCOTTIB”
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
M arket.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
‘A Golden Shanty.’
PEIOE ; TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, fttzger \ld
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Buu.ktin and “A Golden
Shanty, ’ Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
BETTER THAN GOLD.
—THE—
Di. TYSON SANATORIUM,
IfVMMVHK
Patients received for the Treatment of
OPIUM HABIT, DRUNKENNESS
and
3XT eurasthenia.
Cures Guaranteed. No Pain, Discomfort, or Restriction.
Private apaitments and attendants if desired. Dr.
Tyson’s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case, and is the ONLY REMEDY which can be
taken at home with certainty of success. All business
strictly confidential.
For terms, etc., call on or address — H. Franklin,
Sec., Scott Chambers, 96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used.
i3T” A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes o grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious.
rose’s m
a
clefts
te
V
m
o
c
B 5
IMB
RELIABLE,
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to’cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
&T Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
-A-nd. Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. U ADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms: 84 Bathurst Street. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A
j
f
s
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s. to 15s. Cd. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashful ness,-want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
drugs.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich,
Invites every invest!
gation as to
Ms
Qualifica-
tions,
Ur*.
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., & c .,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRYS
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
nim to undertake t e treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat'd of in Dr.
Pern s pamphlet, and particulars given -as to how this
most enslaving- habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his path nts with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the hotly. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Bslt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l,
Consulting hours from 10 turn, to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m, ou
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
NERVOUS MEN.
vW
v\
3?
EUREKA
a
electric
BELT
n
vi
%
S: '
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OP THE NERVOUS SYSTE2I
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to-furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a centinuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts,restoring them to health and vigorousstrength,
even the worst case permanently cu: ed in three months!
It is more convenient to wtar than any other Beit. A
Book illustrated, containing full infonnation and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System
will he forwarded to any'address or. receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address .-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
X
< V <o*
"<SJ
ĵ
V
HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
The Lank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascer|nined on
application.
S VI) NK Y 8 14 ANCI IKS
£2,400,000
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


Free X’resorlptlona
Are to be found in the “tight and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
J (••■Minot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Hiirhest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s wnisky.
30 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
0
Sydney Agents; CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone W‘i.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
crcrTTJE&rz-
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show H.00m9
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK/’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
'M'OW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
((
THE LAST OF SIX:
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
. >9
EEISTEST PAVEIiTC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling —Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Put Street, Sydney.
—THE—
COLONNADE HOTEL PALACE,
656 George Street;, Sydney,
IS TUB
BEST HOTEL IN SYDNEY
FOR
New South Wales, Queensland ’ Victorian and New Zealand Visitors .
All Visitors wishing to obtain the GREATEST COMFORT, BEST TABLE
and PUREST LIQUORS during their stay in Sydney, should try this
HOME in every sense of the word at REFORM PRICES.
Per WEEK .. .. .. £1 10s. and £2 2s.
Per DAY .. .. .. (is. and 7s. Cd.
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS, and telegraph for Single or Double Rooms.
The House contains 32 Bedrooms, Drawing, Dining, Reading, Smoking and Billiard
Rooms. Bath-rooms and Lavatories on every landing.
It. JENNINGS MCGRATH, Proprietor.
&*
I
TV
A
70
V
4.
a
O
o
X
-f
<?*
<RAck ArocK>
o
o
O
o
&
o
a
I*. A. Hervoy, Afient, 144 Clarencr-tt . Sydney.
///
/
i
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson's Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
j
mt:u ij
r
KE & LACY CO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C. t &0.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
(LIMITED).
Kock Breakers.
Westlnehonse Engines.
%
*
■■. X
MU
id
■-
V-’ r
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESUES.—BO. lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Eire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street l '""" °«"i Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
ĵ
Wolfe-street, Newcastle,
Queen-street, Auckland.
Hi D
.V.
'■ ti-
lls
