

a
cs
ft?
CO
£
&
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
R. WATKINS «&£ GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Twining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
-
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
% *
% ■ «
©
%
%
<5
©
%
*
A
O
o
<?!
o
*
t3T“ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes » grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. K-iF” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
rx
~VS
■■ /
Ji.
/t'l
o*
f ofi®
!sU*asa==xJS
E
S
m 4U
, P . £»-'■
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
Lenten Season. LeiltGll S6clSoll ! Lenten Season.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh (good and gee Company, Ltd.
Fish ! Fish ! Fish. !
/"AWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.—as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
Jd. per lb. for the most distant towns —the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 per cent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.- We shall be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs - Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
I3Cy. Fateson, Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WHEEL'S fHISET. HLSOPf’S ILL
JOHN WALKER, 24 BOMD STREET, SYDNEY.
J. «$& o.
Sole Agents 1m- Sscrntto.
HOWARD.
Wales for Messrs. Clayton and. Sianttleworth.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
-WlUlillSiliitllitnSiiimlautterm
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Riding.
m
mtt i fwntnH \.wr.n\,wV, 192= .
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
0*
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
(tightness in fraught, ( Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can bo replaced for Gd. each.
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC lIGHTING ENGINES WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. XW Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & C Howard, 2801 r»ltt Street,, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. 1385. J
[Saturday, April 1, 1893.


By “ PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
PIERCE’S
Chain BELT
I?) TRADE MAR
WEAK MEN.
"J>r. Pieree’s fialvanie
Ciiain Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and omy perfect body
battebt now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
paets and restores them to
Health and VigorousSlrength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best!
Send for Pamphlet No. 2. Wash. H. Soul&Co.
Sydney,and Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents.
MASNETIC EL AS. TESJSS CO.,San Francisco, u. S.A.
A.SK FOR
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
DOWS
lAEMBROCATION
£ ~ i*' 1 6 %
/)- ;•:
„ 'V\
\( old
''.everywhere
m
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. ” — Chas. LI. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm, Johnstone
Ph D,, F.C.S., <fec.. Public Analysts.
UR. RIDGES ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
ijgggr *
v.o.
|(WMY|
Whisky f||
Demers BpofHs^s
mm
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR lE3,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Coot Cssar MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
R.E3MCEDIE S,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER.
Central Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
is one of the most refreshing Perfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
xne sweetest of all sweet odours. The
oriemal and on)v F.cconna
AIMNSUft'S
EAU DE COLOGNE
CAUTION ! —Only centime with shield.
Xrade Mark—a “ White liose ”
and address in full
Xrade Mark-
M ANHOO I>.
O* RJCORD?
t SSENC & V Ll F E-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry db Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE. ’ *
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st, Sydney.
R)R Consumption use
ons
df
4 V
/
//
THE .ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory:
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
MOW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
The
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Brighton, of KTew South Wales.
A. most Comfortable
Sitting and Bedrooms
High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining
s, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families. 3
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. BZILMIKTSTBR °
GROSVENOR HOTEL,
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Doable Room, Bs.
* »
£
Js. Always fne Best
Scale
a
o T dvertlslng
-IN-
THE BULLETI
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An KXTKA DISCOUNT of 5
cent, allowed for
6s. per inch per insertion, nett,
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25
IDs. per inch per insertion, netfc
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
44
OF SIX s"
TA LES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
EEITE3T r T 7" IS !tsT C.
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Pays the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
the strange
That they
COUNTRY PUBLIC-SCHOOL EXAMINER (to scholar on object-lesson): “Now, then,
tell me this—what is it a bird can do which I am unable to
do?” —(Wanting the answer “fly.”)
SCHOLAR : “Lay eggs, sir.” —( Collapse of examiner.)


Medical.
Assisted By Dr. ELMSLIE,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A-, L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
p.O. Box 920.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
i iTniversitv U.S., registered by the Governments
W and NZ. and ’has devoted Sixteen Years
ft special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
nr«EASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
Po hinf will receive his honest opinion of their com-
nKints No experimenting ;no mercury used. A posi-
tve cure guaranteed or forfei t £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing hut an itiorganie trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot he removed with the
lao o-nnrnnf.PPS. TTg dailTlS tO
his particular speciality
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours : 10 to 13 a.m. ; 3to 4 and
7 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor hut honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr SPEER wishes it to he distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
- celebrated
PILLS.
1. -AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 55., or 21s. tor five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMEBIC AN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper when writing
Men I have Smiled with.”
W E STAY at JES ruton’ a,
wanaTnoD
STAY AT TIIE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
CHILTERN, VIC.
■rj McSWINEY’S STAR HOTEL
' ' Is" tub Bust. "
"W-A.GrGr.A--
Q-ive E. IXTauglatoxi
__ (AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
tt 2T Under New Management. ISA
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
Ss. per Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager .. Geo. Ily. James
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
ALBURY.
the globe hotel
(T. K. BROWN, Proprietor)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
New Sample Room just Added.
GRAND
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking'
Treasury Gardens.
•nmiootiTOW
T-
masm
Li wEri
i i
fij ip* ipBflihafi
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking'
Treasury Gardens.
Hoard and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
merits for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
©rand Hotel, Melbourne.
Tales of the convict system.
FRIGE - ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
m
9>
T
L.R.C.S. L.M.R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered toy
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young _ and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even -though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, it
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions; —Do you experience
Giddiness, Wealc Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, e ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy heel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste m the
Mouth, Foul Breath* Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world darned “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed-to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s '
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as-a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment ; he will cure all Lpcal
Complaints, and thus enable thein ,to flurry
honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday-9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday
7 p.m. to 9 p.hi.
it3T Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
I'LEASIi QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WKITING,
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out Unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint, Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you-to sit down-quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. Ho will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. It you do not think you understand your
case', send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should bo
addressed ;
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
•_\l
postage
FREE, A LARGE
pronounced incurable.
CONSULTATION TREE.
Shipping.
.ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
* IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £GG.
Combination Ticket, <£s2 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Sapaoa)|
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSA6ERIES MARITIME?,
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers o( 0000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
Steamers.
Australien .. G. Didier
Ville de la
Ctotat ..iFiaschi
Commander. Leave Sydney
April
May
27 May
27 May
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £6>,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following ratest—
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further.particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquario-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep;
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
,lsli T “5 Kill Scrub Co.’s
1) E STJM CTA NT,
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SY33KTBY.
Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
wliilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Lsq.,
in the presence of the well-known .botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Biowne (Director Genera!
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
h ss's Maiglocltche 1
lil/tflheValW
STW 1"" 5E
iftgua*
LOHSE'S
MAIGLdCKCHtW
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high c ' ass T er f umers -
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
Q 11, FO 11 A MOUSTACHE!!
Ca pillarine!
JtgT“ The Lightning Moustache Producer. TPS
Reliable, Safe, ar.d Simple to Use. Follow directions, ant*
a Mousl nolle will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
(lit A 14a »V AITKIN, Sole Agmts,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM,
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
£49,460 £\ s “ A "oo™„r


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Znife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 18/- each.'
df
82?“ POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
w. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
o
J (*i
S'
\t£
uMJi
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. BROWN, Proprietor.
OME
&
&
aSS* 31
&SBST
_ @VIKS
machine
W°rlb
Before purchasing any other
sexd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
-
HOME
S
j.WJotinston&Co
M
746 GEORGE ST. {Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
When slovens gel* Mdy they polish ihe
bottoms of the pans V-when
RVANW
are giventaaasmsrmey a
never tired of cleaning up
df
' ll >.
k rU>
Two servants in two neighboring houses dwelt,
But differently their daily labor felt;
Jaded and weary of her life was one,
Always at work, and yet 'twas never done.
The other walked out nightly with her beau,
But then she cleaned house with SAPOLIO.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
d
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Austrama-T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE
STREET,
NEWTON & LAMB.
Every Article of Household Furniture within
the Means of Everyday Purchasers.
DINING-ROOM SUITES.
£9
£.l ‘I
£l9
<£22
£27 10s
SUITE, comprising SIDEBOARD with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK
DINING TABLE, SETTEE, Two ARM CHAIR I and Six SMALL CHAIRS!
SH>E BO ARD with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK
DINING TABLE, SEI I’E E,Two ARM CHAIRS and Six SMALL CHAIRS.’
CCTTAGE SUITE, in WALNUT, comprising SIDEBOARD, with Bevelled
SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK. EXTENSION DINING TABLE
ROOM 'CHAIRS^ 8 ’ SETTEE ’ Two EASY CHAIRS and Six DINING
» smi CHAIIiT Le “ V "’ SK1TI!B - T ' Vo ' ARMOIUIKS.
SUITE, comprising AMERICAN WALNUT SIDEBOARD
BEV E 1 .LED SILVERED PLATE - GLASS BACK, EXTENSION
DINING TABLE with Spare Leaves, COUCH, EASY CHAIR I ADvS
CHAIR, and SIX SMALL CHAIRS (Upholstered in Leather). *
DINNER WAGGONS, in OAK, WALNUT, &c.
match in all sizes.
OVERMANTELS to
SPUING & O’CONNELL STREETS SYDNEY. I
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT A KODAK.
nvn a d e
IN—
FIVE SIZES.
m
FULL the
STRING!
PRESS the
BUTTON!
We Do the Rest!
SIE IN" ID lEOIE IDTEW HTjULTjSTIR.A.TETI) G A.T_A_IE_iOOTJ.IE
IMIOILNrTIEHEj'Y" CIBCTJLAB.
BAKER A#D ROUSE,
375 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY— 37S
r Dire ct l y Opposite SYUKTEY ARCADE
And at 256 Collins-st., Melbourne; 69 Rundle-st,, Adelaide; 46 Queen-st., Brisbane.
SAYWELL & CO.
DEPOT
marvel
TO B A C C O
:E S r S^D
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Unglues, Boilers, €>£ls Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us yith regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
1 rices quoted, and frour enquirie.sdntelligerffly replied to without any deliiy.
IKTSTRUMEIMT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Aiis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
Work Snpdriep, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ «d Arohit.ot.’ s«,ui.ita. in stock, nhatrated Catalogues post FEES.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
Am triton Bitvator.
Mtiiern Sanitary /m-
-firovcincnts. E tot hie
Special a rrcing e-
mtnis /or Famiiivs.
These fihteis contain over 300 A part-,
ments and are highly •retcmimnded /Sy
Australians. The ''Hheakrgs, Exhi-
bitions, Museums Parks, \ Ctlenial
Institute, &*c., a re*easy 0/ access.
_ Road, London. S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete u>Hb every possible oomfort and convenience.
( Managing; Director.
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
ORIGINAL and BEST TONIC. OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER'’EQUALLED,
Maatetrate, write* I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and lam con\inced thatit tea valuable therapeutical ajyent possessed of excellent Tonic properties."
mo,ft? ksi?a n e s 8 TO 'l?* 0 ." Steamship Company, writas:-- For uru.y years I have
mrL! S en whiPi R 1 E ’ and 1 can therefore personally testify to its many oxed eit sirengtbpninr
proputies. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of (h ■ companv mid always
i\ imr «mvo?!L'nTi Cm re ! U to ’ co " sclen t lous, V «> n f, idt ’r it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Drain restorative, a
MS^rT^^N^^^'T q,nre - 1 K ttfi y BU *’ soribc ,ny namo t 0 the msrite of a remedy like
~^„.f*n? I iT a *’ lanC, o Esq '’ w ri l)es Havin V been ft great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number of
>eais, and having used a Number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and m mV c««e all that* is olaim-d for you/
Tonic has been fully borne out, arid I can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted."
N.B.—Want of space preclude* hundred* of similar te*tin»onials from twin? published.
N.D.-MARSH ALL'S TOXIC NERVINE is uHsrrant/d to U almdutdjTfrst from mII Injurious Drags.
On (ini* liveryrrU*re at ti, and a*. o<l. a Uoltl*.
MARSHALL BROS., Sold Malxi^Toturors.
“TALES OFi'THE


The Bulletin
V6l. 13—No. 685.
SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1898,
Price, 6d,
0^
f
THE WHITEWASH AND THE BAUBLE.
THE LAW: — “I’m ’fraid I can’t help splashing that bauble a bit!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ® ®
Half-yearly .. ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... .. ... ... ■ 06 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, ivith whom ice do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
■ topics of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
xj cr the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard, and Diggers'
yews Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inierprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future trill be £l, with Zs. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 1893.
The Looming Railway Steal.
In several of the Australias, notably in Vic-
toria and New South Wales, an agitation is
being steadily and systematically worked up
in favour of the sale of the State railways to
English syndicates, the ostensible purpose
being to relieve the provinces of a vast
burden of foreign debt. In N.S. Wales the
visible apostle of the new “ Rise of the
People ” is, in a sneaking kind of way.
Works Minister Lyne, In Victoria the
scheme is advocated much more openly by
the Age, which puts so much energy into
the cause that it begins to appear as if that
paper spent two years of ink and ferocity in
writing Commissioner Speight out of office
mainly to pave the way for this new depar-
ture. But the opinions of the ordinary
“ respectable ” paper are to be judged even
more by the letters which it publishes in its
correspondence columns than by the views
announced in its leading articles, and it is
noteworthy that the persons who ostensibly
write to the Age on the subject are much
more violent partisans than even the Age
itself. The latest and the most eloquent of
them all is one P. K. M'Caughan, and the
following extracts from his diatribe sum up
the Syme case almost to perfection :
You have sounded the only true key-note to the whole
situation. Sell our railways; that is the remedy. It will
for ever dispose of the railway difficulty; but, what is
better still, it will in one act dispose of our national debt.
I have it on the best possible authority that our system of
railways, properly placed on the London market, could
be syndicated at a price not far short of £50,000,000, or
quite the amount of our entire debt, and that in the
hands of private companies they would be made to pay a
substantial dividend from the start, a dividend far beyond
the average of the railway companies of Great Britain. . .
Private companies would manage them infinitely better
and cheaper than the State : and thus, when yielding
better returns, fares and freights would from time
to time be reduced to foster a greater volume of trade.
What an effect upon ourselves! Free from a Stale
debt [also from a (treat State asset.—Ed. B.], our credit
would become at once restored, and a few millions spent
upon the mallee and other unopened and undeveloped
Crown lands would complete our works, and settle the
people upon the soil. . . Where is there a railway
system in the world in the hands of the State which may
be pointed to as even a qualified success? There is none
in England, nor France, nor Italy, nor in the United
States, and perhaps the citizens of the United States may
be quoted in this connection as the most advanced and
progressive people on earth. Yet they shrewdly foresaw
the necessity of leaving railways to private enterprise.
Nor have their fields gone untilled, nor their settlement
been retarded in consequence. On Ihe contrary, all the
nroduce of the Western Slates and the gigantic wheat
harvests of California, Dakota, Indiana and Illinois arc
transported on private railways to the Atlantic ports at a
price per mile not more than 10 per cent, upon what the
Victorian farmer pays in sending his produce to sea-
board. . . The sale of our railways and the extinguish-
ing of our debt would simply mean renewed credit and
immediate public works in the near future, an important
factor for the working man. . . The general body of
taxpayers would experience a delight beyond the dreams
of imagination if they were relieved from the national
debt as well as from that terrible incubus which, like a
hydra-headed monster, attacks them at every corner.
* » #
The above tawdry gabble is the case
for the prospective railway syndicates—
the entire Syme argument put into a
narrow compass ; and no more imbecile
or hopelessly erratic series of asser-
tions were ever compressed in so small
a space. In the first place, while the rail-
ways of the two provinces are assuredly not
managed to perfection, the assumption that
they are worse managed and, consequently,
less profitable, than private lines in general
is only another form of the ignorant belief in
the beauty of everything that is far off—the
paradise which is waiting for the emigrant
who keeps moving on, the green fields of
Paraguay, and the Heaven that is some-
where among the stars. As a matter of fact,
the State railways of Victoria and New
South Wales pay better than the private
lines of alnpost any country in the world,
and, therefore, the whole argument falls to
the ground with an unholy crash. The
entire theory of the would-be railway-
sellers (a lot of whom may possibly be
among the would-be railway-buyers) and
their following of financiers is based on the
assumption that private enterprise yields
better results than State management —and
it does nothing of the kind. At the present
date, in a time of great and universal depres-
sion, the Victorian and New South Wales lines
pay something like3 '22 per cent, on the capital
invested, while the world’s average is only
about 3’20 per cent., therefore, in reality,
these provinces present an excellent result,
and the wailings of the local Jeremiahs are
quite uncalled for. Moreover, but for the
unusually rapid extension of recent years,
the average would certainly be much better.
The mendacious assertion that no State
system is even a qualified success can be
demolished in a sentence. The most profit-
able railway system, in the world is a State
property—that of South Australia, which
pays 5.32 per cent. ; and no country where
private enterprise controls the means of
locomotion comes even within gunshot range
of this figure. In 1881 the most profitable
railway system on earth —that is to say, the
one which paid the largest percentage on
capital invested—was that of New South
Wales ; and though its record was after-
wards considerably lowered by the burden of
a vast mass of unfinished lines, it is now,
under the efficient management of Commis-
sioner Eddy, rapidly regaining its old pre-
eminence. After South Australia, the next
best results at present are those of India
(where five-sevenths of the lines are State
property), Germany (seven-eighths State pro-
perty), llelgium (three-fourths State pro-
perty), South Africa, where the Government
is practically sole proprietor, and the State
railways of Chili ; and the most profitable
of the private systems then only begin to
appear on the lists. The lying story of the
failure of State ownership can only impose
on the ignorant ; it is private ownership that
has failed, and great, by comparison, is the
failure thereof.
# * *
The promise that the proposed sale will
relieve these provinces of a load of debt is
even more glaringly untrue than the fiction
which preceded it. If the lines are sold and
the national debt is wiped out, the burden
will still remain, and the only probable
alteration is that it will lie heavier than
before. Australia now sends large sums of
money to London to pay interest on her
debentures ; she will then send the money
to the same place to pay dividends to the
railway stock-holders. The country supplies
the money in each case, and the incubus
remains absolutely unaltered—except for the
worse. For if, as is so constantly promised,
the private owners institute an era of
economy, it will be so much the more dis-
astrous for this suffering country. Economy
means that the employes will work longer
hours for less wages, that many of them will
be sent adrift to swell the ranks of the
unemployed, that the spending power of the
balance will be diminished, and that
industrial slavery will pervade the land in a
worse form than ever before. And the
result of the said economy will be that the
lines will yield larger returns, which will go
to the English stockholders, and where
£2,000,000 per annum went out of the
country in interest, £4,000,000 will probably
go out in dividends, and thus the incubus,
instead of being diminished, will be doubled.
The fact that the British syndicate
is going to he strictly economical is
the most solid reason yet advanced
why Australia should have no dealings with
the scheme on any account whatever. The
idea of advancing it as a brilliant argument
in favour of the vaunted monopoly, that the
monopolists will be a skin-flint aggregation
who will leave less money in the country in
the shape of wages, and take out more in
the shape of dividends, is worthy only of a
madman.
• * #
Australia owns, in its railways, an asset
such as no other country possesses, or is
ever likely to possess. Despite the Cas-
SANDRA-like wailings of Syme, concerning
the extravagance of Australian engineers,
the iron roads of this country were built at
a cost 40 per cent, below the world’s average.
With the exception of those of South Africa,
Norway, Sweden and Denmark, the Austra-
lian lines are the cheapest in the world.
They were certainly built on an extravagant
plan, but, compared to the extravagance of
“ private enterprise,” the lavishness dis-
played in this country is of small account.
Australia has more scope for increase of
population than any other land, and with
that increase, and the conversion of the
ruinous 5 per cent, railway - loans, the
profits of the State monopoly must ex-
pand until, some time in the future,
they will probably meet a large per-
centage of the expenses of the Govern-
ment. The inspiration of selling these
stupendous possibilities, and gaining nothing
by the sale except industrial slavery and an
immediate increase of the national burdens,
is so vast an imbecility as only to suggest
mercenary motives on the part of its origin-
ators. The promise of reduced freights
is an obvious delusion, for such concessions
only arise through competition, and when
one syndicate acquires the whole railway
system of a province competition will be
non-existent. In fact, any change in this
direction would, most probably, be for the
Worse, for the syndicate would have no con-
stituents to conciliate in view of a coming
election, and would be amenable to no poli-
tical pressure. Even the garish picture of
the U.S. agriculturist whose grain is carried
at one-tenth the Victorian rates falls parti-
cularly flat as an evidence of the blessings to
come ; the average goods rate in the United
States is not one-tenth, but nearly one-half
that of Victoria and New South Wales, and
the average passenger rate is almost as heavy
as in Australia ; and to attain even these
results many of the railways exist in a con-
dition of chronic insolvency, reconstruction,
reorganisation, and compromise with their
creditors, born of cut-throat competition.
The cheapness which is achieved by the
simple processof “ goingbroke” can be attained
any day in this country by the equally sim-
ple, honest, and efficient process of repudia-
tion. Rail way-wrecking has become a
science in America, and the existence
of one Jay Gould is a greater curse
than a century or more of the worst railway
management which this country has ever
seen. Also one Erie panic or Union Pacific
swindle would probably be found more costly
than even the Cairns contract with the arbi-
tration costs thrown in. And, in any case,
many of the American lines were largely
assisted by land grants, so that they are not,
and never were, instances of private enter-
prise pure and simpk
» * *
It would be also interesting to know how
the politicians who are so utterly unfitted to
be trusted with the control of the State rail-
way system can be trusted to conduct the
sale of that system ; and how the nation
which is incapable of managing its own high-
ways can safely manage the public estate,
which is a vastly larger and more intricate
concern. For the same reason which
demands the sale of the railways equally
demands the farming out of the taxes, the
floating of the Lands Department into a
company, the putting of the whole system of
Government into a limited liability concern
in one million shares, 10s. paid up, the
calling for tenders for military and naval
defence ; and the sale of the Post and
Telegraph Office to the highest bidder.
Also the Age advocates private enterprise
chiefly on account of the alleged dreadful
mismanagement of Speight, and Speight
learned the art of mismanagement under
private enterprise of which he is the
Age’s own shocking example. And, lastly,
it is noteworthy (hat the agitation
for the establishment of a railway
monopoly was never heard of in the days
when the returns were only one and a miser-
able fraction per cent, on the capital in-
vested ; it was not until an obese dividend
ivas practically in sight that the cry went up
that the railways were a burden on the
revenue, and must be got rid of at any cost.
New South Wales and Victoria have both
struggled unaided through the long period
of inevitable loss incident upon the building
of lines with too great haste in an empty
continent, and now that the gap between
revenue and interest on usurious loans has
got down almost to the vanishing-point, and
a handsome profit may be reasonably ex-
pected, the persuasive voice of the sym-
pathetic syndicate is heard in the land, and
the grasping politician weeps tears of blood
over this allegedly overburdened nation.
* # #
As The Bulletin has already said—
Better have a civil war than sell on’e inch of
State railroad.
Paraguayan Prevarications.
“ The Bulletin has been floundering around and goi itself
tird up in a knot over the New Australia movement. First
it located the proposed settlement ‘on the dreary wastes
of La Plata’ ; then it discovered that it w as to be * on the
banks of a river with an impassible liar at its mouth ’;
and finally, in order to show that the settlers might just as
well settle in Hades as in the Argentine, it reprinted, from
a N.Y. paper, an alleged description of a red-hot dusty
day on the Pampas. The Bulletin knows that any such
description applies splendidly to about nine-tenths of Aus-
tralia in the summer lime, and if it doesn't know it the
hushmen do, who smile at these silly attempts to frighten
them, and positively roar with laughter at The Bulletin’s
aptitude for changing localities to suit its argument. We
expect it w ill say next that the settlement is to he in Nova
Scotia or Terra del Fuego.”
Dear Bulletin, —Thus does the modern Moses,
Mr. W. Lane, the boss promoter and chief prophet
of the Paraguay pilgrimage, jibe at The Bulletin
for its alleged ignorance (seemingly shared by the
rest of the human race)of the precise locality in the
vast wilds of South America pitched upon for
tlie projected “New Australia’’ settlement
Will it be believed by the men and women when
this gentleman is inducing to join in his harum
scarum scuttle to South America, that at the yen'
time he was thus reproving The Bulletin foi
wilful ignorance of the locality of his settlement
he, the originator and leader of the movement did
not himself know where his “ Common-wealth ’
was to be located, but was actually locating it
in a region where he now says it was not to be’
Nay, more than this, I lay to the charge of the
accurate and censorious Mr. Lane gross and cul
pable ignorance on this particular matter, and
that, too, at the very time he wrote the words
quoted above. While he and his lieutenants were
appealing to thrifty workers, who had managed
to save at least <£GO out of the wreckage of recent
strikes, to join them in a shaky enterprise, they
had not decided where it was to be put in opera-
tion, and were flatly contradicting each other as to
its precise locality. This is a grave charge to
make against the promoters of such an adventure
involving, as it does, the very lives of those who
are induced to share it, but it is one, however not
made without proof. Here is the evidence
* * m
In December last, no later than the 17th of that
month, Mr. Lane took The Bulletin to task in a
paper entitled New Australia, in the terms set
forth at the heading of this article. In the first
issue of this same broadsheet, dated Nov. 19th
1892, he himself distinctly states that his co-opera-
tive settlement is to be in the Argentine Republic
in these words :
The offer of a large tract of land has been secured from
the Argentine Government. The land is situated in the
southern part of the Argentine, about latitude 38 deg
south—the same Intitude as Maoriland and Victoria. This
part is well watered and timbered, and from it a tract of
over 400,000 acres, granted free of charge, on settlement
conditions, is now being selected by delegates sent out
for the purpose. . . . Letters from the delegates show
that they have been well received by the Argentine
Government, which is giving them all possible assistance
and that the reputation of the locality they are going to
far exceeds their expectations.
In the second issue of this broadsheet, published
on 17th Dee. last (the same, be it borne in mind
in which he accuses The Bulletin of wil-
fully misplacing the locality of his settlement)
Mr. Lane again definitely fixes the site of his
Commonwealth in the Argentine Republic in
these still more precise terms :
After considering every point the Association has sent
an agent to investigate in South America, with the result
that a concession of over 400,000 acres was being secured
from the Argentine Government in land on the Andine
slope, at the head of the waters of the Colorado River, and
not on the Pampas, nor in Patagonia.
' * * *
So much for the chief promoter’s knowledge of
the site of his settlement. He evidently believes
it is to be in the Argentine, and states so definitely
enough. But what say his lieutenants and travel-
lingreeruiters for the “New Australia ’’movement?
Do they agree with him ; if not, do they differ
materially; and if so, what confidence can they
claim from the public in their discretion in
organising and attempting to carry out so momen-
tous an undertaking ? Here is the answer to all
these queries. Replying to a request for infor-
mation, Mr. W. W. Head, one of the “ Pro-
visional Board of Trustees ” of the movement,
and its acting-secretary, writing under date 14th
Jan., 1893, thus flatly contradicts his chief
And when I tell you that the settlement will probably
be in Paraguay, not Argentina, you will see how very
clever some people are. We are not likely to bother
replying to the articles—it isn’t worth while.
It may not, perhaps, be worth the promoter’s
while to reply to adverse press criticism, but it
was surely the duty of such men as Messrs. Head
and Mooney, who have enjoyed the trust and
confidence of the shearers both in prosperity and
adversity, to make sure before using their great
influence to induce men and women to throw in
their lot with the movement, that the chief
promoter knew at least to what part of the world
ho and his followers were going ! Yet here we
have Mr. Head giving Mr. Lane’s version a direct
denial, and Lane roundly rating The Bulletin
for not being well informed upon a subject con-
cerning which he and his followers can’t agree!
# • #
Another official, a paid recruiter of the move-
ment, Mr. Peter M‘Naught, not unknown in
single-tax circles, and “ Master-workman of the
Knights of Labour ’’ in Sydney, has been publicly
contradicting both his superior officers, Messrs
Lane and Hoad, by declaring that the “New
Australia ” settlement is to be neither in Argentina
nor Paraguay, but in Uruguay! So Mr.
M‘Naught in the course of a lectuie delivered by
him in support of the movement in the middle
of January last, at Albury. Then on top
of all this confusing contradiction, the dubious
public is finally assured that the site of the settle-
ment has, at last, been fixed in Paraguay. For
fear of further offending Mr. Lane, I am willing
to assume that it is at last really settled that his
00-operative Commonwealth is to be somewhere
in Paraguay.
* » »
Here, however, a ticklish point crops up which
may or may not —according to the temper of those
who have given themselves and their belongings
as hostages for the fulfilment of Mr. Lane’s idyllic
scheme —develop into a serious legal difficulty.
How many of the subscribers to the movement
have been induced to join and part with their
money on the distinct and reiterated statements
of Mr. Lane, on the public platform and in the
press, that the new Co-operative Commonwealth
was to be set up within the Argentine Republic.
This is a very material and pertinent query, in
more senses than one. In the first place, it was
on the distinct assurance that the site of the
settlement was to be within the limits of Argen-
tina that Mr. Lane, in the issue of New Aus-
tralia of 17th Dee. last, appealed to members to
send along the balance of the ‘ tenners ’ ’’—the
preliminary instalment of the total subscription
of £(>o per head. Now, it is quite possible that a
good many of the folk would not object to become
pecuniary participators in a socialistic scheme to
be tried in the comparatively settled and safe-
guarded Argentine Republic, who might, with
good reason, object to share in n similar experi-
ment in the comparatively unsettled and Indian-
infested land of Paraguay. They might object
to proceed further in this projected pilgrimage to
Paraguay, and claim to have refunded to them in
full all moneys deposited by them in the hands of
the promoters of the scheme, on the ground that i
had been, wittingly or unwittingly, obtained
under conditions which have been violated. *
could, if called upon, give some very valid reasons
why settlement in Argentina is to be preferred to
settlement in Paraguay, but will refrain, and con-
tent myself with asking Messrs. Lane and bo.
whether they have taken into consideration th
aspect of the case above hinted at? If so, ar
they prepared to refund their money to those who,
while perfectly willing to adventure their
and fortunes in a co-operative scheme in Argen-
tina, will absolutely decline to make the ventur
in Paraguay ? This question is well worth con-
sideration. —Yours, &c., Old Australia.


Marriott Watson, the Victorian■ Maori*
lander, has just made a big score with his new
story, “ The Naiad.”
Arnold Movley, <>f the Gladstone Govern-
ment, is said to bo an atheist out of sheer disgust
for tho “piety” of his late father, Sam Morley,
the.hosier.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
New South Wales Retrenchment.
Thk profound respect of the Australian for
nvbody who is useless and wears a uniform
was brilliantly exemplified in New South Wales
Assembly last week when the Estimates came
on for discussion. The Retrenchment Party
was practically in possession of the House, and
when once the items affecting the Governor
were passed, it proceeded to abbreviate almost
everybody’s salary remorselessly. The Presi-
dent of the Council —appropriate name, Lackey!
__was righteously docked to £lOOO per annum.
The Chairman of Committees in each House,
the Speaker of the Assembly, most of the
clerks, and the two stablemen were reduced or
abolished. But the motion to reduce the Usher
of the Black Rod was rejected with horror and
a majority of four. Yet the Usher is an indi-
vidual who could be altogether omitted without
anybody missing him. He has practically
nothing to do, except stand around and
look pompous, and be the visible emblem
of the Council’s majesty. He has never,
like the Sergeant-at-Arms, to throw out
any disorderly member, for nobody in
the Council has wind enough to be seriously
disorderly, and if any councillor were
thrown out the shock would probably be
fatal. Now and then the Usher summons the
Assembly to come and meet the Governor, but
any active small boy could convey the message
equally well. His only claim to respect and
£428 per annum is that he wears a look of
intense dignity for three or four hours each
night, on about three nights a week; and for
six months or so in the year. If he and the
Sergeant-at-arms were both abolished, and one
big and reasonably sober policeman put on at
£4 a week to fill the combined billet, the result
would be all that could be required. Evidently
the Retrenchment-party lacks the courage of
its convictions when it failed to make an effec-
tive attack on this gilded phantom, and that
being the case there is a chance now for some-
body to form a new organisation, and call it the
Skinflint-party, after the Maoriland fashion.
The Retrenchment-party is tlxe executioner
with his axe stalking behind the Government
to keep it up to its work. But, unless some-
body comes behind the executioner with another
axe he is apt to grow negligent, and a Sk-inflint-
party is just what is wanted for the purpose.
A Coming* Knock-Out.
From Monday next'the Argus will be offered
for sale at that modest penny to which all daily
newspapers must shortly come. The effect of
cheap Argus upon the general public of Vic-
toria may be a revelation to careless readers of
the Age, who have always associated the journal
they didn’t support with principles of which
they could never approve. But the more en-
lightened minority, already alive to the im-
proved condition of the Tory organ’s tone, will
accept its sudden bound into popularity as a
matter of course. As gradually as the Age has
proved false to its early professions of Radical-
ism, so has the Argus, in its declining days of
twopence, begun to develope a healthy tendency
to lead opinion. Its policy of opposition to the
Age and all things appertaining thereto led it,
in the first instance, to take the right side in
the notorious Premier Building Association
scandal, a scandal which involved old friends
and a “ blood relation ” of David Syme. As
subsequent financial misdoings came to light
under the Munro-Shiels regime, the political
interest of the Argus lay almost invariably in
the direction of honest enquiry, whilst the Age
was ever shirking its duty, if not endeavouring
to excuse the shufl ngs of its ministerial
creatures. The Conservative journal, moreover,
took up its new role of scandal - exposer so
heartily that it could fairly claim to be subor-
dinating its political interests to considerations
of the public weal. It was the Argus that
howled against Munro’s shameful self-appoint-
ment to the Agent-Generalship, advocated a
second trial of that rascal G. N. Taylor,
agitated for the indictment of broken bank
in general, and showed up the pro-
posed “Tom Bent” railway scheme. And it
trill be left to the Argus to defend State-
ownership of the railways against the clumsy
“ syndicate ” suggestions of the so-called Radi-
cal daily. Never did an ancient organ of the
classes bid for the patronage of the masses
under conditions so favourable as those that
have been prepared for the Argus by the over-
reaching tactics of its rival. The Age has
worked for David Syme alone such time
as the Argus has undoubtedly been something
better than a reckless player of the proprietors’
game. Whether the latter journal deserves
much or little credit, or no credit at all, for
assuming the character of purist in these dirty
fays and mortally offending many old Tory
admirers who favour “silence for the sake of
. country,” is a question beside the penny
P°, • Readers of newspapers seldom try to
f? '’ e laddies of that sort, and when they find
nat the Argus gives them what they just now
same P rice as the Age offers them
• l lo .y don’t want, they will take thealarm-
H, g ' ''educed article. If the Argus caters
wiiTr. * or i ncrease d circulation the Age
ii nave to choose between Republicanism or
e * tre ! ne other thing, and the other
- treimty is the more likely to suit the Mr.
m i' 11 * ’^T ME °I to-day. Then the thorough
; d complete conversion of the Argus may be
. . for - It will sacrifice its rabid Freetrade
1 inciplcs to a patriotic desire for Federation,
< learn to discover good in all things—not
excluding the working-man.
lii e big salaries and tremendous prospective
In*] 810118 Australian Supreme Court
. • S°s are given to secure the undivided atten-
„ . . °* those officials and to protect them
's,amst external wrong. Yet it is well-known
Hn. 1 ni °i re lan one '* wdge is up to his neck in
anciai trouble over land and share specula-
„■ s ‘ .It should, in future, bo a condition of
' ceptnig a Supreme Court seat that the
; ppomteo sell out every share held by him and
< m take to buy no more while on the Bench ;
J ®°i ! at be undertake never to speculate in
c i.e. y to buy anything for which he cannot
pay cash. Any man with an income of say ■
£2500 a year and a prospective pension of over
£l5OO should be in clover, so far as money goes.
If he can’t live independently under such circum-
stances he should not accept appointment to the
Bench. The mind of a Judge should be as easy
in regard to filthy lucre as that of the ideal
clergyman — the man who, like Fenelon, dies,
“ without money and without debts.”
Concerning the cry about the mismanaged.
State railways of Australia there is one thing
worth noting—it is only on a State railway that,
the mismanagement constantly comes to light.
The State railway is perpetually being over-
hauled and inquired into by members of Parlia-
ment, by Parliamentary commissions, and by
candidates for seats in the Legislature, and it is.
always being held up on the pitchfork of
derision by the Opposition as a means of wiping
out the Government. The private railway, on
the other hand, is a close corporation; the
directors generally hold their seats for life by
dint of private influence and multitudinous,
proxies; the shareholders, even if things are
very far wrong, have seldom any desire for an
exposure which would depreciate the value of
their property; and, except when a private
line goes bankrupt, its affairs never become
public property. The record of fatal accidents
is almost the only one by which the relative
mismanagement can be judged, and it presents
a ghastly commentary on the consequences of
private enterprise. Moreover, the advantages i
of private railway management in Australia in (
the future can be gauged with reasonable'
accuracy by the advantages of private bank '
management in the past. The same gang of
financiers will be “on the job,” to water the :
stock, and cook the balance-sheets, and “ fake”
things for the benefit of themselves and their j
relatives, and get up booms with the same
inevitable smash at the end of them.
One is led to suppose that Matthew Davies’s
counsel has instructions to “take it out ” of
Graham Berry for being a nominal party to
the Mercantile Bank prosecution. Theodore
Fink, appearing for Davies, extracted from a
leading witness the fact that Berry had cut
out a suspicious-looking paragraph from the
Mercantile’s famous last report. Anon Fink
obtained the further information that Berry
was the only director who tried to get quit of
shares at the last minute. Following up this
point the counsel for Davies said : “ You heard
Sir Graham Berry speak at the meeting. Did
you hear him express surprise at shares being
sold, and ask them as common-sense men to
demonstrate their confidence, and stand by an
institution doing a safe and solid business ?” To
which witness replied that “ho did hear some-
thing like it.” .Seeing that Graham Berry’s
remarkable inconsistency of conduct has nothing
to do with the case in hand, it is hard to account
for the questions put by counsel Fink except
on the theory that they were intended to make
things warm for the London ex-director who
isn’t included in the indictment.
Dear Bulletin, —Possibly the best means to
avert, or at least minimise, the impending defeat
of the New South Wales Labour-party at next
general election, would be the nomination by
the Labour Leagues of the strongest democratic
men obtainable in each constituency, irrespec*
tive of fiscal creed or their position in life. The
nomination of members of the League only—
the fear of any who are not hand-workers (a
sure sign of weakness) —has disfranchised many
a Democratic constituency. For instance, who
could better represent the Labour interest for
South Sydney than that brainy barrister, son
of the soil and of the people, Walter Edmunds?
Yet his defeat at last general election was
brought about by the antagonism of the local
Labour Electoral League, whose own candidates
were beaten from their very weakness. At the
recent bye-election the case was the same. The
electors demand strong, intelligent men—not
those of the frothy, blatant order. There are
many hundreds, thousands, outside the Leagues
and the ranks of “ Labour,” whose whole heart
and soul is with the Democratic cause. The
present system of nomination would debar a
Higinbotham, a Grey, or a Lilley from repre-
senting Labour in the New South Wales Par-
liament. Is it not a fact that there are now
many rpembers just as worthily representing
Labour in the House (and who were opposed
by the Leagues at last election) as the Labour-
party generally?—Yours, F.T.
The British House of Commons has decided,
by a majority of 47, in favour of payment of
members, and a bill establishing the new system
is to be introduced immediately. This is the
beginning of a new revolution in Bull-land.
When the bill passes, the Democratic party will
no longer be compelled to elect the squire and
the big manufacturer of great circumference to
represent them because men of their own class
cannot stand the expense. When the new
party is formed the old, dull, massive Liberals
will begin to drift away towards the Tories as a
protest against the horrid innovation. And
then there will probably be, in the Com-
mons, at least five separate sections—the
ancient and absolutely incurable Tories; the
old Liberals who won’t call themselves Tories.,
but who loathe and won’t associate with the
beastly Democrats ; the newer Liberals, largely
made up of “ progressive” baronets and aristo-
crats of the Haroourt stamp, who preach
Democracy and vote it to a certain extent, but
who won’t associate with the Democrats either,
they and the Democrats forming one ostensible
party that is cleft in two where the felt-hats
ends and the bell-toppers begin ; the Demo-
cratic party ; and the Irish party. And among
all these there will be some exciting times
ahead for the machine of Party Government,
and the days of that venerable object are
probably growing short.
Somebody has invented a penny-in-the-slot
machine on an entirely new basis : you don’t
put a penny in the machine, but on certain con-
ditions you get one out. The weapon has a
crank attached, and any individual who wants
money can seize this and give it a hundred
turns, whereupon the automaton solemnly pro-
duces one copper. If he wants a very good
breakfast he can give it 1200 turns and get
twelve coppers. The crank is attached to an
electric machine, and the energy for which the
owner pays a penny produces electricity which
realises, for lighting purposes, somewhere about
fourpence. Thus the profits are 300 per cent.,
and the motive-power never fails—there is
always some poor wretch pegging away at the
crank to earn his penny. It is cheaper than
steam-power, horse-power, and most other
forms of energy—also it is more regular. Pos-
sibly there is a time not far ahead when every
factory, theatre, and warehouse will have its
crank outside, and homeless waifs will grind
away at it all day and far into the night for
board and lodging; and when every sheep-station
will have one attached, and the swagman will
turn it for rations. There should be a stupend-
ous future for this invention.
Apropos the recently-cabled Italian objections
to the Australian anti - pauper - immigration
movement, “Joe” Chamberlain,' M.P.
(England), relates that when in Rome he asked
a contractor what wages he paid his work-
people :
“Well,” he said, “ I, as you know, am an American
and we like to have very good work in our buildings.
Therefore I am paying extra wages. We are paying 3
francs—that is 2s. 3d.—a day for builders, and francs
—that is Is. Id. or Is. ltd. - a day for labourers.”
“ Well,” I said, “ that seems very low.” “ Yes,” he said,
“ it may seem so to you, but they think it is paradise—
(laughter)—and there are at this time thousands and tens
of thousands of people in Rome who would be only too
glad to get a franc a day.” “ Well,” I said to him, “ how
long do they work?” He said, “That is a difficulty
with us.” “ Oh,” I said, “ You have got the same ques-
tion with you that we have in England—the eight hours
question.” “ No,” he said, “it is quite a different ques
tion.” I make a rule that they shall not work more than
ten hours a day—(laughter)-and on that they complain
most bitterly, for they say, ‘ What is the use of good light
if you can’t work as long as the sun is shining?”
Just the sort of slave that the Australian
“National” Associations would like to indent
by the hundred !
Thus an English constitutional authority :
Our colonial governors are always intelligent because
they have to live by a difficult trade ; they are nearly
sure to be impartial because they come from the ends of
the earth ; they are nearly sure not to participate in the
selfish desires of any colonial class or body, for long
before these desires can have attained fruition thev will
have passad to the other end of the world ; be busy with
other faces and minds, almost out of hearing what
happens in a region they have half forgotten. A colonial
governor is a super-parliamentary authority, animated by
a wisdom which is probably in quantity considerable, and
is different from that of the local Parliament. But the
advantage of this extrinsic authority is purchased at a
heavy price—a price which must not be made light of,
because it is often worth paying. A colonial governor is
a ruler who has no permanent interest in the colony he
governs; who, perhaps, had to look for it on the map when
he was sent thither; who takes years before he really
understands its parties and its controversies; who, though
without prejudice himself, is apt to be a slave to the
prejudices of local persons near him ; who inevitably, and
almost laudably governs, notin the interest of the colony,
which he may mistake, but in his own interest, which lie
sees and is sure of. The first desire of a colonial governor
is not to get into a “ scrape,” not to do anything which
may give trouble to his superiors - the Colonial Office—at
home, which may cause an untimely and dubious recall,
which may hurt his after career. lie is sure to leave upon
the colony the feeling that they have a ruler who only half
knew them, and does not so much as half care for them.
We hardly appreciate this feeling in our colonies, because
we appoint their sovereign ; bub we should understand it
in an instant if, by some political metamorphosis, the
choice were turned the other way—if they appointed owr
sovereign. We would say at once, “How is it possible a
man from N.S. Wales can understand England? how is it
possible that a man longing to get back to the antipodes
can care for England? how can we trust one who lives by
the fluctuating favour of a distant authority ? how can we
heartily obey one who is but a foreigner with the accident
of an identical language ?
“ An elderly man styling himself a journalist ”
seems to have written a biography of “Butcher”
Clarke, the father of Baronet W. J., to whom
the manuscript was submitted for approval.
One brief chapter should be sufficient for the
story of William and Joe Clarke’s progenitor.
He was born. He began life as a butcher, and
ended it as a wealthy savage, who snorted at
every kind of drinking-vessel other than a
pannikin, and held tenaciously to the doctrine
that fingers were made before forks. A few
decorative lies are told about big Butcher
Clarke and his ideas of what the boys would
do with his money, but the same lies have been
hitched on to hundreds of prosaic money-
grubbers before him. If the “old man’s”
career had offered even a shadow of an excuse
for a biography, his titled first-born would long
ere this have hired somebody to produce the
narrative in a handsome crimson-and-gold bind-
ing—but it didn’t. Therefore, the debaubled
millionaire showed good discretion in leaving
this elderly person’s manuscript severely alone,
instead of buying it to shove behind the fire, as
he was probably expected to do. Otherwise
he would soon have had somebody staggering
round to his desirable family mansion with a
bulky biography of Mrs. Clara Parker, or an
exhaustive treatise on brother Joe, or an essay
on the Birth of Victorian Aristocracy, and his
declining years might have been embittered by
the discovery that the pen of an aggressive
family historian is sharper than a serpent’s
tooth.
+.
Ti-Chack, Chinese vice-consul at Cooktown
(N.Q.), tells a N.Q. Register man that China
resents the breach of international laws prac-
tised by the U.S. and Australia against Chinese,
and prophesies:—
The awakening change is coming, and within another
20 years China will he powerful enough on her herder
lands and bounding seas to command the respect of all
nations. Confucius tells us that the time will come when
there shall be but one sun and one moon for all the world ;
one of your great writers has predicted that the most’
momentous fight in the history of the world will be that
between the Russians and Chinese in which the latter will
prevail, the Anglo-Saxon race going down before the
conquerors who will then rule the world. The fulfilment
of that prediction may not come within a century, but
the Australians and Americans by their unjust seclusion
and oppression, and the Russians and British by their
unprincipled encroachments, are precipitating the time
when China, after developing its vast resources and con-
solidating its enormous power, must turn at bay, rend its
persecutors, purge its borders and accomplish its destiny.
. . . . Mark my words, although it is not going to be
represented by a frigate at Chicago, the fleet of China is
being rapidly increased, and next generation will s e the
dragon flag carried as creditably and floating as proudly
on the waters of the world, as those of the lions, ca des
bears and slars.
All the more reason why Australia should
keep out the Chinese.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at _this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Bank-clerk ” : “ Embezzlements are often pro-
voked, because indebted clerks can’t raise a loan without
being gibbeted in a Trades Circular.” The Scotchman
who always invented an excuse for his drunkenness once
broke out because his “ vvhustling canairee was dead.”
So the embezzler finds a million excuses for his thievery
whenever he wants to thieve. We now almost admire the
thief who will own up that he stole because he chose to.
5.8.” (Fitzroy, Vic.); A commonplace tragedy, told
with a droning halt. Your male suicided silently and
xt , txr no s '” n ’ that ' a a 11.... “ Quonow” (Lismore,
N.S.W.): See answer already given anent the Judge and
the sawmill.... “Novice ” : Podgy pars,, stuffed with
sawdust.... “Ole Bill ” ; (X) You can’t palm off the tele-
graph-instrument yarn. The electric sparks are seen on
the “ arrester,” which isn’t near the battery cells ; its use
is to take the slop-over lightning straight to “earth ” per
shortest cut, thus diverting it from the battery. Don’t
fool around scientific mysteries without first getting the
ABC of them. (2) Wild-turkey yarn too tame....
“ Eltha” (Perth, W.A.); “Rhyming Alphabet” snaplcss.
■■• ■ “ The Prooshan ” : Will read the two. Don’t remem-
ber “The Last Boat” or the others.... “J.F.”: Don’t
mark your matter “Printer’s MS.,” but simply “MS.”
You see, it may never reach the printer ...“Clement
Cluse (X) Both your “perfectly original” suggestions
sound “English ” and familiar. (2) Cannot find present
trace cf your story....“ Basso ” (Bathurst. N.S.W.): It
may or may not be a refinement of cruelty to furnish the
scaffold in Bathurst Gaol with a fine window-view of
‘ beautiful undulating hills,” and of the meandering
willow-banked” Macquarie, but it’s all a matter of
taste on the part of the man to be “ worked off. ” The
Bulletin objects to hanging anyhow and everyhow,
w hether in gloom with a horror-cho u', or in sunshine
with festival accompaniments. The accessories are minor
points; the corpse-making is everything....“ Bluey ”
(Orange, N.S.W.): Your humour reads like the sigh of a
sore bellows.... “Snoozer” (Goulburn, N S.W.): An
application for the phonographing of a stupid joke...
“ Laoc llenim " : “ Which books are the best for the
learning of English composition”? We can only say—
read good authors, such as Goldsmith, Thackeray, Lamb,
Macaulay, and Ambrose Bierce of San Francisco
“ Mnlga Ned ” ; May possibly lick into brevity “devil-
< octor ” yarn... “ Tor acco ” : The sum total isn’t much.
Jj>hn Wintle”; W.P.8., with other stale weaknesses
••“The Broker” (Maryborough, Q.): Read your
“ po< in ” to the Kanakas and give ’em nostalgia....
“A.T.1!.” (Auckland, M.L.): Botli commonplace, though
“ True to Bob” bad a chirpy'jingle. We say “had” ; it
belli in the wicker tomb.G.H.S.” (Vic.): We heard
the story of the drowned fowls in the cellar and the land-
lord s brutal retort, “Why don’t you keep ducks?" ever
so many centuries ago—before we were born, we think.
...“Sandfly” (Wellington, M.L.): Not even a maudlin
delirium. Get properly' drunk and try again.. ;,“E.
Jenkins”; Out of date n0w.... “Subscriber” (Albury):
Nothing in the utterances to note; we know a half-
parrot which would have done belter .. “O.
Cat on ” ; When we start a new paper (in some other stage
of existence) weM call it the Deiianged Liver. ... “ H.M.”:
A J. P. is a magistrate and can sit alone where the law
does not specially provide otherwise. (2) He or she who
makes such a false declaration is punishable by law, but
the marriage holds good whether or not contracted with-
out parents’ consent.... “ M.M.X.” : Let the future take
care of itself. Enough for the day are the newspapers
thereof... Violet B.” : New Orleans too far away for us.
....“ILL.” (Melb.): Dealt with, unfortunately', last
week... “The P.” : “Tig” will d 0.... “ Whyha ” :
Address?.. “Takutha ” : “Cold water is Iheonly cure.”
• ...“Chief Judas”; Good idea for illustration....” In
Mem.” ; We don’t joke about such things any more. The
poor wretch meant it from the bottom of her heart.
“J.Q.T.”: Thanks....“ N.” (Waratah); Mournful and
eminently improbable...." Aramanga ” : Inferior cow-
narrative. What do you mean, for instance, liy “The
cow beneath him raves?” Does she rave in English, or in
cow, or how? .. “ VV. Lyell ” : “Byron on a dog” is
good verse, but what we would prefer is yourself on a
dog. Though, for that matter, there’s no urgent demand
for anybody on a d0g.... “ Bluegrass ”: Nobody ever
reads great monoliths of stony literature like that...
“G.T.8.” (Bundaberg): The Bulletin suggested that
reform long ago.. . “E.D." (Sydney): Submitted to
artist “D.S.” (Sydney): Declined. You adhere too
closely to the hard-boiled truth, and truth neat is
seldom interesting “Treat it with Contempt"
(Balmain): The ninetieth bad joke about Gov. Duff
“ J.D.K. (East Melb.): Thanks. It shall be attended to.
“A.H.D.” (Brisbane): Good jingle, but sadly wanting in
sense ; sounds just like a distant cow-bell ringing in
Hebrew.... “ Banga Jim ” : The Salvationist who wanted
the Lord to fall right through the roof is a very old nigger
wheeze—“ Daniel" : Will use.. ..“Nemo”: We never
met any poetry like it before. You must have corns on
your think after writing it “Allan B.”: We are
pleased to gratify your unhealthy curiosity. Your item
tore three times and then fell into a basket “ Queens-
lander ” : The Labour-party’s dissensions are not hopeless
unless you choose to make them so. You seem to forget
that there are dissensions—lots of them—in every party.
“ Old Hiram”: Quite right. The new bank agree-
ment is a form of exorcism. In the old days they' exor-
cised devils ; now they exorcise depositors.’... “ No. 7” :
You tell your story in jumps and short, bloodthirsty
barks. For instance ; “She spits upon him! She flogs
him with green-hide ! The flames grill his wounds ! He
drags the plough! She chains him with the cattle!
She gives him bay to eat ! " You mustn’t champ
your dripping jaws like that in this paper
“Napoleon”: Don’t remember them “A.A.8.”: Lot-
tery genuine enough....“ J.H.M.” : Thanks,., “M.J.T.”
(Melbourne): “ Old King Gold ”is too plainly a borrowed
inspiration... “W’urlie” (Adelaide): Well written, but
nobody' could excite interest in such a plot “A.S.”
(Napier, M.L.); An exploded theory. Battles are often
followed by' rain ; so are funerals, picnics, births, insol-
vencies, dog-fights, and bun-struggles. But none of them
cause rain .. “ Ghost ” : Our opinion is that the missing
gentleman chased himself to the edge of the world and
fell over among the stars, or else he talked himself to
death in Sanscrit “T.A.8.”: Many thanks... “Way
Goldie ” : Can’t spare you two columns in which to “poke
borak” at your enemy’s feet “Drover" (Bun-
dana): Remember something of the kind. Can you
fix or approximate the date? “A Man": (X) An
officer named Carey, a lieutenant or captain, was
with the “Prince Imperial” when the latter was
assegaied. (2) A simple case of sauve qui pent. Had the
Prince been a common trooper, there would have been
no fuss. . ..“Maros” (Townsville): You simply write
yourself down a new-chum.. “Bluegrass”: In what
part of “ the Downs” are travellers under the necessity
of feeding their horses on tree tops? “ The Tuen ” : A
snake-story that relies on the snake losing flat-files and
axe-blades in its hollow-teeth, is too tame for these
columns. . “Frank B- Untouched by “Touched”
—the lay lies in the W.P.B “S.WS.”: Translated
into a par “The Chiel ” (Dandaloo, N.S.W.): Evapor-
ated to confection consistency... “C.H.S.”: Unable to
make use of “The Professor.” “C.11.C.” (N.S.W.): (X)
“ Our Clever Chinkie,” a commonplace incident hideously
jingled. (2) Sea yarns also unsuitable “J.A.W.”
(Rochester, Vic.): Your “original sketch” discredits ita-
birthplace. Irishmen in Australia don’t usually say “ yer
Haulier” to a post-clerk, but want to break his skull in as
a “ time-o’-day ” token. Besides, who ever heard of a man
in Australia sending his wife in Ireland a P. 0.0. forbs.?
“ A.C.C.” : The commercial depression cheapens women
as well as other commodities.... “ Bundarrama ” : Decent
verse, but a bad subject; the market for the old man who
is dreaming of his vanished youth is flat.... “ A.C. ” :
Below your usual standard “VV.J.O.” (Melb.); The
Bulletin awaits developments in the case ere expressing
an opinion as to the value of the medical evidence
“ Gumsucker ”: Too perfervid to have any effect in print,
save one directly opposite to that intended. But your
letter carries conviction with it,... “ H.F.8.” : “ For the
Term of His Natural Life” was first published in the
Australian Journal, as a serial, X 7 or 18 years ago.
“E Hoa ” : Hackneyed, likewise knock-kneed... , “M.’*
(Burwood): We don’t like publishing such good verse
without author’s name and address appended. It dis-
counts originality. “A Dog and a Wife” might have
been written anywhere, at any time of the world’s history.
His not only necessary to be original—one must also
seem original— “ A.H.F.”: Paltry and looks spiteful
“ Hurtle” (N.Q.): Thanks. Re hashed “Parasite”;
Thanks.


IT LEADS THEM ALL.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to. and in.
eluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1802, were as follows
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS are
£35,900.000; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE REST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZEOTIE, General Manager.
principal (Agency—l3l <gitt Street, (Sydney, S-&W-
Branches—473 Collins Street. Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street. Brisbane.
TheWhiteHgrs«telUr.
■a-ira-nrca
The Old Blend
Whisky
%iteH° rse
WHI |P Cellar
-sBBRSBSP*
[?]
84G Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
29th March, 1893.
Mv Dear Moorabxnda—
An edifying incident occurred in a gilded Sydney
theatre, the other evening. A rival theatrical
manager was seated in all his glory alone in a
stage-box when the leading lady made a stumble
in her English—as a matter of detail said “ For
who?” Upon which the rival Snap in the stage-
box called out in a kind of prompter’s growl “for
whom? for whom ? ” Everybody heard him—and
didn’t the people on the stage look gratified !
Miss Ackerman, the well-advertised Blue
Ribbon lady, who has left the “good work” here
and has made tracks for Chicago, is, I believe, the
genius who thought out those comical cups of tea
with bread and-butter for the unsober men who
get into prison from Saturday to Monday. An
essentially feminine idea ; to offer a cup of tea to
a man with a “ head,” and a “ throat ” that seems
to reach from his ears to his belt—as a man said
in explaining his sensations to me on.ee. He also
Remarked (I never forget useful facts) that tea was
the least effectual restorer you, can get. If is
notion was Worcester sauce.
Sydney Liedertafel gave another of its interest'
ing concerts at Sydney Town Hall last week, and
the drenching rain didn’t detract m,uch from the
numerical success of the occasion. The failure
Was “Salamis,” presented to the Society by an
ipartistic and, upon his own confession, unmusical
njillionairq; and though the Society struggled
gamely with the stolid conippsition, it isn’t pro-
bable that the “opus” will raise its eldritch shriek
in Sydney again. The flatness of the thing shoujd,
be a warning to portly plutocrats in general to
give cash donations only for the advancement of
the fine arts.
The Liedertafel larks got through their part of
the programme with much success, and quite
deserved that Miss Ada Crossley, of Melbourne,
should bo associated with the affair. Miss
Crossley wore a cream-coloured frock and sang
Gounod’s “The Warbler”—her biggest item —
with much flexibility and dramatic force. Mrs.
French and the ’tafel orchestra further helped to
elongate the programme, which most of the
audience sat out, despite the fact that the rain came
through and a few people on the ground-floor had
to put their gamps up ! I couldn’t help thinking
what a sensation those umbrellas would have
caused had the affair been a prayer-for-rain
meeting.
Aprofos of music, have you remarked that (in
print, at least) people don’t sing any more? They
“render,” “interpret,” “give new readings,”
“vocalize,” and so on, as long as you like, but
they don’t sing. It is vulgar, seemingly, to sing
—it is a tiling no long-trained soprano or fierce-
moustached tenor is ever guilty of doing in print.
These poor ignorant people may be pining to sing,
only a dilettante press won’t hear of it. Nobody
of culchaw employs one syllable when it is possible
to express oneself in three.
An incident with a moral in it occurred down
South the other day, when the proprietor (a
bald, much - married and altogether represen-
tative man) of a fashionable jewellery-establish-
raent discovered that one of his salesmen
had appropriated a quantity of jewellery where-
with to adorn the chorus-girl of his heart. To
recover the valuables without fuss, the merchant
hit on the fool hardy plan of going to the syren
and demanding the things baclc, but when he got
there the wiles of the dancing-girl operated so on
his susceptible heart that she not only kept the
jewellery she had got, but obtained a good deal more
from the firm. Inflammable old gentlemen, bald
on the top, ought always to communicate with
lovely chorus-girls per medium of beauty-proof
lawyers.
Some Englishmen have very crude ideas as to
what may happen to them in this awful country.
A larky girl who spent the summer at Bowral tells
of a solemn and affrighted English youth who took
a run out from Home. He was so prim and
startled-looking that she set out to flirt with him
on the broadest methods, and one moonlit evening,
on the verandah, she reached the climax of gush-
ingly keeping a seat free for dear Mr. Blank, who
really must sit next to her all the evening. But
at this juncture the startled son of Albion drew
hjs host aside and told him in a hoarse voice that
the thing had gone far enough. “ I don’t know
where she’ll stop, dontcherknow, old chap,” In
said, helplessly. “They told me, coming out on
the steamah, that the Australian girls propose to
a fellah —and that would be so doosid awkward,
dontcherknow.” He went back ’Ome per next
boat—driven out of the country by fear of the
matrimonial tendencies of Australian femininity.
But supposing, for the sake of argument, that
local belledom really is minded to observe Leap
Year all the time —there is a similar indictment
against English women too. A well-gilt lawyer,
who recently had a run to Europe, told me that a
perfect lady proposed to him in the hunting-field
after an acquaintance of fifteen minutes! She
was a fashionable widow, with advanced views on
the relations between the sexes, and she simply
rode up to him and said, coolly, “Don’t you think
with your money and mine we would be jolly
happy together?” But the wary youth from
Australia didn’t see it in that light, and the
dashing widow probably soothed her wounded
feelings, if she had any, by telling her cronies that
she had actually refused poor dear Mr. Parchment
three times !
I am told that that dusky hobbledehoy, the new
King of Tonga, is more Indian than Tongan in
appearance, and also scowls as readily as an Eng-
lish bull-dog. The new kinglet, in his childhood’s
days, was always carried about astride the sway-
ing hip of one of his numerous nurse-nlaids, and
always attended by eight little boys with their
heads shaved, save one little scalp-lock left hafidy
in case the embryotic ruler wanted to tear some-
thing, His welter-weight mother —Whose arm
was bigger round the top than an average woman’s
waist, enjoyed the aesthetic pet name of “The
Rotten Banana.” Also, she was extremely sweet
on the V-shaped robes of a higher civilisation.
The nature of the woman who weighs forty-two
ozs. to the pound evidently does not alter with the
colour of the skin.
There was a full circle for the first night of
“ Carmen Up to Data.” Miss May Manning, in
the front row, wore a light-coloured gauzy gown,
with diamond ornaments, which become her very
well, and was about the prettiest frock I saw.
Gaiety circles have such a strong masculine
element that (rocks don’t grow in every seat, as a
rule. And if the circle was over-manned the
stage wasn’t in “Carmen,” where only five
men to 17 women figure on the bill! Surely the
she-suffragists should patronise the drama in
droves and flocks !
I am told that at the Auckland (M.L.) vice-
regal residence all the work in the grounds is
done by convict labour—a gang of men from the
gaol working there regularly. Which reminds
me that I was passing Darlinghurst Gaol one hot
morning recently, and there was a sentry, his
rifle leaning against the netting while he slowly
quaffed, a long, cool and apparently delicious
amber drink. It really seemed as if that was part
of the punishment to the poor prisoners down
below. It was Tantalus designed in broad arrows.
Madame Ruppert, the. prophetess of female
beauty, who has a natty consulting-room up-
stairs at Sydney Strand, must be gladdened
by the quick sale of her world-famed tonic,,
which, I hear from private sources, really
has a good effect on the skin. For people who
prefer a fresh complexion every day Madame
Ruppert’s enamel has a very successful effect.
There are a number of people upon whom, I would
like to force this enamel, were I quite sure they
wouldn’t utterly misconstrue my friendly motives.
A child administered a very neat rebuke tp a
bagman the other day. He (the bagman) was re-
counting one of his most racy stories at a cus-
tomer’s table to everybody’s amusement, the
author’s guffaw rising loudest of all, when a little
boy of three who was present looked up in his
face and said slowly and solemnly : “ Ha ! ha !
ha! yon (popular Australian adjective) fool !”-
“ Out of the months of babes and sucklings ” here
fits in beautifully.
Have yon, ever noticed it ? You can always tell
in a wink whether the amateur composer of a
piece of music is a woman or not —for, if she is,
she advertises the fact on the front page. The
more careless evolver of harmony usually signs a
couple of non-committal initials—but your female
Beethoven spells it out for you, “The Hug Me
Close Waltz, by Mary Jane Boggs.”
I have been reading a newspaper account of the
essay on “The Political Situation,” read by a lady
before Sydney Unitarian Literary Society, the
other evening. It seems to me that the very
easiest way to obliterate the emancipated
female’s chance of shaking a loose leg is to always
report her in full in the first person, and with her
ear-mark prominently affixed to all her perpetra-
tions.
Alice Leamar’s newest frock in “Carmen
Up to Data”, is pink and ruby. The airy
Lethbridge repeats herself, sartorially, but the
black-and-yellow silk dress stands much resur-
recting ; so does the white-and-silver rjg-out
in which she serpentines through the cigarette,
dance. Miss Roze, an American, as Esca-
millo, wears a red wig and seemed to warm the
house in her red-and-silver suit, with a St.
Patrick’s Day necktie. But the fair and jovial
Aggie Kelton has the freshest dressing of all —I
suppose because she couldn’t possibly get into the
wardrobe left behind by little Ratie Barry?
Lonnen’s yellow coat as “The man who broke the
bank at Monte Carlo ” was a good pattern for an
advanced “Johnny” to imitate.
Yours failhfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
In vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
Innes’ Boar’s Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled‘.by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar’s Head
brand comprises wines of all prices and qualities
—porta, clarets, muscats, hooka, and Others too
mm ermis to sppc'fy.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s "Man to Man.”
Lyceum “Miss Esmeralda.”
Criterion “ Niobe.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Centenary Hall. ...... ..... Jubilee Singers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Mountebanks.”
Theatre Royal. .. .......... “The Double Event.”
Opera House ...... Variety Company,
The Gaiety Co.’s “ Carmen tip to Data/’
at Sydney Lyceum, gives Lonnen, as Jose, his
only opportunity to look like Ryley with his hair
cut. The gifted E. J; is generally doomed to
sinful ugliness; The feature of “ Carmen ”
was the beauteous Addie Conyers, seen for
the first time not in tights, but in the title-
role as prima-donna. Founding her acting
largely on Marion Hood, but singing the pretty
musio much more carefully and kindly than
that disaffected ducal favourite did last
trip, the Conyers made a success of her skirt
chance and was encored and floral-basketed.
Other changes in the cast were the massive Grace
Wixon, who is fated through weight alone to
follow the vanished Maria Jones, as Michaela—
the manly Aggie Kelton, as Alphonze, and Lelia
Roze* in Conyers’ old part of Escamillo. Miss
Roze spoke and twittered as Cue who whistleth
through a respirator, but seemed a reasonable suc-
cess as a lay figure to hang bull-fighting clothes
on. Courtneidge’s Zuniga was a bright feature of
the show. Alice Leamar and Alice Lethbridge
conspired to show the ballet what they might
become if they lived and were good—and the
grotesque dance in the “ Pot a-boiling ” quartette
was a lesson to any spider suffering on a hot
shovel. “ Carmen ” was a blaze of colour.
The only uniformed people were a handful of
soldiers —all the rest wore his or her own
silk-and-satin patch-work. Addie Conyers
was under-painted (when will the stage hit the
happy medium in make-up?) and scarcely pink-
and-white-and-golden enough for a prima-donna ;
but her dresses, especially the yellow silk and gold
sequins of the last act and the green and scarlet
with red and gold embroideries, were bright as
the dawn. Addie Conyers’ splendid figure rather
suffered in skirts, and it set one reflecting how
many Conyers-rigged damsels there are in a plenti-
fully-petticoated world without anybody suspect-
ing them of it.
** * *
The ancient hulk “Success,” recently
dragged up by the hair from its repose in the ooze
and shadows of Kerosene Bay, is again on view at
Circular Quay, Sydney. For many weeks the
horrible old ruin lay dismantled on the beach with
grey slime dripping from its broken masts, and
the dusky, sacrilegious prawn wandering over its
sides, and sea-weed hanging like the fingers of
decomposed convicts from its planks, and the
great, original, seed, stench of the earth per-
vading the air all round —a stench of soaked and
rotted wax “ figger,” and dead fish, and old sea-
bottom, unwisely stirred up. Since then, however,
the battered composition bushrangers have been
fixed up as good as new, and the smell has been
partially alleviated, and a certain horrible fresh-
ness, like the freshness of a rouged and powdered
ghost, has been spread over the surface of things.
The “ Success ’■ is under new management, and is
still expected to start at an, early date for Chicago
in the capacity of the hulk that never returned.
*» * *
Sydney Royal will make a fresh effort on
Saturday, when dear old, Dampier produces
“Robbery Under Arms,” assisted by Misses Lily
and Rose, and “a company of capable comediennes
and comedians.” Why Dampier wants to play
Boldrewood’s drama with a company of comedians
this paper knoweth not; at all events, “Robbery
Under Arms ” has never, passed- for a comedy so
long as we have been acquainted with it. No
change is looming even in the furthest distance at
Her Majesty’s. Mjr. W. F. Clitherow takes what
promises to be a large and robust benefit at the
latter theatre op April 5. The four minstrel shows
continue to be ? each of them, the best show of the
kind in the city. Also, a number, of “ sacred ”
entertainments are getting ready, notably at Her
Majesty’s and the Town Hall, for Good Friday
night, when the dank and indigestible hot cross
bun predisposes the public to solemn thoughts and
heavy melancholy.
** * *
“ Niobe ” still fills the snug Sydney
Criterion, and every performance further proves
that the name-part, fits Mrs. Brough like a glove.
It is a charming character —full of pathos, and
dignity for all the comedy element; Mrs. Brough
may ticket it, a? the very best part in her long
list. If Sydney contained a million inhabitants.
B. & B. might run “ Niobe ” for 18 months.
* * **
Gil. and Sul. revivals have served to
keep Melbourne Princess’ in good/demand these
latter days. “lolanthe” played a short, lively
innings, and on Saturday the tragical-comical-
histoncal musical drama, yclept “The Yeomen of
the Guard ” was received with sombre satisfaction
by a full house. “The Yeomen,” owing to its
complex emotions and uncertain character, or
something, has never been convincingly performed
on this side of the globe, but the last attempt
seemed as genuine as soma that date further back.
Howard Vernon, loaded up with luscious anec-
dotes of the Torture Chamber, is always welcome.
The masked headsman again dumped his axe upon
the block after the same old bar of music, and the
scenery equalled its former success. Lissant
brought his generous feet to the fore in support of
Sergeant Meryll, his predecessor, Ryley, occupy-
ing a private box for the occasion. The absence of
Ryley made little difference, inasmuch as he doesn’t
take kindly to elderly characters with beards on
them. Neither does George Lauri take very kindly
to the cap and bells of the sentimental Joe Miller
who has a song to sing-o, although he manages to
sing-o more tunefully than Elton could. Lauri
scarcely realises one’s idea of a wandering Eliza-
bethan jester—furthermore, he hasn’t the appear-
ance of being consumed by a secret passion.
These objections are open to dispute, however.
Pfinnpness is not , incompatible with a broken
heartland (he hireling wag of ages ago has become
a mere matter of opinion. Tp-night (Thursday)
they are playing “ Mikado tq-morrow (Good
Friday) the theatre will be closed on religious
grounds for a dress rehearsal of “The Mounte-
banks.”
** * »
George Darrell’s drama of sport and
passion is due at thb Royal upon the same night.
George has engaged ft good, all-round company to
pull off “The Doubfe Event.” In the Melbourne
Cup scene a field ,ej 20 horses will canter madly
up the straight aufidtit the roar of 100 auxiliaries,
and it is certaiftwifct George himself will be «
moving spectacle at the critical moment when tl. a
numbers go up and virtue (having p Ufc i ts boo
upon the winner) is at last triumphant.
* * *
“ The Mountebanks ” makes an Australian
debM on Saturday. If any stage show can boom
in Melbourne under present conditions, the fiv-7
and last Gilbert-Cellier opera is almost certain
to do it* **
** * *
Also the Alexandra promises to re-open
With a mixed programme of “ East Lynne ” and
nigger minstrelsy on April 1. The AlhamU-.
Palace of Varieties (Opera House) struggles abm
on the old lines. The halls and
places of amusement are preparing Easter offer
mgs of a special description. The Jerusalem
Cyclorama from Adelaide is just open, and grpaf
hopes of the Seraphina Orchestra, at the Town
Hall, are entertained in milsical circles. Some of
the Seraphina players, judging from their photos
must be very pleasing girls. A Sacred Festival’
in conjunction with the national display of ham’
grapes and bacon, takes place at the Exhibition on
Good Friday, a day elsewhere dedicated to
classical buns and hot-cross music. Meanwhile
the “educated classes” are rolling up to the
British Art Gallery like one snob; in order to
enjoy three sickly little pictures by Our Gracious
Queen. A barrier, to prevent loyal subjects from
licking the paint, has been erected in front of theau
distinguished works.
** * *
The ambitious amateur company which cave
“Les Cloches” at Melb. Opbra House, sometime
back, repeated that opera at the Collingwood Hall
last week. Admirable chorus singing, as before
was the one first-class feature of a neatly-mounted
show. However, the principals had in each case
sufficient voice, or acting capacity, to pull them
through. Germaine, a debutante * moved in »
mysterious way, but she took care not to move
herself much; whereas, the haggard, attenuated
tenor was as lively as a mechanical toy with a
penny in its slot. A full baritone Count seems
to require only a long course of lessons
in elocution to make him a success, and
the low comedians, although lacking in detail
were not depressing. Honours fell to the Miser
and Serpolette. The former is already close up to
the average professional Gaspard in intensity
whilst dainty little Miss Dovan has so many
qualifications for the part that her ineffective
make-up is a calamity, and her wilful failings call
for remedial treatment. The want of all amateur
companies is a huge, muscular, scowling manager
—an inhuman monster who would give the girls
fits at rehearsal and expostulate with the men in
disgraceful language, instead of letting them all
revel in their original sin.
** * *
Joshua Lake runs his picture-show at Mel-
bourne Public Library rent free. The old National
Gallery has, in point of fact, been handed over to
an enterprising gentleman who brings out a num-
ber of British paintings for sale on com., and calls
himself the Anglo-Australian Society of Artists.
Yet the Murray-Smith “ Imperial ” push who are
understood to guarantee the expenses of these
Lake picnics claim credit for risking a loss.
* * *■ *
Miss Ada Crossley, the contralto (whose
portrait appears on page 12 of this number
of The Bulletin), perhaps the brightest
rising star on the Australian musical horizon,
was born at Tarraville, South Gippsland, Vic r ,
March 3rd, 1871. Always fond of music, she was
sent to Melbourne to receive lessons from Signor
Zelman, under whose tuition she remained
some months, and was recommended by him
to _ Madame Simonsen as “ a girl with » good
voice.” Madame decided at once that she could
make something of Miss Crossley, and encouraged
her by saying that in a few years she would pro-
bably take rank as the leading Australian con-
tralto.. For three years Miss Crossley was under
the tuition of Madame Simonsen, with whom she
made her home. After a most successful dehut at
the School of Music concert, at Melbourne
Athenaeum, she repeatedly appeared with the
Metropolitan and Melbourne Liedertafels and Phil-
harmonic and other societies in and out of Mell
bourne; and has visited Adelaide at least five times
within the last half-year to fulfil oratorio, chamber
and papular concert engagements. She appeared
with Sydney Liedertafel last December, and this
month the same society enlists her valuable aid;
For some time past Miss- Crossley has sung with
great success at the Melbourne Exhibition popular
concerts. “ Thanks to the unswerving kindness of
and the interest taken in me by my sole and only
teacher —Madame Fanny Simonsen —I have, up to 1
the present time, been successful in my profes-
sion,” modestly remarks the talented young vocal-
ist. Miss Crossley visits Sydney for Mr. Charles
Huenerbein’s Easter Monday concert at the Town
Hall.
At Poverty Point.
A\ "Wrestling Lion” (writes The B.’s London corres-
pondent) is now one of the attractions of the Oxford
Music Hall, where the ex-king of the forest tries falls
nightly, with his trainer, a muscular nigger, who, by the
way, is the. man who. was mauled and very nearly eaten
by the lion, at Birmingham, years ago. Someone has pro-
posed that there should be four rounds between the
stranger from Numidia and the boxing kangaroo. Joey
is understood to decline, but he says he will fight the'
British ljoi}, to a finish..
Penley tells Xue Bulletin’s London correspondent
that he netted over £l7OO, on the week before the mail'
left, by ‘‘Charley’s. Aunt,” which is going stronger than'
ever at the Globe, Over £7OOO has been booked in'
advance, and it is impossible to get a seat in the house'
under four or five weeks. Brandon Thomas’ fees amount
to close on £2OO a week. Hawtrey might have had 1
the piece, but after he saw it at Bury St. Edmunds-
he wouldn’t touch, it, and thus missed a gold mine.
Which goes to show that even the best judges are
sometimes wrong. Strange to say, although it is now so'
excruciatingly funny, “Charley’s Aunt” was played
originally as a serious piece, but finding that it did not
go down in that shape Penley set to work to put some
fun into it, and succeeded so well that it is now perhaps’
the most amusing ooimdy ever seen. After he has made
about £50,000 out of it in England, Penley will take it in'
his portmanteau to Australia and America.
A S, A. parson has been called*upon to resign because of
his undue affection for theatricals. It is complained
that he gave picnics- to the Pollard youngsters, but what
broke the unworldly deacons all up was the fact that he
postponed the confirmation-class to attend the final per-
formance !
On Fillis’ opening-night in Adelaide there was grea’lt
consternation when two Chinamen, redolent of Bindley -


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,202,010 ss. Id.,
md u s SURPLUS over all liabilities to' £3,457.808 ss. Id., being the LARGEST
urplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Go. in the world.
It docs the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
lns.ii NorF ' ’^r rrhis 5s t,le on, Y Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
'I Ce i Dc P Rrtnient - The Assets. Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
e state by the Insurance Superintendent.
BURROUGHES
—AND—
WATTS, ltd
BILLT A 11 I) T ABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
tfr Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
street ensconced themselves in their reserved seats
between two scented and powdered dames. Not a smile
on John’s face, though.
A Chinese opera co. plays once or twice a week at Mellx
Hibernian Hall. One recent night, the committee got out
the big green banner of the Hibernians, which bears the
rsvered St. Patrick in a long beard and flowing robes.
The “ heavy father ” of the Chinese troupe eyed the
Ha-ure in a puzzled way for a couple of minutes. Then a
liirbt illumined his visage, and he exclaimed to a
ournalist near by, “ I tink him Cli, eh ? ” Nor would his
irCtnirinv mind be comforted, till it was explained to him
the flo-ure represented “ St. Patliok.” Then he
broke out with, “ I know him. Patlick all same Ilisb-
men’s Joss ! ” He wasn’t far out.
Georo-e Anson at latest was looking about for a London
theitre'in w bich to produce a play that be brought with
him from Australia.
Nellie Farren is able to get about occasionally, but with
the threat of paralysis always hanging over her. She is
50 years of age now.
What an awful skiter is young man Bradley, who wrote
“The Red Cripple 1” Witness this inspired par. in the
Waikarapa (M.L.) Star:— “Bradley, who, on Bentley’s
first trip was the tragedian’s business manager, writes
from ’Frisco intimating that he has advantageously sold
several of his plays and novels founded on colonial sub-
jects and before the close of the year to be in
receipt of £5OOO a year as the result of his industry.
Bradley requests Maoriland friends to keep a warm corner
in their hearts for him, as he expects to return soon with
a Yankee theatrical company.” The whole world has a
warm corner in its heart for the man with £6OOO a year.
A juvenile opera co. of young Maorilanders, mostly
hailing fro* ll Wellington, are starting to tour the country
in opposition to Tom Pollard “kids.”
One of Lauri’s new gags is to make a frafitio snatch at
one of Florence Young’s top notes and bounce it about
suggestively as a “ bawl." Complicated humour.
At Johannesberg, Transvaal, the other day, eight
chorus-girls who took exception to a criticism in the local
Standard and Diggers’ News waited upon the editor
with whips and sticks and gave him a terrible thrashing.
The Charringtonscommence a season shortly at London
Royalty, where several plays by Ibsen, and a new comedy
by Brandon Thomas will be presented. Considering that
the dingy little house in Soho has hitherto, save in the
case of = Penley, been associated with dismal failure, it
does seem somewhat unnecessary and superfluous for
Oharrington to announce “that there will be no long
runs.”
Waiter Bentley made a big profit out of his Adelaid®
season.
The attention of intending competitors in
The Bulletin Word Competition, No. 2, is called
to the fact that it will close on Saturday of this
week (April 1).
G. H. Reid will offer Varney Parkes a
portfolio in the first N.S.W. Ministry he forms.
Will some member of the Victorian Par-
liament ascertain how many charges of tampering
with little girls have been preferred during the last
three years by parents (who subsequently declined
to prosecute) against a certain clergyman ?
The Times, London, will yet follow the
Argus lead. Here, again, was stupid pride—the
Times allowed the Telegraph to gain terrific
headway, and the obvious moral enforced by
Lawson & Co. is ; “We give you a better Times
for a third of the money.” But it takes a lot to
kill a Times.
It is not correct, as stated, that Miss Grace
Robinson was the first woman to pass the necessary
examination for M. 8.. Ch.M., at Sydney Univer-
sity. Miss Fanny Coghlan—sister, by the way,
of the N.S.W. Statistician, and of Dr. Coghlan, of
the N.S.W. Bar—passed at the same time and
equally well. Miss Robinson, therefore, merely
shares, does not monopolise, the honor.
The S.M. Herald wants very badly to
know if the new Parliamentary custom of taking
the control of the House out of Ministerial hands
is likely to continue. It may be “ antagonistic to
the spirit of the Constitution of the mother
country,” but it is a present partial nullification
of and a step towards the complete overthrow of
the noxious system of Party Government.
The Downer (S.A.) Ministerial policy is
announced as “rest and quiet.” The Opposition
leader, Holder, believes in activity—his panacea,
a moderate progressive land-tax ; while Dr. Cock-
burn suggests even more radical remedies. It is
expected that Works Minister Grayson and Treas.
Rounsevell will be beaten at the polls ; also, that
the latest “rat,” Lands Minister Howe, will suc-
cumb to a Labour candidate. Even Premier
Downer himself seems not too safe. Holder,
Playfqrd, Kingston and Cockburn, prominent
Oppositionists, should all head the polls in their
districts.
Phil May (says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent) starts upon his tour round the
world sooner than he expected. The Graphic
people, in whose interest he goes, were afraid that
some other enterprising newspaper proprietor
might anticipate them, so they have determined
to pack Phil off at once. He goes first to Chicago,
and thence to Japan, China, and Australia.
He will have as travelling companion a chum of
his named Grew, who will contribute the letter-
press which Phil will illustrate. Besides the con-
tributions to the Graphic, these two will send
special letters to the Daily Graphic. Mrs. May
will accompany her husband.
Victorian Missing Mace Board reports
that “the rumours and statements concerning the
mace were entirely without foundation, and that
be mace had been stolen for melting purposes ;
out, owing to the conflicting evidence, the Board
W / IS llna We to fix the guilt on any person.” This
gnastly piece of assurance breaks a good many
records There was plenty of “conflicting evi-
ae?°® before the court, but not one atom of it
pointed to anybody as having taken the mace for
melting purposes, and on the same evidence the
oara might just as reasonably have decided that
was destroyed by lightning, or taken by a mad
og, or that it was removed by a somnambulist,
ofif mamae > or that it had fallen through into the
r> lai a Among all the theories advanced, the
decides confidently in favour of the only
eon ) ■ absolutely unsupported. And, in
noiusion, the Board makes some severe remarks
mu. a certain section of the press.” The re-
arks which a good many sections of the press
~ ma ke about the Board will also prove toler-
ably severe.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The manager of one of the few remaining
Sydney finance companies was, the other day, interviewed
by an old man, who, with much apologetic nervousness,
enquired whether he couldn’t be allowed to draw the
£loooat hia credit on fixed deposit. “Can’t you manage
to let me have it by monthly instalments?” The manager
replied that he could have the lot at once if he liked.
The old man had no less than seven receipts for money
deposited in other institutions, and representing the
savings of a lifetime. He does not expect to get out of
them all eighteenpence in his £l. Despite the hideous
N.S.W. banking catastrophes of the past two years—
hideous because of their involving the whole capital, not
of mere speculators, but of the hardest-working and most
self-denying classes of the community—not one single
legislative step has yet been taken to make bogus-banking
in the province any less difficult.
* m *
In Sydney, when a poor, hungry depositor calls
to see what his particular busted Building Society is
likely to turn out, he is generally advised to take, in satis-
faction of his claim, land to the figure on his deposit
receipt. In many cases he does so, at the co.’s fancy
prices, thus lessening the number of creditors. Those in
the “ know ” who have held on to their deposit receipts
come out, in many cases, fairly well when the co.’s assets
are at length realised and divided among these few.
» « *
The present troubles of the Sydney Permanent
Freehold Land and Building Co.—the institution which
proposed to suspend payment for four years, and then
settle up in six yearly instalments—it now' appears, were
caused largely by the undue anxiety cf the directors to
resume payment. The institution, in February, 1892, made
terms with itsdepositorsunder the Companies Arrangement
Act; it resumed payment in March, and paidaway £126,000
to depositors, £llO,OOO, by the way, being borrowed from
the A.M.P. Society for the purpose. Then, having thus
“blewed” all its liquid resources, it was unable to
meet an instalment of 2s. Bd. in the £ under the arrange-
ment, and wants ten years’ grace. What the public would
now like to know is—(l) Why the directors, having made
an arrangement by which all the depositors could have
recovered their principal and interest on equal conditions,
should have proceeded to pay a certain batch of deposi-
tors, and thus leave the others in the lurch? (2) Who
were the principal depositors who got their money so un-
expectedly, and whose claims the directors were so anxious
to settle that they borrowed £llO,OOO todoit, of which sum
£58,000 is still unpaid? (3) What is the present position
of the common, ordinary, unpaid depositor, seeing that
he is to be postponed until old age comes upon him, and
his interest is proposed to be reduced from five per cent,
to four, and the company’s assets—which form his
security—have been pawned to pay the other crowd?
These questions are suggested by a careful study of the
company’s latest report.
# # *
As foreshadowed some months ago in The
Bulletin, the old and honourable house of Chris. Newton
and Co., of Sydney, are liquidating their business.
# * •
Two magnates .down South—one a medico
and the other a newspaper-proprietor—are endeavouring
to arrange with their creditors.
• * •
It is roughly estimated that during ’BB and ’B9
about one-third of the shares of Melbourne public com-
panies were held by office-boys, caretakers, and mes-
sengeis.
• * »
Mr. J. A. Scarr’s scheme of municipally cater-
ing for the steamboat wants of Manly is within the four
corners of the general working principle laid down by the
London County Council. Manly has now to play a game
of bluff against some most accomplished bluffers. The
recalcitrant Port Jackson S.S. Co., judging from the
howl they made in face of a paltry opposition a few years
ago, and the readiness with which they spent thousands
in buying up the little company’s wharf, &c., would sing
very small if tackled by Council steamboats having the
exclusive monopoly of the only central and suitable pier.
* # *
Commercial Bank of Australia shares (£4 paid-
up) fell from 595. to 575. in Melbourne on Saturday, and
by Monday night got successfully down to 50s.
Apparently the downward slide is acquiring extra velocity
every day.
# # *
In 1861 the A.M.P. Society had the whole Aus-
tralian field to itself, and the amount assured was in
round numbers about £1,000,000. Now, though there
are a number of other Australian companies in competi-
tion with it, to say nothing of the Americans, the A.M.P.
assurances in force alone amount to no less than
£37,000,000 (excluding bonuses), while the grand total in
all the Australian offices combined is as nearly as possible
£74,000,000, being at the rate of £l9 per head for every
man, woman and child in the population of Australasia.
* * #
There is no enterprise in the Australian life-
insurance man. The other day one of the tribe called at
The Bulletin office and desired to take the life of the
present writer. The latter thereupon offered to insure for
£lOOO provided the agent would take his pro. note at six
months, with interest added, for the first year’s premium.
He pointed out that the first year’s premium or thereabouts
went to the agent as commission, therefore, if the latter
took a proposal on these terms, which he couldn’t obtain
on any other terms, he could lose nothing, and would at
least be a pro.-note ahead. If the document was dis-
honoured he would be just where he originally was ; it it
panned out for even 10s. in the £, that 10s. would be so
much gained. But, despite ten minutes’ hard logic, the
agent professed himself absolutely unable to see it, and
the transaction fell through.
• • •
The Bulletin hears that salaries on the Argos
were reduced by 7i per cent., as a preliminary to the
reduction in the price of the paper.
* * *
The fat Age newspaper account has been trans-
ferred from the Federal Bank to the Bank of Victoria—
“ Money” Miller’s foundation. Time was when the Age
and the Millers were not on the best of terms.
# • #
Alfred Deakin professes anxiety to discover
why the one man (Mr. Ainslie) who could “ tell them all
about” the Mercantile Bank business isn’t called by the
Vic. Crown. Perhaps the Crown doesn’t want to tell
them all about it.
* * «
A wealthy Sydney wholesale “thrifty” firm,
having conceived a brilliant scheme of retrenchment, sent
out all their bills in open envelopes at half-rates the other
day. Result: Some of their customers sent back cheques
and an intimation that they intended withdrawing their
custom ; others withdrew it without the cheques. The
firm had then to get up an elaborate circular, apologising
all round and saying they didn’t mean any harm.
# * #
You can’t quell the born life-insurance tout.
One of him, the other day, heard that the son of the
potentate of a one-horse N.S.W. locality had been sneering
at his (the “life’’-man’s) cheques, and had stated in a
letter to a mutual friend that said cheques were worth-
less. “Life” got possession of that letter. Result: A
written apology, to be published whenever thought
necessary ; a salve of £25 cash, and the “slanderer” had
to insure his life for £lOOO.
Peisley Bros., the Sydney money-lenders who
made Premier Dibbs insolvent, explain that they were
quite ready to come to some satisfactory arrangement
about the pro. note. The explanation, however, is in-
complete without a statement of the proposed rate per
shent.
* m *
It is now admitted in open Court that Graham
Berry attempted to transfer 100 Mercantile Bank shares
to Kate E. Berry on the day before the show burst up.
This is trotted out by the dailies as “sensational evi-
dence,” yet The Bulletin stated at the time of the Mer-
cantile failure that Miss Berry had sold this same 100.
shares on the market, and the buyer intended to repudi-
ate them. Result—“they were re-transferred to Graham
Berry on September 13,” more than six months after-
wards.
•• • *
Among other cheerful revelations it transpires
that the solicitors, the auditors, and ten other officials of
the smellful Mercantile Bank had overdrafts at that
institution. How much honest auditing is likely to be
done by the man who is liable to be sold up for his over-
draft if he finds out anything disagreeable? Even less
than is done by the ordinary auditor who is liable to be
“ sacked ” by the Board and lose his salary if he objects to
the way the Board fools with the accounts. Private
auditing of public companies is a farce any way you
take it.
# * •
Melbourne tram-directors profess to object to a
union amongst their employes, because it would be sub-
versive to that “ military discipline ” which is necessary
to the working of such a concern. Transparent hypo-
crisy 1 They have got the men down, and find it neces-
sary to sit on them to keep them down.
• • •
It is time shareholders in Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co. awoke to the fact that the amalgamating
mill at present working on the mine, and of which such
great results were predicted, is a white elephant of the
first magnitude. The plant cost in the neighbourhood of
£70,000, and it is doubtful whether it is at present.paying
even interest on this outlay. The amalgamation process
was intended to solve the problem of the profitable treat-
ment of low-grade silicious ores which contained too
small a percentage of lead to be smelted at a
profit, but it does not appear to recover a
reasonable percentage of the silver in the ore,
and besides entails a tremendous waste of the quick-
silver used in amalgamating. A statement of the amount
of ore treated, the cost per ton, and the quantity of silver
produced since the works were started some six months
ago, would provide the shareholders with some interesting
reading. On the other hand, many of the ores at present
being treated by this process at a loss could be leached at
a profit, even at the present low price of silver. Appar-
ently the amalgamating plant is nothing more than a
gigantic experiment, which could only be run by a mine
of the richness of the Proprietary. The rival processes
for the treatment of “dry” ores may be summed up in a
few words:—Leaching is cheap and reasonably effective ;
amalgamation is expensive and uncertain.
* * #
It is believed that, unless the sulphide problem
be solved, there will be only one Broken Hill mine work-
ing in two years from now. The end of the biggest mine
may come at any time—in 12 months or 12 years. Let
not the public swallow' without chewing reports of “ fresh
discoveries.”
* » #
The miners locked-out at Coalville (Gippsland)
“ put away ” the co. by advertising “ Thickness of seam,
last measurement, fifteen inches.”
• * «
Months ago, the writer asked if it was true that
the known payable ore in Mount Gahan mine, Pambula,
was limited to the upper levels. It is now reported that
the workings of this mine show that the auriferous deposit
is V-shaped from the surface down to a depth of 160 ft.,
where it goes out to a feather edge, and all that remains
is the ore left in the slopes above the 100 ft. level. Other
reefs or deposits are known to exist on the property, but,
so far as proved, neither these nor the remaining ore in
the mine w'arrant the erection of an expensive 20-head
battery, now almost completed. The same authority says
the rich shoots of ore in other local mines are similarly
sharpened ; hence it is easy to see how bodies of ore,
which were promising on the surface, so quickly
disappeared at depth.
# « *
N.S.W. silver-boom sequels noticed last week.
Peelwood: Inches of mud, brought down by the recent
rainstorm, around the several thousand-pounds worth of
furnaces. Cordillera: Two men dismantling sheds of
timber and iron. Mount Costigan: Manager and a
labourer picking up by hand small chunks of limestone to
keep the furnaces going an hour or two longer before
shutting down. Ichabod ! Ichabod!
• * •
The old Acadia crushing, on which the hopes
of many a Bendigo man were recently fixed, was some-
what disappointing—6o tons for 20ozs. ; payable if the
average of a big body.
* * *
The South Catherine mine, adjoining the Aca-
dia, has also struck a new body, the first crushing from
which—sB tons—went loz. The disappointed hopes of
one crushing were revived by the other.
# # #
As per the writer’s predictions re the Swamp
Oak (N. S. W.)field was the number of little crushings, clearly
proving that the shoots were very short. Interested
correspondents disputed the conclusion, but the fact
remains that all the crushing results now announced
are from new places; crushings from the older mines
have ceased.
# • #
The 4|oz. per ton crushing from the lowest
depth (1200 ft. vertical) in the Brilliant Block gold mine,
Charters Towers, has put up the shares nearly 70 per
cent., and raised the value of the adjacent mines which
are going for the Brilliant reef at lower depths, such as
the Brilliant Freeholds, Extendeds, &c. Good news for
the English investor, who holds heavy interests in the
Block. The local newspaper, run by the lawyer-cwm-
mine-boomer crowd, has now to back down from its per-
sistent depreciation of the Block. Needless to say, this
“ push ” don’t hold scrip in said show.
• * *
The No. 7 N.E. Queen (Charters Towers) has
commenced making calls, despite a credit balance and
considerable payable stone in sight. Which accounts for
the share-price drop. Verb. sap.
* * *
The once lucrative Gate mine (Charters Towers)
has apparently seen its best days. Yields have been fall-
ing woeful’y, and hands have been shortened. The Eng-
lish purchasers who hold the show came in just a little too
late.
# # *
“The safest place on earth to realise a marine
insurance is evidently between the Barrier reef and the
Queensland coast.
# # #
Who was the postal delegate who boasted of
having made £20,000 out of a Queensland tin mine ? He
bought in at £250, sold halt for £lOOO, and then drew
£6500 per annum divs. for three years.
# # #
Big things are going on at Pambula. The
Golden Diorite Co., it is reported, have erected “ An
American horse-whim which works well.” Although
silent on the point it is to be hoped that the Australian
whim-horse also works well. If he does, it will give
pleasure to all.
• • *
With the advantage of cheap crushing (7s. Gd.)
at the splendid battery of the Golden Gully mine, many
Uibutors and others are making wages on the old Iron-
barks (N.S.W.) field. The country being comparatively
level, stone is'easily carted. Other reefs re-open shortly.
• * •
More money has been dropped into the Maldou
(Vic.) mines than ever came out of them - as some English
people, and the ex-Minister of Mines, who floated the
shows, remember with regret. At last some sunshine:
the South German lately cleaned up 324 tons for 2240z3.,
and from 62 tons of pyrites got 3460z5. ; total, 5700z5,
Reefs carry much sulphurets below water level.
* • #
The Sandhurst Mining Co. are still working
their tin concession in the Straits Settlement, and are
turning out some 50 to 60 tons of ore monthly.
Lansell has a great weakness for resurrecting
old, practically-abandoned mines on Bendigo. In several
cases he has been successful in discovering new runs of
gold and picking up lost ones, and he never ceases work in
these speculations until he has dropped a lot of money.
At Castlemaine he has re-opened the old Ajax reef. This
was, fully a quarter century ago, the richest mine in the
district and paid big div idends. It then ruined as many
men as it made, and was finally abandoned. Already it is
reported Lansell has got on to a five-foot reef showing
fair gold.
# # *
Two offers from Melbourne to buy right out the
New Red, White and Blue, Bendigo. It is wanted for the
English market.' But Lansell’s price will likely stagger
them.
* * #■
Tall yarns still reach us from the Murchison
(W.A.) goldfield. As, for instance; Cophrahe, from one
solitary bucket of stone, got 130 oz, of gold. It may be
noted that this was done in the presence of “some
Eastern speculators who happened to be close by,”
Augh, augh 1 Again : Peter the Swede, at the Horseshoe
Bend, found a 27 lb. nugget, which yielded over 25 lb. of
gold. Another lucky man picked up a slug weighing
97 ounces ; while four men picked up four nuggets each
weighing 43 oz. exactly.
* # #
Disappointed Melbourne shareholders are asking
about the capital subscribed for the Silver Cliff mine.
West Coast, Tas. Of the £BOOO placed to its credit £1250
went for brokerage, £56 in charges, £9B for advertising,
£lO6 for law, £350 directors’ fees, £303 legal manager,
and £llB for travelling expenses, and the balance in the
mine, which wants more and can’t get it,
* * #
Apropos of the present horribly “oronk” con-
dition of Melbourne men and institutions, the following
extract from the gushful Mr. Justin McCartie’s so-called
novel, “ Making his Pile ” (published before the boom
burst), is interesting reading :—“ It is Victoria’s national
spirit which sends her ahead. .... Public men of
Victoria have, as a rule, worked steadily for the good of
the country as a whole, and, with a wise and far-seeing
eye, have founded her institutions on a sound and endur-
ing basis. The wealth and stability of her trading insti-
tutions and companies place them above the temptation
of petty swindles. Her moral tone is quite as high as we
can expect the tone of young Democracy, seeing the
motto of such a community is ‘ Every man for himself,
and devil take the hindmost.’ ”
* * «
The Yelta (S.A.) copper-mine is being co-opera-
tively handled with fair success by working miners.
Capitalists could not make it pay.
* * *
Dr. Peter’s report on the Mt. Lyell mine, Tas.,
clearly indicates that, with the expenditure of an enor-
mous sum in a railway and the most modern mining
machinery, it will be a dividend-paying concern.
* * #
The Bonang correspondent of the Mining
Standard (Sydney) wants “Government to erect a few
small batteries on the Bonang river.” How many? Say
half-a-dozen. The Bonang man might as well he modest.
He adds that the Bonanza claim is at a standstill, as there
is no plant to get the gold out of the stone. Surely there
are ways and means of crushing bonanzas. Boot it out!
The writer, it so happens, has seen the Bonanza claim,
and quite appreciates the name-satire.
* * *
An ex-mining speculator, now an ii m ite of
Woogaroo Asylum (Q.), wanders about there with a brick
in his pocket. “Look at this,” he says to a stranger.
“ Nice diamond, isn’t it ? Watch it sparkle,”
Baron Hastings, who, it is cabled, has been
fined .£5O for attempting to assault a nursegirl in
Regent Park, is married to a sister of Lady Car-
ington. He is the patron of eight church livings,
and has been a steward of the Jockey Club,
The public will be somewhat curious to
learn who paid the big fees for Salomons, Q.C.,
and his junior in the Makin baby-slaughter appeal
case. Was it the N.S.W. Government? At time
of writing, the legal profession eagerly awaits the
Full Court’s judgment, in which Judge Windeyer
is expected to make a to r de force.
Says the Argus in its transparently feeble
apologia pro reductions: “The reduction to one
penny is the logical consequence of previous suc-
cessive reductions in the price of the paper.”
Which points clearly to a further reduction, in
course of time, to one halfpenny and down’ards.
M‘llwraith, the new Queensland Premier,
has formed a new Ministry, to face the electors at
the pending general elections Chief Secretary
and Railways, M‘l!wraith ; Treasurer, Nelson ;
Colonial Secretary, Tozer; Mines and Works,
Lissner; Lands, Barlow : Attorney - General,
Byrnes; Education and P. 0., Wilson; Agent-
General (in Queensland, a Cabinet Minister), W.
Forrest. (The three last-named are in the Legis-
lative Council, but Byrnes proposes to stand for
the Assembly.) A mixed lot, truly ! Syndicator
M‘llwraith, who now comes forward as champion
of the most iniquitous land-grab ever perpetrated
in a civilised country, need not further be des-
cribed. Nelson is a Darling Downs squatter, who
began to pose as a student of finance when first
elected to Parliament several years ago. Tozer is
a mining lawyer, and the “ Jawbone Neild ” of the
Bananaland Assembly, his political viciousnesa
being intensified by his addiction to total abstin-
ence. Isidore Lissner is the pigmy of Aus-
tralian politicians—about sft. nothing in height, 7
stone nothing in weight, and a brain in pro-
portion ; he is somehow supposed to be inter-
ested in miners, as he has long lived around
Charters Towers, Ravenswood, and Townsville,
but his instincts are purely “commercial.’’
Tolerably faithful flunkeyism to MTlwraith estab-
lishes his claim to reward. Barlow is an Ipswich
banker, with Bible-class tendencies, and a grudge
against Griffith for not having made him Treasurer
in ’B3. Byrnes is a young, pushing Australian,
caught by ambition in a bad set. Forrest and
Wilson are very old fossils. In the past, MTI-
- Nelson, and Lissner have been ,bitterly
opposed in Parliament by Tozer and Barlow;
again, MTlwraith and Nelson were at daggers
drawn in the days of the Griffilwraith. Further,
it is announced that J. J. Kingsbury will be sup-
ported for North Brisbane by MTlwraith. J.J.K.
is an anti-MTlgriff Griffithite—a never-touch-it
and all-round social reformer, who, nevertheless,
runs a piano-huckstering business. MTlwraith
has dropped the odious Theodore Unmack like a
shib of ice, and W. O. Hodgkinson has been
“left” because he couldn’t carry his oats. The
new gang consists of three squatters, three law-
yers, one banker, and—lsidor Lissner. What.a
crew!


d
IOItIK.V »V HSlirl UM l\
ST A MI'S.
100 different Foreign, 2/0; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 0/10 nil post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN <Sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot ,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
PLEASANT INFORM ATION.
It is pleasant for us to be able to communicate
to persons suffering from weakness tlio fact that
there is a certain remedy in Wolfe’s Schnapps.
a*‘‘YOST” Typewriter.
yu
Dispenses with INK RIBBONS, SHIFT KEYS and
KAO AMKMIIOT.
Smallest, Quickest, Easiest, Lightest (weighs only IClbs.),
most Durable ami Cheapest to Run.
Over 13, €C0 in Use.
{3?" Prospectus and Specim ns of Work (incomparable)
SENT FREE.
The YOST TYPEWRITER 00.,
12G Pitt-st, Sydney; and 144 Eluabelb-st, Mkmiouii.nb.
Personal Items
A well-known Melbourne solicitor has, we
hear, come into an English earldom with £30,000
a year.
It is explained that Dibbs became insol*
vent because he didn’t wish to be considered
eccentric.
“ What became of Murphy, of Premier
Permanent fame?” He at present “runs a pub.”
in Dublin.
Who will be the first “colonial” knight
to go to gaol ? The Bulletin could name him in
two guesses.
Pat. McCaughan appeared in Collins-
street, Melbourne, on 17th March, with Orange
ribbon in his coat.
The aide-de-camp who was' made over by
Lord Hopeloun to Acting - Governor Madden
seems to feel his position keenly.
Pattison, the Mount Morgan millionaire,
is suffering from paralysis at Rockhampton (Q.),
and is likely to end his days there.
“That’s the worst of going to Court, the
habit becomes chronic.” ’Tis but a step from
St. James’s to the Insolvent Court.
Bachelor Chief Justice Way pays a visit
to grass-widower Gov. Robinson at Perth, shortly.
The pair ought to enjoy themselves.
Cabled that coming N.S.W. Gov. Duff
lias been G.C.M.G.’d that he may, at Potts
Point, V>e treated with due duffei-ence.
A sporting Sydney barrister is said to have
laid £5OO to £5 that the Full Court would uphold
the appeal in the Makin baby-murder case.
“Iloppy” Simmons, until lately a well-
known Melbourne broker-pressman, is now private
secretary in Westralia to Premier Forrest.
W. A. Horn, the millionaire friend of Gov.
Kintore, accompanies the latter’s family to Eng-
land. It is considered certain that he will return
at least a duke.
Russell-Jones, a Sydney attorney (loq.) to
the N.S.W. Full Court: “ How could I get a
living with the establishment I have to keep up if
Law were Justice ?”
Shackell and Gillies chummed at the Mel-
bourne Agricultural Show, the other day. Once
upon a time Shackell spent £3OOO in trying to
oust Gillies in Rodney.
Reported, in London, that the Earl of
Rosebery (the only British peer who ever made a
real impression in Australia) is about to marry
Princess Maud of Wales —aged 23.
Bishop Reunion (S.A.), who is chiefly
remarkable, as a bishop, for wearing a flannel suit
and a straw hat in hot weather, instead of the
orthodox knee-breeches, silk stockings, and funereal
tile, takes Mrs. Kennion for a trip to England in
May.
“Phoenix” is the
nickname of a rich
Melbournian who has
had several fires.
The first appear-
ance of Tom Curran,
sen., erstwhile of Syd-
ney, as a full-blown
“mimber of an alien
parlymint,” was pro-
ductive of some
amusement, writes
The Bulletin’s Lon-
don correspondent.
Attending the Com-
mons for the first
time, Tom bowldly
walked up to the
table without the
formality of being
introduced by two
sponsors, and pro-
ceeded, amidst cries
of “orda’, orda’,”
from the Tory
benches, to seize a
pen for the purpose of
signingtheroll. Tom,
unabashed by these
monkey cries, held
his ground and ac-
tually entered into
an argument with
“Mr. Speaker,” who
tried to point out to
him that he was com-
mitting a breach of
etiquette. But Tom
maintained his
right to come to the
table without intro-
duction as he had
been elected a member
of the last Parlia-
ment, and, therefore,
could not be con-
sidered a new m;*n.
However, just at this
juncture Dr. Tanner
and another Irish
member came to the
rescue, and mine host
of the Ox o d was
sworn with all for-
mality, amidst cheers
and laughter. It is
not given to every
member to enter pub-
lic life in so amusing
a fashion.
A country correspondent sent down from
somewhere near the Barrier to a Sydney evening
paper a few days back a “ collect ” telegram stat-
ing that the local mayor had cut his hair.
Pope Leo XIII. phonographs his blessings
to his faithful American subjects. Potted bless-
ings. None genuine without the Pope’s head
blown on the bottle. See that you get ’em.
That grand old scientist, Dr. George
Bennett, of Sydney, aged 90, has commenced to
break up his splendid scientific library. He has
E resented the zoological portion of it to Sydney
Jniversity.
The Bulli tin gladly notes that Maoriland
Premier Balance is at hist able to attend a Cab'net
meeting. The splendid Democratic work of Mr.
Ballance and his colleagues is an object-lesson for
the world.
Tyson is not a golden synonym merely in
Australia. Tyson Yerkes, cable-tram magnate, is
the richest Chicago millionaire, and has given
£lOO,OOO for the University telescope, which will
be the finest on earth.
Griffith has not been seen in Queen-street,
Brisbane, for months. Time was when he
careered proudly down the street on a raking bay
horse. Latterly he takes invariably to the side
streets in a hooded buggy.
The Duke of Westminster is cablegraphecl
as denouncing Gladstone furiously. He used to
be the G.O.M.’s prime henchman. The finest
portrait of Gladstone was painted for this Duke,
who so’d it, in his rage—for an advance.
The name of Father Morrissey appeared
among the passengers by the Kallatina, from
Grafton to Sydney, last Friday. We presume the
good father was coming down to explain all about
those light refreshments to the Cardinal.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs’ bankruptcy
strengthens The Bulletin’s fast-growing con-
viction that Dibbs and Parkes are really the
same person in disguise, and that he only sits
opposite to himself in the Assembly to conceal his
identity.
The Review of Reviews for February, in
its article on Brisbane Courier, confounds Brun-
ton Stephens, the poet, with T. C, Stephens, the
tanner. The latter was the part-owner of the old
Moreton Bay Courier, and is father to Willie
Stephens, the Q. boy politician.
The Marquis of Queensberry has written
an indignant letter to G. R. Sims, who ventured
to laugh at his “views” on matrimony. When
Queensberry was in Australia he wrote an indig-
nant letter to The Bulletin. He is the most
consistently angry Marquis on earth.
James Marsland, committed for trial in
Sydney for harbouring bank-manager Bennett,
was formerly, when in Melbourne, manager for
architect “ Billy ” Pitt, M.L.C. He was a clever
draughtsman and chiefly responsible for the band-
some Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Some ages : —George Coppin, 74 ; Dr.
Neild, 69; H. R. Harwood and Max Kreitmayer,
62; J. R. Greville and Fred Zeplin, 59; John
Hennings, 58 ; J. C. Williamson, 49 ; David Cope,
45; Arthur Garner, 42; George Musgrove, 40;
Robert Brough, 37; Dot Boucicault, 34.
The incoming Governor Duff, of N.S.W.,
has been made a “Grand Cross of St. Michael
and St. George.” This, probably, with a view to
the abolition of plain “ Missus ” Duff, who can
now, thank God, meet the large and varied assort-
ment of N.S.W. “Ladies ” on equal terms.
“ So,” writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “ Dr. Diamond Beaney is to have
a memorial in Canterbury Cathedral after all;
and it is to be unveiled in a few days—by
Henniker Heaton ! Yet everybody knows that he
always blamed Heaton (not without reason) for
HE WASN’T IMPRESSED.
1ST WORKINGMAN (Tory) : “Bill, d’yer see this about opening the
Himperinl Hinstitute? — (Beads.) —' Her Majesty will appear in
full instead of half state! ’”
2ND WORKINGMAN (Radical) : “What’s that! I appear in a full state
every Saturday night meself.”
being the moving spirit, sub rosa, against the
acceptance of the gift of a Mechanics Institute to
the Cathedral City.”
When Jawbone Neild, M.L.A., Grand-
Master of the N.S.W. Orangemen, visited Dubbo
the (t!ur day, ho was received and escorted
through the town by the grave-digger
Pan-on Wilson, a local barber, and an undertaker.
None other occupied a place in the one-horse
SOC-i 1 1 >le.
Mr. George Lockett, the young man
who recently married the only daughter of
Colonel North, the millionaire Nitrate King, is
a son of a well-known big Liverpool shipowner,
in whose office Premier Di libs served tinny yea is
ago. The Locketts thought much of the Gibbs’
honesty and business acumen.
INVALIDS
Can safely rely on Wolfe’s Schnapps. Unsolicited
testimonials from medical gentlemen testify to its
merits.
When, by reason of a cold or from any other
cause, the secretory organs become disordered,
they may be stimulated to healthy action by the
use of Ayer’s Cathartic Pills. Sold by all dealers
in medicine.
It would be uniquely interesting were i fc
possible that the nine libel actions brought against
Sydney Daily Telegraph by the members of the
N.S.W. Ministry could be lumped together as
one, having only one main issue ; damages, if
any, to be awarded to each plaintiff according to
the jury’s estimate of his personal character.
It i seriously averred that when two
French travellers in Maoriland were introduced
recently to ex-Premier Robert Stout, that gentle-
man’s first question was : “ Do they talk much
about me in France?” The above statement is
probably a lie. Mr. Stout would hardly ask such
a question ; he would be much more likely to take
it for granted.
Parson Highflyer, who stutters, was exhort-
ing his Jumbarumba flock, when two earnest dogs
commenced a theological argument between the
pews. The good sporting parson stopped suddenly
in his impassioned discourse, paused, and then,
stuttering with excitement—“ Well, dud-dud-
dearly b’luv’ bub-bub-brethren, wh-what’s it to
be? Sus-sus-sermon ? Or dud-dud-doe-fight ?
Bub-bnb-because, if you w-vvant a dud-dud-dog-
fight, I’ll back my tut-tut-terrier slut to fight any
dud-dud-dog in jum-jum- Jumbarumba ! ” Story
probably an invention of Satan.
Old Vermilion
Palmer (Q.) always
refers to himself as
Sir Harthur !
A certain Sydney
quack, who has not
advertised for years,
boasts that he has
£150,000 in solid cash
at the banks. He
accumulated most of
his undoubtedly great
wealth by charging
each patient £25 for
the followin g A
box of pills, an electric
shock (such as can be
bought at any church
bazaar for a penny),
and general advice
such as can be learned
gratis by watching a
horse or a cow.
James Dunlop,
of South Brisbane,
who died 11th inst.,
was one of the pioneer
surveyors of Moreton
Bay. In ’4O, he, with
G. C. Staplyton and
Tuck, were surprised
at Mt. Lindsay by
blacks. His com-
panions were battered
to death. Some of
their mates, who had
been absent, found
Dunlop dying, as they
supposed, in a dense
scrub into which he
had crawled, and left
him there as a hope-
less case, while they
hurried with their
news to Commandant
Gorman. A “re-
venge ” party, how-
ever, found Dunlop
still alive, he having
crawled deeper into
the scrub, while most
of Staplyton had been
cut up and carried off
by the natives, pre-
sumably to be cooked
and eaten. Two of
his murderers were
the first men hanged
at Brisbane*.
Riston contributes a graceful preface to
Signora Majeroni’s story, “ A Living Statue,”
referring to the intuition of genius with which
Majeroni appreciated his parts. Looking back on
Majeroni. what a noble gentleman he was, and
what an example of humanity and honour his life
affords to the Australian dramatic profession !
M. H. Davies frivols with his drooping
auburn moustachioes in Court, but the eyes are
anxiously anticipating the only end of it all that’s
possible. Millidge assumes a heavy tragedian
sidelong glance at the witness, but he fidgets
nervously. Bell looks pathetic and turns to the
fateful clock ever and anon. The others seem
stupidly terrified.
The charges of incompotency against
Allison Smith, of the Vic. railways, are altogether
too violent and sweeping. No trained engineer,
possessing a grain of intelligence, was ever such a
persistent failure as A.S. is said to be. Personal
animus seems to flash out fitfully from the
evidence of the engine-drivers and others who
have sworn away their superintendent’s pro-
fessional character.
Speaking of the re-christening of the
“ Qua de Lesseps,” at Rouen, Sydney Echo : “ A
fallen hero receives short shrift in France.” In
France only ? In all countries in all times ! For
an example peculiarly gratifying to the Echo
constituency: A tablet in the wall of a big Mel-
bourne coffee-palace recorded that the foundation-
stone had been laid by a certain land-boomer.
When he was convicted they cut the stone out
instanter.
John Haynes, M.P. (N.S.W. ), re a wanton
Parliamentary question asked by his co-legislator
and political enemy, “ Andy” Kelly, indignantly
•denies that a certain Haynes, now in gaol, is a
kinsman of his—none of his relatives have been in
gaol. A neat revenge is open to John. Let him
wait until someone named Kelly gets into quod,
and then ask questions about him “at” Andy
Kelly. There’s sure to be some Kelly or other in
gaol soon.
J. B. Thompson (a Brisbane survey-office
draftsman), in bis book on British New Guinea,
alludes to guesses as “our prolific assumptive
boldness.” One* Chairman Tally, of Brisbane
Land Board, ; sked Thompson what he would call
a spade. Thompson, after a moment’s delibera-
tion, gravely replied : “In a scientific treatise,
Mr. Tally, I would call it tie* familiar implement
employed by agriculturists in gcoponio opera-
tions.”
Notable that no Victorian or S. A. Judge
possesses a title, if Casey’s O.M.G. is ignored as
it deserves to la*. It is related of Casey, who was
Victoria’s ropresentativo at a Paris Inhibition
years ago, that he felt tempted to fling back the
C. M.G., and the Legion of Honour, because the
indiscriminating officials gave duplicates of both
baubles to his secretary, George Collins, the
Hebrew gentleman who dislikes his ancient family,
name of Levy.
Speaking of the deceased Lowe, thus
Justin M'Carthy : “In 1866 7 ho deliberately
challenged these three giants of debate (Glad-
stone, Disraeli, and Bright) and held his own
against them all There was not much
left of him after 1867. He had fonr-and-twenty
resplendent months and the rest was little- better
than silence. I am well aware that I have not
explained the success of the four-and-twenty
resplendent months ; I cannot explain it. I only
mention the fact. The success soon faded, lan-
guished, grew dim, and died.”
A Sydney Fort-street school legend of the
sixties. Assistant-master Bridges was examining
a class in geography. “Which is the highest
mountain in the world?” Masters Heydon,
King, Delville and Jackie Jones were clever boys’
but this floored them. But it didn't puzzle one
pert youngster who held up his hand. “ Well ? ”
said Bridges. “ Taranaki, sir.” (Loud laughter.)
“ How do you make that out, my lad ? ” “ Because
I have seen it, sir.” The yelling became uncon-
trollable, and that smart boy was ever afterwards
HJ
THE DE SESSION.
BROWN ( comparatively prosperous, to Jones, down in the mouth): “Look
here, old man, I’m very sorry, but I’m being desperately
pressed, and if you don’t pay me what you owe I’ll have to
make you insolvent.”
JONES: “Wish to God you would. I haven’t got the cash to file my
own schedule.”
nicknamed by his comrades —“Taranaki.” The
boy—foreshadowed father to the cocksure man!—
was John Cash Neild, now affectionately known
as Jawbone Neild, M.P.
John Ferguson, of Cumberland Times
(Parramatta, N.S.W.), who pleaded guilty, the
other day, to libelling Messrs. Crick and Willis,
M’s.P., has let the oat out of the bag by admitting
that he had relied (in case of adverse judgment)
“with the utmost confidence on the generous sup-
port of the political party (Foreign-trade) whose
cause we have for upwards of 20 years steadfastly
upheld.” That the fat man has rounded on John is
apparent from this volcanic sigh ;
From this day forth we wash from our hands the slime
of their base ingratitude and disgusting selfishness, and
kick from our feet against them the dust of our scorn and
contempt. We are loth to reach our grand climacteric
within the walls of a prison, and we appeal to our subscri-
bers in arrears, &c.
John presents himself with a “character” which
The Bulletin does not mind partially and timidly
endorsing:—
Even when having partaken of cups that made us friendly
warm v we never were addicted to chawing up the glass
from which we drank the generous liquor, nor resorting
to any other antic to attract the attention of a vigilant
police.
He tenders thanks to three Ms.P. who have, be-
tween them, ante’d up <£4, but is restrained from
mentioning their names.
TIME AND TIDE WAIT FOR NO MAN.
If you neglect a remedy when affected with
disease, it will gain a greater hold on your system.
Wolfe’s Schnapps an admirable stimulant.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
a l A.rcade, Sydney.
— C OO
Charlemont ai'e glad to find that the
ppreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
Bams rapidly. The new process possesses all the
nerits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
via without doubt establish itself very soon as
_iie of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
i holography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 3'J Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
PEMELT/S
Wll E ATEN A.
The derm of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem.
Advice to Yount' Mon—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
22 «i 24 €lar«'i»ce-strc«*t,
SYDNEY.
f
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing Kigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the variousy
— WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St,, Sydney.
d
POLITICAL
POINTS
Master Labour-Cheat,
S.A. Assembly nominates April 8 ; the
elections, April 15.
The National Ass generously otters the
people the thistles,
Lilley has at his feet the political football
if he cares to kick it.
Griffith ascends to the Bench. No. The
Bench descends to Griffith.
Too many democrats and too little de-
mocracy. That s the evil 1
Now that the Argus has come down to a
penny, the Age’s only hope lies in honesty.
It is more than likely that the Wagga
Labour-party will bring out a man against Dibbs,
Willis, M.P. (N.S.W.) : “ The previous
speaker has simply echoed what I was about to
remark.”
The S.A. Land Co. owns, among its other
possessions, 22,5G7 acres of the “unimproved”
value of £807,116-
Passengers on Q. railways may notice that
many of the porters are boys, from 16 years
upwards. “ Commercial ” economy.
Vic. Government’s “ heafty co-operation ”
with palsied banks is simply bluff. Treasurer
Carter regards a State bank with horror.
The Bouse of Commons majority vote of
47 in favour of payment of members is a nasty
set-back for the Australian National Ass.
Americans don’t believe in the Australian
Natives’ Association, and say the world would
ridicule an American Natives’ Association.
How many uncertificated insolvents are
there in N.S. Wales Legislative Assembly? In
Victoria an unoertificated insolvent cannot hold a
seat.
If Labour is beaten, let it own up. The
Melbourne tram-men are whipped, as the Broken
Hillers were. Another moral for the Higinbotham
statue.
Parson-journalist M‘Ewin, a candidate for
Gumeracha (S.A.), urges, as a reason for support,
that he is “ a brother-in-law of Sir John
Downer.”
Ex-Chief Justice Lilley (Q.): “I have
taken no more notice of the discussions of the last
Assembly than I would have taken of a battle
between kites.”
Jawbone Neild, M.P. (N.S.W.), favours,
not the abolition of the Upper House, but a
Legislative Council “one-third nominee and two-
thirds elective.”
Adelaide daily papers make all but the
leading politicians, of whom there are less than
half-a-dozen, pay for the reporting and insertion
of their election speeches !
Much comment in S.A. labour-circles re
the fact that a man who failed to secure a labour
nomination is now working hard for Premier
Downer in Barossa district.
The N.S.W. Clerk of Parliament (screw
£960 per annum) is giving his life away inch by
inch in the service of his country, ” says Premier
Dibbs. “ What is he givin’ us ? ”
I- ■lt is stated that a Melb. Trades Hall
official wrote a remarkably obsequious application
for the vacant billet of defaulter Humphries, late
secretary to the Employers’ Union !
A National Ass candidate for a S.A,
district recently astonished his audience by alleg-
ing that it is the declared policy of the Almighty
to maintain private property in land.
Taking a recent leader as a criterion, S.A.
Register timorously advocatesa “vote for thrift”
m S.A., a “reform ” which even the local Ass has
not the pluck to openly advocate in that Democratic
province.
Electors ! Support the National Ass and
you support the sale of the State railways and the
sale of labour into slavery. Sell the railways and
you buy colossal industrial struggles ending in
civil war.
n ■^ >rem^er Playford (S.A.) now supports*
' Ur - Cookburn’s election of Ministers idea, bor-
rowed from Switzerland. The proposal will pro-
nably have increased support in the new
Assembly.
The rejection of Dow, junior, for Kara
„ ara (Wc.), is a sign that the electors will not-
low the authorities to monkey with their rights,
peaker Bent's paltering over the writ sent
Anderson m.
At least half-a-dozen S.A. Parliamentary"
candidates, realising the unpopularity of the
ational Ass, have turned their backs upon the
reature. Even little Judas Johnson, its pa. feels
the handicap.
Mr E. W. O’Sullivan on the N.S.W.
orestry Department: “Every forest ranger has-
Parliament, One is father-in-law of
ex-Mimster; another, son of a late Minister for
ands; another, brother of a late Minister for
mes; another, son of a member of the Lower
T ,? USe v T an °thcr, a son-in-law of a member of the
Lower House-and so on.
The Bulletin delights iu seeing N.S. W.
Retrenchment-party lai-gely take the conduct of
business out of the Ministry’s hands —the Ministry
calmly enduring the process. It tends to show
that party-government is dying.
P.M.G. Sholl (W.A.) asked of that vast
and splendid sheep-occupied, squatter-grabbed
arable tract, Darling Downs (Q.): “But where
are the people?” Well, mostly sitting on the
kerbing outside the Brisbane labour-bureau.
Little Matters, who is trying to defeat
Dr. Cookburn at Mount Barker, S.A., has issued
an election address with his photograph decorating
the middle of it. He is a pious dealer in suburban
allotments, who has made money and yearns for
fame.
Save the Worker, there isn’t a straight
Democratic paper in Queensland to-day. One
plank in the Coalition’s platform was the purchase
of those that were. That’s why there are so
many Democratic editors unemployed up North
at present.
Amongst people acquainted with the inner
working of the Vic. railways it is jokingly said
that a minor billet in that Aou-ridden department
would always be available for the young man who
brought a card, or letter of introduction, from
David Syme.
The S. A. Opposition policy of reducing th e
term of Legislative Councillors, and lowering th e
qualification to £lO freehold, was not even men-
tioned by Downer at Gawler. The Downer
Ministry should be short-lived if the Opposition
and Labour-party unite.
The Brisbane Govt, has no funds available
to pump out the Eclipse mine and recover the
bodies of the drowned miners. But it has always
had plenty of funds in hand to keep up a
luxurious steam-yacht for Sam Griffith and his
parasites to idle about in.
According to Adelaide Quiz: “Judge
Boucaut does not think the English people would
stand soldiers being sent against Ulster rebels.”
Perhaps they wouldn’t. Perhaps the English
peqpffi have realised that it isn’t soldiers, but one
policeman, that the occasion is likely to demand.
Owing to the industrious employment of
canvassers by the plutocracy, hundreds of
voters—all of the working-class—have been dis-
AN OUT WEST COMPLIMENT.
STIFFIIN: “Hey, mister, that was strike-me-dead sorter stuff I got tanked on last night.”
MINE HOST (affably) : “Yes, that was—the real M'Coy.
franchised in Adelaide and suburbs. The favom ite
game is to work things so that the victims receive
about two days’ notice —in ,S.A. Government
Gazette !
The birth-rate in Maoriland is steadily
decreasing, while the marriage-rate continues to
increase. Births have not only decreased in pro-
portion to the population, but, notwithstanding
the large increase in population, the births regis-
tered in 1892 were only 17,870, as compared to
19,840 so far back as 1884 !
The terrible straits to which Maoriland
has been reduced by the manner in which its
Democratic Government has “driven out capital,”
is instanced by the fact that the Union B ink of
Australia has just undertaken to provide Wel-
lington with a drainage loan of £los,o(lo—at
per cent, with a minimum of 99.
Premier Downer received a nasty rebuff at
Gawler (S. A.), when prooldining the Government
policy. He referred, sarcastically, to Opposition
leaders Holder and Cookburn, and the progressive
land-tax. The audience interrupted with loud
and prolonged cheers. Downer looked 'as if he
could go through the floor, so apparent was his
chagrin.
If N.S.W. Minister Lyne says another
word in favour of selling- the State-railways or
allowing syndicates to make and connect branch-
lines with the State trunks, it will be the duty of
every Democrat to smash him and the Ministry
with which he is connected. To sell the railways
■will be to out Labour’s throat and put Agriculture
into leg-irons.
Little (Q.) once declared that he would
never re-enter Parliament unless driven to it by
poverty. Four ex-Ministers on the Freetrade
side, in N.S.W., have, within the past week, made
a similar declaration respecting acceptance of
portfolios in the future. But they only think they
mean it. Office is a disease—-like Parkes’ hair, or
living at Manly.
The Maoriland Government has taken over
another big estate ; the owner valued it for taxa-
tion purposes at £100,332, and the “Crown took
it at that. The last purchase, the Cheviot estate,
promises to sell in small farm blocks at fully 50
per cent, profit, and has been applied for six
times over, ” says a cable. A lesson for the Aus-
tralian Governments.
It is generally believed that the Victorian
railway employes’ testimonial, which was to have
been a mammoth affair, embracing contributions
from some 11,000 men, to their late popular chief,
Speight, fell through from lack of enthusiasm.
This was not the case. The true cause may, we
are informed, be sought for in the issue of a cir-
cular, strictly forbidding any officer in the depart-
ment so marking his sympathy with Speight.
Says the cable : “ Three cargo steamers
which have arrived in New York from British
ports had explosives secreted in the holds. It is
believed that this is a conspiracy among seamen
to destroy vessels.” In other words, it is a scheme
of the seamen to blow themselves up and spread
their own remains all over the Atlantic. And, of
course, it can’t, by any chance whatever, be a
scheme of other people to get at the marine in-
surance companies.
Ex-Chief Justice Lilley has strong reason
for hesitation about re-entering public life. His
doctors are not quite certain whether he does not
suffer from aortal aneurism; They tell him to
devote his leisure to rose-growing. But he will
nevertheless re-enter Parliament if an uncontested
seat be offered him. There is a lot of “bluff”
yet left in the old gentleman, but not too much
hard work. A requisition with over 1000 signa-
tures has reached him from Charters Towers.
N.S.W. Treasurer See: “Success iu life
means brains.” Up-end it : Do brains mean suc-
cess in life? Look at See. He is a success in life
— i.e., he has succeeded in becoming the Treasurer
of his province; but not on account of his financial
ability, which is the laughing-stock of the Trea-
sury officials. The poorest little Jew boy in any
bill-discounter’s office could give him points in
figures. See should accept his “ success in life ’
without attempting to philosophise about it. Let
him not look his gift-horse in the mouth.
Unmack, the skiu-fliut German who has
officiated as Queensland Postmaster - General,
asserts that 10s. a week, without board, is quite
enough to keep a working-man intheNorthern pro-
vince. Miss Shaw, the lady who was sent out
by the Times to apologise for Kanaka slavery,
goes one better :
Queensland differs greatly from South Africa. It is
essentially the poor man’s country. Meat, bread, and
vegetables are so cheap that a man lives largely with
three meat meals a day and other small luxuries at a cost
of ss. a week.
Free passes over the Yic. railways are
still to be issued to “distinguished visitors on
approval of the Minister.” The one conceivable
explanation of this*proviso is J. B. Patterson’s
desire to make himself right with the casual
tourist whose “ good word ” may seem to have
some value. Distinguished visitors are seldom or
never distinguished for anything better than their
money, and why the man who is singularly well
able to pay should be exempted from payment on
that account is a mystery which only a high-
minded, retrenching Premier can explain.
The S.A. Railway Commissioners, flying
in the face of their regulations which prescribe
two weeks’ notice, dismissed, at 48 hours’ warning,
four loco, employes who had dared to accept the
nomination of the United Labour-party as Par-
liamentary candidates for city constituencies.
Wcrks Minister Grayson-who was once em-
ployed in the same department, but who by per-
sistent office-seeking has earned a few shekels—on
being appealed to privately on behalf of the men
gave his terse opinion: “Servants who aspire to
be masters deserve to be sacked.”
United States Judges consistently refuse
to deal with constitutional questions unless these
are incidentally raised in the ordinary course of
legal proceedings. Chief Justice Griffith (Q.), on
the other hand, has had himself proclaimed
“ legal adviser to the Government.” Griffith’s
opinion on constitutional law is not worth a rush ;
nay, more, it is absolutely challengeable as the
biased view of an interested partisan. Also, a
Chief Justice who declines to retire from party
politics deliberately chooses an indefensible and a
malodorous position. Particularly so, a Chief
Justice with Griffith’s acrobatic political record.
THIS USEFUL AUXILIARY,
Wolfe’s Schnapps, is a capital preservative of
health, and is an excellent remedy for Biliousness,
Rheumatism, and Gout.
The treatment of N.S.W, motor-driver
Yolk is an excellent example of bureaucratic
socialism as opposed to social democracy.
Unmack, tired of office, will support the
new Queensland Ministry “as long as they
adhere to the principles of their predecessors ”
who never had any principles. A satirical dog,
Mr. Oonmack.
If the new N.S.W. Electoral Bill becomes
law it will be no longer necessary, as in the Dibbs
case, to pass a resolution in the Assembly declar-
ing the seat of a resigning member vacant. Under
the Constitution, the receipt of a letter of resig-
nation by the Speaker was sufficient until the
now-existing Electoral Act passed a new con-
dition.
Chairman of Committees Jacob (N.S.W.
Council) is hurt in his tenderest part by the
Assembly’s reduction of his salary. Such a per-
sonal application of his own statement that these
high positions of State do not require to be
salaried, men of leisure and attainment being
eager to fill them for the honour and glory thereof,
quite disconcerted him. He shows his gaping
wounds over-plainly to readers of the S.M.
Herald.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott, declining to con-
sider “ hypothetical cases,” refusing to “imagine
that the N.S.W. Assembly could be so foolish,”
would not attempt to answer Mr. Lang well’s
question as to what would happen if the Assembly
refused to declare Dibbs’ seat vacant. But the
matter was serious, the point deserving of con-
sideration. According to the Constitution Act,
Dibbs’ letter of resignation made him no longer a
member ; while, according to the Elections Act, a
resolution of the Assembly was necessary to
declare the seat vacant. Thus, the Assembly’s
refusal would have deprived the Murrumbidgee
of the right to elect a member in Dibbs’ place
just as long as it maintained its stand—say, to a
general election.
Item for the land-grant railway swindlers
of Australia and the people who want to sell the
railways to foreign syndicates ;
The railway system owned by the Canadian-Pacific is
6600 miles in length, and has raised a capital of some
£24,000,000. But, beyond this, the Government pre-
sented the company with a grant-in-aid of £5,000,000,
with lines constructed at a cost of £6.000,000, and with
25,000,000 a. of land contiguous to the line, while subse-
quently it guaranteed a dividend for 10 years on the
shares, and interest on some of the bonded debt. As a
land-grant railway company the Canadian-Pacific is a
success, but it has cost the Canadian Government fully as
much as if they had built the lino themselves, and in that
case the line would have belonged to the Government,
and so would the acres.
In other words, Canada built the Canadian-Pacific
railway and then gave it away. Private owner
ship generally comes to about that in the end.
What Every Lady Wants to Know.
HOW LOVELY COMPLEXIONS ARE ACQUIRED AND
HOW THEY MAY BE RETAINED.
it is the height of every lady’s ambition to be
the possessor of a beautiful complexion. To acquire
that delicate, soft, rose-tinted condition of the
skin, which is like velvet to the touch and
alabaster to the eye, has been the desire of every
woman from the days of the beautiful Helen of
Troy to the present time. The part that lovely
complexions have played in the history of this
world would form an interesting study. It would
be a tale of gallant knights and ladies fair, of
intrigues, jealousies, and wars, of kingdoms lost
and won.
Specialists have struggled with this subject for
centuries, and to-day, with cosmetics, powder
puffs, lotions, and washes for the face, yet they
are no nearer the real solution of the matter than
were their brethren of a hundred years ago.
Cosmetics and powders only make a bad matter
worse, by filling the pores of the skin with im-
purities, and throwing the burden of its labours
upon other and more sensitive organs of the body.
The secret of a beautiful complexion is simply a
matter of pure, healthy, throbbing blood. There
is an intimate relation between the kidneys and
the skin. Both have an eliminating process to
perform. The kidneys relieve the blood of its
uric acid, the skin of its watery matter. When
the kidneys are congested for any length of time
they are unable to perform their functions, and an
additional burden is thrown upon the skin, with
the result that the blood becomes poor and the
circulation impaired. The effects upon the skin
are pimples, blotches, and boils. These cannot be
removed by lotions and powders. Nature has her
own method, her own way. It is true that the
effect is seen upon the surface ; but the cause is
deep-seated, and is located in the kidneys. There
is to be found the root of all the trouble. Free
the kidneys from the poison that has partially
paralysed them, and the blood will be pure—will
possess all the elements of health; boils and
pimples will disappear, the velvet and bloom will
return to the cheek, and the result will be a clear
skin, a bright mind, a good appetite, and the
power to enjoy every hour of life.
The secret of a beautiful complexion, then, is
healthy kidneys and pure blood. The two latter
can be obtained by the use of Warner’s Safe Cure,
and with its use will come the former. It should
be taken at once upon the first indication of any
roughness of the skin, and if persevered in it will
not only prevent the appearance of blotches, black-
heads, and boils, but will soon restore the com-
plexion to that delicate condition which is the
delight of ladies and the despair of art.
Mrs. Annie Jenness Medcr, 23 W. 125th Street,
New York, the originator of the Dress Reform
Movement, says: “Warner’s Safe Cure is the
only medicine I ever take or recommend. It is a
wonderful tonic, and gives new energy and
vitality to all my powers.”


FALL IN THE PRICE OF SILVER.
' London, Tuesday Night.—Bar silver
experienced another fall in price to-day,
the present quotation being 3s I|d per
ounce.
. ' )au
- way Y to buy ci b'wij- ■'
- Tiy or sili/er?
J>uNPfIWNJ£K - 'Silver of
Courje afford i\n
ifj<lse ilyes.
UeEP Ov^f\iT.
\ush)i ijer , To\)y. ftese arc
yot n'joe.
Joyo - /111 I laljc uer?
' \jonje sleep
tjitflt. jßityfby you CcM] 07
To glleg nftec. !
,/t-
fd
Cv(d\WV
4 TO /\ FIIMISH
Or ryill
La*) apo^
little 1170.17, cu
Pi‘o&pei*ous -future 117
Store 1
N. 5 V\) Prosperous
be blamed
f most urjeijtlij yfechj
a joroijoei’ous joi’eaepf.,
Sut^at^iyg
fts
mioi, 1
abo^ o^
c-ighta/rd e/?/frfa///mq
I/'/et-a /Tire
BABY SCHOLARS
In replying to a deputation yesterday, Mr
F. B. Suitor. M.P. t sa/ei
' Many of the schools wera
filled up by Infants who would bo very much'
•better at home, and in view of the necessity
for economy it was quite fair to request the
parents to keep them at homo,' and to rofUse'
them admission to the classes.
Fra thiTr in h/s CAP
Of OF Aftj
London, Friday Night.—A prominent
military authority haa expressed the
opinipri that the bullet-proof cloth, which
the Austrian War Office claim to bare
obtained for their troops, is unhealthy.
He does not believe it will resist
bullets.
/s ff*f~ ftafflp Tfir /tw/js wuM
e&M ffotf Tfivurf /fF &7?fiS—
fas. *
f
CHIEFLY IN NEW SOUTH WALES,


KfIILMW Bou
iAQE OFFICE
J.t.Dow cos n<eturn€<i tJT
/«.
loiit-nalifm
I n Ike*>
T? 1 ccmti'm'^,
N, V
•i
Mone7 {
Fee s
(g>
df
th** k *
1 jo r ‘Wf
Jiigerieticfe proves that there is ho Siibh
tmhg its linAUtyj bveri in so desperately awful
ft' matter as the throwing tip of a barrister’s
brief* Mr. C. A* Smyth, who last week had
dropped a bombshell into the Railway
Inquiry Board by retiring in high dudgeon
from the case, yesterday returned td the
scene Of his former triumphs, and was
Welcomed with alj that natural effusion
■'which attaches by tradition to the return of
the prodigal. " ' ’ ~
ifttioViei- h paints fall-
d
I
\w\
p
%
% .
%
£ J-
\ 1
j/S E; L L-
'- ; ; - •'-f • Q* IX Carter is of
: opinion that f tjks system of dummying shares
‘.tan oo putt donrt hy mesas cf the
fdr-ers cod barred by the Bank Shareo
Salo and Purchase Act passed Usi
session to /regulate thS transfer .of ban’-
shares; • i
Q f~o ckit'p fieF—Yo-vc re. n t n /o' ‘
kill hoi/} of Tny- fierforminif
- H i-Xi n-x ali, f a /-a pu? ” **
/re &.§ urcr Carter-. Willy “-/>/> oSe Jsma-s/j ~//ie /> ecu'- wf oi%
& Jeunftroll hear «, zc Z yVm-r/e lull "euliftU of
cor-dial -73- /iel' J „
c o nj- ic/ene,^.?
h
* Mi URy
I£M c H
m
HISiHEPUSAL OF THE AGENT-
GENERALSHIP.
..
C,/Uies_J'jVp dear "bo/, I h°' V /.
i\< cUclasioV.^' 8 ?
d-urty u** \ eTe -'*
Lf»
CoofiT 5
|OOM_TROUBV^
/Itx Ov~sTer I*iro j**t~ b-« circunijtt-tiwßs
a.ncf xcfeT t TncJie.% ~tJiie-J i Jccn\Va\\
%'s "_ ?7eurs V^MV'
fd
"alvez-1
Hou P- LA I
Merrf filt/c /UlisonJmilli am( Kis
'jpei' loconxpllt/'e-
cl ** s steel some 'oj^ihe
S[aiZlii\(£ \ c \7icl eix ecu-
,y*
fr
T o 1~
ULSjMj
/$ I'U, jnou. te cl
S on
% £ 1 7 h.aJt' ~f C Zo cc! Ora- fx 0~ B TTI e/x oc „
“ fo* -fi-cLf; /rxlends 7T * o
° n ejj.
A LOOK HOUND IN MELBOURNE.


O O D SPEC.
SAFE, PROFITABLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold orushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coining along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from £lO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title,
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1885), ,M)0 IMM-sl . Sydney, N.H.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE. PERTH, W.A.
THE BEST MEDICAL AUTHORITIES
Admit that much of the prevailing insomnia is
attributable to chronic indigestion. Use Wolfe’s
Schnapps, the restorer for indigestion.
As a toilet article, Ayer’s Hair Vigor stands
unrivalled. It cleanses the scalp and removes
dandruff, cures itching humors, restores the
original color to faded and gray hair, and pro-
motes its growth
THE UNEXPECTEDNESS WITH WHICH
Death is attended shows that if life is to be pro-
longed the system must be kept healthy.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a pure tonic and appetiser.
Advice to Young Mon—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
PAUSODONOPTIO SPECTACLES
A.MLd Eyeglasses.
rpHESE are the most comfortable and most soothing
glasses made, and the best preservatives for the sight.
Send for our Treatise: “Spectacles, their use, when
required, and how to purchase.” SENT FREE.
Frost & Shipham,
THE SPECTACLE MAKERS,
463, 474 & 687 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Society
Miss Jessie Ackerman, the bright, particu-
lar star of the Women’s Christian Temperance
Union, the Yankee showwoman whose “I done
it’’occurs as frequently as does that of Henry
Parkes, the she-saviour who claims to have
“ organised about 200 unions ” in Australia, all
witli her own shrill tongue, is, poetically enough,
a passenger to America in the same vessel that
is taking the Sydney “liquor exhibits” to
Chicago (U.S. A.). Miss Jessie’s departure is in
harmony witli her theatrical first appearance
before her Sydney worshippers. Enthroned, like
a modern Cleopatra, armed with a huge fan, she
graciously received on a public platform humble
deputations of welcome from various bodies.
Presently a huge bouquet was borne up to her,
and, later, she spoke “to the occasion.” Pluck-
ing from the wreath a pansy, she commenced to
rhapsodise concerning the thrilling feelings that
wilted her soul as she inhaled its delicious
fragrance ! Probably she had first syringed her
maiden nostrils with scent ? For, look you, just
pluck a pansy at the first chance you get, and tell
others of its perfume ! And there is a Sydney
florist who knows that the big bouquet, herein
referred to, was purchased beforehand by—Miss
Jessie Ackerman.
# * *
Though it is generally believed that the
aboriginal element of Tasmania is utterly extinct,
a large number of half-castes and quadroons still
perpetuate the, woolly - headed race of which
Truganini was the last pure-blood. They seem of
hardier quality, too, than their Australian con-
geners, for the descendants of the autochthones
have mostly large and healthy families. They
chiefly abound in the islands of the Straits, where
they are prosperous and prolific, with which fact
the oleaginous and luscious mutton-bird may have
something to do. These birds they eat until the
oil fairly oozes from their pores, and makes people
possessing noses endeavour to get to windward of
the island nobility. After the second generation,
the girls of the mixed race cannot be distinguished
in colour or beauty from their white sisters of the
pleasant land of" Tasmania.
A N.S. W. paper
states that “ large quan-
tities of prime butter
are now being landed
at Hell.” Probably it
meant Hull. Prime but-
ter wouldn’t keep in Hell.
* * #
In a tobacconist’s
window in George-street,
Sydney, may be seen this
notice: “ The business
done next door is carried
on here.” His rival used
to live “next door.”
mm*
The editor of a Syd-
ney morning paper met,
at lunch in Paris House,
his weekly contributor of
three years’ standing.
They were alone at the
same small table and fell
into conversation. To
tlie contributor’s surprise
he found the editor knew
him by his pen-name
only. “ I avoid knowing
personally anyone put on
the staff by the proprie-
tors.” That tonicked the
surprise.
• # #
At Grafton (N.S.
Wales) Quarter Sessions,
“The Crown prosecutor
asked Judge Merewether
to deal leniently with
George Horne, as it was
his first offence and he
came of a good family
in 2’asmcunia.”
mm#
The correct vogue
for divorced women is
said to be to take their
maiden names, with the
prefix “ Mrs.” Thus the
divorced Madame Bene-
dict becomes “Mrs.
Nee.”
“Jack” Brock, ex-M.P., and present rate-
collector for Benalla Shire (Vic.), was summoned
to Melbourne as a witness in the “ Missing Mace
Enquiry.” While down, he stayed at Mundy’s
hotel, Oakleigh. After his return to the country,
Mundy, a practical joker, wired him
Missing mace discovered in room occupied by you*
Explain your action. What am Ito do?
That telegram followed Brock some 20 miles across
the bush in the hands of a zealous friend, who was
led to understand tluit it was “important.”
Brock, so says the story, as told by a Bullktin
correspondent, only laughed when he received it,
perceiving at once the joke. But, down in Oak-
leigh, the very same day, a Melbourne detective
entered Mundy’s hotel and blusteringly demanded
to “see the mace.” In vain Mundy protested
ignorance; the d. produced a copy of his tele-
gram to Brock ! Thereupon, Mundy obligingly
piloted the officer through every room in the
house, and, finally, after an hour’s weary, droughty
search, landed him in the kitchen. Opening a
box, Mundy said: “ This, I reckon, is the mace
you want” —it was the culinary spice of that
name. So that the boasted secrecy of the tele-
graph department, like that of the post-offi -o, is
non-existent; likewise, the “clever” methods of
the detectives are all summed up in the fact that
they have the run of P.O. secrete.
# # *
A Sydney lady State-school teacher was
lately in a rapid decline. She was an orphan, and
when her doctor at last told her she had but a few
weeks to live she visited Rook wood, bought a
burial-site, selected her coffin at an undertaker’s,
wrote out her obituary-advt., leaving the date
blank, and made all other arrangements for Ik r
funeral. She died a fortnight afterwards.
# # #
At Mackay (Q.), the other day, one
Kynatti was found guilty of “indecent assault.”
Judge Noel, in admitting him to the privileges of
the First Offenders’ Probation Act, said :
I will not have the prisoner whipped, and it is with
special reason that I have come to this conclusion,
because I regret to say that I think he was enticed by the
girl to do what he did.
If enticed, then where is the “ assault ”? Appa-
rently, there was no legal offender, and if any-
body was a moral offender, it was the girl. After
this (a fair example of society’s reasoning in such
affairs) it as idle to talk of the equality of the
sexes. One of the special advantages of being a
woman of a certain kind is that you can get the
back of a man flogged on account of the unclean-
ness of your own soul.
* * •
A big drapery firm, with branches all over
Maoriland, has ukased that, under pain of dis-
missal, nobody in its employ under the rank of
head of a department shall be seen anywhere in
public without a black bell-topper on his degraded
cranium. If there is nothing in the statutes about
conspiracy to force another man to wear a plug-
hat against his will, there assuredly ought to be,
and if there is, that big drapery firm should be
run in for intimidating people into wearing a hat
which is portion of the uniform of organised
hypoorisy.
# * *
The Argus says that Parisian dressmakers
are trying to introduce the crinoline to divert
POMP.
SHE ( proudly ): “My father is a bank manager.”
THE ONE WITH THE JUG ( triumphantly ): “But my father is a gaol
warder, and he has lots of bank managers locked up in
the cells!”
attention from the Panama scandals. It is to be
hoped that the Victorian Government doesn’t
entertain any similar idea. The crinoline that
would be large enough to divert attention from
the Mercantile Bank scandals would make Collins-
street impassable.
# * *
The Chinese in Queensland know how to
work the Pacific Island Labourers’ Act. Some
months ago, a Chow brought two Kanakas before
a labour-inspector, and stated his desire to engage
them. Enquiry elicited that John was a grower
of sugar-cane, etc., and therefore entitled to em-
ploy Kanakas. The agreement was made out—
term, one year; each Kanaka to receive illB
yearly ; wages to be paid half-yearly. At the
expiration of six months, John and one of his boys
interviewed the inspector, and in his presence John
paid the boy £9. Asked where the other boy was,
he said he would bring him up by-and-by. The
inspector suspected no evil, and John went away.
In the afternoon, true to promise, he appeared
with the other hoy ; to him also did he pay £[).
Some weeks afterwards both boys interviewed th
inspector. That wicked, wily Chinee ! John had
had but <£9 ; he therefore took one boy to the
office and paid him his half-year’s wages ; then he
borrowed the £9 from the poor nigger, hunted up
his mate, trotted him in triumph to the office,
paid him his wages, borrowed <£s from him, paid
the first boy £2 10s., and pocketed the balance,
thereby proving himself a capable financier. He
worked the boys for a week or two, and then
bolted.
• * •
When a Queensland Kanaka is fined by a
J.P. the other “ boys ” in Court at once subscribe
the amount. The planters don’t object. Rather
not! For instance, a Kanaka (at <£G a year) was
recently charged with “disobeying orders” and
was fined Two Pounds! The money was deducted
out of his wages, and—the planter was presented
with half the fine!
* * #
O’Tooligan travelled by train for the first
time in his life, the other day, from (say) Buckra-
budgerum to Karrakarakter—a few miles only.
He had often gone the journey by road, and knew
that Karrakarakter township was on the right-
hand side of the line. When the train rolled in
at that station, while the porter busily ran up and
down the platform on the left-hand side, O’Tooli-
gan had his head out of the right-hand window
and was bellowing at the top of his voice. But
the train moved on. So O'Tooligan crawled
through the window and threw himself neatly
out —on the broad of his back. The porter rushed
up to console him, and said, “You should have
jumped zvith the train.” “ Shure, then, Oi did ;
but the thing ran away forninst me, beyant !'*
Then, after a treneral shake-up, and a deep rumi-
nation, the OTooligan observed, with puzzled
slowness—“ Tell me, now; how—the divil—does
faymales— get out uv the train?”
« # •
A Sydney pawnbroker for £3 10s. bought
(as a garnet) a fine red stone mounted in a ring.
He was so pleased with it that he refused to sell it
under .£l7, which sum he got. The buyer took it
to an expert, who valued it at over £2OO. Finally
it was sent to London and realised £320. It was
a ruby.
• * *
Fancy those N.S.W. rev. Fathers taking
confessions! “I confess, father, that I have
been addicted to taking over-much light refresh-
ment ”
# * •
Some months ago a young Sydney man
married a nice girl and took her to a suburban
home. A Chinese market-garden was close by,
and, the other day, the husband, returning home,
found his wife absent. Directed by a neighbour
he sought his three months’ bride in the Chinese
den and found her there almost in a nude state
smoking opium with three Chinamen. She fell on
her knees and begged him to forgive her—which
he did.
# « #
A Sydneyite advertised for a servant
(twice in the Herald and three times in the
Telegraph) stating that his family was one child.
He received but one application. He then adver-
tised once for a “ lady help,” and got 25 answers.
And one advt. for a governess will produce 200
replies—ranging from the charming talented girl
>f 21 to the poor, grey, old amazon who carries a
-I eel walking-stick to pretect herself and pug-dog
igainst men and other animals.
• # •
Why do Australian poets so recklessly
jumble up the flora of the coast country and the
aland country? Cedars, gideas, wattles, pines,
• lie-oaks, mulgas, grass-trees, and bamboos all
lourish in a thick scrub where the bell-bird is con-
tan tly calling the plain-turkey names unfit for
lublication.
* # *
A quarter of a century ago, “ Hoppy ”
Allsorts was a thriving and influential storekeeper
in an Australian goklfields town. The soi-disant
vlrs. “ Hoppy ” had been acquired by “ barter ”
from a neighbouring squatter for a team of bul-
locks, but was considered by her partner to be so
absolutely trustworthy that, when “ Hoppy ” pro-
posed to “make a rise” by going insolvent, he
took the lady confidentially into the spec, and
secretly made over to her the bulk of his liquid
assets. “ Hoppy ” then “ went bung ” and started
off to Sydney to explain matters to his merchant
creditors. Travelling was slow in those days, and
“Hoppy ” was a few weeks away. When he re-
turned, he found his homo deserted, and soon
learned that—his “wife” had married his book-
keeper, Jobson, bought out the leading publican,
and was also running a promising land-agency.
“ Hoppy ” is still in the town, but he never drinks
at Mrs. Jobson’s caravanserai.
* * •
Lepers are now being remitted to the
N.S. W. leper station from among the general
community at the rate of one a month.
• * •
Last Friday was evidently apology-day in
Sydney Evening News. Here are two samples :
T HEREBY apologise for words used towards Mrs.
W. Tumeth, same being without foundation. Mrs.
Brennan.
T ADA M‘NAB, of Blue's Point-road, North Sydney,
, hereby desire to apologise to Mrs. Cochran Weir,
of Blue’s Point-road, North Sydney, and to express
my regret for the circulation by me of certain false,
malicious statements reflecting on the character, re-
putation, and conduct of Mrs. Weir. The statements
referred to were made by me without foundation, and
I admit that the same were un justifiable. Dated, 23rd
day of March, 1893. ADAM'NAB.
Ada’s apology is most comprehensive and
covers pretty nearly everything. Mrs. Bren-
nan, however, gets level with her enemy,
probably without knowing it: “ Mrs. W. Tumuth,
same being without foundation,” isn’t a retracta-
tion, but a hint that Mrs. Tumeth’s feet are
giving way beneath her, or else that she is gone in
the knees.
* # *
Lady Kinfcore finally leaves Adelaide on
April 5, and goes to England via Japan, China and
India. Gov. Kintore follows in Nov., though his
time isn’t up till January. Lady Kintore goes
“ because her husband’s estates require special
attention at present.” This was the Jerseys’
excuse. But, like the Jerseys, though anxious to
get away, Kintore is obviously in no hurry to
reach London.
# • •
Melbourne’s largest-hearted sassiety lady
added another lover to her list last week.
• # •
Wo are told that it is Bishop Doyle, a
somewhat jovial Irishman, and not the ascetic
Card. Moran, who will arbitrate between Fathers
Morrissey and Cassidy in the little Maclean
squabble business.
Hawke’s Bay, the Maoriland squatter
king’s paradise, is slightly Scotch. At last local
Caledonian gathering a brawny native, in full
Highland fig, strutted round the grounds in-
forming his friends that they must now address
him as “MaoWimnu.”
m m m
A storekeeper at Ross, Tas., got his books
into such a beautiful jumble that, thinking him-
self insolvent, he called in the services of a pro-
fessional man. The man of figures reported that
all was correct, and forty shillings in the pound
could be paid ; upon the receipt of which news
the storekeeper immediately hanged himself. The
reason assigned is that it was always his ambition
to be a thorough business’man, and he thought he
had reached his ideal, when the disappointment
received goaded him to suicide.
JOHNSTONE, O’SHANNESSY, PHOTO., MELB,
MISS ADA CRUSSLEY (the Victorian Contralto)
Pastor Be van (£3O a week) lectured in
Sydney the other night, on “ My Trip Round the
World.” Dr. Bevan, on the Chinaman, is instruc-
tive :
I i Honolulu he first saw real industrious Chinamen.
From what ho observed, he was led to the opinion that
the white people of the colonics would yet have to meet
these aliens on a different ground to that on which they
now stood. If the whites could not beat them by indus-
try, they would not by laws. It was useless to try tc
adjust a purely moral question by mere prohibitory laws.
If Pastor Bevan believes in his own statements,
then he ought to get away from the evil times tc
come; the spectacle of Bevan trying to beat the
Chinaman in industry is too awful to be contem-
plated. For there will be Chinese cheap preachers
in those days who will preach 18 hours a day for
■£l a week, and Bevan will have to do the same
for 19s. if he wants to keep ahead. And
then there will be no trips round the world
in the cushioned and carpeted saloons of
a big ocean liner, and instead of faintly and
feebly pounding a velvet-covered desk with a soft,
fat, white, perfumed hand he will have to preach
with hands, and feet, and jaws, and bloodshot
eyes—to preach furiously and bang desperately on
a hard deal board, and yell as long as there is the
shadow of a yell left in him, for If he doesn’t
Chinese competition will assuredly overtake him
and tread him flat, so that his remains could be
passed under a door without disturbing the mat-
ting. He will have to get up at two o’clock on
cold winter mornings and start preaching at three,
and he will have to snatch at his bread and butter
lunch in the pulpit, and hold forth with his mouth
full, and his tie burst, and his legs giving way
beneath him. It is a great picture, that of the
white man beating the Chow by superior industry,
and The Bulletin badly wants to see Pastor
Bevan doing it.
* # *
Dear Bulletin, — Can you tell what the
reason is for some of the “ superior ” clergy trying
to keep in obscurity that Democratic orator, Rev.
C. J. Byng ? He at present is curate-in-charge of
Arncliffe. If you have never heard him preach oi
lecture, you have missed a treat. I have heard
this month no less than three prominent clergy
(C. of E.) state publicly they had no idea of his
power as a dramatic orator. I think his turn
is coming, in spite of all.—Yours, A Woukeb
Sydney, March 25, 1893.
• * •
Bishop Nevill, of Dunedin (M.L.), is oi
opinion that the Brisbane floods were sent along
by Providence “to check the onward growth of
the insane materialism which has grown so much
of late.” When anything disastrous happens,
whether drought, flood, or pestilence, the orthodox
bishop always decides off-hand that it was sent by
Providence to check something that interferes
with the rush of the threepenny into the collection-
plate.
# * #
While flood-lies are fashionable: Some
years ago, old man Peter, of Marriokville (N.S. W.),
died, and his relatives were rejoicing at his
“wake,” unmindful of the floods that besieged
the dwelling. Gradually the waters rose and
made things sloppy. Peter was hoisted on to the
table, and the mourners staggered upstairs to
drink further to his future prospects. When they
“came to,” Peter was floating around on his


EOSE^S
lime juice cordial.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
the best drink fo u al l.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
I>y a I Sion Keepers, ctr.
General Agents:
JULES RENARD Sc CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
IT IS IN THE INCIPIENT STAGE
That most ailments are susceptible of cure,
although Wolfe’s Schnapps affords relief in both
acute and chronic cases.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is an absolute corrective of
the injurious properties of impure water, and is an
immediate cure for dyspepsia, gout, &c.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon —which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within five weeks from Saturday, 25th Feb.,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition, particulars
of which will duly appear.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 2.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, Ist April,
1893.
The assumption of Premier G. Republican
Dibbs that the name of the new Governor of
N.S. Wales would be submitted to him in
advance for approval has proved erroneous.
The haughty stand taken by the Colonial
Office in this matter, even after the sharp
lesson given it by MTlwraith*in the Blake
affair, is a logical consequence of the ex-
Republican’s in accepting a
title while intoxicated with the glamour of
the Court.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person ivho fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received—no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
N a deal' night,
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold-
W.H. PALING & CO.
(LIMITED),
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAY & SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Maker-'.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’s RAND INSTRUMENTS,
338 George Street, Sydney.
back, knocking against flotsam. They fished him
out and carried liim upstairs, and waded out to
hurry up the undertaker. The waters still rose,
and the house could only be approached by boat.
Son and grandson volunteered to fetch Peter
off in the night. Nobly they rowed in the
darkness, heroically they knocked a hole in
the roof, gallantly they passed a tow-rope
round the coffin, and pluckily they started on
their return journey. Suddenly, a flash of light-
ning illumined the murk for the space of seven
seconds; the coffin-lid was split, as with an
electric axe, from end to end ; the corpse, gal-
vanised into restored life, sat up; and, by the
dim light of the boat’s lantern, it was seen to gaze
around. The resurrected cadaver then shouted :
“Hulloa! What (brimstone)game’s this? What
sort of a (smoky) night do you call this to take a
man out for a (coagulated) row?” The tow-rope
snapped, scorched to flax by the blasphemy, Old
Peter unwound his cerements, hoisted his shroud
as a sail, and was picked up next day at Cook’s
River.—R. Thurr.
# # n
The latest version, as sung by the young-
sters in the vicinity of the recent Sydney baby-
farms :
Mr. Joyce and Mr. Brown
Went down to M'Donaldtown ;
Fourteen babies they have found
Buried underneath the ground.
Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay ! &c.
# * #
' In a northern N.S.W. town, it transpired
the other day, the local R.O. priest’s poulterer’s
bill for one month was £l4 odd. We no longer
wonder at the rarity of a slim priest.
* * #
Moral: No man should send his daughter
to service at a clergyman’s house. The sons are
such rips and their fathers such fools.'
• # •
Larrikinism prevailed, as usual, at Mel-
bourne University Commencement. The Chan-
cellor was told to get his hair cut, and so on, but
yet the papers accepted it as quite gentlemanly.
Suppose all this had been done at a common
school!
« « •
A true Australian educational story ;
names fictitious. Inspector Beardley, of the
Wangdool district, examines first class of Bullfrog
Gully school-
Who made the world?— Gord.
Yes. In how many days?—Five.
Wrong. Next?—Six.
What did God make on the second day?—Plaze, sorr,
the furr-ma-mint.
And on the fifth?—The fltheth of the thea and the
fowlth of the air.
What was God’s last work?—He made Adam outer red
clay.
Who was Adam’s wife ? Missis Adams.
Wrong. You at the end, there?—Eve.
How did Adam and Eve offend God?—Eatin’ green
apples.
What did God do to them ?■—Druv ’em outer the garden.
How did He keep them from entering again ?—A long
pause. At last—Plaze, sorr, He wint an’ nailed the
palin’s.
Excerpt from Inspector Beardley’s report on the
Bullfrog Gully school :
First Class.— Scripture : Moderate plus—The children
take many liberties with the text. Confine your lessons
to the approved authorities on this subject, viz., Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John.
* # *
The Melbourne girl, who divested herself
of skirt and boots in the railway carriage and gave
herself up for drugged, was at least merciful. She
might easily have clawed hold of a male stranger,
and got for him, say, fifteen years’ penal servitude
and three lashings, “ for the sake of her good
name.”
* * #
What it is coming to. Presiding Judge to
comely female petitioner: “Have you seen your
hubby lately ?” Petitioner : “ No, your Honor !”
Presiding Judge : “ Decree nisi I”
* # »
In the gallery of a Melbourne theatre.
She: “ Don’t he cuddle her up lovely, Bill ?”
Bill (with fearful contempt): “Bah! what
rot!” She (with genuine pathos): “It’s a lob
a-good of you goin’ to a theatre —you never learn
nothin’.”
# * •
One piece of evidence that largely induced
the Melbourne jury to send Manton to take his
trial for drowning his (heavily-insured) wife was
the testimony of several persons that they heard a
female voice crying out: “Don’t! Stop it!” A
pointer for accused’s lawyer: You can hear
female voices crying out those words any night in
any park.
# * »
Jules Ferry’s funeral was marked, as usual,
by orations at the grave. This admirable French
custom might well, in this country, supplement
the clergyman’s “frigid mummery of words.”'
Martin, over Wentworth, is a life memory. And
what charming monsieurs de la cimitihre would be
made by Dan O'Connor and other unemployed
Australian politicians ! The making of grave-
orations would offer a new sphere of employment
to industrious and eloquent Australian youth.
* * *
Good Friday, it will be admitted, is now
kept up in a most anomalous style.
* # #
u “Skirt - dancing,” writes Materfamilias,
shall be the devotion of my dear girls, after the
glorious show, by the Duvallis, at the Melbourne
town Hall, the other night. How could I be so
blind ? What care the eligibles for matriculation?
—they want leg.”
* » #
An old love-story came to an unsatis-
aotory conclusion, the other day, at Invercargill
(M.L.) Somewhere about a year ago, a vyild Irish
girl from County Clare turned up in Maoriland
and claimed a horse-dealer named Brown as her
husband. She had been married to him, she
asserted, among her native bogs and fells, in 1878,
and three weeks later he left her and sailed for
Dunedin, and she never heard of him any more.
At the end of thirteen long years she got tired
of waiting and started in pursuit, and after
searching Maoriland for many months she saw
the familiar name attached to an advertisement
about a horse for sale, and identified the owner as
her vanished property. Brown’s defence was
simply that ho had never seen or heard of the
woman in his life, and that he wasn’t married to
.anybody, whereupon the case fell through, and
nothing more was heard of it for ten months.
But, the other day, the Irish lady sued Brown for
maintenance a second time, and brought forward
a witness who swore to the alleged husband’s
identity, and the horse-dealer is now doing three
months in gaol, and is under orders to pay ss. a
week to a person whom, he alleges, he never saw
before.
# * *
“ Solidified air ” is the latest plaything of
science.
* * *
A Melbourne paper recalls an old-time
story which, as a sample of the confidence-trick,
has never been equalled. A good old man of
benevolent aspect, who purported to be a
retired bank manager, advertised in the
papers stating that in his younger days he
; had embezzled the bank’s funds and for
long .had tottered horribly on the verge of ex-
posure and gaol, until a blessed dispensation of
Providence enabled him to refund the money and
preserve his character unblemished. The memory
iof that dreadful episode had never left him, and
mow that he was old, rich, and childless, he
I wanted to hear from young bank-clerks in a
(similar situation in order that he might rescue
(themifrom the consequences ahead. Four terrified
land Ijigh-collared youths, whose shortages Weighed
.upon their minds, appealed to the good old man
ifor assistance,, and gave him full particulars.
.Whereupon he lived on them for about twelve
months and made them sell their jewellery and
give him the proceeds, and forced them to em-
bezzle more money, and sign promissory-notes for
his benefit, under threat of instant exposure.
Nobody knows exactly where that good old man
is now, but. it is presumed that he is living on
bank-clerks somewhere or other to this day.
The champion
swindler would
appear to hail
from Tasmania.
Recently he intro-
duced a “spieler”
to his brother as a
likely Juggins”
at cards. A little
seanCe was ar-
ranged, and the
professional, in
due season, by the
deft handling of
his “readers,”
landed something
like £2O. During
a slight interval
for refreshment,
the fact leaked out
that the victim
was the brother of
the introducer.
This was too much
for the morality of
even a gambling-
hawk, and, hand-
ing back a £lO-
- he said : “ I
was sent to take
you down by your
brother, who is
going me halves.
I did not know he
was related to you,
so here’s your ten-
ner back. The
other belongs to
him.” Needless
to s tate, the second
moiety never
found its way
back to its original
possessor.
# #
At Richmond
(Yic.) Revision
Court, the other
day, an ex-gaol-
warder applied to
have his listed
“ occupation ” va-
ried from “warder” to “gentleman.” A super-
annuated “screw” —a knackered turnkey—a
gentleman ! That’s what all ex-Lagdom calls
itself.
# * •
A rather remarkable young man has
lately been operating in Australia. In the days
of his glory he was a dull-looking person
with a massive English accent, and he travelled
mainly on his stupidity ; everybody decided that
a man of so owl-like an aspect was utterly incap-
able of being a rogue. He never “ had ” anybody
for a large amount; his ambition apparently went
no further than good board and lodging, clothing,
a little pocket-money, and an atmosphere of pro-
found calm. His strong point was that he was
coming into a million-and-a-quarter “at Home,”
and that £20,000 was about to arrive per cable.
When he told this story he always invited his
friends to come straight up with him to the
lawyer’s office or the Registrar-General’s office, or
somewhere, to inspect verificatory documents, but
he somehow invariably made the suggestion when
it was raining ducks and drakes, or on a hot day
when even a salamander wouldn’t take such a
walk if he could help it. Besides, nobody cared
to look as if he suspected the stranger; and, lastly,
the invitation itself seemed (to everybody but the
Hebrew bill-discounters) a sufficient guarantee
that all was right. Therefore, everybody took
him in and tried to give him his daughter or his
niece in marriage, and under the roof-tree of one
N.S. Wales M.P.’s father-in-law, where there are
several marriageable daughters and rich, he was
actually pressed to take music-lessons in company
with a young lady. He never took the daughter,
however, even when she was good - looking
and rich ; he never got at his host for
more than a few pounds to goon with, and ho
didn’t steal anything ; he only ate, and ruminated,
and breathed, and waited for his remittance. He
was always being strategically captured and
driven off in triumph by a new man who had
“been a bosom friend of your uncle, my dear
boy, down in Melbourne, years before you were,
born.” He had a choice of 40 girls at different
periods of his career, and didn’t elope with any of
them. He engaged a private secretary, a keen
man of the world, at £(>00 a year, from whom he
only borrowed a few pounds; in return, however*
it must be admitted, he promised that, later on, he
would buy the secretary a few thousand pounds’
worth of shares in a valuable patent and set him up
for life. The climax came, however, when some
smart Sydney men proposed to accompany him to
Melbourne to take delivery of a lot of cash in
exchange for certain investments they were offer-
ing him. He made no objection, but allowed
them to pay his travelling and hotel expenses, and
for days had them at the end of a long string in
Coll ins-street. But now he is at last out of
society and is living in his own dull, uninterested
fashion in hash houses. When last heard of he
was staying with a Melbourne widow at 17s. fid,
per week, and slept most of the day, except when
he sat in the dark, greasy little dining-room with
his head against the wall and breathed heavily;
and his fellow-lodgers had profound faith in him
because of his ox-like expression and the noise he
made when taking his soup, and the poor old
woman expected Ids £20,000 to arrive at any
moment. Perhaps the saddest feature about the
“ colonial ” career of this young man is the fact
that a Sydney mining magnate who, months ago,
had him staying in his castle as an honoured guest,
has now, in his disgust, written out a big bill for
board-and-lodging, and refuses to give up the dis-
tinguished visitor’s clothes-trunks.
o * #
The commercial traveller, indicating a
crowd of school-children on the ferry-punt : “ A
■ few of yours, I suppose, Mr. Bullocky ? ” Bullock-
driver, expertly flicking the tail off a little lizard
on a log : “No, not quite. I ain’t a jumped-up
blooming ink-u-bator.”
# # #
About the most pitiable sight on earth is
an M.L.A. for a country district playing euchre
in a railway carriage as he travels through his con-
stituency. Every time the train stops at a station
the wretched man turns deathly pale and tries to
assume an air of having picked up his “hand ”
by accident. His face is turned away from the
, platform until his other eye has to rivet itself
upon the back of the seat, and cold sweat pours
from his forehead down upon the right bower.
He is mortally afraid of being spotted by a sup-
porter who advocates the Bible in State schools.
Should a serious-looking head appear at the
1Y y
H ci 7'
/Je
nJsz
<r
/
THE HAGGARD READER.
MISS TOMKYNS DE BALMAIN: “I want Madam Blavatsky’s ‘Secret
Doctrine,’ Rider Haggard’s ‘Nada, the Lily,’ and Sir Henry
Parkes’ book.”
BOOKSELLER: “Yes, ma’am—anything else?”
MISS T. DE B.: “I don’t know. Could you recommend me anything to
follow?”
BOOKSELLER: “Yes, ma’am, Gladesville Asylum.”
window the terrified member usually sits upon his
own cards and implores the other fellows to go on
playing without him, and if anybody cries out
“Your deal!” the worm writhes horribly.
Between stations, however, he is the distinguished
senator once again. He expands. His voice
assumes a tone of brief authority, and he snorts
vigorously at the infernal newspapers. At these
times he is trying to gammon himself into the
belief that his soul is his own.
Cardinal Moran leaves for Rome April 8.
That is a nasty allegation—that the N. S. W,
Typographical Society, which has .£l5OO in hand,
allows deadbeat unionists to starve and sleep out.
At a banquet given in Limerick to the
released alleged dynamitard, Daly, the room was
decorated with flags and mottoes. One of the
latter was “ A felon’s cap is the noblest crown an
Irish head can wear.” Pretty tall, even for
Limerick.
Ex-Judge Peter Faucett, of N.S. Wales
Supreme Court, nowon his way back to Australia,
where he hopes to end his days, has managed to
steer a non-committal course in the political water's
of “home.” He comes back as he went —a man
believed to possess a warm heart with clearly-
defined political convictions, but without any
public action to his credit to justify the belief.
His is an instance of a public reputatioh attained
by the exercise of private virtues. When a young
man in Dublin he was looked upon as a potential
leader ; his opinions were quite in line with those
who worked heart and soul for Nationalism ; but
the difference between Faucett and his associates
was that he confined himself to an academic ex-
pression of his opinions, while they put theirs into
action, and went accordingly—-many of them, at
least—to pieces. As a young man, so now as an
old man, Faucett, during his visit, has displayed
an intelligent interest in Irish affairs, but an
interest of the strictly non-committal kind. At
important crises such men generally provoke con-
temptuous comment, but Fawcett's personal quali-
ties have shielded him from that, and his Irish
associates, like his Sydney ones, esteem him
despite his peculiarity of temperament.
“ The Anarchists, like the Jacobins, do not
care whether they have a majority.”
James Martin, inventor of an Australian
reaper and binder, has been syndicated over to
Chicago by Melbournians, who hold it is a big
thing.
The Liberator Building Society (Eng.)
swindle has produced a witness who admits to
theft and forgery, and to having “promoted ” his
sister’s marriage with his employer, in considera-
tion of the latter scoundrel’s kindness in covering
up the frauds. After that he lectured in aid of
religious missions. The time is surely coming
when every business man who climbs upon a
platform to advance the good cause will be treated
as a presumptive criminal, and fired into gaol on
the off-chance,
N.Q. shipping syndicates are boycotting
unionists, and have lowered the wages of wharf-
labourers and lightermen. At Normanton, lighter-
men’s wages have been lowered as much as £3 a
month. On Thursday Island, Malays rule the
roost, ever since the exodus thither of the Malay
camp expelled from Normanton a few years ago,
in consequence of the brutal murder of two white
men by a Malay at the latter place.


ITor Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sore
Throat, Influenza, and Incipient Con*
sumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
It has long been the most popular and suc-
cessful anodyne expectorant In Pharmacy,
and is everywhere recommended by the
Faculty. It soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up Irritating mucus, allays coughing,
and induces repose. As a family emergency
medicine, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is thd
Standard
In Both Hemispheres
For the relief and cure of croup, whooping-
cough, sore throat, and all the pulmonary
troubles to which the young are so liable, It
Is invaluable. No household is quite secure
without Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral,
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,
IT. S. A. Sold by Druggists and MedicineVendora
Prompt to act,sure to cure
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
A pure and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-parasitic and slightly alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth where decay originates, retnoyes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2s. 9 d. per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes red dr grey hair a permanent Brown or
Black, 4s. Ask” any dealer in perfumery for
Rowlands’articles.of 20,Hatton Garden,London.
MACKs
D O U BLE-
¥
Requires No Addition or Preparation as It
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax. *c.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time. Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
d
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ahp SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
fd
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the XJ. S. Medical Profes-
'‘on. The smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a phial.
JI Perfect Food.
HO RUCK’S
MALTED
MILK
f
4*4
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick!)
and readily prepared for instant ust
by dissolving in water.
TUTALTED MILK is the best food for In
111 fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
TUTALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-I*l valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18,1891.
Malted Milk will keep Indefinitely In any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents ; —
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HIU, LONDON, E C.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
m
A3T The only thoroughlj
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS.
BKOSIdIITIS
A HD
INFLUENZA.
It can no*v be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sols Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist.
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Oity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale. of Elliott Brothers, Limited
CHEAP MUSIC! CHEAP MUSIC!
PAXTON A CO., 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
Australian Branch: 261 Swanston Street, Mblbodrrb.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To be had
of Musio-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or. if not obtainable locally. 3d. each post
free from PAXTON Sc CO., 251 Swanston'-St.. Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, eto., sent
on receipt of business-card.
d
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SYDNEY.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
£>3£SS9
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the CELEBRATED children’s sweet)
L a
i ii Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE. /
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
\ FREE.
%
J Sample \
opy sent \
itis & Post \
to any ad- \
State whether \
uld like Song, \
o, or Dance Music. \
This is done simply to Intro-
duce the new list of
fd
SRQQME’SMUSIC
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 18, Holborn, London, Eng,
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 28, 1893.
f ■ TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
».ra. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal-
lerawang, at Cooerwull.
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Port Macquarie to
Armidale
Bridge, Namoi River, at Walgett
Construction of Tramway along Regent-street,
Sydney
Completion of Wilson’s Creek Bridge, road Lis-
more to Brunswick. Fresh tenders
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Port Mac-
quarie
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge, Back Creek, at Marsden-road, Marsden
to Lake Cowal
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Plant for
Tabulam, Clarence River
Bridge over No. 2 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge
Bridge over No. 3 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge
Bridge over No. 4 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge
Supply, during a period of Five years, of Stop-
valves, Hydrants, Surface-boxes, and other
fittings, to be made in the Colony, for Country
Towns Water Supplies.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3.
Construction of Timber Punt for Darling River,
at Bourke
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River at Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Collarendebri
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River at Bombay Crossing
road
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
RASTER HOLIDAYS.
HOLIDAY EXCURSION TICKETS will be issued from
all stations to all stations (except locally between stations
on the suburban stations), commencing with the Mail
Trains leaving Terminal Station on MONDAY, 27th
March, and thereafter by all trains until MONDAY, 3rd
April, both days inclusive, available for return until MON-
DAY, 17th April, 1893.
The tickets issued locally between stations on the
suburban sections on MONDAY, 3rd April, will be avail-
able for return up to the following day.
Special Cheap Excursion Tickets at 2d. per mile First-
class minimum, 55.; and Id. per mile .Second-class mini-
mum, 2s. (id., will be issued at Sydney and Suburban
Stations by the undermentioned trains:—
FROM SYDNEY;
To Kiama : 7.7 p.m., 30th March ; 8.30 a.m., 31st Marc h;
and 7.32 a.m., 3rd April.
To Goulburn: 6.10 p.m., 30th March; and 7.55 a.m.,
31st March and 3rd April.
ToKatoomba: 5.10 p.m., 30th March. Eskbank; Ba.m.,
31st March and 3rd April.
To Newcastle: 8.26 a.m., 31st March; 8.15 a.m., 3rd
April.
TO SYDNEY:
From Kiama: 5.80 a.m., 31st March and 3rd April.
From Goulburn: 5.10 a.m., 3rd April. From Orange: 8.45
p.m., 2nd April. From West Maitland: 6 a.m., 3rd April.
Hand Bills and further particulars can be had from all
station masters, and at the Inquiry Office, Redfern ; and
the Central Booking Office, George Street, Sydney.
By order of the Commissioners.
H. M'LAOHLAN,
_ , .. Secretary.
Sydney, March, 1898.
<£49,460 worth for £l,
See Amusement
1 Column
]NTo Cure, IST o
ay.
'//
V [i lUsflUl
i\S
"T
rpHIS
is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY,
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
' ,*W»v N \W.\
m
A NNA RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC will positively re-
move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter how
long standing), acne (so prevalent in moist climates),
salt rheum, oilyness, excessive redness, etc., soon dis-
appear after its us?. This SKIN TONIC is a healing
remedy. Every bottle is guaranteed to be as represented.
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan,
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientific
and healthy; it opens the pores of the skin, so that all
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving the net-
work of the skin clean, fresh and youthful; hardens
flabby skin—in fact, gives a new appearance. ANNA
RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively than
all other skin preparations combined. SKIN TONIC is
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Every
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands of
letters are coming in, and are loud in their praises of this
SKIN TONIC; old cases of acne, eczema, coarseness of
skin, etc., are being specially cured when other remedies
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. 6d.,
three bottles together (usually required), £1 12s. 6d. All
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamped
envelope. Consultation at office free, valuable new
" Book of Beauty,” post free on receipt of 4d. stamps.
Call or address the celebrated American Complexion
Specialist,
ANNA RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia
153 Strand, Sydney,
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, etc.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most fayour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
USE
V
a
if.
.*n
Lv .>
- . *
•rf
*7 s*a
£
m
if
i
m
€
m
h
M
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S I ”
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah 1 Dem that make me love.”
“Detectives are professional liars, and
when they have no evidence they manufacture it.’*
—Judge Beamwell (England).
Holyrood Palace, Edinburgh, is to be
“ restored,” and that pallid blot which has passed
so long for the blood of Rizziois to go at last.
There are bitter complaints about the loss of an
old “historical association.” Even the blood-
stains of a crooked fiddler who was smiled on by a
queen are valued in Britain.
The Langham Hotel, Wynyard Square, is
now owned by Mr. Chas. Prince, and under the
management of this capable boniface “The
Langham ” will sustain its reputation of being
one of the leading city hotels.
Dear Bulletin, Your correspondent,
“ Shadow,” seems to believe, or to suspect, that
drink “ cures ” consist in plying the patient with
liquor until he becomes nauseated for all time.
He tells of how, at eight years of age, he swal-
lowed a canful of beer, and has never been able to
look another pint of sheoak in the face. May I
quote my own case ? At eight years of age 1 was
made drunk (by my wicked brethren) upon a
cordial called milk-punch, and from that time for-
ward I have loathed the smell of this particular
“ poison.” Had my brother filled me with every
other alcoholic drink in turns, no doubt I
should have loathed them all and became
a temperance lecturer. But the difference
between a child’s “drunk” and a man’s
ditto is considerable. Nobody can produce any
instance of a hardened toper being nauseated with
whisky. The bare fact of a man being a drunkard
proves that you can’t give him too much liquor
for his palate—or his stomach. The average man
seems to be kept fairly sober by his tendency to
nausea after drinking a certain quantity. His
stomach is his best friend in this matter. A
toper’s stomach gives him but little assistance, for
although he may occasionally become nauseated,
he doesn’t experience the same sort of sickness
against his grog which was produced by beer upon
the infant, “Shadow,” or by milk punch upon—
Yours, Melbourne.
BURYING THE ’ATCHET.
Great ’Enry Parkes he wagged his head
And gazed at Dibbs in sorrow—
“My haged ’eart goes hout,” he said,
“ To hall who want to borrow ;
Although a downy bird, h’alasl
My nest I cannot feather,
So, come along and ’ave a glass,
We’ll drown our Cares together.
“ Hinsolvency is not a crime—
A mere misfortune, truly ;
Hi’ve ’ad some worry in my time
From dogs who dunned unduly J
And when of you Hi came to ’ear
(These things there’s no concealing^
Hi says to Ragged Jane: ‘ My dear,
Hi know ’ow Dibbs is feeling.’
** Hus statesmen scorn the vulgar mob
By whom our lives are ’arrassed—
The fools who pay their twenty * bob*
And never get hembarrassed ;
Hus statesmen ’old a place apart)|
With hus the hearth is salted.
And hif they put hus in the cart
We’re only more hexalted.”
Great Parkes he ruffled up his crest,
That ’ead of ’air so noble,
He drew G. R. against his chest
And soothed him in his trouble.
“ Forget hour quarrels hot the past
Such recollections smother.”
“ Excuse these tears,” cried Dibbs, at Idsb,
“ I love you like a brother.”
QDDS AND ENDS.
Writers too frequently catoh on to the odds and
ends of history to sustain some pet theory or to
uphold some mistaken notion. In 1817 John
Oxley, Surveyor-General of N.S.W., explored the
country towards the interior with the object of
finding the source of the River Lachlan. He
followed the course of the river for many miles,
but was compelled to diverge by swamps of the
most dismal character. Heading these he was
again confronted and baffled by other swamps;
ultimately abandoning his project in the belief
that these swamps merged into an inland sea.
This was subsequently disproved, but this scrap
has been the basis of much speculation about the
swamps of Australia, upon which was founded a
charge that the sectibn referred to was unhealthy.
It is true Oxley encountered from exposure many
{>ainful complaints, such as rheumatism, sciatica,
umbago, neuralgia, and the like; nor were his
men provided with an absolute cure for these
diseases, such as an expedition of the kind would
be provided with nowadays; but there are no
grounds for the charge. The truth is that, even if
it were so, the great preventive and cure of aches
and pains would make all things right. The
truth is, further, that St. Jacobs Oil cures all odds
and ends of pain, as witness the following : Mr.
S. H. Collins, Squatters Hotel, Brisbane, Queens-
land, was cured of a terrible pain in bis ribs by
the use of St. Jacobs Oil, Mr. Thomas Craw-
ford, Standard Brewery, Sydney, N.S.W., suff-
ered 16 years with a broken ankle. He now
walks as well as ever from use of St. Jacobs Oil.
Mr. Stephen Thomas, Sydney, N.S.W., says one
of his children was cured of great pain from the
bite of a tarantula by the use of St. Jacobs Oil,
when he thought the child would have to undergo
a surgical operation. Mr. Jas. M. Mort, Foot-
ball Club, Melbourne, writes ; “ Was troubled
with cramps in my legs ; but, rubbing well with
St. Jacobs Oil, have never had them since.” Mr.
J. D. Flower, Balmain, Sydney, says: “ Should
like all fellow-sufferers from rheumatic gout to
try St. Jacob Oil. It cured me.” Such are its
unrivalled virtues, that everything in the shape of
pain succumbs to it.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
SOCIETY
A. XT S “X" T 1 -A. Xj 1 -A.S3XT IVX XT - X' XT A. X_« q j tvt t*
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which X -M- «- v •*— l 9 ■*"
|*r" DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
h.RTOTORS-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A., Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; Deputy-Chairman; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.;
Dirrcio MEEKS; Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEEGE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Accumulated Fuads; Ten and a-Hall Millions sterling The CASH BONUS lot the On. JT.nt 1891 amounted to £189,823, yielding Eeveteionaty Bonus., ot over ONE MILLION STEBUWt
Bomd OHice: 07 PITT STREET. HTUMBY. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; J. R. HILL, Esq.; A. W,
TATTERSALLS
F I 3XT JBl. L HA.KT D X O -A_ lE* April 8,
5.000 a* t® 5,000
n. oS S T=f. T T■ T. CXT X* April 39, 1893.
10.000 at 10 10,000
1893.
(ONLY ADDRESS:
. TATTKRSAIjL ”
-{ C/o Geo. Adams (Owner), Tatter-
I sail’s Hotel &01dClub Premises,
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
Th E equitable
IIPE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U. 5.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS!
-Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. I (>7,(is<>, ;;<>(>
New Business, TSOI .. .. .. IS .".(>(>. 111!)
Surplus, January 1, 1892 r».4r)«.S*l
Apply for “TO NTI N E TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens if Actual Results.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society’s perma-
nent building)
'Junction of Hunter, Pitt Sc O'Connell Streets.
George and Walter Giffen declined to attend
the picnic to the Victorian Eleven on the Sunday before,
the Australian team left for England, because, as the
champion put it, “We promised the old woman to spend,
the last Sunday with her.” They stopped quietly at home
with their mother.
Sprig o’ Myrtle and Ducrow is a tempting Don-
caster and Sydney Oup double.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUII} MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
, Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
Preserves Furs from
the Moth.
Cleanses
Domestic Pets
of Parasites.
5. EACH.
GALAS
3. EACH.
MoHS TfR
ISThH!"
p
s*r
fd
f
S. (d.) .. .. 600
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
Other prizes see circulars.
345 EXTRA 345
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes.
Address to “ GALA,” c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Strkbt, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
i
Tiie poor Barmaid having
a little hit of supper after
. her hard day’s work !
| Now ready, pout free Is 6d,
TIIE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
la Sydney Barmaid
S To bo had only of
MHm. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
MiLWARD’S
SOLD
TW AQ
DRAPERS
SBfU>
SHARPS
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
c£49,460 worthfor «£l.
See Amusement
Column.
Amusements.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, 31st MARCH.
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
JUBILEE SINGERS
Great Special programme to
inaugurate the Opening of a
Short Farewell Season by all
the Old Favourites and Two
New Artists.
First Performance of the Grand
Passiontime Chorus “ They Cruci-
fied My Saviour.”
Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Paling’s.
T 3 OYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY OF
JCl# NEW SOUTH WALES.
GREAT METROPOLITAN EXHIBITION
of 1893,
Moore Park, Sydney.
From MARCH 29th to APRIL 4th.
The Grandest Show ever Accomplished by
the Society.
F. WEBSTER, Secretary.
Theatre royal.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. U. RAINFORD.
THE EASTER ATTRACTION
at this Theatre will be the Popular Australian Spectacular
Drama founded upon ROLF BOLDREWOOD’S extra-
ordinary and attractive work descriptive of Life and
Adventure in the Wild Bush and Goldfields, written by
Alfred Dampier and Garnet Walch, and entitled
“ROBBERY under ARMS.”
ALFRED DAMPIER, Miss LILY DAMPIER, Miss ROSE
DAMPIER, Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL, andacomplete
Company of capable Comediennes and Comedians.
SATURDAY, April 1—“ ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.”
Box Plan at Theatre. Bus. Manager, Fred. Gunther.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.;
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE: Hon. B. B. Moreton, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq.,
Acheson Overend, Esq., C.E.
SOLICITOR: Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide - streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000;
rental value, £1,500.
Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
OOO'iy J° 9
009‘sr j° f
000‘sr J° T
ooo ‘oxr P z
dfd
100 of <£2s
125 of .£2O
1.000 of ,£lO
1.000 of £5
Total, =£105,000, no deduction of any kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49*4GO worth*
' Sporting.
j A TVC BEDE,
I The Original Promoter.
Over SO Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN:
SYDNEY GOLD CEP.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
}
OT
000*01
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
‘‘ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
8®“ Programmes Sent on Application.
UIONSTEft
CASH PRIZE ■CONSULTATIONS
Care “MANDEES," ALBUEY, JS-ff.
NOW OPEN ON
Sydney Gold Cup. 3rd April. 10,000 at 6.
Alimry Cup. March 16. 1000 at 5 each.
Birllidny Cup, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 6 each
Birthday Cup, Sydney. May 24. 5000 at 5.
Grimd National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 6.
Grand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully:
"Robin Hood,” c/o. Handers’ Telegram Agency,
DKAN STREET, ALBURY, N.S.W.
Amusements.
(SCHOOL OF ARTS,
COMMENCING
SATURDAY, Ist APRIL, 1893.
Admission—3s., 25., Is. and 6d.
Doors open 7 p.m., commencing 8 o’clock prompt.
Carriages 10 p.m.
Professor ALBERT RICHARD, M.E.
(Paris and Melbourne),
The FAMED
MEDICAL
ELECTRI-
CIAN is de-
monstrating
upon his
own merits
his skill and
unique ori-
ginal system
of Medical
Electric
Treatment
in the above
hall ; treat-
ing the halt,
f
lame, par-
alysed, deaf,
etc., free of
chargeevery
evening, in
full view of
the audi-
ence; and
concluding
this demon-
strationwilh
a refined
laughter-
provoking
and Electric
En tertain-
ment.
EVENING PROGRAMME!
First Part—Sensational Lecture* “ Battle of Life.”
FIVE MINUTES INTERVAL.
Part ‘2.—Searching the Professor in and olit The
Ladies’ Electric Roses and Oranges. The Gentlemen’s
Electric Experiment. The Electric Sword Duel. The
Electric Water Cup. The Electric Pony Ride. The Boy’s
War-whoop Dance. The Sparkling Electric Tray, Sword,
and Revolver. The E'ectric Explosion. The Electric Gas
Finger Lightning. The Wonderful Charge of Electricity
through the Professor’s Body.
Special Notice The Halt, Lame, Deaf, &c., desirous
of being treated free of charge during the Electric Enter-
tainment and Public Healing Demonstrations, must come
provided with a letter of recommendation from a Magis-
trate, to vouch that the case is genuine, and to receive a
free admission ticket.
All bad cases, such as those on crutches and in Bath
Chairs, &c., must be seated in the Hall by 6 p.m., to avoid
the crush.
Ticket Box open 2 to 4, and re-open 7 p.m. NO FREE
List (Press Excepted).
(Melbourne Evening Standard, 31st December, 1892).
Professor Albert Richard, M.E., of Paris, who has been
effecting startling cures by means of his electric treat-
ment, gave a farewell electric entertainment at the Town
Hall, on the evening of 13th January. The entertainment
was under the patronage of His Excellency the Governor,
the Countess of Hopetoun, His Worship the Mayor, and
leading Members of the Legislature.
SPECIALIST FOR BOTH SEXES.
Paralysis, Rheumatism, Spinal Affections, Locomotora-
taxy, Sciatica, Gout, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Loss of Speech,
Eyesight, Deafness, Liver Torpidity, Dyspepsia,
Cramp, Varicose Veins, Debility, Neuralgia, Constipa-
tion, Writer’s Cramp, Exhaustion, Sleeplessness, Im-
paired Vitality, &c.
Professor ALBERT RICHARD, M.E., may be CON-
SULTED FREE OF CHARGE daily from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m,
until further notice at his private consulting and treating
rooms, 193 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault. •
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS !
of
Harry and Edward Padlton’s Modern Comedy,
“ iKTEOZBIES.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
Tivoli theatre
(Late the GARRICK) Castlereagh Street.
Sole Lessee and Manager Mr. Harrv Rickards.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
| Mr. 11 Alt K Y ItHKAKBS
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
49 REAL GENUINE ARTISTS 49
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s.}
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee . Mr. George Rignold.
STARTLING and TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
of the
Great English Sensational Play,
L im: .a. to im: a. istj*
PRICES as USUAL, BOX PLAN at THEATRE
d
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. Cd., 155., 215., 235.
lid., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. Cd., 18s. 6d.. steel reeds, 215., and 235. Cd.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. Cd., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 855., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £0 55., and' £7 10s.
TERMS t—Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge of honour de*
mandcd. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted'
FREE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
“ Carmen Tip to Data.”
SATURDAY, April s—“ MISS ESMERALDA.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
DEAF
NESS & HEAD NOISES CORED
by Peck's Invisible Tubular Ksr Cushion*.
Whispers heard. Successful when all
remedies fall. Write for book of proofs
HAST, 49 Elizabeth
Street,
Melbourne*
[FREE,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Mr. “ Billy ” Freeman, a typical Hawkesbury
native and an old-time bookmaker and horse-owner, died
last week. The best horse he owned was probably
Laertes ; but he will be best remembered as the taker-
down of the arch blusterer, Joe Thompson, in a turn-up
outside Sydney Tattersall’s.
* fc *
In a cricket-match, Walgett (N.S.W.) y. Oome-
by-Chance, won by the latter, nine of the victorious team
hear the name of Evans-all relatives of the famous Ted
It waS on his father’s station near Walgett that Ted
learned to bow I—with a single stump, half-a-dozen cricket-
balls, and a black-boy to return the balls at the end Of
each’over. # * *
They have an old, deerepid, married men’s social
club, yclept the Soarboro’, on the Illawarra line, and last
Saturday they played a cricket-match against an eleven
of Rockdale Cricket Club. The latter-fine, strapping
voun"- fellows—thought the matter a huge joke. The old
buffers won the toss, and sent the youngsters to the
wickets. The stumps of the batsmen w'ent down like
drunks before a hungry stipendiary, through the trun-
dling of solicitor “ Charlie Bull and ex-Minister, for
Public Instruction “Joe” Carruthers. The innings
closed for 40, and then the old people went to the wickets
and nearly belted the Cover off the balk
•■• # *
Glove-fighting is doomed in Australia. Pugs.,
however, still have football—that grand game for paying
off all scores.
* * *
Ernest Winter, Brisbane solicitor, who will
stroke the Q. eight-oar crew in this year’s interprovincial
contest, is a fine all-round sportsman. His courage,
generosity, and general prowess have made him the
central figure in Queensland athletics for many years.
He is a dead rifle and wing shot, a splendid horseman,
perhaps the best amateur boxer of Q., a good wrestler, a
grand oarsman and swimmer. He is a veteran of 36
years, with a nerve like Beach’s. During the ’9O flood he
rescued a 12-stone man who was paralysed with cramp,
taking him upon his back and swimming half-a-mile
with him. Winter is a swarthy, wiry, six-foot bachelor.
• # #
The Victorian crew for the next interprovincial
boat-race will probably be the strongest for many years.
The Yarra Yarra and Albert Park, practically the two
best Melbourne clubs, have hitherto held aloof owing to
the manual-labour restrictions, but will this year send
representatives. “Bob” Nicholson, of the Banks’Club,
is to be stroke, and will, perhaps, be the only member of
the last crew which won at Brisbane in this eight.
# # #
The N.S.W.'representative crew.it is threat-
ened, will be chosen in the same good old style. And
everybody knows what that means.
* # #
A couple of weeks ago half-a-dozen jockeys were
arrested at Prahran (Vic.) for brutally illtreating an old
man. However, when the case came on, the old man
hobbled into court on crutches with his head bandaged
and his face covered with sticking-plaster, and stated that
he had forgotten all about the occurrence ; also that so
far from belting him with sticks, the accused had always
treated him with the utmost courtesy, he might say kind-
ness. The case was dismissed. Being a prominent jockey
Seems to be about the best thing, next to a footballer, that
a suburban prisoner can be.
» # #
The stand taken by N.S.W. Government
against -boxing contests is out of symmetry with other
Governmental practices. Canova’s statues of the
“Boxers” are among the most highly approved of the
exhibits the Government offers to public inspection. Yet
the “ Boxers ” commemorates the most brutal incident
recorded in the history of pugilism.
# * #
George Giffen never gave the semblance of a
chance right through his innings of 181 against Victoria.
# # #
The Westralian cricket team will get a warm
time ere returning to Perth. They are a very second-rate
crowd.
• * •
A S.A. member of the Australian Eleven was
extremely “eccentric” during the match S.A. v. Victoria.
He ought ere now to have recovered from the “ influenza.”
* # #
George Giffen, although he took 11 wickets
and made 226 runs against Victoria for S.A., virtually lost
the match by dropping an easy catch from Laver, who
made nearly 70 runs afterwards.
* * *
Although Giffen was the hero of the S.A, v.
Victoria cricket-match, Lyons’ 62 in the second innings
was the finest innings the writer has seen for years.
Lyons is as brilliant as M'Donnell, with twice the power.
* * #
In the match S.A. v. Victoria, in Adelaide,
Geo. Giffen broke a bat with which he had made 2300
runs! The bat was originally discarded by brother
Walter.
‘* # #
The V.R.O.’s last meeting is said to have re-
sulted in a loss of £5OOO.
“* • #
A London paper considers that racing is not so
much the sport of kings as the sport of knaves. A n’ace
distinction.
# * #
A lord or an “honourable” is generally found
ip a University Eleven, but never in a University “ Eight.’
The cricket-field, we gather fr< m this, is better form than
the river, or, perhaps, the young nobility can’t raise the
extra inusgle required for pulling an oar.
* * #
The Australian cricketers are now fairly on the
water. If we have no longer a Murdoch and Spofforth—
even a Blackham—England has no longer a Grace, who is
in the second division of the first flight. No one will say
it is the best team, but it may possibly have the best
chance.
# # #
What sort of a team could S.A. put. into the
field without George Giffen? He took all the Victorian
wickets in the first innings of the recent interprovincial
match, while in the second attempt of his own team he
scored exactly half the runs.


BRIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
melliok Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Books, containing upwards of 700
Designs, bound in One Volume, post free, Is. 9d.
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
8326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Sun Cool end Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ao.
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually than any other preparation.
It is delightfully Cooliso and Refreshing if ffrplied to
the Face or Hands after being out in the Son. Tennis-
playing. Yachting, &c. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Son, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, ls.&2a. 6d. Sole Makers:
M. BEETHAM & SON. Chemists. Cheltenham. England..
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co. s
98 ; O’ConnellSt, N.Adelaide, S.Australia
If. Ci. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens. Euston Road, London.
Widow Welch’s Pills for Female Complaints.
TITUS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
-***- Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. -To
be careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receipe. The genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAPER, and signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smithers, and the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 67, St. Paul’s, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 2s! 9d. each, by
most chemists.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseuts, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Electric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. 6d., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(BEST IN THE WORLD.)
/tar To be obtained from all Grocers and Store-
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle 00., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. A.lexr. Daterson,
201 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
CARTER & C os
rpr-'df
h
UAL TABLE
(Non • RtvtßSiaLtP
rniHS Ingeniously Constructed I'll M IKD DINING-
I T lUI.il is acknowledged th ■ most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billityds have no equal, coin hi n-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES •*.■» to R7'4 Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-hoard, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins -31, Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
r - ; -
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortab’e ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, li,dd lockitijr chair. and is
a decide I hnprovein nt upon any oilier chair. I’scd by
ns in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <9t AITKEW,
new south wai.ks hauhkhs - suituv house'
USO «V George Slice!, .Sydney.
fd
PUREST.
SAFEST.
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins,
CHOKE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, niKEST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”—Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds—
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
li
m
w
BLOW
Dc
m
Ryland Read /
' . F(H ITC HINOfPC ZEM A
onilfiHNlFfiSA SKIN IRRITATI
feu
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
u&c
LON
V ON Df ' ondon.Paris&NewYork
■/ £ d V
ROADcf*IONDON.N.W.o^
A SANITARY, SOLUBLE ROSE
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes -in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE
WORLD.
h
/
K
5033
aa
THE
MOST
DELICIOUS
SAUCE
IN
THE
WORLD.
It makes cold meat a luxury.
Makes the plainest viands palatable.
Agrees with the most delicate digestion.
Possesses a pleasing piquancy.
Blends admirably with all gravies.
SIMPLY PERFECT WITH CHOPS, STEAKS, FISH, &c.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Tillock Sc Co., Kent & Liverpool Streets, Sydney.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS: GOOUALL, BACKHOUSE & CO.. LEEDS.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Winter on the Tablelands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On turbulent winds baying madly, ’mid chill mists that
dampened the air,
And shadowed the scrubs swaying sadly, May fled, with
wet, dishevelled hair—
May that had buried the Autumn, and blighted the last
starry trace
Of the fugitive blooms in the forests, fled with the rain in
her face,
With elfins of darkness around her, in a midnight of
tremors and tears,
And faint thunder-quakings vibrating, like dirges of
dread in her ears ;
By desolate swamps and morasses, and sullen lagoons
tossed and stirred,
By the fierce gales born in abysses where Summer’s dead
hopes are interred,
And lutes strung to gladness lie broken, since Beauty,
awe-struck at the knell
Of rapture and peace, pined despairing, and heart-
harrowed died, and ’twere well—
Ere May on the breath of the tempest, distracted and
doomed, winged her flight
From the scenes of her rugged caresses, thro’ the pitiless
depths of the night.
But briefly the winds bayed the valleys, ere vext by the
scowl of the hills,
June loosed the gates of the rain-clouds, and mad torrents
sprang from the rills,
Enchaflng the brows of the mountains where Winter,
storm-girt, harshly reigns—
Enthroned on the tomb of the thunder, and frowning
adown on the plains
That stretch far and free to the westward, by glimpses of
Yarrawand pine,
And homesteads yet heedless the wailing of waters dis-
traught and malign,
Or the sinister colours impugning the kind, soddened
soils, plough-impressed,
Or the petulant skies celebrating the nuptials of Wrath
and Unrest—
Impassioned traits of the uplands whose energies darkly
conclude
The early phillippics of winter—orisons gloomy and rude
Of genii that nurture confusion—harbingers hopeless and
drear
Of riot and cold and contention in months that are
mourned of the year.
For the ram ceased anon, at the bidding of acrid fore-
bodings invest
With tlie message of merciless phases that mornings
embittered attest —
Enfeebling the heat of the sunbeams, stealthily glimpsing
in dread
Of the moods yet perturbing the welkin—thro’ vapours
and mists overhead.
And presently days that were chastened by keen, stinging
breaths of July—
Days that wore balefully-briiliant meridional days—
hurried by,
And nights that were frigid succeeded the querulous days
—keen and brief—
Nights that distilled the dews falling, and harassed the
herb and the leaf—
Nights that grew coldly-distinctive in star-shine that
glimmered in scorn
Of the shivering kine, weirdly-huddled, awaiting the
coming of morn—
Till hoar-frosts heralded August, and icicles vengefully
clung
To the mosses and shrubs and the bushes the songsters
were silent among.
And a tyrannic interim followed—a cycle of rigours
extreme
That hardened the frost-cum be red meadow, and wrinkled
the ice-crusted stream,
Till *skies that were lately forbearing grew dark with
resentment again,
And storm-clouds anew congregated, and fiercely recur-
ring, the rain
Dismally fell thro’ the shadows, and eastward to ocean
the floods,
With hoarse, moaning chords in their currents, swept
headlong thro’ ravines and woods,
By solitudes ireful and moody, and hillsides, whence
sullen and swift,
Swollen creeks rushed to the rivers freighted with dead-
wood and drift;
Till conflicting gusts interpleaded, and sombre gums
swayed to and fro,
Lamenting the death of the “climax” promised by the
soft, falling snow
That came with the lull of south-easters, prevailing ere
August’s last days
Ebbed o’er the white, sterile ridges, and fled from the
“nebulous ” ways.
For the sleet-cirri, fleecily-scudding, o’ershadowed the
lands lying dim,
And fantastic flakes, fleetly-whirling, flickered the pond
and the limb,
Mantled serenely the landscape in mystical vesture of
white,
And drifted in heaps down the valleys blown on the wings
of the night,
And dreamily mottling the cities and roofs of the farm-
houses stout —
While careless, the hearth-gleams agiowing, the juveniles
frolicked without—
Transmuted, a moment, the scenics, till spectres and
snow-castles hid
The forms of the styles and the gateways, and sculptures
the gardens amid,
Ere thawing anon in a morning that rifted the September
skies
And tinted the snow-smitten summits in lustres that
shone “ by surprise,”
Till the booming of thunders returning trumpeted odes
grave and grand,
Proclaiming the sudden finale of winter all over the land—
Winter—Niob6 of Passion, and daughter of ire and
discord
That vanished unmourned and intestate, like Delilah, the
scorned and abhorred,
At the first cheery signs of the coming of idylls and
thrills of the spring—
The sunbursts and showers alternating, and carols of birds
on the wing—
The vengeance of Beauty reviving by green lustrous
arbours and ways
Woo’d by sweet, buoyant season of gladness and promise
and praise.
G.M.A.
On the publication of the plan of the pro-
posed N.S.W. Easter military manoeuvres the
other day, several—seven or eight, so ’tis said-
officers at once sent in medical certificates accom-
panying applications for exemption from duty.


“German
yrup”
Asthma.
“ I have been a great'
sufferer from Asth-
ma and severe Colds
every Winter, and last Fall my
friends as well as myself thought
because of my feeble condition, and
great distress from constant cough-
ing, and inability to raise any of the
accumulated matter from my lungs,
that my time was close at hand.
When nearly worn out for want of
sleep and rest, a friend recommend*
ed me to try thy valuable medicine,
Boschee’s German
Syrup. I am con-
fident it saved my
life. Almost the first
dose gave me great
relief and a gentle re-
freshing sleep, such as I had not had
for weeks. My cough began immedi-
ately to loosen and pass away v , and
I found myself rapidly gaining in
health and weight. I am pleased
to inform thee —unsolicited —that I
am in excellent health and do cer-
tainly attribute it to thy Boschee’s
German Syrup. C. B. Stickney,
Picton, Ontario,” @
Gentle,
Refreshing
Sleep.
Established 1876..
fd
' WRITE *OB
D«
HAIR’S
r TREATISE
OH I
asthmaJ
f
d
Agents
Sydney: tiiiorcbror,
BANE: Elliott BrO?»(? i
ESHTctT/
Elliott Brof
ORIS
Ao : LAI D
Wellington
and »C
s*rs>.
ana
send Treatise nru Testimonials
testimonials frt^
nnvAddi
eRY
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUMi
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
°nd Street
Beware of imitations. The genuine assigned
fd
■a
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
FOE
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ 1 think them such very
good stays, amt those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort*
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.R.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure witbou't the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with pld shapes; insist on
having our now King waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 18,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
Story told By Lorimer Fison, the veteran
Fiji missionary. Some 35 years ago he converted
a young chief, who, as time went on, developed
into an apparently earnest Christian. He taught
in the schools and preached on Sundays, and for
30 years made no slip from the path of virtue.
But his hour of temptation came. He lost a
valuable pig, whereupon he fell upon his knees and
prayed the white man's God to help him in his
quest. Then girded lie up his loins and searched,
but in vain—also the next day, and the next.
On the fourth day, after his usual suppli-
cation, he went forth and explored the bush,
far and near. At length, wearied and despon-
dent, he turned his steps homeward, and note
how Satan ever puts temptation in the way of the
unwary! His road led past a “Devil Devil”
tree, the home of an ancient Fiji god, whom in
his youth he had worshipped. For a moment he
paused before it and thought. The white man’s
God had not helped him in his sore straits not-
withstanding his prayers ; peradventure, the god
of his fathers would have pity on him. Straight-
way ho lit the sacred fire, and peeled off the white
man’s clothes, then danced he wild and furiously,
and yelled his awful prayers. Exhausted with
the fervency of his devotions he at length
resumed his way, but had not proceeded
far ere he found the long - lost pig. He
took the grunter home, and having placed
it in safety, tore off his clothes and anointed
his person with pigments of many hues. Then,
tying a tapa round his loins, went he forth to
interview Mr. Fison. In the calm of that tropic
evening the good missionary saw a sight which for
many a year he had not beheld —a naked, painted
Fijian dancing towards his house. As the fan-
tastic form came nearer and nearer, the missionary
recognised with horror and amazement his favourite
pupil and friend. Up danced the Fijian, indig-
nation in many colours expressed on every portion
of his person. When close to Mr. Fison ‘ he
stopped, and regarding him with a look of lofty
contempt, he proceeded to speak : —
What name ! long time man missionary make him fool
belong a man Fiji. All time you tell him, suppose he
want him something. Ah! God belong a white man he
give him. Suppose him sick, God make him all right
suppose him pray good fellow ; suppose him lose him
something, God give him good fellow eye belong a find
him. That fellow talk, he no good, he all same d d lie,
me savey. Me lose him hig, big fellow pig, me pray
belong a God He find him, me go look, me no find him ;
three fellow day me pray and me look plenty, me no catch
him pig. To-day me been pray, then me go look, me
walk, walk, walk plenty, me no find him that fellow pig.
By and by me go Devil Devil place belong old follow god
belong man Fiji. Me pray along a him small fellow, me
go away and me find him pig plenty quick. Ah! God
belong a you be no good, He no savey find him pig,
He savey nothing'
And the indignant chief spat contemptuously on
the ground, marched olf, and was never seen in
either church or school again.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOUR.
< * rnALES OK THE CONVICT SYSTEM.’
I Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
<£49,460 worth for <£l.
See Amusement
Column.
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cutlcura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
CUTIGURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
<* tr
V,
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura. Rerie
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
4®- “How TO Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” 64 pages, 3°o Diseases, r
Illustrations, too Testim nials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50: ; Cuticura Soap, 250.:
Cuticura Resolvent, si» Prepared by Potper Drug and Chemical Corpora i i Boston, XJ. S. / •
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by Cuticura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin.
fclie Best £Ea*ii?-X>x*essi]nLg.
5 U
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
HAI
E
m
AFTER USE.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB,
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned nAQ OAT MT7QQ From whatever
Remedy F S\ DALUiIDOy cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers antl Moustachios ithas never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
000000
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO.. 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
fd
I
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus :
a.
Ask for Lea k Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., sc.;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY*
THE
• Plum’
mm
pm VHf
THE
‘Pru lx*h’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
j Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10j. (kl. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 213?
(Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to ana of the A ustralian colonics , Queensland and ls. extra
Sole
Accents •
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street. SYDNEY
Steelson’s Cords.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Blenheim, in West Queensland, was usually a
town of the sleepy order. In the middle of the
day it was just possible that a dog and a horse in
hobbles would be the only sign of life visible in
the street —there teas only one. Just now it was
full of life and bustle, and beer was five shillings a
bottle. The annual races and show were on
together. The air was full of horse and pedigree,
and a man who didn’t know that Starcross was
half-brother to Flyhigh was an object of scorn.
Wizened strangers were visible, who, for no just
reason, were supposed to be famous jockeys from
afar, attracted by the importance of the local
gathering. The publicans were all coining money
and every self-respecting blackfellow was comfort-
ably drunk by nightfall. The Blenheim
Patriot had risen to the occasion, and came out
with a daily special containing nothing but racing
news.
Early one morning there was consternation in
the atmosphere. Some knowing individual had
“gone through” the entire township. Watches
and chains, pocket-books and all loose coin had
been remorselessly appropriated by clever hands.
One man alone was satisfied amongst the general
wretchedness. His name was Steelson, and he
was the leading auctioneer and sport of the place.
A good deal of money had been confided to his
care, on the course, to hold for bets. This, and
his own winnings, he had stuffed into the pockets
of his trousers. He went to bed late and threw
his garments carelessly on the chair. In about an
hour he awoke, with an uneasy kind of feeling
that all was not right. He remembered the
money, and, taking it out of the pockets of his
trousers, put it beneath his pillow and fell sound
asleep. Next morning his money was there, bub
—the trousers were gone.
It was a very clean haul, and amongst the crowd
of riff-raff from all parts, it was difficult to place
the culprit or culprits. One thing seemed very
clear. Someone on the course had noticed Steel-
son carelessly stuffing the rolls of notes into his
pockets, had kept an eye on him during the
evening, and when the turn of his room came, had
gone straight for the trousers. Whoever had
Steelson’s unmentionables had the rest of the loot.
The fun was nearly over, nothing had been
heard of the thief, and the horses, show-cattle and
sheep were on the move back to their homes.
Millie, the pretty and popular barmaid at the
Royal, was just starting out for a ride with a new
admirer, a stranger to the place, who had been
staying over the race-time. Millie was a tall, well-
formed girl, capital figure, and a good horse
woman. As she passed down the street a pig,
Eursued by some dogs, issued squealing from
eneath one of the houses, and her horse gave a
sudden shy. This was nothing, but he stumbled
and, recovering, made ft frightened, vicious side-
buck. Even then Millie might have stuck to him
but he followed it up so quickly that she was
thrown with her foot iri the stirrup-iron. Half-a-
dozen hands were on the bridle before any harm
was done, and Steelson released the boot from the
iron.
“By !” he exclaimed as he dropped her
foot, “ she’s got my trousers on ! ”
At the words Millie’s cavalier jammed his spurs
in and made a break through the startled crowd
and over the downs, but an active young trooper
was after him ere he nad got far, and in less than
five miles he was run down. Nearly all the stolen
property was recovered with the exception of a
little of the loose coin. But for Millie’s mishap
they would probably have got clear, as she owned
that they intended to take a long ride that after-
noon and get rid of the pants.
Steelson’s Bedford-cord trousers are now his-
torical in Blenheim.
D.


9*
V
iy
%
H
[>'
1
“GRATEFUL RESULTS”
Mps. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennyslvania, U. S. A.
A Life of Suffering and Misery, without
Sleep, without Appetite, with Bowels al-
ways Out of Order.
Restored to Health by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
"Last Spring. I was grievously afflicted
with Biliousness and liver Complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every morn-
ing, my tongue thickly coated, my breath was
offensive ; food distressed me, I suffered much
from headache, my skin was sallow, and my
bowels were always out of order. Sleep did
not refresh me, nor did the many remedies,
recommended do me any good. At last I com-
menced using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and my im-
provement began almost from the first dose. It
relieved the distress about my liver, regulated
my bowels, caused food to set well on my stomach,
cured my headache, improved my complexion,
and restored my appetite. These unlooked for,
but grateful, results were accomplished by only
two and a half bottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla."—
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, Altoona, Pa., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you#
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of Tork-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-dots Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30a. per WEEK.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
lEai-AIEsT-D CAMERAS FOE
THE EASTER HOLIDAYS.
COMPLETE
OUTFITS
FROM
£2 2s.
UPWARDS.
Easily Worked.
No Troublk.
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
•* .yW
/ *
C . i
wastes
’ - - S‘
v, -
Mi
mi
SB
o^SV
&
II
PHOTOGRAPH
YOUR
FRIENDS
6n
PICNIC,
Yachting
AND
HOLIDAY
EXCURSIONS
Send for KTew Illustrated Catalogue
—TO— '
BAKER & BOUSE, 375 George Street, Sydney
(DIRECTLY OPPOSITE SYDNEY ARCADE); and at
256 Collins St., Melbourne; 69 Bundle St., Adelaide ; 46 Queen St., Brisbane.
B.MOONTCASTIE&SPHs
OlHECT IMPORTERS 4 MAN0FACT0RER5
. Of HATcS & CAPS
°T MEAD I \ m
<St
«! ■'■.■$
r \
im
■ ■ • ’ -
f
ftm Qjoksey & [p's [eubrated Ionoom Hats
When ordering number of hot will be sufTicicnl
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY
AND THE
Greatest Show in the Whole of Australia.
IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED ON BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO
There are no Intermediary charges or
All goods are marked in plain figures.
m A^)hM^n^^y^it^^^ame l seciuitj^aa^the 1 most
J r\ 4. oVinro-url fn r>nr nat.rons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
Magnificent (Stock of jewellery*
ALL AT FREETRALE PRICES.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Qem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays Bracelets. Superb Brooches—birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment, Wedding and Keeper Rings, a special variety.
All at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess. Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 16 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 oarat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets. Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Peppei Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Classes in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
6d. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Cold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Classes at lower prices than ever, before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purges (pOrtmonnaies), Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen's
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment, of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entree Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style. Solid Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Pish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 265.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
Watcnes,
direct
Diamonds, Jewellery, silver-plate.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
PROM T ZEE IE MAUTJPAOTTJBEES TO 5 ',. , m
STEWART DAWSOH & CO/S
WORLD-FAMED
ENGLISH LEVERS.
Deware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
£3 6 s 'lever.
and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Wei! worth £6. g co>s Grand Liverp ool ENGLISH
L U HUNTING LEVER ; every known nnprove-
Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
Beware of imitations.
I aS.—S. D. and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
IU ing LEVERS. Three pairs extra Jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection.
Ar i aS.—S. D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
3J O ilf HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£3
.pient.
£6 6s.
£4
£8 Bs.
£5
1 __s D. and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
1U LISH HUNTING LEVER. Unequalled.
Oo 1 aS.— S. D. and CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
3UD Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear ; without equal.
r» 1 A - S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
wl v> Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER,
p, . aS.—S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
3J L 1 - J and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
:R^S.-S K D R, and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
dU I 0 WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £1 12s. 6d.
ftc i n s —S. D.'and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies
dbO 1 U Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable. ....... „
£>Q 1 AS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
3JO 1U an ,i CO.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
P,a i aS., £l2 10s., £l5 10s., to £25.-S. D. and
3UIU CO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals.
o A c AND oca -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
ab4o KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking.
waltham watches. Rotherham’s English Levers,
We hold the largest stock of these to be found on the
Australian continent, and we ask every reader to compare
ours with the prices you have been paying. Notwithstand-
ing the duty of 15 per cent, recently put on by the
Government, the following will be found from 12J to
40 per cent, lower than Waltham Watches have ever
been sold in Sydney:—
Gent’s Silver Hunters, full plate .. .. ..£2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .. - .. 212 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. .. 30 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, J-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels .. 44 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance 610 0
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 710 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat *“ *2 9
Oent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladu s’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver cases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets,
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition.
If GTE.—Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip-
tion by the best WORKMEN.
Stewart Dawson and Co.’s Watch and Mery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET, and STRAND ARCADE, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE and AUCKLAND.
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent
“ Klepto ” is off the track. The young official
sentenced by acting-Judge Harris got two years,
not for stealing 10s., but for forging an order for
the delivery of a registered letter—an offence
usually punished in England with from three to
five years’ penal servitude. The maximum penalty
in N.S. W. for stealing a post-letter, irrespective of
contents, is seven years. The gravity of the
offence is not always measureable by money. A
letter may mean life or death.— Sealing Wax.
Dear Bulletin, —Be your par. of 18th insfc.,
“The priests of Kilkenny have taken up arms
against .... Tom Curran, Jun., M.P., for
marrying Marie Brooks.” The social and political
god of the priests of Kilkenny for 30 years was a
R.C. married man, a notorious seducer, separated
from his wife; he was attended to in his last
illness by his last victim. That man and a relative
of his hunted as a couple, and the M.P. paid the
priest of his parish <£loo a year. There is no
sentiment of democracy in Ireland, nor amongst
the Irish-bred R.C.’s anywhere else. They will
shout for Democracy if it suits the priests to lead
them, but they will as willingly shout for the
death of Democracy if it suits the priest to lead
in that direction, which, of course, it will, the
former being a cover in order to arrive at the
latter.— Turramurra. [This The Bulletin ac-
cepts as an indictment, not specially of Irish R.O.
priests and people, but of priestcraft generally.
No man can be a Democrat who allows any other
man, or set of men, to prescribe for him his
religious belief.—Ed. B.]
Dear Bulletin, —Your inaugural “ Miss-
ing Word ” Competition has suggested to me the
fact that there is material for psychological study
in the result thereof. I saw that a correspondent
wrote to you protesting that the missing word was
not very a/zropos to the context of the sentence
given, and you admitted there was some ground
for his assertion, but pointed out that over 40
had guessed the correct word. I have a theory to
ventilate, which is to the effect that the human
mind differs materially (in different sections of
people) in'its chains of inductive reasoning. Thus,
for instance, had the word been, say, “clannish-
ness,” I venture to say the majority of your
correct guessers might not have thought of the
word in a hundred guesses. For my own part, I
thought the word was “madness,” or “ effron-
tery,” or one of their respective correlatives, and
had I sent in any guesses I should have selected
some synonyms of the words cited. As it was, I
left it too late, and now realise that, in my case at
least, if “Procrastination is the thief of Time,”
he is sometimes the saviour of pence.—Yours sin-
cerely, George Powick Browne. Wellington,
Maoriland.
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE AUS-
TRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
As the retirin'? Director, who is eligible for re-election,
I have the honour to respectfully seek a renewal of the
confidence you so kindly placed in me in 1887 and 1890.
Should I be so fortunate as to be successful in my can-
didature, it will be my endeavour in the future,’ as it
has been in the past, to discharge the duties of a Director
to the best of my ability. Allow me to take this oppor-
tunity to place on record my obligations to late and
present colleagues on the Board tor their extreme kind-
ness in electing me to the position of Deputy Chairman
daring the past three years.
I am, ladies and gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Sydney, March *5,1893.


PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL
* The open-cufc system of mi nine: has absolutely
destroyed the Broken Hill from which Willyama takes its
name.
There are in N.S.W. about 80 persons
possessed of an income of .£10,000 a year and
upwards.
The Mission House in Liverpool-street,
Sydney, conducted by Mr. Lewis, runs a restau-
rant on a unique scale. The bill of fare is soup
and bread, Id.; meat, potatoes and bread, Id.;
bread and tea, Id. “ One can get as substantial,
as clean and as wholesome a meal for 2d. here, as
he can in most of the 6d. restaurants,says the
Sunday Times.
The result of the use of stereotyped stories
in Victorian country papers :—
Boys, it’s a darned mean trick to play on a fatherless
boy who’s got an old mother to support, and I can’t git
over it. Seventy cents for this hull crowd ! I’ve walked
(To be Continued.)
The stereo, column ended at this unsatisfactory
stage, and the continuation of the yarn was
evidently not available.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (Qeorge-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address—Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*
CADBURY'S COCOA
ft.
ssr
'' :J
m
Ed«t
W.
s®ag
,; ii
Jilifiii
m
m
m
: •
i**
mm
m
0
w*. »*>
2*V
arv
■
|9V
ml
V-’'
Sfe‘s
.'!''sEsS,
\
«■
.■Vy"
■ :*.
3=,®W‘
uv;
aiv
ss»t
es
-•«• a
Ssb
vsr
US
Kjgh»
■»
«
agSgiß i
fv '-«
►••Sis** 7 -’ "=*Svr-r? >■
SBiSiSEnuF* 5 * 1 "
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely f ure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting-new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
Blackmailing an Aunt.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
My aunt Butterby ought to have been a man .
there was no doubt about that. She was the most
close-fisted old cat that ever owned a large bank-
account. The professional beggars, women and
parsons, had long since given her up as a hopeless
case. She was my late father’s sister, a maiden
lady of nearly fifty years, and one of the sharpest
business women in Sydney.
If I had mentioned to any of her acquaintances
that I intended applying to her for a loan I should
have been greeted with scornful laughter.
For all that my resolution was taken—by hook
or by crook, Aunt Butterby must be made to
stand and deliver.
She hated me. She hated the Potts Point
society in which I was trying to maintain a
precarious footing on the income of a clerk in the
Lands. She hated pretty girls and it was the fact
of being in love with one of extra prettiness
which caused me to be in such desperate financial
strai ts.
The circle in which my masculine aunt moved
was composed of hard - headed business folk,
who looked at me with scorn. Men with plenty
of girth, who never read a line beyond the news-
papers.
It was after a sleepless night that I arose one
Saturday morning with my plan fully developed.
By many reckless expedients I had got together
the slim of £5. This formed my modest capital
for levying toll on Aunt Butterby, She lived at
Eninore in a house of her own, and thither I made
my way.
Roc Villa was the name of the place, and in due
course I was ushered in by my aunt’s grim servant.
My wealthy relative merely nodded and regarded
me sternly.
“My dear aunt,” I began, “I am in great
trouble and distress.”
She maintained her silence and I stammered on
—“ Knowing the kindness of your heart, I have
come to you for help.”
Here there was a snort of wrath and a lean fore-
finger pointed to the door.
“ A little assistance now may save me from dis-
grace ”
“Just what I expected. Embezzler, thief ! Go
and hang yourself,” said my aunt still pointing to
the door.
I went; I only wanted to give the old lady one
more chance and prime myself for the deed. At
the door I paused. “Farewell ; and when you
come to me for assistance may you find me less
hard-hearted.”
But I had other work to do at Enmore. In
that suburb, but in a somewhat obscure part of it,
there resided a horsey man of doubtful character
with whom, in my character of amateur “sport,”
I had become acquainted. At present he was as
down on his luck as I was. I sought him out and
we hacra. long conversation.
“It’s just this way, Mr. Butterby,” he said, at
the conclusion of our talk; “there’s no harm in
it, I know ; but it’s the chaff I’ll get slung at me
and the fights which will have to be fought.
When I tell a man as I’ve changed my name ’cos
I’ve come into a bit of property, why ! he’ll tell
me straight, I’m a liar. However, I’ll do it for
the money.”
“ And about the name of the house?” I asked.
“ That’ll be all correct. When I pay up some o’
the back rent, I can call it just what I please.”
On Monday morning, my aunt, who still re-
tained the feminine practice of glancing first at
the first column of the morning paper, looked—
read-gave one awful shriek and fainted for the
first and last time. The servants who came to
revive her, read in the fatal sheet :
BUTTERUY—At her residence, Roc Villa, Eninore,
June 1, 1884. Mrs. Louisa Anne Buttorby, of a daughter.
Country papers please copy.
When she came to herself and controlled her
feelings sufficiently to examine the horrid thing,
the date puzzled her ; “1884,” and this was 1893.
My aunt consulted her lawyer. This was evi-
dently a villainous outrage on a respectable maiden
lady,, and the perpetrators must be punished. The
lawyer took her instructions, and, in due time,
communicated with her. Nothing could be done
in the matter. The advertisement was genuine,
inserted by a man, who stated that he had lately
assumed the name of Butterby with a little pro-
perty that had come to him. It was a fancy of
his wife’s to now commemorate the birth of all
her children, and, added the lawyer, “he has eight
of them.’’
My aunt looked at that morning’s paper ; there
was the notice again, excepting that the date was
altered to July, 1885. Strong-minded woman as
she was, she shuddered at the prospect before her.
Already she had had to endure most indelicate
chaff, for commercial magnates are not particularly
refined. She felt that she must act personally.
Next morning found her at the door of a poor
habitation, which, however, bore in fresh new
paint, the title of “Roc Villa.”
Mr. Butterby, late Mangles, received her per-
sonally. My aunt came to the point at once, and
demanded the reason of that gentleman’s late pro-
ceedings.
“ I will be frank with you, mum,” he returned.
“I took the name of Butterby after a dear voung
gentleman who saved my life. It is all I could do
to show my gratitude, and I’ve done it.”
“But that is no reason you should go on pub-
lishing the births of all your children.”
“That, ma’am, is an idea of my wife’s. We
had a bit of money left us, and she thinks it the
fashionable thing to do—she’s a rare one for
style.”
“What was the Christian name of the young
man who, you say, saved your life ?”
“His name, mum, was Alexander.”
My aunt glanced around the shabby room.
“If I gave you five pounds, would you cease
this absurd thing and take your proper name
again ? ”
The late Mr. Mangles shook his head. “No,
mum, if so be the young gentleman asked me his-
self, I might think of it, but as to the other thing,
my wife’s heart is just set on it, and being in a
delicate condition, expecting, in fact—my cross-
ing her now might be the death of her.”
My aunt swept out of the place and went home.
Next morning, amongst the births, appeared the
fact that in August, 1886, Mrs. Louisa Anne
Butterby had presented her spouse with twins.
That day my relation came to see me. I had
prepared for this. ,
I got my hundred pounds.
The Days of '84.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Let’s go back on to the Roper, whore they say
they’ve struck the stuff,
For this Broken Hill is vanished—of its corpse
we’ve had enough.
And the Hill is “ hill ” no longer—just a wide and
deep costeen,
And the sun in Silver City earlier by an hour is
seen. *
Blast their starving contract system, blast their
new electric light,
Blast their hard, church-fearin’ living, what won’t
let ’em go get tight,
But allows ’em all to swindle, and allows ’em all
to screw
The poor devils which is married and can’t buck
like me an’ you.
For this isn’t Broken Hill,
Where we used to drink our fill,
When sweat was gold and gold was dirt, we seen
none such before.
In the days of ’B4
They were grit right to the core—
They were men we had to deal with in the days
of ’B4.
An’ though we’d no policemen there was very
little crime—
Not quarter that you’ve got there now in this
boiled-shirted time.
The days are altered for the worse, and the very
same intent
That ’ud make us shoot thieves then would send
’em now to Parliament,
D’ye remember Dan O’Connell goin’ to Wilcannia
Gaol,
Because he bust a meetin’ of the Army with a
pail;
D’ye call to mind the way the War Dance holding
got its name,
When that crowd of boozy brokers danced stark-
naked round the claim ?
In the old days of the Hill,
When we couldn’t drink our fill,
And Walter Sully gave us tick for grub to tide us
o’er,
In the days of ’B4
Ere the time of sulphide ore—
They were men we had to deal with in the days
of ’B4.
Do you mind the first young woman who to
Silverton was sent ?
How she married Sims one morning, and at
night hung in her tent ?
D’ye remember Bob the Finisher? Durant’s
Dinny ? Jersey Clarke ?
And the chap that fell into our shaft, meanderin’
in the dark ?
And Sugar, Roberts’ barmaid? and that little
Doctor Winn,
Who ordered rum for typhoid, an’ prescribed, for
toothache, gin?
And Jim Swan at Purnamoota, and the Siam
Ruby find—
Which the same was merely garnets and the
rubies was a blind.
’Ere they put the pavements down and flagged
this dear old Argent-street,
Where the whirlwinds one time used to come and
lift you off your feet.
In the old days of the Hill,
When we’d do just what we’d will,
When we’d only got to truck with men who grit
were to the core ;
In the days of ’£4 -
Days we’ll see again no more—-
They were men we had to deal with in the days
of ’B4.
So, good-bye unto the city that’s respectable and
bad ;
The men that’s lying in the dust’s the best it ever
had;
And nearly all the honesty is lyin’ underground,
And its mostly awful swindlin’ that’s in this'place
to be found.
They’ve finished Bob the Finisher, and ditto
Apple Jack,
An’ Tom Long has joined the good ’uns on the new
prospectin’ track,
An’ the only men of ’B4 you’ll find in Silver Town
’S German Harry and Dutch Ikey an’ the coves
who ought to drown.
So, let’s go on to the Roper, where they say
they’ve struck the stuff,
An’ p’rhaps we’ll get the chlorides and meet a
crowd that’s rough,
An’ find a new Old Broken Hill, and find the
boys again
Who are gone, or dead an’ buried in a Barrier hill
or plain.
An’ we’ll strike a thousand-ouncer, an’ we’ll keep
it good an’ straight
Till along comes Mr. “Rigger,” and his lyin
“ expert ” mate.
An’ we’ll find a Broken Hill,
Where we’ll do just as we will;
Where these thief directors never will get us down
on the floor,
For in golden ’B4
We had them down, and more !
We were men, and we dealt straight with all in
the days of ’B4.
Melb.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


PBMELL’S
A ‘ GUAIWLATED WHEAT MEAL,
Advfc. in the Miasma (Q.), Decomposer
NOTICE.—On and after this date no person will be
buried by me, unless my charges are paid in advance.—
J. Planter, Undertaker, Miasma, 14th. Jan.
At St. George (Q.) there are two entirely
hairless aborigines—supposed to be the only
survivors of an entirely hairless tribe which dwelt
thereabouts.
“ When the new communities of the
civilised world have to choose a govern-
ment, they must choose one in which all the
institutions are of an obvious evident utility.”
(Are you listening, Barton ?) “ A new country
need not fall back into the fatal divisions of
powers incidental to presidential government; it
may obtain the ready, well-placed sovereignity of
the English Constitution, under the unroyal form
of Parliamentary Government. Bagkhot.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., ate banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Colbmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra. N.S.W
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin,‘and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
(Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons, England.'}
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to' maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
§nd tftb most eminent Shin Specialists award it
Ute first place among Toilet Soaps.
#3
~ is: i:; ;ii ijji I) | L
in
'A®
m
mm
«
I
fj ~ 'fijiil/l
V: lik,, I ' ’ i
1 [ii//id I i I
S’.-: 'r• //*/• .V/
m.
■AV>
i
"V v V<
The Bold M'Shane.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I had just come from North Queensland and met
him in one of those unspeakably quiet Tasmanian
midland townships where I intended to have a
few weeks’ spell. We were old mates, in fact had
been boys together. Before I went to Queensland
we had worked in the tin mines, where he was a
great favourite with all hands. He was then
about 20 years old. Tall, good-hearted, and reck-
less, the lads had christened him “ The Bold
M ‘Shane.”
“ What in the name of goodness are you doing
here, Mac. ? ” was my first question.
“Spending my honeymoon, Juan. Quiet place,
you know ; come along and I’ll show you the old
woman.”
She was a pretty girl, but had, I thought, a
flippant and flirtive manner that boded ill for her
husband’s ultimate peace of mind.
He had, he said, bought a farm and done well.
“ I’d like to put in a couple of months with you
at the old game, Juan,” he said. “ What do you
say if I take the old lady home and come down
next week? I believe there’s some tin ground at
the mouth of the Musselroe worth prospecting,
and as the weather is first-class and the coast-
fishing good, it will be a spell for you at the
same time.” _ ,
After having laughingly told him that the Jews
did not allow newly-married men to go to war,
and that they should also be disqualified as pros-
pectors, I consented to this arrangement; the
combination of business with pleasure suited me
exactly.
Ten days later saw us and a packhorse proceed-
ing leisurely up the east coast. We halted now
and then for a day’s fishing and did a little pros-
pecting. Save for a few flies and mosquitoes the
climate would have passed for that of Elysium,
and, indeed, after my experiences in khe torrid
north, it seemed to me an earthly paradise.
Nevertheless, I fell seriously ill. M'Shane rode
to one of the coast townships and fetched a
doctor. The medico said fever, probably con-
tracted during a few days’ stay in Launceston.
He wanted me to shift, but I refused, as I con-
sidered I would be j ust as well off in camp as in
a rowdy coast caravanserai. M‘Shane engaged a
young fellow to stop with us and ride down now
and then for medicine. Mac. tended me like a
woman, and often sat up fanning me through the
warm February nights.
In a few weeks I began to recuperate and was
able to knock about the camp while Mao. and the
hired man prospected.
One night, as we sat round the fire smoking,
Mao. preserved an unusual silence. At* last he
said; “Juan, your father was a Spaniard. I
want to ask you a question.”
“ What is it, amigo mio ?”
“ What is your opinion of women, Juan ? You
foreign chaps generally know a lot about them.”
The young fellow and I laughed. “They are
about as good as men, or, perhaps, a little better,
Mac.,” I said. “ They make faithful wives some-
times, and good mothers nearly always. What
more can be expected of them ?”
“You are right, Juan,” he said, “_we can
expect no more. I suppose it is not wise for a
married man to stop away from his wife too
lo ° g It is not wise, Mac.,” I replied.
We found nothing payable, and after we had
been out about three months we returned. My
illness had caused the trip to last longer than we
had intended. I parted from Mac. at the coast
township. I had decided to return to the tropical
North. He made me promise that I would visit
his place when next I came to Tasmania.
After nearly three years I again went South,
and on reaching Launceston sent Mac. a telegram
announcing my arrival. I then proceeded to buy,
as a present for Mac.’s wife, a few things
likely to find favour in feminine eyes. Mac.
met me at the station on the North-Western line
where I got off, and drove me home in his trap.
He said he was very comfortable and happy.
On arriving he said, “Did I tell you I was married
again ? Let me introduce you.”
Mrs. M‘Shane No. 2 was a quiet, amiable and
well-preserved woman of about thirty-eight, with,
so far as I could remember, however, a curious
facial resemblance to Mac.’s first wife. I stopped
a month, and quickly formed the opinion that,
whatever Mae.’s first wife had been, his second
was a jewel. They had one child.
The night before I left I said, “ Mac., how long
did your first wife live? When did you get
married the second time ? ”
“Why, I wrote to you and told you all about
it, Juan.”
“I never got the letter,” I replied.
“Well, Juan, my first wife was a waster. She
picked up with some fellow that time we were out
prospecting, and cleared with him shortly after I
went back. Her mother was a nice woman and a
widow, and seemed much cut over her daughter’s
conduct. I got a divorce from my first wife, and
on the principle that two bullets never_ strike in
the one place, I married her mother quietly, and
a good wife to me she is. I don’t know whether
it is legal, and I don’t care, nor does she. I sup-
pose you think me a hard case, Juan ?”
I grasped my old friend’s hand and smiled.
“You are a philosopher. You married your
mother-in-law. Always so brave! the Bold
M'Shane! ”
JEROME DABNET.
A MEETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He wasn’t very clever, and he wasn’t very good,
And extremely old and seedy were the clothes in which he
stood ; . ..
I thought he smelt of liquor when he grasped me by the
hand,
But I hailed him as a brother, for—he came from Maori-
land.
I was a trifle thankful when he said that he must go ;
He wasn’t an acquaintance most folks would care to
know ;
He was chummy with the spielers at the corner of the
“ Grand ”
When we were in Dunedin—down there in Maonland.
But I stood and watched the steamer as she swung from
out the wharf,
And I felt a kind o’ choking in the region of my scarf
As I thought of summers vanished, when—a hard-up
merry band—
We were shearing—“ down the Dunstan in far-off
Maoriland.
And I wandered slowly homeward, and I didn’t go to bed,
But sat dreaming by the firelight and smoked a pipe
instead. . ,
And I drank his health in water—there was nothing else
at hand—
For the sake of fern and tussock and dear Old MaonJand.
Hobart,
TAIWAL.
Aboriginal Impulse.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The blackfellow stood on one leg rubbing the sole
of his other foot against his knee, after a habit
they have. He had just brought over a “ paper-
yabber” from the next station, and was awaiting
his reward of flour and tobacco. He was an object
of great interest to the six-year old youngster,
belonging to the married couple on the station,
who was staring at him with a fixed gaze or
admiration. The child knew the other blacks
about the place ; they used to carry water and do
odd jobs, but this was a man of a new kind. He
was very wild-looking, and he had nothing on put
an old dirty handkerchief tied round his loins.
Evidently he didn’t like the intense stare of
the little boy, for he scowled at him ; but
the youngster was unabashed and kept up
his interested gaze while his father gave the native
the flour and tobacco and some bread and meat.
The blackfellow went to where the station blacks
were camped, and, after a few words, squatted
down and commenced devouring his food. The
little boy followed and watched him, still fasci-
nated. This must be one of the wild blacks he
had heard about. What a lucky boy he was to
see one! The messenger scowled up at the lad
and shifted uneasily, but just then one of the
men came along, and, speaking to the boy, picked
him up and carried him along with him to the
The super, came out, and calling one of the
station blacks, explained to him that the messenger
was to wait until the morning, as he had an answer
Ijo send back.
The youngster stole back to the camp again to
feast his eyes on the wonderful wild man with the
big wales on his arms and back, and the shock
head of hair. If he could only touch him, what a
brave boy he would be !
That night he dreamed of him. He was not a
bit frightened, only attracted. He could no more
keep away from the neighbourhood of the man
than an English boy can help skating or sliding
on thin ice. , .
And the blackfellow dreamt in his savage way
that the child was doing him harm, and that
someone had put a dead-man’s bon© in his food,
and that he would wither up and die.
Next morning, as soon as he could get away,
little Freddy went down to see the wild man,
and —found him asleep, coiled round a little fire.
Now was his chance, now he could touch him.
He crept closer and put out his little hand.
The blackfellow started and awoke. The first thing
he saw was the stare of the blue eyes that had so
haunted him, and the boy had his hand out-
stretched to touch him* He leapt up and com-
menced to rave and spit, Freddy could not move,
he was magnetized by the wild antics of _ the
nigger, perhaps he thought he was doing it to
amuse him. If so no one ever knew, for the next
instant the blackfellow had struck him down with
his nulla and fled.
There were white men and black hunting every-
where thatday forawild-eyed fugitive, and a, mother
crying her heart out over a dead child. The
station blacks brought him in on the third day
and handed him over to the native police, who
had come to the spot.
“ He tried to get away as we were going down
to port,” said the officer, “and wouldn’t stop
when called on, so we had to fire at him.” Most
native offenders used to do this then. It saved
lota of expense and bother.
JERRY.
The Blessing of Esau.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“And he said, ‘Hast thou not reserved a blessing forme?’
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, ‘ Behold, I have
made him thy Lord, and all his brethren have I given to
him for servants ; and with corn and wine have I sus-
tained him ; and what shall Ido now unto thee, my son?’ ”
“ Blessed are the poor, for they shall inherit the King,
dom of Heaven.”
The poor and the lowly are blessed, for they
Have chances of Heaven more rosy and bright
Than the rich, who revel through life’s long day
In the solid substance of earthly delight.
This is a part of the lesson they preach ;
We fools believe, and are glad to miss
All present pleasures, that we may reach
The glamour and glitter of heavenly bliss.
But if, in spite of our chances, we fail
To attain to the standard of heavenly worth-
If we fail in faith, what then will avail
To have suffered one hell in the life upon earth f
Must men be tortured by angry gods,
And have no pleasure on earth as well ?
They live their lives against fearful odds
Who run the risk of a double hell.
All guilt hereafter may be forgiven,
We may find nor fire nor hell to fear;
But they will have had two lives in a heaven,
And we a gratuitous hell down here.
And then, if there be no “ Kingdom ”to reach,
No hell to avoid, no Heaven to gain,
But only a long sweet sleep for each,
We’ll have wasted our lives in useless pain.
At any rate, when you’re rich, to be good
Is not too hard ; and I know this well,
That I’d take riches and chance being food
For the fiery furnace of inmost hell.
Sydney.
J.P.


Drapery*
a
JAEGER
TRADE MARK.
ATTENTION of the Public
is respectfully called to the
fact that on ly goods bearing
the above Trade-Mark are guaranteed by Dr. Jaeger to be
genuine and in accordance with his system.
No round Trade Mark is used by this Company.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
LONDON - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
G-unmakers,
107 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE WA. RUN Gr.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Hot
A.T
w
£3 ATHER
EA.R
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. 6d. & 5s 6cl.
£
m
Ya
3s. 6d. & ss. 6d.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
Gr- S3C. SMITH & SOINT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘l*rice Wartmg,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. 10d.
in stamps.
fATSONS
JSr
It
df
r-
SiK
ON
Sole Aoents—
Allt's Brewing Si Wine Si Spirit Co., Limited,
LADIES I
OLD. YOUNG and MIDDLK AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS wim CRKAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the bear, of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) JOa. and 20s. per box
post free.
Hotel.
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
cl la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding’ Breakfasts,
.Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
Manager;,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A
MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS
3
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
mflerer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ayes these Pills are invaluable'
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
xnd Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecitam’s Co ran
Pans a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d.'(containing 66 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
v.o.
$ Whisky:
DiftMS
o>
VJ-.faV.iHii
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOU; AO 12 NTS
KOK
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
Whisky
DRINK
“AUIiD
SCDTTIE"
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
PRICE ; TWO SHILLINGS,
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage Bd. extra.
Medical.
Vegetable CURE
FOR
*»» NEURASTHENIA.
DD/11/C n ®y living witnesses to be the
! ft wd LJ Only Remedy which can be
taken at Home with' Success.
The treatment STOPS the Desire for Liquor
In from 6 to 24 hours.
C o* Self-Treatinent, sent to any
ll \JiVI C. address free from observation. .
- _ 1 ■ ‘ Full particulars A
Colonial References in onr 4
TYSON SANATORIUM Co.
SCOTT CHAMBERS, 96 PITT-ST,
i
i
i
N
7h
£
c
8
KST
mmm
df
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists. ;
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE-
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSB. By Post Ss. 6d.
&T Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—tii i;-
IMPROVES CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
A.ndL Foster T\T others.
MASUFACrr BED % V. M. /iAPK/SB.
FACTORY: Elizabeth street. iIEDFERN.
Showrooms: Si iuihvkki Sikicki si dxey.
Business Announcements.
A
ass
'8
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s. to 15s. 6»l. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S POBPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold land «S Building Co., Limited,
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
Me Quo id’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
As an illustration :—For a Block, 5 acres, at
) per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
■£i ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, 6th, 6th and 7th years,
.£ll7s. 6d., £2 10s., £3155.. £s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7tb year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the £5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate ; or
WATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &0., should
send for Dr. M. FERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point, out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
druos.
Medical.
CONFIDENCE
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
Ms
Qualifica-
tions,
M. PERRY,
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding-
Varicocole
Tumors anl nil
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
-Practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
nmi to undertake t’ie treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his path ms with the most per-
feet modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
m any part of the nody. He supplies a Gknui.se
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting: hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 t. 0 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN
Sill 1
O'
3
EUREKA
Vi
ELECTRIC BELTtV
* /S ,s. v -i-vjs
£x\ v '/V
A /;
! s*
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM..
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This Muons Electric -Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY' and WEAKNESS*. Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. YVe are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them
selves what MM BBMHB
e represent them to be. Those Inks ivlu
made for the spt cilic purpose of producing: a continuous
mild, soothing current o! electricity through all the weak-
ened pans, restoring them to hcali h and vigorousstrength
even the worst ease permanently clued in three month*.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing lull information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persons how they mat obtain tho>e bc.ta
without paying for them until they have pruned u-ei;i
competent to cure am disease of the Nervous Kyn'i’t
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. vamp
for postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPAN V,
Bo\ inb. 0.P.0.. f


Free Prescriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, i&c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
"VTOTICE.— Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Whisky.
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents; CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone 973.
W. M AMM ATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms:
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
■VTOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EEITEST PAVEUC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLD RE WOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard, Square, SYDKTEY.
[Established over a Quarter op a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—los. 6d. per Day. Walter Sidney (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
<RAckA«ocK>
c* *~cu
K, A, Hcrvey, Agent, 144 llarcuce-st. Sydney.
///
vU
r-
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party : “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
pjg~ Coupon with Every Case.
SB
-Huntington I*llll-
•4£»
Kiiov!cr’ I'unaps
PARKE & LACY CO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&o.| JSeOf &o.
(LIMITED).
187
And
& 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
ICock Breakers.
W«*slli»Kt»ouse Rnglnei.
mm
o,e-
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESTOS— 80 lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
* Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted • with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes,
Double Fire Doors. Double
Ri vetted. Manholes.
Hay-street i"™ l Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
{SHOWROOMS
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
H
awMiicK
3FT. |j£
Co***
