

mz
o
<s,
co
&
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
B. G. WATKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Wining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed P'URE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
yO
o
4
y^
* /
&
■
%
O
o
7
Q
<5
v»
a
&
©
9
-
ts>
o
&
*
tIT A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes m grand medicines have-not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. 1 V YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfokd-ST., London. I-ST' Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
amadous
r
- s' S *- <
J
2
oPj
the
o*s
=%s a
rui
I -'ln!
fllO
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THOR L’ IS ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh (good and Ice Company, i Ltd .
Fish. ! Fish ! Fish !
(~)WING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.—as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
id. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. a, I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely modeiate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
■Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 136 King-st,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.— We shall be pleasi d for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the citv and
suburbs Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game
Pastry, &c.
3t313T. Pateson, Manager.
25 to 33 Harhour-st, Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WALKER’S WHISK
JOHN WALKER, 24=
son\rx>
ALLSOPP’S ALE.
STIIESEI-, SYDKTSY.
J.
Sole
CS. 3E3C O W JSL XC 13.
Agen ts In New 53 on tlx Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Slxuttlewortli.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
Iv
f •
’iimiuiiiiiiimnmffi-i
WITH HANDLES,
O R DIN AR Y STE ER A < lE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also iu Biding.
SHU T 1 U«0»1« UHCWA \
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENOINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Sf
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizon (al Engines of all classes: Undertype Endues: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Macbineg of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators : Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagydntf Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
gightness in Draught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
7357
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for Od. each.
Convertahle to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. MT Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & C. Howara, Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
YoL 13.—N0 J).j
[Saturday, May 6, 1893.


TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
v—✓ ' r •
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
df
'll
ds
ill
%
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
In advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
fok INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. <fec. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D,, F.C.S., <fcc.. Public Analysts.
OR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
f
v.o.
Qtoml
Whisty
i>r<
Oitirunawncw
•. -■ nm
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AO ENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘Price Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
BROIT’S INJECTION.
Hyoienio, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR. S,
Successor Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Cmr MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
RE MEDIE S,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER,
Central Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The most refined of all Perfumes.
Sweet as the Rose itself. Imitated the
world over, hut equalled by none.
ATKINSON'S
EATJ DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the
German kinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinson's.
Of all Dealers.
J. 8c E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
shape bine and yellow label and usual
Trade .Mark—a “ White Hose |®
and address in (all.
MAAHOO I).
health, STREJVG RESTOKEI
O s S 'COBO.
tssi.wce-,i, Ll F t.
The only InfaMhle R emedy for TiEBTITTY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
X*. Rieord* Essence of Life ivstores Health and
Strength to the tiio.it shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Hs, or four quantities in one for 36*. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry d Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, PHtsrop, MEL BO T’RK E
AffentsforN.S. Wales—W. H. Soul&Co., Pitt-st., Sydney,
For Consumption use
/p Jr Sons
fds
Co$t* S
/
f/
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYRTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Drapery.
THE
JAEGER
TRADE MARK.
ATTENTION of the Public
is respectfully called to the
fact that only goods bearing
the above Trade Mark are guaranteed by Dr. Jaeger to be
genuine and in accordance with his system.
No round Trade Mark is used by this Company.
Dr. -Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
LONDON - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE.
m
$
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
> Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Sole Agents for Henry Heath.
f
dsf
dsf
fIENBYHEffnH
TFADE MAR*
Sole Agents 'for Henry Heath.
JsOKT
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis.
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6g\\g6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. These Hats are luxuriously lined with Real
Russia Leather, the aroma of which is delightfully
refreshing to the wearer.
Gr. H. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System/
BY
“PRICE WARUNG.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of KTew SoutH Wales.
-):(~
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Eyeryfacility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
BEST BRANDS OF
Mrs. BZIXiMiIXSTSfI
suitable for Families,
WINES, SPIRITS, &0.,
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
o
BILLIARD TABLE.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Brand.
dsf
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manaokr kor Awraua-T. J. MacWilllam, 297 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
dsf
AO-
sfor
TrtA'f
V “
£
Scale of Advertising
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTEA DISCOUNT of 5
6s. per inch per insertion, nett
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ Tlie LAST OF SIX
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
— by-
EENEST. F AVEUC.
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


Medical.
DbSPEER
Assisted by Dr. BDMSLIE,
M.D., L.P.P.S., L.S.A-, L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
p.O. Box 920.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
nf NS.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
rn the ‘special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive pure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there'is no organic disease, and
nothing hut an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be (he most skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Honrs : 10 lo 11 a.in. ; 3to 4 and
1 to 8 p.CM.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ©NE-HALF of those usually charged, aiuldie
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those tlrousands of*poor hut honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wislres it to ho distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quiokly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in ail cases of NEIWOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many y.ehrg of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return tee victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all eases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
SPIILX^S.
“VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, fee., 55., or 21g. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
I—AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
os., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 87s. Cd.
S.—PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 90s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. and PERMANENT CURB.
Mention this paper when writing.
“ Mea I have Smiled with.”
W E STAY at Br.uton’s,
KHnainou j
wagga:.
3Xra.-ULgli.ton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
ladies’ Tea Hooms.
THE grand central coffee palace
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
on© i^ S fi a( *? e< * H)# already extensive establishment
ronma.M M best appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
Men in ft, • "i 1 also Be a greib boon to Business
with i 'M.f, vici ! u ky> who prefer light refreshment, combined
little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking-
Treasu ry Gardens.
Grated
JIBi.BO.DBNH,
Opposite-Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
SSdSff Ri^ i(1 . en r oe ' # Bs. per week. Single Bed, in-
ment» f r ? akf ~ sfc ’ s ®v Double dir - ~
GrahH Sf Iar K® families,
ud Hotel, Melbourne.
( to, IDs. Special arrange-
A. I*'. BEKEH, Manager, The
ask for
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
fIER MAJESTY the Q XT REN.
Medical.
fflkj
LR.C.S.L.MR.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting spechal attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, ho directed Jais attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted ease,
or
MAKE HO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, CHE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and oven though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
\
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the mast obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vaiii
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr.‘Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfaetory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
shojild they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—O.BO a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m, to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
£2T Address all Communications ;
Dr. J.T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
m
a
tSi
-Ul
bJ
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes', bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receiv©
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 eases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Or. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FEEE.
Shipping.
via
IN 37 DAY
AMERICA
S.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cue avanaoie ror iz months, and Saloon
.Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, ban Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Hnd irOU^1 areS ’ S y dnp y or Auckland to Eng-
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSA GERSES MAR I TIM ES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Governmentoi
France calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE. KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID
V,ooked to KURRACHEE. BOMBAY
MAURIIIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 0000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
trahan and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamera
Ville de
Ciotat
Polynesien
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from ±'2o to £65,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office. 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent. v
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep,
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
iSLJS Kill "scrub Co.’s
DESTRUCTANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Esq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director-General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
se s Maiglbckchei
liljfoflheVall f )
CUSTkV IOHSi
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILETSOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all fpigly class'Perfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE. Berlin.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHED
Oaplll a rlne!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. left
Peliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
n Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarlne—los. Cd., Post Free.
A AITKfX. Sole Agents.
CSO and CS2 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 163 PALMER STREET.
=£4-9,4-60 worth for £l.
See Amusement
Column.


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- eacii .. AS SHOWN, |;5/ eaoh.
dsf
ta?" POST [ KF.ro THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
jno. Bakar, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
nr?
S'
in ™ ii
IE
ipP^aV
ag^ssHa
m
mz
ROYAL HOTEL, RAMDWICK.
A Family Hotel, s' loot and beautifully furnished Situated in
the Last suburb tf Sidney. Terms very moderate.
T. lilfOlW, Proprietor.
V • -V Vi-.
§
Sim& e3T
_ @VING
tH e
Wsrl©
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
f
'"'V
HOME
*(P-
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
re like Sapoiib.-They waste
mem selves to m&ke'l”he world 5
brighter S A POLIO is ttie
Electric lijghh of house-cleaning-
THE OLD RUT
and old methods are not the easiest by far. Many people travel them
because they have not tried the better way. It is a relief from a sort
of slavery to break away from old-fashioned methods and adopt the
labor-saving and strength-sparing inventions of modern times. Get out
of old ruts and into new ways by using a cake of SAPOLIO in your
house-cleaning. J
SOLD BY GROCEES, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
NEWTON & LAMB
Every Style of Household Furniture within
the Means of Everyday Purchasers.
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES.
£8
£lO 10s.
£ll 10 s.
£l6 10s.
£l6 10s.
£2l
OCCASIONAL SUITE, comprising SETTEE and FOUR OCCASIONAL
CH AIRS, upholstered in TAPESTRY and PLUSH.
SUITE, comprising COUCH, LADIES’ and GENT.’S CHAIRS and Six
SMALL CHAIRS, upholstered in TAPESTRY and PLUSH.
OCCASIONAL*SUITE, comprising SETTEE, ONE TUB CHAIR ONE
GOSSIP CHAIR, and TWO SMALL CHAIRS, upholstered in RICH
TAPESTRY or COTA LINE and PLUSH.
SUITE, comprising SETTEE, TWO TUB CHAIRS, TWO OCCASIONAL
CHAIRS, and FOUR SMALL CHAIRS, upholstered in RICH TAPESTRY
or COTALINE and PLUSH. U
OCCASIONAL SUITE, comprising SETTEE, TWO STUFFED-BACK
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, TWO GOSSIP CHAIRS, handsomely CARVED
FRAMES, upholstered in RICH GENOESE VELVET and SILk PLUSH.
Specially Handsome OCCASIONAL SUITE, comprising beautifully CARVED
WALNUT SETTEE, TWO TUB CHAIRS, and TWO STUFFED-BACK
OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, upholstered in RICH TAPESTRY and SILK
PLUSH.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS SYDNEY.
Tlie Bulletin’s
MISSING-WORD COMPETITION.
The THIRD COMPETITION CLOSES JUNE 3. 1893.
ghotograpliy I
BAKER & ROUSE,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Photographic Materials & Optical Lantern Goods
AMATEUR
OUTFITS
FliOM
FREE
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
NO TROUBLE
WHATEVER.
/ ■X.IJ . T
gas
- •_ i* -
•■'vifeif-
'-V-
-SW« a,;
1
.V : JS^>
~•
Si
* -
A.
Q
*r
/
m
}* ] fotogra riiK
CATALOGUES,
lantern
CATALOGUES,
monthly
CIRCULARS,
POST FREE
OTV
APPLICATION.
NOTE THE ADDRESS: 375 George Street,
(DIRECTLY OPPOSITE SYDNEY ARCADE); and at
256 COLLINS STREET
69 RUNDLE STREET
46 QUEEN STREET
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE.
SAY WELL & CO.
depot
FOR
MARVEL
TO B A C C O
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, das Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY,
W Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT TVTA TTTCTtS
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS' Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Illustrated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A, ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Elevator.
Motion Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments /or Earn Hies.
These Hotels contain over 500 A fart-
tnents ami are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete uoith every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
Plum’
ds
the
‘ Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public-
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. Tt never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
(Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10.*. Cxi. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Solo
ARonts
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street,
LES of the CONVICT SYSTEM."


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—Ko.cro.
SATURDAY, MAY 6, 1893.
Price, 6d.
✓ y
n / •
IN EXTREMIS.
DR. MACSYNICATE (to moribund Queensland) : “It’s a good thing you called me in. I shall now proceed to infuse some cheap nigger Mood into your veins, and when we
clap my celebrated Land-Grab Porous Plaster on your chest, you will feed a now man."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Walls.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only);
Per Annum ; ...
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0 126
Quarterly... ... ... ... ... 06 u
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tiin Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
tl year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J< F.
Archibald.
The Editor wilt carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential,
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed,
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS .
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal ;— The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: U. A. Thompson and Co. f 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
la consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.-
added for postage.
No papers unit be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd.
Tj^^xxlZe&ri.
SATURDAY, MAY fi, 1893.
The Dead Tribune.
Last' week John Ballance, Premier of
Maoriland, went to join the dead, leaving
behind him an empty place which it will be
hard to fill, and a noble work still unfinished.
Ballance, Higinbotham, and Grey were
probably the only statesmen of this
generation in Australasia who btiilt up for
tliemselves an absolutely stainless record,
and to all intents and purposes this trio is
mow extinct,- leaving their offices to worse
and weaker men. Two of them are dead,
and the survivor has outlived all ambition
for office, and is never again likely to take
any serious part in the business of Govern-
ment. Of the three, the man who is just
gone was probably the one who could least
be spared. He was a Democrat who never
once showed any sign of faltering in his
faith, a convincing orator, a man of unlimited
courage and resource and gifted witli a tact
which never failed him in t he most difficult
emergencies, a stern Republican, a politician
vvlm loved danger for its own sake, and never
shuffled off difficult problems till the morrow
for the sake of peace and quietness to-day,
the constant friend of the poor, and the con-
sistent enemy of monopoly in every form.
And, unlike Higinbotham, who died at a good
old age, and Grey, who has long passed the
ordinary span of human life, Ballance left
the scene in middle age, at the very beginning
of what promised to bo the most brilliant
career in the history of these lands. He
had a little more than a year of such great-
ness as few men over achieve—a dazzling
period during which he was reverenced by
the poor and lowly, and hated by the rich
and selfish, throughout the length and
breadth of Maoriland. Then he spent nearly
another year in dying ; and towards the end
of that time he flickered up again into
sudden life —and expired.
* » •
John Ballance was no further advanced
in his political theories than many of his
contemporaries ; the difference between him
and them lay in the fact that he actually did
what other men spent their lives in advo-
cating, yet left undone. Other politicians
without number have urged the abolition
of foreign borrowing ; Ballance finally
abolished it, and, during his term of office,
not only was there no more loan-mongering,
but Maorilaud made a beginning in a new
Public Works policy, not with foreign
capital, but out of revenue. Other poli-
ticians—it is impossible to count how many
—have lamented over the ruinous device of
soiling the public estate to supply revenue j
Ballance abolished land - sales and Sub-
stituted a system of perpetual lease with
rents adjusted by periodical valuations. It
has begun to be recognised nowadays that
great earth monopolies are an unmixed
evil, but the only Australasian politician who
ever seriously attempted to suppress the evil
was John Ballance. He introduced and
nearly passed a measure prohibiting the
ownership of more than 2000 acres of land
by any single individual; the Bill was lost in
the Upper House, but if he had lived it
would assuredly have become law at an early
date, for betwixt the senile nominees and
the tireless Premier there was war to the
bitter end, and, beyond a doubt, in this con-
flict between the live statesman and his
moribund enemies the former would have
won. But Death was on the side of the
fossils, and Ballance had no opportunity to
renew the conflict.
# # »
Apparently he had a premonition of his
early death, for he made stupendous efforts
to crowd the work of a lifetime into his brief
span of power. It is miserable to reflect
that neaidy a third part of his great career
was wasted in a struggle with the graven
images of the Upper House, The Maoriland
Councillors were horrified, in the first
months of his Premiership, at the deluge
that had come upon them. Then they set-
tled down to systematically reject every
separate item of the new democratic pro-
gramme, and to annul the policy of the
Assembly. Every Australasian politician
who has attempted a progressive policy
has been brought up, at some time or
other, by the same obstacle, but only one
ever fully overcame the difficulty. Ballance
had to fight the Conservative party in the
Assembly, the Council, and two successive
Governors; and in the end he was everywhere
triumphant. And, whereas other politicians
without number have raved about the
necessity of having Labour as well as Capital
represented in the permanent branch of the
Legislature, and have, like Parkes, straight*
way sent up such ignoble creatures as Johb
Davies in proof of the faith that was not in
them, Ballance demonstrated his sincerity
by sending brainy boilermakers and planters
to disturb the solemn atmosphere of the
Senile Chamber, and introduced practical
Democracy among the apoplectic nominees
for the first time in our history,
• # *
Many years ago Graham Berry left a
trail of frenzy through the length and breadth
of Victoria with his famous policy of “burst-
ing up the big estates ” which were eating
the heart out of the province. He lived for
many years thereafter—in fact, he professes
to live to this day—and the big estates re-
main very much as they always were. Many
other delusive firebrands of the same order
have since then stumped Australasia with
the same war-cry, and nothing has come of
any of them. Ballance raised no war-whoop
such as that on which Berry travelled ; but
he commenced the work in real earnest, and
unless his death undoes what he accomplished,
it is probable that big land-monopolies will, in
but a very few years, be a thing of the past in
Maoriland. His land-tax began the process,
and his heroic policy of buying up estates
which, in the opinion of the Government,
were under valued by the owners for the
purpose of escaping taxation, and cutting
them into small farming areas, pro-
mised to accelerate it materially. And, in
addition to all this, he established a labour-
bureau system which, with other agencies,
practically abolished the unemployed trouble
throughout Maoriland ; he created village
settlements —that social experiment which
the Australians have been languidly dis-
cussing so long to so very little purpose ; he
was a strong Protectionist, and acted up to
his theories ; he encouraged trades-union-
ism ; and he was engaged in formulating a
scheme of female suffrage, and a gigantic
project for the nationalisation of the lands,
mines, and all the big industries of Maori-
land when the end came. His work has been
left for his successors to take up —with what
success, time only can reveal.
* * *
Compared to what John Ballance accom-
plished in little more than two years, the
life-work of other statesmen sinks into in-
significance. Fame travels but slowly,
and this great man died before almost
anyone outside his own country had
begun to recognise his greatness. Yet he
did vastly more than Higinbotham—
though not more than Higinbotham
might have done had he not abandoned
his post and sought refuge in the retirement
of the Bench when his work was little more
than begun ; more than Grey, whose one
ill-starred attempt at running a constitu-
tional Ministry was wrecked by his in-
capacity for detail ; and a thousand times
more for the good of his country than
Parkes, Dibbs, Gillies, Berry, Patterson,
Deakin, Service, Playfobd, Downer,
Griffith, M‘llwraith, and all the race of
modern Parliamentary hacks and office-
seekers combined. Ho was a man of the
people, and rose from being an ironmonger’s
apprentice to bo virtual dictator Of Maori-
land, yet he never boasted of his lowly
origin or of his self-made position. He held
office twice in subordinate positions before
attaining the Premiership, but made no
snecial success ; he was built to be a leader
of men, and as a follower of other men he
was a comparative failure. Also, he had
many strange and contradictory virtues. He
was a total abstainer, a man who never used
tobacco, an agnostic, an individual of rigid
morality—yet he never “travelled on” any of
his fads, or attempted to gain the support of
secularists, teetotallers, social purists, or any
other association of fanatics. The conspicuous
feature in the character of John Ballance
Was that he lived in haste, like a man who
realised that he had much to do and little time
whetein to do it, and who had no leisure to
cadge for support in the byei-ways of poli-
tics- He was never “ converted:” from the
first beginnings of his public career he
was an ardent Democrat, and he remained
so to the end. Instead of advancing with
the tide of public opinion he created public
opinion as he went along. Ho refused a
title, and never even advertised the fact that
he-had refused it. All through his career
John Ballance fought against stupendous
odds. Three-fourths of the press—almost
every newspaper, in fact, that was rich
enough to represent a reasonable amount of
invested capital—was against him. So, in a
great measure, were the churches, which
loathed him for his want of “ religion,” the
financial institutions, the landowners, the
liquor interest, the Upper House, the
Governor, and almost everything else which
represented money, conservatism, or ancient
tradition in any shape. Yet he governed a
heterogeneous party and a Cabinet to match
with such unfailing tact that there was
hardly even a rumour of dissension. And,
finally, in his 54th year, he died compara-
tively poor. His chance came too late ; he
did much, but had his opportunity arrived
a little earlier he might have done incalcul-
ably more. He leaves behind him a headless
Ministry, to which he supplied all the
originality and most of the brains it
possessed. Already there, are rumours of
an unseemly scramble for his vacant office,
and the Democratic party threatens to split
asunder almost before its great leader is in
his grave.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The "Cockatoo" in Politics.
In New South Wales, South Australia, Queens-
land, and Victoria, a special effort is in progress
to boom what is commonly called the “ Country
Party,” as a means for the more effectual
destruction of the Labour element in politics.-
The Country Party is built sometimes on an
unnatural alliance between the squatter and
the “ cockatoo” farmer, but Usually it consists
almost entirely of the latter. It generally pro-
fesses to be more or less democratic, but it
promises, if it ever gets fairly afloat, to be
the most incurably Tory faction in the Austra-
lian legislatures. The cockatooffarmer believes
with all his small and petrified soul in long
hours and low wages, and cheap labour
generally. His great desire, when he
requires assistance, is to find some labourer
hungry and dejected enough to work from
the summer sunrise to the summer sunset
for inferior board and still more inferior lodg-
ing, and—if it can’t be avoided—for a very few
shillings per week, paid irregularly. And at
slack seasons his chief ambition is to wipe the
whole class of bush labourers off the face of the
earth, so that he can have a monopoly at jobs
of fencing and the like on adjacent stations;
Not being able to wipe them out, however,
he undersells them. He cuts wages down, on
one side by working at Chinese rates, and on
the other by paying less than Chinese rates
to his own occasional employes. He has a deep-
rooted abhorrence of unions, of fixed rates of
wages, and of fixed hours of labour, The
Victorian “cockatoos” broke up the shearers’
strike of ’9l by filling the places of the strikers
on the employers’ terms. The Queensland and
New South Wales men bore a hand in the same
good work, and at Deniliquin a handful of the
latter helped to extinguish unionism among the
miners by gaoling the Broken Hill leaders for
the grievous offence of resisting a gross act of
treachery by the silver companies of the Barrier.
The “ cockatoo ” element in Australia comprises
the only class of manual labourers which has
consistently done its utmost to reduce Labour to
a condition of abject slavery. Therefore, the
Country Party, despite its occasional profes-
sions of democratic sentiment, is always an
object of suspicion, and generally a slavish tool
of the National Ass. It has fleeting tendencies
towards Democracy when Capital sits too
heavily on its sycophantic follower, but these
outbreaks are few and far between and exceed-
ingly unreliable. The interests of the class
which forms the back-bone of the party are so
far apart from those of Labour generally that a
fusion between the two is practically impossible.
* ♦
August Levey, trading in Sydney under the
style of J. L. Simon —a plausibly Frenchy name
for a firm professing to deal in cheap lines of
French brandy—was last week fined £3O, with
the alternative of three months’ gaol, for sell-
ing as champagne cognac a poisonous liquid,
of which 25 casks were seized. This beastly
swill was ticketed Is. 9d. per gallon, and was
proved by Government-analyst Hamlet to con-
sist of “ white spirit,” water, and a deleterious
aniline dye. The defendant pleaded guilty,
but urged that he was merely the Sydney
agent of a French firm of consignors, who had
represented the stuff to him ns brandy. The
analyst gave the aniline dye the awful name of
“ dimethylamidoazo-bcnzosulphonic acid,” a
name fragrant of fusel-oil, benzine, and coal-
tar ! No one need ever marvel again at the
speaking breath of the average N.S. W. three-
penny-pub drunkard ! A nice little problem to
calculate would be the retail profits made out
of the delirium tremens produced by a gallon of
the Levy brand. But Levy is only one solitary
scapegoat out of a hundred hardened and con-
stant offenders. Such people on conviction
should not be fined, but sent to gaol as common
felons, and on the doors of their warehouses
should be posted and kept for the whole world
to see official notices of their crimes against
society. When they vend such rot-gut they
sell and spread broadcast through the land
murder, suicide, rape, insanity, physical disease,
and poverty; The law lashes at the triangles
the half-demented wretch guilty of ail act of
public indecency to which he has been prompted
by a dose of Simonian poison. While we con-
tinue to flay people alive, we can find no better
subjects for skinning than the assassin grog-
merchant and the officials who ate too lazy or
too corrupt to watch him day and night.
Now that winter has begun, some Government
provision should be made for those in oitr
capitals who cannot find a roof to cover them
at night. A winter season of sleeping in the
public parks means life-long lung disease ot
rheumatism. In all quarters of the parks men
now lie about at night, with oiily the branches
of a tree or the ledge of a rock to serve as roof.
The London Municipal Council has erected
“ doss-houses ” for such unfortunates, and there
is no reason why some such provision should
not be made for outcasts here. The community
supports hospitals and asylums, and, no doubt,
when wind and rain have consolidated a lung
or filled up a joint, the poor Domain lodger will
be welcome to a ward and a bed in one of these.
But why wait for this ? Why not give him a
shelter now ?
—
With Lord Derby has died the most remark-
able kleptomaniac of the century. As a com-
bination of family pride, good mental ability,
and larcenous instinct, the late Liberal-Unionist
was unique. A staunch supporter of the nohlmm
oblige doctrine, he couldn’t look at a duke’s
dinner-table without “shaking” any portable
article that came handy. Whilst preparing a
“ characteristic, common-sense,” speech on the
Eastern Question he would still find time to
filch his wife’s second set of false teeth and
hide them in one of his slippers. A conspiracy
of aristocratic silence regarding the miserable
disease of this noble lord has shrouded its early
career in mystery, and there is no authentic
information as to when he first stole a silver
fork, or picked a penny from a blind man’s hat,
Probably his kleptomania was in its infancy
when he sat in the House of Commons, Of
recent years he couldn’t have refrained from
abducting the mace. He had lost, ’tis said, all
power to keep his fingers from going astray,
and the gloomy conviction that he was an irre-
mediable. thief clouded his common-sense until
he ceased to be commonly sensible. Now that
Lord Derby is dead, perhaps medical science
will endeavour to turn his strange case to useful
account by hunting up particulars as to the
increase or decrease of his Unlawful desires
under certain given conditions, He mustn’t
be wasted. The world would fain know whether
sea air stimulated Derby’s greed for forks and
spoons, or a rustic life gave him temporary
strength to turn away from any unconsidered
shovel that he might see lying about. Or did
he always draw the line at bulky goods of small
value ? Stories of his brain - complaint—an
unamiable weakness, and uncommonly like
avarice run mad—are flooding the London
weekly press, no doubt; but no story told' of
Lord Derby can be as contemptibly humorous
as the snobbery which pretended to discuss his
chai'acter, and yet glossed over its one striking
feature. The kleptomaniac was spared, not for
the sake of his public services (such as they
were), but for the sake of his title. Would an
eloquent Labour member of Parliament, would
a Bhadlaugii, be taken seriously and have his
radical public utterances quoted with respect in
the face of his pitiful pocketing of things that
didn’t belong to him ? Answer us that, you
“great” journals? Lord Derby was not a
benefactor of his country—he was merely a well-
trained politician possessed of no decided views
about anything except “property.” When he
opposed Jingoism he was, above all things,
anxious about his property. In deprecating
“strikes,” he was sniffing the possibility of
riots and thinking about his property. He was
the calm, passionless apostle of property, and
Great Britain’s most privileged petty larcenist.
Imitations.
A chew-ing (in Sydney) the cud of poetic reflection as a
cow chews its cud.
{After Walt Whitman )
What is the soul of the city?
Lower George-street is the most beautiful street
of all streets that you only must snilf at to feel at
the soul of.
In Lower George-street you meet with the shops
of the odours that men who know nothing call,
ignorantly, shops that smell Chinaman-wise, as it
to be Chinaman-wise were a blot on the earth, or
a seam on the soul of the-city.
In Lower George-street a man who walks there
with his eyes open learns that the grace of the
Chinaman’s fragrances never was equalled yet by
the fragrances of any tea-shops, or rickety made
furniture shops, or shops where photographs are
enlarged and discoloured in a fashion peculiar to
China.
The man who walks there with his eyes shut
sees nothing.
The man who walks there and is deaf, and whose
ears are plugged up, hears nothing.
The man who walks there, and who is badly
atHioted with influenza, or is badly afflicted with
a bad cold in his head, or who has no nose, smells
nothing.
I walk there with my eyes open, with mine ears
to hear, without cold in my head, or influenza, and
with a nose. ,
And I see, and I hear, and I smell strange and
manifold and soul-inspiriting sights, beautiful and
un-Australian words, many ending in “ee, fra-
grances that even the man who has influenza, or
who has no nose, might be wondered at for not
smelling. . ■
All ye who hear and ye who don’t hear read tins
and know lam a Soul, and the only Soul who
sees rightly and knows how to put into verse in
Beautiful and The Natural, and the uncommon
things of Lower George street which the busse.
run down through at the end of the city to go to
Dawes Point or Millers. ,
I am the only Whitman, i.c. , poet and cud-
chower.
M.L.M.


“ My glass is small, but 1 drink out of my
glass.”—French.
A Richmond River volunteer, who
attended two encampments at Middle Harbour,
has written to a Sydney publisher to ascertain the
cost of a volume of “ Military Fxperii nees.’*
Sydney Telegraph on tho Queensland Labour,
party :
In Queensland, however, raw anarchy was retained as
the party’s leading principle. “ Labour ” came into the
political arena a; a party of destrucli >n, pure and simple.
O ie of its first aid mist cherished objects was to \ indi-
cate I Ik. po icy of “ trailing (Ireslicks” through the length
~nd breadth of the bid, by which it was sought to “ re-
construct society ” during tho strike. This vindication
was to he accomplished by compelling the law to relax its
--rip on those who were convicted of criminal offences in
connection with the lirestick crusade, to he followed by
legislation giving facilities for the perpetration of such
offences in the future.
The Telegraph is hereby invited to remember
(1) that there was no more evidence, of any
unionist having “ trailed firesticks ” in Queens-
land than there was of the Telegraph editor
having committed arson in Sydney, and (2) that
the amount of fire damage done during the
strike year was no greater than in other
years when the only disturbing influences
were the dry grass, the blazing sky, and
the customary chapter of accidents. In
those days, the customary paragraph about
, Queensland affairs used to read something like
This: “The grass is on fire at station.
Mr. reported to the police that he saw
four men on the road between Cow Flat and
Boggs’ Creek. It is earnestly hoped that the
; miscreants will soon be captured and visited
\with condign punishment.” And yet, so far as
: any definite proof was concerned, there was
; more incendiarism in those times in the Tele-
• graph editor’s own coal-scuttle than there was
■in all the strikers’camps throughout Queens-
i laud.
England has now 9000 barristers, 220 of
whom are Q.C. The Devil will soon have to
, extend his notation.
A Clarence River poet, who desires that
!bis work shall be racy of the soil, has taken to
eating sida retusa, Paddy’s lucerne, and the leaves
of the wattle, being a believer that the food is the
, man.
Rev. Phillip Moses, Camden (N.S. W.),
will resign his pastorate and stand for Parliament
at next general election.—
What’s in a name ! See Moses quit
The pulpit, pew, and steeple,
That he may have a chance to sit
Among the Chosen People.
The S.A. Government is fostering the
I kangaroo industry by proclaiming an area wherein
dthe life of that marsupial is protected for three
-years. Kangaroo furs are becoming fashionable
in Europe. Australians will yet see the day of
(big “ kangaroo-farms.”
The value of the new German bullet-proof
".uniform is discounted by the fact that, though
the cloth remains impenetrable, a soldier hit by a
-fball would be laid out senseless by the impact.
Another drawback is that the head, legs, and
; arms must remain unprotected. Ned Kelly
■iboiiler-plated his head, but was laid low and cap-
ttuned(through a wound in his undefended leg.
'The (bold Bishop Julius, when he went up
ito lay tthe last stone of the spire of Christchurch
tCathedral (M.L.), was accompanied aloft by a
' workman tin a bucket. Three-fourths of the way
i up, the hoisting machinery stopped. The Bishop
- said he .wasnit afraid, but all the same betrayed
i considerable anxiety, and had just begun a fervent
I prayer when (the rope started again. The stone
vwas placed.and they returned to earth, where the
> stoppage vwas explained. An amateur photo-
i graplier, .anxious, to snap a picture of a bishop
r going .Wavenwards, had tipped the man at the
; gear to scqpljoisting.
.Lumley Kill,,a South Brisbane candidate,
i'illustrates.some,of, the contrasts of a politician’s
i'life. The only, lesson his career teaches
iis that, a man, to be .publicly a great success or a
i.noble failure, must,have some settled opinions to
.start,with. Hill had none. Originally a squatter,
Ihe sold out and bqug,ht, .house-property in Bris-
: bane, and,all he had argued against as a squatter
Hie now,argued for as a city man. Everything he
■ any time argued,against he, at some other time,
■ argued fur, and has somersaulted over the Queens
bland puliticabfiekh the friend and foe alternately
' ■of everybody and everything. One good thing,
l however, he did for Queensland. He, by incisive
; and,derisive personalities, glrpye .Angus Mackay,
i then,a membec for South Brisbane; into N.S.W.,
' wherehe now lectures to,a distressed public on
1 blades fiff grass and. ears.of corn ?p)d the akin and
• cyesiOif ithc philoprogenitive potato.
r Desur (Bulletin, — You. say it is easy for
•• N.S.W. .country .police, of long, service to obtain
|ttransferMto,civilisation. For example, Senior-
constable iSohwalker, Mount Brown police, has
i 1 upwards of $7 years! service in the S.W. police
(Gdistric-t; Sqrgt. (Robinsqn , has’ 17 years’service,
v,and was; I beliqve, lately refused transfer from
i 1 the fleeting joys, of the Barrier to the metropolitan
d afterlong and continuous ill-health
it he- cannot succeed ; (3ergt., 'Campbell, Silverton
jt-police,„ has,aver2o years!.service. These men are
.rail troopers, and have attained to certain promo*
ttioq; but the .footfConstable, never rises over first-
-1 class, and is no better off regarding chance of
1 exchange. !In the,whole;S.\W. district there is but
“one exception to-,the Inability of, the foot-police to
.'attain even .senior-constable&hjp— viz., Sergt.
'(Goniber, _ clerk - .in t(io superintendent’s office at
li'Denijiquin, who .has idope ,n,o streetjduty for 18
v years. (’The chief escape from bush police service
'I 1 *! through tho .-graveyard and by. resignation.—
iiExperience. •’ •* ■’
uGenujim business,offer, which lately reached
(' the editorof Adelaide Advertiser i—
. Budapest, date of thq post, 1.892.
(Gentleman,— We are authorized ,tp inform y'oUr Lord-
'snip, that the “Budapest! uewzgtkbzl aajtoiradii ”. (Ih'ter-
| national newspapers office at Budapest :) which will’ be
rounded the first. January 1893—will send yoti—from
Hungary or concerning aiiptfiei;, country—jnfprmatf&'ns
ana other articles of actual!tysp-in English—(hpugh’ppst
or "he, if this office was favoured by your Lofephip.with •
a Stalls exemplar of your esteemed paper Mid, If the
employed informations or articles would not remain with-
out honorary. The “Budapest! newzetkozi sajtoirada ”
"i render you great service, for—with your consent—it
wnl lie the steady and conscientious representant of your
journal here in Budapest, would act in its interest and
ca ’! e its commissions.
The acceptance of the above proposal will be very
■advantageous for your Lordship, because it would cost
ipond *°t SS tlWn a * aave 'h n l? re P orter or a steady corres-
The collaborators of the “ Budapest! newzetkdsi
sajtoirada” will be composed chiefly by journalists,
‘authors and other literary men.
'Y e Hike the liberty of troubling your Lordship by
asking your est. answer by next post in order that we can
procure early the numberof collaborators.—Yours respect
fully f or the ,
“Newzetkosi Kozoetito vallabat”
Julius Steiner.
Buzzle for newspaper editors ;—ls it better to
have a foreign correspondent who only knows
P'geon-English, or an English correspondent in a
torogu town who only knows pigeon-“foreign?”
A Globe-Trotter on Paraguay.
80, you have some people in Australia mad
enough to try and form a communistic colony in
laraguay—a ‘New Australia,’ eh?” said a
“wn i eut<) ' nG vo ' < ? e to a Bulletin man.
Veil, they will regret it, and soon want to come
back again.
41 JJ ave y°u been in Paraguay? ”
Yes. I was over much of it as late as ’9l,
when 1 visited tho German colonies of San Ber-
nardino and Forsterrhode. Those German colonists
would have been only too glad to got back to
Gei many, but they bad no money and could not
getaway.”
I lie speaker was Mr. Haag, a German gentle-
man of means who has travelled much over the
world, and could have conducted a conversation
in any one of half-a-dozen languages. Less than
eight months ago he knew no English ; now ho
speaks it masterfully, and is justly proud of his latest
lingual achievement. His personal opinions about
1 araguay and New Australia are here summarised.
I he “New Australia” country, he remarked,
is between Asuncion, the capital of Paraguay,
and Villa Rica, which two towns are joined by a
railway owned by an English company. Erom
Asuncion to Villa Rica is—or was in ’91 —eight
hours by train. Communication to Asuncion
from the seaports of either Buenos Ayres (Argen-
tina) or Monte Video (Uruguay), both on the
mouth of the Rio de la Plata, is by steamboat,
along what is practically one river, with three
distinct names—La Plata, Parana and Paraguay.
I he journey is something over ICOO miles. The
voyage from Asuncion to Buenos Ayres takes
about Gi days; that to Asuncion occupies a little
longer, sometimes, when the down current is
very strong, as long as eight or nine days.
In Jl, it was the intention of an English
syndicate to build a railway from the coast of
Brazil to Asuncion, to be eventually extended to
Piropo.
The climate of Paraguay is not con-idered to bo
too healthy for Europeans. Eevers are prevalent
there —not deadly fevers, but very inconvenient
ones The old-time Queensland acquaintance,
fever- n-ager, ’ is well known. The summers are
very warm, and Europeans complain of “ blood-
thinning’ as a result of a lengthened residence
there. But, au contraire, it is considered a good
climate for consumptives. The Buenos Ayres
doctors were, in ’9l, fond of sending up such
patients to Paraguay.
I he German colony of Eorsterrhode, some seven
years established, is North of the proposed “New
Australia,” and is about three days’journey from
Asuncion. The colonists there cultivate maize,
bananas, and other semi-tropical products. Efforts
were made to plant coffee, but periodical frosts
killed the crops, and the industry was abandoned
as unsuitable to the region. The timber trade
has also proved a failure, because of the long dis-
tance to Buenos Ayres, the nearest port of ship-
ment for an export market. Otherwise, the forest
resources are magnificent, the timbers being hard,
fine, and widely useful. The principal exports
from Paraguay to Buenos Ayres seemed to Mr.
Haag to be oranges and, secondarily, yerba mate
or Paraguay tea. Dictator Franeia (1814-’4O)
compelled all the inhabitants to plant and culti-
vate orangeries, and Presidents Lopez I. and
Lopez 11, continued that regulation. In all parts
of Asuncion arc to be seen the most splendid
oranges that the world produces.
“I have travelled,’’said Mr. Haag, “in Argen-
tina, Uruguay, Ecuador, Bolivia, Brazil, the
Azores, the West Indies, and many other places
where oranges are cultivated, but I have never
seen any to equal those produced at Asuncion,
Now, there may be a chance for a big industry in
oranges in Paraguay, a gigantic move in marma-
lade manufacture, or something of that sort, but
it lias not been started yet.”
The yerba mate is a kind of holly, the leaves of
which are dried, roasted, and powdered, after
which an infusion like tea is made, and sucked,
while boiling hot, through a silver or other tube.
It is the hospitality commonly proffered to tra-
vellers by every Paraguayan housewife—the Para-
guayan method, in fact, of “ slinging the billy ”
for the passing guest.
The country on the right bank of the Paraguay
river is uninhabited by white men, if the penal
settlement of Las Hayes be excepted. It is savage
territory and comparatively unknown. There
have been, and probably still are, periodical ex-
peditions of exploration thereinto, but these are
highly dangerous, and, so far, have not been pro-
ductive of much utilitarian result. There are wild
animals in the interior of Paraguay, the puma-
known locally as “ the silver lion ’—a species of
tiger, poisonous serpents, and snakes of the
anaconda kind,
“ New Australia ” is on the Tibicuari river, a
tributary of the Paraguay. Its soil is undoubtedly
very rich, but the colony is not a good enterprise.
The poor people going there will lose whatever
they have, and it is impossible to make fortunes,
locally. The so-called roads in Paraguay are very
bad ; in fact, they have yet to be made. The in-
habitants there are living principally on maize,
bananas, oranges and mate. Beef and mutton —
the main standby of an Australian diet—are scarce
articles of food in Paraguay. There arc two poli-
tical parties among what are regarded as natives,
and both of these parties exclude Europeans from
their fraternities. Dictator Franeia did not even
permit strangers to settle on tho land in his day,
and Lopez I. followed the same political line of
exclusion, though it would seem that things are
better now in this respect.
“It is not good counsel to toll any man to go to
Paraguay as a colonist,” finally said Mr. Haag,
“because there arc many scores of better chances
available. The Government there is not stable.
Why, when I was in Asuncion, just before
leaving, there was an attempted revolution.
True, it was only a little one, and was soon sup-
pressed. But though this sort of thing is a
common occurrence there—a mere incident of
the day—it strikes a visitor as very objectionable.
Then, there is no money—except paper. There is
practically no gold nor silver in circulation. In
’9l, a German mark, or an English shilling, was
nominally worth pisos. Well, I changed in
Argentina 100 pisos in gold for 455 pesos in paper;
but in Paraguay I got 620 pesos in paper
for ~'lOO pesos in gold ! It is a fact that
the paper-money of Argentina—and you know
how rotten that Republic is considered —is at a
premium in Paraguay ! Another reason against
settlement in Paraguay is, as I have already said,
•that there is absolutely no market for the natural
products of the country. This breeds a lazy
population, and, let me tell you, there are four or
five women to every man in Paraguay, which has
never yet got over the devastating war of ’GS-’7O.
I hear that the ‘ New Australia ’ colony is going
to take over a lot of single women—‘coals to
Newcastle !’ I pity their luck when they get
i there. Nor can the men be trusted to stick to
their female comrades when the lazy matrimonial
chances to be found out there are considered.
Lastly, there is no security of lAnd-tennre in
Paraguay. I don’t exactly understand what sort
of land-titles are in vogue there, but the system
; is ,yery confused, and rights of occupation are
extremely insecure. I heard of several individual
cases of great hardship. One notable instance
was that of a man who had paid good gold for his
land, cultivated it for some years, and got it into
a promising condition, when a very old man came
forward and claimed that the land was his, and
he proved his right to it, too, under some old
occupancy tenure of the time of Dictator Franeia.
As a farewell word, I may say that I did not meet
one solitary settler in Paraguay who was satisfied
with its prospects. The people simply stayed on
there because they hadn’t money sufficient even to
take them away.”
The Risks of Capital.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
These many years the papers I have read with
rapt attention,
Seeking items fir a book I meditate —
Should you meet the facts I ask for, you’ll oblige
me if you’ll mention
Both the title of the journal and its date.
I have learnt, with awe and wonder, that the
cynic Fates, in giving
Man the burden and the weariness of breath,
Have imposed upon the multitude the privilege of
living,
But by constantly and boldly courting Death.
All the daily papers tell me, with an awful itera-
tion,
Of the workers, men and women, how they die,
At the forge and in the factory, in the mine, and
excavation,
Where the sight of Death has ceased to terrify.'
And I know the blood of toilers in a Hood is ever
flowing,
How the dynamite and noxious gases kill,
How the pallid girls, in thousands, with enfeebled
gait are going
To the graveyard from the workroom and the
mill.
Now, I seek reports authentic of a few ill-starred
directors
Who were crushed beneatli a heavy fall of stone,
Or who come from lower levels like a dripping
band of spectres,
With the poison working in their blood and
bone.
Are these stories of scrip-holders who were blinded
at their toil, or
Who have fought the black-flood waters down
below,
Who’ve gone Hell-ward ’neath the drift-sand, or
gone Heaven-ward'with the boiler —
Fellow-pictures to the horrors that I know ?
And the journals never tell me that a plucky
speculator,
In endeavouring to save another’s life,
Last night was blown to atoms in the Northern
Indicator —
The deceased leaves several children and a wife;
All in vain I’ve sought description of ship-owners’
loathsome quarters,
Of the storms and stress the merchant-shipper
braves,
Of the firm adrift and dying on the mocking waste
of waters,
Or of bankers snatched to glory by the waves.
Are there tear-compelling legends of the influential
masters
In the grip of fell diseases that are bred
In their dens and in their foundries, or involved
in dire disasters
When the coal pits claim their offering of dead ?
In apportioning the profits and risks, alas! they
measure
Mere investors’ risks ’gainst Labour’s blood and
breath,
Give to Capital the comforts, and the riches, and
the leisure,
Whilst the worker gets “ a living ” —or a death !
Melb.
EDWARD DYSON.
In the underground recesses of the N.S. W.
Colonial Secretary's office are stacked heaps of
early Australian papers, etc. For many of these,
the Governments of Parkes gave extraordinary
prices. Some of the prints and documents are of
great historic value; the majority, however, are
mere waste paper. Several records, for which
fancy prices were paid, are crumbling to dust.
A London paper recently burst forth with
another instance of the Duke 1 of York’s kindly
consideration, &c., in finding a messenger’s billet
for a young sailor who had some''fingers blown off.
Readers were incited to worship the Duke for his
goodness in telling somebody to write to somebody
else and ask him to put the maimed seaman some-
where, doncherknow. This was funny. But it
was funnier when the rag discovered that one of
the Duke’s flunkeys had done, the noble deed all by
himself, without any prompting from his “ royal
master.”
The negroes of the U.S. contribute barely
11 per cent, of the Republic's population, hut
furnish 37 ter cent, of the murderers. A large
majority of the latter are educated persons ; and
the illiterate constitute 13 per cent, in the East
and 20 per cent, in the West. Nor is whisky the
cause of most of the trouble. Of the murderers,
1282 were total abstainers and 1207 drunkards —
on which figures the teetotaller makes a very bad
showing indeed. Most of the murderers were in
perfect physical health, hut four fifths had no
trade, and one-fifth were idle and out of employ-
ment at the time they committed the crime for
which they are suffering imprisonment. Illness
and lack of occupation, therefore, would seem to
have an even worse influence than illiteracy or
drunkenness.
“ The suppression of capital punishment
is part of a problem which is essentially biological,
or rather sociological. Positive study of penal
matters shows that a priori calculation of deter-
rents is always wrong; and that, for instance,
there was more sheep-stealing When men were
hanged for it by dozens than to-day when it is
lightly punished. In the same way, when murder
docs not increase in the ratio where among non-
capital acts, we are faced by the consideration
that we may safely abandon an odiously brutal
and brutalising practice, which clearly demoralises
and degrades men’s sensibilities. . . Capital
punishment practically means the hiring of execu-
tioners to perform an act that is in itself regarded
with loathing by all civilised citizens, so much
so that the hangman’s office is always re-
garded as putting him beyond the pale of ordinary
communion. In carrying out the Judge’s sen-
tence he ought to rank as a public servant equally
reputable with the Judge; but he does not; and
when it was lately proposed in Parliament to
control his walk and conversation, it came out
that no official would consent to do it. Tho
reason is simply that his function is felt to be
hateful. And yet the public who loathe it, and
who would individually recoil with horror from
its performance, continue through their representa-
tives to employ him.”— J. M. Robertson, in
Modern Humanists.”
CORRESPONDENCE
Nu notice will he taken of^commumentions which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ J T.”: There are quite enough commonplace
arguments valid against the “ New Australia” movement
without inventing the tall theory that Paraguay Lane
dreams of conquering a part or the whole of South
America by the aid of “a small, detc.mined body of men,
well-armed, with the Anglo-Saxon viiility in the fight.”
. ...“A.O.”: “ Barracouta,” Hobartonian. “Mutton-
bird,” LauncestonianOnlooker” (Thurs. Island);
Details not of all-round interest “ Ishmael ” : Alto-
gether too solemnly inapplicable to the present situation.
“N.”: Laughing jackasses are unknown in West
Australia, anyhow.... “ P. D. Wyburn ” : Not seen your
sketch .., “ Awe-struck ” : The unforgiveableness of the
sin of London’s Mayor, in proposing together the toast of
“The Pope and the Queen ” was that he made one drink
of a ceremony which should have spread o\ er two —
cheated each guest of a “snifter,” in fact....“ Paid
boy”: Trumpery “Gives”: (1) We repeat—“first
catch your mob.” Gall a public meeting and start the
sutracriptions for your “mob journal, mob-edited.” Every
man thinks no man a born editor but himself. (2) Not,
as you say, “when men begin to realise,” &c. ; but
“when a majority of men have fully realised ” all you
hope for. (3) “ Right-thinking men . . . endued with
the grace of common philanthropy”- needhs in hay-
stacks! “Wholesome mental and physical r< creation” —
a cant phrase bounded by lach man’s horizon of capacity
of idia. (4) You do mean a labour-bureau. (5) You
confound contributions with editorship. The editor is
ruler of the waves of correspondence, surely. (6) Suppose
you leave off supposing “ Toby Twist ” : Obviously
inspired by Victor Daley’s “Journalist’s Funeral.”..
“ M.N," (Toowong, Q.): There is a fine yaw in a Muse that
rhymes “Wragge” with “hud” and “South” with
“out,” to say nothing of “Richardson” with “good-
will.”... .“P.L.I.X.” (Bundaberg, Q.); Received
“ W.S.” : To hand . .“C.H.W.” : Pat mistook a frog
for a snake—he didn’t half “have ’em.” “Sub-
scriber”: Will enquire,...“ The Pauper”: Have para-
graphed one ; if other not usable, will return ..
“ L.S.D.” : The basket has got it safely, thank you...
“S.”: “Jim Garbett’s Colt” could have been told better
in prose, or in less faulty verse... “Ajax”: In part",
improbable and commonplace ; in others, leaky with ui -
explained side-possibilities “ D.” : Mean incidei t
meanly told “ Warrane ” : Your tragedy spoils the
story, both as a story and as a love-luxury . “ Tom
Gayndah”: As tanghd as a bankruptcy affidavit....
“ Scotia ” (Hobart); Commonplace, save where you say
that Mrs. Smith was “ nee Mrs. Robinson ! ”
“Bartja” (Sydney); In other words, the thing can’t pos-
sibly happen, but, if it should happen, you want to know
what to do about it. Is it a conundrum, or what?....
“Polype”: “Bust Phqtos.” is a two-act comedy, with
both acts left out, and the theatre closed, and the author
not yet born ... “Barnabas ” : A gruesome tale of tombs,
ghosts, trodden slush, groans, thirst, putrefying flesh, (he
bones of dead men, and horrors thick and slab... “ VV.” :
The Bulletin made the same suggestion in a leading
article at the time of the Barrier strike. Still, it will bear
repetition.... “ Verily ” (Walgett) ; Thanks.... “ Idnob
Notrem ”: To speak in your own dialect, the blessed
pome is “chucked.” Clever in a way, but see the example
it would set to slangy people who aren’t clever.... “ Paul
Hell” : The small, bad boy who was drowned while bath-
ing is declined. We have always asserted that it is the
small, good boy w r ho gets drowned, and we stick to it...
“ Elaev” : You can’t paint the bush editor. Plainly, you
haven’t been there “C.M.”: There is no demand fir
the “nameless grave” this week. Also, your metie
tends to cause a breach of the peace.... “L.L.” (Gunne-
dah): The fact that you want to fly is a purely personal
matter. We don’t object to you flying, so long as you
don’t fly in this paper.... “ One of than ” We decline to
print a two-column account of a cricket-match played 23
years ago “J.R.” (Woollahra); Will condense
“ Torralilla ” : Of no special interest ..“J.W.W.”
(Boorhaman): You begin by telling Queensland to “aw'ake”
and “ arise.” That settles your business in one act
“ Omega” (Narrabri, N.S.W.): “ 275 per cent, under the
market price,” means that a storekeeper would have to
pay a customer £175 to take away £100 worth of goods
given gratis “Yarrum”: Thanks “Craig Ellachie”:
The mainspring of your muse has broken “ Darnet ”
(Tas.): The public would never stand the story of the
good doctor.. . “ H. B. Payne”: Will use “Anti-
Cant” (Dandenong): Thanks.....“ Guido” (Ballarat);
The bard who breaks forth in 31 long verses is always
rejected. Moreover, there isn’t one new idea or one
decent old idea in all the 248 lines.... “ D.W.” : The fact
that the “ blessed saints ” didn’t give any material help
to a drunken Irishman who wanted to find a buyer for a
bit of land, is too eminently probable to be worth com-
ment. “John Smith” tGrafton); Pappy story of the
over-boiled infants’ food variety “ Zoilus ” : The
“attitudeof theGhurch towards the poor” isn’t “a sign
of the times.” The Church has maintained that same
altitude for 15 centuries - only you never noticed it before
“A Traveller”; Yes “ The Gravedigger”: (Tale
of the gravedigger and the washerwoman is hardly goqd
enough. The material doesn’t lend itself to sentiment. ...
“Constant Reader” (Thargo): Yes, it is square....
“ B.O.B.” : One trivial ; the other jumps on a man .who’s
down.. . “ A.O.” : Abolish alternative fines and imprison-
ment, and put every citizen on the same footing....
“ A.B.” : Why shouldn’t an M.P. patronise a cheap-jaak,
or a racecourse inagsman, if he likes to?....“ H.C.”
(Barcaldine, Q.): You read the Western
Champion if you want Bulletin matter in the original.,..
“ F.D.” (Barcaldine, Q.); {I) Thanks. (2) No volumes
published yet by the writers named . “Bankrupt”
(Vic.): You refer us-for a character, as it were—to the
wrong sort of person.. ..“Bushman”: You could
hardly find evi n the ghost of a razor in the Cape York
Peninsula.... “ E.A.K.” (M. Park) ; Coals to Newcastle ;
an old item “Oonoblas”; Good verse—will print on
your assurance of its originality..H.R.” (Little River,
Nio.): Merely a drunken incident, narrated in Dutch-
Irish, with a North-o’-Tweed frenzy ... “ Billee Khan ” :
(1) Thanks. (2) Numbers of good compositors are utterly
unemployed in Sydney.... “ L.C.” ; There are three Finks
in Melbourne—the barrister, the solicitor, and the
millionaire that was .“Busted Miner ” (Charters Towers,
N.Q.) : We saw it. The C.T. Herald probably objects to
the “gridiron land-grab map” because it and its mates
play with a little “ gridiron ” of their own, as you miners
know to your cost “A. W. Markby ” : The only ques-
tion is ; “ Does the German woman who has taken a con-
tract to break stones at Newcastle claim full wages?” If
she does, the rest is her business, nobody else’s . “ E. J.
Mo.” : After all, Hancock was not so much out about the
banks’6 x 8 ”; Weak joke... “Justin C. MacCartie”
(E. Melb.): You merely hedge on the opinions given in
your book, when you say that your praise of Victoria was
“qualified and comparative only.” You still think that
“ Victoria is, for a democratic country, very fairly
honest.” Chut! It is most deplorably honest—for a
syndicate - disembowelled, boom - damned, capitalist-
choked, fat-man-cursed country. The wonder is that the
plundered and driven masses haven’t chewed up all the
Governments, seriatim “ H.M.M.”(Momalong): Prosy
drivel. The idea of flogging an editor to make a play run
is not original, and you muff itT^V 1 Arthur R.” (St.
Hilda, Vic.): A good, mixed plot, hut long-winded, and
spoilt with slang misunderstandings ... “ E. Eh. L.” : “ A
Rum Romance ” iseither a spurt of dark genius or a flash
of unreined madness. Phantasmagoria for choice
“The Pauper ” (Vic.): “ Ewe ” st(5fy lame.


Financial depression is killing the trade in
imported spirits, but as this is leading to an in-
creased consumption of the Australian Boar’s
Head Australian Wines —all the produce of this
colony—the cloud has a silver lining. From Is. a
bottle. Look for Innes k Uo.'s name.
ds
Edi nburgh.
The Old Blend
WMs©
■wmfl> H “ 0E
OIBICT D pu rv T E, L M EUUOVJ
* lWA,s jrt'uMP Scotch hmt
of tKe
(eLI'A^
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
3rd May, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
A sadly uncultured story is told of an Aus-
tralian celebrity who recently arose Sir Somebody
in London. He was bidden to a dinner-party in
tiie halls of titled greatness at eight sharp,
but eight sharp arrived and he didn’t. Half-
an-hour passed and still he failed to heave
in sight. At last the exasperated hostess
led the way to the spoilt dinner without
him. But an hour afterwards, to everyone’s
amaze, the Antipodean curiosity turned up ! It
seemed the reason why his chariot had tarried was
that he had once been invited to a ball for 10
o’clock at the same house, and, arriving punctually,
was faced by a politely-astonished host and
hostess only, who laboriously entertained him for
two solid, dragging hours alone in an ocean of
beeswax until the gay throng began to fashionably
arrive towards midnight. Putting two and two
together, the benighted Australian came to the
conclusion that the correct London way is to be
always two hours late, and unfortunately put his
theory into practice at a dinner-party. These are
the things which help English people to believe
that all Australians are black 1
If lady-lawyers do arise in N.S. Wales, in terms
of the permission just given by the popular branch
of the Legislature, it seems a pity that a well-
known Judge, renowned fur his gallantries, no
longer adorns the bench—for, if he did, a lady
defender would spell acquittal every time. In a
circuit town this ornament admired a local fair,
and asked her to meet him by moonlight alone in
the grove at the end of the vale. The damsel
blnshingly promised, and when, in the gentle
gloaming, the Judge arrived at the tryst, there,
sentimentally enough, was a female figure seated
demurely on a rock. The next thing his Honor
knew was that the air was full of meteors. “She”
had sent her little brother attired in feminine
draperies.
Book-learning as dispensed at Sydney Univer
sity runs to figures, and when you reflect upon
how many B. A.’s and M. A.’s there are rouse-
abouting in the back-blooks, or advertising for
press-work (a sign of weakness in itself—for your
budding journalist always hawks his own wares),
the bill of University costs looks very long indeed.
The 70 people who took degrees in 1890 cost the
State £5BO apiece!
And here, no doubt, is part of the result:—
fPUTOR, with good ref., of exp., and a 8.A., can
coach for University, teach piano, will give 3
hours’ teaching for board and residence. Gov. In-
stitute, 108 Bathurst-st.
rpUTOR, two years’ ref., an M.A., can teach music,
no objection to any country place, can coach for
University successfully. Gov. Institute, 108 Bathurst-
street.
Being learned is a poor way of getting a living.
The B.A. evidently cannot pay for board and
residence. The M. A. has no objection to being
planted where the foot of man seldom treads so
long as he gets an “appointment.” Why don’t
men learn to cook artistically instead of stuffing
themselves with “informations”? Even a good
Chinese cook can command 30s. a week and his
board and lodging.
If N.S.W. Legislative Council doesn’t demur to
the Assembly’s chivalrous recognition of women’s
right to be admitted to the law-roll, the day is
near when Portia will be seen tearing about
Chancery Square with her wig on one side and
her gabardine grabbed in the front—the picture
presented by the he-lawyer rushing from case to
case or simply running wild in public to give a
business-like aspect to an otherwise unemployed
head of horse-hair. But it strikes me that if Portia
really does come to pass we shall have to institute
dual juries, for how would an old, mueh-married-
and-w«rried man-advocate in a shabby, rusty
gown figure if opposed by a dimpled legal darling
beautifully draped and curled who turned her
eyes on a wholly masculine dozen and demanded
her client’s acquittal with a sob in her voice ? But
how, tell me, will they arrange about locking up
the mixed jury till next morning? I propose—it
is as well to have these matters at least partially
settled in advance—that the lady and gentle-
men jurors consult upon their verdict during the
stilly hours of the night through an iron grating
—as the world does when it visits its friends in
gaol.
Which reminds me that the circus Fitzgeralds
advertised in Bathurst, the other day, that four
well-known citizens, whom they named, would
enter a den containing four hungry lions, and
drink a bottle of wine therein. The circus was
perfectly rushed that night. Then it was found
that the lions had been securely railed off in a
corner, and that the four intrepid citizens, who
were to do the “ Roman Spectacle ” act of “ Lions
and Christians,” calmly entered the vacant
part of the cage and swallowed their liquor. The
audience, which had come to see the lions eat
rather than to see the citizens drink, was
absolutely disgusted.
The formal opening of the Milson’s Point to
Hornsby railway—how near this brings Sydney to
delicious lofty air I —la,t Saturday was well-
attended ; indeed, the special invitation train was
fairly rushed. Mrs. F. M. Darley started the
first train with a tremulous pipe of the silver
whistle (although she confessed to practising it all
the morning), but the green silk flag edged with
silver fringe fell decisively, and the train got away
quite professionally, after all. In the reserved
vice-regal car were the Lieut.-Governor and his
wife—in a striking turn-out of moss-green and
gold epingle, trimmed with moss-green velvet shot
with gold and bars of black astrachan, a three-cape
cloak lined with green silk to match the toilet,
small bonnet of green velvet. By a fortunate co-
incidence the streamers on a gigantic posy of
beautiful presentation roses exactly matched the
lady’s costume. The Misses Darley were more or
less in pink. Miss Burdett Smith wore a neatly-
fitting black serge braided d la militaire, and
made with black velvet puffs—black feathered hat
and feather boa; Miss M’Donagh appeared in brown
nndblue epingle with pale-blue silk vest and brown
velvet puffs, brown hat and feathers ; Mrs. John
Hay in copper and blue shot stuff with floral spot
made with dark-blue velvet and edgings of gold
galon—tiny bonnet en suite. A trip through gum-
-tree-haunted country was made to Boyd’s Look-
out, where Mr. Sievers entertained the special
carriage-party with welcome afternoon-tea at his
romantic residence, and a prolonged stay resulted
in the train not going on to Hornsby, after all.
The annual ball in aid of Tempe Refuge (which
most laudable institution is short of funds) occurs
at Sydney Town Flail about the first week in
June. Mrs. G. Mullins and Miss M‘Carthy are
hon. secs., and it is almost certain that the in-
coming Gofernor and his wife will be dais-deities
for the occasion. The Refuge wants to extend
its usefulness beyond the wash-tub, by teaching
the inmates cooking, sewing and fancy-work,
besides the three R’s and music. But why fancy-
work and music ? The whole of creation groaneth
under blue roses done in bias-stitch —and “ Little
Annie Rooney.”
The second “at home” at Admiralty House
revealed the Admiral to be the possessor of a plea-
sant baritone. The function was largely musical,
and an interesting item was a Scotch song by the
admiral, with piano-accompaniment by his wife,
and Miss Bowden-Smith’s playing of a Beethoven
violin-solo, accompanied by her mother. Alto-
gether, the afternoon was a complete success,
in spite of rainy weather.
I am not surprised to see it cabled that Baron
Carington, as Lord Chamberlain, “ has decided
upon recognising the colonial title of Honorable
at Her Majesty’s levees,” for did he not, on his
return ’Ome, suggest as a means of strengthening
the silken bonds, the establishment of an Aus-
tralian peerage!
Naturally they dressed “ Lucrezia Borgia ” well
at Sydney Lyqeutn last Saturday, for the Borgias
were dressy. In the first and last acts Lucrezia
was festive-widow-looking in a long-tailed black
gown with panels of gold and jewelled embroidery
and mantilla of black lace, and Gennaro towered
like a giant in green and gold. In the middle act
the heroine was gorgeous in royal purple silk con-
trasted with cream brocade heavily trimmed with
gold ; long trained cloak of ruby velvet edged with
stage ermine. Don Alphonso, in this act, was
also richly clad, but his mediaeval outline made
some of his poses look ridiculously like stained
glass. In the last act, Gennaro lay peacefully
down to die in brown plush mingled with gold
fringes and pale-blue' silk, and Orsini’s most
attractive suit consisted of well-filled-out dove-
coloured tights witli a tunic of pale-yellow and
scarlet silk. Some of the stage guests rather spoilt
the picture by wearing modern evening dress-
one front girl in a red frock more suggesting a
suburban social than a Borgian ball, but these
were the only drawbacks.
I have received a soft and artistic photogravure
of a “Delilah” from the Australian Art Photo
Co., whose interesting Sydney studio is upstairs
in Jersey Chambers, on the George-st. block.
The co. imports softly-finished photos, of the
latest “ lion ” pictures, and a visit to their gallery
is a distinctly charming experience. Their prices
are modest.
The proposed advent of crinoline (to which a
London pen-lady has administered a blow in
advance, by putting on enormous hoops and
squeezing down Piccadilly, followed by a crowd
of “ barrackers ”), recalls the period when a vulgar
(now “ Honourable”) Mrs. Somebody gave a big
ball at her gorgeous Sydney house, and wore a
crinoline as one who was blind to its eccentricities.
As she lolled carelessly back on a low divan, the
assembled guests were startled by a loud “coo-ee”
from the ex-bullock-driving host, who, having
attracted his negligent spouse’s attention, called
out in horse-warning tones —“ Mary, yer sliowin’
all yer stockin’s !” If crinoline comes in again,
the educated but careless should memorise this
storyette.
Breezy advertisement from a daily paper :
~\\l ANTED, BOARD, by Married Couple and gentle-
’' man friend, in private family, neighbourhood
Burwood, mod. Nolens.
It almost looks as if the thinly-veiled lodger were
played out.
The champion ungrateful cleric lives in a
N.S. VV. out-west town—for I consider any parson
ungrateful who isn’t sincerely convinced of the
sovereignty of women in the churches, where the
percentage is ten bonnets to one bald-head. This
clergyman is, of course, in need of money ; as
usual, his thoughts turned to a Fancy Fair. Here
a great idea struck him ; he would run the thing
entirely with men—no old maid of them all should
be allowed to come within a mile of the bazaar,
save as a purchaser, and the Fair preparations are
actually progressing on this unheard-of plan !
Whether the young men are to crotchet the
babies’ bootees and make the crewel-work aprons
for their stalls has not yet transpired, but, as the
shepherd is determined to run his show on cock-
sparrow lines, I suppose they must. Local 1
maidenhood will now, I presume, piously hook on
to the buttonholes of strange men, with offers to 1
provide one pincushion in the heavenly cause.
Mr. and Mrs. Moore-Jones held a studio-
evening at their rooms on George-street block last
week. The arrangements were well done, and the
guests included Mayoress Manning, in pale silk,
who opened the proceedings in the absence of
acting vice-royalty; Mrs. Burdekin, in black,
with lantern sleeves of yellow silk, covered with
black lace ; Miss Burdekin, in yellow brocade;
Madame Kellermann, in black silk and lace. The ,
talented hostess (Mrs. Moore-Jones) wore a quaint
dress of pale-blue velvet, embroidered in seed
pearls—turquoise necklace. Music formed a back-
ground for conversation, and the people were
greatly interested in the display of art-work by
studio pupils.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMTTH.
Labour leader Glassey was about to con-
duct an election meeting in Brisbane (Q.) when he
received the news of the death of his youngest son.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream.”
Lyceum “A Million of Money.”
Criterion “ Walker, London."
Tivoli Theatre., Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal... “For the Term of His
Natural Life.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “La Cigale.”
Theatre Royal George Darrell’s Co.
Opera House Variety Show.
Sr. George s Hall The Steens.
“ Lucrezia Borgia ” ended the English
Opera season at Sydney Lyceum. It was hard on
Miss Montague, who has sung every night with-
out a break, that such heavy and exacting soprano
music should be chosen as a wind-up, neverthe-
less, Lucrezia was dramatically sung and passion-
ately acted. Mr. Turner was in clear voice for
the tenor part of Gennaro, and the heavy villain
Alfonso (a very dramatic performance) was well
within Mr. Farley’s range. Miss Staunton, as
the Johnny of the period, Maffio Orsini, sang with
her usual emotional freshness, and narrowly escaped
an encore in “II Segretothe other billed people
simply stalked about, principally disguised in
tarpaulins, and seemed to be counting the house.
A complimentary ben. to Mr. and Mrs, Turner,
for which many seats were reserved, was to end
the season on Tuesday night.
** * *
An enquiry into the state of “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” at Sydney Majesty’s,
reveals the fact that the fairy comedy is even a
shade better than it was at the opening. The
roar of the chorus of clowns rehearsing for their
performance keeps better time, and the stuttering
clown who has an impediment in his roar has
improved materially. He has been practising his
impediment carefully, and has now got it to per-
fection. Various new beauties have been dis-
covered in George Rignold’s song—the one that is
heard in a muffled fashion through the ass’s head,
and if Albert Norman could look a shade less
lachrymose and Miss Ethel Buckley were a trifle
mure audible, all would be well. The latter small
lady plays Puck with a reckless abandon that is
particularly charming, but her efforts to make
herself heard over-the big theatre threaten to
burst her costume down the back. The “Dream”
is beautifully mounted and stage-managed to per-
fection.
** * *
Next Friday the “Village Priest,” at Syd-
ney Criterion, takes the burden of his anguished
soul out at the O.P. side, and on Saturday “ Wal-
ker, London ” goes up for the first time in Sydney.
There not being enough of “ Walker ” to fill the
whole evening, he will be preceded by Clement
Scott’s clumsily-designated one-act show, “Tears!
Idle Tears!” On the same evening Bland Holt
puts on “ A Million of Money ” at the Lyceum.
This stupendous amount of cash, very welcome
now in these reconstructing days, was written
by Pettitt and ’Gus Harris, but chiefly, we
presume, by Pettitt, and its strong point is a
racing scene in which the Derby is won under
various impossible conditions. At the Royal
Alfred D.unpier is still doing profitable business
with “His Natural Life,” and no change is
announced.
Mr. G. L. Goodman, manager of Sydney
Lyceum, who contemplates committing matrimony
at an early date, was testimonialised on Monday
by the Lyceum employes with a massive cabinet
of silverware, and that illuminated address from
which few citizens entirely esoape except by an
early death. About a hundred people were pre-
sent to help in greasing the slope which leads to
the registry-office, and the affair closed with
victuals, liquor, and much enthusiasm.
* * *
The minstrel and variety-show rages in
Sydney a little more violently than ever, if such a
thing be possible. In addition to Harry Rickards’
big company at the Tivoli, which is in a chronic
state of “standing room only,” the Opera House,
Royal Standard and Alhambra are all making a
decent living out of the sooty humorist, and one
or two casual exhibitions bob up at intervals and
then vanish again down below.
* * Jk *•
Melbourne dailies on “The Mountebanks”
out-drivelled drivel. In the first place, they said
the performance was perfect and the music ir-
resistible. A fortnight later they said the house
was always crowded to the doors—a plain, un-
varnished cram. Finally they discovered that the
opera was “growing in popularity,” or “ taking a
new lease of life,” or anything that was utterly in-
consistent with what they had said before. The
management quoted these precious “ opinions ,r
from time to time, although anybody who read
them as they went along would necessarily
“tumble” to the real facts of the case. When
will managers learn that a “good ” notice from a
daily truckler isn’t worth the paper it is written
on, for theatrical advt. purposes ? A rough notice
may do some damage for the reason that an
intelligent reader compares it with the nauseous
praise which the same rag has bestowed upon
hopeless failures, and assumes that the piece
which gets a “ slating ” must be unspeakably
awful. Daily papers, indeed, have long since
forfeited the right to speak ill of anything. No-
thing can be worse than some of the productions
that they, in the ordinary way, have lauded to the
skies.
* * w
Owing to the frantic encouragement from
the evening journals, Melbourne shows are in a
drooping condition of late. The rags in question
seem to exist only for the purpose of reporting,
day by day, the crowded state of each theatre the
night before. It is supposed that they have
entered into a solemn conspiracy to restore con-
fidence in music and the drama, as well as in
banks. They positively howl for the public to
roll up and witness everybody’s extraordinary
entertainment. They state that the arrange- i
ments made for giving pleasure to all “read like
a romance.” The eye cannot rest for an instant
upon one of those evening journals without being
dazzled by an intimation that another gigantic
change of bill is about to take place. And the
result of this imbecility is a growing distrust of
dramatic enterprises, and such a steady with-
drawal of patronage that the Government will
probably close all theatres for five weeks in order
that the populace may find time to reflect. Also,
the Treasurer has it in his mind to pass an emer-
gency bill prohibiting special interviews with the
managers of unassociated shows, on the ground
that any kind of laudatory notice is likely to
produce man panic.
** * *
After Friday night, “ The Mounte-
banks,” in case, will, in a manner of
speaking, suspend payment pending reconstruc
tion. A little reconstruction has been at-
tempted already. The “Ophelia was a daintv
little maid ” trio, abandoned for some nights an
peared again in quite a different place, and with
better success than at first. Local topical verses
are now added to the “ Penny in the slot ” dittv
and although W. S. Gilbert might swear at these
extras, they are cordially received by Melbourne
audiences. Last Saturday the two automatic
figures sang a verse and exhibited a placard in
viting subscriptions for the Women’s Hospital'
whereupon a shower of coins, ranging from the
humble penny to the comforting half-crown
descended upon the stage. Something under
was the total amount, and the scene was verv
suggestive of a “shy ” boxing saloon on a benefit
night, when an admiring audience throws speci H
at a valiant pug, who has just got the worst of it
Some of the charity was inspired, no doubt, by the
wild hope of touching Flora Graupner’s feelings
with a threepenny-bit. °
** * *
This Saturday they will revive “La
Cigale ” at the Princess. Little Violet Varlev
appears in the name part, which she took over
from Marie Halton in Sydney, and George Lauri
is to play the unthankful part of the Dutchman
who leans upon a white donkey for support.
** * *
George Darrell, at the Royal, likewise
intends to revive one of his many dramas ou the
same night, but the name of this coming earth
quake was not announced at time of writing It
appears, unhappily, that “ Life for Life” can “on
no account be reproduced ” after to-morrow
(fi rid ay), therefore all people desirous of eniovino
the Dumb Witness and the neglected father’s
corpse in the back parlour, must hasten to this
well-mounted spectacle. Last week’s metrical
notice didn’t mention that Jennie Lee a true
artist under all conditions, is a festive minor cir
cumstance who dances between the bursts of
bloodshed and proves the truth of the old saying
that in the midst of death we can still be lively
George Darrell himself is rather jocular through
out in accordance with the popular conception of
a gold-digging pressman. Some of his lines are
written with a light hand, and journalism ought
to feel obliged to George for helping to support
the common delusion that “ reporters ” are iollv
dogs, possessed of rich uncles addicted to leaving
them fat legacies. You don’t hear him scoffing
at other pressmen’s “stuff,” or cursing the sub-
editor. He idealises the character, and although
there may have been business reasons at work in
this it is, nevertheless, pleasant to lean across the
back of the dress-circle, and think that one bears a
resemblance to the bright vision on the stage
True, no newspaper hireling can hope to acquire
George’s walk, but the same remark applies to
ironmongers, painters, civil servants, and persons
in the tailoring line, none of whom perambulate
exactly like George.
** * *
At the Alhambra they have struck some-
thing quite novel, in a troupe of Siamese foot-
ballers. The Siam “ followers ” and “ half-backs”
disdain the use of the toe in their version of Mel-
bourne’s “national game.” They kick off with
their heads, catch the ball with the chin, and
generally treat the “bounding leather” in a
manner surprising to our native barrackers. They
neither assault the umpire nor darken the air with
horrible language, as far as one can understand.
All the same, the show is cleverly contested, and
both sides seem to win. In the first part Frank
Clark sings a cheerful parody on “The Bogie
Man,” which is remarkable for the glorious free-
dom of its comments upon Clara Parker’s capi-
talist, and other passing events.
** * *
A committee of clairvoyants and faithful
believers in spiritualism mounted the platform at
St. George’s Hall, on Saturday, for the purpose of
seeing through the Steens. A member of the S. A.
Legislature was said to be there watching the
business with all the force of his mighty intellect.
Yet this made no perceptible difference to the
large lady with the shrill voice. Martha came
through the ordeal as successfully as usual, and if
the spiritualists knew how she was doing it they
didn’t dare to “ let on ” for fear of bursting up
their black art. The contention is, however, that
Madame Martha and her husband can knock out
any pair of professional spirit-raisers in one test,
to which end they have offered Mrs. Somebody or
other .£2O to come forward and be made an
exhibition of for the benefit of the hospi-
tals. The lady doesn’t seem to accept the
challenge, though, and this looks bad for the
hospitals. Steen’s first attempt with a “Georgia
Magnet ” was clumsy and wanting in theatrical
effect, but it indicated everything that can be
done by the magnetic influence of a readied-up
damsel. The damsel in this case was a novice at
the business, unaccustomed to shifting stout
gentlemen with her fingers, or resisting the com-
bined effort of the committee to push her flat
against a pillar. In the end, the Magnet triumphed
over her adversaries, and provided a certain
amount of casual astonishment from the audience.
Australians don’t wax enthusiastic oyer this class
of entertainment. They regard the Steens and
the Magnet much as they regard the bird-cage
trick, and are very apt to walk out in the middle
of a mystery that they can’t explain and don’t
wish to unravel.
* * *
At the Waxworks another wizard is ex-
tracting correct answers from another blindfolded
lady, and shows elsewhere are getting along as
well as can be expected when a Government cordi-
ally co-operates with the banks by ordering them
to shut up.
** * *
Louis Lohr the likeable will, it is said,
take charge of Antoinette Sterling’s concert tour,
and have the personal conducting of B. and B. s
company through Maoriland.
At Poverty Point.
Clara Parker ought certainly to he staged. Here is
chance, d la Langtry, Yelverton, or Lola Montes. •'
an actor could make up for Joe Clarke—if he
money. Of course, Clara must act herself —anotherc
for Amory Sullivan. .
Pattie Browne cockily told Gaiety Edwardes tia s i
had “a professional reputation to lose, not to i . .
London.” Then the Times discovers that her s y
pantomime-boyish.


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all PporiTs belong to the Assured.
'On Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £29,292,016 ss. Id.,
■and its SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457,808 5s- Id., being the LARGEST
■Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. .in/the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particularsito any of the Agencies of ■ the * Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
J BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Note. This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
insurance Department. The Assets, Accounts and Surplus .to .Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
'the State by the Insurance Superintendent.
|bst
Ersoheint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis 3d.
Zu haben bei alien Zeitungs-Agentcn.
Abonncment 10 sh. jahrlich direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing Office, 26 Hunter Str., Sydney.
The lady-whistler—Miss Ethel Baynton—who warbles at
Melbourne concerts, and who is described as a “ pretty
, English lady ” by some Melbourne scribes, is a
Tasmanian hailing from Hobart. She started by imitating
fiTo (dadsome canary on her own account, and perfected
herself in the “art" under Mrs. Shaw during a visit to
England.
Youno’ Hawthorn’s imitations of Australian actors are
jlent in many cases. His funniest and strongest
Torts are the Billoloway contrasted with Alfred Dampier
•the same bit of “ Little Jim.” Time was when Toole
starred as a mimic by giving imitations of a kind that
wouldn’t be tolerated beside Hawthorn’s.
The story goes that Nellie Stewart has been saying
something about VV. S. Gilbert (in relation to Oellier)
which might make a good deal of trouble for somebody.
TJellie was on very friendly terms wilh Oellier, whom no-
body could help liking, and she was much upset when he
died. . . ,
Effle Clements, the Firm a coming pnma-donna, may be,
described, “ better than any singer who has yet
onneart d in comic opera in Melbourne,” but she will not
i ring out a huge reputation with her. Frances Saville
was much the best lady-vocalist who haa yet sung in comic
•opera at the Princess’s.
One of the solemn absurdities of “A Village Priest ” is
+w illicit correspondence in “cipher” which the judge’s
unravels from an old copy of “ The Vicar of Wake-
ji m ” why the learned judge and the married lady
should have carried on such an insane system of telling
their love is never explained. The fact is as mysterious
as the son’s discovery, in something under five minutes,
that the “ guilty pair ” had been giving themselves away
In the manner suggested. For all purposes of secrecy
the cipher story (which the murdered husband had
•evidently mastered at a glance) might just as well have
•been written in plain French.
That inflexible tragi-comedian, Alf. Boothman, was
fined £7 and costs, the other day, for basting his wife in
ber diessing-room at Melbourne Haleck. For the defence
it was argued that Alt. banged his better-half in the
interests of professional discipline. There was also an
allegation that Mrs. Boothman had previously taken part
in a general rising against her husband at the Opera
House on which occasion she gave him a “ one-er ” with
her brolly because he didn’t have her printed in
itypeas large as was used for his own immortal name.
Likewise, the evidence admitted that Mrs. B. kept a
revolver in her bedroom, and was a terrible female when
roused although Alfred took care not to go into the room
and muse her. However, the Court found for the peti-
tioner and Boothman has had to raise £lO in all, or go t o
prison’. Consequently, the family doesr'-t seem much
•better off than before.
George Conpin is written down “Copping” in several
■places ’in the “ Life and Reminiscences of E. L. Blan-
chard.” A veiled allusion to George’s accumulative
tricks ?
When the Potter-BellewCo. was in Sydney, Kyrle was
■standing one evening on the Royal steps (there are no
Royal steps), gazing at the heavens and thinking of the
copper-haired Cora, when a lady, a perfect stranger,
•approached him and exclaimed: “My God, man! how
beautiful you are ! Tell me, oh, tell me, sir, what is your
■sanguineous name ?” Yes, the ladies did like him.
Snazelle was explaining an idea of his for his one-man-
■one-show. Cartoons of public persons thrown on the
■screen, each accompanied by a few appropriate remarks.
A voice : “Good biz, Snazzy ; those few remarks ought to
be jolly well paid for, whether spoken or kept out of the
Ibill.” Solemn silence, during which the whole bar
■thought very hard.
Theatrical managers love to “ best ” newspapers, but
'Occasionally the press comes out on top. In a Maoriland
■town, Jimmy MacMahon was piloting a show, and had
■dropped round to the news-office to insert a very small
.advt. and get in a very big local. The editor was the only
iperson in the office, the staff being away in the next town
■at an election meeting, and the “devils” were riding
back and forth with the reports therefrom. Jimmy and
the editor were telling little yarns to each other, and
getting on nicely, when the fire-hell clanged. One of the
“devils” called up the stair that the Town Hall was
blazing. The editor was in a quandary. He had none of
the staff about, and he himself had to remain in the office.
In silvery tones he explained- the position to Jimmy.
“‘Would Hr. MacMahon run out and write it up ?” Mr.
M icMahon went, came back and soon had run off a
vcjlumu of “devouring element,” “lurid glare,” and
“awful conflagration.” Just as he handed it in, a police-
man called round to say there was to be an inquest in
-about ten minutes on a man who had been found dead
■along the road. “ We’re rushing things,” said the police-
*nan, “because the coroner has to catch the 8 o’clock
train. The other paper has its sub. there, and I didn’t
want to see you get left.” Once more the silver-tongued
■appeal, and one more column of " fearful tragedy ” and
■“appalling details” from the MacMahonian pen. And
then came in quick succession a buggy 7 accident, and a
late train, and a street row, and various other assorted
■excitements, and Jimmy “did” them all before that
■editor let him go home. Next day Jimmy found he’d
written about half the paper—and also that, owing to the
pressure on our space, “ the long local which Mr. Mac-
M.ilion has so courteously written about ixis own show ”
bad been crowded out.
A Gaiety girl writes from Auckland: We opened here
to big Liz. The seats were put up to auction and realised
11s. all round. The “boys” don’t mind paying a little
extntoget first glimpse at the “cats.” We play here
ten nights and leave for Wellington, play ing one night at
Napier, if possible, “making up” for the performance on
board. The dressing-rooms here are very had. One gas-
jet to four girls. You go out red as a tomato on one
side, and suety pale on the other. Maoriland is 100 years
behind time. On the block the ladies wear eight colours
at once. The tour is being extended, so we probably,
won’t gel back to Sydney this year. How we will endure
St Heaven knows.' The johnnies don’t understand
Leamar, and the ladies don’t know whether to laugh at
“Twiggey-vous ” or appear shocked. Lonnen is a great
go. He is getting back his health, but works too hard.—
Yours, Ta-ra-ra.
The Sass-Emery combination did not win the success
it deserved in Adelaide.
The Duchess of Sutherland in the blue plush gaol, her
sin plated with gold, fetches to mind Nelly Farren and
Fred Leslie in the prison-scene of “ Monte Cristo,” when
they wore puce kid gloves, with a broad arrow on the
back. Again, note how real life imitates fiction. There
is a bucket in a cell, and Duchess Sutherland has a silver
one, richly chased with go d by 7 Benvenuto Cellini, cost
one thousand guint as.
The Boothman fracas at Melbourne was a surprise.
They used to he Darby 7 and Joan.
There are the foundations of a Collingvvood (Melb.)
theatre, laid 40 years ago, now surmounted by a shop.
Coppin had ai! but concluded an engagement with
Arthur Roberts, when the Melb. Royal went to the
bad.
Walter Bentley landed in Melbourne 17 months ago with
very little more than a Scotch accent to bless himself
with. Now he has between three and four thousand
pounds beside. It is better to be born a canny Scot, and
have an agent like Lohr, than be a genius.
'Harry 7 Rickards has been singing the “ Little Nipper ”
for over 20 straight weeks in Sydney.
Why doesn’t Organist Wiegand give Sunday recitals?
No church would have such a .refining influence ; no show
would be so well patronised.
The Alexandra will be the second Melb. theatre carried
'by the Salvation Army. The other is that South Mel-
bourne place built by Mendes, an astounding white
elephant.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The fall of the London Chartered Bank is about
as sorrowful an exhibition as the rest. The London
Chartered had over £6,700,000 of deposits, and yet the
withdrawal of only £3oo,ooo—less than 5 per cent, of the
total—broke its heart, and it closed up. It had over
£BOO,OOO in gold, and when a little more than a-third of
this went in ten days itcollapsed—with half-a-mlllion bright
sovereigns still on hand. At the rate things were going it
had money enough in the safe for another fifteen days at
least, even supposing it couldn’t realise a single penny of
all its six or seven millions of Australian securities ;
and it hadn’t grit enough to even attempt to
outstay the run. It would he interesting to know
why the London Chartered retained that £BOO,OOO
or £900,000 worth of gold on hand. The only appar-
ent reason why such a sum should be kept in an un-
productive state in the strong room is to meet any sudden
demand, yet that could not be the explanation, for when
the sudden demand arrived the gold wasn’t used. The
bank that intends to burst at the first rush doesn’t need a
reserve, and ought to invest its gold—unless the yellow
metal is piled up only to gladden the soul of the board, or
to ballast the institution.
* * *
The action of the London board of the London
Chartered Bank in tacking on a postscript to the report
for the last half-year, advocating the passing of a
dividend, contributed in no small degree to bring about
the downfall of that institution. The L.C.B. is considered
the strongest bank which has yet gone under, for, although
its business was never phenomenal, yet it never tem-
porised with losses, as many other banks have done, but
faced the situation and wiped them clean out. Its reserve-
fund of £317,000 is no book-keeping entry, but is repre-
sented by Consols, which means hard cash. The Bulletin
will be very much surprised if the L.C.B.’s reconstiuction
scheme dpesn’t give more satisfaction to its depositors
than the proposals of either the A.J.S. or the E.S. and
A.C.
m * *
Last Monday the National Bank of Australasia
temporarily breathed its last, and was interred in the
hope of a blessed reconstruction. The National had about
£9,000,000 in deposits, and the unusually large amount
of £1,450,000 in hard cash ; but last month a run set in,
and during thirty days the withdrawals amounted to
£650,000. This left £BOO,OOO still available—enough, ap-
parently, for another month’s trouble —but the directors
closed the doors.
# • #
The Victorian Government, as a handy and
violent means of stopping the general run which was ex-
pected to ensue on the National Bank’s suspension, pro-
claimed five successive bank holidays, and thus shut up
the local financial institutions until Saturday next.
And when Saturday arrives there will probably either be
a profound calm—the panic having been forgotten, or
else a mad, tumultuous frenzy—the pent-up post-mora-
torium rush of the frantic depositor who, for five days,
has been under the impression that all the province has
gone broke together, and whose reasoning powers have
utterly given way beneath the strain. The appointment
of Saturday as the day of re-opening is evidently with a
view to this latter possibility; almost any bank, it is
probably reckoned, should be able to face its creditors
from 10 till 12 on that day of tribulation; and then, if
things look bad, the Government will probably declare
another bank holiday for six days or a year, or till the
end of the century. Meanwhile, there will be a glorious
opportunity for the bogus-cheque artist, seeing that his
fraudulent document can’t be verified till the holiday is
over, and by that time he w ill have got away to the
further ends of the earth.
m m m
Premier Patterson’s idea of declaring a five
days’ bank holiday in Victoria, only serves as a big “ad.”
for the strosg banks, and a bony finger pointing a warning
at the weak ones. For instance, the Union, Australasia
and New Zealand keep open to paycheques and cash their
notes, and otherwise conduct their usual business so far
as the law will allow. And as certain others don’t keep
open, the unreasonable public will conclude several
things, and then ?
* * #
After tottering feebly for several days among
many conflicting opinions, Premier Dibbs has, as we
write, “finally” fixed up his Banking Bill to read that,
when the measure is put into force, notes shall be legal
tender under all circumstances whatever. Therefore, the
time may yet come when a large and shaky bank that has
availed itself of the Act, may go forth and buy up, with
its notes, a controlling interest in a small but perfectly
sound institution, and then carry a resolution that the
latter should amalgamate with it on ruinous terms.
6r it may buy up land with its notes and then pawn the
land for gold—in fact, the possibilities are unlimited.
How all the fallen bankers now in gaol, or going that way,
must gnash their teeth to think of the good times they
have missed ! Alsq, how the Federal must curse, and how
Matthew Davies’ Mercantile—which might have opened
branches all over N.S. Wales and shot its notes into the
country by the barrow-load—must blaspheme among its
ruins !
# • #
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs, as another means of
“restoring confidence,” has directed that those civil
servants who have hitherto been paid in gold shall in
future receive notes—with which, of course, they at
once rush the banks for gold.
# # *
That ancient and conservative institution, the
Bank of N.S. Wales, pays 15 per cent, dividend, adds
£lO,OOO to reserve, which already stands at a million, and
carries forward about £16,000. Also it feels good among
the prevailing chaos with nearly three and a half millions
in sclid gold and silver and £560,000 in Government
securities in its vaults. The big front steps of the office
should be worn away by the feet of frenzied depositors
before such an institution as this begins to feel the strain.
# # #
Up to date, all the banks that have closed with
a lot of money still on hand profess to have shut the front
door “ in order to place all their creditors on the same
footing.” This explanation is getting worn out; also, it
is too thin. According to their ownshowing, the Commercial
of Australia, A. J.S., London Chartered, and E.S. and A.C.,
are all perfectly solvent, and whether they wind-up or
“reconstruct” their depositors will be paid to the last
copper. Therefore, so far as is needful, the creditors
were all on the same footing all along ; in other words,
they were all equally safe. They don’t want anything
more. If they are all to be violently put on
the same footing—both the man who desires to leave his
money in and the man who desires to take his out—then
either the one musfbe refused his cash when he needs it
or the other must have his coin thrown at his head when
he doesn’t need it. Also, the person who deposits his
capital for five years obviously doesn’t want to be on the
same basis as the one who puts his on current account,
and he is paid (at 4£ per cent, per annum) for not being
on the same basis, consequently to refuse ,to pay the
latter because the former isn’t in the same position is
pure idiocy—he doesn’t desire to be in the same position,
and be has no right to be. If a bank is insolvent, then it
is reasonable to close up in order to make sure that all
depositors receive the same 7s. 6d. in the £. But for a
solvent bank to close because, if it doesn’t, all its
creditors won’t be on the same footing, is as absurd as for
the same institution to shut because all its depositors
aren’t of the same height, or because they haven’t the
same number of children. Moreover, for exactly the
same reason, each bank should have suspended the day it
opened—or else it should never have opened at all. The
company which doesn’t care a straw whether its clients
are on the same footing or not, so long as they keep pay-
ing their money in, an'd only begins to worry about it
when they want to get their money out, is gambling with
a two-headed penny and taking a mean advantage of the
public.
• * *
Two conflicting shrieks are raised by the press
on the bank-bust question the cheerful shriek that
periodical panics must be expected, and that the breaking
of banks doesn’t involve the cessation of a country's
prosperity, and the warning shriek that unless particular
banks are promptly reconstructed the consequences to the
countiy will be positively appalling. So it would seem
that the experiences of the past are all right in them-
selves, but all wrong when they disagree with the in-
terests of the financiers of the present.
* # *
At a Melb. insurance company’s meeting the
other day, a gentleman from N.S.W.’ threw off the in-
formation that he was positively sore with admiring the
authorities of the Commercial Bank. Why this universal
desire to go frantic over the splendid ability of Gyles
Turner and Co.? The Commercial boldly proclaims the
fact that its liquidation at the present moment would
result in shareholders losing everything. Therefore, in the
name of the Almighty Dollar, Tub Bullktin asks —Where
does the brilliantly clever management come in? People
cheer the Commercial without having the remotest idea
of what its assets are like.
* * #
Side by side with the news that the L.C. Bank
of Australia had suspended was a cabled extract from the
Standard, stating—“the report of the directors of the
London Chartered Bank leads to the belief that the bank
is considerably stronger than the public thought.” What
a shocking exposure of newspaper gammon !
• # #
Colonel Templeton is now highly indignant with
the “gossip” that has done " so much injury ” to Mel-
bourne, more particularly to the Commercial Bank, in
which he holds a good many shares. How are we to kill
the gossip ? asks Templeton. He ought to know that the
task of slaughtering suspicion rests with the Government.
Not very long ago he was complaining that the Crown, as
represented by Shiels, had been indirectly responsible for
the public belief that financial institutions could miscon-
duct themselves with impunity. The gossip Templeton
complains of is bred by distrust of balance-sheets, said
distrust being founded on the certain knowledge that the
Crown has allowed innumerable lying balance-sheets to go
unpunished.
* * *
Manager Turner, of the Melb. Commercial, led
the way in “suspension, pending reconstruction.” It
now transpires that he had his reconstruction scheme
prepared to the letter. In every other case, suspension
came first; reconstruction was an after-consideration.
Turner has got safely on the opposite bank, and those in
mid-stream envy him.
# # #
History repeats itself in bank smashes, A few
Sydney veterans remain who recall the disastrous suspen-
sion of the old Bank of Australia in 1840 or thereabouts.
The assets were disposed of by lottery, and were drawn
for at the old Victoria Theatre. Some of the big prizes
remained unclaimed ; it is even said that some are still
unclaimed. Anyhow, one firm of solicitors will give a
substantial sum for an authenticated prize list. Several
other persons would like to know the amount made or
lost by the liquidation.
• * *
At the other day’s meeting of Commercial Bank
creditors a platform speaker requested that anybody who
didn’t approve of every proposal would politely hold his
tongue. Above all things, the meeting was called for the
purpose of being enthusiastically unanimous.
* * *
“ Creditors on current account of the E.S. and
A.C. Bank are, under the reconstruction scheme, to be
entitled to advances equal to 50 per cert, of their claims.”
Does this mean that the bank will add insult to injury by
lending them half of their own money at 8 per cent.
—or what ?
* # *
How the Sydney bank managers rolled up
before the Parliamentary Comr..ission and loftily waved
aside the idea of a State Bank, because “private enter-
prise ” was the only solid and reliable thing in the way of
finance. And then how unanimously they went away and
burst when the public wanted to draw a little money !
# # #
Those portentous people known as “city men ”
are now saying that the banks rather desire than dread a
general suspension. The bank which suspends has a
great advantage over the one which doesn’t, for as the
“trust accounts” of the “ busted ” institutions are per-
fectly safe—they can’t be improperly used without the
commission of larceny as a bailee—they are being eagerly
availed of by lots of people who are afraid of their own
banks closing up.
# # #
Millionaire Clarke took the chair at the Colonial
(Melb.) Bank meeting last week, and stumbled through a
speech which had the merit of artless simplicity to re-
commend it. “As the largest shareholder in the bank,”
said W.J.C., “I have always taken a deep interest in its
welfare, and will continue to do so.” This philanthropic
statement gratified the meeting exceedingly, and when he
added that he always kept a large current account at the
back of his shares, not a man present could deny that the
chairman was the bank’s best friend. Which is something
to go upon, nowadays. There have been cases where the
chairman was the worst friend the shareholders ever
trusted.
# * *
The chief magnate of a Melbourne bank has
personally guaranteed it to the Mint for £500,000 specie
should it require that amount.
* * #
What will be the position of the banks when
the leases of the N.S.W. Western District fall in under the
Land Act, about .two years hence? Day by day their
value as assets must decrease, and as, by a decision of
N.S.W. Full Court, the improvements revert to
the Crown as well, a very large security is dwindling
away. It would be interesting to know exactly how these
leases figure as assets in the banks’ books. No doubt
this lease-expiry business may form a peg whereon to
hang fixity of tenure, but land-nationalisation may be
hung on it too. More, it should cause the insertion of a
clause in the new Banking Act that all banks must
realise on properties which fall in anfl not hold and work
and squeeze them.
# * #
Queensland National Bank shares, £o paid up,
were cabled on Monday as selling in London for a humble
half-sovereign. In Sydney, on Tuesday, they were
quoted—“ sellers 425., no buyers,” which might mean
that their realisable value \vas 41s. lid., or 2s. Cd., or £l,
or anything.
# * *
The Q.N. Bank is suing three London papers
for an aggregate of £200,000 libel damages because they
asserted there was a rush on the hank at Brisbane. If
this little spec, comes off in full, the Q.N. can declare
25 per cent, dividend out of the plunder. People should,
therefore, hang on to Q.N. shares like grim death.
# * #
This is how the Q.N. Bank fares through the
panic. Most of the withdrawals from other banks are
placed in the Govt. Savings Bank in Brisbane, from whieh,
at 4 p.m. daily, they are carted to the Q.N. Also, liquida-
tion petitions have' been presented against three or four
defunct institutions. The Judge, in appointing the neces-
sary provisional liquidator, orders him to pay all moneys
received into the Q.N.B.
# # »
Not banks. Only sandbanks.
* # *
On the morning that one of the Sydney banks
suspended a little old man, with a canvas bag, came and
implored the manager to pay him the amount of his
deposit. The situation was explained to him, but he
decided to wait all day on the off-chance that the officials
would relent. When closing time arrived his last ray of hope
departed, and he went out into the pouring rain with his
little canvas bag still enipty. “ • ■' ■ 1 '■
# # #
A Sydney man who had a big fixed deposit in
the head office of one of the banks on which the wild time
was rapidly growing, waited on the manager to get his
deposit receipt cashed. This was refused because, as the
manager explained, the banks had agreed not to casli
deposits before maturity. The depositor immediately
went off to one of the suburban branches and managed
an overdraft for the full amount of the deposit receipt,
which he lodged as security. Two days after the hank
suspended. When liis friends name to commiserate with
him in his supposed loss he took them upstairs and opened
a little safe full of sovereigns.
# # #
The story goes that a haughty Sydney family
whose wealth is locked up in two of the suspended hanks,
has been compelled, in order to keep the wolf off, to get
a loan from its coachman who has a Savings Bank
deposit.
* # *
The bills for .£5OOO alleged to have been signed
by Millionaire “Joe” Clarke in favour of Clara Parker,
were bought by a Melbourne Hebrew for £lOO. As a
result of Mrs. Parker’s verdict he stands to make a profit
of £4900, minus the interest on £lOO. That Hebrew
doesn’t strike a Harry Mac Fat every time.
* * •
Melbourne Safe Deposit, says a leading official
thereof, holds now, as a result of the banking panic, at
least a million in specie. Of course, the cash is safe; but
what a hideous joke it would be to put up there a notice
some fine morning—“ Closed, pending reconstruction!”
* # »
Private trading firms in Melbourne, whose
members are involved in outside speculation, protect their
businesses by placing them under the Limited Liability
Co. Act. The shares invariably carry a heavy liability,
and are transferred to friends. Businesses worth some
millions, in the aggregate, have been subjected to this
process during the past year or so, and in several cases
the proprietors have privately compounded for from Id.
to Is. in the £, whilst the nest-eggs remain untouched.
tt * #
Blank, of Melbourne, is in much distress of
mind. The bank in which he has a large sum on fixed
deposit lias just paid a dividend of 11 per cent.
# * #
In reply to “Pardbry” and many others, we
have to say that the Nambrok and Melton Park land-
distribution, now advertised, is in the hands of reputable
people, who, so far as we can ascertain, have not out-
rageously over-valued the properties of which they are
disposing.
# • *
Judge Molesworth, who objects to the present
moral smell of the Vic. Insolvency Court, has called upon
a small army of trustees in insolvent estates to show what
they have been doing with the cash. Perhaps the Judge
can also attend to the party who privately assigns his
estate to another party, leaving this other party to settle
with such creditors as will take 6d. in the £ and not
worry any more.
# * *
Among other signs of “ renewed confidence ” an
indignant Sydney man complains that he attempted to
open a “ trust account” in a suspended bank, and was
well received until it transpired that the deposit was in
A.J.S. notes, when the bank promptly declared the
transaction off.
* * *
The expensive concentrating plant at the British
(8.H.) mine, after long rusting, partly through the water-
famine and the alleged scarcity of suitable milling ore,
and chiefly on account of the inability of successive
managements to work it properly, was lately started
again, and was reported to be giving unbounded satisfac-
tion. Two shifts have, however, been knocked off, and
the machine will only work one shift daily in future.
Official explanation—scarcity of water and accumulation
of concentrates. As a fact, there is not an unreasonable
accumulation of concentrates, and there is plenty of water
available from the Stephens Creek Co. mains, but it has
to be paid for. It is doubtful wdiether the concentrator
can profitably treat the grade of ore now being handled.
This uncertainly is increased by the fact that Barrier
mine-managers just now detest calling a spade a spade.
# * *
Broken Hill South mine is, we hear, now re-
duced to extremities for want of oxidised ore to keep the
smelters going, so the closing of the second furnace is
but the prelude to total suspension of smelting, One
furnace only is in blast, with a weekly capacity of scarcely
360 tons. Nothing whatever seems to have come of the
extensive prospecting operations lately carried on, so the
management has apparently concluded that no unexplored
bodies of carbonate ore exist in the mine. So far, the
South has only been shown to possess oxidised ore at one
end, and the boom-shares was fixed on the assumplion
that the whole of the mine would be founders rich as the
higher levels of the block first opened - which was very
far from being the case, for blocks six and seven, as at
present known, are practically worthless to the co.
# * *
A certain politician invests in a gold-mine, and
erects a small battery there. The mine proves “ not pay-
able.” The politician holds 92 shares ; another man, 6
shares; and the original discoverer and alleged “vendor,”
2 shares. Two miners the other day summoned the poli-
tician for wages; he pleaded “not indebted,” and
proved that he bad rented the nine to the vendor for
five weeks, all expenses to be paid out of the mine, the
balance, if any, to go to the pffiprietors. The wages-men
lost iheir case. And it would be interesting to know,
out ot sheer curiosity as to the working of the present
method of appointing the unpaid magistracy, what M.P.,
if any, recommended to the Government the names of (he
two Js.P. who adjudicated on the case.
* * #
The chief witness against some recently-con-
victed Sydney bank-directors appears to have absconded.
** * '
Rev. G. Daniel asked, at a recent meeting of
the Union Finance, Guarantee, and. Investment Co.
(Melb.) how it was that “ that notorious individual, Clara
Parker,” was indebted to the Co. for £4OOO. The answer
was—on land-mortgage. It is now'Clara’s turn to enquire
how a Christian clergyman comes to dabble in finance.
But we presume he is only a trustee for the widowed and
the fatherless.
# * «
An officer of a “reconstructing” l bank was
recently sent up to inspect a station to the owner of which
a large sum of money had been advanced on mortgage.
The officer found that the mortgagee had sold ail the
sheep except some 500 or so, and had skipped the
countrv.
* * *
One of the few Broken Hill outside shows still
working is the Maybell North, adjoining the old Maybell.
The lode, although not averaging more than a few inches
and patchy at times, is very rich—what there is of it—
and yields occasionally nice pockets of native and horn
silver.
» * #
Very few promising mining schemes are missed
by the Broken Hill men who have made and kept their
Proprietary money. Little rich mines of gold or silver
never trouble them, for big things in miniqg rarely come
out of small places. Representatives of the Melbourne
“section” have been examining the Shoalhaven alluvial
drift, the potentialities of which are enormous.
* * *
Faulkne'r and Pambula Co.’s wrangle over terms
of proposed amalgamation. Each is considered a per-
manent mine by those interested ; both are known to be
patchy, treacherous, will-o’-the-wisp concerns by cool-
headed miners who have examined both on their ratrits.
# * *
Star of the East (Ballarat), 1978 tons for 9760 z.,
a drop of about 2Jdwts. on their average for years past.
In a mine with a mass of rather low-grade rock this is a
big fall.
• • •
The Union Bank’s trouble was where to put the
inflow of cash during the panic.
# * •
The Sydney cabmen did a good business in cart-
ing sovereigns from bank to bank last w r eek. One man
reckons that he thus removed over £lOO,OOO.


5^vnaaa^
Cr* , £
|WWu-\5
c Vwv V
FOREIGN »V AUSTRALASIAN
si'inrs.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 all post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Rare stamps bought.
VINDIN <sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
IT HAS BEEN FOUND AND TESTI-
FIED
To by those who have used Wolfe’s Sehnapps
that it arouses without exciting the renal and
vesicle organs when sluggish. •
ne “ YOST” Typewriter
v V
Dispenses with INK RIBBONS, SHIFT KEYS and
«AI» ALU,V>lli>T.
Smallest, Quickest, Easiest, Lightest (weighs only lOlbs.),
most Durable and Cheapest to Run.
Over 13,000 in Use.
{3?" Prospectus and Specimens of Work (incomparable)
SENT FREE.
The YOST TYPEWRITER CO.,
120 Pitt-st., Sydney; and 144 Elizabetb st., Melbourne
Personal Items.
Melancholia is the matter with the Princess
of Wales.
Fifteen members of the N.S.W. Assembly
have been working gold miners.
The Chief Justice of N.S.W. is 63 years of
age; of Victoria, 49 ; and of Queensland, 48.
Gov. William Robinson’s son, Douglas,
sometime lieutenant in the navy, is now an artist
in Paris.
Hugh R. Reid, the loquacious ex-Presi-
dent of Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, is a
brother of the fluent leader of the N.S.W. Oppo-
sition.
Patchett Martin calls Rolf Boldrewood
“the Australian Kipling,” and Douglas Sladen
calls Martin “the Australian R. L. Stevenson.”
Thanks.
Considerable indignation is expressed that
W. P. Crick, the personal prosecutor of John
Norton, should also appear as the professional
prosecutor.
Parson Bevan gave up his pulpit in the
Congregational Church, Collins-street, Melb., to
the nnemployjfl one day last week. He does not
offer to part with the plate, however.
Stanley asked R. S. Smythe who it was
that first conferred upon him the title of “ The
Much - Travelled ” “Well, you see,” replied
R.S.S., “I usually write my own little pars, for
the dailies.”
Station-master Wills, of Ballarat West
railway depot, has retired. He is brother of
W. J. Wills, the explorer, and was connected
with the historic Ballarat Times, published on
Bakery Hill.
The recently-deceased “Jerry” Rundle,
M.L.C. (N.S.W.), is credited with having, a few
days before his death, drawn seven cheques for
.£lO,OOO each, and distributed them amongst
relatives—to save probate duty.
By the death of one Patrick Robertson, of
Dublin, Michael Robertson, his nephew, of Syd-
ney, succeeds to .£35,000, besides realty of thrice
that amount. The heir had been for years a lorry-
driver for a York-street house.
Joseph Azzopardi, of Hunter’s Hill (N.S.
Wales), who accompanied the N.S.W. Contingent
to the Soudan as interpreter, has not yet been
paid his little account of .£B4 10s. We shall never
hear the end of the Dismal Donkey.
Governor Jersey and Governor Hopetoun
both sold their Bibles before coming to Australia.
Jersey sold his—a copy of the first (1536) English
Bible—in 1885 for ,£l6BO. Hopetoun sold his—a
Mazarin—in 1887, and got .£2OOO for it.
Editor Fitchett,
of the Herald,
Southern Cross,
Review op Review—
and Methodist Ladies’
College, now writes
leaders for the Argus.
A collection of
the verses of Dr.
Woolls, who died
lately at Burwood
(N.S.W.), is to be
made for re-publica-
tion. Dr. Woolls’
muse was somewhat
mechanical and occa-
sionally pedantic, but
often gentle-spirited
and thoughtful.
J. B. Woclnough,
M.P. forSorell (Tas.),
is an ex-parson of sar-
donic humour. Four
years ago he bough 1 :
from the Tasmanian
Government the Port
Arthur model prison,
part of which con-
verted building ho
now uses as a resid-
ence. He once de-
clared his intention
of annually feasting
within the walls of
the ancient toiture-
shop a number of
“old hands” from
Newtown (Hobart)
I ivalidDepot. “Give
’em plenty of rum
and ’bacca, and let
’em revel amid the
haunts of their for-
mer torments,” said
he; but his actual
execution of these
plans has not yet been
recorded.
John West’s “ History of Tasmania ” is
pronounced by ex-Premier Parkes to be the best
piece of Australian historical composition with
which he is acquainted. The Rev. West preceded
Dr. Garran as editor of S.M. Herald.
Chief Justice Way (6.A.) had something
to do with the rapid success in London of Mrs.
Martin’s novel, “An Australian Girl.” Murray
Smith, in the same way, was a kind of London
godfather to “ Robbery Under Arms.”
John Purse, who, with Howard Willoughby,
now “Timotheus,” of the Argus, and several
others, started the late-lamented Melb. Daily
Telegraph, passed over the other day. Purse
died of broken banks and “Davies’ ” institutions.
A lodge of Melbourne Freemasons, started
some four years ago, adopted the title, “ The
Davies Lodge,” after the immaculate Matthew.
Will its members, like the Federal Coffee Palace
directorate, cast off the cognomen of their late
patron ?
Baby Lissner, Q. Minister for Mines and
Works, rejoices in a baby name—lsidore, and
drives around in a baby dogcart, drawn by a baby
pony. The whole turn-out, horse and all, and
with the baby inside, doesn’t weigh more than
about three cwt.
Lord Howard de Walden (formerly well"
known in Queensland as the eldest of the
Honorable Messrs. Ellis, squatters), whose divorce-
petition against his wife has just been refused in
London, will, when his mother dies, succeed to
.£150,000 a year.
Rumoured abroad that Ned Kelly’s armour
is in the hands of a Yankee showman. As a fact,
it is lying in the vaults of the old Treasury in
Melbourne. Its last resurrection therefrom was
at a private view by Gov. Hopetoun soon after his
arrival in Victoria.
Manton (acquitted husband in the Albert
Park alleged drowning-mnrder case) is little more
than a boy. His clean-shaven face and clear-cut
features give him the appearance of a fashionable
actor. He was much out-up at his trial, and took
a cup of water with him into the witness-box.
Clement Wragge, the much-advertised Q.
Government meteorologist, got out at a railway-
pub. on the Normanton-Cloncurry line. When
Mrs. Publichouse was informed who had been her
guest, she said —“By the hokey! I wish I’d
known chat before. I’d a got him to tell me my
forchun ! ”
N.S.W. Justice Foster reveals the ecclesi-
astical bent of his mind in remarking that, though
he “ disjoins ” when exercising his divorcing
power, he only snaps the civil bond—leaving
the moral one intact. The Judge is a better
churchman than lawyer, and openly says that, had
he to choose again, he would be a clergyman.
Shipowner Wilson, who challenged the
Hull dockers to a “ strike,” is the gilded snob at
whose house Albert Edward lured them on to
baccarat. Old Wilson, however, didn’t sanction
the baccarat, we remember. His objection to
high stakes accounts for his resolute refusal to
give another penny an hour to the labourers, no
doubt.
Arthur Desmond, fined in Sydney, the
other day, for having written the words “Gone
bung” on the Govt, proclamation guaranteeing
the deposits at N.S.W. Savings Bank, is the
author of those well-known and widely-quoted
(in England, America and Australia) verses, “Our
King that is to Come.”
Miss Leonora Jessie Little, who has just
graduated with high honours and a <£9o scholar-
ship in Biology, is the first woman to obtain the
degree of Bachelor of Science at Melbourne
University. No woman has yet taken the Mel-
bourne degree in Law or Civil Engineering, though
many have graduated in Arts and Medicine, and
several are working for degrees in Music.
Mr. Kingston (the “ Australian Abroad ”)
writes to say that his Melbourne Commercial
Bank meeting speech was locally misreported.
What he did say was that Gyles Turner “ was a
Unitarian who believed in one God, one bank,
and one body of shareholders whom he had then
called together to help him, instead of relying
upon other banks for aid, and so, among many
stools, coming to the ground.”
THE HIGHEST FLOOD-MARK.
THE FIRST FELLOW: “Ah, Mike, it was a great flood. I was myself
up to me chin in it for nine hours.”
THE OTHER FELLOW: “Yes, so yer was— I can see the high-water mark.”
The 'post-mortem examination of the body
of the late Premier Ballance disclosed that there
was a constriction of the descending colon, while
the formidable surgical operation which the living
patient recently underwent was directed on the
opposite side of the body and “above” (tech-
nically) the obstruction, which during life it was
impossible accurately to locate.
Patchett Martin, in his “ Sherbrooke,”
censures the S.M. Herald for often sending
printers to Parliament to report “as much as they
could.” It is to this he attributes the meagre and
bad reports extant of his bad-tempered hero. But
the main reason why Sherbrooke was so badly
reported, was that his spout let out his eloquence
too fast for the infant phonography of the time.
The remains of Richard Oobden’s brother,
buried nearly 40 years ago in the old cemetery at
Molong (N.S.W.), are to be disinterred shortly
and placed beside those of the corn-law repealer
in the family vault in England. The deceased’s
relatives have been induced to take this step
owing to a statement that the extension of the
railway from Molong imperilled the unmarked
sepulchre.
There used to be a wooden head-board on
a grave in one of the ports of Ponape (Caroline
Islands), much frequented by whaleships. ’Twas
a tribute from his shipmates, and read exactly
thus :
GORMAN C. CARROLL,
Ship St. George,
called to meet almighty god
from Injuries Rkcii. prom a
SPERM WHALE.
They were talking of M.L.C. Sargood’s
persistent self-advertisement. “Yes,” said one
of them, “ when a big donation is received from
an anonymous donor, you can bet that’s not Sar-
good. His gifts all bear Sargood, his mark. It’s
the Sargood trophy, the Sargood scholarship, or
the Sargood prize. Some day he’ll give a suit of
slops to the best Sunday-school boy in his electo-
rate—on the express understanding that the
winner of the garments shall wear on the seat in
large letters, “ The Sargood Pants.”
F. B. Suttor, N.S.W. Minister of Educa-
tion, at whom Parkes now never tires of railing,
was the old man’s colleagues in two Administra-
tions, and, while a colleague, was among the most
esteemed of his chief’s political friends. Parkes,
never much given to handshaking, looked daily
for the fingers of Suttor, and often postponed
questions at Cabinet meetings from which Suttor
was absent till “Justice” (Suttor’s Department)
could attend. Parkes now says Suttor’s brains
went out when he began to coquette with Dailey.
Crick, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), whose parents
were bush pioneers, was born in a hut, now in
ruins, at Overland Corner on the river Murray,
Dr. Cockburn, M.P. (S.A.), who is an amateur
photographer, got a picture of the ancestral hall
when on a recent trip to Renmark and Mildura,
and he has frequently made a wondering public
acquainted, by means of a magic-lantern, with
the birth-place of Sydney’s greatest ? Strange
to say, Lands Minister Howe (S.A.), when a
police-trooper, was stationed in the building next
door.
The just-deceased Lord Derby left no
lawful children, although it has always been
understood that he was the father of a “ morga-
natic ” family. He married, late in life, the grey-
haired mother of Lord Salisbury, who must have
found him a very trying person to go visiting with.
One of her domestic duties, they say, was the
writing of notes of apology, on a certain fixed
formula, to be sent along with the goods which
the Earl had abstracted from friends’ houses.
Signor Sani, the hideously-accomplished
sculptor who perpetrated the Sydney Post Office
carvings, has been honoured by H. Parkes with a
border to fashion a statoo, emblematising that
hairy politician “in an attitood of mingled
defiance and dignity.” The effigy is to hold in
one hand a scroll (probably a bundle of insolvency
schedules), while the other arm will be out-
stretched. “Impart to my heyes,”said Parkes,
“a lightning-leaping look of defiance, but at the
same time the serenity of perfect self-confidence.”
The statue is to be of sandstone. Parkes, so far
as history is concerned, is of sandstone himself.
O’Hea, who once represented Colac (Vic.),
applied to O’Shanassy for a Govt, billet for a
constituent. “ All right,” said O’Shanassy, as he
wrote down the man’s name and address, and
carefully put the slip away in a drawer ; “ there’s
nothing immediate, I’m sorry to say; but I’ll bear
it in mind.” “Now, look-a-here,” said O’Hea,
“ whoi have ye put it away in that drawer?”
“O, that is to have it handy for reference, when-
ever vacancy may occur.” “Now, me boy,”
said O’Hea, “that won’t do for me. You an’l
are used to humbugging the public ; but, d n
it all, don’t let us humbug each other.”
The last hours of John Ballance, the
deceased Premier of Maoriland, were in keeping
with his whole life; he was unselfish, unassuming,
and full of indomitable courage to the last. When
the fatal operation was decided upon the dying
statesman rallied suddenly and unaccountably for
the occasion. _ “ Casting off, in an extraordinary
manner, all signs of depression and weakness he
rose from his bed and walked, unassisted, to the
operating room. He shook hands cordially with
•he medical men, bade good-bye to all, and throw-
ing himself on the operating table asked them to
begin. It was a wonderful example of physical
courage triumphing over physical weakness.’ - ’ For
two hours and a half the surgeons worked (the
patient was suffering from an obscure in-
testinal obstruction), and then, owing to his
extreme weakness they had to suspend operations.
Later on, after a second operation, the sufferer
died. John Ballance was variously described
as an agnostic, a freethinker, and an infidel,
according to the standpoint of the describer,
but in his death he was as fearless as the tradi-
tional Christian who is borne up by the hope of
a sure and blessed resurrection. No politician
was more deeply regretted, and no one was ever
a deeper loss to his country.
Old Mactaggart, of Brumbydool, had one
particular hobby, and that was his rain-gauge.
Every morning (even in drought-time) he would
make a solemn inspection, and enter the result in
a book, which was forwarded once a quarter to
the nearest editor. One evening there was a heavy
thunderstorm at Brumbydool, and old Mac.
almost bored the two “ colonial-experience men ”
to death about his fad. That night, when all was
quiet, one of the jackeroos took a bucketful of
water and emptied it into the gauge. “I reckon
that will startle the old fellow,” said he. Next
morning, when old Mae. went, as usual, to see the
result of the night’s rain, he turned pale, and
rushed back into the house. “Guid Gawd!
Twenty-two eenches of rain ! Man, there’ll be a
flood ; we must get the frontage paddocks mus-
tered at once.” As the two pastoral students
returned from a hard day’s mustering, one re-
marked to the other, “ The next time you want to
fool with that cursed thing, you’d better fill it up
with skim milk. Then, perhaps, the old idiot
will tumble.” i
Retrenchment.
Ihe pruning-knife of financial reform has been
unsparingly used in the various Government
departments. The members of the Civil Service
have been classified, and an earnest endeavour
manifested to consolidate the working forces of
the various offices and minimise expenses. We
shall, therefore, soon feel the pulse of our national
life beating with a healthful vigour that will
electrify the world. Commerce and trade will
flourish once more, our credit will be thoroughly
restored, and the scares of the past few days re-
membered only as the phantoms of a disordered
brain. That the physical health of the people
will be assured, we need but quote the
words of those universally respected gentlemen,
Captain Fishe'r, Stipendiary Magistrate, and
Captain Heselton, J.P., which are as follows.
The former says : “I have used Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, and I am convinced that it is a valuable
therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic
properties.” And the latter writes : “ For many
years I have used Marshall’s Tonic Nervine, and
I can therefore personally testify to its many ex-
cellent strengthening properties. I may say that
I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the
employees of the company, and always with the
most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider
it to bo a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restora-
tive, a thing which even the robust sometimes
may require. I gladly subscribe my name to
endorse the merits of a remedy like Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine.”
Redfern Municipality (Sydney) recently
has retrenched. From a clerk getting- uieq
10 per cent, has been taken, but the man getting
.£4OO loses only 5 per cent. g
y
AN ILLUSTRATED ADVERTISEMENT.
“A SINGLE ROOM, good young gentleman, board,
every convenience”
How People Die.
The death-rate of the world is computed about
sixty-seven a minute, ninety-seven thousand seven
hundred a day, and thirty-five million six hundred
and thirty-nine thousand eight hundred and
thirty-five a year ; while the birth-rate is seventy-
nine a minute, one hundred thousand five hundred
a day, and thirty-six million seven hundred and
ninety-two thousand a year.
Consumption kills 50,000 people annually in
England alone, about 10 per cent, die natural
deaths, and all the rest die prematurely of disease.
Nature warns them with headaches, toothaches,
neuralgia, liver complaints, indigestion, kidney
troubles, etc., that they are not so young as they
once were. Yet they are so apathetic that they
let the disease progress, and take no heed of the
terrible danger they run, for they neglect the
warning, and the case proceeds beyond the
curable stage, and death results. Such neglect is
criminal. The human body will not stand the
wear and tear of present day wear and tear, but
requires special nourishment, as did the case of
Mrs. T. Dover, Harbour View Hotel, Newcastle,
New South Wales, who writes on January 20th,
1893.—1 t is my pleasing duty to be able to inform
you that I am one of the many hundreds in New-
castle who have benefited by the use of Clements
Tonic. For some considerable time past—in fact
since I commenced hotel business some twelve
months ago—l have been subject to various
ailments. I have always had a drowsy feeling,
and felt as though I was in need of sleep all day
long. I tried various so-called remedies to cure
me of this most undesirable feeling, but all proved
unavailing. However, one day a lady friend
called, and she strongly recommended me to try a
bottle of Clements Tonic ; I hesitated at first, but
eventually I allowed myself to be persuaded, and
I can assure you, I have no reason to repent it.
After trying one bottle, I felt, as though new life
had been ingrained into me ; I enjoyed my rest,
and the sleepy feeling during the day” had entirely
vanished. My appetite was improved to an
alarming extent, and I can now go about my work
with a will that is indeed refreshing—frequently I
am asked for Clements Tonic behind the bar, and
only yesterday morning two* stewards from a
vessel in the harbour called and complained that
they were almost unable to do their work, as they
had passed a restless night, and felt more inclined
to go to bed than perform the duties pertaining to
their positions on board. I recommended a dose
of Clements Tonic, and the effect was simply
marvellous. The stewards rallied as if by some
magic influence and they returned to their work
as fresh as they were the first day they joined the
ship. This is no idle boast, but a stern reality.
I oould give you several other instances of the
marvellous cures effected by Clements Tonic that
have come under my own attention, but I must
plead want of time to write as lengthy a letter as
I would like to. Suffice it to say that I have
received no end of relief from Clements Tonic,
and it will always be a pleasure to me to recom-
mend it to my many friends. lam satisfied that
Clements Tonic is not to be numbered with the
numerous quack medicines of which we read so
much about, but that it is a marvellous remedy is
the opinion of—Yours faithfully, Mrs. T. Dover,
Harbour View Hotel, Newcastle.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal YArcatie, Sydney.
COO
Messrs. Charlemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
gains rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
W 'H without doubt establish itself very soon as
one of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
DYSPEPSIA
Institutes an abhorrent change in all normal and
healthful conditions of the body. Wolfe’s-
Schnapps is an excel’cut specific.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing 1
Word Competition.—Mo. 3.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within six weeks from Saturday, 22nd April,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents arc
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will he added
to that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province ; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 3.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to be received by Saturday, 3rd June,
1893.
When Dailey made his
proposal, at a meeting of N.S. W. Cabinet,
to offer a contingent for service in the Sou-
dan, the only members present besides him-
self were Francis Augustus Wright and
James Squire Farnell. Dibbs knew nothing
about it until he saw a paragraph, stating
what had been done, in a daily paper, when
he was coining up in the train from Emu
Plains ; and Stuart was in Maoriland.
Name
Address ,
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
vjord will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received— no deduction whatever
being made. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
mill be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
33 A 34 Clarcncc-strcot,
SYDNEY.
■m
'M.
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing' Kigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various;
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
f
POLITICAL
POINTS
There are fifteen new men in S.A. Assem-
bly*
The Age democratises visibly. Its Argus
clientele of poor Tories is gone.
In more than one town in S.A. trades-
people are suffering boycott for daring to oppose
tlie National Ass nominee.
Ifc is computed that 15 members of the
neW S.A. Assembly will vote for doubling the
land-tax on unimproved values.
No official record was kept of the Cabinet
mPP tin£r under Dailey’s presidency, which decided
to send the N.S.W. Contingent to the Soudan.
The S.A. Labour-party was so earnest at
the general elections that it rejected Beer,
Gould, and Tucker in order to return its own
men.
Should the Northern Territory election
return two Ministerial members, Premier Downer
thinks he will be able to meet Parliament with a
majority.
Roberts, Labour-candidate for Gladstone
(S.A.) district, who polled 1030 votes against
Minister Howe and was just beaten, is but 22
years old.
Laurence Grayson, Commissioner of Work
in the Downer (S.A.) Ministry, “wept like a
child” when the final West Adelaide polling
settled his fate.
Ash, the anti-squatter member for Albert,
S.A., headed the poll at the recent election,
although he did not spend 10s. over and above his
travelling expenses.
Who can estimate how far the election
failure of the Queensland Labour-party is due to
the withdrawal of money, organisation, and voting
force by the “New Australia ” movement ?
“Can I drink to this Parliament?” re-
peated a zealous freetrader at a Blayney (N.S.W.)
banquet; “ I answer, I can. But mind, it’s the
only thing I’m willing to do in its honour.”
The National Ass members in the new
S.A. Assembly mostly favour the abolition of free
education. That is candid. The curse of the
world, from a plutocratic point of view, is free
education,
Morehead was not included in the M‘lls
wraith (Q.) Government for fear of the German
vote going bodily against all Ministerial candi-
dates. Morehead’s old “ German- scum ” taunt
still rankles.
The total cost of returning nine Labour
members to S.A. Assembly was £lBO. Compare
this with the expenditure of the other side over the
same contests —when you can find out what that
expenditure was !
The latest Mdlvvraithian dodge is the
“faking” of the polling places. Every station
where Morehead was unfavourably received in the
Balonne electorate was promptly proclaimed as no
longer a polling-place!
Wallace Nelson (Q.), Labour candidate for
Gregory against a M’llwraithian, was dis-
qualified through a verbal quibble. The Labour-
party have thus lost the services of perhaps the
best lay speaker in Queensland.
Somebody named Tritton, or words to that
effect, has, according to the cable, been saying in
London that the policy of “ Australia for the
Australians ” must lead to ruin. Quite right.
“Australia for J. Bull” —that is the proper policy.
The Ladies’ Gallery is indirectly respon-
sible for two-thirds of the twaddle talked by
Jawbone Neild and Reid in N.S.W. Parliament;
also, knowing members can always tell by looking
at this gallery whether Alfred Allen will speak
that night or not.
The salary of future Governors of Victoria
is to be £7OOO instead of £lO,OOO a year. When
the Imperial Government began to send ont a set
of hard-up noblemen in process of “reconstruc-
tion,” it became time to look at what you were
getting for your money.
A telegram in the Melb. papers states that
“ the Tasmanian Government has invited the
sovereigns of Europe and other dignitaries to visit
the forthcoming Tasmanian Exhibition.” This
sort of thing suggests that the Tasmanian Govern-
ment has been drinking.
David Syme on land-grant railways
“There is a good deal of prejudice about this
view” (Lilley’s) “of the matter, since all that a
company can do with the land ceded to it is to
settle population off it, and population is what
Queensland wants.” Charmingly ingenuous.
A. H. Landseer, nephew of the great
animal-painter, is now the father of the S.A.
Assembly, having sat continuously for Mount
Barker since 1875. He is one of the few members
who have persevered ,in supporting liberal
measures, although thus involved in personal loss.
In the same issue of the Argus appeared
cables recounting the rioting acts of the “ mob ”
°f strikers at Hull, and of the “crowd” of
Orangemen at Belfast; also a leader dwelling
with horror and loathing upon the lawlessness and
violence of the villainous strikers. Red revolu-
tion is abhorrent; yellow revolution is tacitly
encouraged. The colour-line again.
The six M.’sP. who represent Newcastle
(N.S.W.) and its surrounding district ought to be
rounded up into a rat-pit and let fight out their
mortal differences.
Premier Patterson has retrenched that
insensate guy, the Usher of the Black Rod, out of
the Vic. Legislative Council Chamber, consider-
ing the office “a piece of mediaeval mummery
that could well be dispensed with.” James can
have exactly the same excuse now for abolishing
the Council.
There are 744,859 Roman Catholics in
Ulster, and 874,955 of other denominations,
202,880 of whom are in Belfast city. The R.C.’s
of Belfast muster 70,234. Thus, outside Belfast,
there are 674,625 R.O.’s and 672,075 of other deno-
minations—and many thousands of Protestant
Ulster men are Home Rulers.
In the Irish coercion days boys used to be
arrested for whistling “Harvey Duff.” Now the
Belfast police have to charge mobs singing “Rule
Britannia.” Formerly a man got plank-bed for
disfiguring a Balfourian proclamation : now Bal-
four stands by and guffaws while a Belfast mob
burn a Bill of the Imperial Parliament.
Zimri Sellar, the evergreen candidate for
East Adelaide, has at last got above the bottom
of the poll, which position lie has occupied at
every one of the five or six elections he has con-
tested. He was rim on a scheme of what was
called “ organic organising,” and had about 2000
promises of votes, but only got 500 odd.
Treasurer Carter declares that the Vic-
torian Government does not intend to pay more
than 4 per cent, for any future London loans.
Interest at the Victorian Government Savings
Bank has been reduced to 3 per cent., that people
holding £lO or upwards may be encouraged to
invest in 4 per cent. Government bonds.
Lane’s lambs are to be “full white.”
This will be a terrible blow to the Chinese of
Australia—everyone knows how the Pagan has
longed for a chance to plank down 60 sovs. and go
to Paraguay and work for his tucker. Also, the
half-caste and the blackfellow will now have to
stop in this beastly country for the rest of their
days. Cruel, cruel edict.
The combined
shipowners of En-
gland refuse to em-
ploy union workmen
in their ships ordoeks.
Hence the Hull dis-
pute. “It is much to
be regretted,” said the
Roman-nosed Mrs.
Sparsitt in Dickens’
“ Hard Times,” “it
is much to be regret-
ted that the united
masters allow of any
such class combina-
tions, Being united
themselves,” con-
tinued that sensible
female, severely,
“ they ought one and
all to set their faces
against employing
any man who is united
with any other man.”
English Pharisees
are agitating for the
suppression of Sunday
newspapers. They
know very well —as
Wrixon, of Victoria,
knew when he passed
an Act of Parliament
to squelch the possi-
bility of a Sunday
journal in Melbourne
—that Monday pub-
lications entail more
“Sabbath” labour
than those theyobject
to. But they also
know, as Wrixon
knew, that the organ
which is read (not
played) during church
time has almost inva-
riably a Radical tone,
so they would fain
prohibit it in the
name of Tory religion.
The “vested interests ” of the dominating
Melbourne gang—especially those whose interests
are vested in land and house property which they
can’t sell or let—are directly opposed to every
scheme for depopulating the overgrown city. Put
the people on the soil—ye gods ! no! Sell the rail-
ways, have more Government loans, do anything
to keep the tadpole head of Victoria from shrink-
ing.
The N.S.W. squatter now sees a chance,
in the bank suspensions, to induce Parliament to
legislate in his especial favour “ The banks
have gone down because the securities on which
they advanced money have become depreciated in
value; many of those advances were on station-
properties, the leases of which are now expiring ;
let the Government renew most or half of these
leases and it will * restore confidence. ’ ”
In connection with the unemployed agita-
tions, the gilded fat men of the “respectable”
press never cease to sneer about the habitual
loafer. The people repudiate the stigma.
The confirmed loafer, dead-beat, and tramp, in
85 cases out of 100, is not of them. He is either a
“ reduced ” capitalist or the offspring of people
who have “seen better days,” and has had his
energies sapped by debasing affluence.
The Argus moralises on the Kanaka
trade :
Sitting in the comfortable little cabin and listening to
the stories of the two mates one gets a very good idea of
the way in which the trade is done, and the fair treatment
given to the Kanakas.
The newspaper that sits in the captain’s com-
fortable cabin and listens to the stories of the
mates is morally bound to get facts. What do
you think?
The N.S.W. Legislative Council has
shelved the Coal-mines Regulation Bill by sending
it to a select committee. These Thugs block
“hasty legislation” by utterly strangling or
lengthily delaying every progressive measure; but
when a distinctly class measure, like the Bank
Issue Bill, is mooted, they suspend their standing
orders without discussion nearly a week before it
can get to them, in order to be able to rush it
through when it does arrive. Then they profess
to denounce “class legislation.”
FOR THE LANGUID FEELING
Which an impoverished condition of the blood
and a diminution of the nervous force engenders,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is a genial remedy.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
The N.S.W. Government overlooks the
retrenchment it might effect by systematically
employing, in the clerical service of the various
departments, long-sentenced educated prisoners.
It should be quite possible to devise a scheme
under which a prisoner, now earning about ss. 6d.
a week, would do work in connection with the
public offices for which the taxpayers pay at the
rate of =6500 or <£6oo a year. Why not have a
prison section as an annexe to each department ?
Once Sampson had —(the missing lines !)
That slew a thousand Philistines,
And, when his sappy strength was gone,
It turned a tap of water on.
But Sampson, heeding not the cost,
That very handy weapon lost.
’Twas lost for ages, till, one day,
A pert Australian M.L.A.
Discovered it. But it, alas !
Instead of water, gave out gas.
And so, the champion of the field,
Talks everlasting Jawbone Neild.
S. A. Legislative Council consists of twenty-
fcur members, each elected for nine years, and
retiring in rotation. Next year, squatter Angas,
capitalist Simpson, ex-banker Tomkinson, Martin
(owner of big locomotive monopolies), and squatter
Bosworth all retire. The Labour members are
Charleston, Guthrie, Robinson and Kirkpatrick,
but Krichauff, Gordon and O’Loghlin are sturdy
Democrats. A great effort will be made to capture
three more seats out of next year’s vacancies, and
if this can bo done, an effectual gag will be put on
Baker’s National Ass gang.
Lilley has exposed the delusive represen-
tatives of MTlvvraith re the construction of land-
grab railways. MTlwraith declared that the
syndicates were prevented by a punitive clause
from employing coolies. Lilley points out that
the clause merely prohibits African or Asiatic
labour “ not of European descent ” :
Those words are full of fraud. They don’t need to
bring full-blooded blackfellows to make the railways, but
they can bring in a race very numerous now and very
troublesome in India—the Eurasians—
The saddle-coloured trash that Parkes imported
to Sydney to “ down ” the recalcitrant white
compositors.
THE FREE-PORTRAIT INDUSTRY.
M'GINNIS (to the theodolite man) : “ No, ye don’t take my foteygraf.
I had to pay forty shillin’s to frame the last wan.”
All the lawyers (Carruthers alone ex-
.copted) who dared not stay away voted in
N.S.W. Assembly for the Supreme Court
Judges’ “ travelling expenses” being continued at
the monstrous figure of 70 guineas a week each,
with railway fare, &c., thrown in ! In a word, so
far as the Judges are concerned, the lawyers don’t
consider their souls their own. These are the
things which make it apparent that the legal guild
is the enemy of the public. Nor is the solidarity
of the legal Parliamentary vote in this matter the
only ugly aspect of the question. The fencing
and evasion with which all attempts to definitely
ascertain the exact amount allowed the Judges
for travelling expenses were so long and so con-
sistently met in itself constitutes a scandal.
Victorian Government proposes to reduce
the salaries of Governor, Ministers, and legislators
thus ;—Governor, from .£lO,OOO to <£7ooo, a saving
of <£3ooo ; Ministers, a 20 per cent, reduction, or
from <£14,100 to .£11,280, a saving of <£2820; 95
members from <£3oo to <£2so apiece, or from
£128,500 to £23,750, a saving of £4750; total thus
saved, £10,570. N.S.W. Government could
similarly retrench to the extent of £12,650, but
proposes to leave the Governor’s and members’
salaries severely alone, while only taking off £l3OO
from Ministerial salaries, which are to be cut
down along with the 10 per cent, taken from all
the better-paid Civil servants. N.S.W. Ministers
now get £13,000 a year, and are to be kept on at
£11,700. The figures will then run :—Governor,
£10,000; Ministers, £11,700; 141 members at
£3OO each, £42)300; total, £64,000. Or, £24,000
a year more for these items than Victoria has to
provide.
Baron Carington, in his new capacity as
Lord Chamberlain, has decided that the individual
who is “ honourable within the colony ” shall, in
future, be recognised as an “ honourable” at royal
levees also. The Bulletin regards this departure
as evidence that Carington has read its leading
- article of 21st January, wherein it made some
energetic observations on “ colonial ” titles in
general, and on the person who is “honourable
within the colony” in particular. Carington is
about the most impressionable peer—so far as he
has got at being a peer—who ever visited Aus-
tralia, when he strikes a subject which comes
within the range of his comprehension. Anyhow,
it is noteworthy that the innovation came just a
week or two after the date when The Bulletin
article reached England, that interval being
doubtless necessary to let the subject soak into
the baronial intellect. By the way, the English
mail brings us from aLondon news-clipping firm no
less than seventy extracts made from the article
in question by English newspapers of all kinds.
A correspondent:—
Dear Bulletin,— N.S.W. Education Minister Suttoi
proposes to abolish truant-inspectors. I should say so.
Why they were ever appointed is a mystery. Let me turn
up the light. The teachers have always done the work
of the truant-inspectors, and the latter, with £2OO a year
and exs., have smiled as they did their “ filling in ” at
some school-inspector’s office. The truant-inspector has
proved a clerical jewel to the firm of district-inspectors—
a veritable stamp-licking amanuensis, in fact. Observe:
The teacher marks, checks, calculates, and reports the
attendance of pupils, and recommends or vetoes the
prosecution of each defaulting parent. When a pupil
attends about three days out of 70, the teacher fills up
certain forms, and, at the end of the quarter, these are
despatched to the district-inspector who, 1 suppose,
hands them to the T. 1., and finally the latter arrives to
prosecute. The teacher is allowed a day to attend court
and give evidence—the defaulting parent is fined 55., or
less, and the truant-inspector goes home. The teacher
does it all—has the only voice in the matter, in fact, and
yet it has been deemed necessary to keep these men at
the expense of the State. Why need the police prosecute?
Why not the teacher on behalf of his department— since
he is allowed to decide re prosecuting, and is required
with his books at court? The police will be employed to
cane pupils next.— The Axe.
It transpires that the Duke of Kent long
insisted on Queen Victoria being called Elizabeth.-
BIG OAKS FROM LITTLE ACORNS
GROW,
And from the mere knowledge of the germs con-
tained in the juniper berry the world is sup-
plied with that pure spirit, Wolfe’s Schnapps.


IREATMENT OF YOUTHFUL OFFENDERS
AO A IN.
y
I#"* 1
lifo.®
t
Besides the bread and water diet and plank bed, other
hard conditions of life for the N.S.W. youthful
offender are provided. " For instance, he is to be
very respectful to all officers tff the Govern-
ment, and must never pass a superior officer of
the prison without touching his flat-—especially
if the officer happens to he “ Nosey Bob.”
THE REASON OF IT.
Ist. Shall Boy (discussing the
present financial out-look) : “ I know
what makes the banks 4 bust.
2nd. Small Boy : “ Gam ! what-
yer giyin’ us ? ”
Ist. Small Boy : “ Why, they get
so much money in them that they
can’t hold it all; and then—they
‘ bust! ’ ”
w
i
The regulations further specify
ithat “he shall at all times l«f
j provided with a Bible.” The way
|of the youthful transgressor is
j hard indeed !
an interested party
/} pa.
& J'r%
*JSir Henry Faroes to move on tho
/motion, “ That the Speaker do now
leave the'chair and the House resolve itself into Committee of Supply,” “ That all the words
after the word ‘that' be omitted, with a view to the insertion of the foDowmg. words : This
House disapproves of any violation of the provisions of the Public Instruction Act of 1880, a.
that he takes special exception to closing the doors of the public
schools to children under the age of six years, and to higher fees being charged than thejaw
prescribes
fuß
N/kflliOfi'
The prisoners are to be allowed \Sfie usual
monthly visits, but the gaoler must be satis- •
fied that the visitors are persons to whom it
is desirable to permit the privilege. *
fKAILWftyA
A
O
O J
Goi^g^MENT^^/LLET^
RUBBING IT IN.
A circular is issued from N.S.W. Colonial Secre-
tary s Office to the heads of departments
throughout the Civil Service, intimating the
I advisability of Civil servants being paid hi
1_ notes in place of in gold. ~
*
£4,
%
THE OGRE’S CAVE.
Or how deputations are treated
at N.S.W. Colonial Secretary’s
office.
dsf
dsf
"1
AiZriL
dsf
If/oAoRAIJLC
OLD FRIENDS.
Lc" vl-xi, ; 7 edaesday, Noon.—Lord Caring ton, the Lord
Chamberlain, has decided upon recognising the colonial
* : v* title of ■■ Honorable ” at Her Majesty’s levees.
r t Ct.nl-
fin 111 .V-sa.*.
™ Yl •
FM. ■■' V9 uPi
Miu " ,f ~ J
ie &f
t
ds
Vi SR* tje
/has made up his mind to otle course, and that is that
( so long as he is in office he will give the daily papers from
this time forth not one word of information.
——»»
CHIEFLY IN SYDNEY.


4 The Treasurer! Is anxious to reduce the
£lko l of She debentures in order that
persons may carry them in their pockets
without inconvenience.
Solomovx,isa.«- cs
•w'iU vwe e,r iK«-
%TX&
J
Jpg*
t/ffir * JV <3 *
IP
up
p
i t,
n u
W *- , f Y/
,y
~p?o jw^rlr
jyocr- —! tty, tnA. rcr^A^r
au
w s ° r; N ' Y
fds
¥i¥UitEJfs
klnoVy
HITWkAe. W<-
'ltotfciX^Etvrs
lllMuMdb* The
Wll^r.
The ( ?o\vte- o.v« uour
r&afiLire- L A "to «-&t “RaWVtU
JyJ s *U <2 C-tofS a.% urel\ a-o TrU.ttlll
J-n sTo a c-t 01-.
Mr. Patterson doer not approve of the present,
system of promotion by seniority in the public
service,
lie points out that a system which ignores merit
deprives men of the chief incentive to labor,
and place* otßoora of varied abilities on the
name dsfi lse?L
f
, l?e4>'€ss
'OIA-V*
Vlfre ia 5
y'o i*-1'
Ajctjesty'
par
r»f» f
A large number of peasants bcbmgiag tw>
the Kharkoff district desired to'present
petition to the Czar, but being refused
facilities tor doing so. they laid down oa the
rails with the object of compelling the
driver of the Imperial train to stop.
The peasants were commanded to moVe
off the line, but they refused to do so.
' the train was then driven over them,
with the result that 42 of them weif*
killed.
■-TIIKUZAR ANDtIIS
: ~ //
. SUBJECTS. 7
of woristiS, who Rllegod Hhafe
hkv'ej suffered severely by the «P«‘V
tioJ if / thry "systom cf sub le"ti9B f*
“ sweating " in rjtnnSotion _«*•»’ Sl,lr '*
of the Metropolitan Hoard of Works con:
• tracts, waited on tho eewerag? coramittco
yesterday morning.
CzaRTiTzCJiBGON Jca
JiDaV'cl *ura.£
dWe cnticism
dw d AAT - Oud d
p e i's u«.
,c. 0 LVY *b e-,
tKouolit
"be.it.
Jones "laTlat"’av-e
7/TjLcyVCiyWv-
"V> a.w K-^or ; iT istx , r’ ((
cj « To veton c. t~~ ,
* 'JJrourn, yHo olclmau Y)
-ikei- 1 1" "W e »- vv
ait ia-tv a- Ic, "fa oS i I*l oM^
O'A e- tloottaer.
IN MELBOURNE AND THEREABOUTS.


Q. O O D SPEC.
SAFE, PROFIT A RLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, kuom £lO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title,
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1885) .‘{Oft Pill-sl., Sydney, X.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE. PERTH, W.A.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Confers upon the debilitated, the convalescent,
and the nervous, thorough digestion, clear brain,
and ability to eat with appetite.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is taken with perfect safety
by old and young. Its cleansing and vitalizing
effects are sure and speedy, and it is universally
conceded to be the most effective of all blood-
purifiers.
Advice to Young Men—Ur. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Removes from the blood, which is filtered by the
kidney, impurities which beget gout, &c., and
also disease these organs.
Society
The females of the Auckland (M. L. ) Women’s
Franchise League are burning to win their rights,
but no member will take office or do pioneer work
for fear of jeopardising her chance of catching a
husband. After all, a husband is a woman’s most
sacred right. The league should make the throw-
ing open of bachelors to free selection a plank of
its platform.
* * *
And so, in a measure, it is with the ladies’
committee of the Sydney Children’s Hospital.
The Dean of the Medical Faculty of Sydney
University had been asked by them to nominate
two resident medical officers for the institution.
He submitted as one the name of a lady who had
just qualified in medicine at the University. They
indignantly scouted the preposition. A woman !
It would breed discord —and so on. How well
these women understand one another! The
opposition to medical women does not mainly
come from men but from women. Your nurse
detests lady doctors. It is natural—she hates
being ordered about by another woman. She can
marry a male doctor, but a lady-medico is her
light-weight rival and has a superior social
status. The ladies’ committee also prefer being
associated with males. Where is the woman,
young and beautiful and not a fervid reli-
gionist, who takes to the disgusting occupation
of nursing merely because she knows it to be a
good work ? How many nice women would be
nurses were there no male doctors and no male
patients ?
# # •
The N.S.W. Governor’s soap and blacking
and minor domestic requisites look small items on
the estimates, but in some years they amount to
£3OO, in others to £5OO, and once in a while to
£9OO. Altogether, a N.S.W. Governor’s extras
regularly total £2500.
Dear Bulletin,
Apropos your yarn
about a blackfellow’s
ignorance of bank-note
values as against silver.
A nigger on a Burnett
(Q.) station the other-
day said to the boss :
“You gib it me one
pound ; mine want go
lon pi town. ” The boss
handed “Tommy” a
sovereign. Tommy de-
clined it, with —“Baal
me bin ask want it
that fellow ; mine want
it pound. ” And Tommy
postponed his visit to
the township. On an-
other occasion, we were
catechising Tommy on
addition. “How much
that, Tom ?”—produc-
ing half -a - crown.
“Mine think that harp-
crown.” “Yes; now,
how much this ?”—pro-
ducing twohalf-crowns.
A prolonged struggle
in mental arithmetic,
and then—“ Mine think
it that fellow three
bob !” Brigalow.
# # •
A Sydney draper
made application to
the late local Queens-
land flood-relief com-
mittee for a refund of
his donation, alleging
that his name was not
advertised in any list
of subscribers until he
drew the committee’s
attention to the omis-
sion, and that then the
error was ratified in
very small type and
away in an obscure
corner of the daily
papers.
* * *
An applicant for
the position of town-
clerk at Echuca (Vic.)
undertook to knock out
any recalcitrant com-
mittee - man in two
rounds. His offer was
declined, in the hope
that he would put up
for Parliament.
Lord Hastings, concerning whom and a
nurse-girl the cable-man has been speaking lately,
is connected by marriage with the Caringtons,
whom he visited in N.S.W. about five years ago.
He owned Melton, winner of the Epsom Derby
in 'B5. Another Lord Hastings is heir to the
Earldom of Huntingdon. And Australia’s special
“Salmon” Wilson seems likely to become yet a
grandfather of a Lord Hastings—provided “ it ” is
a boy.
# * #
When Primate Smith visited Echo Farm
Home for Inebriates, at Middle Harbour, Sydney,
last week, the “members” were lost in the
crowd of 150 picnickers who accompanied the
Bishop. Of the fifteen or sixteen topers and ex-
topers none had red noses or rum ruddiness.
There was no catalogue of patients, the interest-
ing cases weren’t trotted out. So far as is known
no one was able to identify the “members;” in
fact, no one asked who they were. The Primate
was the only curious person in the crowd of
visitors, which numbered many women. The
Bishop’s eye fell upon a gentleman of meek and
penitent look, whose demeanour at once struck
him, and, turning to the honorary director, the
Bishop eagerly asked, “Is that a member of the
Home?” “No, my lord,” replied the director,
“That is the reporter for the” —well, a well-
known religious paper.
• * *
N.S.W. Minister O’Connor’s new gaol-
regulations provide that culprits under 25 sen-
tenced to more than six months shall be fed on
bread and water for the last two weeks of their
term. This is wrong. A prisoner should be dis-
charged asstrongas prison fare can make him so that
he may be fit for work. Minister O’Connor’s regula-
tion is unscientific and will have the result of en-
couraging discharged men to start drinking.
* * «
Concerning the recent discovery of a leper
in Parramatta Benevolent Asylum it appears that
the man has been an inmate for nearly seven
years, and that the first hint concerning his con-
dition was afforded by a coloured attendant,
lately transferred from another ward, who objected
to dress the man’s wounds on the ground that he
believed him to be a leper.
* * *
The latest N.S.W. scandal, soon to come
before the Court, concerns some N.S.W. school
children, who are said to have been made the
bearers of love-letters, with instructions to des-
troy them if seen —between an elderly married
lady State-school teacher and a young Govern-
ment official.
• • »
The lady committee of Melbourne Women’s
Hospital has been bickering fiercely with the
resident medical officer (honorary) over his wash-
bill, totalling about Is. fid. a week. The com-
mittee was happy at last to grapple with a matter
which it thoroughly understood.
Wmmt
i
HALF-FARE.
BRIDGET (who has hitherto only announced lady callers, holding out a
curd) : “ Plaza, mum, here’s a big bloke wants to come in on
a choild’s ticket.”
One Sydney paper, which appears daily, has
now on its staff two reporters working gratis.
Why should they work for nothing ? Simply that
they may be on the spot when a billet becomes
vacant. To this has it come !
You are “civilly” free from your missus—
You can even refuse all her kisses
And bid a farewell to her quarrels.
When the “ civil ” release has been spoken,
Every tie that has bound you is broken
If your wife has just loosened her morals.
In a N.S.W. country school, it was known
that the master would shortly leave. The lesson
of the afternoon was the practical one of specimen
letter-writing—original composition, and all that.
Jenkins wound up his letter cheerfully : “ I hope
our next schoolmaster will be better than the one
we have got now.” The slates having been col-
lected and inspected—-“Jenkins !” Fearlessly out
stood the young cornstalk. “You write this?”
“Yea, sir!” proudly and cheerfully. “Do you
mean it?” “My colonial, just don’t I?” . . .
Poor, sore Jenkins ! But he means it more than
even
There are no half measures about retrench-
ment at the Melb. Women’s Hospital, The
resident surgeon’s salary was first reduced from
,£3OO to nothing per annum, and now the com-
mittee kicks at doing his washing. It has informed
him gently, yet firmly, that the institution declines
to accept the responsibility of bleaching his shirts
for nothing in future. The doc. is not yet charged
for board and lodging; but this is coming along.
MALADIES WHICH ATTACK
The kidneys are the incurable diabetes and
Bright’s disease. Wolfe’s Schnapps affords great
relief if used continuously.
Not a particle of calomel, nor any other dele-
terions substance, enters into the composition of
Ayer’s Pills. On the contrary, this medicine is
carefully compounded from the curative properties
of purely vegetable substances. Try it.
A Bourke (N.S.W.) man, now in hospital
through injuries received in a melee between a
bullock team and a camel team, asserts that as
soon as he recovers he will take a camel to Sydney
and perambulate the streets the whole of one day.
He calculates that by next morning Parliament will
have legislated for the exclusion of the unhand-
some quadruped,
* * 9
From Sydney E. News :
TA/'ILL Gent, of means assist a lady in difficulties
’’ with few pounds ? Faithful, Oxford-St. P.O.
TA7TLL Gentleman lend young lady £3? A.G.,
’’ P. 0., William-st.
N® wonder Herod Makin had many clients.
W'f ■
THE LATEST FASHION “FAD.”
What it may come to.
The Melbourne drapers who have large
stocks of unsaleable bustles on hand are now busy
throwing those obsolete feminine adornments into
the sea. The only way to recover the import-
duty paid on them is to re-export, so the bustles
are exported accordingly, and when the vessel gets
outside the Heads they are heaved overboard.
Sometimes, within the vicinity of Queensoliff, the
sea is dotted all over with bustles.
Dear Bulletin, —Why do you run in the
conventional groove of making your typical rich
man always fat and bloated? The N.S.W. rich
man is not particularly fat. I don’t believe there
are two rich and grossly fat men in Sydney.
The richest man, in the eastern provinces is
singularly tall and gaunt. According to the lights
of my (extensive) experience, the ordinary Aus-
tralian rich man is rather undersized and care-
worn.—G. [The rich men who are spare are the
exceptions that prove the rule. The N.S.W.
Upper House, which represents riches, also repre-
sents physical fat. Just look at ’email.—Ed. B.]
» * *
At the wedding of Mr. Charles Gavan
Duffy to Miss Ella M’Lean, at Melbourne, the
other day, the “big surprise” was the gift of an
oaken chest of plate and cutlery from Sir Charles
Gavan Duffy, senior.
#' # *
Toorak—and ruin !
* # *
Editor Bulletin, —Why are people allowed
to sit down and deliberately write letters —not
merely address envelopes—at the table at Sydney
G.P.0., specially set apart for letter-registration?
And why are people, women especially, allowed to
stand at the stamp counter, stamping their letters,
and thus keeping off intending stamp-purchasers?
—X.
• # *
A number of Sydney and Balmain em-
ployers have informed such of their workmen as
happen to be shareholders in the Balmain New
Ferry Co. —an institution started to break down
If you get a divorce, says Judge Foster,
Your wife is still yours—though you’ve lost her—
For the moral connection’s still binding;
The marriage still holds good in Zion,
And St. Peter, you’ll find, keeps his eye on
All those who this fact are not minding.
IN THE BANK.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
The man stood in the busted bank
Where all his “ stuff ” was kept;
His head upon the counter sank,
And ruggedly he wept.
The clerk he hummed a merry tune
The while his pen he suck’t —
Then chuckled, “ Come and see us soon
We mean to reconstruct.”
“I’ve toilfed hard and toiled long,
I neither drinks or smokes ”
(The clerk still hummed a comic song,
And thought of little jokes.)
“ I’d saved agin a rainy day
A tidy little sum.”
“By ykrgot” quoth the clerk, “ I say
That rainy day has come 1”
“I’d brought the missus up to town ;
We meant to see the sights—
She chose a kind o’ spotted gown,
What suited her to rights ;
I ’ad my eye upon a horse —
The old ’un always buck’t.”
Again the clerk observed, “Of course
We mean to reconstruct.”
“But carn’t yer give me something now,
Yer see, we want it badT’
The clerk he scratched his narrow brow
And thought the person mad.
“ Carn’t I have nothing, then, at all ?
I don’t mean no offence.”
“ O, yes,” replied the deriding tall—
“ You must have confidence."
“ ’Ave confidence ! I ’ad it when
I come to Melbourne first.
Ten years ago ; by ‘ speeler ’ men
They said as I was nurs’t;
I loaned them all my sugar, mate—
They kept it, that’s the game ;
This bank, I s’pose, will bid me wait,
And fool me just the same.”
The clerk he picked his pearly teeth
And slightly changed his pose ;
He stroked the silken hair beneath
His nicely chiselled nose,
And to the man, without a sigh,
A circular he chuck’t —
“There’ll be a meeting, by-and-bye.
We mean to reconstruct.”
Then slowly from that busted bank
The stranger wandered out—
A sun-dried vision, long and lank,
Oppressed by honest doubt.
One tearful eye at length he shut
(His parentage was Scotch) —
“ I trusted all my money, but
They didn’t get my watch."
Melb.
E. E.
Ormsby Plantagenet, Scion of Royalty,
Came to Australia bursting with loyalty,
Fresh from the haunts of the old aristocracy,
Willing to patronise even Democracy.
Letters he brought to a swell in authority,
One of the great Legislative majority,
Urging that Ormsby might have opportunity
In some department to serve the community.
Few days had elapsed when a vigilant Minister,
Watching his staff with an eye that was sinister,
Noticed a clerk far advanced in longevity,
Who, prompted by Bacchus, exhibited levity ;
The Minister instantly wrote the dismissal
Of him who had ventured to moisten his whistle,
And added a rider conveying a warning
To all who had headaches at nine in the morning.
Now, Ormsby Plantagenet had been to college,
And once had possessed a few fragments of know-
ledge ;
With precision he parted his hair in the middle,
And in physical health was as fit as a fiddle.
To him in due course the clerk’s billet was given
And the usual coach and four horses were driven
Through that funny piece of defunct legislation
Which State servants owe to the brain of the
nation.
Through the years that ensued, with a haughty
demeanour
Plantagenet moved in the social arena ;
He strode round the Block in apparel untarnished,
His countenance shining as if newly-varnished.
To ladies he proffered profound salutation,
And he seemed to enjoy the goodwill of the nation,
Though some in his office have jealously stated
His brains were not packed up when he emigrated.
Of late when the “ colony ” lost its prosperity
And debts could no more be passed on to pos-
terity,
The Cabinet ruled that to bring forth salvation
Of credit again to the suffering nation,
’Twas needful to go in for general sacking,
Hence hundreds of clerks from their work were
sent packing.
Some men were dismissed who for decades had
striven
For paltry advancement that never was given ;
And some who were gifted with greater capacity
Made way for some others of greater audacity ; ”
And again there were some who were granted
exemption
Who owed to some pressure occult their re-
demption.
Did Ormsby Plantagenet lose his position,
And is he now lowered in social condition ?
In a recent Gazette (a precise publication
Not read by the bulk of this somnolent nation),
We read in the space to appointments devoted
That Ormsby Plantagenet has been promoted.
DUCHESSES AND DUCHESSES.
In dim Middle Ages—if History’s pages
Are worthy of sober belief —
High nobles, for treason, or some other reason,
Were often found coming to grief.
The ferryman Charon would sneer at a baron
Whose body still stuck to his head ;
The Lord’s own Anointed was sometimes dis
jointed
Before his proud spirit had fled.
He bled, bled, bled,
At the place where they cut him quite dead.
In dim Middle Ages, when knights scattered
gages
And tilted around with a pole,
Most Britons of “ power ” went off to the Tower
And died very “ game ” on the whole ;
But smiling compassion has long been the fashion
In cases where rank goes astray,
The Radical humble is given to grumble
That “ toffs ” never “cop it ” to-day—
They say, say, say,
The “toffs ” have it all their own way.
Now, let us consider the case of the widder,
The relict of Sutherland’s Duke;
Her coronet glistened as, weeping, she listened
To solemn Judge Fudge’s rebuke.
For burning a letter (she ought to know better)
In spite of a legal decree.
Her rank didn’t save her the wigging he gave her,
And put into prison was she —
Was she, she, she,
Though her title begins with a D.
How honest and proper to order a “copper ”
To take the rash lady in tow !
The moral of which is, the law for the rich is
The same as for beggars, you know.
But as an intruder “swell ” relatives viewed htr,
And they gave his Honor the nod ;
She wasn’t a duchess blue-blooded (of such is
The recognised Kingdom of God).
Not odd, odd, odd,
Was the sending this duchess to “ quod.”


Th< equitable
LIFE ASSTOAMGE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS!
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. £167,686,366
New Business, 1891 48 560,31!)
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,456,871
Apply for “TO NTI N E TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens tf Actual Results.
j
SYDNEY BRANCH:
(Temporary Offices during' erection of Society’s perma-
nent building)
Junction of Hunter, Pitt Si O'Connell Streets,
Vjl
~ naUEHTEK
wants an Organ for her Christmas Present this yet r.
You can afford to buy her one, as it is an investment
which is sure to bring pleasure to the whole family an '
make home doubly attractive.
QONT
U= pQRGET
when you decide upon your Organ, to look into the
merits of the Estey. They are splendid instruments,
made in the finest manner throughout, and good for a
quarter of a century of service. Their tone is finer
than any other organ that is made.
ESTEY ORGAN COMPANY,
3RATTLEBORO, VT
"W. IX. Faliixg «Sc Go., Ltd.,
338 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
an old and unsatisfactory monopoly—that their
services will no longer be required unless they
choose to abdicate their anti-monopoly interests.
One Sydney employer largely interested in the
old Co. has openly told such of his employes
as live at Balmain that they must not travel by the
new boats under pain of dismissal.
* * *
When Edison’s phonograph was first ex-
hibited at St. George’s Hall, Melb., members of
the audience were invited to step on to the plat-
form and speak, sing, etc., into the machine. One
who availed himself of the privilege was a St.
Kilda barber who stepped up with a martial stride
to the funnel and bellowed in a deep bass which
reverberated throughout the building an inquiry
as to the relations of a high official personage of
the provincial Parliament and a certain widow of
his suburb. The phonograph proprietor at once
shut off with a snap, and the searcher after truth
met with the usual fate of such philosophers, but
the words remain graven on the plate even unto
this day.
* # #
The N.S.W. Cavalry and Victoria Horse
Artillery, at present in England, had a military
day out at Aldershot last week, and were “allotted
an honourable position near the post of the Duke
of Cambridge.” Happy warriors! When the
Imperial Institute opening day comes they will be
specially noticed by the Queen, and they will
eventually return to Australia so saturated with
“loyalty ” that their bodies will squeak a bar of
the National Anthem every time they knock up
against a lamp-post.
* # *
A woman’s journal, discussing the latest
thing in frilled nightgowns (the article has been
quoted in full by, at least, four Sydney papers),
says; “When a garment of this description is
made in white, light material, it is quite too
fetching, and it is hardly less so when a multitude
of small rosebuds, forget-me-nots, or some other
diminutive design is sprinkled over it.” There is
a certain solemnity about the thought of a lady
having forget-me-nots printed on her nightgown !
Man is so apt to grow forgetful after that stag#
has been reached.
* # *
The outcome of a recent Sydney E. News
controversy appears to be that, were it attempted
to boil a crayfish alive, that crustacean would kick
all its legs off for pure spite. The educative
mission of the daily press !
* # *
According to a N.S.W. country paper, a
Molong (N.S.W.) lady, “living in humb’e life,”
and “ the mother of four beautiful children,” is
“a double of Lily Langtry.” What a cruelly
good turn to do the husband !
# * •
There is no incorporated beggar on earth
to compare with the church. When the Queens-
land floods reduced hundreds of poor families to
beggary the sufferers set their faces steadily
against the idea of appealing for assistance from
England, and preferred to work out their own
redemption rather than cadge on foreign charity.
But the church is already howling vociferously for
money, or old clothes, or broken victuals, or any-
thing, from London, with which to repair the
flood-damage in the walls of the gospel-mill.
There is no blushful modesty about the church ;
when it wants cash it says sodn a voice like a fog-
horn.
There lately died at Morpeth (N.S.W.)
one Pat Griffin, who, fearing a pauper’s burial,
over 11 years ago bought his own tombstone and a
grave-lot. He had inscribed on the stone his
name, date of birth, &c., St. Patrick wreathed
with shamrocks, and some fancy portraits of
angels, and then he erected it where his
remains now lie. He used frequently to visit the
place to keep his own grave green, and has left
his all to charity.
When Editor Finlayson (one of the pro-
prietors of S.A. Register) went to Europe some
ten years ago, Medway Day (the Radical ex-
clergyman who has just made so gallant though
ineffectual a fight for Gumeracha at S.A. general
election) was left to run the paper along with
Kyffin Thomas, the other proprietor, whose brain
is not his strongest point. Just then there came
along from England a white-haired and fiery-eyed
single-tax enthusiast named Webster. He con-
verted Day, and Day converted the Register.
The one wrote burning articles in favour of the
new doctrine, and the other supported it in clear-
cut leaders. By their writings they initiated the
S.A. Single Tax League, which was the first
started in Australia. They gave South Australia
her land and income-tax which have since been
copied by Maoriland. They preached Democracy,
too, and the Register’s leading articles ceased to
be the usual drivel of the commercial daily, and
were so earnest, real and thoughtful that friend
and foe alike read and talked about them. Mean-
while Finlayson had returned, full of “ loyalty ”
and “sound principles,” and the white-haired
missionary disappeared, meteor-like, as he had
come. But Day held the lamp of land-taxation
aloft. It was some years before the horrified pro-
prietors discovered that their paper, which had in
the old days been the recognised organ of the fat
and brainless plutocrat, was in the forefront of
Democracy. “Representations” came in from
all sorts of “right-thinking people,” and the
land-tax had to be dropped. It was im-
possible to drop it like a hot potato,
but it was wriggled out of slowly, and in
the process Day had to go. In Gumeracha
he preached a slight addition to the land-tax, and
a corresponding reduction in the Customs duties,
and he did it with such success that, in a district
composed almost entirely of farmers, he polled
440 votes, or only 130 less than the second man on
the list. His return to the House was more
dreaded by the Conservatives than that of half-a-
dozen district Labour-members, and his defeat
makes the National Ass feel as if a weight had
been lifted off it.
Tribute to Caesar.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
He sat on a log with a visage solemn
(His bullock-team standing listless nigh),
As I read him the jars in the “Answers” column ;
And he winked with a rum-and-watery eye.
I read from the page where the bald-head grim,
Who wieldeth the shears and the bull-dog fell,
Slaketh the thirst of the scribblers slim
With bitter draughts from a poisoned well.
“ My oath,” he said (with an interjection),
And he blasphemed “Bill” and poked up
“ Diver ”
“ That old cove’s pitch is jest perfeckshun,
He’d make a dam good bullock-driver! ”
J.M.W.
“Repaid.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Scene the store at a wayback Western Queens-
land station. The owner, a noted skinflint, pre-
sides (in the temporary absence of the storekeeper
with the ration-cart) over the “dust-bin” and
gunny-bags. Enter a gaunt, hungry-looking
whaler,” who, grounding his swag with a grunt
of relief, puts the stereotyped interrogation—
“ Any chance of a job, boss?” in a tone that
implied anticipation of the curt negative it
promptly elicited.
This cleared the way, however, for the rest of
the formula: “Can you give us a bit of tucker,
then?”—producing an assortment of attenuated
and not too attractive-looking “ tucker’’-bags.
“ Don’t feed travellers here, my man,” was the
crushing reply.
The silence which followed was broken by a
sigh that would have made an alligator weep, but
old Tallowfat betrayed not the slightest indication
of melting. Whereupon the weary wayfarer
braced up, and, apparently abandoning his hopes
of renewing his supplies gratis, jerked out gruffly,
“Oh ! well, then, I expect I’ll have to buy some.
Here, give us half a pound of tea, three o’ sugar,
five o’ flour, and a couple of figs of your best
terbacker. ”
The “lord of sheep,” staggered by the capi-
tahstio air which had so abruptly replaced the
humble petition, quickly weighed out and handed
over the stores, and the traveller, gathering his
WHEN THE GOATS DIED.
“What a little mite your sister is, Johnny!”
“Yes ’in, she’s a condensed-milk baby, she is. She was reared when we was travelling west,
when the goats died!”
replenished bags with a cheery “Thanks ; so-long,
boss,” strode out into the sunlight.
“Hold on! you’ve not paid yet!” shouted the
suspicious squatter.
“ Can’t this time, boss; sorry to say I’m stiff.”
Never had old Tallowfat been done so brown ;
so, fairly boiling, he arose in his wrath and, heed-
less of more constitutional methods of collecting
accounts, rushed in pursuit of his debtor, out of
whom he proceeded to take the value of the
rations in abusive objurgations, accentuated by
vigorous kicks in the rear. The recipient,
evidently considering that “Now was the time
for disappearing,” despite the weight he carried,
soon distanced his irate pursuer.
Later on, as we roosted upon the “cap” rail of
the stockyard, we were joined by the defaulting
traveller, who had camped meanwhile on the
creek at the bottom of the “ horse ” paddock, and
who now took a seat with us on the stockyard
fence.
“ Say, boss !” yelped the stranger to his creditor,
the grazier, “Say, boss!”
The boss (he was in the stockyard) looked up.
“Hullo ! Oil ! it’s you, is it, you d d loafing
sundowner ; come to pay me for those variegated
rations, hey?”
“Well, not exactly,” responded the stranger,
lightly dropping into the railed arena; “you see,
when I came here I was knocked-up and starved ;
only a crimson mouse, in fact, but now I’ve had a
spell and a feed, I’m a sanguinary man again, so
I’ve just come up to pay you back that gory
kicking you so kindly lent me at dinner-time.”
And he did—with most usurious interest.
BUNYIP.
Two-storey brick bouses in Melbourne
Bs. a week.
Britain turns up with a revenue shortage
of .£1,574,000.
“ War is impossible in this humane age.’’
—George Sand, in 1860.
It is stated that a dumb member of the
Melbourne demi-monde used to carry a slate.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, boating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. IF" For external use try Codkmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
“How I Discovered Mount Morgan.”
Mount Morgan, the world’s biggest gold-mine,
has now distributed over <£3,000,000 in dividends.
This, from a book now in the press, is an account,
by Edwin Francis Morgan, of how the mine was
found. It is indeed a cold-blooded narrative :
“So far as I am aware, there has never been a true
report published in any of the Queensland papers. Some
I contradicted, and others I did not think it worth
bothering about. I have a record of everything that
tianspiredin this connection, so that what follows may
be taken as absolutely true.
In July, 1882, my brother Tom and I decided to go out
on a trip prospecting, the reason being that Sandy
Gordon, who was working in our employ at Mount
Wheeler, had promised to take us to a place where be
knew there was a silver lode. I provided horses, &c., and
we started from Rockhampton on Thursday, 13th July,
taking Gordon with us. The first place he took us to was
a mountain peak of sandstone known as the ‘ Pigeon
Box,’ where there was a copper lode on one side of it.
We intended to have a day or two prospecting there, but
when we arrived at the top and saw nothing, we came
down and searched round for a spot with water to camp
at for the night. I said the best thing to do under the
circumstances was to go back to Jones’ selection —the
nearest water handy—or get on the other side of th)
range. It was then dark. Sandy said he knew of water
three miles away. We went over the range at the
‘Razorback’ that night, and camped on Dairy Creek, a
tributary of the Dee. Next morning we started off for
what he called the ‘Nine mile Creek,’ down towards
Calliungal head station. This was where the silver lode
was supposed to be—some 18 or 20 miles from Mount
Morgan. We arrived at the Nine-mile in the afternoon,
and camped that night on a point of a spur, having a
good prospect all round the creek and ridges before
turning in. On Saturday morning we went where lie
thought the silver lode was, but found nothing. We
put down two shafts on the spots he pointed out, and I
think there were five or six reefs we cut trenches across.
We prospected all day until sundown, never getting more
than a few specks of gold to reward our labours. The
night brought with it a heavy' downpour of rain—it might
almost be called a waterspout—lasting for two hours or
more. The creek came down in a torrent, and every
gully was a ‘ banker.’ Nearly everything was washed out
of the tent. I got up in the night and put the horses out
of the angle of the creek on to the top of the range for
safety. Having covered the fire with a sheet of bark, I
put another over myself and awaited daylight. Next
morning (Sunday) everything was in such a sodden con-
dition we thought it the wisest thing to pack up and
clear home. This was easier said than done with the
river and all the blind gullies running a banker. How-
ever, we packed up and left camp at 8 a.m. Before
leaving I cut my initials in a big gum-tree. We swam a
number of b'ind gullies, and at length arrived at the
junction of Dairy Creek with the Dee. There was a
drizzling rain all the time. Sandy’ Gordon told us there
was an old hut on the opposite side of the creek, and
directed us to it. It was the hut of a Chinaman who kept
some sheep. I was riding a little chestnut pony’ named
Bravo. I swam across to the other side, and was followed
by my brother and Sandy. We eventually got everything
landed by means of the pack-horses. That was about
1 p.m. on Sunday. It was bitterly cold and still raining.
We got some dinner as well as we could, and making a
big fire dried our clothes. After we had finished dinner I
said to Tom, ‘ What do you say’ if we take a dish and go
up to the head of the gullies just to put in the evening?’
He was not strong or feeling very well, and therefore
seemed disinclined to join in. So I said, ‘Well, if you
are not coming, Sandy and I will go to the head
of those gullies and see what we can do there.’
We travelled two miles north of the hut, fossick-
ing as we went along in the gullies and ravines.
After prospecting several places we got over on to the
range, which we crossed in a westerly direction. We then
came down the gully, neither of us at the time knowing
exactly’ where we were. About a quarter-of-a-mile along
the gully I saw a big black boulder. Sandy Gordon was
then some 20 or 30 .yards away from me. Having a pick
I knocked a piece of the stone off. I saw there was some-
thing in it, and put it into my pocket. Going on a little
further, I noticed some similar stone, and took a piece of
it as well. I saw a number of these black boulders, which
appeared to have come from the mountain, but men-
tioned nothing of my discovery to Sandy Gordon, who was
completely unaware of it. I now suggested that we
should endeavour to gain the high ground, so as to dis-
cover the position of our camp. The whole of the moun-
tain was covered with a dense scrub—dogwood, wattles
and ironbark. When we arrived at the top we were no
better off, as we could not see our camp, owing to the fog
and mist. Before starting down for the river, which was
just discernible, I picked up some of the black stones on
the top of the mountain. After making in various direc-
tions to find the whereabouts of the camp, I came in
sight of it from the top of a ridge and coo-eed to Gordon,
who then joined me, and wo returned to the hut together.
“ When I had had a talk for a while with my brother,
we took a pick, shovel and dish, together with some of
the stone, down to the creek, where, after crushing it on
a shovel, we washed it. We were still doubtful what it
was. In panning off there was apparently more gold than
stone—if gold indeed it was!
“We said nothing to Sandy Gordon about it. My
brother was a bit excited over the matter, and sug-
gested returning ac once to town to have the
stone tested. As it was late in the evening, how-
ever, I counselled waiting until morning, and
then going over the mountain and thoroughly
prospecting the place, which course we adopted. ° At
about 6 o’clock on Monday morning we shifted our camp
to the mountain. We could not well find the place owing
to the dense undergrowth. We went to the north side”
where I had been the day before, thinking the stuff mi»ht
have come down the gully, as it was there below us all tho
time. We.went all round the place and sank a few pot-
holes, getting colours now and again. We worked up the
gullies on the north of r lie mountain until dinner-time,
reserving an inspection of the south side until the after-
noon, when wo followed up one of the gullies from the
soutii as far as we could. We had to cut away the grass-
trees and dogwood to pitch our tent on what is now the
south claim. Next morning we went over the mountain
prospecting, finding any amount of good stone, some of
which we took to the creek and tried in the dish. On
Wednesday we again prospected, and on Thursday we
sent Sandy to Mount Wheeler to my brother Fred.
with some samples for him to test; this was with
the idea that we should all meet in Rockhamp-
ton on Saturday, when we could learn the results. Sandy
accordingly started off with some stone in a bag. I after-
wards heard he never went to Mount Wheeler at all, and
that instead of doing so he stopped at Wyatt’s Hotel,
about half-way, on the drink. My brother Fred was sur-
prised on Saturday night when we told him. On Sunday
we set to work and crushed every sample we had brought
from the mountain. Just as formerly, we discovered that
each sample was literally charged with gold. There was
so much that we actually had doubts whether it really
was gold. On Monday we went out again, taking
rations, &c., with us, and continued the work of
prospecting until Wednesday night. On Thursday we
took up as much of the ground as we could. We
continued to camp in the same spot for several months,
no one outside ourselves knowing we were there.
Everything was'carried on in the name of ‘Morgan
Brothers.’ The next trip from Rockhampton my
brother Fred came with us. We rented a buggy and
horses at Rutherford’s. The journey up Razorback was,
at that time, no light undertaking. Our horses were
’fairly exhausted when we arrived at the top. We did
some prospecting, and took back samples from all places
known to us. My brother, I believe, gave a couple of
pieces Of stone to T. S. Hall, then Manager of the Queens-
land National Bank, who tested them. A few days after,
T. S. Hall and W. K. D’Arcy came out to the mount
and stopped there a night or two in tents. All were
perfectly satisfied with what they saw. Some stone was
sent for assay by Hall to Gympie and other places, the re-
turn being about 3,700 ounces to Ihe ton. Arrangements
were then entered into to go halves, i.c., the Morgans on
the one side, and Hall, D’Arcy and Pattison on the other.
Following this, definite steps were taken to get machinery
on the ground, Burns and Twigg, of Rockhampton, re-
ceiving the order to supply a battery (No. 1). In the
meantime, men were engaged and mining operations
entered upon, The results were, for obvious reasons,
kept as secret as possible. With regard to a statement
that has been made to the effect that Sandy Gor-
don sold the place for a bottle of grog, I may
remark that he never had anything to do with it. Donald
Gordon was out somewhere near Normanton at the time
of the discovery. When he came back he was camped at
Jones’ at ‘ Table Mountain.’ He used to beg and pray us
to buy a selection, which, for some time, we refused to
do. Only was it when we wanted a right of way I marked
off ten acres and asked him to sell that. We got Sur-
veyor Byerley to mark it, and then he again asked us to
buy the whole freehold, which we did shortly after. We
never wanted the selection for gold. When Donald Gordon
came out to the Mount he did not think there was much
prospect from a mining point of view, but seeing us working
there he imagined it was a first-rate opportunity to
dispose of his selection on the quiet, as it had been aban-
doned for about six years. We never on any occasion
asked him for his selection, and when we eventually
bought it we paid him in cash at the rate of £1 per acre.
The only arrangement ever made with Sandy Gordon was
on setting out in July, when it was understood that if his
‘ silver lode ’ was any good, we would give him £2O, equal
to one-third interest with ourselves.
(Signed) Edwin Francis Morgan.
Brisbane, December 1, 1892.
Poor Gordon!
The Columbian Land Distribution is
advertised on another page. This way of ac-
quiring a substantial competency requires only
the investment of one sovereign, and the under-
taking is promoted by several “straight-going ”
business-men of standing.
Robertson’s J.R.D. whisky (Sandeman,
of 70 Pitt-street, Sydney, agent) is the grandest
thing on earth. There has never been anything
like it since the world began, and there will never
be anything else even distantly resembling it until
the general resurrection. It is an open question
if there will be anything like it even then. The
object for which mankind was created was to drink
Robertson’s whisky, and the man who hasn’t
done it has altogether missed his vocation. It
was the first drink and it will also be the last.
Regarded as an object of beauty, Robertson’s
whisky wipes out everything in the way of scenery
yet heard of, and, considered as a work of art, it
breaks all records, past, present, and to come.
Perdition means a place where they don’t have
Robertson’s whisky. N. 13.—The above isn’t sar-
casm, but eulogy pure and simple.
For hsepatitis. Dr. Fletcher's Pills are a
sure cure for biliousness and liver complaints,
hsepatitis, headache, indigestion, heartburn, kid-
ney ailments, and females’ sick headaches.
So, if you want a really good family pill, try
Dr. Fletcher’s Pills, the silent and painless motor
that purities the human system of all accumula-
tions of morbid, foreign, and poisonous secretions.
They are as mild as a pet lamb, as harmless as
honey, as searching as a small tooth comb, and as
sure as a spring gun. They don’t go fooling
around, but attend strictly to business, and never
labour in vain.
Dr. Fletcher’s Pills are prepared on scientific
principles. They contain no aloes, calomel, or
gamboge, or any drastic purgative, like most pills
now sold to a confiding public, but are made of
pure vegetable ingredients, which act by gently
stimulating the liver and softening the impacted
faeces, thereby giving relief and comfort un-
attended by the annoyance and pain of griping
and purging, and are confidently recommended to
all persons of a sluggish or bilious temperament.
They are sold everywhere, or post free, thirteen
stamps, from F. M. CLEMENTS, Newtown,
New South Wales.


IDEAL.
The NEW MODEL “ HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS: Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 12 styles of Type.
I <£W LIGHT. S3T" COMPACT. PORTABLE. DURABLE.
The greatest success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars on the Mimeograph or Cyelostile, on account of no Backing, no Folding, no Cracks, and no Varnish, as by other
Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
t~> THOMAS, Australasian Agent, Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
Established 1876^
ASTHMA
CURE
WRITE rOR
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
«N
ASTHMA
O/
dsf
ents
Mejibourw
’TomosiffiK 5
Rocke
8W.M28
id Shari
“JHMfiJi
Tompsifl
'SYDNEY: QllOttBfO»
"Brisbane: Elliott BronC
“''Adelaide : Ft< »c(t,
jwji, SMrlan.&g. ✓
J VHhend Truth* W Teatimomnkfrets'
J^mfAMns^
Special Advertisements.
Carter & Co?
JSuauTabiiE
NON REVERSIBLE
rPHIS Ingeniously Constructed ItlU.l.UEn DINING*
T.4KLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—3S to 37}4 Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
$33 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
RELIEF FROM GOUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &G.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. lid. 2s. 9d..
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & CO.,
16, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
.<&£ & Los
<</> *****
s >
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
%
P V V°^
*°Qd Stre® x '
Beware o f imitations . The genuine is signed
TRADE MARK:- M USK DEER.
dsf
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
V '
Dr. t Baldwin
11.E.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board of N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoie,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
* IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr.' H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
SuRQERT.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.'
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists fortcarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, ft DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST,,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
.£49,460 worthfor «£l.
See Amusement
Column.
The only blackfellow ever known to evince
surprise hails from Port Darwin. His boss took
him round to Adelaide, promising to show him
where the jam came from. He was brought to an
orchard and told, “that was the place.” The
longer he looked the more his excitement grew
until, at last, he turned furiously on his master.
“ What for tell ’em lie! Mine bin look
eberywhere, not one jam-pot sit down alonga
tree.” By the same token, a young lady who had
been born and brought up in the far North, on
coming south and being taken out to pick straw-
berries, commenced to look round on the trees for
them.
ELECTRIC PILLS. —For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Electric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. 6d., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
THE GROSVENOR HOTEL,
Sydney.
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Rooms from 3s. Double Rooms from Gs.
Inclusive Tariff 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor
EPPI’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
The OALIG-RAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the puhlic offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison's Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph las two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: -Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street ;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 2, 1893.
r fLENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 17.
Bridge, Hodges Creek, road Goulburn to Pomeroy
Erection of Watch Tower, &c., Wilcannia Gaol.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River at Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Collarendabri
Bridge over Little River at Sergeant’s Point, road
Mongarlowe to Braidwood
Bridge, Culgoa River, at Wuhnorongle, road Bre-
warrina to Molten Plains
Bridge, Jerabaicumbene Creek, road Braidwood
to Major’s Creek (Elrington Road)
Completion of Bridge, Bega River at Tarragundra
Pipe Laying, Parkes Water Supply.
Construction of Elevated Service Tank, Nyngan
Water Supply
Additions and Alterations to Bridge over Cabbage
Garden Creek, road Booligal to Hillston
Pipe Laying, Bathurst Water Supply
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bombay Crossing,
road Braidwood to Queanbeyan
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Manufacture, Supply, &c., of Ironwork and
Erection of Iron Bridge and Construction of
Approaches thereto, at Wagga Wagga.
Materials comprised in section No. 1 of con-
tract, to be manufactured in the colony.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 26.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Business Announcement.
■Oi
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDEIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
WANTED, a reliable man with capital, as
PARTNER in the most extensive Coach-
building and Blacksmith’s General Business in the
Western District. The business is now carried on
by Mr. M. Treanor, at Bathurst, and has been
established over 20 years. A splendid chance for
a man with a moderate capital. Principals only
dealt with. Apply
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for prjce. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
M. TREANOR,
Grand Hotel, Bathurst.
680 683 George Street, Sydney.
(T
. BAKING
pOW D t R
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He : “No !”
She ; “Know my cakes?”
He; “All! Deni that make me love.”
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. Alexr. Paterson,
301 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
JST o Cur e, UXT o
\mmm 5
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which wilt
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
DEARTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can he felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for onr ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi'l convince the most'
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY
M‘Namara, the defeated Labour candidate
for the Albert (Q.), is a pressman and an intended
Paraguay! iau.
The (unopposed) elect of the Bulloo (Q.)
did not address his constituents either from the
press or the platform. However, privately, lie
promised individual electors (of both sides) pretty
nearly everything in their respective party plat-
forms. Originally proposed at a meeting of
squatters presided over by John Donaldson, his
nomination paper was signed by six workers
(hand). It will be interesting to watch this man’s
Parliamentary career.
So far, the Queensland elections have gone
badly for the Labour-party. Out of 32 members
now returned to the new Assembly, there are only
four straight-out Labour representatives—Fisher,
Hoolan, Lovejoy and Reid. To these may be
added as sympathetics, Charlie Powers, and, per-
haps, Leahy, with Chataway and Morgan as “ in-
dependent doubtfuls ; ” while J. T. Bell—the
scion of the late “Jimbour” Joshua Peter —who
calls himself an “ independent labour ” representa-
tive, is a true Tory suckling. There are 24 anti-
Labour trucklers to the Fat Man already at MTI-
- service. But there remain yet 40 seats to
be contested, and, as MTlwraith, who is a great
believer in swelling first appearances, played all his
sure trumps in the first deal, it is not impossible
that Labour may increase its parliamentary mem-
bership to the anticipated dozen. MTlwraith
and Kingsbury polled in Brisbane North a swing-
ing majority, made up adventitiously thus—
plural votes, non-resident votes, “ club ” and
“company” votes, the votes influenced by the
befooled Protectionist League, many R.C. votes
(given against Lilley as the author of Queens-
land’s “godless system of education,”), the
teetotal vote (given specially to Kingsbury,
and, through him, to the bibbing Scotchman),
the pious building-society vote (also especially
dedicated to Kingsbury). The 93 votes by which
MTlwraith headed his new Jackal represent
probably 93 persons (probably Protectionists) who
voted, curiously enough, for MTlwraith and
Lilley. The latter was just 186, or twice 93,
ahead of Glassey. The Ministers returned are—
Barlow, Byrnes, MTlwraith, Nelson and Tozer.
One pleasant incident was the downing of ex-
Minister Unmack by Labour-member Reid at
Too won g.
On Monday night, the “loyal” citizens
( i.e ., the Orangemen) of Sydney gathered at the
Protestant Hall to yell for the “ integrity of the
British Empire,” and to protest against Irish
Local Government. The affair (under the auspices
of the “National Defence League”) was adver-
tised as a “ public meeting,” which it certainly was
not. The public were invited to attend, and were
then howled at, assaulted, and thrown out of the
packed building. No amendments were allowed
to be submitted. John Cash Neild, John Davies,
and other much-respected and straightforward
politicians were in the forefront of the battle, with
various preachers of the alleged gospel as it is
in Belfast; but Pilcher, Q.C., who had been
advertised as chairman, carefully stayed away—
ashamed, no doubt, of the company he was
threatened with. The hall was but partially
filled, and outside the door surged a
big assemblage which hadn’t the password.
The Orangemen held the front seats en masse,
and a squadron of roughs and prizefighters (among
them Sandy Ross, who got such awful thrashings
in days gone by from that rascally Papist, Larry
Foley), with beetle brows and heavy jowls and
big sticks, prevaded the premises. Business began
with a dull thud and a sound of shattered teeth :
it was somebody “stoushing” a presumed mal-
content, and there and then hell broke loose.
Somebody got on the platform and gesticu-
lated wildly, and above the din and the
roars and the “ National Anthem ” could
be heard fragments of sentences ; “ British
constitootion . . . in’eritance . . . free-
dom of conscience . , . hempire . . . be-
loved Queen,” &c. Meanwhile, the “chuckers-
out ” w’ere busy throwing people into the street.
One “checker ” tried to shove an elderly person
through the window, but failed, as the elderly
Kerson was too large for the orifice. “ Jawbone ”
feild from the platform was understood to call
for the National Anthem, which was quite super-
fluous—that hideous psalm-tune was going
all the time. Somebody held down a Home
Ruler while another person pounded him on
the head with a stick in the name of reli-
gious liberty. Somebody tried to move an
amendment, but was clubbed in the middle thereof
and went backwards into the crowd. People
attempted to tear the clothes off other people
promiscuously, but failed for want of elbow-room.
Someone else called for more “National Anthem.”
Someone was understood to give about 700 cheers
for Gladstone. A big man with a red tie and a
shattered collar surged up for an instant atop of a
wave of humanity and demanded cheers for the
“ Ulster boys.” Another person proposed cheers
for the devil, and to hell with the Pope.,, .The
“chuckers-out ” began to heave more people into
the street, and a blizzard of profanity raged.
Somebody seemed to say that the motion was
carried, though what the motion was no one knew.
Then a stampede began, and the originators of
the meeting retired to “ fake up ” the usual cable-
gram to Hingland, setting forth that the people of
Sydney were solid upon the integrity of the
h’Empire.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
A'CrSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
tST" DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors —The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A., Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A.; THOM AS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; J. R. HILL, Esq.; A.
UIRECIOKa J.IIC j-iuu. on u. , , üßßifa Mo.nn.o-Ar nnd Anhinrv RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary;
Accumulated Funds: Ten and a-Half Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828. yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDJJEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
'I
BIRTHDAY CXJP Bait ilwick, May 24, 1893.
50,000 a* 10 50,000
Grrand Wationa.! Hurdle Flemlnsloii, July 8, 1893.
50,000 at 20 50,000
ONLY ADDKESS:
r iT l UKSAU."
C/o Gko. A dams (O iv ne r), Tatter-
-1 sail’s llotel&OldC'.ubPrennses
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
FOR COLDS,
COUCHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-ready remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRLTSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Preserves Furs from
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Cleanses
Domestic Pets
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE of Parasites.
dsf
•flfoNSTEfr
r CASH PRIZE
[consultations:'
‘Manders,’
180 Pi(l-St., SYDNEY,
Or Allniry, N.S.W.
NOW OPEN ON
Birthday Cup, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each
Birthday Cup, Sydney. May 27. 5000 at 5.
Grand National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 5.
Grand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully;
“ Robin Hood,” c/o. Handers’ Telegram Agency,
180 Pitt St., SYDNEY, and Dean-St., ALBURY.
5. EACH.
±
±
5. E ACH.
Morj-IIH
£shE2l£
i-*sS
ON THE
BIRTHDAY CTJP.
May 24, 1893.
At 5 each 20,000 At 5 each
First ~ .. 1500
Second .. .. 500
Third .. .. 250
S. (d.) .. .. 600
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
20 at 20 .. 400
50 at 10 .. .. 500
100 at 5 .. ... 500
175 Consolations at 2 each, 350.
Less 10 per cent.
345 Extra Cash Prizes 345
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes
Registered Letters to “GALA,” o/o, H. Alexander
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The ONLY Genuine One at 5 each in the Colonies.
Subscribers may witness Drawings.
ADAM BEDE’S
Birthday Cup 10,000 at 10.
Randwick, May 27, 1893.
First
Second
Third
S. (d)
1500
500
200
300
N.S. (d)
10 at 50
20 at 25
50 at 10
100 at 5, 500. 180 Extra 180. Less 10.
500
500
500
500
White for Our Printed Circulars.
Please write your address correctly to avoid mistakes.
Address
‘ Adana. Bede,’
Post Office Chambers
SYDNEY.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
" ghe (Sydney {Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
CHEAP MUSIC! CHEAP MUSIC!
I’AVTOV A CO., 19 Oxford Street, LOMMKV.
Australian Branch; 251 Swanaton Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To he had
of Music-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanslon-St., Melbourne.
•Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
N THE PRESS : “The Last of Six.”
Bulletin Series, No. 3. Price, Is.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE,
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Buuoioault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS '
of
“ -Villas® Prisst,”
SATURDAY, May 6—;* Walker, London."
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may he
secured six nights in advance.
Tivoli theatre
(Castlereagh Stre.'t, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
| “Hr ll A intY it I < Kj*_K B> S~j
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN G. LEETE.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Shakespeare’s Fairy Comedy,
“a MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE: Hon. B. B. Moreton, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J, J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq.,
Acheson Overend, Esq., C.E.
SOLICITOR; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide - streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000;
rental value, £1,500.
Nios. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of .£lO,OOO
1 of £5,000
4 of £2,500
5 of £l,OOO
5 of =£soo
10 of =£2so
50 of =£loo
100 of £5O
100 of <£2s
125 of .£2O
1.000 of .£lO
1.000 of £5
Total, .£105,000, no deduction of any kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win worth*
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
SATURDAY NEXT (May 6) SATURDAY NEXT
will be presented for the first time in Australia,
“A. Mlillioii of Money.”
By Sir Augustus Harris and Henry Pettitt.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Theatre royal
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
FIFTH WEEK OF THE SEASON.
THIS (Thursday) EVENING
“ FOR THE TERM of HIS NATURAL LIFE.”
and Each Evening until further notice.
ALFRED DAMPIER, Miss LILY DAMPIER, Miss
KATHERINE RUSSELL, and the Popular Company.
Box Office at the Theatre, where seats may be secured
six days in advance.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
fagpst:
*:-■
* T
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
| Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
I a Sydney Barmaid
i To be had only of
Md m . PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
VIOLINS. VIOLINS- VIOLINS-
T7UNEST copies of Stradivarius, Amati, Steiner,
Guarnerius, Maggini, and Conservatory, unsurpassed
for workmanship, appearance, quality of tone, sterling
valu", marvellous, at the lowest overheard prices. Band-
masters, violinists, and parents who require either a
single instrument or 100 dozen will find our prices right.
It’s to our interest to sell you a violin that is better
value than you can buy elsewhere for same amount, as
our enormous trade is secured by advertising, and a
highly pleased customer is the best advertisement we
know of. We send hundreds of instruments to all parts of
Australasia. We have grosses of violins to select from,
also clarionets, flutes, piccolos, flageolets, drums, guitars,
banjos, auto-harps, mandolines, angles, concertinas,
accordeons, violoncellos, strings, &c., &c. Catalogues
posted free. Hurry up, musicians, my prices will astonish.
It may save you pounds, send at once to
J. ALBERT Sc Sons, 118 King St., Sydney,
DEAF
'NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck's Invisible Tubular Ear Cushion*.
Whispers heard. Successful when all
remedies fall. Write for book of proof*
A.M. NAST,
49 Elizabeth Street,
Meliournl
[FREE.
SPOUTING NOTIONS.
The Pheasant scare in Sydney harbour will
surely leave its effects on some of the “sportsmen”
present. A shock of that sort is apt to go straight to the
spine of a heavy gambler and hide itself, preparatory to
popping up in the form of paralysis after many days. An
express race-train to Newmarket (Eng.) was on one occa-
sion thought to be running straight into a goods train,
and 500 good sportsmen began saying their prayers before
the other train suddenly shunted out of the way. A con-
siderable number of bookmakers were observed to “break
up” slowly after a while, all because they had been in
the train which nearly met with an accident.
* * •
The V.R.C. has added ,£446,000 in all to racing
stakes, more than half that amount having been dis
bursed during the last six years. £44,000 a year have
visitors to Fiemington of late contributed, through the
dub, towards the support of racehoisas. How much .per
annum have they directly contributed towards the sup-
port of the bejewelled Hebrew who Ins the odds?
Indirectly and direct y, of course, all the money gets to
the gentldman with the large nose. An owner doesn’t
win~£10,00() in stakes over the Melbourne Cup. He
merely takes over that sum from the V.R.C. in trust for
the vampire of Eastern descent.
• * •
The winner of a Vie. country pedestrian handi-
cap lately tried to pawn the silver cup, and was promptly
given in charge by Moses for holding stolen property,
hut was discharged on its being proved that the pot was
bought by the sports officials from another Hebrew—with
whom it had been soaked and not redeemed, by a certain
Honorable whose name would simply stagger you. Little
things like this cure one of envying “ rich ” people.
* * *
A youngster at a Sydney public-school was told
ny a stable-lad that the two Crowns was a good double for
Warwick Farm. The young ’un drew 2s. out of the
school Savings Bank, “wagged” it, and took £8 to
2s. at a c.ty tote-shop. So much wealth was a
burden on the youngster’s mind, and he confessed all to
his father. That good man severely lectured him on the
horrors of gambling, pocketed £7 155., and gaa e the lad
the odd ss. to spend, at the same time telling him it he
heard of any more good things to let him—the father-
carry out the commission.
* * *
“Then they faced each other for the second
lime, Hall still smiling. Suddenly Fitz.’s right shot out
like a piston-rod. Hall was not expecting it and it landed
with crushing force. The mass of hone and muscle caught
Hall on the point of his jaw. The blow was heard in the
remotest part of the ring. Hall never quivered after
receiving the blow. He fell backwards like a log, bis head
striking the cork floor with a resounding thud. . . .
Two minutes passed, and still Hall showed no signs of
returning consciousness. . . , Hall remained in his
corner for 20 minutes before he was able to be removed to
bis room. He did nor speak to. anyone, but simply gazed
around him in an idiotic manner, and was afterwards so
down-hearted that be moaned and cried continually. The
knock-out blow was pronounced by everybody to have
been the cleverest and hardest ever administered by one
pugilist to another. The lime of the fight was 13min.
Outside the building Fitzsimmons’ wife and child were
awaiting him in a carriage. As the champion reached it
he grasped both bis wife and little one in his arms and
kissed them repeatedly. Mrs. Fitzsimmons cried from
joy, while the child clapped its tiny hands and said, ‘My
papa won.’ Filz. then entered the carriage and drove
off.’’ Which interesting mixture conjures up the picture
of the haaigman buying chocolate-creams for his family
out of the proceeds of the dead man’s clothes.
* * #
A creamy joke is that Hall, in an interview, has
since stated that Fitzsimmons’ style “ didn’t impress him
much.”
* * #
The mere suggestion of Corbett and Mitchell
being matched in February to fight in next December
must have sickened pugs of the old school. But there
aren’t many pugs of the old school left. Drink has
decimated the brok n nosed brigade.
# # *
London Referee’s correspondent wires that the
alleged “£12,000” Hall v. Fitzsimmons prize has dwindled
to £3lOO, and that Fitz. has to take that or nothing. Gas
again !
• # w
“ Abington’a” death will put half the London
pugs, and their hangers-on “ upon their uppers ’’ How-
ever, he lived long enough to put up Mitchell’s stake
against Corbett’s.
» # *
(Still once again it is said “ Griffo ” leaves for
the States per next mail. Time enough to talk when
Griffo has passed the Heads.
# # *
The good-humoured giant, Professor Miller, was
once “stuck up.” It happened one night in America 1
when he was on his way home with a champion belt, a
silver mug, and a sack full of dollars. The leader of the
gang was a long, thin hoodlum, who asked for the time-
honoured match. Miller took him by the heels and used
him as a club to lay the others out with. Then he threw
him over a fence and went home to supper.
# # *
Dear Bulletin, —For years the sporting papers
credited a Scotch jumper, Young, of Alva, with 52,(ft. for
a running hop, step and jump. Like many other old
records, Donald Dinnie’s, for instance, it is now not
quoted, but I have never heard any reasons advanced
against its reliability.—Sport.
« • •
Introduced to Parkes, Humphrey Oxenham, the
bookmaker, said : “ I hope to see you looking ten years
younger on my return, Sir Henry.” Retorted Parkes,
“ I expect to see you come back a captain of the Salvation
Army.” Being asked why, the old man replied, “Because
I’m told they’re very successful with hardened sinners.”
# # *
Smith, the conqueror of Goddard, was univer-
sally reckoned a quitter prior to that event. Goddard,
declaring that he was not fairly treated, wanted another
“ go,” but Smith brutally said: “You will have to get a
reputation before I’ll meet you again.” The Americans
“have no use for ” beaten men. Smith telegraphed back
in response to a message from Slavin ; “ I will not fight
defeated men. Get a new record.”
# # •
N.S.W. Rowing Association has very properly
decided that the non-associated clubs (Mercantile and
North Shore) shall not be eligible for races under the
Association’s wing after Ist June, ’93. This is a step in
the right direction.
# * *
Trotting in Sydney lis as dead as a door-nail.
Most of the trotters are turned out, and the only hope
now for the trotting men is in the Kensington track
people taking the sport up.
» • •
Dear Bulletin,— lie your suggestion as to in-
stituting stock-riding competitions at agricultural shows:
—AtGayndah (Q.), they have a “ camp drafting match”
at their annual race meeting, which is undoubtedly the
event of the day for both competitors and onlookers.
There are three sets of posts, the whole forming a
triangle, having a set of posts at the corners. The posts
are about Oft. apart, and the distance between the sets is
about 30yds. A bullock is turned loose outside the
triangle, and has to be brought through the first set of
posts, then through the second set, then through the
third set; then hack through the first set, and then into
the mob. The competitor most quickly completing this
wins the prize. Time usually occupied, 2to 3 min.—
Brigalow.
* * *
People who ought to know say that Sydney has
this year a very good show of winning the Melbourne
eight-oar race.
# # *
Loudon Chartered notes were given and taken
at Eosehill (Sydney) on Saturday. “Take ’em or leave
’em,” said the books, and the punters took ’em.


a::
Requires No addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS: Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES; Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & CO., Ld.,
Albui-y, Sydney, amt Melbourne.
Perfect Food.
HORLICK’SI^
MALTED
MILK.
#»
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
for travellers.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked, 1
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk, 1 '
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants."
—British Medical Journal , April 18, IS9I.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HiU, LONDON, E.G.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
i
m
I
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
BROOMESWUSIC
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15, Holborn. tond^n.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REACTS PATENT
invigorate
■'[ 1'" •-'
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ 1 think them such very
good stays, and those yon sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. 0. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., soys lie be.
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
olaremont, Hastings, England.
5049,460 worth for ,£l,
See Amusement
Column.
*
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Clolli
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab’e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM Sc MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SYDNEY.
HOW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Humors
When their tender Skins are literally On Fire with Itching and
Burning Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly, and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical (because
so speedy) cure, and not to use them
without a moment’s delay, is to be guilty
of positive inhumanity. No greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon a child than
a skin without blemish and a body nour-
ished with pure blood.
CUTICURA
' . i
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, .and humor reme-
dies, are absolutely pure, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age, with the most gratifying and unfailing success.
Treatment. Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
skin purifier and beautifier, .externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn-
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, dear the skin and
scalp of crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
“All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations,
xoo Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, roc.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp'n, Boston, U. S. A.
red, rough, and oily skin and
hands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
*nd childhood are prevented and cured by that most effective of all Skin Purifier: and Beautiliers, the
celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps
while rivalling in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only pre-
ventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of most facial blemishes. Price, 23c.
1
Sv-
W.
Pimples, Blackheads,
Cleaverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
PELDHETM, GOTTHELF kCO .. .. SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.O.S.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAOTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
* 10 x
ds
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S sweet)
Lancet.
St. John’s Works. London. W.C.
ALL lIIS OWN FAULT.
Sober- Party: “Why didn’t you keep t£
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nbthinar else! ”
Coupon with Every Case,
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
15^“%
yfS- -
mmt
m
m
Sr
TRAD £ MARK
K3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, colds;
KKONCIIiriS
■)j AMD
INFLUENZA
It can now be had of all \
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, Qeorge-st,
Limited
worthfo r«£l.
See Amusement
Column
“Old Mate.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
A tree. The only tree to be seen on a
vast level plain. A miserable, stunted, evil-look-
ing tree. Beneath its scant and open-patterned
shade, an evil-looking man. Above his head a
bough, gnarly and knotted, bare, devoid of leaf.
Upon it a crow, battered, scant as to plumage,
and white-eyed. The tree, the man, and the
crow, fit companions for each other, worn, miser-
able and evil of aspect.
Not a breath of wind even rustles the few
wretched box-leaves that, with the sun above, cast
such poor shadow on the miserable-looking wretch
below. He sleeps ; but the crow ; the crow keeps
its eyes ever on the man. Two hops to right, two
hops to left. Croak ! A beak lost for a moment
among the feathers on its breast. Croak. A pro-
longed caw-aw-aw-aw, decrescendo, ending in a
ghoulish chuckle. Then, the crow motionless, but
the white eyes unceasingly watching while the
man sleeps.
* * *
Away, far off in the distance, a panting,
footsore, weary German collie. Nose to ground,
hurrying along as it best may. Now and again
with a yelp of pain, the brute, tumbling to the
ground, worries at a burr jammed between its
tender toes. Then, on three legs, jogs on again.
At last, at a dried-up puddle, where a caked glaze
for an instant gives a false appearance of water,
the poor beast stops, noses for a moment what a
week since had been liquid mud, and, with a
whine, lies down, thrusts himself far as may be
into a salt-bush, but still lying with panting sides
heaving in the sunshine.
* • «
Sundown. The tree, the man, and the
crow. A wave of coolness rushing over the
heated surface of the plain. The man sitting up
gazing at the crow. The crow uneasy, as if of
half a mind to_ stay, but presently, with a whish
of wings, flapping away. A black object, for long
visible sailing towards the western haze.
The tree and the man. For long the man gazes
at the tree, and his eyes wander from leafy branch
to bare limb. At last they rest on the limb
alone ; and the eyes stare. In them a gleam as of
fascination, and the crow in fancy still resting on
the_ bough. The tree, the man, and the crow
again together, worn, ragged, and evil of aspect.
But the myth of the crow, with the exception of
those eyes, is lost in the increasing darkness.
But the eyes are there. Two hops to right, two
hops to left, back again and again and again. And
the human sight follows. To the left as the dream
eyes bob to right, to the right as the dream-eyes
bob to left, backwards and forwards—glaring,
fascinated, terror-stricken.
Slowly the man moves beneath the bough, and
as his eyes glance upwards, so do the white eyes
creep lower and lower, till at last a hand is raised
and rests upon the bough ; and the hand and the
dream eyes meet. Then the other hand goes up,
and for a time both are busy.
. . . There is something hanging on the
bough—a strap—and the white eyes dance and
bob in a loop formed at the end of it. The dream-
eyes meet the fascinated human gaze, bob this
way, that way, up and down, and the poor,
glaring, human eyes follow and follow,
* * *
A scampering of feet, a rush, a whine of
delight, bark upon bark of joy, and a weary
German collie springs and fawns and tears at a
figure hanging by one hand to a bare limb, the
other fingering at a swinging strap noosed at one
end, but the buckle, slipped to its limit on the
pliant leather, forming the smallest idea of an
elongated “0.”
“ Old man ! Old matey ! By God ! !!”
Then the figure drops from the branch, and in
an instant man and dog make more than ordinary
asses of themselves.
# # *
And the crow’s eyes dance and gleam, bob
this way, that way, up and down, to right and
left. In vain. An owl sails past, with a screech.
The man looks up. The dog licks his face, and
the eyes have gone.
* * #
Much lapping of water. Into the de-
pressed crown of a sadly-dilapidated hat the man
—worn, miserable, and evil of aspect—pours water
from a canvas bag. The dog, weary, footsore,
wall-eyed, and ragged, laps eagerly, ravenously.
And the man, with one arm half round the tired
boast, keeps sobbing out; “Old mate, old mate !”
A.R.T.
“Respect is the term applied by men to
women too unattractive, to gain their love.”
Taine : “My private life is my own, I
have never been photographed or interviewed.”
N.B. —Taino squinted hideously,
A Canterbury (M.L.) inventor has
patented a new diving-apparatus which will
enable a man to work at a depth of GOO feet under
water, or about four times the present limit.
Also, lie reckons that, by strengthening the
apparatus, the depth can be increased almost
indefinitely, till at last the diver can go right
down to the bowels of the ocean, and look for
the sea-serpent among the lost masts and tillers of
old Sidoniau galleys, and prowl round among the
pillars of the earth where the light hasn’t pene-
trated since the Creation or thereabouts, and hunt
over the sea-bottom for the sunken cities of
Atlantis, and prospect for the mermaid and the
horse-marine and the kraken. If the new inven-
tion fills the bill to. the extent anticipated there is
an immense fortune in it. Even if the owner
doesn’t sell it he can put it on and go digging up
lost argosies, and become a millionaire almost any
day in the week. Probably there is hardly a
square mile of sea-bottom anywhere that wouldn’t
yield a big dividend if a man could only get at it,
and apparently the Canterbury inventor is going
to get there first.


MEDICAL. '
Herr XtASSMUSSEN’S
MEDICAL.
CELEBRATED BLOOD and NERVE REMEDIES.
iLlfalme Vitality Pills
(registered)
Cures the Nerves Bl Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
4s
DECERNEE
/>?ASS*
&
glpY
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALIIME
Herbal Remedies
—AWARDED—
GOLD MIDOiVL!
SVOMiV and PARIS.
r=r CURED 100,000.
m
&
0^
r rr r r
OM
HO
* PRESENTEOTo
O
*
M
Esq
r4|//^. h.r Rasmussen
$k 'S ■
mrZr— rr—. —„
vP
O
io AsaTOKEN ofCRATITUD E c JIS
H KOMN/NEOFH/SPAT/Emnm
fe .for Having Ristored TheMk
$
m
y
*N
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
A.LFA.X.IKTE LOCK FILLS
(REGISTERED)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).'
Ordinary Course, 23/0 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/0 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials.
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain f
Indisputable Evidence.
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured. Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
fds
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALP ALINE
PILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since. . , _
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace,
Also witnessed by A. Balt, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albert, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. —A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Eliisabeth-st., Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beantifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and Cs.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Cosliveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any land.
Ordinary course, 235. (id. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. Od. posted. Boxes at Is. (id., 35., Cs. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
and Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., Cs., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Pills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 48/6.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
'cures the nerves.
Ordinary Course, 23/6; Special Powerful Course; 43/6.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alkaline
Remedies.” Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
Paris and Sydney; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris ;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer & Proprietor
of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
which have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦
Herr Rassmusseu’s Diploma,
DHTCOLFIE
Elrru
!«
tEitaii
siftfc
.'S'
Vi'4%4
s^ISIENNED es
s
EXPOSANTS
INDUSTRIELS
J mn
tue! oc3sJJtms
AVEC LE TORE DE
-vV
Jto*
Wcanique
:
■ ; v . “■«;(:
3te
EPVBUOVE PROTEGE LE TRAVAIL
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIED tc
he Genuine.
“ Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been th» means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which lie has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.” —Sydney Evening
News.
“ Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials ot
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.” — Australian Star.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.” — Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.” —Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the bona Jides of his testimonials appear to be well
established.”— S.A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.” — Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable. — Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herk Rass-
MUSSEN, —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your Alfaliue Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bj their use. —Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES*
Alfaliue Hair Restorer and Eoautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing tlie Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and moustache?.
Alfaliue Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stilt Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., Cs.
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/G ; Special Powerful Course, 43/G
Alfaline Lock Fills
CUKE* Till: BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
AU PACKETS SENT lINOKSEIITKIK
“ Tlie Doctor.”
A valuable Herbal Work, by Herr R Shilli^T po^)“ UCb
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register a t letters containing: money*
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
Beware of liM-itationa !
llbur RASSMUSSEN’S
GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES
CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS
AS FOLLOWS:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT :
150 Bourke-st., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
NSW ZEALAND BRANCH:
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


S ettlement or the People on tlie Land!
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION of 1893.
SUBDIVISION OF THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
<s& XMKelt;ozi. P£i.x*ls.«
250,000 Subscribers of 11 each 251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments.
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of £1
MAY RETURN
£68,324 worth,
■ .1... ■ i*
ti
■ m
m
m
m.
.
.
■<
H
-. ‘ ■'
• ,
■
M
■
a»
SS
NAMBROK HOUSE.
—Also—
-113 Prizes, est i a e cd each £lO5O
9 „ „ from £560 to 900
120 „ „ each 550
3 „ „ from £340 to 540
100 „ .. each 24
Total Value, £250,000.
EACH SHARE lias the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of Ml
MAY RETURN
J>58,324 worth.
PLAN OF SUB-DIVISION OF THE MMBROK ESTATE
PARISH of DENISON, near SALE, GIPPSLAND.
jMnsoy
ffjMU A«av>W3lo X 3« 0^
o>
IT HI
cs»
s c os
V
r
v
«■■ ■ jf.
a ,-:
£JE
_ rj
et?
9«
«
01?
sc?
rw
c»z
*2
„ w
w o
It II 1 Ml
tt2 icf2
„ 00
L -I
a??
eJJ
StS
trt:
*l2
t~ -
_ M
-b;
nil
ir«
ET3Z
80S
LU
302
- K
; c
CBI
If
riu
i »in
rrott
•■•■ is
1115
til
mi OS?
EH
*tl
3 r>>
t;ii
; net
5 e-
IT 1 Ml
OTIB-
£B
criß! T.TCEI
0 B IO)
89
OOTIH
i nn
irm
n hi
0 B OW
o o in
I T 001
S 3.
ZL
so -
" 4-1
IT 801
0 B (SI
18
OS 101
• 08
o r on
TIT*
8 0 001
I 0 TOl
I t 00
Z 8
a -
62!
a =
THE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
situated on the Latrobe River, Qippsland,
comprises 15,000 acres of very rieh land,
which can scarcely be surpassed for agri-
cultural, fattening and dairy purposes. The
land is specially adapted for the growth of
maize, hops, root crops and cereals, and is
practically ready for the plough. The
Nambrok sheep and cattle have been for
many years noted for the excellence and
high prices obtained. The rainfall is abun-
dant, averaging about 30 inches per annum,
and the climate salubrious, being free from
extreme heat and cold. An unlimited
supply of water can be obtained at a mode-
rate depth, under 30 feet, in any portion of
the Estate.
The Thompson River, which is close to
the northern boundary of the property, can
be easily and cheaply utilised for irrigation
purposes. The Rosedale Railway Station,
111 miles from Melbourne, is within 2J
miles of the property, and the railway line
runs directly through the property, and
the Heyfield station on the Maffra line is
about 6 miles distant.
THIS
MELTON PARK ESTATE
comprises 7146 acres, close to Bacchus
Marsh, in the Parish of Yancardook,
County of Bourke, and is well known in
Victoria for its great fertility and resi-
dential attractions. It is about a couple of
miles from the Melton Railway Station,
20 miles distant from Melbourne, where an
ever ready market exists for everything
the Estate produces.
Plans of both Estates will be forwarded
on application.
PRIZE 1, —Nambrok Estate —A superbly built mansion of 15 rooms with all necessary
domestic and outbuildings (cost £10,000), together with 2000 acres of magnificent agricultural
and grazing land, and adjoining the Heyfield and Kilmaney Park Estate—(see above Illustration
and Plan). Estimated value, bouse and land, £30,000.
PRIZE 2. —Molten Park Estate —An eight-roomed modern built house, with magnificent
stabling, containing II loose boxes, coach-house, &c., together with 700 acres of first-class land,
situated in the celebrated Bacchus Marsh District, 20 miles from Melbourne. Estimated value,
house and land, £12,000
PRIZE 3-A comfortable house of 9 rooms, together with 500 acres of superior land, mostly
rich river flats. Estimated value, £7OOO.
PRIZE 4. —Three hundred acres of superior agricultural land, adjoining Prize 3. Estimated
value, £3OOO.
PRIZE 5- —Two hundred acres of land similar to Prize 4. Estimated value, £2OOO.
PRIZE 6. —One hundred and fifty acres, similar to Prize 5. Estimated value, £l6OO.
PRIZES 7 to 119. —Each containing one hundred acres of rich agricultural land, ready for
the plough. Estimated value, £lO5O each.
PRIZES 120 to 128.- —Each containing over 50 and under 100 acres. Estimated value, from
£560 to £990, according to acreage.
PRIZES 129 to 248. —Each containing 50 aci’es. Estimated value, £550.
PRIZES 249 to 251. —Each containing over 30 acres and under 50 acres. Estimated value,
from £340 to £540, according to acreage.
PRIZES 252 to 351.- —Each one acre township allotment, valued at £24.
The Title Deeds are granted by the Crown, are in perfect order, as will be seen from the attached letter received from Messrs. Blake and Riggall.
C. M. OFFICER, Jun., Esq. William Street, Melbourne, September 30, 1893.
Dear Sir, — We have to inform you that the title deeds to the Namhrok Estate and the Melton Park Estate are in order and complete, and there is no obstacle to the immediate transfer of these Estates to a
Purchaser. — Yours truly, BLAKE <( RIGGALL.
Clear Titles will be transferred to successful Investors free of all cost, and all moneys will be held in trust until the Ballot has taken place. The following gentlemen have been invited by the Pro-
moters, and will be present at the Ballot :—P. P. LABERTOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major C. M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide: Captain J. WHITNEY,
Auckland, N.Z. The Ballot, which will take place on or about June 30, will be duly advertised, and results intimated immediately afterwards. Should the winner of any Prize so desire, tha
Promoters have arranged with the late owners to act as agents for the working leasing or sale of any of the Prizes for a period of three years without .any charge.
Australian Applications for Shares should pi T Jp ’RmVT'POT? 71 O/o JT* U. ASTROF*, Marlboroilgh dxaxnDerft.
b e made by Registered Letter to- x- ' J * UC vrxt/JU, O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
State amount forwarded and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply. Do not attach Stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is made by cheque.
Should the full complement of Subscribers not be obtained, the Trustees will arrange that Prizes will be allotted pro rata according to the amount subscribed and the values set out in the
schedule. Land to be treated at an average value per acre, and prizes to be arranged on this basis. Prize No. Ito be included in this allotment. N.B. —No Shareholder is liable to any further payment oh
allotted Shares.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Any Shareholder winning Property No, 1, who shall have applied for a Share or Shares prior to May 10, 1893, will, in addition
to Property No. 1, receive a Cash Bonus of £2OOO (to enable the winner to stock the said property). Any Shareholder winning Pro-
perty No. 2, who shall have applied for a Share or Shares prior to May 10, wll receive a Cash Bonus of £5OO. Any Shareholder
winning Property No. 3, who shall have applied for a Share or Shares prior to May 10, will receive a Cash Bonus of £l5O.
This Offer is made to Subscribers on strictly business lines, as the promoters recognise the mutual advantage of holding a
ballot on as early a date as possible. Doing so will effect a considered o saving in expenses, and the promoters, therefore, are
frilling to allow Shareholders to benefit by this.
Columbian Land Distribution.
1893.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
Name
£
Address
To E. J. ok Romford, c/o J. H. Astrop,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell-st., Sydney.
Please make remittance by Postal Note or P. 0.0. 11
by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed envelope
with stamp for reply. Do not attach stamp if other
than N.S-W. (Cost of stamp maybe added to P. 0.0.)
Register your letter


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD .
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c-
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne ; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin • Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane ; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
“ 'Tia in the Blood.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
We were in Mantou’s Hotel at LcVjaka—
Levaka in her palmy days. There were Robert-
son, of the barque Rotumali ; a fat German
planter from the Tasawa group; Hairy, the Cana-
dian, a trader from the Tokelaus—and myself.
Presently a knock came to the door, and Allan,
the boatswain of our brig, stood hat in hand before
us. He was a stalwart half-caste of Manhiki, and,
gerhaps, the greatest manaia (Lothario) from
onape to Fiji.
“Captain say to come aboard, please. He’s at
the consul’s for his papers and will meet you at
boat,” and Allan left.
“By shingo, dot’s a big fellow,” said planter
Kuhne.
“Ay,” said Robertson, the trading skipper,
“and a good man with his mauleys, too. He’s
the champion knocker-out in Samoa, and is a
match for any Englishman in Polynesia, let alone
foreigners’’—with a sour glance at the German.
“Well, good-bye all,” I said, “I’m sorry,
Kuhne, I can’t stay for another day for your
wedding, but our skipper isn’t to be got at any-
how.”
The trading captain and Harry walked with me
part of the way, and they commenced the usual
Fiji yup.
“Just fancy that fat-headed Dutchman going
all the way to Samoa and picking on a young girl
and sending her to the Sisters to get educated
properly ! As if any old beach-girl isn’t good
enough for a blessed Dutchman. Have you seen
her?”
“No,” I said, “Kuhne showed me her photo.
Pretty girl. ,Says she’s been three years with the
Sisters in Samoa and has got all tiie virtues of
her white father and none of the vices of her
Samoan mammy. Told me he’s spent over two
thousand dollars on her already.”
Robertson smiled grimly : “Ay, I don’t doubt
it. He’s been all round Levuka cracking her up.
I brought her here last week, and the Dutchman’s
been in a chronic state of silly ever since But
she’s an almighty fine girl. She’s staying with
the Sisters here till the marriage. By the Lord,
here she is now coming along the street ! Bet a
dollar she’s been round Vagadace way, where
there are some fast, flash Samoan women living.
’Tis in the blood, I tell you.”
The future possessor of the Kuhne body and
estate was a pretty girl. Only those who have
seen fair young Polynesian half-castes—before they
get married, and grow coarse, and drink beer, and
smoke like a factory chimney—know how pretty.
Our boat was at the wharf, and just as we stood
talking Allan sauntered up and asked me for a
dollar to get a bottle of gin. Just then the Ger-
man’s fiancee reached us. Robertson introduced
Harry and myself to her, and then said good-bye.
She stood there in the broiling Fijian sun with a
dainty sunshade over her face, looking so lovely
and cool in her spotless muslin dress, and withal
so inncoent, that I no longer wondered at the
Dutchman’s “chronic state of silly.”
Allan the Stalwart stood by waiting for his
dollar. The girl laughed joyously when Harry
the Canadian said he would be at the wedding and
have a high time, and held out her soft little hand
as he said adieu and strolled off for another drink.
The moment Harry had gone Allan was a new
man. Pulling off his straw hat he saluted her in
Samean, and then opened fire.
“ There are many teine lalelei (beautiful girls) in
the world, but there is none so beautiful as thou.
Only truth do I speak, for I have been to all
countries of the world. Ask him who is here—
our supercargo—if I lie. O, maid with the teeth
of pearl and face like Fctuao (the morning star),
my stomach is drying up with the fire of love.”
The sunshade came a little lower, and the fingers
played nervously with the ivory handle. I leant
against a cocoanut-tree and listened.
“Thy name is Vaega. See that! How do I
know ? Aha, how do I ? Because, for two years
or more, whenever I p issed by the stone-wall of
the Sisters’dwelling in Matafele, I climbed up and
watched thee, O Star of the Morning, and I heard
the other girls call thee Vaega. Oho! and some
night I meant to steal thee away.”
The rascal! He told mo two days afterwards
that the only time he ever climbed the Mission
wall was to steal mangoes.
The sunshade was tilted back, and displayed
two big, black eyes, luminous with admiring
wonder.
“ And so, thou hast left Samoa to come here to
be devoured by this fat hog of a Dutchman! Dost
thou not know, O foolish, lovely one, that she who
mates with a •Siamani (German) grows old .in
quite a little time, and thy face, which is now
smooth and fair-, will be coarse as the rind of a
half-ripe breadfruit, because of the bad food these
swine of Germans eat?”
“ Allan,” I called, “ Here’s the captain !”
There was a quick clasp of hands as the Stal-
wart One and the Maid hurriedly spoke again,
this time in a whisper, and then the white muslin
floated away out of sight.
The captain was what he called “ no so dry
viz., half-seas over and very jolly. He told Allan
he could have an hour to himself and buy what he
wanted, and then told me that the captain of a
steam collier had promised to give him a tug out at
daylight. “ I’m right for the wedding-feast after
all,” 1 thought.
# # #
But the wedding never came off. Kuhne,
in a frantic state, was tearing round Levuka
hunting for his love, who had disappeared. At
daylight, as the collier steamed ahead and taut-
ened our tow-line, we could see the parties of
searchers with torches scouring the beach. Our
native sailors said they had heard a scream about
ten at night and seen the sharks splashing, and the
white liars of Levuka shook their heads and looked
solemn as they told tales of monster sharks with
eight-foot jaws always cruising close in to the
shore at night.
* * •
Three days afterwards Allan came to me
with a stolid face and asked for a bottle of wine,
as Vaega was very sea-sick. I gave him the wine,
and threatened to tell the captain. He laughed,
and said ho would fight any man, captain or no
captain, who meddled with him. And, as a
matter of fact, he felt safe. The skipper valued
him too much to bully him over the mere stealing
of a woman. So the limp and sea-sick Vaega was
carried up out of the sweating foc’sle and given a
cabin berth, and Allan planked down two twenty-
dollar pieces for her passage to the Union Group.
When she got better she sang indelicate songs, and
laughed all day, and made fun of the holy Sisters.
And one day Allan beat her with a deal board
because she had sat down on a band-box in the trade-
room and ruined a hat belonging to a swell
official’s wife in Apia. And she liked him all the
better for it.
* * *
The fair Yaega was Mrs. Allan for just six
months, when his erratic fancy was captivated by
the daughter of Mauga, the chief of Tutuila, and
an elopement resulted to the mountains. The
subsequent an I inevitable parting made Samoa an
undesirable place of residence for Allan, who
shipped as boatsteercr in the Niger. As for
Vaega, she drifted back to Apia, and there, right
under the shadow of the Mission Church, she
flaunted her beauty. The last time I saw her was
in Charley the Russian’s saloon, when she showed
me a letter. It was from the bereaved Kuhne,
asking her to come back and marry him.
“ Are you going?” I said.
“ E pule le Atua” (If God so wills), “but he
only sent me twenty dollars, and that isn’t half
enough. However, there’s an American man-of-
war coining next week and these other girls will
see then. I’ll make them shell out. To fa, alii.”
MALIE.
One of our actresses says you cannot get
on; in London, without a rich uncle.-
Dear Bulletin, —An instance of the close
relationship between “loyalty” and stupidity.
Riding to Melbourne (by train) the other day I
heard an intelligent little boy ask his father as to
who lived in the “big house” (Government
House). Father answered that the Governor re-
sided'in that draughty establishment. “Who is
the Governor?” said the child. The question had
evidently been in his young mind for some time.
And his absurd parent explained that “ the Gover-
nor is one who looks after us all.” Now, fancy a
well-meaning man, perhaps a radical in himself,
turning his offspring loose among the rising gene-
ration with the news that the Governor is the one
who looks after us all—an earthly edition of
Jehovah ! The taint of such diseased fiction clings
to a boy long after he has learned that his parents
were idiots for telling him a horse was a “gee-
gee ’’ and sleep was “ bye-bye.”—J.
The story of an honest banker who was
dishonest. A few years ago, in a N.S.W. back
country town, lived a manager who had amongst
his customers a wealthy but illiterate squatter
who had his book made up only once a year—just
after he got the wool-returns. Tue banker badly
wanted .£lOO and “ borrowed ” it from the
squatter’s account. Things went smoothly, and
the borrower was able to repay just before the
time arrived for making up the book. The <£loo,
of course, was paid in as it was drawn—“over
the counter,” so to speak. When the squatter got
his hook he noticed the payment to his credit of
.£lOO, and enquired about same. The manager
knew nothing—paid over the counter, &e. The-
squatter mentioned the matter to an attorney who,
having no special regard for the manager, ferreted
the matter out, found the little secret, put
the police in motion and got the banker two
years " hard ; ” he was released, however, at the
end of a year. The squatter admitted that he
would not have recognised a paltry hundred drawn
from the account, while he would easily remember
that amount paid to his credit. “At any rate,”
said he to the banker, “ serves you well right
for not axing me for the loan. You might have
had it ten times over.” Alas ! they always tell
you that. It is the way of the world.
To The Deaf.—A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 11 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A Terpsichorean.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
She was swo t and twenty, and “ an excellent
musician.” He was managing Bimbi, a good man
among cattle, a ringing horseman, and a marriage-
able bachelor withal.
They met one evening at the home of a mutual
friend at Bidgeebel.
She was playing, and exquisitely, a soft, dreamy
nocturne of Chopin’s.
“ How the deuce can a man step to that bloom-
ing tune !’’ said he to his pal, young Bullock.
The remark was overheard. And yet she lived
to marry the heathen.
THE BREAKER.
At the first blush this affair of the Suther"
land Duchess is a slight to the aristocracy;
but remember she is only a parvenu, and they
would hardly dare to so treat a Marchioness of
Salisbury.
J. H. M‘Creery, a well-known station
manager, has died at Coonamble, N.S.W., from
blood-poisoning, caused by handling a dead sheep.
Mr. M‘Creery’s brother, and a former owner of
the station, both died from a similar cause at the
same place.
The British Ordnance Department lately
sent out gun-carriages to Albany, Westralia,
labelled thus: “To Mr. Blackburn, Albany,
Queensland,” and some of the ammunition “ To
the Agent-General, Western Australia, for King
George’s Sound.”
An old Mudgee (N.S, W.) identity has
passed away in “ Silly Mary.” She used to hump
her swag around the district, and was' always
armed with an old pair of shear’s, with which, it is
said, her sweetheart killed himself many years
ago. She died in the local hospital, whither she
was taken by the police.
Nothing is ever altogether lost. Twenty
years ago one John Gribble was drowned in thq
Shotover River (M.L.), and his body was not
recovered. The other day, when everybody had
forgotten him, Gribble’s bones turned up in the
bucket of a Chinaman’s gold-dredge, and the
poor, old bleachedsframework got decent burial at
last.
Dear Bulletin, —Can you stand another
“ warrigal ” suggestion administered gently? No
disputant denies that throughout N.S.W. and
Victoria “dingo” was the name of the wild dog.
Go to, then. Is it not somewhat strange that a
person of Mr. Meston’s information and intelli-
gence should tacitly assume a meagre and purely
colloquial language to have possessed a super-
fluous synonym? Now interdict the popular
generic Anglo-Saxon name of any animal—except
the National Ass and a few others —on the off-
chance of a perfect equivalent, and then find the
missing word ? By the way, in concocting or
revising blackfellows’ dialogue, please don’t write
“ whitefeller ” or “ whitepfeller.” The sound of
the/ — v, like the sibilant, is unknown in aboriginal
The blackfellow, unless civilised from childhood,
says “ whitepeller,” or, more accurately, “ white-
pweller.” Talking of blackfellows, can anyone
furnish the true history of the Faithful massacre ?
I have three records, each differing widely from
the others, and possibly from the truth. —Tom
Collins.


fds
Soap .Maker’s
BRITT
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales
On the Edge of a Plain.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
“ I’d bin away from home for eight years,” said
Mitchell, as he dropped his swag in the mulga
shade and sat down. “I hadn’t written a letter-
kept puttin’ it off, and a blunderin’ fool of a
feller that got down the day before me told the
old folks that he’d heard I was dead. ”
Here he took a pull at his water-bag.
“ When I got home they was all in mournin’
for me. It was night, and the girl that opened
the door screamed and fainted away like a shot.”
He lit his pipe.
“ Mother was upstairs howlin’and moaning in a
chair, with all the girls boo-hooin’ round her for
company. The old man was aittin’ in the back
kitchen cryin’ to himself.”
He put his hut down on the ground, dinted in
the crown, and poured some water into the hollow
for his cattle-pup^
“ The girls came rushin’ down. Mother was so
pumped out that she couldn’t get up. They
thought at first I was a ghost, and then they all
tried to get holt of me at once—nearly smothered
me. Look at that purp? You want to carry a
tank of water on a dry stretch when you’ve got a
purp as drinks as much as two men.”
He poured a drop more water into the top of his
hat.
“Well, mother screamed and nearly fainted
when she saw me. Such a picnic you never saw.
They kept it up all night. I thought the old cove
was gone off his chump. The old woman wouldn’t
let go me hand for three mortal hours. Have you
got the knife ? ”
He cut up some more tobacco.
“ All next day the house was full of neighbours,
and the first to come was an old sweetheart of
mine ; I never thought she cared for me till then.
Mother and the girls made me swear never to go
away any more ; and they kept watchin’ me, and
hardly let me go outside for fear I’d ”
“Get drunk?”
“No, for fear I’d clear. At last I swore on the
Bible that I’d never leave home while the old
folks was alive; and then mother seemed easier in
her mind.
He rolled the pup over and examined its feet.
“I expect I’ll have to carry him a bit—his feet is
very sore. Well, he’s done pretty well this
mormn’, and anyway he won’t drink so much
when he’s carried.”
“ You broke your promise about leaving home,”
said his mate.
Mitchell stood up, stretched himself, and looked
dolefully from swag to the wide, hot,
shadeless, cotton-bush plain ahead.
“Oh yes,” he yawned, “ I stopped at home for
a week, and then they began to growl because I
couldn’t get any work to do.”
The mate guffawed and Mitchell grinned. They
shouldered the swags, with the pup on top of
Mitchell’s, took up their billies and water-bags,
turned their unshaven faces to the wide, hazy
distance, and left the timber behind them.
HENRY LAWSON.
.
The Bulletins Missing Word Competi-
tion Coupon will be-found on page 35. Attention
is drawn to the date on which the competition
closes ompetition
Too Late.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Fraser’s claim was on the little patch of flat land
about half-way through the Matakeikei Gorge.
Although early afternoon, it was deserted, and
the two men who worked it were in the little sod
hut which was the only sign of human life in the
eighteen miles of mountain pass. One was lying
on his bunk, breathing hard and groaning with
pain every now and then. The other sat by the
fire, looking at his mate with the pathetic help-
lessness of a dog whose master is in trouble.
“Are you sure your ribs are broken, Cy.?” lie
asked.
“Broken ! Yes, three or four of them. Blast
that bank ! I told you it would come down some
day. ’ And the injured man drew the blanket
over his head and tried to turn on his side.
His mate rose quietly.
“Where are you going?” asked Cy., sharply.
Ihrough to the township for a doctor.”
“ Doctor !” said the other, scornfully. “ It’s
thirty miles there, and thirty back.”
“ B’s your only chance, old man. I’ll leave the
tucker and a billy of tea handy, and be back to-
morrow if it costs half the clean-up.”
Then, with the egotism which is at the root of
all our natures, he smiled to himself as he thought
what the “ clean-up ” meant—of the girl who was
waiting “ down country ” till he “ made his pile,”
and of the half-written letter, telling her of the
good luck of the last three months. That chamois-
leather bag planted in the straw of the bed meant
to him home, wife, friends—all that makes life
worth living. “So long, old man,” he said.
“So long. Ride like hell, or you’ll be too late,
I reckon.”
In a few minutes the clatter of hoofs up the
gorge told that his partner was riding hard for
help.
The sick man threw off the bed-clothes and
laughed.
He’s a good-hearted sort of lunatic,” he mut-
tered. “ it’s half a shame to go through him, but
seven hundred ounces are not to be picked up
every day. I’ll get good fifty miles start before
he s back. ”
He went out and saddled his horse, returned,
and rolled up his swag, with the little bag of gold
in the centre." Then a thought struck him. He
laughed, and, with a pencil-stump, wrote on the
wall: “You are too late,”
TAIWAI.
The other day, at a Bordertown (S.A.)
election meeting, feeling ran high on the Bible in
State-schools question. And, during the dispute,
one voice rose with sudden and excited emphasis,
saying: “If you utter another word like that
against Our Blessed Lord I’ll knock your (carmine)
head off. Later on the same gentleman was
heard indignantly to affirm that ho would not
vote for “an (incarnadine) atheist ” like Ash,
while the only thing which induced him to pro-
mise that (term of endearment among sailors)
Peake a vote was “because he believed in con-
serving the fundamental principles of our Holy
religion.”
Dear Bulletin, — Re the discovery of gold
on the Thames, IVlaoriland, by four penniless
prospectors (Clarkson, Hunt, Cobley, and White)
it took place in the latter half of ’6B, and that is
a long way short of 41 years ago. I was there at
Xmas of that year, and for two or three years
subsequently, so have a reasonable claim to know
something about it. By-the-bye, the third man’s
name wasn’t Oobley, but something very much
like it, but it has slipped my memory now. Hunt
was a young fellow of 19, and was supported
while prospecting by his sweetheart, Miss Knox,
who was a dressmaker in Auckland. After he
had struck the jugular, he asked Miss Knox to
visit his sisters. Miss Knox, a very respectable
girl and a Sunday-school teacher, for some reason
or other declined, and Hunt immediately threw
her over and married the daughter of an Auck-
land boarding-house keeper, who had his eye to
business, for he made Hunt settle <£lo,ooo on
Mary before he married her. Miss Knox brought
an action for breach of promise against Hunt and
recovered £ 1350 damages. When Hunt had his
first crushing he laid a wager of .£lOOO that he
would crush 10,000 ozs. in the first fortnight.
He crushed 12,000 ozs. and so won his bet.
The partners divided .£50,000 out of the
first crushing, and then Hunt sold out to
an Auckland syndicate for £149,000, thus making
.£Ol,OOO that he took out of the mine. Clarkson
and the third man (we’ll say Cobley for want of
a better name), married and settled and retained
their shares. White had only an eighth share,
having parted with half of his interest to a backer
in Auckland, before the gold was struck. White
got into some bother with a widow on the North
Shore, and had to pay her £BOO to square it.
Referring to the Caledonia, this claim worked a
continuation of the Golden Crown Lode and was
the richest on the field. The rage on the Thames
was for Cornishmen, both as miners and managers,
and the Caledonian was worked exclusively by
Cousin Jacks. Captain Rowe was the manager,
a very pious man and a Wesleyan local preacher,
but the Captain used to rig the market tremen-
dously. Twelve months of that sort of thing,
and Captain Rowe cleared out with £60,000 to the
good. The miners used to steal the specimens
wholesale. Of course, they were all stripped
and searched when they came up from tile
mine, but the way they managed it was
this. There were two shafts in the Cale-
donia one the ordinary working shaft,
and the other had an empty cage continually
going up and do\tm in it for ventilation purposes.
The miners used to put their little bags of speci-
mens on this cage, and, after being searched
and dressed, they would go and whip their bags
off the cage when it came up, and clear out
with the plunder. They all had villa residences
on the beach going towards Tararua, and many of
them kept horses and buggies. I knew a boy
who, watching his opportunity, snatched one of
these bags off the cage and made away with
it. He crushed 30oz. I recollect hearing a yarn
of one man who came to Capt. Rxiwe, hard up,
and asked for a job. The captain put him on at
once. Some six weeks afterwards the captain was
in an auction-room in Grahamstown, and saw this
very man bid £BOO for a public-house. The
captain tapped the man on the shoulder, and
quietly observed, “ I think you’ve done very well
out of us. Come up to-morrow morning and get
your cheque.” The scandal at last grew so great
that the directors interfered. They obtained an
order of the Supreme Court to overhaul the books
of the several banks, when they found that the
minors had all some hundreds of pounds to their
credit. There was a wholesale sacking-match in
consequence, and an entirely new lot of men put
on.— Trottkk Bethunk. Moonee Ponds, Vic.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Oolcmane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
The Grief Factory.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
The Grief Factory was bound to come,
and Melbourne has produced it. Samples of
selected grief can now be bought by the half-
brick, or by the half-hundred, according tb choice.
Before the writer is a coffin-shaped envelope,
deeply edged in front and diagonalled in the back
with the “properest” black. With it came a
leaflet, framed in sober'black lines, setting forth
in the gloomiest ink the retail price of woe-gushes
Is. 6d. per gush ; 6s. 6d. per half-dozen gushes :
and corresponding upward reductions until the
Niagara of 100 gushes can be shot for 575. Od. The
Omef Factory calls itself an Art Engraving Co.
its special novelty is announced to be album-
cards. Ihe leaflet shows what sort of card may
be ordered when an enemy dies in his sins.
Graveyard artists always blatter poetry the
wheezy snuffle of undigested funeral-prog. So
the Grief factory (No. 9 Fink's Building, No, 8
Elizabeth-street, Melbourne) gives 26 samples of
verse (and two prayers !) from which the lacerated
heart may choose. It is a wholesome privilege to
be able to buy assorted lamentations per meter
service—hot or cold, according to fancy.
* * *
The leaflet has its defeats, though. It
starts a soulful dirge with “Leaves have their
time to fall, but makes no provision for ever-
greens. The Factory might advantageously
widen its business lines, and sell slabs of breach-
of-promise verse and divorce anthems. Likewise
there is a conspicuous absence of provision for the
due metrical mourning of remains minced up on
the railway, in boiler-explosiops, or chewed by
sharks, or lots of things. The insurance-policy
pasan also seems a neglected line. No. 24 starts
its moaning thus :
We had a little treasure once,
She was our joy and pride ;
We loved her? ah ! perhaps, too well
For soon she slept and died.
And instantly suggests the boom-aftermath of real
woe :
We had a little treasure once,
We banked it, in our trust;
The Fat Man scooped it in as bunts,
And now that bank is bust.
Indeed, the Grief Factory may .-rip out on every
side into new tributaries of emotion, and berder
its hash-lots green, yellow, red, and rainbowed to
suit anything.
* * •
But the Grief Factory is not blind to all
side-issues. “Cards for returning thanks for
expressions of sympathy and condolence, Is. per
dozen, post free.” This is real enterprise. For
eighteenpenee the Factory enables ns to embalm
our bud in- heaven, or canonise the wife who
nagged us nightly during a weary pilgrimage, or
lie magnificently about our deceased she-cat
mother-in-law, or display our engraved love for
the partner whom We cold-shouldered into the
grave, or whoop ghoulishly over the hated rival
who slit his windpipe in the despair of fruition
or—order our own album-epitaphs,in advance’
and then die in the sure and certain hope of a
glorious resurrection of our idealised memories,
ihe Grief factory fills np ever so many long-felt
wants, and has a great future before it.
GI.


Hotel.
*» IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pltt-street to
€astl«reagli-gtre«t),
Between King <Sn Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
IN - THE VERT HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
]V[anag2it,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
0
#
PATENT
s
vs
PILL S
$
0:
*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveneas, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a
'
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable]
as a few doses cf them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. .They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills ha\* the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and - ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbecitam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
-KOMAR
v.o.
CROMTY
Whislgr.
Okerlees Brothers
pIK SCO A' IDNOON A (ID
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
TASMANIA. Messrs. FITZGERALD
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “ A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Business Announcements.
fds
✓
whisky
Best ©« Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing Si Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
Medical.
jb» S*
Vegetable
FOR
CURE
op, «M HABIT
Drunkenness
*» NEURASTHENIA.
PROVED
By living wltneßBjSß-ttfbe*the
Only Remedy which can b*
taken at Home with Success.
[The treatment STOPS the Desire for lilQUOr
'in from 6to hours.
HOME
or Self-Treatinent, sent to
address free from observation.
Pull particulars to
Colonial References in cur ,
BOOK,
g^TTheTYSON SANATORIUM
BOOTT CHAMBEES, 96 PITT-ST,
j©sTc3!*i.«»3r,
ROSES
m
A
%
EA
&
G
•===
m
LOTJ
8
THEONLYI
RELIABLE
rnms valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
fST" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
k
$
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTcV
; v
XV
Ni\
s «
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE EOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to'furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what «e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently chi ed in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persoas how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address oh receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
A
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s. to 15s. <id. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for th*
BOW MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease,
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Land A Building Co., Limited,
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
S3T As an illustration ;—For a Block, 5 acres, at
.£lO per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£ 1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
.£ll7s. 6d., £2 10s., £3155., £s—condition, 1-lOth
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the £5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMBY, on the Estate ; or
W ATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitfc-street, Sydney
Ouse
Sco
IE
Whisky
amesm
enzies
scow
DKI\K
“ADLD
SCOTTIE"
Whisky.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in thr
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
THE LANGrHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney,
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &e.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS ; 30s. per WEEK.
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &0., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous-
drugs.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lend.,
Seamen's Hospital
Ship “ Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
Ms
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr.
M. PERRY,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
Hi-f extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake t‘ie treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY ami PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this,
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly KELT, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION PEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
"THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Jt the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System-one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
■tarted eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
usd has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or lees endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after- the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as Was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the «ne completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of hationa
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushraan of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maori land
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official —that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightsst
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial cornmuni*
at ions to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Free Fresoriptloxiß
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T^TGTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
JL cannot he received LATER than 1 p.xn. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Lt;\
Dewar’s Wliisky.
30 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
0
Sydney Agents: ... ... CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, fc.l'.O.
Telephone 07%.
W. MAMM ATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND —
OTJTX-EirZ"
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Xloomß *
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
"VTOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST”OP SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EEUEST FAVEUC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOODA’
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■WynyardL Square, SYDKrBY.
[Established over a Quarter op a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
mr Terms—los. 6d. per Pay. 2,1t61 SidllGy ( late of Newcastle), ‘ * Prop. ’’
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
c.
o
o
o
4
<RAck aJocK>
G
o
o
o
-4
s*s
V
o
K. A. Hi-my, 144 < larcsice-st , Sydney.
rriALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.’
JL Price Is,, by post Is. 3d.
FTiHilB
M'Arthur’s York Hotel
(Late MILTHORPS’),
Corner ¥ork »V King streets, SIUSEY,
Splendid Accommodation. The best Brands o! Liquors
and Cigars.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON, 1/-
ROBT. M'ARTHUR, Proprietor.
Huntington MILL
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
•Seo., «Seo*» &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
sYaDaxTB-sr, axr.s.w.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
(LIMITED).
mm
mm
lirejikers.
Wfstlna:lM*iisc Engine*.
■
!i|, V®
»i9l«
m
•j.i
.
il ill °
3
s
!
TANGYES “COLON
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs, por square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PEIMIN G Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street i"'- 1om " 1 Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
SHOWROOMS
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
W ID
